US	50608542	R3PEK77CEWY63H	0312253427	494842264	Dark Dreams: Sexual Violence, Homicide And The Criminal Mind	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	morbidly captivating	This is the first true crime book I ever read and it effectively hooked me on the genre. This book will especially appeal to readers with short attention spans who easily grow bored with true crime novels that focus on one particular killer. <br />There are a ton of different cases in this book, each one more bizarre and engrossing than the last, so the authors don't go on and on at length about each and every case. From the woman who let her husband kidnap a girl to keep as a sex slave (for a reason that left me gaping) to the rapist who would force his victims to read aloud pre-written scripts he wrote at specified intervals (\\"Honey, do we have enough money to get the kids' teeth fixed this year?\\"), this book is frightening, bizarre, and utterly engrossing. Highly recommended.	2003-01-03
US	50608542	R4TGT1KUTTPGP	0451166876	805288852	Lust Killer, Updated Edition	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	engrossing, shocking	I have to agree with the reviewers who described LUST KILLER as one of Ann Rule's best. Rule's engrossing writing style accompanied with the sheer horror of this man's deeds makes for a guaranteed page-turner of a book. Some of the crimes Jerry Brudos committed were more disgusting than anything I've ever heard, so I'm surprised this is the first time I've ever heard his name.<br />As always, Rule treats the victims with the reverence they deserve. This book doesn't go into the same extreme detail about their lives as other of her novels do, but then this is a very short book. If you've never read Ann Rule before, I recommend starting here.	2003-01-03
US	50608542	RZ1FO1OGEXFWR	0671867636	338149803	The Riverman: Ted Bundy and I Hunt for the Green River Killer	Books	3	13	18	N	Y	good but 1 dimensional	First of all, I was expecting this book to be more revealing (re: Bundy's confessions) than what it was. Most of it was the author's conjecture of what happened based upon things that were clearly not confessions. For instance, when Bundy is shown a photograph of a dead woman the author claims that his pupils dilated, a vein started to throb, etc, like Bundy was all but salivating at the photo. Could have been true, but this does not a confession make.<br />My second problem with this book is its one-dimensionality. I can understand that in a way since the author is the same man who worked on the very frustrating Bundy case for 15 years and thought of Bundy as his personal nemesis. So yes I can understand his one-dimensional view of Bundy as a sicko, but for the true crime buff who wants to understand the why behind Bundy's depravity, well, let's just say you won't find it in this book. Unfortunately, you wont find it in any book I've read on him to date.<br />The book that comes the closest is Ann Rule's The Stranger Beside Me. (Contrary to what another reviewer stated she was friends with Bundy for years - not months - before his arrest.) Although she doesn't know &quot;why&quot; anymore than the next person, her portrayal of Bundy is of the whole man, rather than just the one-dimensional salivating psycho portrayed in this book. The Stranger Beside Me is very thought provoking on many levels.<br />I recommend The Riverman to anybody who wants to know how to interview a serial killer because those parts of the book were interesting and revealing, not only about Bundy but serial killers in general. If you can get past the irritating one-dimensionality (which annoys me in non-fiction titles as much as fiction titles), you will definitely learn something from reading this.	2002-12-26
US	50608542	R1ZZV95MPJA3HI	0393050297	652993826	The Stranger Beside Me: The Twentieth Anniversary Edition	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	the best book I've read on Bundy	This isn't a book to read if you're just looking for a lot of gory details about what Bundy did to his victims. There is very little discussion about his necrophilic activities, his obsession with dead bodies, etc. This is, however, the book to read if you want an accurate, well-rounded portrayal of Bundy as a person and as a killer.<br />Like another reviewer already stated, this book was fascinating on several levels. Just as interesting as the Bundy case is watching how Ann Rule herself changed over time. She went from steadfastly believing in her dear friend (as most people would if they were truly friends), to seesawing back and forth, to throwing up when she realized he was guilty after the Miami trial. Her account in this edition of what she felt like when he was executed (the original book was released prior to Bundy's execution) was thought provoking to say the least. She admittedly wouldn't have stopped his execution even if she could, but her grief over losing a man she cared about was also very evident and is just one instance of how multi-dimensional this book is.<br />Also as another reviewer pointed out, I appreciated getting to know the victims as more than statistics. For all the books that come out, not just about Bundy but about killers in general, the victims the authors claim to care so much about are brushed over and given about as much thought in death as their killers gave them in life. This is not the case with The Stranger Beside Me. This is a well-rounded, multi-dimensional book that you won't be able to put down.	2002-12-26
US	50608542	R31DH1R9V68O58	0373259336	579207362	Seducing Mr. Right	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Fun &amp; Sexy	Catherine Harris has been in love with Luke Van Buren since she was a teenager. Determined to snag the elusive bachelor once and for all, she concocts a plan aimed at getting the committment-phobic Luke to see her as a sexy, available woman. She tells Luke that she wants to get married, and as her friend, she'd like him to help her find Mr. Right.<br />Luke, meanwhile, doesn't think any man is worthy of Cat, himself included. Nevertheless, he agrees to help her despite the jealousy that plagues him. It doesn't take long, however, for Luke to realize that the only Mr. Right he wants in Cat's life is himself.<br />Cherry Adair's latest release is a sexy and delightful romp that satisfies from start to finish. I highly recommend picking up a copy of this one.<br />(sexual content = PG-13)	2001-06-17
US	50608542	R2IL6TXRKFWUJW	0821767909	547124831	His Rebel Bride: Brothers in Arms	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Excellent Medieval Romance	Shelley Bradley does a commendable job of portraying Kieran and Maeve's disparate viewpoints and why they both feel so strongly about their belief systems. Kieran is sworn to the English king in an age when a man's word is his very honor, while Maeve detests English tyranny because of the rape and plundering that has gone hand-in-hand with it. I've read other romances where the author employs the &quot;born to be enemies&quot; scenario, but this is the first one I've read where the author actually pulls it off without making the heroine come across as an exasperating shrew.<br />Ordinarily I prefer romances where the hero and heroine both realize their feelings for the other early on and spend the remainder of the book cementing those feelings in one form or another. Such a plot device, however, would feel too unrealistic in His Rebel Bride and Bradley is wise not to use it. Yes, the hero and heroine are mutually attracted to each other from the beginning, but their feelings of genuine attachment happen in baby steps throughout the novel and are borne of thoughtful gestures here and kind actions there. Because of that fact, Kieran and Maeve's romance is a convincing one.  <br />Aside from the well-scripted romance, what brings this novel into 5 star status for me is the complexity of the protagonists themselves. On the surface Kieran seems to be nothing more than a charming ladies man with a grin that kills, but underneath all of his bluster lies a loyal, steadfast man who has experienced much emotional neglect and abuse in his childhood and therefore doesn't really think he'll ever find somebody capable of loving him for himself.<br />On the surface Maeve is a woman who appears to be stoic and unemotional, but underneath the determined face she wears for everyone is a tenderhearted woman who has grown weary of the bloodshed that has been the direct result of England and Ireland's clash of wills. She is also a woman who is being torn apart, forced to choose betweenthe country and kin she has always known and loved and the husband she is growing increasingly adoring of. <br />His Rebel Bride is not perfect. There is a plot device used toward the end that seems a trifle too convenient, but it's not so outlandish as to distract from the novel as a whole. Viewed in its entirety, Shelley Bradley has taken a subject matter that is very difficult to convincingly work with and crafted it into a winning novel. Because of all the odds and obstacles the couple must face before finding their happily ever-after, Kieran and Maeve's love story is a powerful one and one that will stay with you long after you close the book.	2001-06-03
US	50608542	R1SCHAWKLXM25H	0380978547	969944777	Heart of a Warrior	Books	2	20	21	N	N	Very Disappointed	Having waited years for the third installment in Lindsey's futuristic series, I was disappointed with this novel from start to finish. The successor to \\"Warrior's Woman\\" and \\"Keeper of the Heart\\" does not live up to the expectations of its predecessors.<br />To put a fine point on it, when a sci-fi fan opens up the third installment of an eagerly anticipated futuristic series, they expect it to actually take place in another time or dimension, they do not expect that the first 198 pages (of a 368 page novel) will happen on earth! <br />Another mark against the novel is the heroine herself. Brittany is, in a word, annoying. When the reader is finally transported from earth after 198 pages, their diligence for sticking with the book is then punished by a heroine who refuses to believe that she's on a spaceship (and then the planet Sha-Ka'an) for the next 150 pages. Instead, Brittany believes that everything around her is a great conspiracy and that her captors are merely trying to mess with her mind. And this for literally 150 pages!<br />As if that isn't bad enough, the freethinking computer Martha has more lines than either of the protagonists do. Martha does have her good moments and there are places in the novel where she is truly funny, but overall she is given far too much to say with Dalden being allocated not nearly enough. <br />The reason why Martha has too much to say in the first place brings me to yet another gripe with Heart of a Warrior, namely that in this installment Lindsey suffers from what I call \\"explanation-itis\\", or the need to over-explain things. Yes, it is necessary to give the non-initiated some background info to catch them up to speed, but the amount of information they are given basically recounts everything that happens in the first two books which is boring for people who have already read them.<br />My final complaint with this novel, and the one that broke the camel's back for me if you will, is that absolutely nothing new happens inthis installment. In a futuristic, readers expect to be introduced to new worlds, new concepts, new plant and animal life, etc., but not one new experience is given to us in Heart of a Warrior. Everything we hear and see is rehashed from the first two novels which results in a predictability that is Boring with a capital B. <br />If you insist on buying it, I'd wait for it to come out in paperback!	2001-06-02
US	50608542	R2P9SG6ROKU4JH	0373291477	203736666	Knave Of Hearts	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Excellent Medieval Romance	Following &quot;By King's Decree&quot; and &quot;Lord of the Manor&quot;, Shari Anton's latest literary work tells us the story of the youngest Wilmont brother, Stephen. Having never read the predecessors to &quot;Knave of Hearts&quot;, I can safely say this book stands alone. And better yet, it's a medieval romance definitely worth reading. <br />Stephen of Wilmont and Marian de Lacy became lovers at the age of sixteen and carried on a brief affair. Stephen, unaware of the fact that he'd made Marian pregnant, sets off to find himself and explore the world after their time together comes to an end. Marian, meanwhile, leaves her father's home under his threat of banishment because she won't divulge the name of the noble that has impregnated her.<br />Six years and a lot of maturity later, Stephen meets Marian's cousin Carolyn and, not realizing them to be related, begins courting her because he believes the beautiful Carolyn will make him a sensible if not particularly endearing wife. When Stephen claps eyes on his first lover again, however, it isn't long before his thoughts begin straying toward and remaining on Marian.<br />At the same time, Marian begins to entertain doubts that she had made the correct decision six years ago by not telling Stephen about his twin daughters and giving him the opportunity to do the right thing by them. She wonders how long it will take before people begin to notice the resemblance between them and also wonders if she can bear to watch her own cousin marry the only man she has ever loved...<br />The plot is suspenseful, and the primary and secondary characters are intriguing...definitely worth reading.<br />(Sexual content = PG-13)	2001-05-28
US	50608542	R2XCUAJ7GM14V	1575668033	21470983	Tempting	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Excellent	Using a nineteenth century backdrop, Susan Johnson's latest erotic effort pairs an unhappily married princess with a wealthy American bachelor. Tempting is, without a doubt, one of her best works to date. <br />English-born Christina Grey, the beautiful Princess of Zeiss, was married off at seventeen to a German prince. At such a tender age she had thought her husband dashing and charming, unaware of what a monster -- not to mention adulterer -- he would turn out to be. Nevertheless, Christina learns to endure Hans over the years, taking solace in being a mother to their two sons. Unlike her philandering royal husband, she doesn't care very much for sex and therefore has no desire to take a lover. Until, that is, she meets Max. <br />English born and American bred Max Falconer, the new Marquis of Vale, is looking for a bit of fun at the country party he is attending. Never married and not particularly inclined to take himself off the bachelor market, he is shaken by the depth of his feelings concerning Christina. When Max had befriended the beautiful, lonely princess he hadn't anticipated falling in love with her. But now that he has he will stop at nothing to make her belong to him. <br />Susan Johnson fans are accustomed to her philandering-until-he-meets-the-heroine heroes. In her past few books they have also become accustomed to male protagonists that don't stray at all once they fall for the females in question. None of her fans, however, are accustomed to a hero like Max. This is a man so besotted with his heroine that he doesn't even think about straying, let alone actually do it. Max's love for Christina borders on the obsessive...a fact some readers might find unnerving but I found endearing. <br />Another strong attribute for Tempting lies in the friendship and mutual respect that the protagonists feel for each other. It is common in erotic literature to find a bonding of the flesh (else it wouldn't be erotic!), but not necessarily a bonding of the hearts. As the reader you have no doubts that Max and Christina are in love, and better yet, you've been given enough depth into their characters to understand why. <br />What brings this book into four heart range for me, however, is the well developed and at times quite suspenseful plot. Christina is not a free woman. Max wants to be with her forever. In order to come together and stay that way the heroine must go through some pretty heady stuff. I found that once I reached the last half of the book I simply couldn't put it down. <br />The only complaint I have with the novel as a whole is that during the book's first half the sex scenes began to drag a bit. If one is going to read back to back lovemaking escapades it helps the pacing tremendously if there is a tad bit more variety than what Tempting offers. Conversely, however, I didn't find this to be the case later on as Johnson delves into everything from light bondage to the we-could-be-caught-at-any-moment-so-let's-make-this-count scenario. <br />Overall, Tempting is a great erotic read. Don't miss this one!	2001-04-09
US	50608542	R3HBC8E96J3X7Q	0843948272	223546511	The Blue Viking	Books	5	34	34	N	N	Sexual Content: Rated R	The Blue Viking tells us the story of Rurik (from The Bewitched Viking) and is one of Sandra Hill's best releases to date. Although this book can be read without having read its predecessors, here's how the order goes for anyone interested: The Reluctant Viking (time travel), The Outlaw Viking (time travel), The Tarnished Lady (historical), The Bewitched Viking (historical), and The Blue Viking (historical).<br />Rurik the Vain has been scouring the countryside for a Scottish witch named Maire that he seduced and abandoned five years past. The witch wreaked her vengance well, for after Rurik took her virginity and left her she marked him with a permanent jagged blue line that runs down the center of his otherwise perfectly handsome face. Determined to remove the blue mark at all costs so that he can wed with a high born Viking woman he is betrothed to, Rurik sets off for Scotland to find the witch.<br />Maire Campbell has many problems, the most fundamental one being that Duncan MacNab is determined to lay claim to her lands now that all of her brothers are dead and her five-year-old son Jamie is too young to provide leadership to the clan. When Rurik releases her from a MacNab prison and agrees to help her people flush out the MacNabs, she is grateful to him, but isn't certain she can remove the blue mark in exchange for his services because of her other problem...Maire might be a witch, bit she's the most inept witch ever to practice the witchly arts.<br />Rurik might have come to the Highlands in order to have the blue mark removed, but once he sets his sights back on Maire the jagged line down the center of his face begins to wane in importance. Remembering his betrothal, he will try to resist the lure of falling in love with the world's worst witch, but he can hold out for only so long...<br />Sandra Hill just gets better and better with each successive novel. This is an incredibly entertaining book and definitely one for the keeper shelf. The Blue Viking is fast paced, humorous, and crackling with sensual sizzle. This is a definite must-buy!	2001-02-25
US	50608542	R1SG37W8HS80U5	1575667983	242465334	Seductive	Books	5	77	79	N	N	Ms. Devine Does It Again	Nobody pens an alpha male quite like Thea Devine. Dark, brooding, mysterious, always in control, forever a step ahead of everybody else...the type of man most women couldn't stomach involving themselves with in real life, but love to dabble with in the realm of fantasy. Devine's latest release is an alpha male fantasy extraordinaire. When Thea is hot, she's very very hot, and her latest book Seductive is burning. <br />At the age of seventeen, Elizabeth Massey became the bride of the older and impotent Earl of Shenstone. She endured a loveless marriage for seven agonizingly long years until he died one night of a heart attack while trying to get her with child. <br />During her marriage, Elizabeth hadn't been faithful to her husband. Instead, she entered into an affair with Peter Romanov, a Russian royal who dissolved their liaison when he was ordered to do so by his family. But now Elizabeth is an heiress in control of her dead husband's vast fortune and suddenly she has the chance to get reacquainted with her old flame. She thinks everything is finally beginning to go her way until a letter from a solicitor arrives informing her that her deceased husband's nephew has been located and all of the money she thought was hers will revert to Nicholas' control.  <br />Nicholas Massey dreams of only one thing: revenge. He swore to his mother on her deathbed that he would claim the title and lands, thereby avenging his father who had been disowned by the former earl. He had planned for every contingency before returning to England to make his mark, but he hadn't planned on the instant and primal attraction he possesses for Elizabeth, his dead uncle's widow. <br />Elizabeth fancies herself in love with Peter, but Nicholas doesn't let that knowledge dissuade him from seducing the countess into his bed. The only problem for the new earl is that once he has her where he wants her, he doesn't want to let her go...<br />There are many aspects of this novel that make Seductive amust-read, Devine's trademark scorching hot love scenes among them. How erotic is this erotic romance you might ask? On a scale of one to ten, I'd rate it an eleven.<br />Another attribute this book has going for it is a strong and well developed cast of characters. From the fallible yet lovable Elizabeth to the enigmatic and darkly sexy Nicholas (and all of the secondary characters in between), each one of them contributes to creating a page turner of a story.<br />If you're a Devine fan you don't want to miss this one, as Seductive is destined to be remembered as one of her most powerful novels to date. Though not as dark as her usual erotic offerings, the novel is gothic enough to please longtime followers and mainstream enough to tempt new devotees her way. <br />Get out your fans ladies: the Queen of Erotic Romance is once again holding court.	2001-02-20
US	50608542	R1ZN02QWZ7HSDY	0380816180	613674190	A Wanted Woman	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Sexual Content: Rated PG-13	Set in Texas following the Civil War, Rebecca Wade's latest tells us the story of a quirky wanna-be actress and a vigilante lawman destined to tame her. If you enjoy smiling and love a poignant romance, A Wanted Woman is the book for you.<br />Wren Bradley has been in love with Cord Caldwell since she was a little girl. At the age of sixteen after sharing a few dances and conversations with the legendary tracker, she finally gets up the nerve to profess her feelings to him, naively believing that he returns them. Cord, however, is nine years her senior and much to Wren's chagrin and embarrassment, he doesn't see her in a romantic light at all. Moritifed, she vows never again to do something so foolish as to give away her heart and determines never to set eyes on Cord Caldwell again.<br />Flash forward five years: Wren's family is pressuring her into marrying Edward, a sweet man she's known since childhood, but one that she unfortunately harbors no romantic feelings toward. Wren is dead set on becoming an actress instead, a profession that thoroughly scandalizes her upperclass parents. One night after sneaking out to watch a play at the local theater, Wren accidentally lands smack dab in the middle of a showdown between an infamous train robber and a lawman who is none other than one Cord Caldwell.<br />Cord can't believe that this is the same little girl whose heart he hated shattering five years past. She has changed unbelievably, having transformed from a gawky little girl into a beautiful woman. He knows that Wren is off limits to him for her father happens to be Cord's boss, but when he's given the assignment of watching over the Bradley's youngest girl he can only hold back his feelings for so long. The problem is, will Wren be able to fall inlove with him again after the way he hurt her when she was a young girl?<br />As my three-year-old daughter would say, &quot;well DUH&quot;! Cord is strong, sexy, masculine, and amusing...what woman wouldn't be able to fall for him twice? I appreciate the way Wade handles the situation, not making it so the heroine holds a grudge against the hero until the bitter end, most especially considering the fact that we're talking about an incident that happened when Wren was only sixteen.<br />Aside from the well developed chemistry between the lead characters, what I enjoyed most about this romantic romp is the heroine herself. She is spunky, funny, quirky, and undeniably lovable. You have no doubts that a man like Cord has fallen fast and furiously for her because as a reader you've pretty much fallen for her yourself. Since many romance authors pen heroines to be little more than thoughtless wallpaper contrasted against larger than life heroes, I am definitely a sucker for any novel with a spunky female lead.<br />Overall, I'd say this is a solid romance and a fun read well worth the few dollars and few hours investment. I'll definitely be waiting to see what Wade comes up with next.<br />- see profile for sexual content breakdown	2001-02-11
US	50608542	R3REDJI2H5VEAD	037329140X	425482854	Maid Of Midnight (Harlequin Historical series, No. 540)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A Very Romantic Tale	Maid of Midnight, the Sequel to Lord of Lyonsbridge and Lady of Lyonsbridge, offers great romantic escapism and an action packed plot. Set in Normandy immediately following the Crusades, Ana Seymour's latest is a satisfying romantic read.<br />The English knight Sir Ranulf Brand is on a mission to locate his missing brother Edmund who mysteriously vanished three years past. The clues his younger sibling left behind are few and far between, but the one thing he knows for certain is that Edmund had been intent upon journeying to St. Gabriel's monastery in Normandy. Why Edmund has gone there in the first place, he doesn't know.<br />Ranulf sets off for St. Gabriel in order to question the monks dwelling there about his brother's disappearance, but gets more than he bargained for in the process when he meets Bridget, a beautiful and mysterious woman with an equally mysterious past.<br />Bridget has lived within St. Gabriel all of her life. Never once, in fact, has she stepped outside of the monastery's cloistered walls. Bridget has no last name nor any family save the monks that raised her, for the events surrounding her birth have been kept secret these twenty-two years. Once Bridget meets the handsome Ranulf her secluded world doesn't seem quite so appealing anymore and she finds herself not only wanting answers to her past but a life outside of the monastery as well...<br />The latest installment to Ana Seymour's Lyonsbridge series is a strong one. It isn't necessary to have read the first two books in this line in order to enjoy this one. In fact, the protagonists from books one and two are only mentioned in passing, so it's probably more apropos to refer to Seymour's books as connected rather than as a series in the way we normally think of them. <br />Whatever you want to call it, connected or a series, Maid of Midnight is a fun, romantic read. The next time you're in the mood for a sweet romance with just enough action to keep your attention, I'd pick up a copy of this one.<br />sexual content = PG-13	2001-02-02
US	50608542	RAWGKT2HJT5QM	0505524058	428444944	Meredith's Wish (Heartspell)	Books	4	23	23	N	N	Great Entertainment	I really liked this book. Great comedy, excellent amore, an independent, feisty heroine, and a hunky djinn hero with something to prove. Meredith's Wish provides great escapist entertainment.<br />Meredith Montgomery is a businesswoman with a problem: she needs a pretend husband and she needs one quick. In a heated competition for a key promotion, the vice-presidency of the company will go to whichever of the two rivals acquires a previously specified client first. The trouble for Meredith is that the potential client she was given to lure into the company fold is none other than Duchess Hertzenstein, a woman that has a reputation for doing business with only women who are married. <br />So what's an unmarried woman to do? Meredith decides she needs to find a man to pass off as her &quot;husband&quot; to the duchess, but has zero luck in the effort once she sets out to do so. <br />Enter into the picture &quot;Jim&quot;, a sexy comedian of a genie who is determined to grant Meredith's wishes for her. At first &quot;Jim&quot; the djinn tries to pair Meredith off with men that might foot the bill, but eventually he begins to develop feelings for the mortal in his life. Unfortunately, falling in love with a mortal isn't allowed and the protagonists will be faced with some tough decisions to make. Will they be able to tempt fate and stay together?<br />Okay, okay...that question was a no-brainer. If the answer was no, this wouldn't be a very solid romance and the rating listed above would be a 1 instead of a 4. But whether or not the main angst of the novel is a given, the fact remains that this is a very cute book. Karen Lee has a knack for creating humorous character dialogue that brings quite a few smiles to the face. I even giggled a time or two...to me there is no greater compliment than that. I'll definitely be looking for Lee's next book.<br />Sexual Content: PG-13 (see profile for break-down)	2001-01-06
US	50608542	R1HJ2CGM52O93Z	0451407598	398990502	A Slip in Time	Books	5	66	68	N	N	Sexual Content: Rated R	This review is coming about 2 years too late, but I enjoyed the book so much that I had to comment on it anyway! If you love time travels, and if you love romances set in medieval Scotland, then this book is a must have, a definite keeper.<br />19th century Scotland: The castle Dunraven has been closed to visitors for over 20 years and Julia Hargrove is about to find out why. One of the last of her group to arrive for a summer party, she finds herself ensconced inside of the tower chamber due to a lack of bedrooms. The tower chamber turns out to be as creepy as it looks, for strange things begin to happen almost as soon as she arrives...<br />15th century Scotland: Rae MacKinnon was recently released from London Tower where he had been imprisoned for almost 2 decades. He came home only to find his father dying and himself the third laird of Dunraven. Strange things begin happening thereafter, when a beautiful woman claiming to be from the future begins making appearances in his bedchamber...<br />This author is an absolute master at invoking emotions. If she wants you to feel freaked out, she knows how to use a lightening storm and a few choice words to do it. If she wants to bring a tear to your eye, she knows how to set a scene up and deliver an unforgettable line. If she wants you to feel sexual tension...well, she does that very well too [grin]. <br />Another thing Kirkwood knows how to manipulate to its best advantage is the setting. Looking back, I know the book was loaded with history, yet she wove it so effortlessly into the story line that I never once felt hit over the head by it. Some historical romances read like history texts because the author doesn't know how to deliver it. Not Kirkwood. You won't find yourself skimming paragraphs while she gives you a page long recitation of how a room looked at the time. <br />And then, of course, there is the romance aspect of the novel. I don't think I can put into words how well done it is. I could feel Julia andRae's desperation to stay together, feel their fears that the slips would stop and they'd no longer be granted time together. This book grabbed my attention from chapter 1 and never let it go. Definitely buy this one!	2000-12-05
US	50608542	R3GO2ADCI6Z8X6	0515129518	291358908	A Rogue's Pleasure	Books	5	29	32	N	N	Sexual Content: Rated R	First time author Hope Tarr has penned a sensational debut novel packed full of humor, wit, intrigue, and sexual tension galore. Set in Regency England, A Rogue's Pleasure is hard to set down once you pick it up.  Chelsea Bellamy's younger brother Robert has been kidnapped and is being held for ransom at the sum of five hundred pounds. Orphaned over a year ago, Chelsea has no one to turn to and must therefore come up with a way to raise the needed funds herself. When all of her avenues for acquiring money are exhausted and desperation finally kicks in, she turns to her trusted servant Jack - a retired highwayman - to teach her his former trade. All is going according to plan until Chelsea and Jack decide to hold up a carriage that contains none other than the handsome and notorious rake Viscount Montrose and his fiancée Olivia. <br />Anthony Grenville, Viscount Montrose, can scarcely believe what's happening to him. Not only is he suffering the embarrassment of being robbed in front of his fiancée, but the perpetrators in question consist of a slight girl and a one-eyed elderly man with scrunched shoulders and a noticeably dragging leg. Still, he can't help but to be amused...and intrigued. He has no choice but to let the girl and her elderly companion go on their way for now, but oddly enough, he hopes to see her again. So when he catches the girl relieving his townhouse of its silver a few days later and forces her to confess all, he can do no less than to help Chelsea get her brother back. Besides, it's the perfect way to keep Chelsea close to him, which is precisely where he most wants her. <br />A Rogue's Pleasure contains an intriguing plot and superb protagonists, but its the budding relationship and sexual tension between the lead characters that will hold you spellbound. With Anthony engaged to another woman and determined to make Chelsea no more than his mistress, and Chelsea firmly committed to being his wife or nothing at all, readers can't help but towant to find out just how the situation will resolve itself into romantic bliss. <br />As an aside to that dilemma, it is refreshing to read about a strong heroine that doesn't waste her time mooning over the hero; Anthony is the one that does all of the mooning in this book. How many times have romance fans been made to endure weak-willed, codependent heroines who make you want to jump into the book's pages and shake some sense into them? I'm happy to report that with A Rogue's Pleasure, you get all of the sexual tension without an ounce of caricatured female sappiness. <br />Hope Tarr's first novel is an overall winner. Fast-paced, intriguing, and loaded with sexual tension, A Rogue's Pleasure is a real page turner. With one book, this author has already gone onto my &quot;must buy&quot; list. <br />-full review originally published in The Romance Reader	2000-11-02
US	50608542	R3L5YD3K6FGVMH	0373291345	230688048	Reluctant Tutor (Historical)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Sexual Content: PG-13	The only thing I don't like about this book is its deceptively bland cover, but the author can hardly be held accountable for that. A glance at the cover art, which consists of a windmill, a prairie, and grazing horses, brings to mind images of the Midwest...boring images of the Midwest at that. Not so. The Reluctant Tutor is a fun romance taking place amongst the hustle and bustle of New York City in 1899. <br />Kate Delaney has long dreamed of becoming an architect, but she's been met with rejection and ridicule at every turn because of her gender. Finally, however, Kate's dream comes true as she is granted an apprenticeship in New York City. She makes a deal with her grandfather so he'll allow her to go, promising that if she cannot become financially independent within a year's time, she will return home and marry a man of his choosing.  <br />Confident in her plan and in her skills, Kate sets off for New York City only to discover that the man who had agreed to instruct her has died. Worse yet, the man's son (who has taken over the business) is openly hostile toward her and has no desire whatsoever to uphold the agreement she made with his now deceased father. Kate eventually gets him to relent by striking a bargain with him: if she chooses to leave before the year is up, he will not have to refund her money, but if she chooses to stay, it is his duty to instruct her. <br />Gabe Murray is confident he can make Kate quit before the year is out, so he makes a wager at the local bar with his chief rival Lloyd Peyton, the man who stole his fiancee out from under him a year ago and the same man who's architectural firm is his primary competition for winning the chance to design the new public library downtown. If Kate leaves, Lloyd is not allowed to submit his plans to the city. If she stays, Gabe is not allowed to do so.<br />Gabe accepts the challenge from Lloyd, refusing to listen to his conscience in the doing. But problems soon arise and his guilt soon takes hold, for Gabe genuinely likes Kate. More disastrous for his wager yet, he's beginning to fall in love with her. When push comes to shove, Gabe will be forced to choose between gaining the hand of the woman he loves or seeking revenge against his sworn enemy.<br />One of the things I really liked about this book is the fact that the hero's conscience comes into play very early on. The reader isn't forced to endure all manner of mean, cruel acts toward the heroine before the hero finally relents and treats her decently. What you get instead is a romantic tale about two people at odds coming together, learning to like and respect one another, and eventually falling in love.<br />- full review originally published in The Romance Reader. Sexual content PG-13 = consummation scenes are described in a fair amount of detail.	2000-10-25
US	50608542	R1V7958MXFYLRY	1892520184	150487850	The Renegade's Woman	Books	5	17	22	N	N	Sexual Content: Rated R, Genre: Historical	A woman travelling with a wagon train out West is bathing in a stream when her bath is interrupted by an approaching Indian warrior. She thinks him handsome, but is terrified by the stories she's heard of what becomes of white women at the hands of &quot;savages&quot;, so she flees from him. He catches her. Use your imagination from there  :)<br />I was very surprised by the fact that for only containing 54 pages, this story actually turns out to have a decent plot as well as a solid romance. &quot;The Renegade's Woman&quot; is fast paced, intriguing and very, very hot. Don't miss this one! It's the best 6 bucks you'll ever spend.	2000-10-25
US	50608542	R1I1DC0YS4ZMXX	0373806965	601203790	The Devil To Pay	Books	5	38	40	N	N	Sexual Content: Rated PG-13	This is my favorite JAK book under the name James. It left me either grinning or laughing the entire way through it.<br />Emelina Stratton's brother is being blackmailed. In an effort to save him, she turns the tables and does a little spying to try and get some bargaining info on the blackmailer. The darkly handsome Julian Colter (who is a rumored mob boss) agrees to help Emelina in her scheme, but will demand a payment from her when all is said and done. Emelina is nervous about what the payment will be, having no idea Julian intends for the payment to be herself...<br />This book left me in stitches. From Emelina faking an orgasm--and getting caught!--to Emelina's overactive imagination concerning Julian's &quot;occupation&quot;, I couldn't stop grinning. Don't miss this one while it's still in print.<br />(sexual content R = consummation scenes described in lots of detail)	2000-10-23
US	50608542	RJ10H7D37LY84	0380809176	870536543	Meet Me at Midnight (With This Ring, Book 2)	Books	4	50	54	N	N	Sexual Content: PG-13	A sexy hero, a feisty heroine, a murder mystery, and a passionate romance...put them all together and you get &quot;Meet Me At Midnight&quot;, a Regency-era historical you don't want to miss.<br />Twenty-year-old Victoria Fontaine is forever getting herself into trouble. As a consequence, her friends have nicknamed her the Vixen, a name she has no problem living up to. When Victoria is caught in a compromising embrace with Sinclair Grafton, the Marquis of Althorpe, her father forces her to marry him against her wishes, more than happy to pass his troublesome daughter off to another man, even a man like &quot;Lord Sin&quot; who has a reputation for debauchery.<br />A year shy of inheriting the funds her grandmother left her, Victoria is furious that her plans for independence have been thwarted over one little kiss. Her anger soon turns to friendship and passion, for Victoria can't help but to be intrigued by her husband. What's more, she's beginning to suspect that there's more to Sinclair than what meets the eye. She soon realizes that her husband isn't the wastrel lord he presents himself to society as, but what she doesn't yet understand is why he's hiding behind such a facade to begin with.<br />Sinclair Grafton returned to England to see his elder brother's killer brought to justice. An English spy during the war against France, he fears that his brother was killed because he knew of his activities. Sinclair used the charade of a carefree, mindless rake to mask his true motives to Napoleon's men in France and continues on with said charade in England so as not to appear suspicious to his brother's killer.<br />Sinclair had planned for every eventuality, but he hadn't prepared for Victoria Fontaine. When a passionate kiss forces him to do the right thing by the woman he compromised, Sinclair marries her, but fears for her safety...especially since his wife is quite astute and is beginning to fit the puzzle pieces of who he really is together with astonishing speed. Somehow he must catch the killer before any harm befalls his wife...a wife who makes him feel feelings he's never known before and whom he continually falls more in love with each day.<br />Be warned: this is a Regency-era romance of the wallpaper variety. In other words, it doesn't contain tons and tons of rich historical detail...just enough language and references to make the setting realistic. I had no problems with this because I'm an avowed historical junkie of the wallpaper variety. To be blunt, tons and tons of rich historical detail bore me to tears. My point? If you're a wallpaper addict like me, this is the book to give you a happy fix. If wallpaper turns you off, however, &quot;Meet Me At Midnight&quot; might not be the historical romance for you.<br />This book became a keeper for me because of the protagonists and their burgeoning passion for each other. Enoch developed Victoria and Sinclair's personalities and motivations very convincingly, to the point where you feel as though you know them well enough to be friends by the time you finish the book. <br />As difficult as it might be for an historical buff to fathom, &quot;Meet Me At Midnight&quot; doesn't contain any misunderstandings or miscommunications between the hero and heroine whatsoever. If Victoria worries about something, she confronts Sinclair with her grievance rather than developing a stiff upper lip and keeping the misunderstanding to herself until the truth somehow comes to light of its own volition near the book's ending. Almost sounds too good to be true, I know.<br />-full review originally published in The Romance Reader<br />-sexual content PG-13 = descriptive sex, but nothing kinky or wildly graphic	2000-10-22
US	50608542	R30Q1XAEEZSQGT	0373806957	562735311	Nightwalker (Silhouette Promo)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Sexual Content: Rated PG-13	Heiress Cassie Bond is determined to get Justin Drake away from her sister. Cassie's ex-husband married her for her fortune and she won't let the same fate befall her sister. Cassie is delighted when her blackmail scheme works out and Justin removes himself from Alison's life without a fight. But now Cassie has a new problem, namely that Justin has reset his sights on her...<br />Overall, I enjoyed this book. It's more typical of JAK than most of her early books under the James pen name in that it has her trademark themes...dangerous man, adventurous woman, witty dialogue and narrative. <br />The only aspect of it that might make some readers weary (it did me in parts) is that this book was originally published in 1984, therefore the sex scenes are very reminiscent of the &quot;forced seductions&quot; common to 80's romances. Otherwise, &quot;Nightwalker&quot; is pretty much typical JAK.<br />(PG-13 = description of sex scenes, but nothing wildly graphic)	2000-10-20
US	50608542	R1ZBSZABXR0BGB	0373806914	476696795	To Tame the Hunter (Silhouette Collector's Edition)	Books	4	24	26	N	N	Sexual Content: PG-13	Selena Caldwell knows that York Sutherland wants her because his chief business rival has her. York wants revenge and Selena is his ticket to getting it. She determines not to succumb to York, but she can only resist him for so long...<br />Overall, I really enjoyed this book. The only complaint I have with it is the same complaint I have with most of JAK's early books...she uses too many exclaimers and the love scenes are too purple. Even though there are 3 or 4 consummation scenes, I still rated the book PG-13 because the descriptions are fairly flowery. Here's a passage from the first consummation scene to demonstrate what I mean:<br />&quot;Tell me you want me, Selena darling,&quot; he ordered roughly as she writhed beneath him. &quot;Tell me you need me tonight as much as I need you!&quot;<br />She moved her legs lightly along his, glorying in the feel of him, and her arms curved lightly around his neck. &quot;I want you, York. You must know that by now!&quot; Did the canvas have to beg for the artist's touch?<br />&quot;Sweetheart!&quot;<br />Okay...get the picture? If you can quit laughing long enough to get through that scene, you'll find that the remaining consummation scenes aren't quite so purple. All of them are varying shades of it, but none of them are the pulsing, neon flashing violet of that first scene.<br />All in all, this is a great book and their relationship is pretty hot for the most part. I wouldn't let the canvas analogies deter you from buying it.	2000-10-19
US	50608542	R3T55OALA98L7E	0425176940	780656814	If I Had You (de Piaget Family)	Books	3	56	62	N	N	Sexual Content: Rated G	The upside to &quot;If I Had You&quot; is that the latest installment of the de Piaget saga is a relatively strong one. The downside is that its strength doesn't come into play until the last 180 pages of the novel. The first 250 pages of the book are redundant and exasperating, with misunderstandings and miscommunications being used far too often (and over silly things) to keep Anne and Robin apart. <br />There are several positive aspects to &quot;If I Had You&quot;. Speculation that arose in &quot;Another Chance to Dream&quot; concerning Robin's heritage is laid to rest, making this novel worth reading for that aspect of it alone. The love relationship between the protagonists is heart-warming and endearing, and the story line contains Kurland's usual witticisms and humorous dialogue. The negative aspect of the book, and the reason I can't give it more than a 3, is that all of the aforementioned positive aspects occur in the last 180 pages. <br />&quot;If I Had You&quot; is an entertaining read, but there is no question that Kurland is capable of better.<br />(sexual content G = love scenes, but no description of consummations)	2000-10-16
US	50608542	RLL2OWNHYNIP1	0821766929	943742057	When Darkness Falls	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Sexual Content: Rated PG-13, Violence Content: Rated R	Overall, the sequel to &quot;Beneath a Blood Red Moon&quot; is a powerful one. There are a couple of complaints I have with it, the most notable one being that Drake/Graham concentrated more on the suspense/thriller angle of the book than on the romance. <br />You finish &quot;When Darkness Falls&quot; feeling as though the protagonists are only a small step up from being virtual strangers to each other. Very little of the novel, perhaps as little as 50 pages, contains interactions between Jade and Lucien. Most of it concentrates on the gruesome crimes being committed by the vampires Lucien is determined to stop. <br />From a suspense/thriller perspective, this book is 5 stars. From a romantic perspective, it is 4 stars. Since there is to be another sequel next year, and since there are quite a few loose ends between Jade and Lucien, I can only assume that we will find out more of what becomes of them in October 2001. <br />Plot Summary: During a trip to Scotland, Jade MacGregor and 3 others survived a bloodbath in a cemetary. The cops tried to convince her that the assailants were occultists bent on drinking blood and killing as an initiation rite, but she witnessed the &quot;occultists&quot; superhuman strength with her own eyes. She knows what she saw was real vampires in action.<br />A year later back home in New Orleans, Jade receives news that one of the other survivors from the graveyard mass murder in Scotland was found murdered in New York, having died in much the same way that the others did that horrid night a year past. A pattern soon emerges as more dead bodies pop up, and Jade realizes that the vampires mean to find and kill all of the remaining survivors, herself included.<br />Jade turns to Lucien for help, since he is the man responsible for having saved her life in Scotland. But the more time she spends with him, the more she begins to wonder if Lucien is a vampire too...<br />Drake/Graham has proven with &quot;When Darkness Falls&quot; that she can write a thriller with the best of them. I would recommend this book not only to romance fans, but to fans of suspense and horror novels as well. <br />(Sexual Content PG-13 = description of consummation scenes, but nothing graphic)	2000-10-16
US	50608542	R38KPGTSL4J32E	0380799383	424827136	Seventh Heaven	Books	4	52	66	N	N	Sexual Content: PG-13	Marilee Nelson is haunted by a terrible secret (and yes, it is a very bad one). It's a secret she will share with no one, including her fiance Joe Lakota. Rather than confide in him, Marilee breaks their engagement and convinces Joe that she has left him for someone else. Heartbroken, Joe leaves for the big city and embarks on a high profile professional football career. Seventh Heaven begins ten years later...<br />Having recently been granted custody of his 4-year-old son Zachary, 31-year-old Joe Lakota moves back to his hometown in Oregon to raise him. After ten years, he is still and will always be in love with Marilee Nelson. All of their lives--clear up until she broke off their engagement ten years past--the couple had been best friends, inseparable from the time she was five and he was eight. It doesn't take Joe long to figure out that his boyhood sweetheart had lied about leaving him for another man, nor does it take him long to figure out her secret, or at least, a fundamental part of it. The problem for Joe now is figuring out how to get through to Marilee and pick up where they left off ten years ago.<br />Marilee never stopped loving Joe, but she doesn't feel any more able to confide in him at age 28 than she had at age 18. There were valid reasons why Marilee kept her secret and as far as she can tell, those reasons haven't changed. But Joe won't give up on her or the love they have shared all of these years. When Joe's ex-wife (who was abusive to their son) petitions to regain custody, Joe asks Marilee to help him in the courts by marrying him. Marilee realizes she has been handed a second chance at happiness with Joe, but will she find the courage to take it?<br />The irony of Seventh Heaven is that for the first half of the novel Marilee comes across as a cliche &quot;wilting flower&quot; heroine...not a personal favorite of mine. Marilee's reaction to her secret feels out of proportion to the secret itself, not in terms of the intensity of her reaction, but in terms of the duration (ten years) of it. But then in the second half, the reader learns alongside the hero that even if we might have thought we knew the extent of Marilee's secret, we didn't really have a clue as to how gruesome and appalling it truly is. At this point in the book, Marilee seems more like a warrior than a wilting flower. She only gets better and better as she allows herself to get in touch with her anger and emotions for the first time in ten years. <br />There are a couple of spots in the novel's first half where the pace of the book slows down a bit, though not so much as to bore you. The last half of Seventh Heaven is extremely fast-paced and more than compensates for any lagging moments experienced in the first half. As the reader learns more and more of Marilee's secret, and then again when a murder and an indictment come into play, it becomes next to impossible to put this book down. <br />-full review originally published in The Romance Reader<br />-see profile for breakdown of sexual content ratings	2000-10-09
US	50608542	R2E3KCWUK5ZG03	0373806930	647713182	Fabulous Beast (Silhouette Promo)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Sexual Content: Rated PG-13	Shy and quiet Tabitha Graham decides to take a cruise to live a little bit. Within a few hours of boarding, she realizes--much to her dismay--that even at sea she'll never be the life of the party. When Tabitha meets Dev Colter, she believes she has found a kindred spirit. Dev is sweet, shy, and vulnerable...or so she thinks. Dev will let her believe anything she wants, so long as he can lure Tabitha to him...<br />This book is classic JAK (a.k.a. James)...humorous, witty, and sexy. The only complaint I have with it is that she uses too many exclaimers and the love scenes are a little purple. I wouldn't let that deter you from buying it, however. It was still an engrossing story and because it's only 219 pages, it can be devoured in a couple of hours time.	2000-10-04
US	50608542	R3H9FJPDWTTKY8	0373291302	329050437	Trouble In Paradise (Historical)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Rated: PG	An author capable of making a Nebraska prairie town in 1892 seem like a fun place to live is an author worth reading. Liz Ireland's latest Harlequin Historical is an adorably funny romance guaranteed to bring a smile to your face.<br />Ellie Fitzsimmons thought she was in love with her employer's son, so against her better judgment, she allowed herself to be seduced by him. When she discovered she was pregnant, not only did the father of her baby refuse to acknowledge the child as his, but she also found herself out of a job. Wanting to get as far away from New York as possible to begin anew with her unborn child, Ellie sets off for Paradise, Nebraska where Parker McMillan, her penpal of a few years, lives. <br />When Ellie meets Parker, he turns out to be both handsome and sweet. Parker opens up his home to her and their longtime camaraderie through letter writing evolves into a wonderful platonic friendship. Although they get along well together as friends, Ellie knows she isn't in love with Parker and vice versa. Parker may be as sweet as they come, but the man she can't get out of her mind is his cranky, brooding brother Roy.<br />Roy McMillan doesn't like the fact that a stranger from New York is coming to Paradise to stay with his family for an undetermined amount of time. His brother Parker is too softhearted to Roy's way of thinking. Parker not only falls in love too easily, but worse yet, he becomes a melodramatic, romantic milksop each time he gets caught by Cupid's bow. Not wanting to endure the torture of having to listen to Parker moan around the house if and when he falls in love with Ellie and subsequently loses her like he did the last one, Roy decides to keep an eye on one Ellie Fitzsimmons. Roy's problem now is that he is the one who feels like doing a little milksop moaning around the house, for he's falling fast and furiously for Ellie.<br />The strength of &quot;Trouble in Paradise&quot; comes from the colorful and humorous characters, both primary and secondary. The protagonists are perfect romantic leads: Ellie is independent and feisty, yet knows she loves Roy and doesn't bother to fight that fact, and Roy is the most adorably surly hero I've ever had the pleasure to read about. Roy reminds me of a younger, cuter Archie Bunker and proves beyond a shadow of a doubt that cranky men can be wonderfully sexy heroes too.<br />-full review originally published in The Romance Reader	2000-10-01
US	50608542	R2UQR8UWHZO9NE	1551666081	942164636	Refuge (Mira)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	G Rated Content	The Refuge, the sequel to The Inheritance, is an engaging read. Cresswell's latest romantic suspense novel is refreshingly unique from anything I've read in a while.<br />Marisa Joubert is a single mother in dire need of gainful employment. As a high school dropout with no marketable skills, she feels lucky to find a job making good wages at &quot;The Refuge&quot;, a home for unwed mothers in the Colorado Rockies. It doesn't take long, however, for Marisa to figure out that something is amiss at her new place of employment. For one thing, the majority of the women that live in &quot;The Refuge&quot; are refugees in the truest sense of the word...they herald from war-torn places like Bosnia and the former Soviet states, many of them having endured rape and other horrific atrocities at the hands of the soldiers in their former countries. These young girls speak little English and have no one to turn to in the United States, a land where everyone is a stranger to them. Furthermore, all of these girls are pressured into giving up their babies for adoption, with the option of keeping their children all but removed from them.<br />Shortly after one of the pregnant refugees turns up missing, Marisa discovers something even more shocking, and that's the truth behind &quot;The Refuge's&quot; side business. As it turns out, these young women have survived one nightmare only to be thrown into another. Marisa isn't certain what to do or who she can trust. Is her boss behind all of this, or is he an innocent pawn? And what about Jimmy, the handsome, but mentally retarded janitor who she senses isn't as slow as he leads people to believe?<br />Jimmy Griffin is a former FBI agent who now has his own security firm. He recently lost his sister in a car crash, and although the police ruled it to be an accident, he isn't buying it. Two days before his sister died, she had left a message on Jimmy's answering machine, wanting to speak with him. As it turns out, his sister, an importantdoctor who had once volunteered her skills in Bosnia following the aftermath of the ethnic cleansing campaign, had found some information concerning a man from &quot;The Refuge&quot; that had taken two of the pregnant women from the camp she had worked in and secreted them back to the United States.<br />Jimmy doesn't have much to go on besides his instincts. Determined to find his sister's killer, he goes undercover and works at &quot;The Refuge&quot;, posing as a mentally retarded janitor. When the office manager Marisa discovers his true identity, Jimmy is forced to tell her everything he suspects is going on. Will Marisa believe him? And just as importantly, will she ever forgive him for deceiving her?<br />Cresswell manages to create a strong romance and a good suspense while simultaneously delivering a poignant commentary on the plight of poor women in America today. She stirs your social conscience, but does it in such a way that you don't really realize it until the book is over. The story and romance don't suffer in the least, which couldn't have been an easy thing to pull off. Very admirably done.<br />-full review originally published in The Romance Reader	2000-09-28
US	50608542	R46ABMABLORO4	0760064725	498842992	New Perspectives on Microsoft FrontPage 2000, Comprehensive (New Perspectives (Course Technology Paperback))	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Praise from a purchaser not in the web publishing business	This book reads so much better than the manual that Microsoft includes with Frontpage. Chapter One starts off by introducing the reader to the internet (which should give you a clue that the book is written to be beneficial to anybody, not just professionals.) <br />Once you skip Chapter One (as most of us will!), you will find a very thorough, plain-speaking, methodically written manual that teaches you with simple tutorials how to use Frontpage. There are also tons of hints and tips and it is all laid out beautifully. In addition, there are disks that can be downloaded for free at course.com to accompany the examples you use. The tutorials themselves don't take much time to complete, but if you need more practice at the end of the chapter, there are additional exercises you can do. It is impossible not to understand what you are doing when you've finished them.<br />As a career student who already has her degrees, but who goes back every so often and dabbles with this and that when something interests me, I've seen more textbooks and manuals than I care to contemplate. This is the first time, however, that I've bothered to praise one in writing. If you want help learning Frontpage (which, by the way, is an excellent program), then definitely purchase this book  :)	2000-09-20
US	50608542	R7KPHMOMH33YV	037327100X	113230341	I'll Be Seeing You (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1030) (Intimate Moments, 1030)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Excellent Category Romance	Kate Mulhern runs a small catering business called Dinner For Two; she specializes in catering gourmet meals for intimate dinners between couples.  Kate gets the shock of her life while catering one night for a client: in  between the time she leaves Phil McGaffney and his companion during the  salad course and returns to the dining room to cart in the main course,  Phil is murdered. She calls 911, whereupon Detective Raphael  &quot;Rafe&quot; Montiel immediately shows up on the scene. <br />Rafe is as  brash and arrogant as they come and rubs Kate the wrong way from the  get-go. Just when she thought matters couldn't get much worse, she is told  in no uncertain terms that the cocky, arrogant detective is to become her  full-time baby-sitter until the killer is caught. As it turns out, it  wasn't just any man that was murdered while eating Kate's salad...Phil  McGaffney also happens to be a lead man in the Irish mob. And now someone  from said mob apparently thinks she witnessed something more than she  should have and wants her dead.<br />Raphael Montiel finds the overly  organized Kate Mulhern an annoyance from the onset, but the more time he  spends with her, the more she grows on him. Unfortunately, his attraction  to Kate is something Rafe must force himself to ignore. His last girlfriend  Anna had been murdered by a serial killer who chose her for the simple  reason that she was in Rafe's life. Anna's killer had taunted him  afterwards with vivid descriptions of how she had looked while dying, how  she had begged for mercy, and how her screams had sounded. Rafe cannot go  through something like that again, especially with a woman like Kate who  he's beginning to feel more attached to than all of the women in his past  combined... <br />The protagonists of I'll Be Seeing You are colorful and  well-rounded. Kate makes for a wonderful heroine. As a reader who has never  carried a fond torch for ditzy female leads, Kate's strength of character  is a major bonus inthis well crafted novel. As a contrast, Bird has penned  a hero who is just as strong internally, but who otherwise is Kate's polar  opposite; where she is overly organized and somewhat uptight, he is sloppy  and easy going. <br />It's amusing to watch the protagonists' characteristics  rub off on each other to the point where Rafe begins cleaning up around the  house and Kate begins kicking back and drinking beer. This is a couple that  makes sense together and as the reader, you have no trouble whatsoever  identifying that fact. Don't miss this one.<br />-full review originally  published in The Romance Reader	2000-09-14
US	50608542	R3K889W37W7YN8	0385335318	466643093	More than a Mistress	Books	4	51	53	N	N	A Compelling Romance	Jane is on the run from her cousin, an earl who inherited his title (but  not the fortune) from Jane's father. The fortune was left to Jane and the  new earl wishes to claim it by forcing her to wed his heir. She flees from  her home and runs off to London, whereupon the earl immediately tries to  find her, claiming that she robbed him and tried to murder his son. He  wants, of course, to bring her back into his custody and force her into  matrimony with his heir.<br />Jane meets up with Jocelyn--a duke--when she  interrupts his duel with another gentleman in Hyde Park by shouting at the  duo to stop, thereby distracting him from taking his shot. His opponent  takes advantage and unsporting though it might be, shoots Jocelyn in the  leg. Jocelyn, angry (and at this point in the novel a total jerk), insists  that Jane nurse him back to health until he is recuperated. Once his leg is  healed, however, he falls in love with her and doesn't want to let her go.  He therefore offers Jane a new proposition...to become his  mistress...<br />This is the first book I've ever read by Mary Balogh.  &quot;More Than A Mistress&quot; is captivating on many levels, the most  poignant two being emotionally and sensually. From an emotional standpoint,  I was spellbound as I watched Jocelyn's slow transformation from jerk to  hero and Jane's slow melting from ice queen to warm-hearted heroine.  Sensually, the book has a lot of heat. This author really knows how to draw  out a scene and ring it for everything it's worth. <br />The only reason I  didn't give the book a five was because it went on for about 40 pages too  many toward the end, using up far too much space wherein Jane punishes  Jocelyn for hurting her feelings after he finds out her true identity (and  has a negative reaction to her lying about it to him) and, somewhat  ludicrously, for &quot;making her fall in love with him&quot;. <br />I  appreciate a good dressing down scene or two as much as the next person,  but therecomes a point when enough is enough...one chapter or two is  okay--even three I could have lived with--but Jocelyn's punishment went on  for the better part of a hundred pages. I found myself growing exasperated  with the heroine Jane and began to find her behavior toward the hero  petulant rather than independent. (Especially once she made it clear that  he was being punished more so for making her fall in love with him rather  than for any of his alleged misdoings.)<br />Still, the rest of the book was  excellent enough to make me overlook the rather lengthy punishment for the  most part. And since everything turns out alright in the end, it doesn't  detract too much from the enjoyment as a whole. I still can't help but to  begrudge a solid 40 pages of Jocelyn's punishment, however. The book would  have been 100% perfect without it!	2000-09-12
US	50608542	R3DRMGQQ9ERA6T	051512902X	14576775	After Dark (Ghost Hunters, Book 1)	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Pretty Good	A few hundred years ago, colonists from earth passed through a curtain in  the universe that took them into another part of the galaxy. The curtain  closed without warning, separating them from the mother planet forever. The  colonists then make their home on the planet of Harmony where, after  several generations, their progeny begin developing extraordinary psychic  abilities. <br />There were peoples that dwelled on Harmony before the earth  colonists arrived, but their race died out centuries beforehand. They left  behind some rather unusual things, however, such as channeled psychic  energy called illusion traps that, if a person wanders into them, can send  them into a psychosis. <br />Lydia Smith is a para-archeologist currently  working at a less than reputible museum of artifacts. She used to be high  up in the academic world, but after she fell into an illusion trap in the  old catacombs in Cadence City, her colleagues feared that she would be too  unstable to work with. Lydia is trying to make a name for herself so she  can start her own consulting firm. She finds her first big client in Emmett  London. She and Emmett work together to find his missing nephew Quinn and  develop an undeniable attraction for each other along the  way...<br />&quot;After Dark&quot; is very enjoyable, but the flower series is  better. The planet of Harmony simply feels too modern day earth-like to be  a futuristic set on a different planet. At least in &quot;Amarillis&quot;,  &quot;Zinnia&quot;, and &quot;Orchid&quot;, the people who dwelled within  St. Helen's had noticeably different inventions, such as coff-tea and ice  jelly. On Harmony, they drink regular old tea and eat pizza. Same with the  lingo. On St. Helen's, the inhabitants used phrases like &quot;five  hells&quot; whereas when they cuss on Harmony, it's just &quot;hell&quot;.  In other words, I wasn't convinced that I was reading about life in another  time on another world.<br />One more criticism stems around the alleged  &quot;romance&quot;...the protagonists don't get together until the book is  all but over and even then you're kind of left hanging as to whether or not  the hero and heroine make it to happily-ever-after. According to her  website, JAK originally intended for this to be a series, but now isn't  certain she wants to write one. IF this turns into a series, then I'm  certain we'll all find out what happens with Lydia and Emmett. But if it  doesn't, then readers that like their happily-ever-afters spelled out for  them will probably find the lack of description about what becomes of the  protagonists' relationship disgruntling at best and annoying at worst.  <br />Regardless of those two criticism, I still thoroughly enjoyed  &quot;After Dark&quot;. It contains all of the usual witticisms that JAK is  known for and the city of Old Cadence with its ghost hunters and  para-archeologists makes for an entertaining way to spend a day. I don't  regret buying this book, but I'm still convinced it could have been better.	2000-09-09
US	50608542	R1PQ94JI5S73RM	1551665956	155370460	Between The Lines (Mira Romance)	Books	5	122	123	N	N	Vintage Krentz (reprint)	If you haven't yet read this category length novel originally printed in the mid-eighties, definitely get it. This is Krentz at her laugh out loud,  wittiest best. <br />Amber Langley moves to Seattle (where else in a Krentz?)  in an effort to leave her former life behind. Six months ago, she broke up  with Roarke Kelly, a race car driver she had had an intense, passionate  affair with. Determined to never again be a prisoner of her tempestuous  passions, she agrees to marry her mild, plodding boss Cormick Grayson for  completely sensible reasons. Little does Amber know, Gray is really a  Superman in Clark Kent's clothing...<br />This book has some of the best  one-liners Krentz has ever penned. The relationship between the  protagonists is right on target, the sex is hot, and the comedy is classic  JAK. Don't miss this one while it's still in print.	2000-09-03
US	50608542	R1GH6E22OB6YA7	0515128848	369953235	Midsummer Lightning (Irish Eyes)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Very Good Contemporary Romance	Some of my favorite reads this year have been penned by relatively new or  first time authors. Set in a castle in contemporary County Cork Ireland,  Kate Ivers' debut novel for Jove's &quot;Irish Eyes&quot; line is worth  making a trip to the bookstore to purchase. <br />American hotel executive  Kelly Sullivan is set to become the next VP of her company. Before jetting  off to Ireland, her boss implies that the promotion is all but hers after  she cements the sale of Whitlock Castle and turns it into a luxury hotel  for the company. The O'Meara family, who Lawrence Hotels is buying the  castle from, has lived at Whitlock for generations. They don't want to  leave, but finances dictate otherwise. They agreed to the sale not only  because they had to, but also because the CEO of Lawrence Hotels promised  on a handshake not to dissemble the castle's interior. <br />When hard-nosed,  strictly business Kelly arrives at Whitlock, she tries not to involve  herself with the O'Mearas on a personal level. She has a promotion at  stake, after all. But the O'Meara clan--which consists of the sinfully  handsome Conor, plus his father and two spinster aunts--are hard not to  love. The elders treat Kelly like family and make her feel more welcome and  at home than she has ever felt in her life. Between her burgeoning  affection for the elders, her growing love of the Irish countryside and the  castle itself, not to mention her steamy affair with Conor, Kelly is done  in for. So when her boss outlines his intention to gut the interior of the  O'Meara family's precious Whitlock in order to turn it into a medieval  theme park, she vows to do all she can to stop him.<br />Conor O'Meara is  physically attracted to the snooty Yank the moment he lays eyes on her. He  doesn't do anything about their mutual attraction at first because he finds  Kelly too prickly to warm up to, but he quickly realizes that she is all  bark and no bite. During the time Conor and Kelly work together to figure  out a way to save Whitlock Castle from being rendered extinct, Conor grows  more and more attached to the feisty American and realizes he now has two  problems. Not only must he save his family home from Lawrence Hotels, but  he must figure out a way to fix his broken heart if Kelly decides to leave  him for her glamorous job when all is said and done...<br />Midsummer  Lightning has a lot to recommend it. Great characters, engaging plot, and a  vivid setting. Stop by the bookstore and pick this one up the next time you  feel like indulging in a little Irish escapism.<br />- full review originally  published in The Romance Reader	2000-09-02
US	50608542	R1DRDIQHIZV8QM	0515128856	585450077	A Perfect Love (Time Passages)	Books	5	56	56	N	N	A Perfect Romance	Some of the summer's best romances are coming from the fantasy/paranormal  genre and the roll does not stop with A Perfect Love. Sandra Landry's debut  novel has it all...time traveling, reincarnation, nasty villains,  action-packed plot, hunky hero, lovable heroine, warm and snugly romantic  love (with neither too much nor too little reticence from the protagonists  before admitting to it), and one of the most unique story lines this jaded  aficionado of fantasy romance has come across in a while. Indeed, the story  line contains so many different elements that it's difficult to decide what  should and shouldn't go into a plot description. Bearing that in mind, here  are the bare facts:<br />England, Late 1100s: A witch foretells to Lord Faulk  Brookstone that there is only one woman in existence capable of giving him  heirs. She is golden of hair, golden of eyes, and sports the marking of the  rose. The witch gives him a final warning: &quot;As she comes through the  water, so can the water take her away.&quot; Faulk shrugs the old woman off  and continues on his way, putting her declaration from his mind. <br />Flash  forward six years: Recently back from battle, Faulk is riding along the  beach when he happens upon the unconscious body of a golden haired woman  that is barely clinging to life. He picks up the mystery lady and carries  her inside of his keep where his nursemaid Mildred attends to her. Mildred  is the only other person Faulk ever confided in about the witch's prophesy,  so when she finds an intricate drawing of a rose on the shoulder of the  unconscious woman while undressing her, she immediately rushes to Faulk  with the news. Faulk is momentarily stunned, but quickly recovers with a  new and fierce determination. This mystery woman will heal and she will  marry him, whether she wants to or not...<br />England, Present Day: After  returning from a visit with her family in France, Nadine du Monte arrives  at her flat in England only to be given some horrific news: her parents  have been killed in a car crash. She makes immediate plans to head back to  France, but since it is late in the evening the only available mode of  transportation is the ferry. Grief-stricken, Nadine books passage and sets  sail across the English Channel. At some point during the trip, she is  overcome with a dizzy spell that knocks her off balance and sends her  plunging into the cold waters of the channel. <br />Nadine awakens three days  later, only to find herself in a strange room, on a strange bed, surrounded  by a bunch of strange people that dress weird. Needless to say, she has a  lot of questions running through her mind, but the most prominent ones  revolve around the handsome man named Faulk and his bizarre (not to mention  frightening) announcement that she is not permitted to leave his home. And  even stranger yet, she is suddenly having flash memories of another woman's  life, as if that life had once been her own...<br />-full review originally  published in The Romance Reader	2000-08-22
US	50608542	R36BMCOFA08VMJ	0821766627	175682080	AN English Rose (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	2	9	9	N	N	Very Depressing Novel	There is much to be said for story lines that revolve around a gentleman who, once he has met the woman of his dreams, will do anything to make her  his. But when that gentleman's love is met with nothing but coldness,  bitterness, and stoic indifference clear up until the last two pages of the  novel, it leaves much to be desired in the way of a romance. <br />Pull out  the prozac...you'll need it to get through this depressing tale.<br />Beau St.  James is a man of means with one serious problem: his seventeen-year-old  daughter Katherine is constantly doing impetuous, foolhardy things that  have succeeded in jeopardizing her reputation. When Katherine is caught  posing nude for a London sculptor, Beau is determined to do anything to  keep the gossip from being spread, including succumbing to Sir John  Rapsville's blackmail scheme. According to Sir John, if Beau wishes to keep  Katherine's name intact, then as his attorney, he demands that Beau get him  the deed to &quot;Solitude&quot;, a tiny country cottage that he has made  numerous attempts to buy from its spinster owner to no avail. The reason  Sir John wants it? To ensconce his mistress there for easy access.<br />Hannah  Whitechurch is an artist responsible for the care of her two younger  sisters. Finances have been tight as of late, with her watercolors not  selling as they should. Nevertheless, Hannah refuses to sell her beloved  home &quot;Solitude&quot; to the handsome Beau St. James, as it is the only  thing in her life she can claim as her very own. Hannah is attracted to  Beau from the onset, but because she's afraid of that attraction, she does  all in her power to keep him at arm's length. Will Beau be able to break  through the hardened exterior of the woman he has fallen in love with and  make her realize she loves him back?<br />Unfortunately, as previously stated,  Hannah's coat of armor is not dissembled until the last two pages of the  book. It's a sad state of affairs in a romance novel when, as the reader,  you start wishing the hero would give up and look to another heroine for  his heart's desire. Quite frankly, after about a hundred or so pages into  the book, you are left wondering what it is that is so special about  Hannah. Two hundred pages into the book, you're left wondering if Hannah  has ever entertained a thought about anyone else's happiness but her  own.<br />The worst aspect of the novel stems simply from the fact that it is  depressing. There is little joy to be found in An English Rose. From  killing off characters you come to care about to Beau's unrequited love  throughout the whole of the read, this book leaves you with a sad, sunken  feeling. Even at the end, when everything is supposedly all right between  the hero and heroine, we are told little of it. The epilogue is devoted to  the ridiculous cottage &quot;Solitude&quot; of all things, instead of used  as most authors would to tell us that Beau and Hannah did indeed live  happily-ever-after, buy a house with a white picket fence, and make a score  of babies together.<br />An English Rose is well-written and once you get  through the first half of it, it does manage to keep your attention, just  not in a very upbeat way. Unless you enjoy reading harrowing sagas where  little happiness is to be found, I would think twice before purchasing An  English Rose.<br />-full review originally published in The Romance Reader	2000-08-22
US	50608542	R62PY7UT7KKGS	037370934X	937642048	His Daddy's Eyes: A Little Secret (Harlequin Superromance No. 934)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Best of Harlequin's Superromance Line	Debra Salomen's latest offers 297 pages filled with intrigue, good plotting, and great characters. You'll have a hard time putting this book  down once you crack it open. <br />Lawrence &quot;Ren&quot; Bishop is a rising  star in politics. Two years ago he spent the night with a mysterious woman  who called herself &quot;Jewel&quot; and wants to make certain said night  won't come back to haunt him at reelection time. Ren hires his PI friend Bo  to find Jewel and ascertain whether or not she's a potential blackmail  threat. When Bo returns with the news that Jewel's real name is Julia and  that she was killed in a boating accident, Ren feels saddened rather than  relieved. His sadness then turns to shock when Bo announces that Julia gave  birth to a son named Brady roughly nine months to the day of their  fling...<br />Bookstore owner Sara Carsten has been raising her nephew Brady  since her sister and brother-in-law were tragically killed. She thinks  nothing of it when a man named Bo and his handsome friend Ren start hanging  around her bookstore. Sara finds her thoughts turning more and more to Ren  as the days progress, so naturally she is devastated when he confesses who  he is and why he sought her out to begin with. Ren might be able to do  things to her heart that she hadn't thought possible, but there was no way  on earth she was giving up Brady without a fight...<br />-full review  originally published in The Romance Reader	2000-08-20
US	50608542	R3MNA5JVHM0ECI	0821766600	206060123	Unforsaken	Books	4	13	13	N	N	4.5 Stars	She had me at the prologue. Lisa Higdon's latest novel, which takes place in the Reconstructionist South, is not to be missed.<br />Olivia Chandler  rushes to the train station to wait for her beloved fiance Matt to emerge  from the passenger car. He has been away fighting in the Civil War and now,  at long last, he is scheduled to come home. Olivia has been in love with  Matt all of her life and cannot bear to wait even another moment to marry  him. Giddy with excitement to be reunited, she rushes toward him the moment  she spots him, holding out her hands to welcome him. Matt does not reach  back. A moment later, when a very pregnant woman steps off the train and  sidles up next to him, Olivia realizes why. Matt is married to someone  else. Heartbroken, she runs from the depot, never once looking  back...<br />Matthew Bowen is stunned to see Olivia at the train station. He's  always loved her and curses the fates that kept him from receiving the  letter she'd sent to him, announcing the death of her father, a wealthy,  mean-spirited man who wouldn't let Matt within a foot of his daughter.  Thinking he'd never be permitted to have Olivia's hand in marriage, Matt  had gone out and done something stupid while at war, seeking solace in  another woman's arms for a night. That night had resulted in the conception  of his daughter, leaving him no alternative but to do the honorable thing.  Still, he knew he'd always love Olivia Chandler...<br />A few years later,  Matt's wife dies and he is faced with the daunting task of raising his  young daughter Sarah alone while singlehandedly working his fields.  Olivia's aunt Eula sees this as the perfect opportunity to bring the couple  back together again, so she offers to take care of Sarah for Matt while he  works, then pushes the task onto her less than willing niece. Aunt Eula  hopes her plan will work, for it will take nothing short of a miracle to  melt the ice around Olivia's cool facade and turn her back into the hopefulyoung girl she had been before her dreams had been shattered and she  evolved into a bitter, hard-hearted woman...<br />-full review originally  published in &quot;The Romance Reader&quot;	2000-08-17
US	50608542	R2AOCYJN84J0P6	0843947470	584673614	High Intensity	Books	3	31	37	N	N	3.5 stars	First of all, let me start off by admitting that out of all of Joy's books, &quot;High Energy&quot; was the one I least wanted to read a sequel  to. It was pretty good, it's just that I much prefer her futuristics and  her sole historical over her contemporaries. *However*, if you loved  &quot;High Energy&quot; then you will probably also like &quot;High  Intensity&quot; a lot more than I did. <br />The best thing that &quot;High  Intensity&quot; has going for it is its humor. In that respect, I enjoyed  the book a lot and the dialogue is what took this book from a 3 to a 3.5  for me. But I'll be honest, if Joy's name wasn't stamped on the cover, I  never would have known she'd written it. For one thing, her trademark *hot*  *hot* *hot* sex scenes were not there. It was very much a PG-13 read and  not what I've come to expect and want out of Joy. <br />Another reason I was  less than thrilled with &quot;High Intensity&quot; is because it just sort  of lacked a certain &quot;oomph&quot;. I buy Dara Joy romances because I  enjoy reading about the hunt, the way she pens a hero finding and claiming  his heroine. Zanita is claimed from before page 1, so there is no hunt to  speak of. Had Joy focused on Mills and Gregor instead of Zanita and Tyber,  perhaps this book would have been a solid 4 - 5 read.<br />Since there is no  hunt, &quot;High Intensity&quot; instead focuses on a case Zanita and Tyber  embroil themselves in involving an allegedly haunted house. The main focus  of the story is on this case instead of on the romance. Unfortunately, I  wasn't drawn in enough to care very much for the case itself. It read a lot  like a Scooby Doo mystery, only in this episode, Fred and Daffney are  finally getting it on (at a PG-13 level).<br />To be honest, I don't know if I  rated &quot;High Intensity&quot; a 3.5 because of or despite of the fact  that Joy wrote it. Had anyone else written this book, I probably would have  given it a 3 at best. I purchased this book expecting to like it, wanting  to like it, and was disappointed when it took me five days to get through  it. <br />But let me stress again that tastes are subjective. If you enjoy  wacky &quot;who dunnits&quot; and if &quot;High Energy&quot; blew you out  of the water, then do not let this review dissuade you from buying  &quot;High Intensity&quot;. If, however, you are like me and prefer books  that concentrate on the romance and &quot;High Energy&quot; was just an  okay read for you, then you can take this review to the bank.	2000-08-14
US	50608542	R2WR9NHV5MYTF	0515128651	375326361	Opposites Attract (Macleod Family)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Not Quite Up To Par	I'm certain that quite a few people will purchase this anthology (as I did) to read Kurland's latest novella. I hate to be the one to break the  news to you, but hers is the least enjoyable of the whole book. I would  have given it a 1 or 2 had it stood alone.<br />Kurland's story &quot;The  Icing on the Cake&quot; reads like something out of the young adults  section of your local bookstore. I love Kurland despite the fact that she  is a G-rated author (a typical love scene in one of her books consists of  the line &quot;and then he loved her sweetly&quot;), but &quot;The Icing on  the Cake&quot; was not only devoid of love scenes, it was devoid of mature  adult emotions. The interaction between the hero and heroine left me  feeling as though I was reading from an old episode of &quot;Happy  Days&quot; or something. Unfortunately, the hero is more of a Potzie than a  Fonz.<br />Regardless, here's a short recap of the novellas for you (taken  from inside the book's jacket word for word):<br />1. &quot;The Icing on the  Cake&quot; - He's a writer working on his new novel, and baking cakes on  the side. She's an Alaskan wilderness buff more experienced at fending off  grizzlies than men. But she's about to discover the joy of coming in from  the cold...<br />2. &quot;The Short, Hot Summer&quot; - He was as out of place  in Alabama as she would be in Manhattan. But the temperature spikes  whenever an executive stuck in town for a big-time deal and his small-time  landlady are together--creating enough heat to rival the sultry summer  nights...<br />3. &quot;Pride and Prejudice&quot; - A double-booked hotel room  during a prestigious dog show pits a cartoonist and her pet papillon with  an award-winning Border collie. What ensues is a sexy contest of wills. And  its winner take all...<br />4. &quot;The Princess and the Adventurer&quot; -  She stuck out like a debutante at a monster truck rally. What was a lady  doing in a cantina on the border of the Mexican jungle? Little did Matthew  Kincaid realize, he was just the man she was looking for...	2000-08-06
US	50608542	R1EEYFAZAO8NQ3	0373194641	313159637	First Time, Forever (Virgin Brides) (Silhouette Romance)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Excellent Read	The story line is nothing new: a big, handsome cowboy meets a virgin who  is ripe for a man's touch, he takes her to his ranch and marries her, and  they live happily ever after.  What this category romance has going for it  that a lot of reads featuring similar &quot;cowboys and virgins&quot; plots  don't, is that Cara Coulter has managed to rehash the old story line in a  very entertaining way.<br />Thirty-four-year-old Kathleen Miles has been  raising her twelve-year-old orphaned nephew Mac alone since her sister died  five years ago. When Kathleen's ex-fiance announces his engagement to a  young woman in her early twenties, she decides to begin anew by leaving  Vancouver to move to Hopkins Gulch, a small ranching community in  Saskatchewan, Canada. Kathleen has never dated much and her only  relationship had been with her ex-fiance, but when she sets eyes on Evan  Atkins, the rancher who is eight years her junior does things to her heart  that she hadn't thought an aging spinster could still  feel...<br />Twenty-six-year-old Evan Atkins is raising his three-year-old son  Jesse alone. After the horrific marriage he endured with Jesse's now  deceased mother, the last thing on Evan's mind is falling in love again.  But when he sees Kathleen Miles for the first time, he can't think of ever  having seen a prettier face. And when he gets to know her as a friend  through an act of the fates, he realizes he's definitely never met anyone  with a bigger heart...<br />-full review originally published in The Romance  Reader	2000-08-04
US	50608542	R2Z0LVKO7814X5	0373270917	279978210	Game Of Chance (Silhouette Intimate Moments, 1021)	Books	4	200	205	N	N	A Great Read	I doubt there are many romance fans out there that don't know about this series, but in case you're a Howard newcomer, here's the order: (MacKenzie's) Mountain, Mission, Pleasure, Magic, and then finally, A Game  of Chance. With the exception of MacKenzie's Magic, they are all excellent  reads. <br />Anti-terrorist agent Chance MacKenzie has been trying to get to  the infamous terrorist Cripsin Hauer for what seems like forever. When  Chance discovers he has a daughter--Sunny Miller--he sets his sights on  seducing her, figuring she can lure Hauer to him. What he doesn't know at  the time, is that Sunny has been on the run from her father since  birth...<br />The book was a typical Howard in that it was fast-paced and  sexy. The only reason I didn't give the book a solid five was because it  was reminiscent in some ways of her early categories from the 80s...in  other words, the hero infuriated me by his use of Sunny, going so far as to  knowingly put her life in dire straights, even AFTER he knew of her  innocence. I don't feel the reader was given enough &quot;good&quot;  chapters at the end to completely balance out what Chance did to Sunny  enough to get totally over that fact. <br />It's common for Howard to use a  misunderstanding between the characters in her books, or even an  out-and-out usage of the heroine on the part of the hero, and let's face  it...they make excellent premises for a hot getting-back-together scene  toward the end. But this is the first time I can think of where she had a  hero use a heroine to the point of putting her in a position where he  purposely endangered her LIFE. If an author's going to do that, I want to  read major big-time, mind-blowing grovelling scenes before the heroine  forgives him.<br />Nevertheless, A Game of Chance was a great read. Chance was  sexy with a capital SEX (one of Sunny's lines in the book!) and Sunny made  a great, independent heroine for the most part. Still, in retrospect, I  find myself more likely to reread MacKenzie's Mountain and MacKenzie's  Pleasure, Wolf and Zane's stories.	2000-07-27
US	50608542	RWA1E81YEWRZC	0505523876	735348451	Truly, Madly Viking (Time of Your Life)	Books	5	32	32	N	N	Fabulous	Jorund Ericsson comes back from war in the year 998, only to find his wife and twin daughters dead from a famine that has hit the Norse lands. Compounding the grief that the loss of his children brings to him is the  fact that his younger brother Geirolf (The Last Viking) is missing at sea,  possibly dead. Promising his father that he will find him, hopefully still  alive, he and his other younger brother Magnus set sail for the area off  Iceland in which Geirolf was last spotted. When the anchor on his longship  becomes entangled in weeds, Jorund divests himself of his clothing and  jumps overboard to remedy the situation. A few minutes later, he finds  himself on the back of a killer whale, future-bound...<br />Dr. Maggie McBride  is a psychologist that works at the Rainbow Psychiatric Hospital in  Gavelston, Texas. Taking her twin daughters for a trip to Orcaland, she's  surprised to discover that more than just the whales splash around naked at  the marine park. When a huge, naked man wearing nothing but his swordbelt  comes cruising into the park on the back of a killer whale, Maggie takes it  upon herself to have him sent to the Rainbow Hospital for evaluation,  rather than to jail for endangering the mammals.<br />Maggie and Jorund feel  connected in some strange, unexplicable way from the moment their eyes  first meet. Both of them have their reasons for denying the feelings they  have for each other, which grow stronger every day. Maggie tells herself  she can't care for Jorund because he's a patient in her mental health  facility who fancies himself a tenth century Viking, whereas Jorund tries  to pretend he feels nothing for Maggie because it complicates his feelings  in regard to returning to the past. Both of them, however, eventually come  to terms with the truth: they are afraid to make themselves vulnerable by  experiencing love for another person...<br />Truly, Madly Viking is Sandra  Hill at her wittiest, funniest, hilarious best. From her descriptions of  the modern world through Jorund's eyes, to the patients of the Rainbow  Hospital we come to love, to Jorund's various escapades, you'll have a hard  time trying to keep a straight face while reading this book. Entangled into  the hilarious scenes Hill laces throughout the whole read, is a warm your  heart, make you smile love story between a man and a woman who desperately  need their other half, and a man and two little girls who need the kind of  magic only a parent-child relationship can bring.<br />As is the norm for most  Sandra Hill novels, the secondary characters, specifically the patients of  the Rainbow Hospital, are irresistably endearing. From Nurse Hatcher, who  Jorund thinks would make a fine warrior, to Rosalyn, the nymphomaniac  librarian, to Steve, the impotent Vietnam veteran (whose own story brings  tears to your eyes), the well-scripted cast of Truly, Madly Viking will  knock your socks off. <br />Even the method by which Jorund comes to the  present, though penned in Hill's signature wacky comedic light, is  unexpectedly refreshing. Riding naked on the back of a killer whale into  the future, as ludicrous as it sounds upon first hearing it, actually calls  for less of a jump in logic than most time travels, which typically use  fairie rings and enchanted necklaces. (At least the whale scenario conforms  to scientific theories which purport that if time travel were ever to take  place, it would have to happen in water.)<br />I just loved the book. It's no  doubt one of the funniest novels you'll read all year.<br />-full review  originally published in The Romance Reader	2000-07-27
US	50608542	RF235ZBB64EWD	0380805707	446453224	A Secret Love (Cynster Novels)	Books	4	42	45	N	N	Book 5 of Bar Cynster Series	Thirty-year-old Gabriel Cynster is intrigued by the mysterious, veiled countess from the moment they first meet, so when she calls upon him to aid her in a quest that will keep a cutthroat swindler from bilking away all  that remains of her family's estate, he is powerless to deny her, or the  attraction he carries for her. Wanting the mystery woman to reveal her  identity to him of her own volition, Gabriel allows her to skirt around the  issue of who she really is while he expertly entangles her in a  Cynster-spun web of seduction. He will do as the countess asks and find the  pieces of information she needs to clear her family of its debts, but each  time Gabriel unravels a new piece of information, he will also exact a  payment from her...in the form of innocent kisses at first, but more  intimate acts as their relationship progresses. <br />Gabriel can't understand  what it is about the countess that sets her apart from the women in his  past, but he quickly realizes that, unlike any of his previous mistresses,  she can stir his emotions as well as his body. In fact, there is only one  other woman that has ever been able to get under Gabriel's skin, and she  was more of a pariah than a blessing; she is a prickly spinster named  Alathea who has been a close friend of the family for years, and Gabriel's  longtime nemesis. Thankfully, the countess is nothing like Alathea, or so  Gabriel tells himself...<br />At twenty-nine, Lady Alathea Morwellan is the  matriarch and backbone of her father's earldom. The earl has an unfortunate  propensity for getting himself into financial straights, so he's lucky to  have a daughter with a proclivity for getting him out of them. Only this  time, Alathea fears she won't be able to save the family's finances. There  is only one man she knows of who is powerful and connected enough to stop  the Morwellan family's inevitable ruin, but her pride and fear of being  turned away keep Alathea from accosting Gabriel Cynster directly. Instead,  she concocts an elaborate charade and reveals herself only as a mysterious,  shrouded countess to the man whose presence has plagued her for years. To  Alathea, it seemed the perfect, harmless scheme--until, of course, she  discovers what it feels like to be seduced by a Cynster...<br />The book  points to the fact that Lucifer, the sixth and final member of Bar Cynster,  will get caught by the curse next. But who will come after Lucifer? It  looks like it will be Chillingsworth, the handsome earl who plays a minor  but titillating role throughout the entire series, and a tellingly  significant role in &quot;A Secret Love&quot;. So don't lose hope Bar  Cynster fans...it looks as if there are still a few more stories to  come!<br />-full review originally published in The Romance Reader	2000-07-14
US	50608542	R1EIF9SXP1JJ5K	051512866X	477226687	Winter Garden	Books	5	74	79	N	N	One Of The Best Books Ever Written Of Any Genre	The task of summarizing the plot of &quot;Winter Garden&quot; is not an easy one. Usually when this is the case, it's because the novel in question has no plot to speak of, or a very weak and jumbled one at best. Reverse  that observation in the extreme for &quot;Winter Garden.&quot; Adele  Ashford has woven together a storyline so intricate and powerful, that it  is difficult to give readers very many descriptions of it without giving  away too much, thereby spoiling it for you. Indeed, even the smallest of  reviewer comments could weaken from the intensity of its experience.  Keeping that in mind, let me attempt to summarize the plot of &quot;Winter  Garden&quot; for you.<br />Thomas Blackwood is an agent for the English  government who has gone to the village of Winter Garden to bring to justice  a nobly born gentleman dealing illegally in the opium trade.  It is easy  for Thomas to blend in with the Winter Park locals without bringing undue  attention to himself because he's known to them as a recluse and a  scholar...a role that comes readily to him since he truly is both of those  things. <br />Thomas has lived alone for years. He has isolated himself both  physically and emotionally from the rest of society and has no one in his  life that he is close to, save a son that is studying abroad. He wishes,  however, that his fate was different. And from the first moment he laid  eyes on Madeleine DuMais, he knew with all certainty where his destiny  lay...<br />Madeleine DuMais is a French-born woman of lowly birth who was  fathered illegitimately by an Englishman. She carries many deep, unhealed  emotional scars as testament to the horrid childhood she bore.  Nevertheless, Madeleine has managed to carve out a place for herself in  gentle society. To the French aristocracy, Madeleine is known merely as a  celebrated beauty; to a select group of English government officials, she  is known as one of Britain's most revered spies. Because of her gender,  Madeleine isable to glean information in ways that are socially impossible  for a gentleman in the mid 1800s to do. So when she is called from France  to Winter Garden in England to aide in the capturing of an opium smuggler,  she is prepared to give her all. What she isn't prepared for, however, is  the giving away of her heart to a mysterious, reclusive man who makes her  feel emotions she'd thought long dead...<br />&quot;Winter Garden&quot; is a  sensuous, erotic, and emotional tale that will leave you fanning yourself  one minute and reaching for a tissue the next. The sensuality level of this  novel is very high and is expertly woven throughout, while its erotic  atmosphere is achieved through both character dialogue and (explicit) love  scenes. The emotional intensity between the hero and the heroine only  heightens the effect.<br />This book (the sequel to &quot;Stolen Charms&quot;)  is, without a doubt, one of the best books I've ever read. This is one  purchase you simply won't regret making.<br />-full review originally  published in The Romance Reader	2000-06-30
US	50608542	R2LIBFK18F6Q9N	0373291183	23629639	Molly'S Hero	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Very Dull Until The End	Desperately wanting a home of her own, Molly Murphy left the gold mine camps of the West that she'd been raised in, married a man she didn't love, and in 1871 she and her orphaned niece moved into her husband Jack's cabin  in War Bonnet, Wyoming. Jack is out of the picture before the book even  begins, having gone back to the gold mines in hopes of striking it rich.  Molly and her niece Katie are left behind on the modest ranch to fend for  themselves...<br />Ethan Wilder is a man with a dream. He wants to bring the  railroad to War Bonnet, Wyoming. The only thing standing in between Ethan  and the realization of his goal is the run-down Murphy house that just so  happens to be situated smack dab in the middle of where the tracks must be  laid. After his business partner unsuccessfully attempts to buy the needed  plot of land from the Murphys, Ethan sets out for Molly's ranch to try to  negotiate with her. Molly, however, isn't budging. She has wanted a home of  her own for as long as she can remember and her ramshackle cabin is as  close to a home as she's ever had.<br />Unfortunately, the task of picking  apart everything that is wrong with &quot;Molly's Hero&quot; is a daunting  one. For instance, the first 250 pages of this 296 page novel could have  been condensed to approximately 50 or so pages. Scene after scene is  agonizingly drawn out, in which everything from frying bacon to putting a  new wheel on the wagon is described in endless detail. <br />The irony of  &quot;Molly's Hero&quot; is that it has a spectacular ending. Indeed, the  last 40 or so pages of the book are everything a romance novel should be.  Molly turns nice (for the most part), the lack of action picks up to an  acceptable level, and Ms. Amarillis definitely proves that she can write a  love scene with the best of them. Nevertheless, forty pages of quality can  hardly make up for the 250+ pages it takes to get there.<br />-taken in part  from my review on The Romance Reader	2000-06-24
US	50608542	RPJG0AFNJ7L0X	0843947241	53073203	Highland Lovesong	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Okay But Too Clich&eacute;	At age sixteen, Graham MacKenzie--or Gray as he's oftencalled--fell head over heels in love the first time he happened uponten-year-old Skyla MacLeod. Unfortunately for Graham, Skyla also happened to be the eldest daughter of Laird MacLeod, the Lord of the Isle of Skye and his clans' chief rival. Despite their differences, the twosome declare that they shall remain friends forevermore, then seal their pledge with a sweet, Wally-and-the-Beaver-esque blood vow. <br />Flash forward ten years: Gray is now twenty-six and laird to the MacKenzies. It's a turbulent time in Scotland, as the English king Edward Longshanks' troops occupy the land.  Realizing that wars are inevitable, Gray's uncles press him to take a bride and get her with an heir. Gray, of course, wants no other bride than the bonny Skyla MacLeod. Skyla, who he's been courting in secret for the past year, feels the same way about Gray. The major problem the couple faces is figuring out how they will get Skyla's father to consent to their marriage.  <br />Gray sets out for the Isle of Skye determined to bring an end to the two clans' long-standing feud, which would thereby allow him to claim Skyla as his bride. Little does Gray know, a disgruntled woman whose affection he'd scorned ten years ago has stolen his dirk and driven it into the heart of Skyla's uncle, making it look as though the MacLeod clansman died at Gray's hands. Skyla, who feels bitterly betrayed by the man she loves, vows never to marry Gray. Gray, still determined to have his beautiful Skyla, steals her away and takes her to his keep. <br />&quot;Highland Lovesong&quot; contained way too many clichés and overdone storylines, which may make it difficult for seasoned romance readers to appreciate it. First, the heroine's hot/cold routine (I love you, I hate you, I love you, I hate you) was dragged out several chapters too long and the hero remained way too tolerant of the heroine's childish theatrics, making him come off as somewhat weak-kneed. If you don't object to the types of scenarios I've described, you might just get more out of this novel than I did. Otherwise, keep browsing. ( ) END	2000-06-19
US	50608542	RHGKP6D01WHEZ	0373709226	202832005	Mother of the Year (Harlequin Superromance No. 922)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Great Harlequin Category Romance	Thirty-five-year-old Evie Vaughn is a financially struggling, widowed mother of three who works as a teacher and Big League baseball coach. She has wanted to coach the high school boys varsity baseball team for years  now, but has had obstacle after obstacle thrown into her path because of  her gender. The Oak Grove school board finally relents, however, and agrees  to let her take on the position, so long as Evie proves herself capable. In  order to do so, Evie's Big League team has to win the championship this  year.<br />Thirty-six-year-old Joe Scalotta is a divorced, retired football  player who moves to Oak Grove, Iowa to get out of the big city and raise  his daughter in a small town. He's made a lot of mistakes in his life,  including not being there for Toni while she was growing up. Now Toni's  sixteen, her mother is dead, and Joe finds himself wanting to be a better  dad and friend to his adolescent daughter. Joe also realizes that he wants  to remarry and experience the things he'd never gotten to experience when  Toni was a baby.<br />When Joe meets Toni's baseball coach Evie, the physical  attraction between them is mutual and instantaneous. Neither of them,  however, believes that the other is the type of person they are looking for  in a relationship. Evie has sworn to never again involve herself with a  hunky man looking for a good time, and she's read enough in the papers  about Joe &quot;Wildman&quot; Scalotta to surmise that he's everything she  doesn't need. Joe wants nothing to do with an overly opinionated,  domineering career woman whose more interested in her next big promotion  than in him. The problem is, their minds might want them apart but their  hearts and bodies don't. Evie and Joe just can't stop thinking about each  other...<br />I was pleasantly surprised with the depth of Ms. Handeland's  characters. They were complex, three-dimensional people who had their good  qualities and bad, their personal failures as well as their triumphs.In  other words, they were real people that real women readers can relate to.  I'd read another book by this author without hesitation.	2000-06-18
US	50608542	R39NBQ4X5XT8QY	0505523302	21482417	Dark Prince (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 1)	Books	5	80	100	N	N	Wow  :)~	Let me first say that this book is not for the faint of heart. There were a couple of scenes I could have lived without reading, but that's probably true of any novel, five stars or otherwise. <br />I think the true criteria  for whether or not a book is a solid five is if it can keep your interest  above and beyond the other calls of daily duty...this was definitely the  case with &quot;Dark Prince&quot;. &quot;Mommy I'm hungry&quot; was met  with &quot;in a minute sweetheart&quot;. &quot;Mommy your boyfriend is on  the phone&quot; was answered with &quot;tell him I'll call him back&quot;.  &quot;Mommy the house is on fire&quot; was...just kidding &lt;grin&gt;  But  you take my point...<br />&quot;Dark Prince&quot; held me spellbound (a rather  appropriate term for a vampire-esque novel) from start to finish. Ms.  Feehan wove together a provocative new world of Carpathians that is unique  from anything I've read to date in either romantic or fantasy fiction.  <br />&quot;Dark Prince&quot; is followed by &quot;Dark Desire&quot; and  &quot;Dark Gold&quot;. &quot;Dark Magic&quot;, the story of Gregori and the  daughter of Raven and Michail from &quot;Dark Prince&quot; is due out next  month...I can't wait.	2000-06-16
US	50608542	RJS9TEWMW1TXX	0451199545	96037502	The Duke's Double (Lords of Love)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	A Powerfully Emotional Book	This is probably the strangest review I've ever written, because it's the first time I'm going to give a 5 to a book I know I'll never read again. <br />&quot;The Duke's Double&quot; was a powerful, emotional piece of  literature that deals with friendship, betrayal, the death of a good  friend, and the redemption of a lost love. It is, without a doubt, the most  poignantly bitter-sweet work I've ever read by an author of romantic  fiction.<br />The reason I won't be reading &quot;The Duke's Double&quot;  again has nothing to do with the quality of this book...it was superbly  well written. I simply won't be pulling it off my shelf again because I  don't enjoy spending the better part of a day reading something that leaves  me feeling dismal and slightly depressed. <br />There are, however, many, many  readers who enjoy bitter-sweet stories, and will therefore thoroughly enjoy  this novel. Although I don't happen to like books that bring tears to my  eyes (and this one caused me to whip out one tissue too many), I still have  to rate this excellent piece of work a solid five. &quot;The Duke's  Double&quot; pulls at all of your heartstrings, and probably a few that you  didn't even know you had.	2000-06-13
US	50608542	R3N00R851PT8DU	0380774933	478056161	Keeper of the Heart (Ly-San-Ter Family)	Books	5	13	16	N	Y	Excellent Futuristic	At this late date, there isn't much I can add that hasn't already been written in past reviews. Basically, when I was browsing under Lindsey's name to see when her next holiday 2000 book was scheduled for release, I  was surprised to see that &quot;Keeper of the Heart&quot; had scored less  than a perfect 5, so I wanted to throw my two-cents in  :) <br />&quot;Keeper  of the Heart&quot;, the sequel to &quot;Warrior's Woman&quot; (another 5+  star book) is the first futuristic romance I ever read. I put off reading  these two books until I had depleted my stock of Lindseys, but they turned  out to be 2 of my favorites of any author ever written, period. I have  reread both of them (a rarity for me) at least 3 times a piece (an EXTREME  rarity for me!)<br />If you're a fan of medieval historical romance that has  never delved into the futuristic genre, this is an excellent place to  start. (Then try Dara Joy's Matrix of Destiny series!) Lindsey's futuristic  worlds are penned much like old medieval worlds--betrothed marriages, lord  &amp; vassal type of hierarchy (though the system works somewhat  differently), and huge, barbaric heroes (in this case 7-feet tall!) I fell  in lust at first sight with Lindsey's futuristic heroes!<br />Start out with  &quot;Warrior's Woman&quot; (the story of the mother and father), then read  &quot;Keeper of the Heart&quot; (their daughter's story). I've heard  through the romance reviewer's grapevine that Daldon (the son) is the next  one Lindsey plans to give a story to. Hmmm...can't wait for that one!	2000-06-12
US	50608542	R1PQBCH7POM5NJ	0505523841	298297102	The Black Rose (Love Spell futuristic romance)	Books	5	31	34	N	N	A Fantastic Futuristic	Zimlich's newest book &quot;The Black Rose&quot; is destined to give this author a secure notch of her own in the growing world of futuristic romance. Her writing is suspenseful and intriguing, the worlds she penned  are fascinating, and the relationship between the hero and heroine is well  worth reading about.<br />Lucien Charbonneau is a high-born noble with two  faces: one is that of obedient son born of a father who has showed him  nothing but contempt all his life, and the other is that of a revolutionary  who has plotted and planned against his cold, autocratic father for years  in an effort to throw over Dominion and force democratic changes into the  existing noble and slave like system. <br />When Lucien's father commands him  to come back to his home planet of New France, Lucien is very disconcerted  to find out that he has been used against his will or knowledge to form a  marriage alliance with the clan Fallon. Realizing how much his plans for  galactic revolution lay in his counter-identity not being discovered,  (trust me--Zimlich makes this work) Lucien bides his time and acts the  complacent son so as not to raise suspicions about himself. A few days  later, he finds himself on planet Lochlain preparing to marry a woman he  had never before laid eyes upon...<br />Alexandra Fallon, niece to the ruler  of the warrior Fallon clan, is less than thrilled to be forced to the  altar. She is a warrior scholar with a destiny of her own choosing already  mapped out. She had plans of her own...plans that didn't include being  hitched to some high-born dandy like she was certain Lucien Charbonneau was  going to turn out to be. <br />Alexandra's first and foremost desire was to  prove to the skeptics that had dismissed her father's life work as the  musings of a lunatic, that humans really had inhabited the far reaches of  the Milky Way Galaxy thousands of years ago. Her destination was the fourth  moon that laid outside of Dominion...the place where her father's writings  assured her she would find the answers.<br />And so Alexandra escapes Lochlain  after the marriage pact is signed and heads full fury toward the next  galaxy. She hitches a ride with a smuggler en route, having no clue  whatsoever that she's about to have the time of her life. Or that the  smuggler in question is her husband...	2000-06-09
US	50608542	R27F4MENYS3R93	0380795116	395793792	Baby, I'm Yours	Books	5	23	25	N	N	Definite Five Stars	Between this book and &quot;Be My Baby&quot;, Andersen has gone on my automatic buy list. There are very few writers who can pen a hero as well as Andersen. In fact, only Susan Elizabeth Phillips and Linda Howard come  to mind. <br />I was shocked to see some of the bad reviews this book took on  this site. &quot;Baby I'm Yours&quot; is a fresh, innovative, sexy,  hilarious, light-hearted romantic comedy. If you like to laugh, and if you  enjoy reading about feisty, quirky heroines who bring strong, primal males  to heel, then this is the book to purchase. <br />There's nothing quite as  nice for a reading enthusiast as finding an author who can make you smile.	2000-06-08
US	50608542	RVPH5S8R81FO7	0671019635	543514456	Family Man	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Funny &amp; Sexy	This book is in my JAK top 3. It has all the necessary elements I look for whenever I buy anything penned by this author...witty dialogue, sexy script, humorous secondary characters, a strong hero determined to make the  heroine his, &amp; a stubborn, quirky heroine who isn't so sure she wants  the hero to succeed. In effect, this is JAK at her best...a must-buy for  any of her fans.	2000-06-07
US	50608542	R1LRC0DXXZXR1	0505522977	713032291	The Reluctant Viking (Timeswept)	Books	3	34	36	N	N	My Least Favorite Hill	The word &quot;Reluctant&quot; in this book's title is decidedly apropos. Never has a man been more exasperatingly reluctant to love a woman than Thork, the Viking &quot;hero&quot; in this novel. <br />Admittedly, I read the stories of Thork and Ruby's children first (&quot;The Outlaw Viking&quot;,  &quot;The Tarnished Lady&quot;, &amp; &quot;The Bewitched Viking&quot;--in  that order). So, I was disappointed when I went back and read the parents'  story only to find an extremely aggravating relationship between the hero  and heroine. <br />Ruby loved Thork from the get-go and remained faithful to  him because of that fact. Thork, on the other hand, realized that he felt  something for Ruby, but refusing to acknowledge it, availed himself of  every woman he came across in the novel. He was hurtful to the heroine to  the point where in one scene he actually threw her out of his bedroom, but  not before she overheard him loudly ask a servant to bring his mistress to  him to take care of &quot;his needs&quot;. <br />Worse yet, Ruby continued to  pursue the idiot...relentlessly. I knew ths novel wasn't for me when I  started hoping that Hill would have Ruby take another lover. Thork simply  didn't deserve her love, or even her caring. He didn't even come around and  admit his feelings (and start being faithful) until the book was a chapter  or two from being finished.<br />Still, I gave this novel 3 stars because it  contained a lot of Hill's trademark humor and it was well written. There  are some readers who will no doubt like this book a lot...my mom enjoyed it  immensely. But my mom also enjoys Danielle Steele and ulcer-inducing sagas  like &quot;The Thornbirds&quot;. If you're like my mother and enjoy reading  those types of gut-wrenching, harrowing novels where tragedy isn't  triumphed over until the very end, then you will like this book. If you're  like me and can't stand novels like that, then save your money.	2000-06-07
US	50608542	R3ADGSOWZBDKPD	0505522551	147035301	The Last Viking (Viking (Love Spell))	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Oooh La La	This book was a delightful surprise. To be honest, I wasn't expecting to enjoy this one as much as I did her other time travels because of the fact that I usually like it better when it's a modern day heroine going backward  in time, rather than when the story's about a man from the far-away past  coming forward to the future.<br />Typically in romance, whenever someone from  the past comes forward, you get those kind of books that waste scene after  scene watching the time traveler freak out the first time they see a  lightbulb, and then a shower, and then a car, and god forbid if they see an  airplane. Then, of course, we know what's coming next...the hero will feel  obliged to take his sword to the offending modern conveniences. Microwaves  will be rendered useless, cars will be taken apart, furniture will be used  as kindling...&lt;sigh&gt; Scenes like these are funny *once*, then they  become a dead bore.<br />Hill shies away from this overdone scenario nicely,  yet in a way that still makes the hero come off as a believable time  traveler. After all, any time traveler would be bound to be somewhat in awe  of the gadgets of the future. Hill gives him the awe without hitting you  over the head with it.<br />This book was hilarious from start to finish and  quickly became one of my favorite Hills. Although I've enjoyed all of Hills  novels at a 4-5 star level (except for &quot;Love Me Tender&quot; and  &quot;The Reluctant Viking&quot;), the only other contender this book had  with me is &quot;The Love Potion&quot;. They are both irresistibly funny  and sexy, making it hard for me to decide which was better...	2000-06-07
US	50608542	RVAV4VDIU4BYZ	055357566X	418417772	Betrothed	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Okay...but not as good as Warlord and Scoundrel	I had to laugh when I read the other reviews...now I'm not certain if I liked this book less than Elliott's others because the storyline was weaker or because the hero on the cover looks like he's about fifteen years old.  Publishing companies need to be careful when they use cover art because  once you see what the hero allegedly looks like, it's hard to imagine him  as anyone else. In this case, that is not a good thing. He looks too much  like my little brother to be taken seriously as a medieval warlord.<br />I  found myself far more interested in the secondary character of Dante than I  did of the hero and heroine. Luckily Dante's book (The Assasin) is SUPPOSED  to be out soon. I use the word &quot;supposed&quot; loosely since Elliott  keeps pushing back the release date. I can only pray that the publishers  don't put a fifteen year old on The Assasin's cover...	2000-06-04
US	50608542	R1PKSZ39WH2081	0440204291	229530925	The Falcon and the Flower (Medieval Plantagenet Trilogy)	Books	4	25	28	N	N	3.75 stars	As is usually the case with Henley, I found this book to be compelling and intriguing. This author has a real talent for reeling me in and keeping my attention. However, as is the case with &quot;Enticed&quot;, I don't think  her publishers did her any favors by reprinting this 1989 novel. The  heroines in her earlier books are typically willfull, spoiled little brats  you can't stand reading about. <br />The heroine of &quot;The Falcon and the  Flower&quot; downright got on my nerves for over 2/3 of this book...no,  more like 4/5 of this book. I think Ms. Virginia was trying to make her  seem feisty, but she came off vastly different. She was an icy, mean,  spoiled little girl I couldn't stand. <br />The heroine got on my nerves so  bad that at one point I was actually routing for the hero's ex-mistress to  win him back. I have never wished that on any other heroine I've read to  date...that's tantamount to watching &quot;Jaws&quot; and routing for the  shark.<br />Another thing that disturbed me about this book was that there  were a couple of scenes in which the hero slapped the heroine.  Unfortunately, I disliked her so much that I didn't care...then I felt  guilty about that since I consider myself a feminist and abhor violence  against women!<br />If you are a major Henley fan, you will probably enjoy  this book at least somewhat. The book, with all its faults, was still quite  engaging. As long as you go into this knowing what to expect, it probably  won't be so bad. And as your reading, don't be surprised if you hear the  theme song to &quot;Jaws&quot; playing in the background of your mind...	2000-06-01
US	50608542	RSPNV44PN0JN6	0505523493	761063631	The Love Potion (Time of Your Life)	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Hilarious and Sexy	Dr. Silvie Fontaine and bad boy attorney Lucien LeDeux have never gotten along. They've had bad blood between them since childhood. But they've also carried an attraction for the other that neither of them will acknowledge  aloud. Enter into the equation &quot;the jelly bean fix&quot;--a new drug  Silvie is working on that has the physical implications of Viagra, while  simultaneously stimulating the emotions of the subject--and you have the  jist of this novel.<br />This is Hill at her wittiest and sexiest. The  dialogue was hilarious, the relationship between the hero and heroine was  intriguing, and the plot threw enough twists and turns to keep my  attention. This is the perfect lighthearted, romantic comedy to read if you  need a little pick-me-up.	2000-06-01
US	50608542	R1DJGWOXWMYHD4	0440222079	118071953	A Year and a Day (Medieval DeWarenne Trilogy)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	One of My Favorite Henleys	&quot;A Year and a Day&quot; is in my Henley top 3, along with &quot;Enslaved&quot; and &quot;Desired&quot;. It was sweet, sexy, and suspenseful all at the same time. The only problem some readers might have  with this book is that it is heavy on historical detail. Usually I don't  care for too much history (even in the historicals I read), but I didn't  mind it so much in this one since it dealt with one of my favorite time  periods, Robert the Bruce's Scotland and his rise to the throne. <br />The  hero and heroine in this book are more likeable, believable, and loveable  than in the majority of Henley's earlier novels. Their relationship  progressed wonderfully, the plot was engaging, and the dialogue was very  sexy. Even the relationship between the chief secondary characters was  intriguing. <br />If you're already a Henley fan, this book is a must have. If  you've never read her before, this is a great place to start.	2000-06-01
US	50608542	R17O71D5GZHUJP	0553578677	883049328	Legendary Lover	Books	3	12	14	N	N	Sex, Sex, and more Sex	Let me sum up the plot of this entire book for you: SEX.<br />An oversexed man and an oversexed woman meet and they have a lot of sex. And then they have more sex. And more. And more. And, let me think--yep--more. I never  thought I'd grow tired of reading about sex, but well, there you have  it...I did. <br />If you think I'm exaggerating, think again. This book was  page after page of nothing but sex with very little plot or dialogue in  between scenes. And of course, when there was actual dialogue, the hero and  heroine were usually having sex at the time. The most exciting part of the  entire book was when they got tired of having sex in the country, so they  boarded the heroine's boat to have sex at sea. It wasn't much, but at least  it was a change of scenery.<br />Still, I gave Johnson a three for a few  reasons: (1) she's a good writer, (2) unlike the majority of her books, the  hero and heroine remained faithful, even during their inevitable separation  toward the book's end, and (3) she does write good &quot;scenes&quot;--the  problem is that she just writes too many of them.<br />Johnson would be  incredible if she used her talent for the erotic in combination with the  culmination of an actual plot. As is, however, Ms. Johnson gives new  meaning to the phrase &quot;too much of a good thing&quot;.	2000-06-01
US	50608542	RLIOCEQM5HBW5	0380795124	962342023	Be My Baby	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Funny and Engaging	If you like authors like Susan Elizabeth Phillips, you will also like Susan Andersen. They write very similarly, with the major exception being that while Phillips' heroes are typically either football players or  golfers, Andersen's heroes are usually cops or something along that line.  <br />Between this book and Baby I'm Yours, Andersen has gone on my  &quot;automatic buy&quot; list. Her writing is marvelous and her characters  are very endearing. Overly macho heroes brought to heel by feisty (often  mismatched) heroines, hilarious dialogue, &amp; sizzling erotic  tension...you gotta love her  :)	2000-06-01
US	50608542	R2DTTFQ7PLM2B5	0440216516	79164443	A Basket of Wishes	Books	5	18	18	N	N	One of my all time favorites	This book has been sitting in my TBR (to-be-read) pile forever. I finally got around to reading it the other day and all I can say is WOW...it was that good. <br />&quot;Basket of Wishes&quot; has a very similar plot to Jill  Barnett's &quot;Bewitching&quot;, only Paisley's heroine was a faerie  instead of a witch. Paisley's version contains the same emotional,  tug-at-your-heartstrings scenes as Barnett's book as well. <br />But that's  where the similarities end. The stories were actually quite different even  though the themes of the novels were similar. And to Paisley's credit, I  even found &quot;Basket of Wishes&quot; funnier than I did  &quot;Bewitching&quot;. (I'm a huge Barnett fan so I don't concede that  easily!)<br />Give this book a try. It's a shame Paisley isn't more prolific  because I'm already eagerly anticipating her next novel and wondering how  long I'll have to wait to read it...	2000-05-29
US	50608542	R2CVRU8KIMID1F	0505523647	770728227	Once A Pirate	Books	3	6	20	N	Y	Pretty Good ... But a little Boring	Time travel romances are my favorite genre - I've read just about all of them. &quot;Once a Pirate&quot; was pretty good, especially considering this is Grant's first work, but it lacked a certain OOMPH.<br />This book  started out interesting and had a great ending, but the entire huge middle  portion was a little on the boring side. The hero and heroine were on a  boat...and on a boat...and on a boat...and on a boat. When they finally  made it to an island, the book is almost finished.<br />I don't know, maybe I  was expecting more because of the raving reviews on this book, but I ended  up glossing over a lot of the middle. After a while, I was hoping the boat  would sink or something just so they would have different scenery.<br />I have  to say, though, that this is Grant's first book. I think she shows a lot of  potential. She just needs to add a little more zest to the middle of the  book. A nice beginning is wonderful, a nice ending is terrific, and if she  adds some more flair to the middle, the sky will be the limit for this  writer.	2000-05-18
US	50608542	R1OFZUSOZ6KAG3	0821758578	967725120	The King's Pleasure (Zebra Books)	Books	3	89	103	N	N	An Okay Read	I'm not really sure what to make of Shannon Drake. After reading &quot;Beneath a Blood Red Moon&quot; I thought she was fabulous. After reading &quot;Blue Heaven, Black Knight&quot; I thought she was awful.  After reading &quot;The King's Pleasure&quot; I'm sort of leaning toward  the fact that she's a good writer, but she won't ever be one of my favorite  authors.<br />&quot;The King's Pleasure&quot; was well written. If you're a  history buff, you will no doubt love this book. I am not a history buff. I  think fans of historical romance fall into two different categories: those  who love rich, detailed accounts of history woven all throughout the novel,  and those of us who enjoy the setting but don't wish to read a dissertation  on medieval life. I am definitely of the latter group. I love the settings  provided by historical authors, but I don't care to read blow by blow  accounts of a particular battle any more than I would want a blow by blow  account of a modern battle while reading a contemporary novel. So I found  myself glossing over the majority of this book.<br />The next problem I had  with this novel was that the heroine was stubborn to the point of  ridiculousness (a common attribute of all Drake's heroines). Because of  some vague, obscure vow she made to her mother on her deathbed, she chose  to betray her husband and father repeatedly to keep it. Who would do this  in real life? It was too far-fetched and aggravating.<br />The last reason I  found this novel less than compelling was because I simply don't enjoy her  style of writing. Drake uses exclamation points after every other sentence  which, after awhile, has the same effect as writing all in caps throughout  the entire book. Exclamation points were used to the point of  ridiculousness. Even if the heroine was whispering, whatever she said  seemed to warrant an exclamation point to Drake's way of thinking. It got  to be too much.<br />If you enjoy Drake in general, you will probably love  this book. If you enjoy a lot of conflict between the hero and heroine and  tons and tons of &quot;rich, historical detail&quot; (a phrase used by  critics I've since come to steer clear of), you will like this book. If you  don't fall into the above categories, save your money.	2000-05-18
US	50608542	R19NVG7J7STJJZ	0440217008	77053886	Enticed (Island Books His ROM)	Books	2	26	30	N	N	My least favorite Henley	Ms. Henley is one of my top 10 authors, but that wasn't enough to make me like this book. I don't think the publisher did her any favors by reprinting this story from the early eighties.<br />Enticed is well written,  I'll give Henley that much. But then again, she hasn't written a book yet  that fails to intrigue me. The problem I had with this novel had nothing to  do with it lacking in interest, it's just that I found myself disliking  both the hero and the heroine immensely. What good is a romance if you  can't stand the people its written about?<br />The hero Patrick has many  chances to make Kitty his wife, but doesn't realize his feelings until  she's married to someone else. After that husband dies, he could marry her  again, but sets sail for America instead. The heroine, idiot that she was  through this entire ulcer-inducing epic, trots off to America to find him,  only to be thought a mulatto and sold into slavery &lt;sigh&gt;.<br />Kitty is  rescued by Charles, the man who is to become her next husband. The sad part  for the reader is that you actually WANT the heroine to stay with Charles  and to forget about Patrick. Charles is good looking, treats Kitty like a  queen, etc. But no, Henley is intent upon returning Kitty to Patrick, the  sorriest excuse for a hero Ms. Virginia's ever written.<br />To make a short  story perhaps too long, this is the only book I've read by Henley that I've  truly disliked. If you like romances with infidelities and selfish heroes  and heroines, you'll like this one too. If not, skip it. Try A Year and a  Day or Enslaved instead.	2000-05-18
US	50608542	R3MHKAWTVKQ3YS	0373079958	196687833	Saving Grace (Silhouette Intimate Moments, 995)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Emotional, Suspenseful Category Romance	Grace Solarez's 11-year-old daughter Marissa was killed in a drive-by shooting exactly one year ago from this night. Desperate to end the pain, Grace finds herself contemplating the taking of her own life. <br />Before  Grace attempts anything drastic, Fate intervenes and she finds herself  pulling a kidnapped 5-year-old girl out of a car about to explode. She  saves the girl's life, but leaves the scene before she can be asked any  questions by the authorities.<br />A week later, Jack Dugan stops at nothing  to find the woman who saved his daughter Emma's life. He isn't certain if  Grace was on the scene because she was a part of the kidnapping plot or if  she was simply a very brave, heroic woman who happened to be in the right  place at the right time. Either way, he owed her for saving Emma's  life.<br />This was an extremely well written category romance. In shorter  books such as these, either the character development or the plot or the  romance tends to suffer because of the constraining 250 pages given to the  author to work with. Ms. Thayne worked well within the limits and none of  the points of the book suffered. <br />The character development was beyond  excellent, the plot was engaging and suspenseful, and the relationship  between the hero and heroine was superbly written. &quot;Saving Grace&quot;  is a definite winner.	2000-05-17
US	50608542	R1Q5Q7UJYBQOEX	1551661489	899102169	Legacy	Books	3	10	12	N	N	Not bad but not her best	This 250-page story started out with a lot of potential, but fizzled about 2/3 of the way into the book. It would have been great if Krentz had written the murder-mystery angle a bit better. Instead, what the reader  gets is another of her Scooby Doo storylines that makes you roll your  eyes.<br />What do I mean by Scooby Doo? Think back to when you were a kid  watching that cartoon. Every show was a mystery of some sort and at the end  of it the villain would spill all of his evil plans to dominate the world  while holding &quot;the gang&quot; hostage. Krentz does the same thing. I  mean, how many criminals are really going to take the time to detail the  how and the why of their crimes to the victims? And how many victims will  care to drag the story out of their captors while at gunpoint? Most victims  would be more interested in survival than in assauging their  curiosity.<br />Another aspect of the book that became a major annoyance after  awhile was her overuse of exclamation points. Practically every other  sentence ended with an exclaimer. It got to be too much. It had the same  affect as writing in all caps.<br />No Krentz book is &quot;bad&quot; per se,  but this is one of her less noble efforts. I'd save this book for when you  are down to the nitty gritty and have absolutely nothing else left of hers  to read.	2000-05-17
US	50608542	RQ0YP240FMGAH	0671728571	983283407	Wildest Hearts: A Novel	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Excellent	This book was Krentz at her hilarious, witty best. Even the murder-mystery subplot (which is not Krentz's strong suit) was suspenseful and well written this time around.<br />The only complaint I have with this otherwise  stellar book is that the heroine was too understanding of the hero's  shortcomings. There were a couple of stunts he pulled that would have  caused any sane, independent woman to hightail it out of there.  Nevertheless, you can only get so mad at a Krentz heroine, because in the  end she always manages to bring the hero to heel.	2000-05-17
US	50608542	R13LON84HPP9ET	0843944153	913306603	Swept Away	Books	4	7	7	N	N	An Entertaining Anthology	&quot;A Most Wanted Man&quot; by Marilyn Campbell - Leanne Shepard needs some repair work done on her newly inherited home in Key West. When she hires an elderly handyman named Zachary Rush to help fix the place up, she  has no idea he's really a gorgeous, thirty-three year old fugitive in  disguise...<br />&quot;Love Sessions&quot; by Thea Devine - Leslie Gordon  tells herself that the only reason she's bidding on Hunter Devlin at the  charity bachelor auction is because a date with a celebrity like Hunter  will make a great article for the magazine she writes for. When their date  ends up in a secluded ski resort in St. Moritz, she isn't so sure of her  motives any longer...<br />&quot;Promise Me Pleasure&quot; by Connie Mason -  Stood up at the altar, Cara Brooks decides to take her scheduled honeymoon  cruise anyway. She soon discovers that getting ditched was to be the best  thing that ever happened to her...<br />This is an entertaining anthology to  read on a rainy day or while lying on the beach soaking up the sun. Nothing  heavy or complicated. Just a light, enjoyable read.	2000-05-17
US	50608542	R6S3SOFOYOI1T	0786223685	269200187	Captives of the Night (Five Star Standard Print Romance)	Books	4	27	31	N	N	Loretta Chase	Compte d'Esmond has desired Leila Beaumont forever, but has been unable to do anything about his feelings for the beautiful portrait painter because she's already married.  <br />Leila's faithless, drug-addicted husband is murdered and Leila finds herself accused of doing the dirty deed. She turns  to the powerful Compte d'Esmond for help and soon finds herself in a  passionate affair with the enigmatic aristocrat.<br />This is book 2 in the 4  book series. Book one (out of print) is The Lion's Daughter. Book three is  Lord of Scoundrels. Book four is The Last Hellion.<br />This novel is well  written and very passionate, but having read books 3 and 4 first, I found  it lacking in comparison. It doesn't have the humor and wit of three and  four. Still, the plot is well developed and the relationship between the  hero and heroine is intriguing. This is well worth the purchase.	2000-05-09
US	50608542	R37445VOS05FKP	1551664372	403584360	The Pirate	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Excellent	&quot;The Pirate&quot; (book one of three, followed by &quot;The Adventurer&quot; and &quot;The Cowboy&quot;) is a great short story. It was hilarious and witty, Krentz at her best. <br />The only thing some readers might find exasperating is that this is an older Krentz book, so the hero  was a little too alpha male at times. There were a couple of scenes in the  book where I mentally gritted my teeth at his behavior. <br />Nevertheless,  this entire trilogy is excellent, guaranteed entertainment. Buy them all  and read them in order!	2000-05-04
US	50608542	R37QX7ONXEGTL0	1551664623	911094461	The Adventurer	Books	5	10	14	N	N	A+	&quot;The Adventurer&quot; (book two of three following &quot;The Pirate&quot; and before &quot;The Cowboy&quot;) is a witty, entertaining read. The entire trilogy is Krentz at her best (humorous dialogue, primal attraction between hero and heroine, etc.)<br />If you're a Krentz fan, this  series is a must have. Buy all three and read them in order.	2000-05-04
US	50608542	R386O7E5GW8FBB	1551664941	1282817	The Cowboy	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Wow  : )~	&quot;The Cowboy&quot; (book three of three, after &quot;The Pirate&quot; and &quot;The Adventurer&quot;) is the best of this five-star trilogy. If you're planning to buy one, you might as well buy all three and read them in order. <br />As is the case with the other 2 books in this short story  series, the hero in &quot;The Cowboy&quot; can be exasperatingly alpha at  times, but he makes amends well enough to the heroine and some how Krentz -  as usual - pulls it off wonderfully. I wanted this last story to go on and  on well after the 246 pages were done!	2000-05-04
US	50608542	R250GMR2P9WUUK	0553100874	270984394	Wicked Widow	Books	3	15	16	N	N	Reads Like a Scooby Doo Mystery	I have been waiting to read this book for a year, so I was quite disappointed that it didn't live up to the expectation I was harboring. For the past few years, Jayne Anne Krentz's historicals (written as Amanda Quick) have been sadly lacking. The heroes are no longer titled, the  attraction between the heroes and heroines are no longer so ... I don't  know ... what's the word ...primal, maybe? And now Quick is placing more  emphasis on the mystery than on the relationship. Even then I'd have given  the book a 4 if the mystery didn't read like something straight out of a  Scooby Doo show. <br />Granted, Krentz/Quick is an author I'm more critical of  than others because she's so exceptionally talented. Nevertheless, her  historicals and contemporaries have both been missing that something  special lately that makes it worth paying for a hardcover. <br />My advice is  two-fold: (1) wait for the paperback and switch to her futuristics (under  the name Jayne Castle). Her futuristics are still 5+ stars.	2000-05-03
US	50608542	RJXXI82SY6VJ	0843944579	898489034	Love Me Tender (Leisure Romance)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Not her best	In some ways, this book was the Hill I know and love - humorous dialogue, sexy hero, sharp-tongued heroine. But in one very important way it was not Hill at all - the plot was too unbelievable. <br />Okay, okay, it's supposed to be a fairy tale. I could have bought that if she'd left it at that, but  she went from unbelievable to ludicrous with some of the sideshow  characters she threw in. (Elmer Prestley as a fairy godfather?) Yikes,  Sandra, what were you thinking! <br />Sandra Hill is a hilarious writer. If  you've never read her before, skip this one and start with another. Try  &quot;The Love Potion&quot; for a contemporary, &quot;The Last Viking&quot;  for a time travel, or &quot;The Tarnished Lady&quot; for a historical.	2000-04-30
US	50608542	R32O3CV6H1T471	0380782340	229000740	Nobody's Baby But Mine	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	excellent	This is the first book I read by SEP and I have been hooked on her ever since. This book was so funny and witty I can't count how many times I laughed out loud. Not only is this still my favorite SEP novel (and she has  many more great reads), this is one of my all time favorite books  period.<br />The heroine is your typical science nerd, the hero your typical  jock. Together they make the funniest, spunkiest couple I've read about in  a long, long time. This is a must read!	2000-04-29
US	50608542	RKQFKL8FTP7LM	0373194161	739820080	Plain Jane Marries The Boss	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Great Category Romance	Jane Miller has been in love with Trey Breckenridge III for years, but all along he has seen her as his reliable, sensible, trustworthy secretary and no more.  Times change when Trey needs to pretend he's engaged to prove to his father he has settled down in order to gain control of the  company.<br />Trey turns to ever efficient Jane for help and she agrees to the  masquerade, figuring it's as close to him as she's likely to ever get. But  Trey hadn't counted on what a little make-up and some good clothes would do  to Jane's appearance...<br />This is a very good catergory romance and is well  worth the read. It could have been better if the author wrote more detailed  love scenes, but the book is still a 5 without them.	2000-04-27
US	50608542	R1S41A3A3ZXCZR	038097536X	271652627	The Heir	Books	4	109	117	N	N	Syrupy Sweet	This book was a vast improvement upon Lindsey's last 2 books, but it was still missing something. I think she took the criticisms from her last book (&quot;Joining&quot;) to heart and went off to the extreme in the opposite  direction. We go from the constant tension, mistrust, and fighting of the  hero and heroine in &quot;Joining&quot; to a perfectly sweet and utterly  passionless relationship (until the end) between them in &quot;The  Heir&quot;. Give us some middle ground Johanna!<br />&quot;The Heir&quot;, a  sweet story about two friends who fall in love, but find themselves unable  to be together due to the hero being engaged to another, lacked the fire  and passion that is typical of Lindsey's characters. <br />This is an author  capable of putting out 5 star material, so I find myself more critical of  her than I would be had someone else written this. Still, Lindsey not at  her best is better than most at their top par performance. &quot;The  Heir&quot; is an okay one time read, but not the Lindsey book you will pull  off the shelf and read over and over again.	2000-04-25
US	50608542	R3BI5SESOFSRXP	0843946806	505494006	Sweet Revenge	Books	5	79	86	N	N	An Eye for an Eye, A Wife for a Wife	In keeping with her other books, &quot;Sweet Revenge&quot; encompassed all of the typical aspects found in a Sands novel ... romance, humor, wit, an interesting subplot, and a strong relationship between the hero and  heroine.<br />Laird Galen MacDonald's wife was murdered nine months past by  his nemesis, Laird MacGregor.  When Galen learns that the MacGregor plans  to take an English woman as a bride, he decides to get his revenge by  stealing her and marrying her himself. <br />Lady Kyla Forsythe, the English  bride in question, quickly realizes her feelings for the man who ambushed  her traveling party, captured her, and wedded her.  And above all else, is  grateful to him for stealing her away from the MacGregor, a man rumored to  have beaten his first wife to death.<br />The book was a trademark Lynsay  Sands in that it was witty and humorous throughout. She also wove an  interesting murder-mystery subplot throughout the novel to keep the book  well-paced. If you liked &quot;The Deed&quot;, you will love &quot;Sweet  Revenge&quot;.	2000-04-24
US	50608542	RHYMGZ12CLONO	050552337X	964607725	Rejar (Timeswept)	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Very Good Read	This second book in the Matrix series (the sequel to Knight of a Trillion Stars) was another great novel by Joy. The only reason I didn't give it 5 stars was because I read it immediately after I read the first book and the first book suits my taste in romances better. (It was funnier, the heroine  was spunkier.) Had I read them out of order and finished this one first, I  probably would have given this a 5.<br />Rejar is a great historical book  (very little of it takes place off-planet like Knight of a Trillion Stars)  and is worth the money.	2000-02-04
US	50608542	RFPQ2GCLKKPXI	0843944463	561149778	Mine to Take (Futuristic Romance)	Books	5	18	19	N	Y	If you know the guy on the cover, pleeez introduce me!	This is the third book in the futuristic Matrix series (the follow-up to Knight of a Trillion Stars and Rejar) and I absolutely loved it. I can't wait for Traed's story. <br />The book's hero, Gian, escapes from captivity with the heroine's help. He takes the heroine, Jenise, with him to his home  planet and the adventure they encounter en route was well written. The  different cultures, peoples, and planets they encounter while journeying  from A to Z were well developed and described by Dara Joy.<br />The only  &quot;disappointment&quot; I had with this book is that I felt like the  hero and heroine weren't well suited. The heroine sort of faded into the  woodwork against the character of Gian. Joy should have written a spunkier  leading lady (like the heroine in Knight of a Trillion Stars) for Gian.  Other than that, this was a great read.	2000-02-04
US	50608542	R3BG89ID25LI6X	0505522659	380256462	Knight of a Trillion Stars (Futuristic Romance)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Hilarious and Sexy	I absolutely love this book - it's one I'll read over and over again. Dara Joy did an excellent job of keeping the novel exciting, funny, sexy, and fast-paced. Unlike a lot of romance authors, she doesn't bore you with a  lot of unnecessary detail to skim over. When  detail is given in a Joy book, you know it will be a significant part of  the plot in either this book, or the other books in this series.<br />Dara Joy  also did a great job of expressing how a woman of our day would feel if she  suddenly found herself taken to another time/planet/dimension. Not to  mention how torn you would feel when faced with choosing between your home  and someone you've fallen in love with. And she manages to weave it  throughout an extremely hilarious dialogue.<br />This is the first novel in  the Matrix series. It helps if you read them in order. Follow this one up  with Rejar and then Mine to Take. More books are following - I definately  recommend this whole series!	2000-02-04
US	50608542	R2DEIUE2XW98LQ	0671047655	821025710	The Inscription (Sonnet Books)	Books	4	4	6	N	Y	Good Read	This was a very sweet story with well developed characters and an interesting plot. The only reason I didn't give it a five was because it wasn't as steamy as I prefer. (In my opinion, Lynn Kurland is the only  romance author who cranks out five stars without sex scenes and that's  because her books are humorous enough and emotional enough to  counterbalance it.)<br />This is the perfect book for someone looking for a  sweet story and/or for someone whose religious beliefs dictate that they  shouldn't read R or PG13 material. If, however, you prefer a little spice,  look elsewhere. To be honest, I read steamier novels in highschool Lit  class.	2000-01-31
US	50608542	R17H2CV8BKINIH	0440234808	281963481	Beyond the Highland Mist (Highlander, Book 1)	Books	3	173	189	N	N	Pretty Good But Slightly Disappointed	The book was well-written and started out with great sexual tension and humor. The major problem I had with this book is the same one I've had with quite a few books I've read lately: they start great, end great, but the entire huge middle portion is filled with exasperation and poor attempts at  trying to stretch out the inevitable sex scene with too many scenes where  the heroine begins to &quot;think clearly&quot; at the last minute.<br />The  heroine also takes her weariness of trusting a man too far, to the point  where she was hurtful and insulting to the hero, who treats her wonderfully  throughout the whole read. There were a couple scenes where she even  deliberately called the hero by another man's name in the heat of passion  in an effort to push him away. The first time, I was like, okay this might  make for great tension. By the second and third time, I disliked the  heroine immensely. She seemed too selfish and heartless for me to relate  to.<br />The book was well-written, I give the author that much. And if you  enjoy books where there is constant mistrust and outward conflict between  the hero and heroine, you will like this one too. My tastes run along  different lines, which is why I can't give it more than a 3.	2000-01-28
US	50608542	R7ZKT0MG0YKNT	0440217067	848489009	Enslaved	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Excellent	The best Henley I've read yet - very sexy, very steamy, great ORIGINAL plot (a rarity in romance), and great use of an underused historical backdrop (ancient England after falling to Rome).	2000-01-28
US	50608542	R23UH9GS8PNNSN	0821759825	279706841	Blue Heaven, Black Night	Books	2	24	26	N	N	Too Stressful	Boy was I disappointed! After reading &quot;Beneath a Blood Red Moon&quot; I thought I'd found a new author to collect. WRONG. I might read another of her books just to see if this one was a fluke, but I'm liable to be gun shy for a few months.<br />This book was one stress after another. It was one of  those overdone story lines in which the heroine obstinately refuses to  accept the fact that she has feelings for the hero. In fact, she's nice to  everyone but him. By the time she begins to come around (and this is three  quarters of the way to the end of a 500 and some odd paged novel), the hero  goes off to the crusades.<br />After she FINALLY accepts the fact that she  loves her husband, she goes to the holyland to try to find him. In the mean  time, he's &quot;slaked his lust&quot; with another woman, even though he  thought of his wife the whole time. (Pleeeez!)<br />When she gets to the  holyland, she is then abducted by an Arabian prince, thereby setting off an  entire new set of stressors. <br />I feel that the author was trying to use  all of this friction as sexual tension, but she missed her target  completely. Unless you like inflaming your ulcer, chances are you will find  this book stressful instead of sexually and romantically intense.<br />All of  this was stress was then woven throughout an incredibly slow-paced book  with way too much historical detail. I'd go sit in a history class if I  wanted a dissertation on medieval life. <br />Perhaps it's just me, but when I  read a romance, I want to feel good the whole way through. Reality provides  enough emotional rollercoasters. I give this two stars only because it was  well-written. Otherwise, this is a big thumbs down.	2000-01-28
US	50608542	R2UV48YENQRH8W	0425165140	658645588	Another Chance to Dream	Books	1	14	18	N	N	DEPRESSING	Every other Kurland book is a five-star, without a doubt. This is the one glaring exception. The book was depressing. Yeah, yeah, the characters end up together in the end but by then who should care? They've been through so  much at that point that you almost rather Kurland kill them off and allow  them to be done with their misery.<br />If you like depressing authors like  Danielle Steele then you will be in true nirvana with this sad tale.  Otherwise, skip this one and wait for Kurland's next one. Her other books  are so good that I'm convinced this is going to be a one-time mistake.   Hey, nobody's perfect.	1999-12-30
US	50608542	R2DYJMDPH5IWD9	0821762982	871813508	Beneath A Blood Red Moon (Zebra romantic suspense)	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Very Suspenseful	I'm not a big fan of vampire novels, but I truly enjoyed this one from start to finish. Trust me, I read romance novels daily - far too many really! - and I can honestly say that this is worth the money it goes for. The writing was suspenseful and sexy - two qualities that are a  must for me to read more than one book by an author. I will DEFINATELY be  reading this author again.END	1999-12-21
US	50608542	R1G38PWWS87ZBU	0373483767	58778009	The Mackenzie Family: Mackenzie's Pleasure and Mackenzie's Magic	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Excellent	In truth, Maris's story (the second one) sucks. It was rushed and didn't contain the dynamo sex scenes that most Howards have. HOWEVER, Zane's story more than makes up for what Maris's lacks. His story was Howard at her best  ... and if you're a Howard fan, you know how good she can be!<br />Also,  Chance is a figure in both stories. Since his book is due to be out in  August, Maris's story is worth reading because of the background it gives  you on this adopted - sexy - brother.	1999-12-21
US	50608542	R2MLBHTW4Q89N	0380774933	478056161	Keeper of the Heart (Ly-San-Ter Family)	Books	5	0	1	N	Y	lindsey at her best	This second book of her futuristic series is well worth the read. I hope she adds a third soon!	1999-12-06
