US	50605810	R3A7MW2HUF8853	0324233000	195781858	Ohio Real Estate Law	Books	5	3	5	N	N	need to use this edition which is completely updated	The only reason I am filing this review is that I want to correct a comment that is on this page (page reviewing the 8th edition of the book).  An old review of the book has been placed on this page erroneously.  It refers to the book's being out of date.  It is referring to a much earlier edition of the book and was reviewing that edition of it.  The book on this page is the latest edition, the 8th, published in August of 2004.  I just used it myself this fall term of 2004, and will be teaching from it again this winter semester of 2005.  It is completely updated.  You will discover that if you buy earlier editions, also for sale on amazon, that they are out of date.  I insist that my students use the 8th edition and made them return earlier ones. An out-of-date text is of little use in our classroom.	2005-01-04
US	50605810	R2XLWMVLHYVCC6	0764535900	450367590	Teach Yourself VISUALLY FrontPage 2002	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Ideal Starter Book	Once again, this is the best book out there if you are starting off with this program.  I now am using these texts as my standard start-off book whenever I decide to learn a new program. This book, like the other Maran texts, is filled with visual after visual, page after page, so that no matter how troublesome computers are for you, you will be able to follow along.  (My mother loves these books and she has been the hardest person to teach computers I've ever encountered.) If you are already a high tech person or already have used the program with some success, you probably can buy a more difficult book instead.  If you are a beginner, I think you better get used to the idea that you will be buying more than 1 book when you decide to really learn a program cold.  It is very rare to find one book that will &quot;do it&quot; for both beginners, intermediate and advanced users.  I will separately review the text I'd recommend for when you are ready to move on to something more difficult.  It too will be visual though as I think visually &quot;lite&quot; books are a mistake when it comes to learning computer programs.	2003-01-03
US	50605810	R34DY2C2V9PD7V	0553581503	54175040	The Cutout	Books	5	3	4	N	N	20 put-down books later a Winner Emerges	After I finished Judith Ivory's \\"Untie My Heart,\\" I started (and stopped) reading 20 other works of fiction.  I made it no further than page 50 in any of them.  It wasn't until this book that I was able to read a novel from start to finish.  The overwhelming reason I gave up on all those books was that they all sounded the same.  The plotlines had been done to death.  This is a spy novel written by a female CIA agent.  It features a female heroine.  She is married to an agent herself but there is a big difference between them.  She is an analyst (scours data) while he is out on the streets after people, very bad people.  She thinks she's been a widow the past few years because he was blown up by terrorists on a plane.<br /><br />However, there is an attack on the American Vice President in present day Germany and she (and the whole CIA) see her husband is one of the terrorists on the helicopter.  The terrorists take the Vice President hostage and from there we are off and running.  This is a very well crafted story that doesn't let up for an instant.  The only other book it reminds me of is John LeCarre's \\"Little Drummer Girl.\\" Le Carre's book is more literary and better developed in terms of characterization.  However, this novel is better than the Le Carre in terms of pace and suspense.  Alfred Hitchcock, were he alive, would be interested in the movie rights, I'm sure.  Read both.  You can't miss.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2002-12-30
US	50605810	R1MCG4NLCIQM21	0201784815	645059175	The Illustrator 10  Wow! Book	Books	5	29	30	N	N	Enormous Help for Learning Illustrator 10: Get This Book!	Drawing is challenging enough for me in the real world but it is a snap compared to doing it in a vector based computer art program.  Illustrator 10 is one such program and the one I am trying to learn. This book is the best one to use after  the very easy \\"Teach Yourself Visually: Illustrator 10 (Visual Read Less, Learn More\\" by Mike Wooldridge and Michael Toot book (which I've previously reviewed).  Steuer's Wow text is very visual with lots of graphics and color yet goes much deeper into the program than the Woolridge and Toot book.  Ironically, it is very difficult to find computer arts books which are visual, well laid out and with a colorful, graphical interface. The Wow books are filling that void very nicely.  This, like the \\"Photoshop Wow\\" book, is easy to read and well laid out.  This text also has a very good CD-ROM with it that is loaded with extra features and extra excercises.  The CD-ROMs that accompany these texts are the frosting on the cake. More and more art work by artists in the field using the program appear on the CD-ROM while the text visuals remain heavily \\"how-to.\\" Frankly, I find this book even more helpful than the actual tutorials I've watched in the college classroom in person and live. I highly recommend buying this book if you want to learn Illustrator 10. Author Sharon Steuer is a terrific teacher and her book makes it possible for all of us to take her \\"class\\".	2002-12-19
US	50605810	R1XHRTAA5JEZ9B	0380812975	523208550	Untie My Heart	Books	5	9	13	N	N	In a Word: Terrific	I must put down 9 out of every 10 books that I pick up to read nowadays. I've been a constant reader my entire life but in the past few years it seems that everything sounds the same and especially so in genre fiction.  What a delight it was then to discover Judith Ivory's strongest book since \\"Sleeping Beauty.\\"  I couldn't put it down and finished it in a day.  I can't tell you how long it has been since I've been able to say that about a book. First, she creates a love story between two wonderful characters, a young widow who is a Yorkshire sheep farmer who used to be a confidence game pro with her late husband, and the new Viscount, just returned from Russia to claim his title.  She sets the story in Victorian England, half of it in Yorkshire and the other half in London.<br /><br />She recreates this era wonderfully and I did not find the language anachronistic at all as one reviewer did.  Secondly, Ivory constructs a very compelling plot around the love story, involving the two leads being at loggerheads over a legal dispute and, eventually, coming together to foil his uncle after taking on one another in battle first.  You can't go wrong with any of Ivory's novels but I would especially recommend that you also secure \\"Sleeping Beauty\\" and \\"Black Silk\\". Plus, if you are willing to look for out-of-print books, I also loved her \\"Bliss\\" and \\"Dance\\" written under her real name of Judy Cuevas. I wasn't a huge fan of the two books Ivory wrote prior to this one but she certainly has sprung right back to the top with a solid A+.  Yes, this is considered a romance genre novel.  That is where you will find it shelved.  Believe me, if you think that means it is not well written, that is going to be your huge loss.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.y on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2002-11-19
US	50605810	RVO3NDENWYHEH	0525946535	26324951	One-Hit Wonder	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Knocks It Out of the Park with this Novel!	Much as I loved Lisa Jewell's \\"Ralph's Party,\\" this, her 3rd novel, is infinitely better.  I can even put my finger on what makes this novel so special.  It is the way Jewell captures the essence of unfinished issues between sisters.  Ana's sister Bee dies, a suicide no less, years after Ana last saw her.  Bee was a huge pop star at one point but could never move beyond her \\"one hit wonder.\\"  As Ana starts looking into Bee's life, she discovers that much more may have behind Bee's subsequent decline in life other than the failure to record a 2nd hit song.  She even discovers an adolescent boy who she initially suspects may have been Bee's son.<br /><br />However, Jewell takes no such easy resolution.  Thankfully, she spares us a secret baby plotline. Ana meets a wonderful cast of supporting characters in her quest, people who intersected with her late sister's life.  She also must resolve living within the confines of her agoraphobic mother's home and too much under her mother's influence. Moving into Bee's London apartment is her first big step to break that unwholesome situation.  Jewell is perhaps the brightest light among all the UK women writers who have distinguished themselves in the last few years in the fiction which has come to the USA.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2002-10-31
US	50605810	R2N6SGR6ZHMAOF	0764536540	150438532	Teach Yourself VISUALLY Illustrator? 10 (Visual Read Less, Learn More)	Books	5	42	47	N	N	I'd Be Lost Without Book; Don't Take Illustrator Without It	People told me Illustrator was easier to learn than Photoshop.  Were they wrong!  Or maybe they didn't know I'm bad at math because Illustrator is based on bezier curves, vector shapes, math and geometry.  It is about as different from Photoshop as a program can be except that they look the same when you first open them up.  Just try &quot;drawing&quot; (and I use that word loosely) a curve in Illustrator with the pen tool and you will instantly recall everything you ever hated about high school math.  However, if you loved math, this may be YOUR program.  This book deserves 5 stars simply because I would be utterly lost without it.  I'm taking Illustrator Part II right now at the college where I teach and I still can't move off this book and into a more complex text.  I tried moving into the Adobe Classroom in a Book and very quickly found myself unable to do anything in the exercises.  I am learning this program very, very slowly and I need an extremely visual, full color approach that spells out every step to me, skipping nothing, assuming nothing.  This book does that.  I'm very slowly improving in the program.  I used it in taking Illustrator Part I (it was not the required text which I didn't even buy) and got an A in the first course yet I still can't move into a more complex book.  In this course I have to make an entire calendar for 2003, draw it, and I hope to have this book mastered by the end of it and then, finally, move onto a more complex text.  I'm not counting on it though.	2002-10-27
US	50605810	RWTGQWET337TE	0321115627	532989911	Adobe Photoshop 7.0 Classroom in a Book	Books	5	35	40	N	N	Adobe Has a 5 star version of this product	Adobe makes materials available online to educators that turn this into a 5 star product. Specifically, it has the whole classroom in a book offered in FULL COLOR ONLINE in PDF format that you read on Acrobat Reader 5. There is nothing like being able to look at this material on my 21\\" screen on my computer monitor in full and complete color and then simply drop down to my taskbar, click on my photoshop button and go there to do what adobe has just given me as an instruction. If you are disciplined, this is an incredibly effective way to learn Photoshop. There is no awkard handling of a physical book to get in your way either. Of course, you need the CD-ROM that goes with the book because that has all the images on it that you need to do the lessons. So what Adobe needs to do is somehow bundle together the CD-ROM, the book and the online PDF version and sell all 3 to the consumer in one bundle. Perhaps one solution would be to produce the physical book in a more economical way as the student will be using it to primarily review text after a long session on the computer monitor. Or perhaps it should sell the PDF and the CD-ROM together and skip the book altogether. If you buy the product as is, it is not 5 stars. It is 4 stars because of the serious problem of all the lessons being shown to you in black and white. Adobe, the leader in image software, does have the perfect learning product for you with Photoshop 7 Classroom in a Book if it only repackages its materials for the consumer. I recommend that you contact Adobe online and ask that it make the PDF version available too. If enough people do so, I think this product will eventually be rebundled.	2002-10-14
US	50605810	R1UOH64SYCMFXW	0312284683	347731978	Faking It	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Call it a B+, ahead of all her hardbacks	I'd given up on this author several hardbacks ago.  She started her career as a romance writer for Harlequin and was known for short, snappy, witty romances.  Her work with Harlequin was all quite good.  Then she converted to hardback fiction writing with a mainstream publisher.  She still wrote romances but they were no longer short and snappy or even particularly witty.  Even worse, there was always a murder tossed in so the publisher could tout her as a mystery suspense writer, an abysmal idea.  With this book, she is gaining her own voice again rather than echoing the publisher's ideas of what is marketable writing.  It is a screwball romance comedy reminding me of \\"Arsenic and Old Lace,\\" an early Cary Grant & Frank Capra movie.  The most important thing she gets right is that the heroine is an artist from a family of artists.  Some readers are put off by these characters as being too weird to be real.<br /><br />Being an artist myself, let me assure you, these art types are absolutely authentic.  The male half of the equation is men, and especially one man, Davy, who are con artists or thieves.  They have been lured into being law enforcement consultants because they were so good on the wrong side of the law.  Everyone is involved in some fashion with a woman who is temporarily in Columbus acquiring art and, perhaps, another wealthy art patron husband.  She is suspect as a murderess, arsonist and thief but really she is just the plot mcguffin for everyone else in the novel. Crusie brings them all together in German Village, an artsy community in Columbus, Ohio, and lets them live in the same gallery building as they plot to foil the villainous woman.  I enjoyed it a lot.  I can't say it is great fiction.  However, if you are looking for a good screwball romantic comedy, this will provide several nights of good entertainment.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.ry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2002-10-04
US	50605810	RIAUNU4NMZHU3	0735712417	16076204	Inside Photoshop 7	Books	4	19	19	N	N	Call it a B+, ahead of Adobe's Classroom in A Book	I can't quite go the whole 5 stars on this.  The reason is that as an artist, I really do appreciate a colorful, extremely visual book on this kind of subject.  This book is more in line with a traditional textbook.  The text is almost entirely delivered in black and white but there is a CD-ROM to liven things up.  This text's main ace in the hole though is that it is extremely well written while having a TON of information you will need for in depth penetration into this most complex program.  If that is what you need, this is the book.  I notice it is sold at my college as a reference work.  I think it would work extremely well as a text, much better than &quot;Visual Quick Start to Photoshop&quot; used by my college (absolutely terrible) and better even than Adobe's own &quot;Classroom In a Book&quot; (previously reviewed).  If I were just starting Photoshop, I would start with the &quot;Learn Photoshop Visually Book&quot; (previously reviewed) and then I'd use as my main 2 books, to go deeper into the program, the &quot;Photoshop Wow&quot; book (previously reviewed) and this book. I believe that you could go awfully far with these 3 books, these latter two having CD-ROMs to aid you.  I also can't recommend highly enough that you add onto having these 3 books, signing up at the free Online Adobe Expert Center for free online tutorials and the fabulous free online users' forum.  I've picked up some tips at the users' forum that are in no book.  I consider &quot;Classroom in a Book&quot; optional to these others but worth having if your budget allows.  Another fabulous resource is the Photoshop magazine, fully visual, in full color, with full tutorials.  I buy mine at Borders but really should subscribe to it. I suppose a text that looked like this magazine is out of the question due to prohibitive color reproduction cost.  Too bad as that would really be something.	2002-08-29
US	50605810	R1AYL25KZ4PASS	0201722089	1139745	The Photoshop 6 WOW! Book	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Finally, a 5 star Photoshop Book	I've reviewed quite a few other Photoshop books and they've all come up short.  However, I think this one goes the distance.  It has a ton of color photographs which, for a change, are not other people's art work but are parts of the lessons, thankfully.  For an art program that explodes with color (Photoshop), it is nice to see a book that does the same. The visuals showing you how-to operate Photoshop are simply first rate.  Next, the book is well laid out, not jam packed together in an unreadable, overwhelming style or format. Third, there is a CD-ROM that goes with it to further amplify the material. Finally, it is well written yet stays with the task at hand.  The authors do not annoy you with misplaced humor and witticisms throughout. Maybe there is a better book out there than this one but I've not run into it if there is.  A word of caution: buy this new before accepting a used one that is missing the CD-ROM. I bought it new for this reason.  I wish I had discovered this book first instead of after buying 5 other ones.  I could have saved myself a lot of money.	2002-08-11
US	50605810	R1OKMGJFSPM2XA	0201713098	278789139	Photoshop 6 for Windows & Macintosh	Books	2	4	4	N	N	Not For Beginners; Black&White, Crowded Format a Problem Too	So far this is the Photoshop book I'd tell you to buy last after my buying 5 different ones.  It is the one in use in my college level course and I think they should use just about anything else.  Its biggest problem is that it is just too complicated for a beginner to use.  It throws an enormous amount of material before you.(That is the effect it has upon you as a student--data being dumped on you en masse)  Hours later into reading it, you are no better off than when you started.  It is also in black and white and every single page is jam packed with material.  This off-putting visual style/format is no aid to learning either.  Now that I'm steadily improving in Photoshop, I hope I am able to occasionally open this book and learn something I haven't gleaned elsewhere so as to get my [money] out of it.  I have yet to be able to do this though.  I can't really recommend buying this book and I think colleges should stop requiring it as the text.	2002-07-02
US	50605810	RPEG02U2T6MC8	0764535137	134725272	Teach Yourself VISUALLY Photoshop 6	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Best Book To Start Off With Using Photoshop	This is another one of my 5 Photoshop books that I bought for my Introductory course to the program.  It helped me a great deal when I was starting out and needed to learn everything.  The visuals are great.  There isn't much text to bog you down.  Everything is in full color.  The one and only problem is that when you exhaust what this book can do for you, you will still need to learn a lot more in order to fully implement Photoshop.  If you are a beginner, buy this book first and realize that you will have to buy another book as soon as you are done with it.  You might also supplement this book adequately with online tutorials and Photoshop Magazine.  If your goals are modest in Photoshop, then this book may do it all for you.  My goals, being an artist and using it, were not modest.	2002-07-02
US	50605810	R8CQGOEVAWSZV	0425183017	196239644	The Spiral Path	Books	5	2	2	N	N	I Need to Make A Distinction	I'm having a heck of a time grading this.  The only way I can resolve it is to tell you that I think if you are a romance reader, you will probably find this a 5 star novel. However, if you are more of a mainstream fiction reader, you may find it only a four star novel.  Non-romance readers might find this novel just a bit too pat, predictible and divorced from reality.  The story involves 2 Hollywood movie stars, Raine and Kenzie, who are married but about to divorce because of his infidelity.<br /><br />However, Raine wants to try directing and the only way she can is if she can get her husband, Kenzie, to star in it.  Reluctantly, he agrees but the part cuts a bit too close to his own hidden personal life for comfort.  The rest of the story is played out against their making of this movie and the overriding question of whether they can resurrect their marriage in the process.  I enjoyed it tremendously but it stretches credibility and probability to the utmost. Perfect to take to the beach, on vacation, or onto your family room sofa, if you are tired and need a great escapist read though.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2002-07-02
US	50605810	R26B5NEEWQR979	0201710161	478299791	Adobe Photoshop 6.0 Classroom in a Book	Books	4	32	34	N	Y	CD-ROM with images Accompanying Book Big Plus	I don't think there is a 5 star book on Photoshop. That could be because no one book could possibly do justice to the whole of Photoshop so the books have to pick and choose where to put emphasis. I teach at a community college in an area different from this. I am taking the Photoshop course there and the book we are using is packed with so much information that I've found it worthless as a starting text, although now that I am getting the hang of Photoshop even it is useful. I now own 5 Photoshop books and they all do different things. This one's plusses are, in order: the images on the CD-ROM to do your lessons with that are in the book; the simple, straight forward style on an unjumbled, uncrowded page format and a logical, orderly way of proceeding and learning.  Photoshop is considered a really tough program so I am not surprised that one book does not do it all. I would say if you are going to get more than one book, make this one of them. If you are only going to buy one Photoshop book, I honestly don't know what to recommend to you. It might be better to tackle the lessons in online tutorials in that case. The Photoshop Magazine is also excellent and better than all the books combined because it is chocked full of all color visual tutorials, every single page.	2002-07-02
US	50605810	R39E8DR5I4RUTH	0201745801	432844683	The Little Mac Book (7th Edition)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	As Windows/PC User, Learned a Mac with this in 2 Saturdays	I had to learn how to run a Mac in order to take my Photoshop course.  As a PC/Windows user for years, I wasn't looking forward to it.  The class ran for only 2 Saturdays but with reading this book inbetween the 2 sessions, I was running the Mac like a champ on the 2nd Saturday and have been using it to create art work in my Photoshop course ever since.  This compact book is a real gem and it is rightfully being used with students in beginning Mac courses.  You can't miss with buying this baby!	2002-07-02
US	50605810	R1KX1N3HATX7GX	0066211220	602976816	Breathing Room: A Novel	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Mines Territory She's Done Better but still Entertains	Phillips covered the whole movie star scene much better in her classic, \\"Honey Moon.\\"  She also had a movie star play out scenes  with his lover in \\"Glitter Baby.\\"  She's had the heroine stopped by the police before so the hero can buy some time with her in \\"Heaven, Texas.\\"  She's done all this but she still writes an entertaining romance novel and \\"Breathing Room\\" is a solid \\"B\\" book.<br /><br />Where she should have pulled out all the stops was with the comedic possibilities of her baseline idea of a Self Help Shrink known the world over through her books romanced by the world's leading villainous actor.  Instead, she plays it a little too straight and gets mired down in some subplots involving his ex-wife and their setting in Italy, both of which I could have done without.  Lorenzo Gage, the hero, however, is on a par with Phillips' best heroes, Bobby Tom, Cal, Kevin, Dan, Eric, et al, and she hit an \\"A\\" with him.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2002-07-02
US	50605810	R1A62B377TCNDZ	0764507044	740394377	Photoshop 6 For Dummies	Books	3	12	13	N	Y	Author Stars In Another Medium; not this one	I do not care for this Dummies' approach to Photoshop at all.  It is very non-visual and it is laced heavily throughout with attempts at humor, all of which should have been editied out of the book.  However, I've discovered that this author's, McClelland's, strength is not here but in the videotape series he does for Adobe, some of which can be seen online at Adobe's main site.  I've taken some of his tutorials there and they are excellent and extremely visual.  My guess is that he got locked into this Dummies' book format, which may have worked for another topic, but does not work for learning the most visual graphics program in the computer world. Bypass this product and investigate this author in other, visual media he uses for teaching you Photoshop instead.	2002-07-02
US	50605810	R3HLBEZUBRL3T7	0812568834	749199652	The Quantum Rose (The Saga of the Skolian Empire)	Books	5	5	10	N	N	Boy, Did This Break My Fiction Doldrums!	Thank you Catherine Asaro for breaking my doldrums in fiction reading.  I've been deploring the scarcity of good novels in the romance genre and many books in the sci-fi-fantasy genre are just too weird to work as an alternate genre.  Thankfully, this isn't weird.  I also loved Asaro's \\"Veiled Web\\" which was not a Skolian Empire book.  This one is a Skolian book and it is my first of those.  That I am reading them out of order seems to make no difference.  Asaro grabs me right from the beginning by introducing me to the heroine, who seems to be right out of a medieval novel and consigned to living in a culture that is that primitive.  But lo and behold, she lives in the future and the man who rents a palace from her on her world is from an advanced culture that's knowledge is way ahead of where we are now.  She marries this man in an arranged marriage, breaking her engagement to another who will give this couple lots of problems.<br /><br /> Just one contrast between the two characters' worlds is that the medical treatment she is used to receiving is that of a medieval herbalist whereas the medical treatment he receives, from the doctor stationed with him, involves his skin regenerating over a wound in hours. Her culture is also very passive and seems on its way to extinction which his is not.  Asaro's knowledge and training (PhD in hard science) pay off here big time as she can write very well layered fiction yet she is also able to pack emotion into page after page, something often missing from a male sci-fi author's work.  A friend told me this just won the Nebula award and I'm not surprised. I am not a science person and she did not lose me with the science in her novel.  There are many plot twists along the way but at heart this story never departs from being a love story about the two lead characters. I'm happy with that.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2002-06-04
US	50605810	R21S2SP1HCU7J0	0440509238	201081948	Spin Cycle	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Another Brit Chick Lit; Good Entertainment, Not a Keeper	I've either read a ton of these Brit Chick Lit books or it is beginning to seem like it to me.  They all resemble \\"Bridget Jones's Diary,\\" which I loved, but there is a similarity to these books that is now wearing me down.  The books are called Brit Chick Lit over at the All About Romance website so this is not my own terminology for the phenomenon.  They are all somewhat comedic, romance based fiction books written by women authors in the UK.  This book does not mine any new riches in this genre but I enjoyed it and it was a fun read. Once. The heroine is a stand-up comic trying to break into television.<br /><br />The most comic part of the book, which may have pushed it to 5 stars had it been pursued, was the heroine's engagement to a dentist.  The dentist was an absolute scream, a Type A who runs his life according to a regime that John Cleese would make hay with in the movie role.  Unfortunately, he is sent to South Africa for most of the book. The characters are all likable and there is a good romance between the washing machine repair man-entrepreneur and the heroine. It is pretty much forgettable though as soon as you are done with it.  Stressed out and female?  This may be worth an evening or afternoon of your time.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2002-03-25
US	50605810	R3G9ESCT20XV8P	0812545397	690733690	The Shadow of Albion (Carolus Rex, Book 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Carla Kelly & now Norton & Edghill Keeping the Regency Alive	The regency romance is in a state of decline except for some huge talents who are managing to breathe new life into it.  This literary form was begun by Jane Austen with \\"Pride & Prejudice.\\" Carla Kelly is one of the huge talents making this genre worth pursing and the second can be found on the sci-fi-fantasy book aisle with authors Andre Norton (a woman) and Rosemary Edghill.  Edghill was formerly known as a romance writer whereas Norton has always been in sci-fi-fantasy. This duo creates an alternate regency world that is absolutely fascinating.<br /><br />In this world, there is never a Revolutionary War, the Indians are not abused in America, slavery is abolished because of England's opposition to it and England remains in power and control.  This all came about because the English throne never passes to the German line but remains with the Stuarts in this alternate regency world.  This world also allows sorcerers and magicians and makes that a big part of accepted life.  Two love stories are played out against this new world.  One is between colonial Sarah with the English Duke of Wessex and the other is between Louis, the lost King of France (dauphin) and Mariel.  Some readers felt that \\"Leopard in Exile,\\" the sequel to this book, was not as good.  I think the story only got better as we moved into the second book. If you need rejuvenation in the wide world of the regency romance, you will find it here.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2002-03-17
US	50605810	R2B61WPHU45BQJ	0870744623	166323663	Bombshell	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Probably the Best Novel I've Read in a Decade	Liza Wieland is an incredible writing talent.  She is also a creative writing teacher in a California college and no one need apply the old adage to her about \\"those who can't do, teach.\\"  In fact, I'm really sad that she can't devote 100% of her time to writing.  She only has one other novel out, which I promptly ordered.  She has some short story collections too.  She only has this one novel carried by my public library, which is unusual, as it carries just about everything.  All I can say is, thank God for university presses or I guess this wouldn't have seen the light of day.  Why was it deemed so non-commercial?  Well, it is intelligent and I guess in most media and the arts that puts you in the hole. If you don't want to think, don't want to marvel over certain passages and reread them to fully appreciate them, this may not be for you, especially if you don't like gorgeous, beautiful, virtually poetic prose.  If all you like is steamroller straight ahead plot driven fiction, she is not solely concerned with satisfying that reader need.<br /><br />What she does do is create one heck of a story and a cast of characters out of her imagination using one fact from the real world.  That fact is that she pretends that the father in the story, who is living like a hermit in the mountains outside of Santa Fe, is the unabomber and that his family members, just like the real life unabomber, are going to be the ones who have to bring him to account.  In real life, his brother turned him in to the law.  In this account, his daughter is brought into the dilemma by her stepbrother, who is convinced her father is the unabomber and wants her help bringing him in. Jane, the daughter, is a gorgeous young woman, also brilliant like her father, who alternates between being a stripper in Las Vegas and a dance teacher for children, first in California and then in New Mexico.<br /><br />Her stepbrother is a teacher and her father was a math professor at the University of California but has lived as a hermit for years.  The story is told from shifting points of view and the most chilling narrative is the father's as you are inside his mind and able to see the brilliance and madness in there first hand.  This is a very moving, very touching book, which takes bends in the road in fiction that are wholly unpredictible and an utter delight. The father's relationship with his late twin brother, killed in the Vietnam War, is just one other nuance to the father's story that incredibly richens it.  There is a romantic element for Jane's part of the story, an extremely ironic but satisfying one.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.as a hermit for years.  The story is told from shifting points of view and the most chilling narrative is the father's as you are inside his mind and able to see the brilliance and madness in there first hand.  This is a very moving, very touching book, which takes bends in the road in fiction that are wholly unpredictible and an utter delight. The father's relationship with his late twin brother, killed in the Vietnam War, is just one other nuance to the father's story that incredibly richens it.  There is a romantic element for Jane's part of the story, an extremely ironic but satisfying one.    Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2002-03-11
US	50605810	RD23EBV70WX49	0061013870	541195678	Please Remember This	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Why Isn't She A Star?	Maybe Seidel has just never been promoted sufficiently by her publisher.  That's the only reason I can come up with for why she is such a well kept secret from readers.  I discovered her by word-of-mouth online from a big reader in Texas, Kitty, and have read everything since then that Seidel pens.  I even found her out-of-print books and bought and read those. Her books are fairly quiet.  There are no murders to solve, for example, as there are in seemingly the vast majority of today's fiction. So she makes up for it by coming up with highly original plots and characterizations. This novel is set in Kansas and involves a young woman who is the daughter of a famous, dead, counter culture author. Her mother is still so read and revered that her fans congregate together to worship her work in her writing situs in Kansas.  The daughter wants no part of this adulation, especially since her mother was a suicide when she was just a newborn.<br /><br />Obtaining at long last though a financial settlement from her mother's publisher, she sets up a business in that very small town and comes into the lives of its permanent residents.  The other main character is a young man who is digging up a boat that went down a century earlier.  It carried cargo from all of their families.  A local historical society is being formed by his brother for this excavation's results.  The brother isn't being altruistic.  The town needs a major shot in the arm for economic rejuvenation.  I found this so absorbing that I could not put it down.  Plus it was set in a very different yet fascinating locale with a splendid, believable romance at its center involving the two lead characters.  You can't go wrong discovering Seidel if she's been kept a secret from you too.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2002-02-12
US	50605810	R1IIHQ2DOZEE6V	0345445651	153066513	No Place Like Home	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Samuels' Breakout Novel Into Genre Blended Fiction	Barbara Samuels is probably known solely to romance readers under both that name and her pen name of Ruth Wind. She's had a loyal following for years led by Ellen Michelletti over at All About Romance. Ellen has kept after me for years about this author's ability as a writer and, although I thought Samuels was very good, I never thought she had the star potential Ellen did. Well, I was wrong and Ellen was right and this novel is the proof. (Ellen also proved me wrong on author Carla Kelly so I think I may be done arguing with Ellen over writers.) I think what Samuels does here that catapaults her into worthy consideration for all fiction readers is her adoption of a first person narrative voice. Prior to this, she always used third person. First person lets Samuels impart a heck of an emotional wallop with her work. Her character is Jewel Sabatino, from a Sicilian family in Pueblo, Colorado, who has been estranged from her father for two decades because of her running away with a musician while she was a senior in high school. She returns to Pueblo with her best friend Michael, who is dying of AIDS, her 17 year old son, Sean, by the musician (who died of a drug overdose as predicted by her father) and is joined by Michael's brother, Malachi, who becomes her love interest.<br /><br />The strong lead character throughout is Jewel and the conflicts, thoughts and tensions in her life are rendered perfectly. She also deals with her reflections over her mistakes from the past and the hand she has left to play in life on the other side of forty. That her body is no longer what it was and that she has to jump start a career are real world concerns well handled. The thoughts Jewel has throughout are so universal to contemporary women that you will think Samuels is transcribing your own thoughts. A source of considerable conflict throughout for several key characters including Jewel is what to do about internalized conflicts with parents, how to resolve them and get on with one's life so that one doesn't keep just replaying that early melodrama as one's entire life. Talk about a rich field to mine in writing! I think Samuels has hit upon a huge vein there that resonates with the reading public. Patricia Gaffney is another author who moved into fiction from romance. Gaffney wrote/writes superbly in both. I think Samuels is in a class with Gaffney. I think both of them are a million times better than Barbara Delinksy or Sandra Brown, who broke out of the romance genre years earlier and are now huge bestselling fiction authors. I also prefer Samuels and Gaffney to Nora Roberts, who remains in the romance genre as an enormous bestselling author. One final note: being from an Italian Catholic heritage myself I give Samuels credit for faithfully capturing that American subculture, both the feminine and masculine parts of it. I assume it must be her own heritage for her to have caught it this perfectly.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.fe so that one doesn't keep just replaying that early melodrama as one's entire life. Talk about a rich field to mine in writing! I think Samuels has hit upon a huge vein there that resonates with the reading public. Patricia Gaffney is another author who moved into fiction from romance. Gaffney wrote/writes superbly in both. I think Samuels is in a class with Gaffney. I think both of them are a million times better than Barbara Delinksy or Sandra Brown, who broke out of the romance genre years earlier and are now huge bestselling fiction authors. I also prefer Samuels and Gaffney to Nora Roberts, who remains in the romance genre as an enormous bestselling author. One final note: being from an Italian Catholic heritage myself I give Samuels credit for faithfully capturing that American subculture, both the feminine and masculine parts of it. I assume it must be her own heritage for her to have caught it this perfectly.    Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2002-02-04
US	50605810	R18PI81ILFPN3Q	0385502761	841891973	Look at Me	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Ambitious, Original but Does Not Fully Come Together	There is a lot to admire and enjoy in this novel but by the end of it, I felt Egan could have stood to focus more on one thing that she wanted to accomplish.  I felt unsatisfied by novel's end, although I enjoyed a lot of the literary journey of getting there.  I suspect that a key problem is that she's just got too many main characters and that diffuses the impact of any novel. The overriding plot is about model Charlotte, who is in a car crash which requires her face to be rebuilt.  She needs to rebuild her career and is reinvented by movers and shakers as a curiousity for the internet.  That's quite an original premise and I followed the developments of this story line avidly.  However, I was also following the story line of Moose, her former best friend's brother who is a college teacher just a small space away from psychosis.<br /><br />Moose's story is also original, about a former high school jock and heart throb who becomes the Nutty Professor and almost blows up his students in an assignment.  Then there is another Charlotte, a teenager, connected to both the first Charlotte and Moose, who has an affair with the man who was in the car during the crash.  And there is an alcoholic private detective who is investigating that man and model Charlotte.  If Egan were any less skilled or inventive, this novel would be a total mess.  Most authors would just sink with this much convoluted plot and characterization going on.  Egan, however, is so ambitious, daring and original, that she comes very close to pulling the whole thing off.  I think what she might have done here to achieve 5 star status is simply write two novels instead of one and then focus laser-like concentration upon half of these characters in one and the other half in the other.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2002-02-04
US	50605810	R2QP7LWJZN9WW7	0446608890	194746957	Saving Faith	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Blended Genre Novel: Romance with Thriller	If Baldacci were a woman writer, you probably would find this novel categorized as romantic suspense.  Ironically,although he is known as a thriller writer, in this novel he succeeds better with the romantic aspects.  The plot line you've seen before.  The FBI is interviewing and protecting a witness, Faith, when all of a sudden, she almost gets killed and her protector agent does get killed.  She is saved by a private investigator who becomes her love interest. They keep one step ahead of both the FBI and CIA.  The FBI wants them alive but a honcho at the CIA wants them dead. This CIA man is such a cliche in every respect as a villain that he almost ruins the book.  Nonetheless, this novel moves right along and is diverting entertainment that you will forget as soon as you read the last page.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2002-02-04
US	50605810	R1JI31H39QUYKL	0446525804	472682750	Last Man Standing	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Very Solid and Involving Novel in Thriller Genre	I haven't read a thriller novel in awhile and this one was quite good. I also hadn't read a novel by this author since his \\"Absolute Power,\\" which also was a good novel. \\"Last Man Standing\\" is better than \\"Absolute Power.\\" Baldacci is best at moving a story right along and he doesn't fall down on the job here. The basic plotline is straightforward. An FBI agent in an elite unit is the only one to survive a shootout in an alley. The only reason he survived is that something caused him to freeze and fall down. It's back to the FBI approved psychiatrist for him and the woman shrink he gets this time starts making remarkable progress into uncovering the secrets of his early life, much more progress than her predecessor shrink in the same clinic.<br /><br />The powers that be are not pleased with all of her progress, in fact. Also, all hell is breaking lose after the shootout, with more killings that tie into a failed mission by the elite unit. This is very plot driven fiction, which is true of most bestsellers. It could have stood more character development. You also are not going to read this novel for gorgeous writing style because plot driven fiction does not take the time to develop literary fine points. But this is great entertainment and that is all many readers are looking for in a novel. I couldn't take a steady diet of this type of novel but as an occasional read, the genre and this novel in particular certainly have their moments.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2002-01-01
US	50605810	R23IEUOI0ZTEXS	0451204824	289469658	One Good Turn (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Carla Kelly Rescues Romance Genre in 2001	It has been a bad year for me for finding good romance novels. Typically, I make it 100 pages into one and find the book so unbelievable that I pack it in. Kelly's book delivers all the way though. If possible, she tops herself, and renders a solid A or A+ romance novel. \\"One Good Turn,\\" contains not a single clich&eacute; and that is a rarity indeed in romance publishing 2001. Jane Austen would certainly be glad to see Kelly carrying on her legacy. I suspect that she might be horrified to see some of the products which emerged in 2001 from her kicking off things with P&P, however. I know I am. Although Kelly typically does not write about dukes and earls, she does so in this novel. Nez is a duke who fought during the Napoleonic Wars in Spain. Although he has his own problems recovering from those battles and decisions, his woe is nothing compared to a woman and her son that he meets one night when a carriage breaks down.<br /><br />This is Liria and she is a survivor of a Spanish town that the English looted, pillaged and rapined after finally bringing the French partisan town down. Nez was one of the officers in that siege. Kelly's publisher also brought out two earlier books of hers, \\"Libby's London Merchant\\" and \\"Miss Chartley's Guided Tour.\\" Those novels have been selling for $10-$20 apiece in online auctions used before this reissue, the demand for Kelly's work was so high. My advice is to snap up all 3 of these books at once. I think many readers may enjoy reading the books back to back. Of the 3 Kelly books available right now, I'd recommend reading them in this order: \\"Libby's London Merchant,\\" \\"One Good Turn,\\" and \\"Miss Chartley's Guided Tour.\\" I think the readerholic could have a heck of a reading weekend with this trio of books. I was not planning on voting in the All About Romance website romance novel poll this year but Kelly's book changed my mind, if only because I must vote for her book in a number of key categories.  I sure hope she wins.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-12-19
US	50605810	R1F6YNLV7ETHRE	0446527785	916864624	A Bend in the Road	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Romance Writers Take Note: Sparks Builds Better Mousetrap	This is a romance novel pure and simple, despite its being located in the general fiction aisle of your local bookstore. It is not the author's first romance novel and I'm sure it won't be his last. The fact is that Sparks writes very original, very fresh romance novels that those authors who write in the romance genre itself would be wise to read and study at length. He's not a best selling author by fluke. What he does is take very human, very fallible characters and craft them about an incredible conflict.<br /><br />A small town's deputy sheriff is the hero and he is still trying to recover from the hit and run death of his wife two years ago. His son's teacher though comes to interest him and it seems like he may finally start to recover. She had a husband who dumped her because she could not have children and his parents found that unacceptable. However, at long last the identity of who killed the deputy's wife is about to surface and that may totally derail this fledgling romance. This is not a murder mystery, which would have been the easy way out with this story. It is an accidental hit and run with a \\"killer\\" in absolute agony over his deed. I liked this every bit as much as Sparks' \\"Rescue\\" and look forward to his next novel.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-11-07
US	50605810	R323W8RJW6NWH7	0936262508	137923539	The Art of Infrared Photography	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Paduano Tops If You Want To Try Infrared Photography	Infrared photography allows for very surreal, dramatic effects.  I enjoyed taking pictures in it although I have since switched to the computer for similar effects in art work. (My main problem is I don't like working in a darkroom.)  If you want to try infrared photography yourself, Paduano's work was the best I found.  He was the best both on instructions and in the quality of his own infrared work.  Even if you decide not to try infrared yourself, his photographs are well worth enjoying for their own sake.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-09-19
US	50605810	R32RNC7TNCQUHC	0878166009	478657541	Cages	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Why Are All The Best Books Out Of Print?Cages:Exhibit A	This is probably the best \\"comic book\\" ever written.  Artist Dave McKean, whose art I have long time admired, proves that he can write as well, or better, than his old partner, Neil Gaiman.  He used to do all of Gaiman's art and Gaiman's later work has suffered with the absence of McKean's art work.  This is an almost 500 page hardcover book that tells a story about creativity and creative people.  There are three central characters: an artist, a writer and a musician-poet. They all live in the same apartment building and they interact with one another as well as the muse that lives inside each of them and torments each of them.  The story is not told in stricly linear fashion and McKean frequently will break away from dialogue and narrative and into visuals to carry the story for awhile.  He does it all equally well.  The rumor I heard is that the publisher went out of business shortly after publication of the book and that is why it is not available.  Dave McKean, who is a very successful artist in the UK, should look into his rights in publishing this himself as a reissue since too few people are experiencing the joy of reading and seeing his work.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-09-19
US	50605810	R1FBX3FGAWLX1N	0813008301	19751335	Uelsmann: Process and Perception	Books	5	30	37	N	N	Uelsmann Did It First In The Darkroom	What many of us are now doing on our computers for our art work, Jerry Uelsmann, a professor and photographer in Florida did first in the darkroom. \\"Process and Perception,\\" by John Ames and Jerry N. Uelsmann shows page by page the surreal imagery of things that don't go together in the real world but are hauntingly combined in Uelsmann's photographs.  He wisely stayed with black and white in all of the images because he evokes the dream world or the world evoked by the photographic negative.  Color would have competed with his imagery too much.  You see a woman's body floating above the water or combined with the roots of a tree or water running backwards as a person emerges from the sea, to name just a few of his works.  These are all fantastic combinations and he must have spent grueling hours in the darkroom achieving these photographs.  I think any artist or photographer will be inspired by his work.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-09-19
US	50605810	R4SOVC157SBT5	0870704036	32103825	Paul Klee	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Huge Hardback That Captures Klee Exhibit of 1980s	This hardback was issued by the museum when the Klee show toured the USA.  It was a spectacular show that captured the essence of this 20th century artistic genius and I was fortunate enough to see the show and buy the book.  Paul Klee explored just about every art style there was in his quest to develop modern art and his seemingly simplest paintings were usually his best.  Klee lived an often traumatic life as well and when you are exposed to all of his works, you can easily see that quality in his paintings. I found the most eloquent ones were the ones he did as he approached his own painful death. The book does a tour de force job of covering the paintings which were in the show, which is the way the show now lives on.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-09-19
US	50605810	R3PSCCQAGMEF2C	0312273045	579456379	Second Thyme Around	Books	5	2	5	N	N	I'm Really Warming Up To Her	It has taken me a couple of novels to really warm to this author.  The first of hers I read she reversed the Pride & Prejudice characters, making Darcy the woman and present day.  I had to go recover from this novel with my Colin Firth videotape of the series!  However, now that I am used to Fforde's style, I like her.  First and foremost, she creates a village of present day English characters and brings you into their world.  There is a romance at the center, involving Peridita, a speciality produce farmer, and Lucas, an upscale restaurant chef.  They were once married to one another and come together again roughly a decade later.  Perdita also has another big relationship, with a woman in her late 80's who lives next door to her.  They have been like mother and daughter since Perdita was a girl.  Kitty, the older woman, begins to fail and it looks like the end might be near for her. I felt as if I were a part of this village by the end of the book and, really, what more can you ask of fiction?<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-07-30
US	50605810	RFJ7DT595BG2C	0892813636	235415294	The New Orleans Voodoo Tarot (Destiny Books)	Books	5	31	33	N	N	Gorgeous Deck of Cards Plus Fun Reading of Cards For Friends	The reason I bought this set was for the fabulous art on the deck of cards.  Being an artist, this was the key fact for me. They were worth the price alone.  However, the set also includes an instructional book so that you can read the cards for another person.  I learned how to do this.  It wasn't hard.  Many people said they found the readings very accurate but I believe these are much like astrology forecasts where everyone's readings seem to make some kind of sense.  As for the cards being dangerous, as another reviewer maintains, I bought the set almost a decade ago and have never felt any dangerous vibes whatsoever.  You can instantly become the hit of any gathering if you show up with this set in hand.  People just absolutely love having their cards read from it.  It is easy to carry around since it comes in a boxed set.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-07-16
US	50605810	R3234H2CL3CB8E	0312265840	198558647	Seven Up (Stephanie Plum, No. 7) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	3	9	13	N	N	Ok Read but Nothing to Crow About	If it weren't for the characters in the New Jersey neighborhood of this novel, a lively, blue collar, quirky ethnic bunch, I would never pick up one of these books.  The grandmother especially is a priceless character and probably the sole reason I read this book.  These novels also are funny in spots so you are entertained. However, I know no more about lead character Stephanie Plum or her two boyfriends, Morelli or Ranger, than I did 6 novels ago when reading book #1. Evanovich does no character development with these three lead characters.<br /><br />Since these are matchstick characters, I really don't even care which man Plum ends up with permanently.  The novel functions mainly to amuse you around a mystery and a romance.  The mystery element is as lightweight as the romance element, however. This time it involves an aging hood who Plum must bring in as a bounty hunter. There's a problem because he had, and then lost, some other hood's heart and so there are people other than Plum on his trail too.  Frankly, this mystery plot was so lame I didn't even pay much attention to it, looking forward instead to the scenes with the characters from the neighborhood, especially Grandma's scenes.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-07-16
US	50605810	R3EN9VHB24PWB4	0525945938	359050157	Scarlet Feather	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Very Good Even Though Not As Gripping As Earlier Novels	If you are thinking of reading your first Binchy novel, I wouldn't start here.  Go to her earlier work, which is her very best, such as \\"Glass Lake\\" or \\"Circle of Friends.\\" However, if you've read all of Binchy's work, as I have, then this is a very good novel that you will find entertaining.  Cathy Scarlet and Tom Feather are catering partners in Dublin.  Most people think they are also married but they are not.  Cathy is married to a civil liberties barrister, who is totally uninvolved with his personal life, and Tom is living with a woman who will do anything, yes anything, to get a modeling career.  These relationships, in short, are headed for big trouble.  As usual, Binchy also involves Tom's and Cathy's Mum and Dad, brothers and sisters, aunts and uncles, colleagues, friends and associates in the story, enmeshing them all in the plot line.  She is one of the few authors who can carry off a large cast of characters without making a mess of the novel by losing the thread of the story line.<br /><br />Cathy and her parents must also take on her husband's young cousins. Their parents are being evaluated by social services as unfit and you will rapidly come to the conclusion that social services is giving these parents way too many chances.  These 8 year olds, Simon and Maud, almost steal the show they are such great characters.  Because of their odd home life with their wholly unreliable but upperclass parents, they are terribly serious and literal about everything and this leads to plot twists that are the most entertaining in the book.  Of course the big question becomes whether Cathy and Tom will personally move into a relationship since everyone else thinks they are so perfect for one another.  You'll have to read the book to find out the answer to that question!  I know nothing about the catering business but found it fascinating.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.day's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-06-29
US	50605810	RWPXU425276Z9	0789451638	169428051	The Complete Guide to Healing Foods: Nutritional Healing for Mind and Body	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Perfect For Simplifying & Improving One's Nutrition	I had a bit of a health crisis recently with worrying about passing a diabetes test.  I passed it but I decided that I definitely needed to gain more control over the food that I am using daily.  I found this book first at the library and liked the information and layout so well that I bought my own copy for reference. Many of these foods I'm using in their natural or raw forms too, at most steaming or lightly sauteeing them. This book's visuals are very palatable for such a use.  The color photographs of every food discussed are outstanding as well as the accompanying information.  She also uses eye catching charts and boxes for key points.  Basically, I don't want to even be tempted to \\"goop\\" up these foods with sauces or to combine them into casseroles. Thus, the simple beauty of the book with the straightforward information is perfect.  The author, a nutritionist and dietician, is not on the bandwagon for any trendy diet or medical fad either, which is a big plus. Much as I love film, I really don't trust a nutritional book written by a film or tv star!<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-05-20
US	50605810	R3IW84Z3UOS2PK	0345396936	183408691	Cry to Heaven	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Early Anne Rice Unbeatable	Set against the poetically, lushly described background of 18th century Italy, this is the tale of the castrati, men who were castrated before puberty so that they would not lose their angelic singing voices with the breaking (deepening) of the male voice which occurs at puberty. I knew nothing about this subject before reading this novel but felt that I had totally submersed myself in their world by book's end. Tonio, the protagonist, takes us there and we fully experience both his pain as a half man and his joy as an otherworldly, privileged singer.<br /><br />One must remember though how cruel life in general was to the majority of people in this era and country. Thus, although a terrible wrong has been done to Tonio and fellow castrati, they also experience the highs of life that would have never been open to them being among the masses of unprivileged people. They also have sex lives and rather robust ones at that, which caught me somewhat by surprise given that they've been castrated. I did see a movie which reminds me of this novel, called \\"Farinelli.\\"  It is the story of such a singer who really existed back then.  The movie was very good but this novel is outstanding. Personally, I liked Rice better as an author in these earlier works of hers, when she took her time to really craft exceptional work.  In more recent times, she produces her novels at warp speed. There's been a real loss of craftsmanship in that mass production mode that did not occur in this earlier work.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-05-07
US	50605810	R36GELHQN7W47S	068419368X	831879498	Sinatra! The Song is You: A Singers Art	Books	5	6	6	N	N	This Book Needed To Be Written	Will Friedwald, we Sinatra fans thank you from the bottoms of our hearts for writing this book.  Before this, all we had was utter garbage, such as Kitty Kelly's lurid biography that found his singing not only incidental to his life but not even worth covering in her book!  Friedwald's book, however, is solely interested in Sinara the singer, the musician and the artist. The fellow musicians who knew him in that world also knew an entirely different person from the one who was tabloid fodder. Since I own 38 of his CD albums, this book answered many questions I'd had about those albums being created.  If this is the Sinatra you want to know, this is the book to read.  If you want to read the tabloid seamy one about his personal life by Kelly, which I'm ashamed to admit that I did, buy it instead but don't say you weren't warned. And hers even partially ruins listening to his recordings for you for awhile.  But not long since great art always rises above the garbage.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-05-05
US	50605810	R1T4NP77KB6RJT	0394747496	223007619	Hannah and Her Sisters	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Well Written As Usual & Also Commercial	If you want to read a screenplay written by someone who really knows how to write one, Woody Allen is your writer.  I've read many of his and they are all superb. The huge difference with this one is that this is his most commercially successful film.  Thus, you are reading both a high level of creative screenwriting talent coupled with commercial audience know-how.  This is a very unusual combination in show business. His other published screenplays are every bit as good as this one but they have never found as large an audience when made into film.  I've read screenplays by other writers too and one huge difference in Allen's is that he records everything in it. If a character stammers, you get every nuance of the stammer.<br /><br />Allen leaves absolutely nothing out.  If you've never read a screenplay but only read novels instead, I'm not sure how you'll like the experience.  I love film so reading the screenplay is another way of experiencing something I already love in another creative format. I've read that most of the major literary awards have been criticized for not including screenplays in their categories.  It is usually Allen's work that they want included in the prizes.  Allen usually is nominated for an Oscar for his writing by his peers though even if he is shut out of every other category by the many who turned against him in the USA because of his personal life. Finally, if you decide that you may want to try writing a screenplay, you must start reading them. Any screenplay by Woody Allen is an excellent place to start.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-05-05
US	50605810	RIZCILGQCQJDD	0823038610	557501983	Painting the Spirit of Nature	Books	5	46	49	N	N	Fabulous Teacher, Fabulous Art	I was lucky enough to have this artist-author as a teacher almost 2 decades ago.  I no longer work in this style or medium but when I was working in it, her methods were the most marvelously freeing ones.  If you feel constricted with your present results in water color, as if you must \\"break free\\" from such rigid control, Maxine is the teacher for you. The art works are totally glorious as well.  Many are hers and she uses other artists' work as well. The book has art work on virtually every page. Back when I took her course, I know that her work was also selling for a lot of money to big commercial clients to put in their buildings and to some private homes as well.  Thus, she had cracked the commercial barrier too.  I applied her techniques in later years to acyrlics and liquid dyes as well and they worked fine there too.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-05-05
US	50605810	R1N4XL3YQ9UQOY	3822866075	22439532	Deus Ex Machina (German, English and French Edition)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Photographer Very Good; Taschen Publishing So-So	I've bought other art-photo books by this publisher, Taschen, and this may be my last one.  I do not like the way they are all jammed together into a chunk of a mid-size paperback book. For one, you cannot open this book to a page and study it without using your hands to grip the book to keep it open to that page.  I bought this book chiefly to study the nudes. They are very good but I can't say this work absolutely knocks me out the way other books I've reviewed here have done. After reading the other reviews of this book here at Amazon, I think one of the problems is that the book is intended more for an audience of art photographers than for artists working in other media.  If you are an art photographer, this may be a 5 star book for you, although I think you still may dislike the publishing format of it.  This is the first time I've noticed that Amazon has run other pictures, which are inside the book, which you can click to see.  This addresses the biggest problem with buying visual books outside of a real world book store.  At long last, we do not have to rely solely on the cover image in buying the visual book online.  Now we can see inside pages as well.	2001-04-29
US	50605810	R3N2XGV6OULUF	014028009X	738261988	Bridget Jones's Diary: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Novel & Film Are Different But Equally Wonderful	I deliberately held off from reading this novel because I'd heard Colin Firth was the romantic lead.  I loved him in \\"Pride & Prejudice\\" and when I heard this was a modern reworking of that favorite novel and series, I wanted to \\"save\\" myself.  I'm glad I did because the two works are very different.  Firth plays the hero, Mark Darcy, and Hugh Grant, the romantic rat, Daniel Cleaver, Bridget's boss. The movie is much more romantic than the novel, with Firth and Grant onscreen the majority of the time.  Renee Zellwegger does a bang up job as Bridget but the men do take time away from her that they didn't in the novel.  The novel, by contrast, is Bridget's with the two men really being supporting characters.  The novel is funnier because you are reading Bridget's LOL diary entries.<br /><br />The movie is also funny but that accent is shared with the overall romantic mood.  I promptly began reading the novel just hours after having seen the movie. Bridget's life as an early 30s single in London, who wants to find a boyfriend, is about as timely and universal a theme and a plot as possible. It's the entertaining way she writes her diary that \\"makes\\" the novel.  It is the three leads, Zellweger, Firth and Grant who \\"make\\" the film.  The screenwriter reworked many of the scenes and got rid of many scenes altogether, which if you adored the novel may be a problem for you. I didn't have this problem since I did them in reverse order.  Bridget's mother remains a comic and controlling force in both versions and she goes about her own way of \\"finding herself\\" with an oily tv con man from the continent.  She nevertheless advises her daughter throughout and, just like the mother in \\"Pride & Prejudice,\\" is right in her advice even though you think she hasn't a brain in her head!<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.n reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-04-16
US	50605810	R1HN832AUNTBRG	051512866X	477226687	Winter Garden	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Ashworth Is Worth Exploring As Romance Writer	All of Adele Ashworth's novels are set in 19th century England. She is a historical romance author. \\"Winter Garden,\\" her 3rd novel, does not come up to Ashworth's previous heights in \\"My Darling Caroline,\\" her first. However, for those who want to read a pure romance genre novel, Ashworth delivers.  In this novel we have 2 spys, Thomas and Maddie, pursuing a drug smuggling baron in Winter Garden, an English village with temperate winters.  The drug smuggling and the baron are just fodder for the story though as the central conflict is whether Thomas can make Maddie fall in love with him since he is already in love with her. Ashworth's second novel, \\"Stolen Charms,\\" had both characters heavily involved in spying too and even her first had the hero as a spy.  Where the first one distinguished itself though is that it had a lot more going on than spying and falling in love.  Caroline was a brilliant woman kept out of Oxford, who plans on leaving for America to attend college there. Her field is botany and the hero's uncle is the chief botanist in England.  I was really able to sink my teeth into that set of circumstances.<br /><br />So if you want something in addition to a love story, \\"My Darling Caroline,\\" is the 5 star novel to get.  However, Ashworth has a way with love scenes and sexuality that is quite special.  She manages to combine sexuality, love and emotion together, an ability which eludes most other authors.  This ability is seen in all three of her novels.  If you have been looking for an author to combine those three in the romance genre, you've just found her.  If you want to try Ashworth, I'd try her in exactly the order she wrote the novels.  Read \\"My Darling Caroline\\" first, then \\"Stolen Charms,\\" and finally \\"Winter Garden.\\"  I do have a word of advice for Ashworth though if she wants me to buy novel #4: abandon the spying angle, which you seem to be using more and more rather than less and less. You are NOT John le Carre or Robert Ludlum!<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-04-12
US	50605810	R2QVU51AF55Y68	0553263811	99164225	The Minds of Billy Milligan	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Back In Print!  Get It While You Can!	What a shame that this wonderful book ever went out of print.  Set largely in Athens, Ohio, where I went to college, it was written by one of my former instructors, Daniel Keyes.  Keyes is most famous for having written \\"Flowers For Algnernon.\\" Keyes made the most of working with what was right under his nose with this book.  Billy Milligan, you see, was assigned to the Athens mental asylum, after his trial on multiple rape in Columbus, Ohio.  There, Milligan was able to work with an extraordinary psychiatrist who was able to diagnose and treat him for having multiple personalities inside himself, many of them not knowing what the other \\"person\\" was doing.  Milligan was also discovered as a big artistic talent while being treated at the asylum and sold many of the paintings he did there as an Outsider artist.  The book is absolutely gripping.  You won't be able to put it down. Although it is non-fiction, it reads like the best of fiction because Keyes is a fiction writer.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-04-07
US	50605810	RHH10NCU9DYEM	0451155750	497098217	The Dead Zone (Signet)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Even My Mother Loved It and Said, "Not too weird"	For years my mother wouldn't read any Stephen King novels because she was convinced they were all too weird.  However, I did convince her to read this one and she was instantly smitten as a fan by the time she was done.  The only \\"weird\\" aspect of this tale is that the hero is clairvoyant.  His powers become hyper charged when he is in a horrendous car crash that leaves him in a coma for four and half years.  When he finally wakes, he discovers that just by touching someone or some object, he can see exactly what happened or will happen to that person.  The story is about all of the events that happen to him when using this new power.<br /><br />There is also a love story aspect, which is unusual for King.  It's not a major part of the story but it is nicely done what is there.  This was made into a movie starring a young Christopher Walken before he became typecast as villains and mobsters later in his career.  Walken did a great job and \\"Dead Zone\\" is as different for him as it was different for King.  Both the novel and the film are excellent and you can't go wrong with either.  I recently saw the film on DVD again and it held up beautifully to when I'd seen it when it first came out decades ago.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-04-07
US	50605810	R2ZLZPVVLF27EK	0061030155	960212179	Shining Through	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Isaacs At Her Best and Set During WWII	My parents met and married during this era so it has always been one that fascinated me.  Also, it is one of the few times in the USA when its citizens were wholly united on an issue: fighting and winning WWII after the attack on Pearl Harbor. It is an exciting era to read about Americans.  I was surprised to discover Isaacs writing a historical when she had started out with a contemporary romance-mystery in \\"Compromising Positions,\\" a novel which has much been copied by other authors.  I've read most of Issacs' novels but \\"Shining Through\\" stands out from the rest, probably because Isaacs is \\"painting\\" on a bigger canvas.  We start out with our heroine in the Washington DC area in her role as a legal secretary.  She is the usual funny, Jewish, attractive heroine that is Isaacs' trademark, along with the heroine's having flaws that make her realistic.<br /><br />What sets this heroine really apart though is that she also speaks flawless German and thus is one of the few women who can be sent undercover as a spy to Nazi Germany.  That she is Jewish and undertakes this is extraordinary. This is also a love story and can be enjoyed for that aspect as well.  I'd have to say that this novel and \\"Lily White\\" remain my favorites of this author.  Unfortunately, her recent \\"Red, White and Blue\\" is the novel of hers I've liked least.  I couldn't even finish it because Isaacs got so carried away with familial past history. \\"Shining Through\\" was also made into a good but not great movie with Michael Douglas and Melanie Griffith.  So having a great book and a good movie of the same work to choose from, I'd recommend you read the book before seeing the movie.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-04-07
US	50605810	R1E6BO9CFWVCQ7	0316955167	132306747	The Winds of War	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Unique In Satsifying the Blended Genre Reader	I go from historical romance novels to historical fiction to non-fiction but easy-to-read history.  Each of them has its own slant on perspective about that era, ranging from history-as- wallpaper to up-close rendering, as if you were there.  This is one of the very few novels that manages to combine the elements of all 3 kinds of those books into a very gripping reading saga of WWII.  So you are given well researched history in a very palatable form. It follows an interrelated cast of characters all over the map with WWII, taking us deeply into the critical locales. There is even a fascinating account given by a German general, interspersed throughout, of the war as seen through the opposite side's eyes. Wouk does an incredible job and his sequel, \\"War and Remembrance\\" is almost as good.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-04-06
US	50605810	R2MVF55SQOYRRE	0446365386	716836572	Gone with the Wind	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Passes My Test Of Time Superbly	I first read this novel set during the Civil War when I was 12 years old.  Shortly after that I was able to see the film version in an old downtown theater during one of its periodic rereleases.  I was enthralled by both the novel and film.  Is there anyone out there who doesn't know the plot?  For the 10 people in the world who don't know, it features Scarlet O'Hara, a Southern belle, living that role to the hilt on her family's Southern, slave-worked plantation, when all hell breaks loose with the Civil War. Admirable for her survivor qualities, Scarlet is also manipulative and ruthless but meets her match in Rhett Butler, a Southerner who manages to move profitably among both sides of the War while most of the South is starving.  I reread this novel as an adult, expecting that with my many more years of reading since that first read, that I would find the book over the top and soap opera like.  It didn't happen.  I couldn't put it down and had every bit as fascinating a time reading it again as I did the first time.  If you haven't given it a reread in many a year, try it yourself and you'll be very pleasantly surprised.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-04-06
US	50605810	R1MA1PSZIC8R81	0441172717	88529599	Dune	Books	5	3	4	N	N	I Want To go Back!	I'm sitting here with this huge selection I've assembled in my TBR (To Be Read Pile) of sci-fi and fantasy books written within the last few years.  I start one and put it down and then another with the same result. I've been doing this for days.  The problem is that my early reads in this genre were so good that it's hard for anything else to fill their enormous footsteps.  At the head of the class is \\"Dune,\\" a very intricate novel involving the casting out of young Duke Paul and his eventual return to claim what is his.  It is a political struggle, a religious struggle, and most of all an interfamilial struggle. I couldn't help thinking of Shakespeare writing sci-fi fiction as the drama unfolded!  This is an epic saga of towering imagination that will hold you enthralled.  Deservedly, it won all the major sci-fi awards.  It was made into a terrible movie and I hope someone remakes it eventually so that there is a worthy film version to the book.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-04-06
US	50605810	R13D7SF6AAIYWF	0441790348	739394524	Stranger in a Strange Land (Remembering Tomorrow)	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Returning To My Reading Roots And Loving Them Anew	One would suppose that sci-fi fiction would have only improved as we moved ahead in time.  We've picked up some good new writers along the way but much of the present day work leaves me baffled.  For one, it can be difficult to even read and, for another, I could care less about battles.  Easy to read and not focused on intergalactic battle forces is Heinlein's classic, \\"Stranger In A Strange Land,\\" about Michael from Mars, but with links to earth, who comes to earth to experience us in all our oddity.  This novel has it all: love, romance, religion, God, money, power.  Most of all though, I enjoyed it because it was a fertile ground for the exploration of ideas valid then as well as ideas which were in the air and coming.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-04-06
US	50605810	R36YMTRA4YK9XC	0679723218	774338233	Mildred Pierce	Books	5	50	56	N	N	Focus On Mother-Daughter Instead of Man-Woman	I never met a James M. Cain novel I didn't like and this one was no exception.  The title is of the lead character who rises to great success during the Depression with a series of restaurants in early California.  However, she has one big problem: the daughter she raised alone, Veda.  Veda becomes a singer and also a master at deceiving and betraying her mother. Veda does not even consider her mother's spouse, her stepfather, off limits.  This showcases the same intense Cain focus on a twisted relationship but this time it is on the mother-daughter relationship, arguably a more powerful one than the lover-lover one.  This was made into a movie starring Joan Crawford, who won an Oscar playing Mildred. I thought this film version went too over the top though and veered into being maudlin and soap operaish.  Stick with Cain's novel, the far more complex work.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-04-01
US	50605810	R2ZDH03R1TBNGI	1575662612	344914107	Princess Charming	Books	2	7	9	N	N	Heller's Weakest Mystery-Romance at Sea	Heller has always been a 4 star comedic read for me.  I can always count on her for a good evening's entertainment.  This is the one time she failed me.  Even then I can't say that this is badly written or that I couldn't finish it. I made it through without any big problem but I was disappointed when done. There hadn't been much LOL either. Essentially this is a tale about 3 women friends, all divorcees or about-to-be, who take a cruise together only to discover that one of them is the target for a hit-man by an ex-spouse who wants to get rid of her and his obligations to her. The lead woman meets a man onboard, who she starts having a shipboard romance with, only to ultimately wonder if he is the hit-man. Yes, it is a pretty lame idea, especially for Heller.  Well, everyone has a miss and this was hers.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-04-01
US	50605810	R27MT104FW7L3Y	0671019422	333740574	Honey	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Americana At Its Best	This is the 3rd book in a 4 book series and all 4 books are worth buying.  I've read all 4 and my two favorites are this one and the first, \\"Harmony.\\" However, \\"Hooked\\" and \\"Hearts\\", #s 2 and 4, are hot on their heels.  An enormously satsifying aspect to \\"Honey\\" is that it recounts in detail the early history of baseball and puts us right into the heart of an early team that tours the USA around the turn of the century.  I have very fond memories of baseball because my grandfather took me to the Cleveland games when I was a child.  This book tapped into the love of the game and in its early days you also see the sport in its purer form before millions of dollars were attached to its every move.<br /><br />This is not boring history though because the author has put us among some very lovable characters who play on and own the team. The hero is a former big city player who plays for this Montana team in order to raise money to help his friend Cap who needs extensive medical work for a head injury.  Unlike their big city counterparts, most of these ballplayers are drawn from the community and work other jobs but are making time for baseball to make a professional team a reality for their town.  The heroine is the daughter of the team's owner.  He is forced to let his daughter run the team when his owner-partner is the man he most despises in town.  That new partner insists that anyone but he manage the team. This is a wonderful, touching love story between these two protagonists and also a powerful tale of the ups and downs of a life in baseball during the turn of century in America.  I highly recommend it.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-03-21
US	50605810	R229AWK4MWTQGN	0811806960	893832069	The Griffin & Sabine Trilogy Boxed Set: Griffin & Sabine/Sabine's Notebook/The Golden Mean	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Absolutely Gorgeous, Intimate, Abstract & Surreal	If you are a linear person who likes to read things that are clearly set forth in a,b,c steps and you only like realistic art, this set of books is not for you. If, however, you have any appreciation for abstraction and surrealism combined in the worlds of writing and art, you need to own your very own set at once! All three books are correspondence with actual envelopes, letters and postcards between Griffin and Sabine, both of whom are artists in niche markets, designing postcards (him) and stamps (her).  They live halfway across the world from one another.  The actual reading of the correspondence can be done at many levels.  It can be read as a romance between the two people, which many people have chosen as their preferred view, or it can be read as two sides of the same person, with the split parts not realizing they are part of the same whole.<br /><br />There are also extensive other meanings that can be attached to the work depending on how much cognitive concentration you care to bring to reading and viewing the books.  I abandoned that approach almost from the beginning though because I found the right-brain, instinctual pull of the art work so powerful, accompanied by the surrealism of the writing, that I preferred to take in the whole thing as an abstraction of life and the universe.  There is a huge temptation to overly analyze this work or nitpick as to the ultimate destiny of Griffin & Sabine but I suggest you just let yourself go and immerse yourself in author-artist Bantock's world. This would make a fabulous gift for many people who are open to non-linear, abstract and surreal work.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-03-21
US	50605810	R2V7PL6FWUDUNP	0345333217	781702645	Lauren Bacall: By Myself	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Bogart and Bacall's Great Love Story From The Source Herself	The biggest reason to read this autobiography is to learn about one of the greatest showbiz romances, between film stars Humphrey Bogart and Lauren (Betty) Bacall.  It culminated in marriage, movies and children together, lasted 11 years, and only ended because of Bogart's death in his late 50s due to cancer.  In and of itself, that is a wonderful story that any woman especially will adore.  There are many other pleasures in this book though.  Bacall recalls her growing up years with an extraordinary mother and close knit Jewish extended family that saw her through every milestone of her life, including her mother's showing up at a college campus to find Bacall's son when needed.  She was a great beauty from the start and got her career going with modeling that ultimately branched off into acting. She also recounts her successes on the stage and her romances with Frank Sinatra (very odd) and Jason Robards, who she married and later divorced. She has two children by Bogart and one by Robards and touches on them as well.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-03-21
US	50605810	R1B4DHTES4U9L5	0140283307	981253911	White Noise (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	5	7	11	N	N	Hitler Studies and Avoiding Death Through White Noise	This book grabbed me from the moment the professor protagonist  reveals that his subject at this midwestern college is Hitler Studies.  He also relates what his colleagues in allied popular culture studies in other colleges are exploiting academically. Need I mention that one of them does Elvis to our hero's Hitler?  I must have laughed a good ten minutes when I first read about this academic pursuit.  This novel is darkly comic and if you don't laugh while reading it, you're missing it.  However, underneath everything that is going on, and the protagonist realizes this, is that his life has become endless white noise (mindless distractions) to take his mind off of his own ultimate death. He puts us squarely in that boat with him so that we see the white noise in our own lives. He takes white noise in as if it is the air he is breathing wherever he is.  When he is at the supermarket, for example, he is scanning the tabloid headlines while waiting in the checkout line as his white noise. I'd never heard of the author prior to this novel but all of America has heard of his books since then as \\"White Noise\\" launched him to the forefront of fiction.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-03-20
US	50605810	R2V057Z82UXLPE	068480154X	655275342	Tender Is the Night	Books	5	3	4	N	N	An Absolutely Beautiful Love Story That's Gorgeously Written	When I read this novel, I felt as if everything else I'd ever read was garbage.  This is because Scott Fitzgerald had a way with words that was beyond compare.  I would stop myself and reread pages because I couldn't believe that what I'd just read was so beautifully written.  I never do this with novels!  Beyond that, this is an incredible story involving breaking a taboo that has a frightful attraction rate. Dick Driver is a psychiatrist.  Nicole is his wealthy, beautiful, younger patient.<br /><br />This is not a story about Dick's abusing Nicole as her therapist.  Dick saves Nicole and marries her even though he is warned by his own mentor that such a relationship never works. It becomes quite clear as the story continues to unfold that Dick is the one paying an exorbitant price from his marrying Nicole whereas Nicole is thriving.  The alcohol and parties among the jet set abound as they usually do in a Fitzgerald novel, set in the 1920s.  By all means read this novel.  I can guarantee that you will hold onto it for the rest of your life.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-03-20
US	50605810	ROMJEPZ70E0OO	0394500873	253343732	The Stories of John Cheever	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Maximum Impact with the Minimal Prose	The late John Cheever could not only tell a story well.  He also could make each word count to ultimately paint a complex portrait of a certain type of person and his life, (less often her life).  This was the upperclass, or marginal thereto, person who when in a city was in New York and when in the suburbs went by train to CT. Even more telling though was that Cheever's eye could see in a person's smallest gesture, or his passingest moment, everything you would ever need to know about him.  Cheever exposed the underside of what was going on in life for this person.  The world might seem sunny and simple when a Cheever story begins but by its end the world is rendered in all its complexity in the sparest of prose. I read Cheever's novels too but it was in his short stories that his genius as a writer shone forth best. Each story in this collection is stunning and well worth owning forever.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-03-20
US	50605810	R20TTJUTO90TZ1	0679772677	303723286	A Civil Action	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Daily Life of a Personal Injury Lawyer Accurately Told	Being a lawyer myself, I may have focused on a different aspect of this book than other readers did.  The continually fascinating depiction in this book was that of the personality of the personal injury lawyer in America.  He (or she) is a very different type of person than other lawyers. There is the element of the Las Vegas high roller that surrounds this person.  Although he can be in the lap of luxury one moment, not too far down the road he may also find himself a recently decreed bankrupt, as this lawyer found himself.  It is in the nature of the beast.  He works high profile cases where he is only paid if he wins that high profile case.  Nonetheless, he needs a constant bankroll of money to fund the carrying of these cases since he has to pay the expert witnesses and everyone else in bringing in a winning verdict.<br /><br />The book shows the protagonist lawyer always on the edge of financial ruin as he tries to move forward in a case for families who lost their children to a strange form of leukemia due to industrial pollution by a corporation. He is unbelievably dedicated to seeing this case through whereas most normal people, would have thrown in the towel early on with the obstacles he faces.  If you have ever wondered what the life of a personal injury lawyer is really like, this book will answer your questions. I read the book years before seeing the movie and I am glad.  The movie is a very superficial treatment that concentrates almost all of its energies on the unfolding case and very little on the personality of the personal injury lawyer.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-03-20
US	50605810	R2V4MYMQFY65QS	0394747232	587113700	My Father Bleeds History	Books	5	7	10	N	N	You Will Know Vladek As Well As Your Own Father	Usually when I buy comic books (aka graphic novels) it is even more for the art work than for the story. However, the deceptively simple art work in \\"Maus\\" is perfect for the compelling, gripping story of author Spiegleman's father, Vladek, a Jew caught in Nazi Europe during World War II.  The story concerns Vladek's survival of the Holocaust, even though being in a concentration camp, his love story with his wife, Anna, and his eventual life in America afterwards. More complex art work would have taken away from the story.  This story has such epic, universal appeal that you want nothing to distract you from it.  You hate to say that anyone has depicted stereotypes absolutely true to life but in World war II Europe, Spiegelman's depiction of the Jews as mice, the Germans as cats, the Poles as pigs, the French as frogs, and the Americans as dogs, can only be called dead-on accurate. The author was very lucky in one respect though.  If his father Vladek was even a tenth as great in real life as the Vladek shown here, I would expect the son of such a person to be able to create this book.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-03-20
US	50605810	R3PR53I8YW32N	052594544X	955094502	On Secret Service	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Not "Gone With The Wind" But  A Good Historical-Romance	Set during the Civil War, this is an interesting look at the early origins of the Secret Service via main character Lon, first a Pinkerton man and then US Secret Service.  He is a committed abolitionist and works in and around Washington DC throughout the Civil War.  We meet all of the major political and military players in DC at the time, including Lincoln, and that is very detailed and fascinating stuff. Naturally, Lon's romantic interest is allied with the South and even operates as a spy for it. I was interested in this story throughout. There were other good supporting characters including Hanna, an actress, and a black man, Zach, who helps Lon after escaping from the South.<br /><br />Although the North is committed to abolishing slavery, it is clear from Zach's life in the North that although free, he is nevertheless considered infinitely inferior. This I found great stuff and could have stood a lot more of it in the book.  The only problem with this novel is that I was not strongly gripped by it and could always put it down easily.  In fact, I read it before going to sleep every night for about 45 minutes or so.  Five star books do not do this.  They keep you up until close to dawn.  I'm willing to give Jakes another try and have already bought \\"The Seekers\\" to do so. This novel was my first try of his work and I am a bit surprised to discover that he is a huge bestselling author.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-03-20
US	50605810	R1DY0V27O13EMO	0440221595	976995808	The Glass Lake	Books	5	25	28	N	N	Love Her Or Hate Her Type Author; Great Book IMNSHO!	I'll tell you right now that I have no problem believing that there are readers who love Binchy's books and those who hate them.  Her novels are sentimental and nostalgic, set back often in the 1950s and 1960s, as this one is.  She probably isn't far from maudlin but for me she doesn't quite tip over into being that heavy handed. Her novels are also romances combined with family sagas. I admit to having a very wide sentimental and nostalgic streak, however.  Hence, I like her books just fine.  With that warning in mind, and if you're still here, this novel involves two lead women, a mother and a daughter.  The mother has run away with her boyfriend. Her daughter and rest of her family thinks she is dead.  But she's not.  She's working her butt off in England to support the bum boyfriend while her family remains in Ireland.<br /><br />It gets better because the story is even more the daughter's, who comes of age and meets the man of other women's dreams, Stevie Sullivan, who she needs to go out with so Stevie will stop going out with her brother's would-be girlfriend. On the surface, Stevie seems like a hard working version of her mother's boyfriend.  One is tempted to think he's otherwise the same womanizing scoundrel. We follow the stories of both mother and daughter and at one point, the stories intersect.  I couldn't put it down.  Stevie  Sullivan, for my money, is one of the best romance heroes ever written but the rest of the book is splendid as well. I read this huge book on one entire Saturday starting early in the morning.  I even promptly started rereading parts of it when I was done, the true test of a book that's gotten under your skin. If you can resist it, you are a stronger person that I am!<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.n buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-03-20
US	50605810	R22RTQ70BENDJT	0821758950	111259670	Cha Cha Cha	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Funny, Romantic and Tongue-In-Cheek Murder Mystery	I read all of Jane Heller's novels a summer ago and found them to be all 4 star books with one 5 star, her \\"Sis Boom Bah.\\" These are all a lot of fun.  They are light, comedic, and even satisfy the rudiments of a murder mystery.  The heroine in this one has been enjoying the good life until her husband announces he is leaving.  He leaves her with a complete financial mess on her hands and she ultimately has to find work as the maid of a truly obnoxious author who ultimately turns up dead and thus puts in the murder mystery angle.  This is a perfect beach or vacation read.  I enjoyed reading them one right after another and you might enjoy them that way too.  If you like author Jennifer Crusie, you will find Heller's work similar.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-03-13
US	50605810	R28MLRFIHSPEDJ	0804119538	509042545	The Defiant Hero (Troubleshooters, Book 2)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Writing At The Top Of Her Form!	Suzanne Brockmann is in top form with another novel featuring a hero Navy SEAL, Nils.  This time the SEALS are saving a single mom, her daughter and her grandmother from terrorists.  In the course of this operation, 3 love stories unfold.  My favorite love story, as it was in \\"Unsung Hero,\\" is her World War II story told in flashback form by the grandmother to the granddaughter while they are being held hostage. Her story even holds one of the terrorists spellbound, making him put off their executions so he can hear the tale himself. The World War II story specifically ties into the Battle of Dunkirk in which the grandmother herself played a rescue role. (Of all authors Brockmann desperately needs to write a WWII romantic novel without tying it into other time periods; this era is crying out for its own novel by her!) Almost as good though are her 2 love stories involving SEALS present day.  Nils love story with the single mom, Meg, and Sam's with the FBI agent, Alyssa.<br /><br />This book also really moves and its plot will sweep you away right from the get go. Will the SEALS, FBI, and Meg be able to save Meg's daughter and grandmother before they are killed by the terrorists?  That is the overriding question throughout.  For those of you new to Brockmann, she is a big up and comer in the online romance world. It is hoped by her fans that she eventually crosses over to the non-online romance world. An appreciative nod from here to Blythe and Linda over at \\"Pandora's Box,\\" which reviews romances online, for their enthusiastic endorsement of this novel right before I sat down to read it.<br /><br />Personally, my absolute favorite novel of Brockmann's is \\"Heart Throb,\\" the love story between a leading man actor clawing his way back into Hollywood films, after drug and alcohol rehab, and the woman producer on his comeback movie. If you are going to order \\"Defiant Hero,\\" do yourself a favor and toss \\"Heart Throb\\" into the order too if it is still available. My friend Ellen M maintains that if Hollywood wants to make \\"Heart Throb\\" into a movie itself, Robert Downey, Jr., was born to play the lead.  I concur.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.ains that if Hollywood wants to make \\"Heart Throb\\" into a movie itself, Robert Downey, Jr., was born to play the lead.  I concur.    Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-03-08
US	50605810	R3KRQ0LYGWNZYK	0061030597	752429507	Moment of Truth (Rosato & Associates Series)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Big Improvement Over Her "Mistaken Identity"	This is the second novel I've read by Scottoline and I like it much better than my first, \\"Mistaken Identity.\\"  A huge problem with \\"Mistaken Identity\\" is how unlikable all the lead characters were.  Add to that a totally improbable plot and resolution and I wasn't eager for another Scottoline \\"thriller\\".  Big surprise though, for in \\"Moment Of Truth\\" she has two very likable lead characters, Mary DiNunzio, the defense lawyer, and Jack Newlin, the defendant and Mary's client, who admits to murdering his wife so as to protect his teenage daughter. Scottoline even shows a bit of a sense of humor with having Mary constantly fantasize about escaping from the law into just about every other career that exists. There is also a dash of romance in this one between Mary and Jack.<br /><br />Mary is also very accurately depicted as a young woman of Italian American Catholic family, a heritage I share.  I thoroughly enjoyed reading this novel and the plot really did move. The only reason I don't give it a 5 star rating is that I really can't put this in the same ranking as Scott Turow's \\"Presumed Innocent,\\" which was not only a heck of a legal book but was also quite a piece of mainstream fiction that continued to haunt me long after I finished it.  I can't imagine remembering any of Scottoline's work for long after I finish reading it.  It is nice escapist fiction and an evening's entertainment but that's as far as it goes.  Since I am a lawyer, I may be a harder \\"sell\\" on this type of fiction though than another reader, who is not a lawyer, may be.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-02-26
US	50605810	RDUY5X2ZIERQ	067231746X	543123803	How to Use Microsoft FrontPage 2000	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	Worth Buying; A Big Help	This book was a big help to me in creating my own art website.  I was combining lots of visuals plus accompanying text, all on a black cut silk velvet background of my own.  Thus, I did not use one of the program's theme websites.  I was being fairly ambitious in what I was trying to set up and this book got me most of the way there.  The main reason I'm not giving it a 5 though is I still needed to call in my computer friend to help me when I still did not have a website which totally lined up right.  She had to get the spacing worked out and get rid of the horizontal bar for me.  I will admit, however, that computer knowledge also does not come easily to me.  If you are looking for a book that can absolutely guarantee you will be able to build a website from its pages, this book is not it.  However, I doubt any other book is it either as there are a number of bugs in the Front Page program itself that my friend had to fix for me that no book would have addressed.  My friend didn't berate me for buying this book; she berated me for buying Front Page! My husband bought 2 other books for me from Microsoft directly on Front Page and they were not near the help this book was.  If you've decided on using Front Page as your program, I'd go ahead and get this book.  You're probably not going to do better.	2001-02-25
US	50605810	R29OQJQDSMD4BV	0553578685	441587737	The Third Victim: An FBI Profiler Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	It's Hard To Make Fiction As Fascinating As Real Life	Have you ever tried to watch the fictional Gulf War films, or read the fictional books set during it, after having watched it develop live on your television daily?  Well, I have and the \\"real thing\\" was a lot more gripping.  I have also read all the real life followup stories on the Columbine school killings and it is very hard to top those in shattering impact.  Gardner does a very good job with a very similar scenario in her novel.  You will enjoy reading it but if you've read about Columbine thoroughly, you may find this fictional counterpart pales in comparison.<br /><br />The two main characters are a woman police officer in a small, peaceful town and the male FBI agent called in to help on the case. We actually join the police officer in the school after the shootings and while the killer may still be in the building.  It is a very gripping opening.  Once the police have a suspect, there are still troubling aspects to the case about whether there was one killer acting alone or more than one.  How much the internet was used to set up the shootings must also be investigated.  There is a bit of a romantic scenario that is developed between our two main characters but it is a smaller part of the story.  I'd recommend this book as a good evening's entertainment.  You will blast right through it as it is that kind of book.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-02-22
US	50605810	R3HQSJM0F5AYF2	0380978539	68502016	Dear Stranger, Dearest Friend: A Novel	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Friendship Is Born Online	I suppose this novel is remarkable on one level for its thoughtful but not heavy-handed treatment of breast cancer. I notice other reviewers have devoted considerable words to that aspect.  However, where I think this book has carved itself a new niche in mainstream fiction is that it shows us the slow but gradual evolution of a friendship and its coming to full flower in the online world. We've certainly read a great deal about sexual messes men and women have gotten themselves into online.  This writer, however, focuses on something a lot quieter taking place and arguably more powerful.<br /><br />This is the formation of lifelong relations with others through a medium of communication which never existed before.  In a way, these two women are the Lewis & Clark of exploring life in the cyber world.  Is it possible to form a completely life altering, life bonding relationship without physically being in the presence of another?  We knew from history that a few achieved it with letters and now we can see how it can be born again and again around the world over the internet via email.  If you are reading this, you are already on the internet and you, therefore, should read this book.  Highly recommended.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-02-20
US	50605810	R2TQLG590G58RY	052594558X	187046121	Bad Boy	Books	2	10	16	N	N	Sara Bird Did It Better and First	I may have liked this novel better if it hadn't so clearly reminded me of an earlier novel by Sara Bird called \\"The Boyfriend School.\\"  That book is now out-of-print but if readers really like this plotline of turning a nice guy into a bad boy so he can score with women, Bird does it better.  The big difference between the two novels is that his romance author sister transforms her brother in \\"Boyfriend School\\" whereas in \\"Bad Boy\\" it is his best friend, who is a woman hooked up with her own bad boy, who undertakes this transformation.  I wouldn't have even guessed that this was the same author as the one who wrote \\"Fashionably Late,\\" \\"Best Seller,\\" and \\"Flavor Of The Month\\" if her name hadn't been on it.  I hope this is just a misfire and doesn't mean Goldsmith has run out of good ideas.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-02-09
US	50605810	R1MWXJV97QGATI	0061093890	221064435	Fashionably Late	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Fascinated By Fashion Design World	Goldsmith held me rapt again with her insider view of the fashion design industry with protagonist Karen Krahn, who seems very like real world Donna Karan. KK has hit it big in the New York design scene but has problems to handle on every level of her life.  She can't have a baby because she's just been told by her OB-GYN that she is permanently infertile.  Her husband doesn't want to adopt but does want her to sell their company to a huge corporation which will have all of the work done offshore under dubious conditions.  Her impossible mother won't reveal who her birth mother is plus her half sister has her eye on Karen's husband.  This is a very juicy novel which I couldn't put down.  It transports you to that design world and doesn't let go until the end.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-02-09
US	50605810	RW52JOYK2FF6Y	0671794507	46161068	Flavor of the Month	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Another Winner From Goldsmith	I didn't think I could like any book of Goldsmith's as much as \\"Best Seller\\" but this novel is every bit as good.  The primary character, Mary Jane, cannot get ahead in the acting world due to her looks despite her considerable talent.  She thus transforms herself via extensive plastic surgery to Jahne and her acting opportunities at last open up.  Or do they?  Remember that adage of \\"Be careful what you wish for,\\" for Jahne faces a whole new set of problems.  Two other primary characters are two other women she acts with on a series, one on the run from murder and the other on the run from her aging but leading lady star mother.  If you love Hollywood sagas, this one is a doozy!<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-02-09
US	50605810	R1HM4K492TPUKL	1575660385	65703444	The Club	Books	4	6	6	N	N	She's Got Country Club Types Cold	Heller's strength in this novel is satirizing the country club set. My parents have always belonged to a similar place and Heller has got that aspect of the story down cold.  I laughed myself silly.  She also puts in a love-romance part of the story and creates two possibilities, her protagonist's rediscovering her life with her country club-golf obsessed husband or taking up with the policeman who recruits her to investigate the club undercover because of the murder of a noted feminist who was a member. The romance aspects are ok but the reason for reading this novel is the LOL hilarity surrounding the cast of characters who belong to the club.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-02-09
US	50605810	R2S5QGGJPB4S2M	0312971362	420849010	Sis Boom Bah	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Heller Is Female Woody Allen on Jewish Female Family Life	This was a genius idea, especially for an author who does her best work with satire.  She takes two Jewish sisters who live in Florida who cannot be in the same room together for even five minutes without starting the newest fight in their ongoing saga of battles.  However, their mother, also in Florida, has a heart attack.  Sick of putting up with their petty and constant squabbling, the mother lets them think that further squabbles will finish her off with another heart attack.  This forces them to try and not fight when with the mother but they are really lousy at getting along.  Add to this hilarious premise, the fact that both of them proceed to date their mother's cardiologist, a potential \\"dream husband.\\"  Only problem is that he turns up murdered and it looks like one of them did it!  The laughs never stop on this novel.  I couldn't put it down.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-02-09
US	50605810	RMFIB76SXHAKI	0679723250	525245685	The Postman Always Rings Twice	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Another Favorite By James M. Cain	This novel was another stunner from Cain.  Set out in a then  country area of California, outside of LA in the early 1940s, most of the action takes place at a diner on the main highway.  This too involves a wife very unhappy with her husband, Cora with Nick.  She finds a possible way out of her life with this brutish husband when drifter Frank comes into the diner and hangs around doing odd jobs for them.  The couple plot to kill Nick so that they can end up with the diner and each other.  There was one movie version done by John Garfield and Lana Turner in the 1940s that was absolutely faithful to the book.  There was a 2nd version in the 1980s with Jack Nicholson and Jessica Lange that deviated somewhat from the novel, especially towards the end.  I enjoyed both film versions equally and would highly recommend them.  A Cain novel is very hard to put down once you've started and the man used no excess words.  He too was an expert at looking at the best and worst of people as brought out by crime and its punishment.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-01-28
US	50605810	R1REGL8BT4LKVT	0679732489	352461005	The Grifters	Books	5	20	23	N	N	The Star After Cain and Chandler	Now we Americans recognize the writing of Jim Thompson and deem him a worthy successor to Cain and Chandler.  When he first came out though, in the 1950s and 1960s, he was more readily admired by readers abroad.  Movies of his work were not made until relatively recently. Grifters are con men and women.  In this novel, Thompson has the grifters down cold.  The leads are Lily and her son, Roy.  They have a very high tension relationship with one another and the the latent sexuality lurking between them is not the least of it.  Marching directly into the midst of this deadly duo is Moira, also a con woman, and Roy's present girlfriend. Moira gets the not so bright idea of stealing money from Lily.  These are all fascinating characters, very dark and compelling with not much in the way of redeeming features. This is a great novel with the same hard boiled edginess that Cain and Chandler used.  This was made into a movie with Angelica Huston as mother Lily, John Cusack as son Roy and Annette Bening as Moira.  It couldn't have been cast any better as they were superb with the first rate screenplay.  The movie was moved up to present day LA whereas the book was set back in the 1950s.  I highly recommend both.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-01-28
US	50605810	R1TX5G3QXNSZM5	0061096083	141497163	The Bestseller	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Goldsmith's Caught Modern Day Publishing Perfectly	I've only been published in textbook form, whereas this novel details the fiction world, but even my limited experiences tell me that Goldsmith is uncannily accurate in conveying the modern day publishing world.  She uses an ensemble cast of characters, all connected with one publishing house, to expose the loony tune world which now prevails.  The novel opens with the literary star of the bunch killing herself after receiving 23 rejection letters. This unleashes her mother upon the publishing world.  The mother literally camps out in person in publisher's foyers, manuscript in hand.  The publisher himself, rather than seeking stellar talent, forces his own books to publication but, bad as they are, he needs the company's computer whiz to jiggle the sales' data so that his books look like they are selling whereas others' look like they are not.<br /><br />Then there is Alf, the boyfriend-agent of a Rosmund Pilcher-like author, who ignores her when a boy wonder turns up with a hot manuscript, which he just happened to steal from his wife.  There are likable characters too with romantic elements attached to them but the book is really \\"made\\" by its bad guys and gals.  One of the least likable characters is the chief editor, who is a big, blowsy woman with commercial instincts which have taken her far. She gets all blown apart by her own greed and growing alcoholism.  If you've ever wanted a glimpse into the modern day publishing world, you must read \\"Bestseller.\\"<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-01-28
US	50605810	R8M10VBRVH0S5	0394758285	849452523	The Big Sleep (A Philip Marlowe Novel)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The Classic	You may have wondered where the booming mystery book market in the USA started. There were a few key writers who got it off the ground in the 1930s and 1940s.  Raymond Chandler and James M. Cain are two of the writers everyone remembers.  Chandler's detective was Phillip Marlowe and rather than the mystery's taking center stage, Marlowe took it with his observations of the human condition and how the best and worst of people could be brought out. There's always murder, greed, money and sex and this novel is steeped in all of those ingredients.  There are two sisters, daughters of a wealthy man in the heyday of Los Angeles, back when it was small.  It is this family who Marlowe will investigate and penetrate.  Humphrey Bogart played Marlowe on the screen very well and Robert Mitchum, later in life, also did a heck of a job.  I like reading about (novel) and seeing (movies) in its authentic setting of 1940s LA.  It doesn't seem dated to me at all.  It seems like a historical piece and totally works.  The Big Sleep itself is death, what else?<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-01-28
US	50605810	RDHGKDA46G2SY	0679723226	2859176	Double Indemnity	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Chandler's Equal or Better In Inventing Classic Crime	Personally, I am even taken with Cain's work more than Chandler's in the hard boiled American genre school of crime.  One enormous advantage he had was his plots were incredibly inventive.  Part of this was because he knew the insurance industry cold and could put insider information about how insurance could impact on murder cases.  This novel is also set in 1940s LA where insurance agent Walter Huff unfortunately falls for his client's wife, who wants to knock him off with Huff's help. Phyllis is a femme fatale gold digger who everyone but Huff can see straight through.  He comes up with the idea of getting the husband to sign a huge double indemnity insurance policy that will pay them double when the husband meets with an untimely \\"accident.\\" Barbara Stanwyck and Fred McMurray played these two roles in the movie version and they were spectacular in it.  \\"Body Heat\\" a modern movie in this style strongly reminds me of this early novel and film.  If you were taken with \\"Body Heat,\\" you will be equally taken with \\"Double Indemnity.\\"<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-01-28
US	50605810	RE7AEHSNAF1N	0684826976	646280776	Undaunted Courage:  Meriwether Lewis, Thomas Jefferson, and the Opening of the American West	Books	5	2	2	N	N	I Rarely Read Non-Fiction History; This Was Fabulous!	Usually this kind of book is extremely boring to those readers who never got their master's or doctoral degrees in history. I am one of those readers. I think the last time I read about Lewis and Clark was in college and I didn't get fired up over them or Thomas Jefferson.  Well, if you want to transform a deadly dull history class into an absolutely compulsive recounting of the Expedition, using original source material to boot, this book is the one to take to, or instead of, class.  I felt as if I were on the Expedition except that I didn't have to undergo any of the rigors. (Thank God, the conditions were horrendous.  I would have never made it back.)<br /><br />I also realized how we could use a President like Thomas Jefferson today, a man who with one hand opens the West with Lewis and Clark while with the other is busy putting together the Louisiana Purchase.  Ambrose details Jefferson a great deal in the front of the book.  Knowing Jefferson's planning and scheming, not to mention his brilliance, to attain his goals really opened up American history for me. To see the \\"quality\\" of candidates we have today for President with their total lack of vision, by comparison, would have made Jefferson weep.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-01-26
US	50605810	R35FI7EKSW8LW8	0671567659	557948928	The Moon and the Sun	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Versailles, Sea Monsters, Sun King and Love with Dwarf	The author has an incredible imagination. She makes a young woman, fresh out of the convent, the protector of a female Sea Monster.  The monster was captured by the woman's priest-brother for the king.  King Louis XIV at Versailles plans to eat the Sea Monster since he believes that she will thereby give him immortality.  Added to that incredible mix is a dwarf at court, Count Lucien.  He is lover to countless women who adore him plus he is the hero who will come to love the heroine and help her save the sea monster. All of this is created in stunning detail by the author.  Maybe if she had just tried to convince me of the Sea Monster at Versailles with Louis's plot, that would have been enough though.  When she added in the dwarf Don Juan, I felt as if a Fellini movie had been added into the mix. It just pushed it a bit over the top for me personally. Nevertheless, it is a very good reading experience and you will be fully rewarded if you are a fantasy fan.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-01-26
US	50605810	R3R176AUIMJ9MX	0553575384	291987598	To Say Nothing of the Dog	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Hugo Winner In Sci-fi But Also A Romance & Satire	Connie Willis managed to combine several books into one without making it the size of the Bible. In fact, it is a normal size paperback where she rolls together a time-travel tale from the future back to Victorian England, with a romance, and one heck of a comedy. It all works and it must have taken an enormous amount of skill to combine all of these elements flawlessly.  The only person she topped in the time-travel subgenre was herself.  Some years before she had written \\"The Doomsday Book\\" where she sent the main woman character back to the middle ages during the plague.  That didn't have the humor of this book but it was a real nailbiter as one character after another came down with the plague.  I am not a fan of time-travel novels and it takes a lot to get me to read one but here you find a master at work within that subgenre.  Accept no imitations; Willis is \\"the one.\\"<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-01-26
US	50605810	R69BOO700TGA1	0440224071	64914490	Los Alamos	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Edgar Romantic Suspense Winner & Deserved It!	This novel is shelved as a mystery but it is every bit as much, or more, a romance.  It is told with the hero's first person voice and is set in atmospheric Los Alamos during WW II during the Manhattan Project. I found the setting of the story compelling.  The characters are not all white or black, any of them, but shades of grey instead.  This rather fits with the setting since many people have mixed feelings nowadays about both Los Alamos and the Manhattan Project themselves.  Los Alamos and the atom bomb project are backdrop and setting, however, to a character driven novel that also provides a murder mystery to solve. For those romance readers eager to shake the virginal heroine with the heart of gold and try a flawed heroine instead, this may be your book. This could have been a big groundbreaking novel in the romance genre had it been shelved or classified there and I'm sorry it wasn't.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-01-26
US	50605810	R3JM0GI9F82O9J	0804109990	99157464	Homicide: A Year on the Killing Streets	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Absolute Best Police Book Ever Written	Put down your police procedural murder mysteries.  I don't care who wrote them because they are all fiction.  If you want the REAL story, this is it.  I couldn't put this book down. Every scintillating fact and detail of the killing streets of Baltimore, Maryland, as experienced by its Homicide Division in the Police Department is recounted here.  The people in this book are all real and they are so well set forth that you will feel as if you live or work with them yourself. I felt as if I were the reporter on assignment with them for a year.  This book was also a big award winner, as it should have been. In a curious way, by book's end, you are saying two contradictory statements to yourself. (1) How do these police people stand doing this kind of work day in and day out and (2) I can understand that the work is so fascinating that it is easy for it to utterly absorb and involve you, taking over your life.  The rest of us lead incredibly dull lives compared to the homicide detectives of the BPD!<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-01-26
US	50605810	R2H3693RHTEYHH	0847822370	692733671	Artists at Work: Inside the Studios of Today's Most Celebrated Artists	Books	4	13	15	N	N	More For The Public Than For Artists Themselves	I've talked to many buyers of art who believe that if they were to be invited into famous artists' studios, they would be seeing something straight out of the pages of \\"Architectural Digest.\\"  You know, natural wood, soaring spaces, immaculate wood floors, pristine white walls to be hung with dazzling works of art, views of the sea or equivalent and so forth.  Nothing could be further from the truth and this book captures that.  Although these artists could all afford the best space, their space is as utilitarian as I would expect it to be. The spaces are stark, undecorated, with bare floors, often with paint splattered on them or even gouged.  They do have high ceilings but because it makes it better to view and move around their work which is scattered all over the studio.<br /><br />Their tables are utilitarian and used with maybe one chair to sit in; ditto their paint containers and tools.  The \\"view\\" is what is inside the studio itself as they are in there to look at their own work.  Staring at the work can be an important part of the process. The walls are kept light and are simply painted white or even in need of a paint job.  Probably over 90% of all artists worldwide could show you space that looked much the same, located in their basements, garages or barns. I don't really see why any artist needs to buy this book but if you have some romantic illusion about artists' studios, and some people do, this book will straighten you out fast!<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-01-24
US	50605810	R1GGYEXT5QRVYX	0891346414	93227436	Painting Watercolor Portraits	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Get Your Portraits Freer and Looser	I don't really use the how-to portions of books like these although I'm sure many artists do.  What I like doing instead is looking at the pictures and see what they in and of themselves can teach me.  What struck me about this book when I bought it was that if one wanted to make one's portraits a lot freer, more fluid, flowing and looser, this book shows that very well.  I would especially encourage any of us working in colored pencils or pastels to consider incorporating watercolor in a mixed media approach towards portraiture. Stine definitely shows more Impressionistic results in portraiture than realistic.<br /><br />However, these are hardly Abstract Expressionist portraits!  You can't mix this with oil, of course, so if you are looking at this work compared to your own in oil, you would be contemplating doing a complete 180 degree switch.  It certainly would save you an enormous amount of drying time to make the switch from oil to watercolor. The brush work seems as if it would be a lot faster as well. Every page in this book seems to have a full color watercolor portrait featured on it so it is a good value for the money as well.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-01-23
US	50605810	R2GCEK3ZTAN9NA	0500542309	994800173	The Naked and the Veiled: The Photographic Nudes of Erwin Blumenfeld	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Blumenfeld Didn't Need A Computer!	I had my sister get me this book for Christmas so as to further my study of the nude.  Knowing that the work inside was all about a half century or more old, I wasn't expecting highly innovative or original work but I indeed did find it. How stupid of me to think that his art work might be less fresh because he didn't have the photo equipment we now have or a computer.  This study of his work is certainly proof positive that all an artist really needs is a first rate imagination! His fascination is the female nude.  He \\"hides\\" that nude in some way in each shot but his results end up exposing the subject rather than obscuring it.  Actually, it was a relief in many ways to see the art work of someone who was neither handicapped nor helped by state of the art machinery and equipment.  Don't hold off buying this book because the work came from many earlier decades.  The front cover image is very representative of the quality and content inside the book.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-01-23
US	50605810	R7NOFSH7N7MUY	0449225550	124082500	Absolute Truths	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Very Satisfying Conclusion To 6 Book Series	When we started out in Book #1, the narrator, Charles Ashworth, was still fairly young.  In this novel, he is again the narrator but he is elderly and the bishop of Starbridge.  Being this age, he can wind up everyone's story.  There is his whole generation of people and their families in the Anglican Church plus his childrens' generation of people. Of all the books, I'd say this one you better read as #6 and not out of order.  There are simply too many stories which are wrapped up here that won't have the same impact on you if you haven't read books 1-5.<br /><br />This novel has its share of worldly problems with: gay priests (2), the ghost of Jardine appearing in the cathederal, an exorcism of the cathedral, a possible embezzlement by Dean Aysgarth from cathedral funds, a suicide, death of a spouse and finding another spouse.  It also has combined therapeutic-spiritual sessions again with Jon Darrow as spiritual director for both Ashworth and Aysgarth. Once I started any of the 6 books, I couldn't stop reading till the end and this one was no exception.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-01-22
US	50605810	R1I7XK0E22L5W8	0449001504	476446589	The Wonder Worker (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Nick Darrow Is Back!	Nick Darrow, the psychic Anglican priest, was one of my favorite characters in the 6 novel Starbridge series so I was very glad to see Susan Howatch reprise him in his 40s in this novel.  He was much younger in \\"Mystical Paths,\\" which took place before his ordination. Howatch told the Starbridge stories with one narrator in first person for each of the Starbridge novels.  With this one, she returns to a device she used in her \\"Cashelmara\\" and \\"Penmarric\\" days of having alternating characters tell the story in first person. Nick has a ministry of healing and deliverance using his psychic powers.<br /><br />Lewis Hall, his former spiritual director, now lives and works with him. The danger for Nick is in the temptation to become a Wonder Worker.  This is where he becomes a charismatic Christian healer who works in pursuit of his own fame and glory rather than God's. This book also has more of a love story develop within it than some of the other Starbridge novels did and you see it develop from the main characters' points of view. Venetia reappears from the Starbridge series also and takes up with Lewis Hall.  These characters all reappear in the novel which came after this one, \\"The High Flier,\\" but they are no longer the leads in that novel.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-01-22
US	50605810	R2XBA0NS6B8FE8	0380776839	687083377	It Had to Be You (Chicago Stars)	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Book #1 in SEP's Football Hero Series; Hooks You Instantly!	SEP is coming out in hardback shortly with her newest football book. I absolutely hate football and couldn't imagine at first liking these books.  This held true until I read my first one, out of order in the series, \\"Nobody's Baby But Mine.\\" I finished that one at about 3am of the morning after the day I'd bought it.  Did I sleep late?  Oh, no, I got up first thing to go to the bookstores to track down her other books! I read the entire series, as it then existed, in about 3 days. Essentially, every book involves a hero in football in some capacity and a heroine who is either also in football or who intersects with him for some other reason.  In this book, the heroine, Phoebe, inherits the football team for Chicago from her recently deceased father.<br /><br />She inherits with a tricky provision though and has every chance of losing the team to her cousin. The hero, Dan, is the coach for her football team, a former player himself. Dan thinks Phoebe is a total airhead because she lived with and modeled for an artist in New York, has many gay friends and looks like a present day Marilyn Monroe. Phoebe has a way of giving people the business too who make stereotyped judgements just looking at her.  She is no dim wit.  Phillips combines LOL hilarity with great tenderness and heartfeltness.  I'm happy to report that you really don't need to know anything about football since Phillips uses it primarily as a way of moving her plot and fully developing her characters.  Even I found myself totally enmeshed in this football world.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-01-21
US	50605810	R2UYI8PZXNQY97	0425148297	587976494	Naked in Death (In Death, Book 1)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Book # 1 of Top Blended Genre Series; Favorite Hero In Polls	Nora Roberts decided to do mystery in addition to romance and even threw some sci-fi into the mix.  She thus created Eve Dallas, a detective with the NYPD 2050, and Roarke, the richest man on earth, who rose from obscure Irish poverty.  Further, the author made Roarke a murder suspect, Eve the detective and the rest became history.  This duo is still going strong in this continuing series, which wins readers from both the romance and mystery genres daily.  In fact, Roarke usually wins the best romance hero category every time there is a polling of readers for favorite heroes.<br /><br />Eve and Roarke together often win Best Couple. Many women readers have even successfully passed these books onto their husbands for bedside reading.  I've read this one and the three that follow it.  I have another 4 or so in my to-be-read stack.  In a way, the duo remind me of Nick and Nora Charles but set in future day, even more decadent and dissolute New York City. Even though she uses the name Robb for these books, everyone knows it is bestselling romance author Nora Roberts who writes them.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-01-21
US	50605810	R1RX839C17WEP6	1560252537	482154695	Fetish: Masterpieces of Erotic Fantasy Photography	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Gorgeous Photography and Costuming	Fetishism doesn't personally attract me.  However, in my continuing study of the human body for developing my own art work, the cover picture on this book snared me. I thought it was very original and eye catching. I bought the book and I did have many good art creation inspirations from looking at the photos.  Curiously, however, most of that inspiration was in costuming, which formerly interested me greatly when I did fiber wearable art.  The head gear in particular, some of which reminded me of great birds of prey and primitive masks, was visually stunning.  This is pretty \\"out there\\" stuff though and I wouldn't recommend it if you are looking for generally erotic photographs and think this book might do the job.  I think you better specifically like fetishes, or have a specific other interest like mine, in order to make it worth your investment. This also might be a very worthwhile investment for those artists who are still in fiber wearable art or costuming.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-01-21
US	50605810	R2VPIWRQHZPMMQ	155595099X	365961806	Esteban Vicente	Books	5	5	5	N	N	If you love Abstract Expressionism, Get It	I love this art style and so heartily appreciated Vicente's exquisite paintings.  He veers in the direction of colors I prefer as well, using purples, violets and reds generously.  I know I've bemoaned art books which aren't laid out well but this is not one of them.  If all art books were published with this care and attention, I would never complain about layout again, in fact!  Elizabeth Frank, the writer, does her usual exemplary job but, as usual, I was into it far more for just looking at the art work.  If you hate abstract expressionism and/or the cover of the book, go no further.  The cover is very representative of his overall style and color preferences.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-01-21
US	50605810	R383IGKTL0QUY0	0708909884	193569907	A Countess Below Stairs (U)	Books	5	61	67	N	N	Another Winner by Ibbotson	Amazon's branch in the UK carries this in paperback and her others as well.  Readers also use interlibrary loans to find her novels.  I virtually pulled an \\"all nighter\\" to finish this novel and that rather says it all. A young Russian countess is forced to work as an English earl's housemaid because of having fled revolutionary torn Russia.  The earl is engaged to a beautiful heiress who is another one of Ibbotson's high comic characters.  She believes in eugenics, getting rid of unfit people. The people in the earl's village and household use that vice to sink her boat with the earl.<br /><br />This is a fitting failing for the time period because it is right before Hitler and WWII.  Ibbotson always seems to have the other woman as the villainess for the hero's affections. However, she presents them as such high figures of comedy that they are not at all clich&eacute;s.  I also love Ibbotson's use of time periods that few others seem inclined to use.  This is right after WWI and the effect of that war on the survivors is part of the story.  Ibbotson was a native of Vienna who settled in England herself so she brings all of her eastern European insight into her novels.  This resembles a delightful fairy tale but there is no paranormal or fantasy aspect to it.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-01-07
US	50605810	R3TDG11R0H6L9Q	0449219828	901933010	Scandalous Risks	Books	5	10	10	N	N	May-December Affair Brilliantly Told!	Here I had just settled into the idea that the rest of Howatch's \\"Church\\" books were going to be just 4 star reads,when I read this one, her very best.  Told from the point of view of Venetia, a 26 year old daughter of the aristocracy, we see her affair unfold with 60 year old Neville Aysgarth, the narrator of the last book, \\"Ultimate Prizes.\\" This is a very different book from the other three.  First, we have the feminine \\"I\\" telling the story whereas before it has always been a male minister or monk of the Anglican Church.  Second, the time period shifts to the 1960s,when all bets on morality were temporarily off and were argued as such among Anglican theologians.<br /><br />One real-life book becomes the focus for doing what you want as long as you do it with love, per a leadingAnglican bishop of the day...I was a basket case by the end of this book and that is the ultimate compliment.  Had you given me the premise of the book as I've written above, I doubt I would have even read it, wondering why I'd want to read about a 26 year old and a 60year old. I'm so glad I'd made the commitment to read the whole series because this is one of the best novels I've ever read.  Since this book packs an emotional wallop that far exceeds the first three books in the series, and since it is the only one involving a female narrator, I can't help but wonder if some or all of it happened to Howatch herself.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-01-04
US	50605810	R2ECKWZNJPF9P7	0804119503	938459104	The Trouble with Mary	Books	4	2	3	N	N	The Italian-American Catholic Family Year 2000?	I needed to read a light, funny book after reading \\"Scandalous Risks,\\" the serious May-December adulterous affair novel by Howatch.  This one fit the bill and I enjoyed it.  However, it was an uneven reading experience.  While I was enjoying it and racing right through it, nagging questions kept running through my mind. Some of this undoubtedly comes from being raised in a similar Italian-American Catholic family.  Although it was only the maternal end of my family, it certainly overwhelmed the New England English paternal end! Here are some of the things that were nagging me: (1) Mary is 33 yet the problems she is encountering with her family seem more like the problems that she would have encountered a few decades ago rather than now.  Everyone in my family who is as \\"old world\\" as the people in this book are either dead or in his or her 70s to 90s. Mary should be really a woman in her 50s to be surrounded by this family.  (2) As old world as Mary's family is presented, they never mention the fact that Dan, the hero, is divorced and that it might be a problem for their daughter to date or marry a divorced man.<br /><br />If his prior marriage isn't recognized by the Church (even though he's presented as a now lapsed Irish Catholic), the author should have told us that fact. That her family would never even bring it up is totally unbelievable, especially since their son is a priest in their neighborhood. It would be their first question.  (3) a big conflict in the book is whether she can still keep her own business yet marry and have children later....huh?  What year is this; right, 2001, not 1950-1970.  I would fault the novel more seriously for these 3 flaws if it were not comedic.  This is obviously intended to be a light romantic comedy that you quickly breeze through in an evening and Dan and Mary make a very likable couple. The family and setting in Baltimore remind me of the comic family in Janet Evanovich's Stephanie Plum series set in Trenton. This novel, like Evanovich's novels, succeeds in being a good, light evening's entertainment. If you want to try an Italian American romantic comedy with more dramatic elements, that also ends happily, you ought to try Rita Ciresi's \\"Pink Slip.\\"  That one I felt caught the Italian American Catholic experience for a late 20s, early 30s type woman surrounded by her family in the eastern seaboard area perfectly.  Read both books for that matter and then compare and contrast them as I'm doing in my head now. One bonus to Criswell's book: there's a treasure trove of actual recipes in it for your Italian cooking pleasure.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.anovich's novels, succeeds in being a good, light evening's entertainment. If you want to try an Italian American romantic comedy with more dramatic elements, that also ends happily, you ought to try Rita Ciresi's \\"Pink Slip.\\"  That one I felt caught the Italian American Catholic experience for a late 20s, early 30s type woman surrounded by her family in the eastern seaboard area perfectly.  Read both books for that matter and then compare and contrast them as I'm doing in my head now. One bonus to Criswell's book: there's a treasure trove of actual recipes in it for your Italian cooking pleasure.    Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-01-04
US	50605810	R2LHAWB05ELCE1	042517770X	212187272	The Wrong Child	Books	3	11	13	N	N	Concept Always Intrigued Me	Like many other Americans, I followed the headlines when it was discovered that the girl in Florida, Kimberly, was switched at birth with another baby and both were raised by the other's biological parents.  The other girl had recently died so there was no similar ordeal for her to go through.  This novel takes that basic premise and makes both girls alive and well.  One child is being raised by a single mother and the other child is being raised by a widowed father.  This opens up the whole possibility of romance between the two surviving parents and combining their families and households.  The story unfolds pretty much as a romance and family story with neither parent going to the police or to court and the media not getting wind of it.  Few people are probably so heroic in real life as to not file a multimillion dollar damage claim against the hospital in court which they would probably win.<br /><br />This probably would have been a more gripping reading experience if those real-life elements were present in the story and if the characters had to work out their problems under that glare.  A subplot involving the widower's sister-in-law wanting to be his next wife is used instead to create conflict but it reads too much like a simplistic contrivance by the author to create more conflict. The sister-in-law is created in such broad strokes that I thought at one point she was going to turn into a murderess just to make her a complete \\"stock character.\\" This is one of those instances where the book really deserves a 3.5 star grading but Amazon does not include half a star ratings in its system. I'd like to see another author tackle this same premise and really turn up the heat in the story's conflict.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.ried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2001-01-01
US	50605810	R2FYQC225FZBDO	0449218112	459432466	Ultimate Prizes	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Another Compulsive "Church" Read!	Probably none of these are going to be quite as perfect for me as the first book in the series, \\"Glittering Images,\\" because I am now familiar with this Anglican Church world and the characters who people it.  Nevertheless, Neville Aysgarth, the protagonist in this novel, an archdeacon in the Church, tells a compelling story which involves himself always being after winning the big prizes in life, whether they be the perfect career, wife or children.  This leads him to a breakdown and his spiritual battle back, this time with the counseling help of two other Anglican ministers, one of whom is Jon Darrow again.  Aysgarth has some unlikable characteristics, along with likable ones, but some readers may be put off from him.  He also picks a lulu of a second wife, Dido, who is supposed to be grating and abrasive.  She succeeds well in this role. I've already started Book #4, \\"Scandalous Risks,\\" so I am obviously hooked on the whole six book series.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-12-29
US	50605810	R2EO90MG1NT9OD	0449214362	441695937	Glittering Images	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Anglican Church, A Psychotherapeutic Fix	How much you like this novel may depend on how much analysis or therapy appeals to you.  It also may depend on how you like sordid, steamy, lacivious details.  In short, I loved it!  When a minister with this church is in emotional trouble, he gets counselling through someone in the church.  In this story, it is through a head monk.  The minister finds himself wildly in love with a woman assistant living in the bishop's house with the bishop and his wife.  Going right off the rails, the minister imagines a menage a trois among that threesome when the woman turns down his marriage proposal.  This sends him into counselling with the monk.  However, the source of the minister's problems goes way back into his own family and the two proceed to rip the veil off the past.  Then the initial question repeats: is the minister imagining that the bishop is in a menage a trois keeping the minister from marrying the single woman in his household?  If the Anglican church bears any real relationship to this novel, I feel cheated having been raised a Catholic! Who needs parishioners with these kinds of problems in the ranks?!<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-12-22
US	50605810	R2G4QNW2BXUSIL	0449217280	402452668	Glamorous Powers	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Very Good But A Little Less So Than Book #1	With the 2nd book in Howatch's Anglican trilogy, we explore the story of the monk who was the therapist in book #1.  He is also 60 years old, a psychic and a vision from God sends him back into the world and out of the monastery.  There is a great deal of counselling and angst in this novel as well.  There isn't enough different about this novel to make it the same fascinating read as book #1 though.  I've already bought book #3 and I hope we follow a different pattern with that one. He does find a new woman as part of his vision from God as her bag and her estate were specifically seen in it. The Anglicans must spend more time in analysis than Freud himself ever dreamed possible!<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-12-22
US	50605810	R6OL77WI5N6XK	0380815575	722221564	The Viscount Who Loved Me (Bridgerton Series, Bk. 2)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Very Good Read, Quinn's Best Book	Recommended by Blythe and Linda of the online \\"Pandora's Box,\\"  this historical set in the regency is a very good reading experience.  It didn't knock me out as they were knocked out by it but I enjoyed it a lot. Compared to Austen's \\"Pride and Prejudice\\" by many readers and reviewers, this didn't deliver that much of a knockout wallop to me personally.  It has a very well done hero and heroine who are each haunted by deaths.  She is haunted by her mother's and it comes back to her in thunder and lightening storms.  He is haunted by his father's which seems to portend an early death for him as well.  These are the only impediments to their happiness.  With Quinn's usual light, comedic touch, there is also much to laugh out loud about in this novel.  I especially liked the society newspaper notes by Lady Whistledown.  For many romance readers this will probably be a 4.5 or 5 star reading experience and I can't imagine telling a romance reader not to buy it and read it.  Quinn has definitely arrived on the romance writing scene with her best book to date.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-12-16
US	50605810	R1BIAUNOTF4VVZ	3829005024	10103787	Nudes Index I (Indexes) (English, French, German and Spanish Edition)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Both Male and Female Nudes, Equally Exquisite	I don't know if the general public knows how hard it is to find art photography books that show male and female nudes in equal numbers.  This book shows both and they are gorgeous to boot.  I'm having a hard time telling you a difference between this book and the other nude book I've recently given 5 stars to, \\"Eros.\\"  Both show men and women.  Both have artistically perfect work done by top notch artist photographers.  Perhaps the difference is more of a cultural one.  This book is from chiefly German or German-based photographers and galleries. Thus, its perspective seems more European than it does American.  \\"Eros,\\" however, looks fully like an American book.  If you are an American already, nothing will seem really odd or different to you in \\"Eros.\\"  However, unless you are steeped in foreign films, and I am, this \\"Nudes Index I\\" book might strike you as more \\"out there\\" or avant garde.  I had to own both books.<br /><br />How do they compare to Robert Mapplethorpe's own nude books?  I've also given 5 stars to Mapplethorpe's book in a much earlier review.  Mapplethorpe's work, however, will offend quite a few people.  I think, by contrast, only the most prudish of people would be offended by \\"Nudes Index I\\" or \\"Eros.\\"  OTOH, you say you want the one done by the really first rate major artist?  Well, you're right back to the Mapplethorpe book then.  Truth be told, I bought all three so don't look to me as to which book should be eliminated! One fact mystifies me.  I spent the same price at Half Price Books on \\"Nudes Index I\\" that Amazon is selling it for new.  Mine was supposed to be used but it looks new.  Knowing you for sure are getting it new at $39.99 here is quite a deal for this art book filled with photos on each and every page. Both \\"Nudes Index I\\" and \\"Eros\\" would make good gifts as well to your artistic or intellectual friends.  I don't know if I'd buy anyone but myself the Mapplethorpe book as a gift.  So I did.  \\"Thanks, Carol.\\"  \\"You're welcome, Carol.\\"<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-12-12
US	50605810	R1QQHGJ1V53XTN	2880464218	492144537	Figure & Portrait (Paint! Series)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Should Get An Award For Best Layout	One would think that art books would automatically have the best visual layouts of any books.  I wish that were true!  This book is probably the best layout for a how-to book I've yet seen.  You can open the book to any page and the visuals are so good and text so well integrated that you will learn something then and there.  This is wonderful because artists don't necessarily like progressing in art books from page 1 to the end.  However, most publishers assume that is the way that they do take in how-to material.  I work in mixed media and am currently concentrating on the human figure and face.  Thus, this book perfectly suits me.<br /><br />The author is also open to a variety of styles and is not focused on only one style.  I too like variety in style.  Someone who is still trying to choose a medium should also benefit from this book as you can easily see the benefits and detriments of each as applied to this subject matter. However, if you are solely focused on one medium, rendered in one style, on one small portion of the human body or face, then this may not be a good choice for you. Although, then I think you especially could stand to have your artistic vision given a bit broader and looser scope than that description implies.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-12-12
US	50605810	R38TYMZIJ7MJ1O	0451201213	893638479	A Grand Design	Books	4	14	19	N	N	Very Good Within Regency Subgenre	I very much enjoyed this regency romance. I have been having a tough time reading regencies though since reading Marjorie Fassman's \\"Diary of Henry Fitzwilliam Darcy,\\" a companion piece to Austen's \\"Pride and Prejudice\\" and Colin Firth's interpretation of Mr. Darcy as done for the A&E video series. Fassman ruined me for anything other than regencies as done by Jane Austen and Carla Kelly and those are fairly august standards.  So this Jensen may well be a 5 star read for you instead of a 4 star. It is witty with a heroine who is an architect hidden within the family firm.  Her uncles are nominally the real architects but they are really artists who like nothing more than afternoons spent in the local pub.<br /><br />The house they are renovating is owned by the hero marquess, who is the love interest in the novel.  I have one minor quibble: I think no regency or romance author should again use the plot contrivance that everyone in the ton thinks that the hero murdered his first wife.  This has to be the most overdone plot prop in the romance genre and needs to be buried.  Everything else about the novel is great fun though and you can easily polish it off in an afternoon or an evening.  Emma Jensen is an author to watch and I liked her earlier \\"Best Laid Plans\\" almost as well as this one.  She has a witty and deft touch, essential to the regency romance.  She also has a great dog in the book, the Marquess's Welsh corgi which right away inches me towards 4.5 stars.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-12-12
US	50605810	R3V3DIZM25S48H	0375410570	746580901	The High Flyer	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Author Totally Different From Cashelmara Days!	I have not read Howatch for several decades, since her \\"Cashelmara\\" and \\"Penmarric\\" days.  I really loved those two novels, which were historical novels with strong romantic elements. Ordinarily I would not expect to like a novel where the author had \\"found religion\\" because such a book is usually preachy and proselytizing or, at least as written by Americans, it usually is.  I can accuse Howatch of neither flaw and perhaps it is her being English that gives her a wholly unique point of view regarding faith and religion.  She has most intelligently plumbed the depths of the English Anglican faith and applied it to a contemporary novel with romantic, suspense and paranormal genre elements.  By rights, such a combination should be a complete mess.  However, she pulls it off, which takes enormous skill by an author. It probably could be classed as the thinking person's \\"Exorcist.\\"<br /><br />The heroine, Carter, is a high flying London lawyer who marries the same only to discover that he has deceived her on many levels.  Foremost among his deceptions is that he is involved with Mrs. Mayfield, a woman with esp powers who pulls him into occult practices.  Carter's personal legal assistant is a man and through him she meets ministers of the Anglican faith who counsel and protect those who are victims of such practices.  The only facet of this novel that some readers may not like is the actual counseling sessions Carter has with these ministers.  They unfold just as real time counseling sessions might unfold and are primarily rendered in dialogue. I found the subject matter so fascinating that reading all of this dialogue did not bother me.  However, those who are not interested in the religious elements of this story may find those slow going. Much to my delight, I found that Howatch wrote six other novels in this vein prior to this one so last night I began reading the first, \\"Glittering Images.\\"<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-12-10
US	50605810	R1D9V0XWMK8296	1556704879	435838865	Eros	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Absolutely Gorgeous Nude Photography	These are the most wonderful nude photographs imaginable.  They are not as shocking as the Mapplethorpe photographs but they are as artistic and as sensuous as his are.  Unfortunately, you have to buy your copy used.  That's the way I had to buy mine.  I have bought many other nude photography books new but, except for Mapplethorpe's work, none of them are as good as this book.  I spent a small fortune on photographer David Hamilton's book new, for example, and I look in Hamilton's book one tenth of the time I look inside this book.  This book contains both nude men and women plus couples.  You can't go wrong buying this book.  Get it while you can as my experience with great out of print books is that the price skyrockets before long.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-12-10
US	50605810	R3N1SWHTAELTTQ	1581800266	542869709	Colored Pencil Solution Book	Books	4	87	92	N	N	Very Good With Only One Drawback	There is a lot of good information for every colored pencil artist in this book.  I certainly have gotten my money's worth.  It is excellently organized and answers many questions and problems.  However, the sole style represented throughout is super realistic.  What you see pictured on the cover represents the one style shown throughout the book.  If this is not your style, and it is not mine, then some of the information you will have to try to adapt to your own style.  Some of the rest of the information you will not be able to adapt at all if you have a different style.  The colored pencil field desperately needs a book showing styles that are not so realistic.  I don't regret buying this book though.  Despite my having a radically different style from theirs, there was still a lot of information for me to glean from its pages.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-12-04
US	50605810	RBDLER5F626FO	0446525502	717558254	The Rescue	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Romance Novel From Male Point-of-View	It is just about unheard of for a romance novel to be written from the male perspective. Author Nicholas Sparks stepped into that void with this novel.  Daring further, to go where no man has gone before, he presents the man's conflict as one that huge chunks of the population can turn to for empathy. The fire fighting hero's central conflict is with himself and his inability to commit in relationships.  In addition to rescuing people literally, his tendency is to be a rescuer personality in relationships too.  He steps in and rescues a woman from a bad situation, only to desert her as soon as she is fixed.<br /><br />He has done this repeatedly and begins to repeat this pattern of his after rescuing a single mother and her son one night after they've been in a car collision. His biggest problem when trying to break this pattern, however, is that he won't talk to anyone about it and persists in a stubborn pattern of denial.  Legions of female romance readers would do well to read this novel and experience love as the other half of the population perceives it.  This book is a real eye opener in a very quiet but persistent way.  It seems a lot lighter while you are reading it than it really is.  As the conflict builds, you understand what a universal male conflict the author tackled.  He brings it to a very nice resolution.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-11-23
US	50605810	R1B51UCC2CKDVA	0312153236	979256691	A Company of Swans	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Why Do The Best Books Go Out Of Print (OOP)?	This book is not hard to find used or at a public library.  Otherwise, I would hate to get anyone's hopes up.  There is nothing worse than saying, \\"I just read a fabulous book and you will never be able to find it yourself.\\"  This novel is set in Europe and South America in the early 20th century before WWI, a time period I would like to see used more frequently. The heroine, Harriet, meets a little boy at an English estate who tells her she must somehow travel to South America and find his lost uncle to redeem his faltering estate.  Harriet enters a touring ballet company of \\"Swan Lake\\" as a dancer in the corps by running away from the stifling home of her father-professor in Cambridge, England.  The troupe travels to South America to perform and there she meets the hero, Rom, the lost uncle.<br /><br />There are some amazing coincidences in this book that you might not accept in a lesser work.  There are also some big misunderstandings between Harriet and Rom.  However, this novel is so well written by its Viennese author that those plot devices cause no annoyance whatsoever.  The author's writing style is quite distinct from an American's or a UK writer's style which I found a refreshing change since those two writing groups tend to dominate the market.  There are also many humorous moments and characters that will have you LOL as you read.  The prima ballerina and the insect professor, to name two, are absolutely hilarious.  I am now trying to find this author's other novels, all of which seem to be out of print and I can only hope that I beat you other auction aficionados to the punch!  Thanks to EP and LLF for recommending this over on an online message board.  You couldn't have been more right about this novel.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-11-17
US	50605810	R1UNRFID0NP9QR	0312264917	149069300	The Marsh King's Daughter	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Best Blended Historical Fiction With Romance Genre	English author Chadwick is the only author I can think of who manages to blend historical fiction with historical romance seamlessly from start to finish. I liked this novel better than her prior one, \\"The Love Knot\\", because this one gets to the story's central conflicts faster. Set in medieval times, like all of Chadwick's novels, Miriel and Nicholas are the lead characters, brought together when she nurses him to health in the convent where she is a novitiate.  Miriel escapes from the convent and follows Nicholas, only to steal part of the treasure he recovered in the marsh so she can make a new life for herself.<br /><br />This sets the stage for a very rich tapestry of medieval life to unfold, which has a full complement of characters including various people to whom Miriel and Nicholas are married.  The central villain is Miriel's second husband, Robert, whose evil acts as a wealthy merchant were common in this time period.  Nicholas and Miriel come together and apart throughout the novel.  For those readers who don't like lead character separations, this might be a problem but it was not one for me. If you like this novel, also read Chadwick's \\"The Conquest\\" and \\"Daughters Of The Grail,\\" other five star novels by her.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-11-15
US	50605810	R1DPTB7C6CP5TI	1575666065	987108217	Fascinated	Books	3	2	3	N	N	The 4 Top Romance-Erotica Writers At Bat Again	Erotica's problem is also working as fiction that has a plot, character development, and feeling. The only work for me that has ever totally transcended the stigma barrier of being erotica is my favorite film, \\"Last Tango In Paris.\\"  It manages to be a first rate work of art while also being sexually explicit and obsessed throughout. Its screenplay is also written for both men's and women's benefit.  \\"Last Tango\\" need not fear any competition from this anthology.  This anthology works fine as erotica for women but I doubt many men would like it because the point-of-view is slanted towards women being in control and power.  This anthology cannot compete with well-written historical romantic fiction either.  Robin Schone's novella is the best written and works best as fiction but does not work as well as erotica as Small's or Devine's.  Small's novella is very kinky and the prose is so purple, I found myself breaking into laughter at certain spots.  It almost reads like a parody of romance crossed with erotica.  Small knows how to set an erotica scene though and play it out for maximum effect.  I can see why she sells so many books.  I can't take much of Thea Devine's writing but her stream of consciousness style also basically works as erotica.  I also found myself breaking into laughter at several absurd junctures while reading Devine's work.  I tried reading the Susan Johnson novella but found it boring.<br /><br />The Johnson scores the lowest for me, not working on any level.  I didn't finish it.  I'm not sure Robin Schone is doing herself a favor by featuring her work with the other three authors.  She is the only one of the three trying to walk the tightrope between fiction and erotica, like \\"Last Tango In Paris\\" does.  She succeeds better with her blended style when she is on her own and in novel length.  I also wonder if she doesn't belong more in mainstream fiction since she prefers writing about unsettling themes and plots.  I always have the sense with her writing that she's holding herself back, not delivering a one-two punch to the reader because she's trying to remain within the confines of the romance genre's formula.  I believe she may do better artistically by abandoning any formula.  I've read one novel apiece for each author prior to this anthology and have read several by Johnson.  I've given three stars to this anthology.  It is four stars as erotica written for women but only two stars as romantic fiction.  The average figure between those two ratings is three stars and hence the grade.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.ng that she's holding herself back, not delivering a one-two punch to the reader because she's trying to remain within the confines of the romance genre's formula.  I believe she may do better artistically by abandoning any formula.  I've read one novel apiece for each author prior to this anthology and have read several by Johnson.  I've given three stars to this anthology.  It is four stars as erotica written for women but only two stars as romantic fiction.  The average figure between those two ratings is three stars and hence the grade.    Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-11-10
US	50605810	R33VBGZCDYMBMC	0345433351	389360086	The China Bride (The Bride Trilogy)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Still At The Top Of Her Form	It was incredibly wonderful to turn to this author's newest novel and discover that she hadn't abandoned her unique strengths simply because she has gone to hardback and become more well known.  I can say this about so few romance authors.  Putney invented two unique characters, an English lord and a Chinese-Scot woman. She brings the two together in China. Her details of what China is like for them in that time period held me spellbound, from the trade to the shrines to the role of women.  The action then shifts to England and Scotland.  I don't think the story lags here as much as the locale is familiar and thus less fascinating.<br /><br />Nevertheless, if this duo is going to become a married noble couple in the 19th century UK, we need to see how their relatives, friends, and business associates react to such a proposed match.  I also liked all of the eastern spiritual influences Putney brings into the novel, which reminds me of the similar job she did in \\"Uncommon Vows.\\" The heroine also redecorates the hero's English estate in the feng-shu style, bringing one's environment into spiritual harmony with the self according to Eastern principles, which I found humorous to envision in 19th century England.  One can buy everything this author has written with complete confidence.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-11-05
US	50605810	R1NK9PV9XJZZ4C	044023512X	186149727	City of Light	Books	5	5	5	N	N	My Return To Historical Fiction	I'm going to admit that this is my return in some time to historical fiction that has little to no genre elements.  I also read Elizabeth Chadwick's historical novels about England's medieval times but she always has a romance element running throughout her work as well.  This novel is not a murder mystery, a romance, sci-fi fantasy or any other acknowledged genre or genre combination.  I think this was the reason I found it absolutely fascinating and refreshing.  I never knew exactly where we were going in the book and I found that a welcome change.  Formulaic plotlines, which define genres and their characters, have been \\"getting to me\\", I'm afraid.  The other wonderfully refreshing aspect was setting the entire story in 1901 Buffalo, New York, and Niagara Falls.<br /><br />I have grown so tired of reading novels set in New York City, California or London, where it seems the great majority are set. When authors abandon those venues, they next turn to almost as well known cities until those too have been overdone to death.  If I do not read another book set in Florida, for example, it will not be too soon.  I am not a Buffalo native and I found 1901 Buffalo an absolutely riveting world.  I liked all of the details and learning of the historical figures which peopled it and the development of electricity at Niagara. I live on Lake Erie also, outside Cleveland, and historical aspects of being in the Great Lakes region a hundred years ago really captured my interest. If you read historical non-genre fiction all of the time, you have more novels to compare to this one than I presently do.  Thus, you might be aware of other novels that surpass this as a choice right now.  Personally, I don't.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.s and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-10-25
US	50605810	R31824FIGPC2MS	0399145990	217600181	The River King	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Beautifully Written Collage	I read one of Alice Hoffman's books some years ago and didn't particularly care for it.  Thus, I only read this novel because I'd read some really good reviews about it.  Much to my surprise, I really love Hoffman's work now.  Either she's gotten better or my taste has changed.  What Hoffman does best here is mix pieces from just about every writing genre and then combine them so as to make one lyrically written novel of mainstream fiction.  It is quite a feat and most authors cannot pull such combinations off.  She's got the romance genre covered with about six different characters but Abe, the policeman, and Betsy, the photographer-teacher, make up the romance that triumphs. Hoffman also covers the mystery genre by having a death take place that is either suicide or murder.<br /><br />The paranormal genre runs throughout the novel too, mixing with the atmospheric riverside school and town and enabling Hoffman to render beautiful imagery in our heads while we read.  Two significant ghosts, one dead long time and the other, the recent death, create a fourth dimension to the work.  Hoffman's language reminded me of Pat Conroy's in \\"Prince Of Tides,\\" which is the supreme compliment since that is one of my all time favorite novels.  I'm simply amazed at her accomplishment though since most authors fail when they try to combine even two genres, such as romance and mystery. Hoffman succeeds where they have not through sheer poetry of language and far reaching range of vision with her imagination.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-10-15
US	50605810	R3HXEN23PIK5S9	0380811987	373698911	Rules of Engagement (Governess Brides, Book 2)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Fun Romantic Comedy	Blythe and Linda recommended this recent release in their \\"Pandora's Box\\" on one of the web's romance review sites.  Although, I can't recommend it quite as highly as they did, this is a very enjoyable romantic comedy and a good evening's entertainment. What readers will appreciate best is its combination of LOL humor with quite steamy sex.  The heroine disguises herself as an ugly, much older governess to enter the employ of the titled, wealthy hero.  He is trying to shore up his reputation for the good of his bank. His unique method is to adopt an orphan and hire a governess to make himself appear noble, unselfish and sentimental before Queen Victoria, who is fed up with his bachelor, unfettered existence.<br /><br />I liked this comedy almost as much as Dodd's earlier \\"That Scandalous Evening\\" about a heroine who sculpted the nude statute of a prominent nobleman but was all off on the size of what a man really looked like because she didn't know any better. That was a hilarious premise also and Dodd is especially good at taking the wind out of the sails of puffed up male aristocrats in both books.  I've read some other books of hers and these two are her best because she sticks with what she does best, romantic comedy.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-10-13
US	50605810	R2P5AABU174DVM	0553582313	451605153	First Kiss	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Breaks Convention Plus Very Good	One wouldn't think that it would be a genre making move to write about a heroine who is not a virgin.  However, the romance genre remains unwilling generally to use other kinds of heroines even with its contemporary romance novels.  Thus, author Pappano really bucked that convention by writing about a heroine with a colorful and significant sexual history, who is 37 years old.  That neither she nor the hero want children is groundbreaking as well.  Essentially, the novel is about two experienced people who fight about whether they can reinvent themselves into a sedate married couple.  He thinks they can; she thinks they can't.<br /><br />The heroine's immediate family members are also characters and help us understand how she came to her way of thinking about relationships, especially marriages, not being workable.  It's a very good novel, well written but not particularly gripping.  It was easy enough for me to put it down and pick it up a day later without any sense of urgency.  Ultimately, it just didn't tug on my emotional heartstrings enough.  It typically takes that emotional reaction for me to put a novel on my own personal list of five star books.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-10-04
US	50605810	R61R25VFCYNPZ	0385335318	466643093	More than a Mistress	Books	2	12	17	N	N	Mary Balogh Lite And I Want Her Back The Old Way!	Author Balogh easily brought on the weepies for me in her earlier novels.  She also took a lot of risks by trying out new ideas for the Regency period than less daring writers were willing to try.  In \\"Dancing With Clara\\", for example, she married off a rich young woman in a wheelchair to a young man who was a compulsive gambler.  In her masterpiece, \\"Longing,\\" she uses the harsh coal mining industry in Victorian Wales to develop a relationship between a mine owner and the illegitimate daughter of another mine owner.  I must have gone through an entire box of kleenex reading \\"Longing.\\"  In her last few novels, however, I've noticed a disturbing trend. Her novels are becoming lighter and lighter weight. This novel is perhaps her lightest to date.  First, she uses a basic idea that author Jane Feather used in her novel \\"Vice\\".  That is, a young woman on the run from murder ends up becoming the mistress of a duke to further elude the law.<br /><br />Balogh's telling of the tale isn't nearly as inventive as Feather's, however.  I infinitely preferred \\"Vice\\" which didn't pull any punches on depicting a duke as he might really act during the Regency. Second, the hero and heroine spend the last portion of the book dithering over their hurt feelings and whose feelings were hurt worst and further drivel of this nature.  I did enjoy the middle of the book where the hero let his artistic nature show to the heroine.  His having musical and painting talent were literally beaten out of him as a boy because it wasn't in keeping with his ducal future.  If only Balogh had fully developed this aspect of the story!  That's what the earlier Balogh would have done.  As is all too frequently seen with romance writers, when they finally come out in hardback, what was unique about their earlier work has been pounded out of them by their current publishers so that they can now presumably appeal in this lighter format to everyone. Message to the publisher: Count me out.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-09-29
US	50605810	R8E2E1DQNWZOQ	0380977567	206715463	Cross Dressing	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Absolutely Hilarious For This Lapsed Catholic!	I don't know if you will find this as hilarious as I did if you have no Catholicism in your past.  However, if you do, this cross-pollinating of the Roman Catholic Church with the advertising industry was LOL funny. An ad man, on the lam from the law, is forced to pass himself off as a priest using his twin brother's clothes and job.  Naturally, he brings all of his talents for media spin and hype to use against the church when it tries to close down his job site, The Care Center.  This could have only been set in L.A. for maximum effect and it is.  I must read Fitzhugh's earlier books now that I've read this one.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-09-29
US	50605810	R2MW1REXXJMNXS	0380730405	39495389	Rebecca	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A Must Read Book Followed by Hitchcock's Must-See Movie!	There are very few novels that are followed by equally splendid movie versions. \\"Rebecca\\" is one of those few.  Written in the first person, \\"I\\" (she is never given another name) marries wealthy widower Max De Winter.  When she accompanies him to his estate, Manderly, she comes to suspect that he and everyone who surrounds him is still besotted with his beautiful, dead wife, Rebecca. The housekeeper, Mrs. Danvers, almost drives her crazy with always comparing her to that eternal paragon of beauty and delight. The novel seems to be set in the 1920s or 1930s in England.  It was released as a movie in 1940 by Alfred Hitchcock and won many Oscars.<br /><br />Laurence Olivier played Max and Joan Fontaine played \\"I\\".  Both the novel and the movie present marvelous elements of romance and mystery in a time period that is not used frequently enough for fiction. There is one difference between the novel and the film.  Because of the rigid code of censorship existing then in Hollywood, Max is not as morally ambiguous in the film as he ultimately is in the novel.  It makes no difference to me because I love both versions equally. I am not surprised that both have proven to be enduring classics. If you are feeling burned out by too many modern bad novels and even worse movies, try these two classics which have easily withstood the test of time.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-09-24
US	50605810	R1168Y2QASY79X	0451402448	56477257	Uncommon Vows (Onyx)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	I Agree: MJP's Best Novel	I have to join in with the other Amazon reviewers who feel that this is  the best novel Putney ever wrote. Of course, I don't consider any of her  novels duds.  Probably the worst book she ever wrote is a \\"B\\"; I  don't even know which that would be since there are so many \\"A\\"s  to her credit.  This is a very complex novel with an equally complex hero.  You meet him at story's beginning at a monastery where he is almost a monk.  However, his family has just been slaughtered so he must give up the  religious life to become the earl and leader of their district.  The  problem is that the monastery kept all of his dark impulses in check but he  now fears that they will come to the forefront in this new role.  And, boy,  is he right!  I think this novel could have been released as mainstream  fiction for its complexity.  However, it also meets the basics of what's  required in a romance novel.  Don't let its medieval setting deter you.  Putney brings that era to life wonderfully.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-09-15
US	50605810	R32BP4LNUNZAQY	0312874510	86825886	Spotlight	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Very Good But Hero Needs Rounded Development	I enjoyed reading this novel and considered it well written and very good.  However, the  hero, Devin, is such a perfect person that I had trouble  making him real in my mind. He is an Irish Catholic rock star who is more  popular and better looking than Bono of U2. He gives most of his money away  to peace seeking charities.  He also has not had sex in several years since  his wife was caught on an IRA terrorist mission as a perpetrator. Devin  lives like a monk despite women literally ripping their clothes off in  front of him and throwing themselves at him.<br /><br />The only bad things one can  say about him are that he's moody sometimes and that he doesn't tell the  heroine the whole truth about his life until forced to do so.  By contrast,  Bellacera's other novel featured a Trinity college professor as the lead,  who had his priorities in life confused, and let his own stubbornness and  misplaced loyalty get him deeper and deeper into the Irish Catholic cause  at the peril of losing his wife and child. I preferred the intimate, human  scale of \\"Border Crossings\\", with its well rounded hero, to the  superstar setting of \\"Spotlight\\" and its superhuman hero.  Nevertheless, Bellacera is a very good writer and wrote a rousing tale with  \\"Spotlight\\".<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-09-06
US	50605810	RIQN0A70R6ERI	0312206763	694468513	Stately Pursuits	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Enjoyable, Light Read	This is a pleasant, well written enough novel. It is also \\"Exhibit  A\\" on how an Englishwoman writes a romance differently from an  American woman. For one, it is so much quieter and drier than an American  romance.  It is set in a village of English eccentrics (is there any other  kind?), which is intent on preserving local businesses. The heroine decides  to help the village save the historical house she has been assigned to  house-sit.  While she and the villagers are busy making it ready for  tourist house tours, enter the hero and heir to the house.  He is Connor  Barrabin, nicknamed Conan the Barbarian because he would like to sell the  house to an amusement park.  You'll have an enjoyable enough time with this  novel but you will hardly be riveted to every page.  I'm unsure if I want  to read anymore of this author's work.  I think I may personally require  more gripping material.  If you like light, dry English comedies, however,  this may be just your...er...cup of tea.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-09-05
US	50605810	R2RHRAKZZYSGA	0812575733	375756038	Border Crossings	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Absolutely Gripping Novel!	If you are in the mood for a very gripping read from start to finish, this  is the book. I was absolutely fascinated by the story of a husband and wife  forced to return to Northern Ireland when his brother is assassinated.  The  brother was a councilor in the political party that is allied to the  illegal IRA, and that is where the hero of this story is supposed to resume  his life: in that role.  He comes to this as a history professor from  Trinity College in Dublin.<br /><br />Bad as this is for him, multiply it by a  hundred for his wife and child who have to live in daily fear, violence and  hatred after moving in with his solidly IRA supportive family.  The  mounting crisis becomes whether the wife will be able to continue to bear  living in Northern Ireland for either the rest of her life or until  whenever her husband is the next assassin's victim.  I couldn't put this  novel down and am eagerly awaiting mail delivery of her second book,  \\"Spotlight,\\" about an Irish rock star and his IRA wife.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-08-25
US	50605810	R2ZILR7Y3PSLYI	0060193751	3230845	Circle of Three: A Novel	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Ruth Is A Female Holden Caufield	This is not a novel that you plunge right through.  It is way too  observant for that.  I read it about fifty to a hundred pages at a time  because I needed to reflect upon what I'd read.  I was raised with my  mother's and grandmother's living in close proximity and alternating with  me, like these women characters do.  Gaffney got the dynamic 100% right for  that situation.  I got a lot out of all three women but the absolute  treasure is Ruth, the adolescent.  I haven't read this good an adolescent  since Salinger's \\"Catcher In The Rye\\" and Judith Guest's  \\"Ordinary People.\\"<br /><br />Every scene with Ruth is memorable: from her  making out with her boyfriend on her father's grave, to getting the wrong  female symbol tattooed on her hand when she's on the lam in Washington, DC,  to hiding out in her health food guru-employer's apartment after she's  learned of her mother's love life in the hardest way possible. There is a  marvelous device Gaffney uses with all three women too.  This is the way  women have of criticizing their husbands to the child they had with that  husband!  The grandmother does it to the daughter, Carrie, and Carrie does  it to her daughter, Ruth.  Each of them has the exact same problem with  hearing her own father criticized too, no matter how just the comment which  was made.<br /><br />The novel is filled with universal moments between and among the  generations that are like this. Gaffney has a sense of humor as well,  albeit a dry one, with her having Ruth's mother, Carrie, an artist, build a  Noah's ark with all the animals and then float it to save an old man's  soul.  This is a different novel from \\"Saving Graces\\" so don't  pick this one up expecting to pick up where you left off. Gaffney is  somewhat famous for this among her longtime fans though.  Read, for  example, her \\"To Have & To Hold\\" if you want a novel that's  radically different from both \\"Saving Graces\\" and \\"Circle Of  Three.\\"<br /><br />Of all the romance writers who have tried to transition to  general, mainstream fiction, in my opinion only Gaffney has really made the  whole journey.  The rest have non-romance covers and are shelved in general  fiction or mystery but only Gaffney has made the transition wholly within  the pages of the book itself as well. My only criticism is that I would  have preferred seeing the three women at the graveside of Ruth's  father/Carrie's husband on the cover.  That site is used as an important  setting several times in the book. I can't remember anyplace set for the  three women to eat outside, which is the cover image used.  If not the  graveside scene, the Noah's ark reenactment would be nice for the cover.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.ion to  general, mainstream fiction, in my opinion only Gaffney has really made the  whole journey.  The rest have non-romance covers and are shelved in general  fiction or mystery but only Gaffney has made the transition wholly within  the pages of the book itself as well. My only criticism is that I would  have preferred seeing the three women at the graveside of Ruth's  father/Carrie's husband on the cover.  That site is used as an important  setting several times in the book. I can't remember anyplace set for the  three women to eat outside, which is the cover image used.  If not the  graveside scene, the Noah's ark reenactment would be nice for the cover.    Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-08-21
US	50605810	RAB3XCOTPNAF9	0671034073	421300008	Irish Fire	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Baker Writes A Contemporary Instead Of A Paranormal Novel!	In a significant departure, Jeanette Baker writes a totally contemporary  novel set almost entirely in Ireland.  There are no shifts in time periods  and no ghosts.  I enjoyed this book very much but I can't grade it quite as  high as her \\"Irish Lady,\\" which did contain those elements.  There are also no political problems for the characters to deal with and a  complete absence of the IRA, also unlike \\"Irish Lady.\\"  Instead,  Baker uses the horse country of both Ireland and Kentucky to tell her tale  of a wife who leaves her philandering, alcoholic husband back on their  Kentucky horse farm estate.<br /><br />She returns to her childhood village in  Ireland, along with her two children, and moves in with her mother.  A  famous track is located nearby and that is what the heroine needs.  Breeding and training thoroughbred horses is her sole career interest and  Ireland has only very recently been receptive to women entering the field.  America, especially Kentucky, was open to women being in this field much  earlier.  The hero of the book is the head person at the major, very well  funded \\"yard\\", the Irish word for \\"horse farm.\\"<br /><br />This  novel has many fascinating characters, which Baker develops very well.  One  also learns quite a bit about breeding these purebred horses, including the  inbreeding of them and the resulting, hereditary medical problems. I was  quite fascinated with this horse material, especially about a hereditary  disease that horses can carry from bad breeding practices.  \\"Irish  Fire\\" is a very engaging story but not one that you'd want to read  again and again.  However, I doff my hat to Baker, who may have temporarily  been out of paranormal ideas, and tried something different instead.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.eavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-08-15
US	50605810	R22XCYG15PY6IZ	1585710148	172883479	Words of the Pitcher (Red Slipper Romance)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Novel Idea, Fresh Voice, Plus My Hometown Baseball Team!	An author is halfway home with me when she sets her story in my hometown  and has the characters go to all my favorite local hangouts.  This was also  a very fresh idea of a Japanese hero, who is a baseball pitcher for our  nationally renowned team, and his female interpreter from our local  university.  I learned a lot about the problems a Japanese person carries  around from his heritage regarding picking a spouse.  An American does not  have the same problems. Nevertheless, this novel is a bit rough around the  edges and falls into romantic clich&eacute; traps here and there, especially with  the overly innocent, virginal heroine.  This is a new author, however,  trying to open up a whole new area of interracial romance and she succeeds  more than she doesn't.  I wish there were a 3.5 star category because that  is more precisely where this novel ranks with a grade.  This would probably  make a very popular movie.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-08-09
US	50605810	R347GOXUO1A29B	0452281636	68466902	Ralph's Party:  A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Extremely Enjoyable, Fast, Original & Fresh	This is a little gem of a book that the author wisely kept under 300  pages. I loved the story of Ralph and Jem, who find their way to one  another through the trials and tribulations of her, first, being with his  best friend and, then, Ralph's jump-starting himself as an artist with Jem  as his inspiration.  Another couple, a radio deejay and his  live-in-girlfriend of fifteen years, come to a heads-on collision over his  infidelity, which he shares with all of London on his radio show.<br /><br />I read  this in one gulp.  I found this novel more original than so many of these  single people in present day London stories.  It could be because this is  the author's first novel and so her voice is very fresh.  It may also be  that she seems to have caught the males' points-of-view so well in the  story.  Women writers often have men behave as women would like men to  behave but not as they really do.  Jewell does not fall into that trap.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-08-07
US	50605810	RAGGWITOI13KM	0810937522	263724334	Rauschenberg	Books	5	13	13	N	N	I'd Grab It While Running From A Burning House!	I didn't originally like Rauschenberg's art from the 1960s, which I had  seen locally. So I was amazed to chance upon a show of his I loved at the  National Gallery of Art in the early 1990s.  I spent hour upon hour looking  at this show.  Each was a masterpiece of modern art using multiple devices  and techniques.  It was dizzying.  Then, I HAD to have this book so I could  study this marvelous artist and take in the whole of his career.<br /><br />It's hard  for me to now imagine how anyone could dislike his work as he seemingly  does it all in art.  He can incorporate the real with the abstract  seamlessly.  He flows from one medium to another, seemingly without effort,  incorporating them all together into one \\"painting\\" (I don't know  what else to call them but they are unlike anyone else's paintings).  I  like his art best from the 1980s and 1990s but he was always pushing the  envelope.  Published by Abrams, the book itself is perfection and displays  the art beautifully.  If you want to open yourself to modern art and mixed  media, this is the artist for you to embrace.  This book is your starting  point.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-08-06
US	50605810	R3EQ5WE8N6MFTY	0380802317	746993091	Where Dreams Begin	Books	3	21	33	N	N	OK Read But Lacks Magic Of Her Earlier Work	I used to love Lisa Kleypas' romance novels.  Many of them were perfect 5  star books such as \\"Dreaming Of You\\", \\"Then Came You\\"  and \\"Because You're Mine\\".  The heroes in these books were  unbelievably wonderful and not necessarily titled lords.  One hero was a  gambling hall owner and another the lead actor of his day.  I wouldn't part  with these books for the world.  However, her last three books, including  this one, have been below the high marks she earned for these other works.  This novel stars a hero who is an imitation of Derek, her gambling hall  owner.  This time he is an incredibly wealthy, ostentatious business  entrepreneur.  He is not nearly as well developed as Derek was in  \\"Dreaming Of You,\\" however.<br /><br />The heroine is almost too good to be  true, a widow still in love with her dead husband who comes to give the  hero and his family lessons in manners.  The other problem is that her  novel reminds me of others' novels as far as the basic idea.  Judith  Ivory's \\"The Proposition\\" (derived from \\"My Fair  Lady\\"), for one, and, even more so, Megan McKinney's \\"Lions and  Lace\\". If you haven't read Kleypas' earlier work, it is possible you  may like this novel a lot better than I did.  I think Kleypas needs to do  something really radical to her writing though to turn this drift downwards  around.  Perhaps she should write in another period of time, and/or another  country and/or another genre to regain her freshness and originality. They  used to be her stock in trade.  I believe these earlier books, referred to  above, are still in print if you want to try one of them out first.  I'd  recommend it.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.day.	2000-08-06
US	50605810	R21Y9NTQPU6G6U	1576870537	927524430	Life Is Paradise	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Artist  Is A Great Talent But  His Publisher Is A Butcher	This is wonderful painting and you will find yourself sighing over what should have been.  I must agree with the other reviewers at Amazon, who say  this is the worst designed book they've ever seen.  It's too true.  Yes,  the dead center, binding portion of the book (called the gutter) is where  you'll find the crucial part of many of the portraits!  To say this hinders  the viewing experience is about as mild a statement as one can make.<br /><br />If I  were Clemente, I would want this book recalled as a defective product and  the manufacturer (publisher) made to come up with a new one, just like with  a defective automobile (The Lemon Law).  So why am I giving it a 3 star  rating?  Clemente's art works are a 5 star event.  Seeing them under these  circumstances is better than not seeing them. The gorgeous cover portrait  is representative of Clemente's work shown in this book.  The color  reproductions themselves seem quite fine; it is solely an issue of design  placement of the images.  I'm not sorry I bought it; I do wish I had gotten  it at half price though!<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-08-05
US	50605810	R2VP87BIT0UCGQ	0553580132	158048028	Painted by the Sun	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Does Old West Well	Many romance novels set in the old West (1875 Colorado for this book) are really thin on historical accuracy.  Elizabeth Grayson is a nice exception  to this rule.  Almost everyone in this novel is now located in the West  because of something bad which happened to them during the Civil War,  regardless of their side in that war.  Shea is trying to recover her son  who she put on an orphan train heading West rather than let him starve to  death in the East.  Her photography profession pays her way.  Grayson is  extremely realistic on how difficult and cumbersome photography was before  our own \\"point and shoot\\" camera times.<br /><br />Since all of the novel's  characters live in the shadows of the past, photography was a very apt  medium to use in this book.  (Photography, done well, manipulates light and  shadow to produce haunting images.)  Cam is a judge in Denver who adopted  an orphan train boy. He lives in continual fear of a shameful secret from  his Civil War past coming to light.  The romance is, of course, between  Shea and Cam but this book also has very well developed secondary  characters.  I felt this book was a very good read but it is not so  gripping or emotion-evoking that you will think it one of the best books  you've ever read.  I would describe it as being a very solid \\"B\\".<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-08-02
US	50605810	R26KQ1QTJBI930	0441304834	453010069	Guilty Pleasures (Anita Blake Vampire Hunter)	Books	3	20	26	N	N	Imaginative But May Repel You	I've read this first book and have two more of the series in my to-be-read pile.  I don't know what to do: read the remaining two or sell them.  Here's my quandary: This writer has a terrific imagination. She puts  together a world with vampires unlike anyone else's to date.  Her vampires  have full legal rights and protections and her female protagonist, Anita,  is in the business of hunting them as well as zombies. Then there's a  possible love interest with Jean Claude, a top vampire. These elements are  all well done but the kicker is that much of the material is so vividly  realized that it can actually repel a reader, as it did this reader.<br /><br />Hamilton writes some unbelievably creepy scenes.  One, set in a cemetery,  with her killing a zombie she digs up, while she wards off vampires who  attack her, is one you do not want to read at 3am alone in the house!  She  also has a scene at the vampire hangout involving rats that was highly  disturbing.  Ironically, I've heard from countless romance readers about  how much they love these novels yet it is the last series I would have  picked out for them as a probable read.  I loved the original Bram Stoker  \\"Dracula\\", the Coppola film of \\"Dracula\\" starring Gary  Oldman , and Anne Rice's \\"Interview With A Vampire\\" and \\"The  Vampire Lestat.\\"<br /><br />However, the Hamilton vampires may simply be too  much for me.  I realize that \\"character development\\" may not be a  big element in this first book but I did feel that the characters were  better developed in the earlier vampire works I've listed than in  Hamilton's novel. My friends tell me that more character development will  take place over the rest of the series.  I honestly don't know whether I'll  continue with the Hamilton books or not but I will grant you that she has  created a heck of a fictional world that you won't easily forget.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.iday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-08-01
US	50605810	R29UKMBHA8F3QO	0451408888	475370067	The Trials of Tiffany Trott	Books	3	11	11	N	N	Mainly Read It For Some Laughs	I will say that this novel can be funny.  However, a book length riff on a 37 year old career woman's endless dates wears thin after awhile.  Dismayed that all of her friends are marrying, TT dates just about every nightmare  guy you can imagine, some courtesy of dating bureaus and personals' ads.  These encounters can be really hilarious. The best guy of the bunch is  married and looking for an affair, claiming he can't get a divorce. One  annoying thing that TT does throughout is give stinging, witty comebacks to  other characters and then tell you, in the next breath, she didn't have the  nerve to say that after all.  She only wished she could say it.  If this  was meant to be a comic device, it didn't work for me.  Romance readers may  not be happy with the ending, which is ambiguous instead of definitive with  Mr. Right.  An ambiguous ending was ok with me because I was never  convinced TT really knew what she wanted in a man or a marriage.  She  seemed suited to being single.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-07-31
US	50605810	R1MRS4FUW4I6IS	0764506102	166351254	eBay For Dummies	Books	4	21	27	N	N	Very Helpful But Could Have Been More Visual	I will admit that anytime I have to learn anything new with computers, I just cringe, since my talents are not in that direction. But setting up auctions for the sale of items on ebay mandated that I plunge into yet  another round of reference books allied to computer use.  The  &quot;Dummies&quot; books seemed well titled for me and this was the first  of them I've tried. I did glean a lot of information from reading this  book. I ended up improving my listings on ebay so that they look better,  for one.  I'm still not as far along as I'd like though because I do even  better with computer and allied computer books which are very heavily  illustrated. So I still want to buy an ebay book which has profuse  illustrations on every page, many in color, to further my ability with the  ebay auctions. For example, showing a sample of a gallery page, alongside a  page that is items with gallery previews, would have told me instantly what  ebay was trying to accomplish with that distinction.  Without seeing that  illustrated, however, I just had to stumble around ebay and figure it out  for myself.  Reading about something that visual in this book didn't bring  the concept home to me.  Now I want to learn FrontPage 2000 for computers.  This time, however, I ordered one of those visual books instead to see if I  can learn how-to-do FP 2000 in one go.	2000-07-28
US	50605810	R3GQGDAF0F04AM	0451409256	208908626	Making Minty Malone	Books	4	17	20	N	N	Enjoyable But Too Many Of These Books	I enjoyed this book and found it light, funny entertainment.  However, there may now be too many of this \\"Bridget Jones\\" or \\"Lucy Sullivan\\" type book in the marketplace.  They all feature a single  heroine who lives and works in London.  She navigates the rocky shoals of  her love and career lives with an assortment of oddball characters.  This  novel has many charms but all of these books do.  Dominic, the fianc&eacute;,  literally leaves Minty, the heroine, at the altar in front of 280 wedding  guests.  This is a huge blow to her self-esteem and the remainder of the  book details her recovery.  In that process, she also meets the hero and  gets a leg up on her career in talk radio.  Secondary characters are very  funny.  There is her cousin, Amber, who does not ever need to take  assertiveness training but who goes for it with Minty.<br /><br />Minty's  charity-addicted fundraising mother embraces every weird cause that exists.  Her news anchor at work, Melinda, can't pronounce her \\"r\\"s but  finds her true calling in an early morning show for insomniacs where she  reviles the guests.  Plus there's an obnoxious interviewee who lauds  herself as mother and wife for the radio show, while dumping on all other  women not married and with children.  The comedic possibilities with  Dominic, an insurance salesman solely focused on his upscale career and  lifestyle, could have been more fully exploited.  The funniest scene in the  book is his backing out of the wedding by telling the minister he thinks  \\"not\\" when he asks him if he will take Minty as his bride.  Without any explanation, he then turns, marches down the aisle, alone, and  leaves the church.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-07-23
US	50605810	R4QCBV48QRDJA	0966077814	896144444	The Diary of Henry Fitzwilliam Darcy	Books	5	92	95	N	N	Ladies, You'll Place This One In Your Keeper Hall Of Fame!	If you love the novel \\"Pride & Prejudice\\", plus love its A&E series on video with Colin Firth, you will simply adore this newest addition to that heavenly constellation by Fasman.  She was inspired to  write Darcy's diary after seeing Firth play him and, boy, does it show!  Wow!  Fasman gives us Darcy's side to the whole story plus includes his  life prior to meeting Elizabeth and their life after they are married.  I  was so \\"into\\" this diary that I spaced out reading the final 60  pages over 2 days because I couldn't stand finishing it!  I only do this  when I am head-over-heels with a book; I can't even remember the last time  that happened, it was so long ago.  Darcy's physically passionate longings  and fulfillment are also portrayed along with a fully developed rationale  for Darcy's pride-of-behavior.<br /><br />Fasman was a screenwriter up until 1945.  She stopped writing then and THIS was her first effort, in 1998, after that  long absence.  All creative people should be lucky enough to experience  this kind of \\"comeback\\".  It is a beautifully bound and printed  trade edition paperback with lovely cut-out figures of Darcy and Elizabeth  on front and back covers.  I don't recognize its small publisher though  and, be warned, it took me 6 weeks to obtain it. Why this is such a  hard-to-find book defies my comprehension.  This should be in much wider  distribution though because every woman in love with Colin Firth's  portrayal of Darcy will want her own copy of this book.  I think the only  way I will be able to recover from finishing this book is to watch yet  again the whole video series of Firth playing Darcy.  Too bad I'm only  allowed to give a 5 here; I'd love to give it a 10!<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.es and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-07-19
US	50605810	RGHFYQFV6SMO9	0553576194	954184822	Sweet Talking Man	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Light, Entertaining Romance	I can't equate this novel with Krahn's best novel, \\"The Last Bachelor\\".  In that one she had hero and heroine on opposite sides of an issue in the Victorian era, just as she does in this one.  \\"Bachelor\\", however, was absolutely LOL hilarious as well.  This  is an extremely likable couple nonetheless. A struggling Irish politician,  who is virtually in the pocket of New York City's Tammany Hall, up against  a wealthy widow suffragette, determined to open her own bank for women,  provide us with many early Tracy vs. Hepburn feuding but romantic moments.  This alone makes it worth buying. It is a big improvement over her last  novel, \\"The Soft Touch\\", which I couldn't even finish. The  stepback (inner cover on two facing pages) by cover artist Franco Accornero  is a knock out portrait of the two romantic lead characters and just may  push you over the edge into buying it. I know it did the trick for me! If  you are wavering, buy Krahn's \\"The Last Bachelor\\" instead, which  is a solid 5 star read.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-07-17
US	50605810	R2K134QUZ6CVBH	0451200489	787789104	Close Encounters	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Another Great Interracial Story!	This is my 5th novel by Kitt and she scores again with me.  When a white male cop shoots, and almost kills, an innocent bystander black female, in a crossfire with drug suspects, an unusual bond is forged between the two  people. They form a relationship they both feel impelled towards, although  neither the police department nor her lawyer want the two to see one  another at all. A lawsuit will have to flow from this event, which will  make the cops in New York city look racist. I thought this was a very  unusual story idea and Kitt managed to make it convincing and believable.  Meanwhile, the criminal forces unleashed during the crossfire continue to  menace the lead characters. Kitt also does kids well and the cop's daughter  is a very good character trying to work out her adolesence after her  parents' divorce. Signet also gives Kitt great graphic covers for her  novels, depicting the characters. These are very reader-friendly for  drawing a mixed-race audience. The cover subtly conveys the mixed races  which photographs, used on her earlier books, did not. Kitt also wrote the  equally terrific \\"The Color Of Love\\" and \\"Between  Friends.\\" You can't go wrong with this author.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-07-13
US	50605810	R2CMKSYJHH4X08	0451164938	652993826	The Stranger Beside Me: Revised and Updated Edition	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Real Thing Is So Much More Compelling	Ann Rule did it all.  She knew Ted Bundy before she knew he was a serial killer and after she'd finally accepted he was one.  She was also an experienced crime reporter who understood the legal system and sat through  the legal proceedings as they dragged on and on.  Meanwhile, Bundy kills  throughout, with the worst being after he escapes from his first prison.  Rule even links him with yet an earlier murder in his hometown when he was  only 15, showing he started killing even earlier than she'd previously  supposed. I read the 35th printing of this book, which is no small  testimony to how right she's painted the portrait. If you're going to read  about a serial killer, there's nothing like the real thing.  I read this on  a plane ride to Florida and, although I normally detest flying, I barely  noticed I was in a plane, I was so engrossed in this book.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-07-11
US	50605810	R14NYJJPXXLZT4	0812539281	999206420	Under Pressure	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Sexual Harassment In Fashion Industry	This was a pretty good tale of sexual harassment and the boss was certainly very realistically portrayed.  He is seen from 3 women employees'  points of view and we thus learn their 3 stories.  It may have been better  to reduce the women to two so we could have gotten more depth on the  characters.  As it is, the characters are developed in rather broad  strokes. One of these women has a problem of her own.  She is stalking her  former fiance, who is an employee of the same company. She gets  progressively more out of control until the police are called to arrest  her.  The cover on this book is what caught my eye. It is striking, in red  and black on a white background; the photo of a woman in a doorway facing a  desk and a briefcase.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-07-09
US	50605810	R1T3PXOBW9M92O	0312205406	963436946	Hot Six	Books	3	7	10	N	N	It's Getting To Be "Same Old Thing"	I read #s 1-5 last summer and enjoyed them a lot, rating them collectively as 4s, a fun, good time with lots of laughs.  This summer, with book #6, all I can say is that it was enjoyable. I had some good laughs but I think  I'm growing tired of the series.  For one thing, the romance with Joe  and/or Ranger just drags on and on and I want some conclusion to it with  one or the other guy. Secondly, the characters who are still scoring with  me are all secondary, such as Grandma and Lula.  Thirdly, the resolution of  \\"High Five\\"'s cliffhanger ending in #6's prologue was a real  letdown for me.<br /><br />My expectations were a lot wilder and offbeat.  It is  difficult to gain excitement with a book when you start with a letdown  feeling. This may just be me though as I don't do well with these books in  mystery that have the same lead characters book after book in a seemingly  endless series. I think Sherlock Holmes was the only character I lasted  with through every single tale in the same degree of fascination from first  tale to last tale.  So, if you like these same lead characters being in  book after book, your grade will probably be higher than mine and you  should go for it.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-07-06
US	50605810	R2K05QPIKJA7EC	1551665700	107974389	Whiskey Island	Books	5	7	7	N	N	I May Be Biased Because Set Here!	This novel is set in Cleveland, my home town, so I may have been more fascinated than others will be by this compelling tale. I also went to all Catholic schools with many Irish kids which only increased my interest  level since Whiskey Island was the settling place for so many immigrant  Catholic Irish. I can say, however, that Richards faithfully recreates all  of this and hits no wrong notes. The novel proceeds at two levels: one part  of it is set in present day Cleveland on Whiskey Island, close to downtown,  and the other is set in the same place but in 1880.  Both stories also  involve a priest and a woman. Frankly, I do think more novels of any genre  would benefit from using locales not already overused and this was  certainly one of them.  It gives a touch of originality to any tale when  the reader can go to new places and meet new people from previously  uncovered backgrounds. Having priests or former priests as major characters  certainly puts this author in unique territory.  This is my first book by  this author and I will  try another of hers.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-07-05
US	50605810	R1E4BK4K1KYZ2	0380796104	122477335	Lucy Sullivan Is Getting Married	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Why Lucy Keeps Picking Mr. Wrong	Yes, Lucy does figure it out. She has a great guy as a bestfriend and a louse as her boyfriend as a young woman living andworking in London. He is only one louse in a series of many lice in her life. Why?  Well, you can go home again; unfortunately for Lucy. Much as we all suspected, you don't have to look much further than your own front growing-up yard to discover most of life's answers. I discovered Irish writer Marian Keyes with this book and kept right on reading her. My next foray was her \\"Watermelon\\" and the one after that was about staying at a Holiday type place but it wasn't really. It was a drug rehab facility! I had one more Keyes' novel to find, Last Chance Saloon, and the only place I could find it was Ireland. That's the only one I've got left to read and yes, I bought it from a store in Ireland and had it shipped to Ohio!  That pretty much says what I think about this author ...<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-07-03
US	50605810	R14V3GKDNFVKHW	1892041162	181896975	Pictures: Robert Mapplethorpe	Books	5	48	49	N	N	Art Or Trash? The Book Which Will Decide Your Vote!	Probably the most reviled book at Amazon because of its sexual explictness of the \\"out there\\" gay life led before AIDS, complete with bondage, S&M and even torture. Yet Mapplethorpe was artist enough to  make many of the images compelling and haunting plus horrific yet eye/heart  stopping. There are even self portraits of Mapplethorpe at the height of  his own physical beauty before he too would be ravaged and killed by AIDS.  I come down solidly on the side of the \\"This is art\\" contenders  but caution you that this book is not for the rigid, the squeamish or  minors. Mapplethorpe captured an extreme moment in time, when controversial  sexual behavior came out to the public and shoved itself in the public's  face, clamoring to be viewed and defying us to look away. I, for one, could  not look away.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-07-02
US	50605810	RD5BL246OAL00	044652154X	933426195	Mortal Sins	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Penn Williamson is NOT a MAN!	This is the new name for former romance writer Penelope Williamson who has joined the ranks of writers looking for legitimacy and validation by moving their romance novels into the mystery genre.  None of them get rid of the  romance; they just toss a mystery into the hopper to get the novel over  onto the mystery aisle of your local bookstore. Williamson succeeds better  than virtually all other romance writers, excepting J.D. Robb, who are  attempting this genre switch, however, to date.  The only mistake she made  was in having too many characters.  Specifically, the hero's whole Irish  contingent of friends from childhood, especially Maguire who has become a  bootlegger and cohort of Al Capone's, need to be dropped or minimized.<br /><br />I  think Williamson thought she could lead us off the trail of the real  murderer by exploring this Irish contingent but, instead, it just  interfered with the otherwise perfect, direct, narrative thrust of her  novel, involving everyone who intersects with the bloodlines of the Rourkes  and the LeLourlies of New Orleans.  The hero's mother is a Rourke and the  heroine's father was a LeLourlie and that couple lived in sin together for  16 years after leaving their families, including their children, behind  them. Williamson would have earned a perfect 5 from me if she had just  stuck with these two bloodlines. I thought the cover was primarily  atmospheric of the 1927 New Orleans setting but, by the time I closed the  book, I realized the cover depiction of the New Orleans cemetery was at the  very essence of the underlying mystery.  If you want to read perfect  Williamson, try her \\"The Passions Of Emma\\" which was her novel  before this one.  I am willing to try her second mixed-genre blend novel,  shelved on the more \\"respectable\\" mystery aisle, based on the  strong points of this first novel to be found there.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-06-26
US	50605810	R3TVBFPEJJT4M0	0385334370	703888182	Handyman	Books	4	1	2	N	N	I Had A Good Time With This Book!	The romance idea was clever with having the carpenter-contractor pose as the heroine's psychologist and become her stand-in therapist without her knowing it. The heroine needs someone to give her a hand up from the bottom  more than she needs a shrink.  Enter the Handyman.  His idea of coping with  living in a high crime neighborhood is to install deadbolt locks and start  a neighborhood watch not to regress her to past lives.  The hero and  heroine are pretty much regular people. And that's what makes the rest of  the novel pretty funny.  Many of the other characters are trendy West Coast  types with their own agendas which they follow come hell or high water.  The hero's former girlfriend is \\"on\\" every whacked out idea  currently being tried out there and is obsessed with her looks and  preserving them.<br /><br />The heroine's friend is a real estate saleswoman who when  the latest trend doesn't work out, hires a private detective to get even.  The real psychologist is a big deal on the West Coast because he has  written best sellers with techniques like past life regressions.  He has a  heart attack on the East Coast while his trophy wife watches Jerry  Springer, shops and ignores him.  The carpenter-contractor is turning the  psychologist's office into a spa complete with hot tub because the  psychologist hates counseling individuals and wants to try counselling  groups in the hot tub next.  It seems many readers want this author to go  for full out comedy for her next novel but I don't know if I could handle  every character in the book being a whacked out West Coast type.  I tend to  doubt it.  This book is a good evening's entertainment and I enjoyed it as  it was.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.s. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-06-22
US	50605810	R38WADFQNVWYPW	080411952X	480474378	The Unsung Hero (Troubleshooters, Book 1)	Books	3	8	13	N	N	This Could Have Been Great....	This was a very relationship strong novel but the problem is that the relationship that is the weakest is between the lead characters!  Much stronger are the relationships depicted between the two older men, one of  whom is dying, and the duo in their late teens, a comic book artist and his  model. The two older men flash back repeatedly to their love for a French  resistance fighter during WWII, which is a poignant story.  The lead  characters present my least two favorite plot points: they've had a crush  on one another since high school, 16 years ago, and mentally lust after one  another for, it seems, half of the book. This is also the weakest of her  Navy SEALS depictions because it is just too incredible a coincidence that  an international terrorist surfaces to sabotage a WWII ceremony in the same  New England town where the hero SEAL is recuperating on convalescent leave.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-06-17
US	50605810	RENRHIJDKFHLS	0380810484	244602149	How to Trap a Tycoon	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Cute, Fun Screwball Comedy Set In Present Day	I've read this author's prior two novels, which are also screwball comedies like those seen in the 1930s.  This third book is her most succssful in terms of updating the screwball comedy to 2000. In the other  two I still felt a bit caught in a time warp. She also sets this novel in  Chicago which works nicely. Basically, a woman finishing up her PhD in  sociology writes a bestselling tongue-in-cheek guide for trapping a rich  guy and, of course, \\"traps\\" the very guy without even trying  while she works undercover at a rich man's Men's Only Private Club/Bar.  She's using this job to get data for her dissertation on power between men  and women. It's a fun story, an enjoyable entertainment and of absolutely  no \\"higher\\" value whatsoever.  This is also her 3rd cartoon cover  and it is probably her cutest.  A cartoon cover actually suits her novels  quite well whereas some novels which use them are not as lighthearted as  the cartoon cover would imply to the reader.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-06-12
US	50605810	R36XT5C6XS42MQ	0553578022	985544083	The Face of Deception (Eve Duncan)	Books	3	11	18	N	N	Liked Author Better As Romance Novelist!	For some reason, Johansen decided to write suspense-thriller books instead of romance books, her prior career.  Apparently, she has been very successful commercially in this new guise.  I find her a disappointment.  Everything she once knew about relationships is gone.  Now she just draws  the broad strokes of a billionaire hero (what else?) and a heroine who is a  forensic sculptor who is chronically grieving over her murdered daughter.  The daughter is mentioned in virtually every paragraph of the book and  after awhile you could just scream when she's mentioned yet again. The  woman's career in this novel is the best part about it and the only reason  I finished it.  I loved seeing her reconstruct identities in sculpting full  faces, using only a skull (see cover image)as her model.  If Johansen had  made the heroine a police detective though, I would have had to give this  one star.      As a story about serial killers, governmental deceit, and  mystery, this was a real yawn.  Read Thomas Harris or Anne Rule or David  Baldacci or Joe McGinnis (or even the Starr Report) if that is the kind of  novel or true crime book you are needing. I am rarely totally misled by the  front cover image of a book.  This one depicted her career accurately but  not the whole thrust of the novel. The cover is of one of the heroine's  forensic sculptures. You will read about her doing a few of them and it  will make you want MORE of those instead of what is here. This was my 2nd  chance for Johansen in this suspense/thriller genre, after reading her UGLY  DUCKLING, her 1st chance with me in this other genre. That one I couldn't  even finish and it met an untimely end with my outside dumpster.  Read this  author's backlist of romance novels, if you want to read her when she was  pretty good.    Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-06-11
US	50605810	R2GFWSKE3ETPX3	0671023675	604659687	The Charade (Sonnet Books)	Books	3	11	14	N	N	Another Romance Author Goes Formulaic....	Guhrke's work is getting steadily less original and decidedly more within the standard romance formula.  As I got further and further into this novel, my interest kept waning because I felt I could exactly chart the  course of events in the story: Hero spy and heroine counter spy, during  American Revolution, work at cross purposes and then same purposes while  they fall in love. Guhrke's earlier work, especially CONOR'S WAY, and  secondly, BREATHLESS, were a lot more original.  Unfortunately, many  romance readers buy the formula romance again and again without any boredom  factor setting in to ruin it for them.  I wish I were one of them but,  alas, the formula is really grating upon me at this point. Guhrke's a good  writer but needs a better mouse trap IMHO.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-06-10
US	50605810	RYJ52RP3JIFPF	0061009059	830758196	One for the Money (Stephanie Plum, No. 1) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	4	34	44	N	N	You Must Start Here With Book #1 of the Six Books!	My sister kept bugging me about reading these Stephanie Plum books.  I kept putting it off because I don't like these continuing private eyes, or their clones, which the mystery genre loves so much.  Spenser I gave up on  years ago, along with its writer, Robert B. Parker, for example! However,  my sister kept talking about the humor, especially with the grandmother at  the funeral parlor, and a whole assortment of other eccentrics in middle  class New Jersey.  Then she said the romance was pretty good too and  different readers were on different sides of whether Stephanie should pick  Joe or Ranger.  \\"And how difficult is each mystery to solve,\\" I  asked.  \\"Oh, that,\\" she said, trying to remember what the  mysteries were in the books.  That pretty much sums up the series. I also  like the pet rodent, Rex, although I prefer having a dog.  Read them in  order, starting here, or you'll have trouble making sense of things since  it follows a chronoligical time frame in #s 1-6.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-06-02
US	50605810	R3HCKJETQKZZZR	0671025368	758176148	The Coldest Winter Ever	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Inside Her Head, Don't Like Her But Too Fascinated To Leave!	What a incredible journey to be inside this young African American woman's head as she leads her life as her drug dealing, spare-no-expense, father's daughter in and around New York City.  She is brought up in the crassest,  materialistic style imaginable and doesn't recognize that something is very  wrong with her father supporting his family this way.  Then the ceiling  falls in on her as her father is arrested and the money comes to a  screeching halt.  She is romantically interested in a man who works for her  father but they are in direct contrast with one another.  The man can only  focus on getting out of this drug-fed job and lifestyle whereas all she  wants is back into it for the money and its material comforts.<br /><br />The author herself becomes a character in the last third of the book, as a healing  figure in the African American community, which is her real-life role. She  is the young woman's last chance to turn her life around from the fast  money lane. You will never like this young woman but you will come to  understand what made her become the way she is.  This is fascinating  material and I'm sure glad I wasn't raised in the environment which is  depicted.  I loved the hot colors and the face on the cover and that's what  drew me to it initially.  I had never heard of the book or its author  before. The cover and the contents are equally intense!<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-05-31
US	50605810	RDS3ZVEM5BF3D	0451186842	90674218	The Lady's Companion	Books	5	48	51	N	N	I Didn't Listen To My Friends & Now I'm Scrambling!	My friends told me Carla Kelly was a terrific writer.  I didn't listen.  For a long time I just ignored all regencies because their covers are so hideous. Finally, a few Carla Kelly books came my way and I was astonished  to discover a present day writer who is the next best thing to getting a  reincarnation of Jane Austen herself! So I've hunted down some of her books  but have a long way to go before I have them all.  I should have listened  because these books are much harder to find nowadays. \\"The Lady's  Companion\\" is at the top of my list of Kelly's books.  It is because  she effectively deals with the British system of class.  The British tend  to drive me crazy over their class distinctions so Kelly had her ideal  reader with me on this novel.<br /><br />A writer who can at one and the same time find humor in the class situation yet also write a love story around  it--well, no one but Kelly has done it so well since Austen herself, IMHO!  In this novel, the \\"lady\\" in question, is reduced by her father's  gambling to become a lady's companion of an elderly, difficult woman.  She  also starts thinking about marrying the bailiff of the estate where she  works. This is a really radical notion because the two are not of the same  class!  You would think an interracial marriage was being broached with the  reactions this couple encounter.  Don't miss this book.  In 2nd place with  me is \\"Reforming Lord Ragsdale\\" by Kelly.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-05-30
US	50605810	R131NBKPLW6HWQ	0316578398	87101258	The Art of Raising a Puppy	Books	5	8	10	N	N	We Ended Up Adopting A Different Dog!	We showed up to pick out our mutt puppy and were prepared to take the female.  However, we had this book in hand and the monks had a bunch of  personality tests to administer to a prospective puppy.  We performed the  tests on the female and her brother. Her brother upstaged her at every turn  so we adopted him.  He has turned out to be a fabulous dog,incredibly smart  and affectionate.  The book also has training methods, some of which we  used effectively.  The \\"sterner\\" methods used by the Monks we  were just too wimpy to use on our dog.  The monks are all in favor of the  training cage though. We had never used a dog cage before but now think it  is wonderful for training a pup.  The monks' toilet training for pups was  less effective than a method we learned in another OOP book.  We stuck with  the other book's method of using vinegar and tabasco sauce on the dog.  Notice the monks  breed German Shepherd dogs.  We just applied their  material to a mutt and it worked fine.  We were going to get another  purebred dog but our vet advised us we would do better with a mutt  medically and he was right. He was seeing too many medical problems with  all types of purebred dogs.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-05-29
US	50605810	R3TKN74RO3MWDK	1563895617	250656893	Veils	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Woman's Graphic Novel aka "Comic Book"	Graphic novel is the name given now to beautiful full length \\"comics\\" which come in hardback or trade paperback size.  What's truly unusual about this one is that it is not male-oriented.  This one was  meant for a female audience!  The only other graphic novel I've read that  does the same is Gaiman and McKean's \\"Black Orchid\\".  \\"Veils\\" totally succeeds as both a story and an art work and you  can't ask any more of a \\"comic book\\" than that.  The art work is  done by 2 different artists since 2 different media are used: actual hand  drawings/paintings and computer-enhanced photography.  Using both together  was a brilliant idea.  This story of a Victorian English woman, fleeing her  abusive English husband into a Middle Eastern harem, is quite tantalizing.  None of the names are familiar to me of the people who collaborated on this  book but I certainly hope they all plan to work together again and soon!<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-05-28
US	50605810	R1TD8QJ6ZVSDFO	0062507249	318933945	Becoming a Man: Half a Life Story	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Gone But Not Forgotten	Why would a straight woman want to read the memoirs of a gay man, the late Paul Monette who died of AIDS in the '90s?  Because all you have to be is human to appreciate the passion and conviction this man brought to his life  as he neared the end of it.  Monette grew up in the Ivy League albeit  deeply closeted.  When he finally \\"came out\\", it was to discover  the love of his life, Roger Horowitz.  They spent happy years together  until Roger first got AIDS and then Paul got it.  Paul took care of Roger  while he died from AIDS.<br /><br />His love for Roger is recounted in BORROWED TIME,  AN AIDS MEMOIR, also by Monette, which I view as the prequel to this book.  With this book, Monette went back to the time before Roger and his coming  to terms with the fact that he was a gay man.  He spent most of his youth  in total denial. Monette was a good writer before he and his longtime  companion contracted AIDS but AIDS transformed him and his work to much  higher levels of art.  This book deservedly won the National Book Award and  many people felt, including me, that BORROWED TIME should have won it as  well some years earlier.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-05-28
US	50605810	REP01CHSTA46K	0930289552	93409299	Black Orchid	Books	5	8	15	N	N	Black Orchid, A Woman Done By Top Two Men in Graphic Novels!	I bought this before \\"Veils\\", also reviewed by me, and was very happy since this work, unlike most \\"comics\\" work, was more  clearly aimed at women.  I already owned much of Gaiman and McKean's work  and was surprised to discover this feminist and environment oriented book  among their earlier work.  Also, buying it in the trade paperback version  meant I wouldn't be missing any issues of the story, the typical problem  when you are trying to find these as individual comics. McKean is my all-time  favorite artist in \\"comics\\".  He can do no wrong and I was  delighted to find him doing a non-macho storyline.  I wish Gaiman and  McKean would go back to this type of work rather than what they are doing  now in the \\"comics\\" field.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-05-28
US	50605810	RO14ZW40ZGGDQ	0671036572	161562725	The Art of Sleepy Hollow	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Tim Burton Paints Gorgeous Movies!	This book is a companion volume to Burton's movie on LEGEND OF SLEEPY HOLLOW. He took a number of deviations from the original story but the biggest was a visual one: to replace gawky, almost-ugly Ichabod Crane with  gorgeous Johnny Depp.  You cannot picture Johnny Depp in the original  Washington Irvin tale.  You can picture Christina Ricci, the heroine,  falling for Johnny Depp, as she does, but not the original Ichabod.  However, Burton is a terrific artist and what art is in this book is  smashing and Depp and Ricci are gorgeous people to put in an art book.  I  could frankly use a lot more art and a lot less screenplay (also in the  book) since I'm not sure that I like all the liberties Burton took with the  original tale in his screenplay.  The film, however, looked gorgeous and  Burton and his team picked up an Oscar for the visuals, as usual, two  months ago.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-05-28
US	50605810	R2M3TQMRPQODH1	0896596648	830287135	Art to Wear	Books	5	21	22	N	N	The Bible Of The Wearable Art Movement!	I have the edition of this book which came out in the mid'80s and which was embraced by all of us doing wearable art as the ultimate art we are all aspiring to achieve.  The author then had the most famous wearable art gallery too in New York City.  The pictures are out-of-this world in the  earlier edition and I can't believe they'd be anything but splendid in this  later edition. I can't even count how many hours I've spent going over the  pictures again and again in the book.  I can't understand why Amazon  doesn't have a front cover to show you on this book though.  Mine has a  knock-you-out front cover with an absolutely gorgeous cover model in  wearable art.  If you've always wanted to understand what wearable art is,  this book answered all the questions I had about the movement and the  pioneers who started it.  I spent (more money) on my book back then so this one is  a real deal if you get the same number of pictures.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-05-28
US	50605810	R3ETAP7T7U47OC	0380731983	304772349	When I Fall in Love	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Better Than "Beaches", Dart's Most Well Known Book!	Author Dart has labored in the trenches of writing television comedy herself so what better protagonists to bring to a story than two comedy writers for a television show?  The heroine is already engaged to a  handsome heart surgeon when she meets Charlie, known as The King Of Jokes,  who is her new writing boss.  Any novel that features a heroine who picks a  comedy writer hero, who also has a disability, after dumping the heart  surgeon, is/was a must read for me! The best love story of 1999.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-05-28
US	50605810	R6S5COJ0JCMUL	0441004326	776626933	Archangel (Samaria, Book 1)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Never Would Have Picked This Out On My Own!	Normally I would go to the ends of the earth to avoid a novel which combines, angels, biblical lore, science fiction and romance.  It sounds like a recipe for disaster. After numerous friends online kept insisting  that I would love this book though, I decided to read it to prove them  wrong.  Primed to come up with scathing rejoinders regarding this  \\"eccch\\" of an idea, I naturally fell in love with the novel  instead and couldn't put it down.  Shinn has an astonishing imagination  that cannot be denied! You can see the male archangel on the horizon line,  striding towards the heroine, on the front cover if you click on the cover  image and enlarge it.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-05-28
US	50605810	R39P3LA740G6UA	0380790947	986179021	The Passion	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Go Straight To The Best Werewolf Tale--This One!	I thought that I wouldn't be able to stand reading yet another werewolf book.  I've read so many, and seen so many werewolf films, that I'm surprised I don't turn into one during the full moon myself!  A friend,  Sandi M, insisted though that this was the best werewolf tale of them all  so I gave it a try. Boy, was she right!  Shifting from present time to the  past and back again, Boyd delivers an entire world of werewolves who live  amongst humans yet surpass them on every level.  The \\"hook\\" she  uses is incredibly inventive: what happens to humans if they have sex with  a werewolf.  And, naturally, in Boyd's werewolf world, one does.  I dove  directly from this book into its sequel, THE PROMISE, which was every bit  as terrific! Btw, that's a nude in flames on the inner front cover of the  book, which you just catch a glimpse of on the front cover cut-out. It is  one of the better hidden front covers.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-05-28
US	50605810	RRR5NAMUW2UQ2	1564965821	383056656	Best of Colored Pencil 5 (No.5)	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Juried Colored Pencil Art Works	This is the annual exhibition for colored pencil work and the good news is that the range of styles is getting wider.  This medium has tended to attract only those artists with a photo-realistic style in the past.  Now,  more artists with styles not quite so realistic are becoming attracted to  this medium as well.  One still doesn't see the versatility that one sees  in work from other media but that may well be coming.  I bought this book  and am enjoying studying the work within it.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-05-28
US	50605810	R1VOCA1OJT5ZZ1	0836279425	912333413	Two Weeks In Midday Sun : A Cannes Notebook	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Now I Don't Need To Go To The Cannes Film Fest!	Since Roger Ebert covered this festival so well in 1987, I feel as if I've already been there without having to experience any of the annoyances of trying to do it in person. He does a bit of everything while there, from  covering the obvious stars and star-studded events to seeking out the  unknown, eccentric, artistic characters, plus fast buck artists, who also  attend. He even admits he has to view the movies again back in the USA  because the conditions of seeing them at Cannes tend to be adverse. Ebert,  known primarily for his television review show, is even a better writer  than he is a speaker.  You will treasure and keep this book.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-05-28
US	50605810	R3CRWZ9C3WVEC9	0312203039	442694342	High Five (Stephanie Plum, No. 5) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Whole Series Is Hoot Load Of Fun!	You have to read this book and the four which came before it before you can read \\"Hot Six\\", coming out in June 2000. I recommend you get all 6 books at once and read them in order, one after another.  That's how  I did it and it worked great.  My enthusiasm for the characters and their  hilarious dilemmas grew book by book.  With tongue in cheek, you take on a  female bounty hunter on the prowl in her old working class neighborhood of  Trenton, New Jersey, with all of its odd and eccentric citizens, including  her totally fruitcake family.  Two potential boyfriends sweeten the scene.  One is a cop and the other is a male bounty hunter who remains questionably  on the side of law and order.  The bad guys are real originals as well but  I don't think many women read the Stephanie Plum series to actually solve mystery novel scenarios.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-05-27
US	50605810	R1OM8D09FYZWZO	0061097101	632958433	The Saving Graces: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Emotional Bonds And Strength Among Women	This first mainstream novel by Gaffney concerns four women in suburban Washington, D.C. who are always there for one another emotionally.  Although each woman has a man and man problems in her life, along with  career and child concerns, the dominant force in their lives is the power  of the four of them bound together.  They are known as The Saving Graces  because they saved a stray dog together on the highway, which they adopted  and named Grace.  Their mission as a unit is rescuing each other just as  they've rescued Grace. If you have had woman friends all of your life, you  will identify instantly with the truth of this book. If you haven't had  woman friends, you'll realize what you've been missing.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-05-27
US	50605810	RCNB4FFKVPAGZ	0553578022	985544083	The Face of Deception (Eve Duncan)	Books	2	3	4	N	N	A Terrific Premise Is Not Enough!	I thought the idea of a female forensic sculptor who could identify decedents by sculpting their faces back onto their bare bones skulls was terrific.  That she got into this line of work due to her own daughter's  supposed death and unrecovered body due to a serial killer only added to  the idea.  However, once into the book, I found myself into a rather  standard chase thriller with the good guys trying to remain ahead of the  bad guys, all of the characters  being such a cliche as to never raise my  interest level.  This author was much better when she was writing about  relationships and emotions way back when in the romance genre instead of  the thriller genre.  The cover really really fooled me on this one.  It is  a knockout job of a sculpted head in strips by Alan Ayers/Bantam and it  totally pulled me into the forensic premise of this novel.  Too bad the  novel didn't deliver on its cover promise!<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-05-27
US	50605810	R32GCKLGX67SX0	0553268880	380807670	The Prince of Tides: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Beautiful Writing Still Lives!	At times I've wondered if truly beautiful writing has disappeared from modern fiction and, if so, whether it will need to be reborn for us.  As long as author Pat Conroy is around, however, we need not be concerned.  This is a wonderful, lyrical, poetic novel that alternates between the  protagonist's present day conflicts and his childhood in the Carolina low  country.  It's hard for me to think of a novel I like any better from any  age.  I wish I could say the same about the movie. Despite a noble effort  by Nick Nolte in the lead role, Barbra Streisand sinks the film version, as  director and female lead. I wish I had never even watched it so as not to  intrude on this otherwise perfect gem of a book.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-05-26
US	50605810	RZPVSNX5Q5WWD	0804118558	621196503	A Breach of Promise (William Monk Novels)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Suing Him When He Backs Out Of Marrying You	I read this mystery set in Victorian England to ascertain how one of these breach of promise cases worked back then.  They were abolished in my state several decades ago as being too behind the times with the gains women had  made in the market place.  In this mystery, a young lady and her family sue  the architect who had been building a house for her father for not going  forward and marrying her.  It's a fascinating case to watch unfold and to  see the mystery behind it develop.  However, I don't know any of these  continuing characters the author uses in her mysteries so that aspect was  less successful with me.  Also, there's an incredible coincidence that  develops at the end of solving this case that the odds were just too long  against. An enjoyable read but I'm not rushing out to buy more from this series.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-05-26
US	50605810	R3G5XDA1UPJTQ3	0871923157	604048610	Exploring Colored Pencil	Books	4	21	30	N	N	Going In The Right Direction	Yet another book in colored pencil technique for anyone interested in drawing but its chief attribute is the variety of art styles shown by all the different artists' work.  There is still a tendency for only photo  realists to work in colored pencil and it is increasingly important that  those of us who use this medium see work which pushes the envelope against  photo realism rendered in it.  A nice companion volume for \\"Drawing On  The Right Side Of the Brain\\" after you are finished with that book.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-05-26
US	50605810	R310NVMXZB4YG1	0552132829	60130397	Painting the Darkness	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Read Nonstop On A Long Road Trip	I couldn't put this book down, dying to know the truth about whether this man was the one who supposedly killed himself years earlier or an imposter.  What really made this book was that the chapters alternated between a  first person point-of-view and a third person point-of-view.  I previously  thought it was impossible to pull off shifting point-of-views in a novel  but this one proved to be the total exception.  It was an experiment that  was an unqualified success. All writers should also read this book to  explore the outter reaches of creative possibilites open to them.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-05-26
US	50605810	R1LME3IC4DRXOI	0874776945	173898034	The Artist's Way: A Spiritual Path to Higher Creativity	Books	3	26	29	N	N	Doesn't Work For Me	Although this is a well written book that has helped many people who are blocked creatively, I couldn't get past a pivotal hurdle. This is that each day you have to write extensive journal pages called \\"Morning  Pages.\\"  I tried getting on listservs to get myself motivated to make  it through but I discovered that other people had the same problem I did  doing those pages.  However, these materials were really intended for those  experiencing total creative block which I was not experiencing at the time  I tried it.  A friend, who was experiencing creative block, found this book  much more useful than I did. If you are actually experiencing a creative  block in any creative activity, you may want to try this book and/or take  the accompanying course work which goes with it. This book also can be used  for writers with creative block, which the title does not make clear.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-05-26
US	50605810	R2TZ9L9VZW96KZ	0812571088	763383583	Frameshift	Books	4	2	2	N	N	What do you do when your field is killing you?	Sawyer again used a professional couple, but at a California university, and explored fascinating aspects of genetics. Central to the story, but a gut wrenching part of it, is the hero's dealing with the likelihood that he  suffers from an incurable genetic illness while he's a practicing  geneticist.  This brings out the utmost good in his character but his boss  is the geneticist from hell.  Very gripping story that once again shows  this writer has a terrific imagination.  I am not highly knowledgable in  science myself but I can follow the vast majority of the science he  presents, which is a big plus in any sci-fi writer I choose to read.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-05-26
US	50605810	RE1375DRXMPJY	0874774241	314200259	The New Drawing on the Right Side of the Brain	Books	5	69	75	N	N	Can Make An Artist Out Of Anyone!	I made abstract art for two decades but it took this book, and a matching course I took at my local Ursuline College, to convince me that I could also learn realism.  Today, I continue to improve in drawing recognizable  people, a feat which used to be totally beyond me.  This book shows you  ways of tricking your brain into shifting sides so that you can  \\"see\\" people and objects in the three dimensional world the way  only a few \\"artistic\\" people otherwise seemed capable of seeing  and then depicting.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-05-26
US	50605810	R3BBCWLX2URXQL	0446359866	806938577	Presumed Innocent: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Best Legal Mystery Ever Written	Written in the first person, which totally works in this novel, Scott Turow puts a prosecutor on trial for murder. Turow, a former prosecutor himself and then a firm lawyer in Chicago, wrote this on his way to work as a lawyer each morning on the train. He captures everything you could ever want in a legal mystery-thriller and then some. This is an absolute classic novel, which the movie version doesn't come close to equalling. I've read John Grisham's books and nothing of his comes close to this novel's achievement.<br /><br />Rusty Sabitch is the prosecutor and he had an affair with another prosecutor, Carolyn. Rusty is married and has a son. When the police investigate, they find Rusty's DNA in and on Carolyn's body. He is swiftly arrested and most of the book is taken up by his trial. His lawyer, Sandy Stern, is a great character and Turow would write his next book about Stern. Rusty's friend is a cop and the judge hearing the trial is pro defense. The prosecutor has always hated Rusty. His wife, of course, must be informed, and then stand by him during the trial. Each of these characters is just terrific. This book has everything, including the best ending imaginable. Just a great, great book. Nothing else even comes close.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-05-26
US	50605810	R2X90FKLMOY4BJ	006108462X	58638801	Cool Shade	Books	5	30	31	N	N	Award Winner and At Top Of My List	This book won the RITA award and deservedly so yet the publisher is out of stock on it.  This is really a shame because this is one of the best romances I've ever read.  I think it also could have been published as  fiction but it's on the line genre-wise.  It also combines suspense but  without murdering anyone!  It's a total original.  This author will next be  appearing on the Mystery section here, instead of romance, so keep her in  view and track down her books, both past and forthcoming!  Anne M. Marble,  one of my FAVORITES here at Amazon, also reviews this book, so take the  link at the top left of this page, to her site.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-05-25
US	50605810	R14KF2SG3QR65R	1885223196	517351611	Men Before Ten A.M.	Books	5	2	8	N	N	Sexy When Messy	These are wonderful pictures taken by a French female photographer of famous men before 10 am in the morning.  These are not just actors but men famous for other reasons as well.  She doesn't date the pictures and I  believe some of them are from quite a few years back but that is not a  detraction.  Some of the men are wide awake and already working but many  are not.  They are all informal, to say the least! I don't like the  companion book, Women Before Ten A.M., nearly as well but a man might  prefer that one.  The binding on this large paperback hasn't held up well  but, even knowing that, I would still get it for the contents.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-05-25
US	50605810	RSBDJV5CMHKF1	031225234X	312924571	Name Dropping	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Good Evening's Entertainment	I don't look to Jane Heller for a great reading experience but I do look to her for a night's light, comic entertainment and she always delivers. This newest novel is no exception.  I can blast right through one of her  books because they are easy and fun.  This has a nice fantasy aspect too  where the heroine tries on someone else's more glamorous life to meet her man.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-05-25
US	50605810	R1ICN0BJYLWPBW	0061030120	569759464	In the Midnight Rain	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Love Blues' music and book captures its essence!	As a longtime listener of blues' music, I snatched this book right off of the bookshelf.  Upon reading it, I was gratified to discover a well developed story that has two blues' music lovers connect as lovers  themselves when the woman comes to town to write a book about a blues'  musician. Wind has many plot threads and characters to connect, not just  the lovers, and she does so very well.  I hope Wind picks up a much larger  audience with this fiction debut than she's had writing category romances.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-05-23
US	50605810	R3EJOI10Y5UGCB	0446525367	828168267	Crazy for Cornelia	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Doorman artist takes on debutante and it works!	As soon as I read that the doorman was an artist who made neon saints, I knew I had to read this book.  He's just a wonderful hero.  This book is a romance although it is listed in literature and fiction.  It's a terrific  one and there isn't the slightest touch of the formulaic here that plagues  some romance novels.  A man wrote it and he did a heck of a job.  This is  also a very funny book in spots and you will LOL but it is more than  balanced by some serious moments as well.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-05-22
US	50605810	R1929FMN6VKFNQ	0812571290	374457460	Factoring Humanity	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Meeting The Collective Unconscious of Them and Us!	What an imagination Sawyer has!  He grabbed me on the first chapter of this book and never let go.  His solution for two married professors at the University of Toronto who are facing a terrible accusation from their  surviving daughter, is the most unique I've ever read in a novel.  Better  than a psychiatrist, better than the legal system--it's, well, it is  out-of-this-world!  This book has continued to linger a very long time in  my memory which is always a good sign.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-05-22
US	50605810	RAZD8RAV3TV3I	0446673757	762557319	Mail	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Good But Doesn't Stay With You	This was an enjoyable novel that was entertaining.  However, when you're done with it, you find it was a pleasant diversion and not much else.  There is nothing gripping about the story or the characters.  It is  essentially one woman dating two different men, one of whom is her mailman.  That she's a Harvard grad, that the 2nd man is a Harvard Law grad, that  her ex-husband was her Harvard professor and that her mother is mad about  Harvard men and that the mother ends up marrying one (again) herself, is a  large part of this book.  You might up this in grade if you actually went  to Harvard.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-05-22
US	50605810	R3NGUCQIK64M6I	0380807157	26838172	It Must Be Love	Books	2	6	8	N	N	Doesn't come close to her prior two books!	I loved this author's prior two novels.  However, this one just slightly engaged my interest.  It never came together for me as a romance either plus I didn't particularly like the characters.  Although this is my most  recent \\"read\\" of hers, I already remember it in far less detail  than her prior two novels!  That is not a good sign.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-05-22
US	50605810	R332IJ2BOVPX96	0061030201	844953416	Disguised Blessing	Books	4	1	1	N	N	This writer is always solid	This was a typical book for this author, which is a pretty good thing. Her stories aren't especially gripping but she always delivers a nice love story, this time about a male firefighter and a divorcee who previously has  only married/dated wealthy men.  There is also a very good teenage daughter  in this book who also needs the firefighter's help and affection and a  great dog.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-05-22
US	50605810	R10S5HESEN9HNQ	042517428X	983788058	The Burning Point	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Not Perfect but definitely worth a try!	Ok, so it is 4 out of 5 instead of Putney's  usual perfect 5.  It is also her first contemporary after a long career in historicals, however.  Putney also pushes everyone's hot buttons with this one.  Not only is it set in  the demolition business but it involves a couple who split up because he  had a worsening alcohol problem which wrecked havoc with his poor impulse  control (at college age) and led to low scale domestic violence. I believe  the farthest it got was one slap and she cleared out.<br /><br />10 years later, they  meet again at her father's funeral and he's been a recovering alcoholic for  10 years and has gotten control over his impulses and temper. Domestic  violence comes in gradations and this guy is almost too good to be true in  the way he goes about addressing his problems through counseling and rehab.  Is it possible?  Yes. Is it probable? No.  Most men go far further down the  scale before getting treatment, if they ever get treatment.  However, no  one would have read this book had the author gone for total realism and  this book could never have been classed a romance in that event.  I liked  it a lot.  Glad I bought it and read it; never bored me for a moment.  Her  next contemporary will be even better. Loved the cover; one of the very  best contemporary romance covers of 2000.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-05-22
US	50605810	R2GCVFRP587EXU	0380807122	958834548	Baby, Don't Go	Books	3	9	12	N	N	This author isn't "doing it" for me anymore!	This was my 3rd book in her BABY series to read and I've probably had enough of her.  Two formulae used in romance are bugging me more and more and this author uses both of them. (1) Woman falling in love with man from  her youth upon whom she had crush back then. (2) Tons of mental lusting  that the characters go through, especially the male.  You fervidly start  hoping that they \\"get it on\\" ASAP so you don't have to keep  reading the mental lusting ad nauseum. Although it was probably only a 2  star book for me, I'm giving it a 3 because I think those factors bother me  a lot more than they will most romance readers.<br /><br />Visit my blog with link given on my profile page here or use this phonetically given URL (livingasseniors dot blogspot dot com). Friday's entry will always be weekend entertainment recs from my 5 star Amazon reviews in film, tv, books and music. These are very heavy on buried treasures and hidden gems. My blogspot is published on Monday, Wednesday & Friday.	2000-05-22
