US	50609084	RQVT7OMC90RQG	1594200173	23256306	Gag Rule: On the Suppression of Dissent and Stifling of Democracy	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Classic Lapham	For several years now, ever since discovering Harper's and its monthly essay by editor Lapham, I've looked forward to the magazine's monthly arrival and those always pungent editorials on the state of our times.  Consequently, I had high expectations for this book and can say I wasn't let down in the least.<br />The book, while not huge, is Lapham at his best virtually cover to cover.  He's absolutely unrelenting as he ranges across the contemporary cultural and political landscape, drawing amazing connections on just about every page.<br />The book is divided into four longish chapters, but these are little more than mere formalities, as the tone is seamless from one section to the next.  I've read several of the critiques flooding the market in this election year -- &quot;President of Good and Evil&quot; and &quot;Worse Than Watergate&quot; come immediately to mind -- but this book is the best I've hit so far, not only because it's Lapham doing the writing but because his critique is not just of the current Bush administration, but, rather it's a sweeping cultural critique of America today.<br />While I couldn't recommend the book to the Time magazine or USA Today crowd, I can't imagine others not being challenged and moved by its ideas and its implicit vision of a better America.	2004-07-12
US	50609084	R3A9B9TXPIWS87	1568983050	597006904	Survival City: Adventures Among the Ruins of Atomic America	Books	5	30	30	N	Y	Heady stuff, very smartly written	I'm usually a rather tough grader, but this is the best book I've read in quite some time.  Vanderbilt takes us on a lively and diverse tour of cold war America's remaining architectural artifacts (the interstate highway system, bomb shelters, missile silos, misc. military installations - some still in use, nuclear waste sites, etc.) and weaves an analysis of same into an interesting and often surprising commentary on the historical period and the society which gave rise to these structures.  For me, the novel perspective of looking at things from an architectural standpoint worked quite well at making the history and those times come alive.<br />The style is part documentary, part story-telling, part travelogue, part cultural anthropology, and part essay on topics in architecture (generally) which I previously would not have thought about, or thought I had any reason to think about.  The approach was successful enough that I found myself frequently being simply and skillfully led to surprising and profound insights, which were a delight.  I came away from the book thinking Vanderbilt was an excellent writer with many new and important ideas on the fascinating subject of nuclear weapons, the cold war, and national security generally -- subjects which can easily be made drole, heavy, boring and/or tedious.  For many, the so-called atomic era seems long gone and forgotten (and slightly silly in many aspects), but Vanderbilt makes the issues faced then seem relevant to many similar problems facing us today by placing them in a context of continuity.  Highly recommended to a broad audience.	2004-05-15
US	50609084	RLUI2IVENB8W7	0767916107	454814561	Why Men Don't Have a Clue and Women Always Need More Shoes: The Ultimate Guide to the Opposite Sex	Books	2	57	65	N	N	might be OK for total know-nothings	The basic attempt with this book was to use sex differences - which are all the rage these days - to make a relationships self-help book.  The self-help stuff requires the usual and worn-to-death case studies of couples, followed by nice/neat explanations showing us just how simple all this really is, while the sex differences material requires a more expository approach, discussing the latest in brain research, etc.  The net result is that instead of being coherent, the book comes across as being schizo, like it can't decide which kind of book it really wants to be.  Or maybe the two different authors wrote different chapters.  In other words, some of the book is good, a lot of it is so-so, and the rest not so great.  At times it's even ridiculous.<br />The sex differences stuff is so watered down and simple-minded as to be virtually ludicrous (not to mention useless).  Men are one-track minded hunters and women are caring/nurtering gatherers in this black and white universe.  Consequently, they're able to give simple and definite answers to nuanced questions and situations which are, of course, a little more complicated than they'd like to think.<br />In spite of a page in the intro making one think the authors are sympathetic to men, the net portrayal is of belching, farting, dirty-joke telling louts who won't put the toilet seat down, ask for directions, or let go of the TV remote - just like in any sitcom.  There's even a section on \\"retraining your man\\".  The section on lieing starts out by assuring us men and women lie in equal amounts, but then devolves into illustrating all the ways men lie to women.  I suppose we could have guessed from the cover being 70% pink that this book was mostly aimed at a female audience and therefore needs to constantly remind them how superior they are to men.  And there's some misleading info on how much men need/want women, for example it's stated without qualification that any/all sex for men is good, though I can assure theauthors that most men know very well the difference between good and bad sex, and all the shades between.<br />I found annoying all the plugs and mentions scatterd thru the text of the authors' previous book.  Also annoying were sentences that I'd just read repeated in bold type in between paragraphs, like I'd missed them the first time; though sometimes these bold face bits have quotes or not-too-funny jokes.  Altogether this wasn't a very good book.  Maybe 2 1/2 stars max.	2004-04-25
US	50609084	R2SCVG3JDY3TB6	0684862522	68819013	Mismatch : The Growing Gulf Between Women and Men	Books	2	14	34	N	N	More bushwa from the ivory tower crowd...	The best thing about this book is probably its title.  But the rest is a disappointment - unless you just need a source for all the latest exact figures on the topics covered here.  Hatcher treads well-worn ground with familiar statistics on the decline of marriage, the rise of divorce and out-of-wedlock births, etc., etc., and then pontificates on the underlying cause of or reason behind these social ills as if the numbers point in a straight line toward the usually ready and biology-free explanations which he provides.<br />Mostly these stories will be familiar in tone to those who've heard the PC/academic crowd before and a lot of the blame for what he sees as the growing divide between men and women falls on men - just as you've probably heard ad nauseum on Oprah or Dr Phil, the sitcoms, etc.  Hacker is too old-fashioned in his chivalrous attitude toward women to consider that maybe women's choices have something to do with it - i.e., that there's a dynamic going on which involves both sexes.  He seems like a typical \\"progressive\\" Neanderthal saying women can follow the Barbie Mantra (\\"Girls can be/do anything!\\") and men are just supposed to comply with all that women need of them like good little slaves.  Where's the flaw in that?<br />It's a pity that he didn't do some actual research on what others make of these matters because there's a fairly well developed literature out there which bears on the same statistics and reaches drastically differing conclusions and solutions.  But Hacker is oblivious.  And he doesn't seem to have talked to any real people.<br />For example, he fails to recognize that marriage these days confers no rights on men, only obligations.  (Some sacred institution...)  This has enormous implications which hardly anyone seems to grasp.  While Hacker cites the fact that the vast majority of divorces are initiated by women - 75% in some studies I've seen - he fails to connect this (as other studies have done) to the simple fact that familylaw biases the custody of kids toward the women; and while these \\"settlements\\" bind the man to his traditional role as breadwinner, it frees the woman from her traditional role vis a vis the man.  A man would have to be a fool to enter into such a \\"contract\\" (which the state will not only not enforce but will help one party break) and a woman would have to be a fool not to recognize the advantages of divorce.  When the chief purpose of marriage seems to be to supply woman with ex-husbands, it's suprising the divorce rate isn't higher than a mere 50%.  But you won't find a discussion of things like this in the book.<br />Sometimes Hacker goes entirely off the rails, as when he discusses inter-racial marriage (90+% of which involve a black man and a white woman) and the high proportion of black males in prison (relative to their representation in the population).  He concludes that the latter is being engineered by white males as a male-male sexual competition/jealousy sort of thing over white females.  If so, it ain't working very well!  I'd love to see what he makes of the fact that men as a whole outnumber *women* in prison by about 10 to 1...<br />So when the book isn't sadly predictable and blindered it's downright goofy.  I think Hacker, like all others I'm familiar with in academia who've attempted these topics, has it just about all wrong.  Too many numbers do not make for convincing cases.  1 1/2 stars.	2004-04-01
US	50609084	R2VHUC0Y08OVLM	0060530286	486596152	Mr. Right, Right Now!: How a Smart Woman Can Land Her Dream Man in 6 Weeks	Books	1	11	15	N	N	Be yourself, play the role of Snow White?	Yea, I know I'm not part of the intended audience for this book, but there aren't books like this for us guys, and so if you want to be found you're stuck plowing through this sad genre looking for clues as to what the other side is doing.<br />Well, the first thing you'll notice about this book is that it's not clear from the way the author writes whether you're supposed to take her seriously or whether you're just supposed to sit back in amazement and admire her for her sassy, &quot;breezy&quot;, hipper-than-thow style, which is so over-worn these days that I couldn't get past the first couple dozen pages.  It's almost barf-inducing.<br />Assuming the author does intend to be taken seriously -- she has a Plan after all, and lot's of the usual do's and don'ts -- what I read made it sound like she's totally schizo.  &quot;Just be yourself&quot; messages are mixed shortly thereafter with advice to be just like Snow White.  You're supposed to go after the love-at-first-sight-dizzy-in-love heights, but also act like you don't care at all (this allegedly attracts men like crazy).  It doesn't make any sense at all, and her general attitude towards men is so negative it makes me wonder what she wants with one anyway.	2004-01-31
US	50609084	R34DM6STPJ3TXE	1592230857	480928462	Get Your Dating Game on: A Field Guide to Playing for Kicks or Keeps	Books	2	8	11	N	N	Dating for dummies - girls only	Ok, pink is for girls.  We get that from the color of the book.  Perhaps the title should make it clear also.  The market is flooded with books like this for girls (while there's practically nothing out there for guys) so something in this genre really has to distinguish itself to be noteworthy.  This book doesn't even come close.  What we get are cartoon pictures of girls who make Barbie look short and obese (and also not up with the latest fashion trends), along with do's and don'ts for those with no common sense and/or who are incapable of thinking for themselves.  Are females really this dumb?  Maybe if you're a total beginner you don't already basically know this stuff, but unfortunately the author's tone makes it sound like she's presenting new and amazing revelations to the uninformed -- and is really proud to be doing so.<br />I especially found off-putting her generally sexist, women=cool/men=uncool attitude: i.e., if a guy puts something like \\"I own my own business\\" in a personals ad she translates this into \\"I don't have insurance\\" (pg 60), but if a gal puts \\"I'm 32 flavors and then some\\" (pg 59) it means she's \\"confident\\".  Right.  (There's another one of these on pg 46.)  Such anti-male double standards make me wonder what she wants with a guy anyway -- unless it's just to have him pay for her nights out: this gal's basically very old-fashioned and definitely into chivalry.  You get the drift, and if you haven't heard all this sort of stuff before in countless magazine articles (like what to wear to different kinds of places) you probably just aren't the dating/datable kind. [Oh, and whatever you do, don't follow the lame advice on pg 32 about getting chummy w/bartenders, or on pg 98-9 about hiding your emotions, or...]	2004-01-31
US	50609084	R5V6KWX53RDDK	0446531138	660682212	Why Men Marry Some Women and Not Others: The Fascinating Research That Can Land You the Husband of Your Dreams	Books	1	155	223	N	N	Men as relationship-objects	Yea, I know I'm not part of the intended audience for this book; for some curious reason they don't make books for men on this topic... Anyway, I can't give high marks to any book about men and marriage which doesn't start with the very fundamental fact that marriage confers no rights on men, only obligations.  What this implies is that a woman looking for a husband is basically looking for a chump.  Curiously, Molloy is close to discovering this crucial bit of information: he relates an anecdote about a woman who call a man an idiot (really) the first time they meet, and of course they then proceed in a short while on to happily-ever-after status.  To paraphrase Groucho Marx, I wouldn't want to have anything to do with any woman who would want me to be her husband.<br />Alone that was enough to drop the book down to 2-3 star level, but the real clincher was the episode of domestic violence (pgs 127-8) related in another anecdote which Molloy describes as \\"hysterical\\", as in \\"outrageously funny\\".  I cannot sanction such glib treatment of such a serious topic and therefore recommend people who think similarly shun this book entirely.  This episode occurs in a context where a woman is pressuring a man into marriage, and if you loosely equate such emotional pressure used against a man with the physical pressure a man might use against a woman to get sex, well you get the picture.<br />Besides those two fatal flaws, Molloy is pulling the ... that by interviewing people coming out of marriage license application bureaus that he is somehow able to elucidate their (especially the woman's) \\"Secrets\\".  But this is an illusion: since 85-90% of the population marries at some point you might as well do a general survey, with all the attendant problems with self-reporting and self-deception that anthropologists and sociologists are well aware of (and are ignored here).  The women with fresh marriage licenses have just gotten lucky, i.e., their turn has come up and it's not like they necessarily know anything other single women don't.  (In other words, part of the marketing for this book is based on women's jealousy; perhaps this is why there's a picture of a diamond ring on the cover rather that some generic hubby...)  What it boils down to is that a lot of what Molloy comes up with, and announces as if he's just come down from the mountain with The Truth, is largely spurious.  The book is entirely self-referential: he doesn't compare or contrast his \\"findings\\" with the work of others, as if he were the first to look into this topic.  Right.  This causes him to get several things exactly backward, such are the \\"discovery\\" that men want to marry up, which is actually a result of female strategies and \\"selection effects\\".<br />What's not spurious is generally rather obvious, or just plain wrong IMO.  Like other books in this extensive genre, the whole thing is a mix of truth, half-truth, and the downright ridiculous (like going around with a book on your head and rolled up washclothes on each shoulder - to improve your posture.)  Molloy does come across as being something really old-fashioned out of the 1950's -- he's always women's champion.  Only a very traditional (and fairly naive) woman *might* find something useful here, though how one would separate the valuable material from the [not valuble] I don't know.  Due to space limitations I've only touched on a few of the many things wrong w/this book - my critique could easily be several times longer.they necessarily know anything other single women don't.  (In other words, part of the marketing for this book is based on women's jealousy; perhaps this is why there's a picture of a diamond ring on the cover rather that some generic hubby...)  What it boils down to is that a lot of what Molloy comes up with, and announces as if he's just come down from the mountain with The Truth, is largely spurious.  The book is entirely self-referential: he doesn't compare or contrast his \\"findings\\" with the work of others, as if he were the first to look into this topic.  Right.  This causes him to get several things exactly backward, such are the \\"discovery\\" that men want to marry up, which is actually a result of female strategies and \\"selection effects\\".<br />What's not spurious is generally rather obvious, or just plain wrong IMO.  Like other books in this extensive genre, the whole thing is a mix of truth, half-truth, and the downright ridiculous (like going around with a book on your head and rolled up washclothes on each shoulder - to improve your posture.)  Molloy does come across as being something really old-fashioned out of the 1950's -- he's always women's champion.  Only a very traditional (and fairly naive) woman *might* find something useful here, though how one would separate the valuable material from the [not valuble] I don't know.  Due to space limitations I've only touched on a few of the many things wrong w/this book - my critique could easily be several times longer.	2004-01-12
US	50609084	R29AGSX0LHBY0V	0786868821	913926982	Cad: Confessions of a Toxic Bachelor	Books	2	5	6	N	N	I couldn't get half way through it...	I really despise books which bear little relation to their title, and this is a pretty prime example.  The cover wording was evidently made up by someone who'd fondled one too many copies of Cosmo.  It's entirely misleading regarding what's inside.<br />First, the author is no cad.  (I know because I am one and he's never at the meetings...)  In fact, Marin is from a pretty decent Toronto family/neighborhood, got a first job at Harper's after journalism grad school, and did other respectable and semi-adult things (like try to make money) after.  Not typical cad territory, I'm betting.  What seems to qualify him as a cad is that he occasionally dates women, maybe sleeps with them, and then doesn't marry them.  Also, that he keeps some sort of diary (i.e., secret un-PC notes).  Whoo-wee, call out the Terminator!<br />Second, Marin is no bachelor -- if you take a bachelor to be a never-married male above a certain age.  He's divorced.  And the whole first part of the book has insufferable and totally uninteresting details about his wife, how they met and fell in love, their typical break-up, ladeedadeeda...  And even if you give him some leeway because they didn't have any kids in their approx. four years together, he's not even (or much over) thirty; ya gotta be over 35 (40's better) to really qualify as a bachelor.  (Quick, someone contact ABC!)  I think the cover writer just thought &quot;toxic bachelor&quot; sounded hip and disparaging of males in the way now deemed to be socially acceptable in some unenlightened circles populated by bigots -- much like &quot;testosterone poisoning&quot; was a few years ago.  Ok, so she probably took one too many Feminist Studies classes in college learned to hate men.  Insightful the term is not.  Marin actually comes across as a pretty nice and decent guy with more or less typical dating woes.  Which makes for really boring reading.<br />Third, the only part of what you see on the cover that might vaguely be accurate is the &quot;confessions&quot; part, since the material *is* autobiographical.  But it's not like these pages were beaten out of him under a bare bulb after hours of duress and torture.  At times he almost sounds like he's boasting a little.  (Cads always do that.)  I guess the idea is to make women think they're being given the inside scoop on the psyche of the elusive single male, which they're not -- at least not to any great degree IMO.  The term &quot;confessions&quot; suggests the material should at least be unusual and maybe even interesting, but this is not.<br />The plethora of virtually meaningless detail (one of the common hazards of keeping a diary), the lack of much if anything new in the way of perspective, and the author's tendency to try too hard at sounding pithy and clever -- all this made it difficult to get more than about 120 pages into this thing before seeing the writing on the wall and giving up.  And I really don't care how it turned out or even why he was writing it all down a decade later.	2003-05-20
US	50609084	R2BHH2RZNDLEGB	076790639X	777612594	Why There Are No Good Men Left: The Romantic Plight of the New Single Woman	Books	2	90	109	N	N	Why there are no good researchers?	There's so much the matter with this book I've only got room here to touch on a few of the main things.<br />First, I'm not sure whether it's good news or bad that the main part of the title has little to do with what the book's actually about. That is to say, the book isn't about men and how bad they are. Rather it's all about women (as per the sub-title). In fact, BDW's chief source of information on men, apart from her female informants, is a Gallup poll and her twenty-something son. Aside from appearing as relationship objects, men don't show up until pg 143 -- and then they're given only a couple of paragraphs to say anything. This lack of balance in perspective is symptomatic. With the title being what it is, any man reading this book is bound to feel both ignored and presumptively blamed for all those poor baby's unsatisfactory love lives.<br />Well, the Great American Man Shortage has been around for over twenty years, from the time when the first boomer women started getting into their low thirties, and it's been a staple of pop-feminism and female media ever since. Genevieve Wood's \\"No Good Men\\" is only one title in what would be a small library one could easily assemble on the topic. Somewhat bewilderingly, then, BDW ignores all this previous work, and even states more than once that the subject hasn't received enough attention! This is just plain bad scholarship in a field that doesn't have very high standards to begin with.<br />Then we get to pg 10, where the real demographic data are presented: Among those aged 30-34, there are four never-married men (30%) for every three never-married women (20%). So there's not even a man shortage, but instead there's a woman shortage!  You could drop the lowest quarter of the men out of the picture (on whatever basis) and there still would be a man for every woman. (The lone exception is the media capitol of NYC, where the ratios are reversed...) But BDW blows right by this seemingly crucial datapoint. I suppose itwould wreck the book's thesis and call for some other book to be written -- a book which is unthinkable and unpublishable in today's world. BDW's penchant for avoiding the obvious truth runs like a thread through the entire book and it was extremely annoying.<br />The figures she presents later in the book show that 85-90% of women marry at some point. The 10-15% who don't don't exactly constitute a huge social crisis based on what were given. Some of these are bound to be opposed on principle to marriage, while many of the rest cohabitate. And while BDW wants to go on and on about the evils of cohabitation, she doesn't seem to grasp the fundamental point that under today's laws marriage is little more than notorized cohabitation. If all of Christine's friends are \\"vanishing into marriage\\" (pg 23), this doesn't exactly point to a vast man shortage -- except for poor Christine.<br />Then there were all the little mis-statements. I think I wrote \\"no\\" or \\"wrong\\" in the margin about twenty times. For example, BDW states more girls than boys are born. This is exactly backwards -- 105 boys are born for every 100 girls (and even more boys are conceived). This seems like a basic fact of the situation which someone presenting themselves as an authority should get correct. That no editor caught this obvious mistake (or numerous others) points to a certain shoddiness.<br />BDW makes another error in claiming the dating/mating system has changed dramatically in the last generation or so, in favor of male interests in particular. This is preposterous. All the average man has heard the last fifteen or twenty years from women in general is how much less they're going to do for men, and how much more they're expecting from men. She compounds the error in logic by contending that since the system isn't working for women it must be working great for men. This simply doesn't follow; it makes more sense that it either works for both or neither.<br />And BDW misunderstands the role offinancial and professional success for the two sexes. The male strives for these things in order to be attractive to a member of the opposite sex, who he is then willing to devote these resources to along with their children. One might say he uses his success to create love. A woman, on the other hand, does this only very rarely. Instead she uses her success to allow her to be independent of men and love. Therefore her mate value doesn't depend in the least on how many high-priced degrees and promotions she has. BDW somehow thinks it should and that it's unfair that it doesn't. When the UberFems decide to support males with few marketable skills (and their children), it will. As a further insult to the reader, BDW conflates the rare high-achievers with all women who go to college, again making things sound worse than they are.<br />To sum up, this is not by any stretch a worthwhile contribution to the literature on the subject.	2003-05-03
US	50609084	R2J0KSLJHFNJ2R	087113778X	50018220	Killing Dragons: The Conquest of the Alps	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Almost entirely Mount Blanc &amp; the Matterhorn	It was hard to decide whether to give this book four stars or five.  The book isn't anywhere near to being a complete history of the conquest of the alps (con), but what is here is extremely well-written and interesting stuff which I could barely put down (pro) even though it's a pretty hefty 360 pages in all.<br />The first half of the book (176 pgs) is devoted to Mount Blanc, starting in prehistory, working up to its first ascent in 1786, and then continuing on up til the mid-nineteenth century.  More than just the climbs themselves enters into the story.  Fleming is as much concerned with the philosophical and cultural meaning of the exploits as with the exploits themselves.  So he tries to give us a feel for their context in the wider scheme of things and what the people were like who were doing these things.  The amount and variety of material which Fleming has researched and brought into the mix is what makes the reading so fascinating.  There's everything from what the mountain villages were like to the scientific debate over why glaciers move.<br />Most of the second half of the book concerns itself with the eventual first ascent of the Matterhorn (1865) and the events surrounding it in the decade before.  If Mount Blanc was all about ice, the Matterhorn is obviously all about rock.  The author's obviously British perspective weighs heavily in here, which is where we get the most info on first ascents other than the two principals -- esp. if they were done by Whymper as warm-ups for the big prize.<br />Only the last twenty pages or so is devoted to the &quot;modern&quot; (post-Mummery) era, and the concentration so far as the detail is concerned is on the Eiger North Face.<br />So even if the coverage is much more limited than I would have preferred, Fleming is such an accomplished story-teller that I could recommend this to climbers and non-mountaineers alike.	2003-03-28
US	50609084	R2B7VUQPBGCPBS	0898863783	437728002	The High Mountains of the Alps	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Stupendous!	Even though I'm a mountaineer, climber and photographer, I didn't feel like I knew very much about the high Alps until I got this book.  Most of what you might see on this side of the globe about the Alps is directed at the casual tourist who hardly leaves the valleys and the pavement.  This book is quite different in that it's aimed primarily at the mountaineer, adventurer and lover of high alpine wilderness.<br />Each of the several dozen high peaks gets generally 4-8 pages which have basic info about the peak, the story (brief) of its first ascent(s), as well as the later climbing history of its other routes and walls, plus a condensed box with route gradings and descriptions, needed maps, nearby avenues of approach from civilization, available huts and the like -- all the vital info you'd seem to need if you were going in to tackle one of these beauties.<br />The whole thing is illustrated profusely with photos which are both very informative and stunning in their beauty.  Even if you have no interest in climbing, the book is worth the price just for its photos alone.  Yes, this technically makes it a coffee table book, but unlike any other I've seen.  Each turn of the page makes you think *this* peak is *the* most beautiful -- until you get to the next one.  I especially liked the way many of the photos (at least one for each peak, usually two) are presented in an annotated, line-sketch form so you can see exactly where the routes which are described in the text lie on the various hi-res photos (many taken from the air or adjacent high routes).<br />This book has so much going for it that it's few flaws don't pull it down out of the 5-star category: 1) I believe the english edition is a translation from the german original; it's a very good translation, but the book assumes a certain familiarity with the subject matter and the region which would have benefited from a glossary and an extra sentence here and there. 2) Each geographical section of the Alps is onlyallowed one (pretty decent) map, so for a given peak you may be flipping back and forth 50+ pages alot. 3) There's nothing explaining the climb gradings.  It wasn't until I compared some of the photos showing climbers (roped) on the actual routes with the descriptions in the text and the gradings (in the condensed box) that I realized a class III climb in the Alps is not the same as one here in the Rockies; I believe the book uses the UIAA system (where a III is the same as a 5.3 or 5.4 on the Yosemite Decimal System); this is an important oversight since someone could seriously underestimate the difficulty and think they were headed for a walk-up when in fact a technical climb lay ahead.  I've never seen a climbing guide (though this is so much more) where the difficulty grades were not explained with at least a paragraph or two.  I'm still confused about what the &quot;AD+&quot; type ratings included along with the roman numerals are meant to signify.  In other words, the book's abundant climbing info is less accessible here in the US than one might have wished.	2003-03-25
US	50609084	RG9GQTKYX3K49	0066212553	809249431	Speed Dating: The Smarter, Faster Way to Lasting Love	Books	2	33	42	N	N	Dating For Dweebs?	If you think \\"Speed Dating\\" is going to be about those relatively new round-robin events you may have been hearing about lately where people get 6 or 10 mini-dates of something like 7 or 10 minutes duration each in one evening, that would be logical and yet you'd be wrong.  Even though the authors claim to be the inventors of those now-popular events, and to have a decade's worth of experience putting such events on, this book isn't about that.  It only gets eight superficial pages in the appendix, six of `em about the rules for such events.  This is too bad because it would have been interesting to get the low-down on these things from some seasoned experts.<br />Instead, the book is about a general, goal-directed dating philosophy based heavily on the Jewish Talmud (book of wisdom) which is designed to help you find - you guessed it - your \\"soul mate\\".  Yes, it's another one of those kinds of books.  It turns people/men into relationship objects and dating into work, helping one develop the equivalent of a \\"Man Plan\\".  (Yes, the book tries to be gender neutral but it's clearly aimed at a female audience.)  The goal, of course, is that holy grail of modern womanhood, marriage and happily-ever-after-land.<br />One wonders when dating became so rule-laden.  Even though the book is not very long, not to mention that it's broken down into inane bite-sized pieces, it doesn't seem probable that anyone trying to keep all this well-worn and old-fashioned advice in their head (if they don't already know the schtick) would be a very good date.  It's especially annoying that the author's opinions are expressed as absolutes with continual cheery guarantees of eventual success if you just be yourself and do what they tell you to.<br />Among the sillier ideas presented is the one about developing a \\"dating team\\" of qualified adults to help you prepare for the big day and disassemble the happenings afterword.  There are even questions to ask on dates, as one zooms in on whether he is The One.<br />I also thought their \\"key aspects of the personality\\" chart, which appeared a couple of times, was mostly bogus based on what I've studied about psychology.  Doesn't the average consumer, in this world of nearly limitless choices, believe strongly that their possessions (the outermost and therefore least significant circle in their diagram) reflect their core values (the innermost circle in the diagram)?  But the authors don't bother themselves with such considerations.  Again, they simply state their half-baked notions as The Way It Is.<br />Books like this are one of the reasons *why* \\"today's dating scene can be brutal\\" (the book's very first sentence).  But, hey, even a crummy strategy is better than none at all.  It worked for them -- though I got the impression they developed all these ideas *after* getting married -- so it could work for you too.  Dream on IMO.	2003-03-13
US	50609084	R2CEE7I5LLFOF9	0449912604	463000180	The First Sex: The Natural Talents of Women and How They Are Changing the World	Books	2	26	42	N	N	Female Supremacists Will Love This Book	...this book is rather horrendous in its relentlessly cheery women-are-so-much-better-than-men-at-what-really-matters attitude.  I could barely make it through the first couple of dozen pages; it was that unbelievable.  I'd even say it was so bad that she lost me in the first three pages with her statements about \\"The Second Sex\\".  (If you don't buy what she says about that you may as well save your time and stop there.)  And what's worse is that it's like this from wall to wall, as I discovered when I started jumping around, chapter to chapter, trying out the topics that most interested me, until I'd pretty much read the whole thing -- in utter amazement that anyone could think this way.<br />As a scientist I'm prepared to listen to reasoned and complex arguments, but Fisher usually just states her conclusions about things as if she'd recently come down from the mountain with The Tablets of Truth and expects us to believe it all even though common sense and experience tells us that a lot of what she says is just plain nonsense.  What \\"evidence\\" she presents is all one-sided (things are rarely that simple) and meant only to lead to a predictable point.  There's no place in this book for any caveats, much less the reader who may ask \\"but wait, what about _____?\\"  It's not on Fisher's radar screen.  She doesn't seem to get it.  (Just like a woman...)  If you're looking for subtle, unexpected, and profound truths, you won't find any in this book.<br />...  \\"The First Sex\\" is nothing but a huge embarassment.  It should be a scandal that such a book came out of a mainstream publisher from someone with a position (and a PhD) at what one would have thought was a reputable institution.  I suppose it's a sign that academia isn't what it once was.<br />I'll give it 1/2 - 1 star above the minimum because the chapters on dating/mating actually weren't terrible, not that they were all that great either.	2003-03-12
US	50609084	R21CGC7VUEGC1P	0684842254	29380601	The CODE: Time Tested Secrets for Getting What You Want from Women- Without Marrying Them!	Books	5	3	6	N	Y	This book is hilarious!	If you're looking for a how-to-pick-up-chicks book, this isn't exactly it.  In fact, this book doesn't officially exist.  But it is rumored to present an attitude which one can only describe as being simultaneously warped and insightful -- in a way perhaps only a guy can appreciate.<br />It's not a long book, but I had a great time reading it.  I was constantly looking forward to what new weird idea about women and the mating game they were going to come up with next.  If you're in some rut about this subject from having been constantly exposed to all the mainstream media garbage out there, this is a book to break you out of it before it's too late (if it isn't already).  But remember, the authors live in NYC, which has THE most favorable male-to-female ratio (for guys at least) of any city in the country... so you may not be able to get away with quite as flippant an attitude as they present here.<br />But, yea, I really liked The Code -- I mean, where else can you get a couple of hours of side-splitting entertainment for the dollar or two a used copy costs around here?  And learn how not to be a total chump and/or keep women from converting you from the prince you are into the frog they want and like.  I think it may be the single best book presenting the contemporary male view against marriage which doesn't get into law, public policy, and all that Really Important stuff.  (Drop me a line if you know of another good one...)  Now I know what Really Important Thing to look for in a girl before I consider marrying her.  Get a copy for yourself and buy several more for your best non-female friends.	2002-11-29
US	50609084	R1OGKH8Y866K85	0452283574	410344383	The Guide to Picking Up Girls	Books	3	29	35	N	N	This book is mistitled...	First, I should probably say I'm not the sort of Neanderthal who hits on girls to dance or for a date.  (Hitting girls is wrong, right?)  I've recently read several examples from this genre as part of a study.  The thing they all have in common is that they first have to seduce you, the reader, into buying them.  They do this by promising the fulfillment of a fantasy.  This book does that by its title and a picture of a PYT in a low-cut dress on the cover.  But when you read the intro you learn the book's definition of &quot;success&quot; is merely talking with a girl long enough to get her phone number!  This is not exactly what most people would think is meant by &quot;picking up girls&quot;.  After that, you have to call and get a date, but the book is very clear that it won't help you with what to do on a date.  So the book is really just about meeting and talking to girls -- laying your rap on them, to use the author's jargon.<br />With that said, the book is pretty typical in describing the work (s**twork some would say) a guy has to do to earn his way to equality with a girl.  You have to present an air of confidence and strength, overcome your fear of rejection, read body language, etc.  All pretty much common knowledge and beginner's stuff.  But I can say the author's no-nonsense approach and sometime novel perspective on the meeting/mating game kept me interested enough to read the entire 130 (overpriced) pages.  And I do have to say most of the advice was pretty good for what it was.  (There's a sense in which all generalizations are lies...)  There are no complicated secret or magic theories here and I think a woman could read it without getting upset.  Maybe the best sections were on techniques for using a &quot;wingman&quot; (buddy) in various situations, as well as the general one of keeping things in focus and on track toward the grand goal: finding an unattached girl with her &quot;switch&quot; (that would be her dating switch) ON and getting her phone number.<br />It probably helps that the author is a TV producer who lives in the city (NYC) which has the most favorable (for guys) girl-to-boy ratio.  Others in less favorable circumstances may not be able to pull off the sort of facile attitude presented here.  I'll give it 2 1/2 stars and generously round up for that in spite of all the book doesn't have.  If you're needing some basic know-how rather than know-what or know-whether the book is a quick read and might be worth a look.	2002-11-09
US	50609084	R3TAGYKV5NNTU0	0071400281	49969730	Eve's Seed: Biology, the Sexes, and the Course of History	Books	1	11	38	N	N	Avoid At All Costs!!	Let me hopefully save you from having to plow through several hundred pages of bunk.  Even though McElvaine takes issue with a few feminists along the way, this is basically a feminist work: McElvaine finds male malfeasance and female disadvantage in all places and times down through history.<br />Demonstrating how a little knowledge can be a dangerous things, he starts out by wading ankle deep into the currently trendy and sales-worthy waters of evolutionary psychology in attempting to write a history rooted in our evolved nature, but he never even distinghuishes in Darwin's theory between *natural* selection and *sexual* selection; indeed, the latter term is not to be found anywhere in the book.  McElvaine's knowledge of things evolutionary wouldn't get him a passing grade in an easy 101 class.  He has an entire chapter on sex differences, where he bends over backwards to minimize these and downplay their significance -- then he bases his whole crazy story throughout the rest of the book on rather Victorian stereotypes about the sexes, particularly the shortcomings of males; i.e., men are uncivilized aggressive beasts, whereas women are gentle nurturing angels. In short, masculine/male = bad, feminine/female = good.  You know the drill.  It's called sexism...I could easily go on -- there's that much which can be made fun of here -- but will end by asking a salient question not posed by the book: if human nature is unchanged over historic times, why even bother with the Rorschach test of the dim uncertain past and pre-history when attempting to get at what that nature is?  Why not just observe current behavior?	2002-11-06
US	50609084	R7WON44DDSA8X	0465070663	683809372	Married: A Predicament	Books	3	9	16	N	N	Not much of a title...	It's difficult to give high marks to a book about marriage which doesn't include the phrase &quot;marriage confers no rights on men, only obligations&quot;.  Thus, I'd say this book is mostly for women.  Between the misc biographical info on the author's own two marriages and the various philosophical meanderings with regard to the subject, the main message here is that marriage is an extremely fragile object (not that Roiphe is the sort of author to boil it down so).  The fact that love is a glue which can evaporate rather predictably is not exactly news, as it's the prime rationale behind efforts to involve the state in enforcing the marriage contract and strengthening the institution.  But this isn't that sort of book.  Rather, it's the sort which raises a lot of questions and only sometimes provides tentative answers.  Some may say this makes the book seem deep and profound.  I nearly lost interest half way through, though I did like some of the second half better than the first (such as the section on arranged marriages).  There were one or two gems of wisdom to be gleaned, but not enough to make me really enthusiastic and recommend the book.<br />I had several gripes.  Roiphe makes several patently ridiculous statements along the way without seeming to realize it.  Maybe she needs to challenge her sacred cows more.  Her many references to characters in various novels will likely be lost on someone who wasn't an English major (or maybe a Feminist Studies major).  And she's stuck in the paradigm where it's always progressive liberal feminist types battling it out with traditional conservative christian family values types.  In other words, she's oblivious to any possible third, fourth, or fifth perspective, which can make a reader feel left out or unimportant.  Heck, she wouldn't like me anyway because I climb mountains, an activity she only shows she doesn't understand and therefore probably shouldn't be mentioning to make a point.  (Same goes for day-trading the stock market.)  I also thought it somewhat strange that hubbie #1 from 20+ years ago, with whom there was much drama, looms larger than current longtime hubbie #2 who is a ghost-like figure here.<br />All-in-all, this wasn't a total waste of time to read, but it might have been better had it been distilled down to one of those very lengthy essay/articles which Harper's magazine has. 2 1/2 - 3 stars, though I'll be charitable and round up because I'm a big fan of daughter Katie's work.	2002-11-05
US	50609084	R2RYRE8LHP43FV	1582342024	760922117	Wifework: What Marriage Really Means for Women	Books	2	14	121	N	N	Old Blather - Why Bother?	\\"Sure women's work is devalued. It's devalued by women to make it unattractive to men.\\" - Jack Kammer<br />About all you need to know about this book is that it passes the Mary Lefkowitz test: \\"feminist theory guarantees that researchers will discover male bias and oppression in every civilization and time.\\" In other words, the book is pretty much a total bitchfest about how rough women have it. Unless you've been brain-dead the last thirty years you've certainly heard it all before ad nauseum. Maushart's feminacentric opinions on this and that add little or nothing new of substance to the topic. And there was something mildly annoying about the author's \\"voice\\" which gave me the impression that I couldn't stand to be in this woman's presence for more than about five minutes before running screaming for the hills.<br />Basically, the book's message is that women are pitiable. Never mind that white women in the first world countries lead the easiest, healthiest, safest, and longest lives ever in the history of the planet. All the whining only leads to the conclusion that there's something pathological about female psychology which prevents women from ever being happy (much less appreciative) no matter how much is done for them, the occasional unconvincing disclaimer aside.<br />A prime example of how Maushart spins the interpretation of things to fit her thesis has to do with the well-known fact that divorced men re-marry at nearly twice the rate at which divorced women do.  In simple-minded fashion she takes this piece of data as signifying that marriage is so good for men they can't wait to jump back into it, whereas women have obviously learned the lesson she wants them to have learned and are wary of re-marrying.  The truth, however, is a bit more complicated: Since women get custody of the kids 90% of the time, a divorced woman is likely to be saddled with several youngsters; not only does this make it more difficult for her to get out into the dating and mating market, it drastically reduces her value in that market -- especially if she's much over 30, has lost her figure and gained some tonnage, developed an attitude about men, and yet is holding out for the perfect soulmate and knight in shining armor as if she were still some nineteen year-old princess.  (The single's sites are full of postings by such women).  In short, she may not have nearly the same opportunity for re-marrying that her ex does (who has to re-marry if he wants to take another chance at yet having a real family).  All the bruhaha from such women about an alleged shortage of good men, how men are committment-phobic, etc. is evidence of this lack of opportunity for her IMO. Moreover, with child support payments likely coming in, she still has some of the breadwinning benefits of a marriage partner without the obligations to him. In other words, the changes in the laws and customs over the last two generations have made divorce, rather than marriage, very attractive to women -- which helps explain why wives file for divorce 2:1 or 3:1 over husbands. Maushart is oblivious to these factors and the plausible perspective derived therefrom.<br />The most telling refutation of the book's thesis is passed over by the author when she briefly relates how she was on public assistance for awhile between her two marriages. Well, if the wife role is so all-important then why do we have government-as-husband programs for women but not government-as-wife programs for men? (That would be real equality.) Maushart never considers the possibilty. She also fails to explain what the h__ she was doing getting married in the first place -- not just once, but twice -- I thought everyone knew marriage was *the* way in which men oppress women. If idealogical feminists were prohibited from ever marrying (or maybe just writing books about it when they make a bad choice and it's a disaster) we wouldn't have to waste forests of trees printing atrocious books like all the ones in this well-populated genre.<br />I'll give the book a star above the minimum for decent production values: it's obviously been edited and proof-read, but the content is pretty lame; maybe it'll keep some women out of trouble for the time it takes `em to read it.s well-populated genre.<br />I'll give the book a star above the minimum for decent production values: it's obviously been edited and proof-read, but the content is pretty lame; maybe it'll keep some women out of trouble for the time it takes `em to read it.	2002-11-03
US	50609084	R2SS28EOZ275DT	0375505407	556311516	The Starter Marriage and the Future of Matrimony	Books	2	10	19	N	N	Not that much here	This book has received way more hype and attention than it deserves. Perhaps the author has shown up on all the TV shows dealing with marriage and relationships (i.e., women's shows) because the gist of the book can be conveyed in a couple of sentences (or just the catchy title) and is easily grasped. So there's enough of an idea here for a decent magazine article but not a book.<br />I didn't think the book was convincing in its main theses about this supposedly new form of marriage: a) that this is a new phenomenon; b) that it signals some new and important trend about marriage.<br />First, I believe marriages which ended after a few years without the birth of a child have been around for as long as people have been getting married. Researchers have been telling us a long time that infertility is right up there as one of the main reasons for divorce (first or second). Having children within a couple of years of a marriage was generally expected both by society and the marrying pair. In some societies, a marriage wasn't really official until a child came along. Some percentage of couples are just not biologically viable in this regard. When a child didn't happen the couple split up to seek their fortunes elsewhere. Yes, this fact was usually not highly advertised in the community for obvious reasons. It was best to put the episode in the past and move on, especially while the woman was still reasonably young. The introduction of oral contraceptives forty years ago added a new twist to this, namely intentional \\"infertility\\" for a possibily extended period of time (until the couple was ready to have a child). And, yes, more women spending their twenties pursuing careers of various sorts adds yet another obvious twist, but I don't think the author had a sufficiently good grip on the fundamental factors to really impress me; instead she seems distracted by things which are only marginally relevant IMO.<br />I could also add an anecdotal story about someone, a baby-boomer, who ended a \\"starter marriage\\" after 4-5 years exactly as per the definition in the book nearly twenty years ago -- again casting doubt in my mind as to whether this is really something new with the Gen-X'ers; perhaps this couple was just way ahead of their time. (Both shortly found new partners and started having kids.) More demographic data could have made the case the book is trying to make better than the many tales of shattered expectations and broken marriages that are related.<br />Well, if this is maybe not really a new thing then the idea that it's signalling some new trend in marriage is also dubious.  I think marriage has been changing in several ways as of late, but this book didn't really nail it from my perspective.<br />I didn't think the book was terrible, just that a lot of it was padded with material which really wasn't needed or made only minor, peripheral points. I give it 2 1/2 stars and round down because it concentrates too much on women's concerns.  It might be more valuable as a semi-therapeutic read for someone (esp. a woman) who had experienced a first, childless marriage and was trying to process what it all meant.	2002-10-29
US	50609084	R6EPLFWPXP0VT	1555914195	489572134	Colorado's Thirteeners	Books	3	12	19	N	N	Not always what I need.	While filled with approach and route info, this book is less than I'd hoped for or expected. The maps are printed at such a small scale that you almost need a magnifying glass to read them, I found the route numbering system and many of the extremely detailed route descriptions confusing even on climbs I'd already done (does anyone really have a sense of what 0.1 mi is?), and few of the photos are really of much help - better captions would certainly help. Many of the routes I'd expected to see described weren't mentioned at all even though the book is pretty hefty, partly because of a lot of duplication of material.  I've found the accuracy of the driving distances to various waypoints to vary considerably - sometimes they're right on, other times they're long by up to 10%.  And I think they've misclassified several of the climbs, though partly this is due to a confusion over whether they're using the Colorado standard for 3rd and 4th Class climbs or the California standard.<br />I could also say I found the closing essay on guide books in general both puzzling and annoying. The authors write as if their's is the first book (or webpage) in this area ever revealed to the world when it's not; the essay only highlights the fact that they ignore all who have gone before.<br />The book is not a total waste of money, but I'll probably stick with my 1st ed Garratt & Martin and/or Rosebrough (for the San Juans) as my primary sources even if they're not the most up-to-date books out there.  Perhaps a later edition will be better than this 3 - 3 1/2 star effort.	2002-06-28
US	50609084	R1L53FOKUYSV5C	0828320489	842441166	Exposing Feminism: How Moral Concepts of Feminism Hurt America	Books	1	0	0	N	Y	I had to return my copy	No one is a stauncher men's libber and supporter of men's rights than I am, but this book was so lousy that I had to send it back.  Sieberman comes across as the sort of guy who rushes out of his house to yell at the kids to get off of his lawn.  The writing was only marginally coherent, and while I might agree with some of his anti-feminist positions they just weren't approached from the right perspective IMO.  I think he really missed the point, and he made me feel somewhat embarassed to be on basically the same side of many of the issues he dealt with.  There are many much much better books out there which handle these topics better.	2001-12-25
US	50609084	R4VNYODV7V767	0684853213	855973047	The SHADOW UNIVERSITY: The Betrayal of Liberty on America's Campuses	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A goldmine of information!	I don't have much to add to all the positive reviews here, except that I found the book both inspiring and helpful (esp. the chapter on the history of 1st Amendment litigation).  The shear number of instances cited is absolutely incredible.  (After finishing the book I was somewhat amazed by their apology at the beginning about leaving so many cases out...)  The book is written with both extreme clarity and passion.  The biggest growth area on campuses the last decade or so has been in the number of administrators, so it was good to see their often dubious benefit get some badly needed attention.<br />One very minor quibble I had might be with the way student and faculty issues are somewhat intermingled -- the lack of any mention of non-tenured faculty makes be conclude they have the least rights of all on university campuses today (which is dealt with in the excellent book &quot;The Invisible Faculty&quot;).  But all in all this is one great book.	2001-12-25
US	50609084	R10WBTUV6BL46H	0773522727	759414473	Spreading Misandry: The Teaching of Contempt for Men in Popular Culture	Books	5	85	94	N	Y	Dynamite!!	(...) this book (in spite of a few small flaws) is perhaps the best thing dealing with men's issues to come down the pike in the last couple of years.  And that includes Warren Farrell's last two books, the first of which, \\"Women Can't Hear What Men Don't Say\\", deals with much the same topic (though it's nevertheless distinct in its particulars).  The critique Nathanson & Young offer up is absolutely devastating and one can only hope that it opens up an entirely new field of badly needed criticism because, as extensive as the book is, it barely touches the surface when one stops to think about it.  For example, the immensely popular \\"Frazier\\" TV show isn't even mentioned, and Seinfeld only appears in a footnote -- so there's much material yet to be mined, especially at the rate the garbage is being produced for dozens of channels.<br />One weak spot I noticed was the tendency to analyze works from the early 90's rather than more recent offerings.  I got the impression much of the material had sat on the shelf for a long time and it made me wonder why this was, so it would have been nice to have had some explanation of this, perhaps in the preface.  Because of the ephemeral nature of \\"hits\\", I wasn't sure that I'd even heard of some of the films they go into great depths on.  This was only a minor drawback, but I did wonder why, if they were going back in time some, they ignored, for example, the mid-80's (`85?) Best (sic) Picture \\"Out of Africa\\", which seemed a prime example of many of their themes (which also touch on race), while perhaps trying too hard to make their case on one or two other films.  No matter, I'm being picky.  No book as impassioned as this could be absolutely perfect.  They successfully make it impossible for anyone who reads this book -- even someone already somewhat sensitive to the central idea -- to ever look at popular media quite the same way again, which is exactly what they intended.  Even if their exact theory as to *why* all this is going on might be subject to some more debate IMO, the overwhelming evidence they present is more than reason enough to read the book.  I know I'll be re-reading sections of my copy for a long time to come in order to fully absorb all the important ideas here.	2001-12-18
US	50609084	R2H08UINTHAOZ5	1555425178	608118679	The Invisible Faculty: Improving the Status of Part-Timers in Higher Education	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Excellent expose w/solid suggestions	This is a must-read for anyone concerned about higher education in America in any way.  The causes and consequences of having half (or more -- at both our community college and the local branch of the U it's 70%) of the student credit hours taught by &quot;contract&quot; employees, many of whom teach a full load for 1/3rd the pay and no benefits, are layed out in great detail for all involved.  With college education costs going up at a rate exceeding the rate of inflation by several times over the last decade or more, this book should also be of interest to taxpayers wanting to know where all the money is going.  The book ends with a most useful and helpful list of several dozen sound and concrete things which could be done to improve things (if anyone really cared).  Get a copy for yourself and also buy one to send to a local Dean or University President!	2001-12-03
US	50609084	RKP1FMHMAPFG8	038533527X	591661632	Still She Haunts Me: A Novel	Books	4	6	10	N	N	Can't believe I'm the first to review this book...	First of all, Katie Roiphe is a very talented writer; this book had no slow spots and was easy &amp; entertaining reading.  I've read her previous two books and this one is true to her early excellent form while being in a quite new direction.<br />I rarely read fiction so I wouldn't know how it stacks up against other books in the &quot;novel&quot; category, but I thought the setting and characters were well-drawn, especially the former.<br />My main question after reading the book is about whether or not fictional writing using actual historical characters should really be called a novel.  After all, these are not new (i.e., novel) characters.  Roiphe is clearly launching, under the cover of the &quot;fiction&quot; heading, what she thinks is plausible speculation about the mysterious relationship between Alice and Lewis Carroll.  The story as she writes it does come across as being plausible in most regards, not that I think she has the crucial plot twist (which I won't give away) correct.<br />I'd have liked for the Author's Note which appeared at the end to have been at the beginning -- I was constantly confused throughout the book about whether or not the correspondence and the excerpts from Carroll's diary were real or made up.  Perhaps that was intentional.  It was easy enough to set the conundrum aside, and the effect was definitely to cause me to question what's real and what's not, which seemed appropriate given the subject matter.	2001-10-24
US	50609084	RPNTP66AQVMLC	068811024X	390969586	Not Guilty: The Case in Defense of Men	Books	5	9	11	N	Y	A wonderful book!	Being a long-time fan of Warren Farrell's (and other's) work in this area, I've known of this book for quite awhile.  It took me several years to get around to scaring up a copy, but it was well worth it.  This is one really great book!  My only regret was that it was nearly a decade old by the time I got to it, not that things have changed that much.  For me, it's one of the three best men's books of the 90's (&quot;Myth of Male Power&quot; and &quot;A Man's World&quot; being the other two).<br />The Kirkus review above is pretty much right on the money with its description of the book.  I'd add that there's a quite interesting chapter on images of masculinity in the media (John Wayne to Clint Eastwood to WWF), in which Thomas even works in some very interesting ideas on the real meaning cross-dressing.  The book is that wide-ranging and philosophical at times -- the powerful insights snuck up on me all the way through the book.  I really liked Thomas's writing style: very understated, and all the more convincing because of that.<br />I might also add that even though Thomas is a Brit, the book is balanced fairly evenly between this side of the Atlantic and the other.  So other American readers shouldn't fear irrelevancy.<br />This is a gem of a book.  Highly recommended for those interested in the topic.	2001-07-04
US	50609084	R1OY9IO5LW1T4V	0595096182	988008982	Marriage & How to Avoid It: The Truly Cynical Guide	Books	1	6	11	N	N	Rather Sucky!	This book is a big disappointment.<br />First, the actual text hardly runs to 90 pages (so maybe I should say it's a little disappointment...), even though the author attempts to cover some three dozen sub-topics.  Needless to say, a couple of pages per topic (some are only one sentence) doesn't provide for much depth, even though I think even this much was beyond the author's knowledge and ability.<br />Second, the book is written largely in the second personal singular, meaning it's full of you's (and we's); this quickly got annoying because the author was clearly making blatantly false and undemonstrated assumptions left and right about moi, which instantly turned me off the way a too-slick salesperson does using language this way in an attempt to build some sort of rapport or intimacy.  This also convinced me within a few pages that the Blews doesn't know his subject and/or his intended audience very well and made even the 90 pages tedious reading.<br />Third, the book isn't about marriage and how to avoid it, as the title implies.  I didn't know how else to feel but cheated when, on page 58, I'm finally informed &quot;You know it isn't until this point in the book that I realise how I haven't actually told you at any point *how* to avoid M[arriage], I have been chatting away...&quot;  What he's actually been doing all this time is developing the questionable thesis that males are brainwashed by their families and upbringing into thinking they want marriage like nothing else in the world.  Not only doesn't he present any evidence to support this notion, but it seems to me to fly in the face of all the evidence that it's *women* who want marriage and committment above all else and literally have to drag men who are committment-phobic kicking and screaming to the alter (or trick them by, say, getting or pretending to be prego).  But you won't hear anything about that angle on things.  The book bends over backward to be female-friendly.<br />As another example, Blews is for some reason under the bizarre impression that &quot;marriage provides a man with a young, keen, loving mother, maid, and cook.&quot;  Maybe back when &quot;Father Knows Best&quot; when at the top of the ratings.  Today, women are proud about not even knowing how to boil water.  There were a couple of other unbelievable (and unjustified) statements which made Blews come across as rather naive and out of his league.  Out of the mouths of babes, wisdom doesn't neccesarily flow.<br />Fourth, the title promises a &quot;truly cynical guide&quot;, but this book has to rate about 1 or a 2 on a scale of 10 in terms of cynicism.  Even though the tone tries to be amusing (even sardonic) at times, I didn't chuckle once or feel any tingle of insight.  If you want cynicism in spades, go for Matthew Fitzgerald's less expensive &quot;Sex-Ploytation&quot;.<br />Fifth, the book misses virtually all the important truths in this area, namely that &quot;marriage these days confers no rights on the man&quot; (Daniel Amneus) -- only on the woman, and that that is the best message to drill into men if you want to instruct them to avoid potential disaster.  Blews seems to be arguing for cohabitation instead of marriage, like it's something better, but the false idea that if you then have a kid that the man gets equal time w/Mom afterwards is a dangerous one to be putting out there.<br />I could go on, but I'd rather have my $$'s back.  Avoid at all costs.	2001-06-23
US	50609084	R2OOYVEQ9ASOJR	0672315904	290969895	Dan Appleman's Visual Basic Programmer's Guide to the Win32 API	Books	3	2	2	N	N	This is a title	Disclaimer: our public library only had the edition for VB4 (1996, I think), and the CD was mostly unreadable so I couldn't get to many of the examples.<br />I've programmed in more than half a dozen languages on at least as many machines and I didn't think this book was as great as everyone here is making it sound.  Maybe the newer edition is a lot better.  I thought the author couldn't decide whether he wanted to give an exposition on how Windows works or on what his example programs were all about, or provide a thorough reference on API function calls.  The compromise approach -- a little of both -- didn't seem very satisfactory.<br />The pages of code were both mind-numbing and needless.  The chapter on memory explained how to get memory, but had nothing on what to do with it once you got it!  The function reference sections, which could have been the basis for a really excellent book, were too short and cryptic.  I found his writing style confusing in spots and there were numerous digressions before he actually got to the topic of the section heading.  Maybe this is the best book on this subject out there (as some seem to think), but it only rated about a 6 out of 10 on an absolute scale for programming books and seemed to need a serious re-writing to excise the needless repetition (and re-repetition).  There were several topics I wanted info on which were nowhere to be found.  A 1200 page book should be better IMO.  Perhaps beginning API programmers will get a lot out of it.  3 1/2 stars.	2001-06-05
US	50609084	R3HCQZ4IBKFPMJ	1565926315	331307540	Win32 API Programming with Visual Basic	Books	3	9	17	N	N	Not another great book from O'Reilly...	First, this seems like mostly a C book, not a VB book as the title implies.  Sure, the C structures and function call variables are usually provided w/translations (but not always!).  And there is a whole chapter on VB strings.  But I got the impression the author doesn't know a ton about VB and why a VB programmer might want/need to concern himself with the API function calls.  This didn't phase me a ton because I know C, but I thought a lot of the text wasn't much about VB at all.<br />First-and-a-half, the author is running Windows NT, so if you're like me and on Win 95/98 you may at times feel like you're being left out.  He does go to some lengths to compare and point out the differences between the two OS's, but (again) I felt like he was a C/NT programmer rather than a VB/9x programmer.<br />Second, even though the intro says its for both VB5 and VB6, I use the former and couldn't get the crucial examples on the CD to run without first hunting down and finding the needed DLL's on the I-Net one-by-one.  This was a tedious process because after a program would clear past one error message on startup it'd hit the next one.  And so on.  This was a huge hassle.  It probably didn't help that the one bad spot on my CD was the dll.readme file (maybe all this was pointed out in there) -- I probably should have taken the book back, but then I would have had to wait for them to order another one and for it to come in, go back a third time to get it, etc...<br />Third, the book is not any sort of complete reference to the API functions.  Some of the chapters only mention a couple of the functions relevant to the topic, or at least give you the feeling there's more out there that you might want to know about.  The functions that are mentioned sometimes only have one or two of their parameters explained (as if the others don't matter).  So if you're looking for an API reference book, this probably isn't it.<br />At least most of the typos in the book can be found at O'Reilly's website, though a careful reader can find a couple that haven't been flagged.<br />I expected a better book.  At least the writing is clear.	2001-06-05
US	50609084	R120PKLKJ7FKUR	0374955719	202502753	In Defense of Women	Books	5	48	51	N	N	Could almost have been written yesterday...	Reading this book made me wonder &quot;where are the men of today who are writing like this on these topics?&quot; -- things like soul mates, monogamy/polygamy, affairs, prostitution, romance novels, Darwin's theory of sexual selection, the double standard, the &quot;Madonna/whore complex&quot; (not called that then), sexual harassment, employment discrimination, abolishing marriage, and declining marriage and birth rates all make an appearance in the book.  And much of it retains its essential truth.  The more things change...<br />It's especially interesting to see where HLM was right and where he turned out to be wrong.  For instance: the book was written just before men gave women the vote (i.e., during World War I, when Mencken was in his mid-to-upper thirties and still a bachelor); Mencken thought women voting would cure politics of rampant corruption -- because women wouldn't allow such shenanigans.  This is not to say that he had any kind things to say about the suffragettes. He didn't, and some of what he wrote was outrageously funny. One can extrapolate in a straight line to some of today's feminists.<br />His basic thesis -- which may or may not have been meant to be taken seriously -- is that women are more intelligent than men, the proof being the ease with which they typically defeat men in the war between the sexes:<br />&quot;I am convinced that the average woman, whatever her deficiencies, is greatly superior to the average man. The very ease with which she defies and swindles him in several capital situations of life is the clearest of proofs of her general superiority. She did not obtain her present high immunities as a gift from the gods, but only after a long and often bitter fight, and in that fight she exhibited forensic and tactical talents of a truly admirable order. There was no weakness of man that she did not penetrate and take advantage of. There was no trick that she did not put to effective use. There was no device so bold and inordinate that it daunted her.&quot;<br />It would be fifty years before Esther Vilar's &quot;The Manipulated Man&quot; continued with many of the same themes.  But Mencken was quite prescient in the section on women's martyrdom, which today we'd call their claim to victimhood or being &quot;oppressed&quot;.  I could go on at some length about how close his description of marriage is to what prevails today (based on reports which come to my attention), but I'll spare you.<br />I'm sorry I waited so long to get around to this book, as it's truly a classic written by a great mind -- a highly recommended trip above the stratosphere for all men and, especially, bachelors.	2001-05-15
US	50609084	R1I1OGKAKVN4T6	1882342046	988821207	Surviving the Feminization of America: How to Keep Women from Ruining Your Life	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Look for the new revised edition under a different title	The reason you need to read this book is best told via the story of what happened when I went to my local Big Chain Book Retailer to get a copy after hearing of it.  They have an entire section of books called Gender Studies or Women's Studies or some such thing (not to mention all the dieting and self-help books which men never buy).  These are all basically &quot;feminist studies&quot; books, which this book also qualifies as.  But it wasn't there.  Nor were the nice women working the computers behind the counter able to even locate it in their massive database.  It's on a very obscure label.  Click #1 !  (How come you never hear men say &quot;It's a Man's World?&quot;...)  So I went into fallback mode, meaning I went to the long-standing independent bookstore downtown where the really hip people will only buy their boooks.  Anyway, they were able to find it and order it, but I still remember the smirk on the intelligent looking cashierette's face as she handed it too me when I went in to pick it up... Click #2 !  (Doesn't everyone *know* that it's women who have a difficult time of it?)<br />Ok, so this maybe isn't the very best first book to read if one is interested in the men's movement.  As the author tells us in the intro, it's jazz, it's improvisational, it's unabashed and from the heart.  So it wanders around a bit.  Occasionally it's off the wall -- no, it's practically out of the universe.  It's experimental.  And I don't have a spiritual bone in my body, so those parts often left me rolling my eyes.  But there's a ton of stuff in here which needs to be said, and written and read.  Truths as only someone like zUBATY can tell.  And you know he's giving you his all, and what more can you ask from an author?	2001-05-15
US	50609084	R1C60IZVF1N231	0684179172	205232134	Endless Rapture: Rape, Romance, and the Female Imagination	Books	5	22	26	N	N	Try to find a copy...	It's been several years since I read this slim volume (for a second time), but it's one of those which I find myself looking for in bibliographies in order to rate an author's expertise and depth of research.  Surprisingly, and disappointingly, it seems to have been all but forgotten.  This is a shame because it's quite a fine book and well worth the attention of anyone interested in these difficult topics.<br />I remember it as being almost in the form of an extended, musing essay, full of interesting surprises and insights -- the kind of book which makes you think about things differently than you did before without really being able to put words to it.  Whenever I think of the book, I wonder why apparently nothing more was ever written by the author.	2001-05-15
US	50609084	R3MZQAUZMGBCOB	0312144121	610699312	Sex Appeal: The Art and Science of Sexual Attraction	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Fun and interesting	Ok, so it's not a work of heavy scholarship (maybe see David Buss for that) or entirely a how-to-be-successful-at-love/sex/romance book -- Cabot's website is indeed pretty good for that, not that there are none of those helpful and practical pointers here.  This is the kind of book you could give to your kid sister.  And it glows with style (hint, hint...).  I certainly think it's worth more than the measley two stars the other two reviewers gave.<br />The authors have surveyed the entire field of research in this extensive area and put together almost all the interesting little tidbits and theories into an enjoyable and easy-to-read format.  Even someone who thinks they're not a beginner will be sure to learn some cool things here which will make them sound like an expert at their next social gathering.  I really liked the tone of the book and its often layed-back, bemused approach to a topic which can often lead to furrowed brows and a grim outlook on things.  You got interested in sex research because you thought it would be fun, didn't you?  This book delivers.  4 1/2 stars.	2001-05-15
US	50609084	R2WNSYT6PK6ZZO	0761503099	879012104	If It's Love You Want, Why Settle for (Just) Sex?: How to Avoid Dead-End Relationships and Find Love That Lasts	Books	1	5	9	N	N	The &quot;Old&quot; Sex: Make Him Earn It	And they say it's *men* who haven't changed...<br />The blurb on the inside back cover describes the author as being someone who &quot;teaches seminars on love, sex, and relationships&quot;. In actuality she's a high-ranking spokesperson for the Female Mafia, the cartel which keeps the supply of sex as low as possible so the price women get is as high as possible.  This is exemplified with section titles such as &quot;How to Say No to Kissing and Other Forms of Affection&quot;.  Of course you're supposed to be playful and delightful at the same time.  In other words, a manipulative tease.  Use sex as a power tool.  Or, rather, the withholding of it.<br />What's the point of all this holding out and playing hard to get? Love, if you can believe the first chapter.  But there's very little in here about that because the real have-it-all fantasy is for commitment &amp; security, aka marriage.  This is somewhat understandable since marriage no longer imposes any obligations or responsibilities on the woman, only on the man; i.e., marriage confers no rights on men.  But Langford is not concerned with such issues.  Her view of men is limited to that of relationship object.  As a result, her thinking is basically that of a whore: a proper woman deserves something in addition to sex (eg., at least a phone call).  That's the real double standard here.  It's even worse than her confusion over whether sex is everything (as in &quot;giving all of myself to you&quot;) or nothing (as in the title's &quot;just sex&quot;).<br />Even if most men don't articulate it, most are aware at some level of the sexual shakedown in which there's little notion of reciprocity, in which everything is one-way on his part, and where a shared activity is defined as her giving more than him.  This is just the standard female mindf***.  So Langford is wrong when she glowingly promises &quot;you will have more men of the caliber you're looking for... pursuing you more than ever before.&quot;  Such men are wisely laying low until this tried-and-failed female-run breeding experiment blows over.  They have little to gain and too much to lose.  And they have better things to do with their time than deal with silly rules such as &quot;don't call him&quot; (remain as passive as Sleeping Beauty) and &quot;keep him guessing&quot; (if he's dumb enough not to catch on, then he qualifies).<br />Only the very rare woman of truly exceptional character and very high mate value can successfully pull off the schtick being advised in this book.  The rest will be left even worse off: too many women in this country already have too high a level of expectation, have an almost outrageous sense of entitlement with regard to men, and are way too arrogant as it is.  So the result of reading this book will be to increase all that and further undermine relationships, leaving women starving emotionally even more than they already are.  The message of women as extremely vulnerable and fragile just doesn't wash anymore.  The book advocates a surefire losing strategy which deserves to be put in wayback machine and launched to c1950.  It should have been out of print before it was published.	2001-05-06
US	50609084	R18FQBHC2I5D31	0802135870	529219733	Storming Heaven: LSD and the American Dream	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A very thorough and valuable history of the early years	This investigative tour de force covers in great detail the years from 1943 (and a little before) up through the LSD hysteria circa 1965-7.  I'm marking it down a star because of its inexplicable lack of an index, which greatly reduces its value as a research reference -- which it surely deserves to be.  There are so many biographies trying to be told simultaneously here that it sometimes got a bit confusing.  It also tends to go off on occasional tangents, digressing at what to me seemed like too great a length regarding some of the characters of the story which (again) to me seemed more like minor ones not worth the many background pages devoted to them.  But those are rather small quibbles really.<br />Stevens is pretty good at keeping central issues front and center as events unfold: eg, how the psychological models evolved over time, and the socio-political question of whether the power of this amazing molecule was for the masses or just for the few  -- both of which became more or less moot as events over-ran things.<br />I liked &quot;Acid Dreams&quot; a microgram or two more than this book, probably because it emphasizes cultural rather than personal history more, but still had a difficult time putting &quot;Storming Heaven&quot; down for very long.  It's extremely information-rich and well-written -- it's rather dispassionately objective while still being interesting.  It would probably only disappoint those looking for simple answers.	2001-05-06
US	50609084	R2XFOXNYS141UW	0809229781	425907810	Why Men Marry: 150 Guys Reveal What Prompted Them to Pop the Question	Books	2	7	7	N	N	Nothing in here on the Chump Factor...	A wedding is an orgy of female narcissism, as Matthew Fitzgerald puts it, so naturally most women will be intensely interested in lining up some relationship object to play the appropriate part in her little psychodrama, especially now that marriage confers no rights on men and is virtually a risk-free endeavor for the female.<br />Many, especially many men, will not be aware that bridal magazines (and books and catalogs) constitute a rich source of fantasy material for women.  Manuevering a man into making a committment is the Holy Grail of a woman's life.  Modern Bride may be the epitome of this genre.  It's about as &quot;modern&quot; as New Woman magazine.  Modern Bride is approximately as thick as a small city's phone book: the Mar-April 2001 issue runs over 700 glossy pages, almost all of it ads for fashion and cosmetics just like any other woman's magazine.  Thumbing through it, actual editorial content is rather difficult to find.<br />In spite of its paucity of articles, Russell Wild somehow managed to get a short piece in the magazine.  This led to such rave reviews (emphasizing that this is indeed a magazine read not only by those already engaged and planning for the Big Day...) that he was encouraged to write a little more and turn it into this book.  Needless to say, this is no sociological investigation but, rather, a shallow bit of fluff.  It reads just like the pabulum women eagerly lap up in their magazines, books, and TV shows.  In fact, you get the impression that it never donned on Mr. Wild that a man might read the book.  This is maybe just as well, as the level is about appropriate for a fifteen year-old.<br />There are only some three dozen pages of actual text by the author, with ten of these briefly explaining what a few experts think the reason for men marrying is.  Unfortunately, someone from a matchmaking service qualifies as an expert on a par with scholars and academics in this particular universe.  Rather interesting ideas, worth somereal ink, only get a paragraph or two.  Hardly satisfying.  The book ventures into advice &amp; self-help territory with grandma-was-right unmodern &quot;wisdom&quot; about cooking him up a good meal.  (!)  Just don't be surprised if he's then resentful some years down the line when you don't...<br />The remaining 140+ pages are the stories of the 150 guys who were interviewed.  At less than a page each, and with nothing which might even remotely challenge or offend the most sensitive female reader, these little ditties have a distinctly unreal, just-so quality about them.  Every anthropologist knows that the participants in cultural roles and rituals may not have the slightest idea of their own underlying motivations, and that people construct stories of rationalization for others to consume.  And don't men lie uncontrollably and all the time anyway when sex (a word nearly absent from the book) is concerned?  Why put much stock in what they say now?  So, as much as I like to see men have a voice in matters such as these, this raw &quot;data&quot; is of fairly low value.  Is it really news, with women being as passive as they are about taking initiatives, that 90% of the men say they were initially attracted by the woman's attractiveness?  Isn't this just what the advertisers want to hear?<br />The book concludes with &quot;don't hold your breath waiting for a logical explanation&quot;.  Ugh.  A simple question (why do men marry?) seems to demand a simple answer, but bailing out at the end is downright ridiculous.  Why even bother writing a book when you don't have a clue.  So don't waste your time or money on this book, unless perhaps you're female and just can't help it.	2001-04-26
US	50609084	R3OPWKKJM35WA9	052166148X	118050235	Cosmology: The Science of the Universe	Books	5	50	51	N	N	A serious but very accessible introduction to the field	Even though &quot;Cosmology&quot; is technically a textbook, it takes a rather different sort of approach from the usual such offering.  This book makes the subject come alive with excitement by employing a unique style.  Even though the book was designed for intro ivy-league students, there's more than enough here to challenge (and intrique) someone who's fully science/physics-literate.  The book emphasizes basic principles and intelligently avoids the various fads which seem to plague cosmology at any given time (inflation, dark matter, excessive veneration of the latest observations made with the newest &amp; sexiest technology, etc).  It makes clear the important distinction between astronomy and cosmology.<br />Harrison is both an expert in, and an aficionado of, the grand ideas about creation, so the hard science here is interspersed with relevant pieces of history, philosophy, and literature (i.e., the humanities) -- but not too much, rather just enough to give an appreciation for how great minds of all sorts have wrestled with these problems in one form or another for as long as we know.  And Harrison has a way of boiling down the difficult concepts to their essentials, making an opaque subject transparent.<br />Even though the scientific level is moderately high for a book aimed ostensibly at novices, there are no lengthy mathematical derivations or formulas of the sort that one might think would be necessary to convey, say, Einstein's general relativity or the intricacies of sub-atomic physics.  Often taking an order-of-magnitude and geometrical approach, the book avoids long confusing digressions into trivialities and summarizes many of its important points in excellent diagrams.  Harrison is great at bringing in just enough from some other branch of physics to help you grasp the topic at hand, so the development as you progress through the book is nearly perfect.  He's also excellent at conveying the important conundrums, uncertainties, and many pitfallsin the field.  The coverage is very balanced and complete, yet anything but shallow.<br />Even though I was a grad student in astrophysics at Berkeley, I didn't learn cosmology from Joseph Silk there.  Instead, I learned it after I left -- from this book (the 1st edition).  Harrison is that good at making what can be a perplexing subject both interesting and understandable.  I came away from it feeling I finally &quot;got&quot; cosmology, the grandest of all subjects.<br />The only better book for the less serious lay person or someone who finds scientific material difficult would be his &quot;Masks of the Universe&quot; -- unfortunately now out-of-print, but well worth tracking down.	2001-04-21
US	50609084	R16RUMD13XNG25	0802130623	359469126	Acid Dreams: The Complete Social History of LSD: The CIA, the Sixties, and Beyond	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Absolutely excellent!	...this is a must-read for anyone with an interest in thesixties, LSD, political movements, gummint/military shenanigans, andall the rest.  The rich story told -- actually there are severalintersecting threads -- is so unbelievably incredible you'll want toread the book at least twice.  No one could invent such a surreal taleand write it up as well as these two authors have.  This book shouldbe on every American's bookshelf!	2001-03-30
US	50609084	R2PTOGCHEAZ1LT	1573221244	953844455	Sex and Power	Books	2	16	40	N	N	Poor-mediocre moderate feminist pabulum	About half this book is a rambling rant about the lack of women on corporate boards, at the upper echelons of politics, and/or as CEO's of Fortune 500 companies.  Another quarter is about how younger women don't seem to be interested in carrying on the cause of feminism; and the other quarter is basically political name-dropping, gossip, and reminiscing.  But it's all mixed in in a somewhat chaotic manner which jumps back and forth among the various topics.<br />As far as the first topic goes: Estrich, like many (if not all) feminists, tends to think that men at the top of institutions rule like tyrants -- the way women in fact tend rule over their children.  By focusing all her attention on success-object men, she's really no different in her basic outlook from a Monica Lewinsky -- she just has different objectives and uses for men. Men without formal power are invisible to her.  And the vast amount of informal female power extant is barely at the edge of her radar screen.  In other words, this book is not about the real topic of sex and power, namely female sexual power.  Looking at all the men in business (and politics) and saying men have all the power is about as simple-minded as looking at all the slaves in the pre-Civil War South and saying blacks have all the cotton.<br />Estrich confuses the earning of money with its real power, which is in its spending -- which is female-dominated, and thus invisible to her.  It never occurs to her that the American woman, as powerful consumer-in-chief, is actually the boss of the male corporate CEO.  All those factories, strip-malls and shopping centers weren't built (often at the expense of male lives) so *men* could go shopping for fashion accessories and home furnishings.  &quot;Follow the money&quot;, as they say...<br />As far as her second topic is concerned, there's a fairly substantial body of decent work already out there on the feminist's recruiting problem.  Not only doesn't Estrich mention it, but she appearsto be unaware of its existence.  In other words, she hasn't done even a minimal amount of research and therefore doesn't have anything to say of interest on the topic.  This is fairly characteristic of the book's first topic also.<br />The war stories from her glory days may be of minor interest to hardcore CNN and C-SPAN types...<br />I give it one star above the minimum for its brief exposition on sexual harassment law and the reasonable person/woman concept, which isn't all that bad.  The author is a lawyer, after all.  But I don't think she fully grasps that this yet another arena in which women can't lose; only men can (and they can lose big), which is hardly equality.  I still think Warren Farrell's phrase &quot;if it works it's courtship, if it doesn't it's harassment&quot; sums the basic situation up best.<br />Estrich's opinions seem about fifteen years out of date, so this book is basically a waste of good trees.  She should have tried reading others' books before writing one of her own.  This ... book's existence (and the hype it got) alone testifies to the power women have in this country.	2001-03-28
US	50609084	R1LAB4R9RJ307M	088362222X	728422772	Principles of Color Reproduction	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A technical standby reference.	I can't believe this is only just now in its second edition -- my 20 year-old copy seemed like ancient wisdom at the time I got it...  Back then, scanners were new and very expensive technology, so the book focused on the theory applicable to photography-based techniques.  One needed to be well-versed in the science of photography (knowing physics helped) and human color vision to follow the book, but what it dealt with was great.  All relevant aspects of color reproduction systems (esp. halftone systems based in inks) were dealt with in some detail, so for the very technically inclined the book was a goldmine of solid thinking and information -- even if many of the literature references were even then several decades old.  Though the basic principles never change, I'll be interested to see whether the new edition has been sufficiently updated and revised to keep up with the revolution in the field the last two decades as things have moved over increasingly to electronic/digital ways of doing things.	2001-01-23
US	50609084	RSN24Z4XPUDS8	0684849569	185008673	The War Against Boys: How Misguided Feminism Is Harming Our Young Men	Books	4	21	33	N	N	Sorry, I can't think of a spiffy title right off...	This book says much of what needs to be said about our femaledominated socialization system (aka &quot;school&quot;, not to mentionhome and the mass media) and how it can negatively affect boys andyoung men.  I see some of the results everyday in the college studentsI teach: some of my intro physical science classes have a 3:1 or 4:1girl:boy sex ratio; many if not most of the boys lack confidence anddirection, seeming to be very unsure about what exactly is expected ofthem.  The girls are the exact opposite; for the most part they'vegotten the message that they're capable and valuable to society.Quite primitive societies pay careful attention to the initiation ofboys into manhood (none leave it to women), but we're failingmiserably on this basic task -- kind of like how we hardly know how torun an election any more.<br />While I basically agree with CHS's overallthesis regarding the anti-boy/anti-male/anti-masculinity forcesrampant in our culture at this time, I'm marking this book down onestar for a couple of reasons: 1) All the material on Carol Gilliganand her &quot;In A Different Voice&quot; schtick, and feminism ingeneral, while quite reasonable and plausible, seems like overkill andstarts to reek of a vendetta at some point; 2) I'm no moralist, so theend the book veers off in a direction other than what I would havewanted to see.  She might ultimately be right on her points here, andthe several pages on all-male schools are almost worth the price ofthe book all by itself, but I kept waiting for her to get back and doan investigation of, say, the high suicide rate among boys.  But itnever came.  I just would have done the book a bit differently. 3) Alittle bit of attention to the difference between the needs of pre-and post-pubescent males would have been nice.  4) Many others in themen's lib/rights area have also written on Sommers' topic and it mighthave been nice to see their ideas brought into the picture and perhapsblended in; as it is we're left with theimpression that the only wayto make progress is to battle nefarious feminist forces.  This ismaybe not a terrible idea, but most people (ie, teachers, parents,school administrators) are not as strident as CHS makes them out tobe.<br />These are not serious enough criticisms to recommend not readinga books which stands very well on its own and makes its points simplyand strongly.  The critique of Pollack's work (which I hadn't read buthad heard all about) was both surprising and enlightening to me: Isuppose it's a measure of how low we'd sunk that at some point anyattention to a topic which is crying out for it seems better than noneat all.  My fear is that this too will turn out to be a fad and thatwe'll be rediscovering the same things all over again a decade or twolater.  Perhaps CHS's book will have hit so high on the visibilityscale that the topic will be impossible to dismiss in the comingyears.  At any rate, reading the book made be grateful that I got myown boyhood in just under the wire before things went amuck.	2000-12-04
US	50609084	R2IEIKNY84BRJW	0819706922	80926857	From Courtship to Courtroom : What Divorce Law is Doing to Marriage	Books	5	30	30	N	Y	This is about the real double-standard.	The above professional review is pretty accurate on this one... Even though Abraham has UC/Berkeley and Harvard Law credentials, this is no abstract academic tome.  Rather, it's an easy-to-read and straight-forward description of what a typical divorce scenario is like in all its details.  Sprinkled in there's a bit of informative relevant history to explain how things got into the twisted state they're in, with men being distinctly second-class citizens in the family.  Not only does marriage confer no rights on men, in divorce they have negative rights (i.e., obligations and responsibilities) and are hardly better off than slaves, with the state and the ex being the slave-owner.<br />Abraham is especially good at debunking the commonly held and naive belief among men that it's those *other* guys who are the jerks and who therefore get screwed by their ex's and the law in divorce -- i.e., that the law is fair and that men get about what they deserve.  Being male is all it takes, and no amount of &quot;good works&quot; or having been a good husband/father can undo the inherent anti-male sexism in the current system.  While there's virtually nothing in the book on courtship, and there are a couple of minor typos, this book should be required reading for all high school boys (and would-be second wives, too).  The material on pre-nuptial agreements is a must for all men considering a commitment with a woman, and the six changes in the law Abraham proposes are right on the money and easy to understand.  4 1/2 - 5 stars.	2000-10-24
US	50609084	R2ZVV91IVXKH5F	0385479425	943694891	Survival of the Prettiest: The Science of Beauty	Books	4	6	9	N	Y	A book which will probably survive OK...	This is a pretty decent book but not extraordinary.  It brings together many of the current observations relating to beauty (especially the female variety) but is not overly scientific -- i.e., it doesn't get bogged down in technicalities or jargon.  Similarly, it relies on a Darwinian framework for interpretation but is not overly adamant about ev-psych's ability to explain everything about human behavior.  I especially liked the first chapter, which reads more like an essay on beauty past and present than an intro to a science book.<br />If there was any complaint, it was that the author wasn't daring enough and doesn't introduce any really breathtakingly new ideas.  I got the impression she was mainly reporting on others' research, and I think Etcoff missed (in the next-to-last chapter) the interesting fact that in the last decade (or so) fashion seems to have flowed from the lower classes upwards, whereas throughout the rest of history it's been the other way, which is sort of what she presumes to still be the case.  This doesn't detract seriously from the earlier material, which showed a touch more originality of approach.  An interesting topic pretty well-covered, even if not ground-breaking in any way.	2000-10-24
US	50609084	R2SU7GW1C3OCMY	0312186797	152949452	What Men Don't Want Women To Know: The Secrets, The Lies, The Unspoken Truth	Books	1	20	26	N	N	What a total crock!!	&quot;Smith&quot; &amp; &quot;Doe&quot; tell women exactly what scum men are, which women seem to want to hear a lot these last couple of decades, so nauturally the material will appear.  It already has on TV, in greeting cards, and just about everywhere else you look.  Ho, hum, what else is new?<br />While they may be writing from personal experience, the old bridge-players' adage &quot;you never get better than the people you play with&quot; applies abundantly.  I certainly don't recognize myself or anyone I've ever known in their relentless caricaturing of men.  Maybe these guys are total jerks and not afraid to try to cash in by saying so -- but then, by definition, as jerks they're compulsive liars and shouldn't be trusted.<br />Women who want to feel angry about men or are hardcore misandrists for some reason will slurp this junk up and love it, but it's message can only poison relationships, create distrust, and make things worse for both men and women.  Some people do want to believe the worst, but rather than dump on men, women would be better off pondering why they're *choosing* jerks rather than actively seeking out the many genuinely good men out there.  Believe what this book says about men at your own risk.  This book is probably #1 on my list of books which should be burned and/or banned because of its viciousness.  It is so full of untruths, and a comparable book about women would never find it's way into print, which (come to think of it) is worth thinking about.  The material in this book isn't.	2000-10-24
US	50609084	R1G02BMVX8XN5H	042511094X	833724492	Why Men Are the Way They Are	Books	5	24	28	N	N	Farrell's 2nd best book to date.	I first read this book a dozen years ago (at about age 30), have a thoroughly marked-up and re-read copy, and can say that it articulated so many obvious truths about male-female dynamics which weren't part of the general cultural discussion then (or now) that it was the sort of total revelation that other reviewers write about here much more eloquently than I can.  I had previously believed that I was light-years away from being the typical male (choose your term: jerk, loser, etc.), but gained valuable insights from the book into how the typical female regards men and why my inner qualities were irrelevant or seemed to work opposite to the way I'd expected based on listening to what women say -- which solved a major puzzle.  The strength of this book is that it's based on observations of everday behavior and what people do, rather than what they say.<br />While many of the examples (Michael Jackson, the movie Flashdance, etc.) are a bit dated at this point, Farrell's observations were years ahead of even the radical evolutionary psychologists in coming around to the view that men, and male behavior generally, are basically the result of a breeding experiment run by women, not men.  This is a liberating data-point for men, who have been alternately shamed, chided, and pitied by women unrelentingly for about two decades now.<br />While much of the men's movement has progressed to more of a focus on political issues (divorce and child custody in particular), and Farrell's subsequent &quot;The Myth of Male Power&quot; is a stronger refutation of the widespread allegations of rampant male privilege (read it next), &quot;Why Men Are The Way They Are&quot; is still about the best book written from a male-friendly perspective on courtship and basic relationship issues, exploding many myths about men and women, which can only be a good thing.	2000-10-24
US	50609084	R3M65QQJ9SBV59	0471148792	4071723	Trading Systems and Methods (Wiley Trading)	Books	4	23	25	N	N	One of the better books in the WTA series.	This is not so much an encyclopedia as it is a fairly complete compendium of various trading tools and strategies.  Almost all such research focuses on the futures markets; the closest these get to the stock market is the S&amp;P 500 index.  This is true of technical analysis in general, so if you're interested in the stock market you will generally have to extrapolate.<br />Kaufman is a pretty able and knowledgeable reporter on the research results of others, but I have to say that in places the transcriptions are confusing, unclear and ambiguous.  Even though the book is nearly 700 pages long, some of the coverage is too sparse -- while in other areas it seems too wordy.  This 3rd edition could benefit from a start-to-finish re-organization/re-write, as some ideas are explained multiple times in various places and other ideas which are introduced early and deemed important are then ignored throughout the rest of the book.  I'm thinking primarily of the basics of statistics and tests for significance; much of what might work at times is superfluous.  My impression is that while Kaufman is very experienced in the markets and with trading systems in general, that he's a dilettante so far as really rigorous mathematics is concerned.  Pick and choose among the many clever ideas here carefully.  3 1/2 stars.	2000-10-14
US	50609084	R1DNQRF4KM0M4K	0070482462	338014143	What Works on Wall Street: A Guide to the Best-Performing Investment Strategies of All Time	Books	2	152	208	N	N	What doesn't work on Wall St.	This book is just another example of why non-statisticians shouldn't write books on statistical subjects.  It's best-selling status confirms P.T.Barnum's famous phrase.<br />What the author does is use year-end prices covering 45 years to &quot;prove&quot; all sorts of useless things about various simple strategies centering around value investing.  Forty-five data points, whether it be daily data or yearly data, is not enough (by more than at least a factor of ten!) to reach any significant conclusion about anything such as the financial markets, where any signal present is swamped by noise.  But O'Shaughnessy is quite tickled that he's proven all the experts wrong with his measly sample.<br />What's even worse is that the spuriousness of his &quot;profound&quot; results is right there staring him in his face: he frequently comes up with numbers like 14.59%, with a standard deviation of 23.24% -- not realizing that this means the real answer is likely anywhere between -8.65% and +37.83%; in other words, it's consistent with a 0% return for that particular strategy.  To compound the folly, O'Shaughnessy then goes on to continually draw conclusions based on differences of a few percent or less (a small fraction of the standard deviation) between competing strategies, not realizing that this is utterly meaningless.<br />On top of these fatal flaws, O'Shaughnessy also commits the most common sin of model testing: he fails to forward-test his strategy on data which the model hasn't yet seen.  This just about guarantees that future results will disappoint, as indeed has been the case the last several years with the mutual funds which he launched based on the ideas in this book after its first edition.<br />I give it 1 1/2 - 2 stars because even a crummy strategy is better than none at all.	2000-10-03
US	50609084	R1BC9O03AD44TI	087477988X	567506661	Women Can't Hear What Men Don't Say: Destroying Myths, Creating Love	Books	5	24	29	N	N	Vintage Warren Farrell...	I don't have much to add to what the other positive reviewers here have written...<br />I was initially a little concerned by the first few (short) chapters that W.F. was attempting to be a &quot;feelings hero&quot;, but have since learned that the inclusion of some amount of relationship advice was the price which had to be paid to make the rest of the book possible.  While this fact is not mentioned in the text, much of the rest of the material in the book is exactly about this sort of thing: men having to pander to female/feminist sensibilities.  And somehow we think *men* have all the power, which is what both this book and Farrell's previous book (&quot;The Myth of Male Power&quot;) are about.  I give a slight nod to the earlier book as being the better of the two, though many of the same ideas are reiterated in this one.  The only thing that could have made the book better would have been a coherent plan for how men can achieve equality with women.<br />I understand Warren is working on two more books (one on fathers and sons), so perhaps we won't have to wait the better part of a decade next time like we did for this book.  Farrell is one of the most astute and accessible observers of this area of contemporary western culture around and the best general antidote to the worst aspects of the widespread (and mostly brain-dead) feminist ideology of the last 25 years.	2000-10-02
US	50609084	R203HQ6UY1XOC2	0471297224	970900057	Long-Term Secrets to Short-Term Trading	Books	2	90	114	N	N	Might as well flip a coin...	This book is an excellent example of why non-statisticians should be  prohibited from writing books on statistical subjects.<br />With some computer  program and a bunch of historical data on the futures markets, Williams is  able to find dozens upon dozen of trading systems which *would have*  produced spectacular results if they had been followed.  A fool will no  doubt believe that this is the real deal, but the law of averages  guarantees that future results applying the same rules to the same markets  will produce equally spectacular losses.  Markets change.  Duh.<br />More  importantly, Williams breaks every law in the book regarding the design and  testing of trading systems.  He massively overfits his data to &quot;profit  spikes&quot; and doesn't bother to forward-test any of his systems on data  which they haven't yet seen.  These alone are fatal flaws and guarantee the  invalidity of the systems.  A little knowledge is a dangerous thing...   Even worse, the concept of statistical significance seems to be beyond Mr.  Williams, who is even proud of his lack of mathematical ability.  If enough  systems are tested with enough data, one is bound to turn up cases where  80% or 90% of the trades would have been winners.<br />If all that wasn't a  big enough disaster, this book is littered with typos and inconsistencies  -- places where one thing is said in one paragraph and then another thing  is said in another, or appears to be the actual case in a related diagram.   This makes the actual rules being profferrd difficult to discern at times.   These flaws are simply inexcusable in a book costing this much and  pretending to be of a professional caliber.  It's also aggravating that the  technical terms (about two dozen of them) in the computer printouts with  which the results of the numerous models are presented are never adequately  explained.  And Williams is inconsistent in his rules: at one point in the  text he's advocating following the trend, at anotherpoint trading against  the trend is the way to riches.  On top of all that, one has to endure  endless silly platitudes and the recounting of numerous trading war  stories.  Ugh.  I couldn't get through it fast enough.<br />Given thousands of  traders in the markets, it's a statistical certainty that a handful will be  outrageously successful.  That they think it was because of something they  did, and then go and write basically worthless books about it, is little  more than hubris.  If Williams has done anything right which is  quantifiable, it's my guess that it's the fact that he's used stops to  prevent taking the big loss.  This is hardly news.  Save your money and  hope that maybe the local library was dumb enough to buy this book.	2000-09-18
US	50609084	RH09G2V805LO0	0060172061	836779465	A Man's World: How Real Is Male Privilege - And How High Is Its Price?	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Sorry to see it's out of print...	This was easily one of the best general books written in the 90's on the plight of men in post-patriarchal America.<br />Cose is one of the country's top journalists, though he is more well known for his coverage of  race-related issues.  In this book, he applies his skills to presenting  men's perspective(s) and tries to explain why, when they're allegedly  masters of the universe, so many are unhappy and complaining.  Just about  everything of substance, from beat-dead-dads to the epidemic of male  suicide to men's frustration with female hypocrisy in the dating/mating  area, is touched on.  Some of the most outspoken in the men's movement are  given a significant voice for a change.  Yet the story is well enough told  that someone new to these issues, while certainly receiving a jolt, would  not be turned off or intimidated.  And the chapter on the black male  experience is unique in the genre, so far as I know.<br />If I have any thing  to say on the downside, it's that the book sacrifices some depth for  breadth.  And it's perhaps not radical enough for my tastes, but that's a  personal bias.  The views of a few important authors are over-looked, again  IMO, and the book is more about reportage than it is about activism  directed towards change.  Still, getting the word out is important.<br />Try  to find a copy of this excellent book and read it!	2000-07-04
US	50609084	R21LV8BERNKTZT	0684850818	331079377	The Dangerous Passion: Why Jealousy Is as Necessary as Love and Sex	Books	5	18	19	N	Y	Very original and interesting take on an old topic.	I liked this book much more than Buss's earlier &quot;Evolution of Desire&quot;.  He seems to have matured immensely as both a thinker and a writer, so this book has many more insights into behavior in intimate human  relationships.<br />The basic thesis here is that rather than being  pathological, such things as jealousy and concern about a mate's fidelity  (and other items we'd wish didn't exist) are evolved behaviors which gave  our ancestor's a reproductive advantage.  These things are especially  important to males, who have no certainty of paternity.  By flipping the  view around from sickness and disdain to a response to reproductive risks,  many things which once seemed to make no sense all of sudden become clear  and understandable, even reasonable to some extent.  Of course this doesn't  make Buss an apologist for bad behavior since his take is that certain  types of relationship problems can't be solved without grasping their  underlying motivation.  And Buss does all this with writing which is both  easily accessible and illuminating of the depths of psychology.<br />As a  (physical) scientist I have no problem taking ev-psych as a working model  of reality rather than The Truth.  Since I understand it's just a way of  looking at things, I don't have the trouble with it that some do.  In that  sense, this book is some of the best ev-psych, combining science with  obvious personal insight and a plausible amount of extrapolation.  It deals  expertly with topics which are difficult to write about from a fresh  perspective.	2000-06-02
US	50609084	R33FSMMN8ANTQS	0961086467	406692828	The Case for Father Custody	Books	4	24	28	N	Y	I Can't Believe I Read the Whole Thing!	This is a book feminist types certainly won't get!  Daniel Amneus may be the principle defender of the recently much-maligned patriarchy, which has given us all the benefits of civilization: much longer lifespans due to decent food supplies and public health, generally affluent and peaceful  societies, and such accomplishments of which the I-Net is only one of many  if you step back and think about it a second.<br />In this book Amneus's  central thesis is that all this is only possible if women allow men to  participate equally in reproduction and have stable two-parent families, a  system which benefits men, women, and children and has been breaking down  over the last 30-35 years, with often catastrophic results.  The way women  do this is by accepting sexual law and order (monogamy and chastity  generally), which gives men paternity certainty and motivates them to  provide and produce all the wonderful benefits of civilization.  In the  presence of a liberalized female sexuality, things revert back to basic  Stone Age and mammalian forms, with the males specializing in predatory and  destructive behavior rather than productive and protective behavior -- the  matriarchal pattern of the ghetto and the indian reservation.  Because many  women resist sexual control (but still want the benefits) it's necessary to  bind them to males and families by making men the heads of families and  doing away with the century-long tried-and-failed experiment in mother  custody.<br />Many books start out with an introduction and ease into their  subject, but Amneus launches dirctly into the diatribe from the first page  and hammers away at the same themes over and over.  Almost all of these  would be familiar to anyone who's read Garbage Generation ................... because the male role in reproduction is marginal, the social  role of fatherhood has to be as central as the female role is biologically  if men are to be equal to women; the feminist / sexual / divorce revolutionhas only succeeded in reinforcing traditional sex roles, with women even  more burdened by parenting duties and men stuck in involuntary breadwinning  for ex-wives (from which they receive no reciprocal benefits) and for  children which they have little ability to influence the socialization of  -- a modern form of enslavement made possible by mom's taking them hostage  with the court's assistance, not to mention a system requiring multiple  state run damage-control backup systems for functions which the family  formerly performed.<br />At times Amneus merely sounds like someone who's  ticked off and grumpy for having missed the sexual revolution, but much of  what he's saying makes a ton of sense.  Even though we're constantly told  about how patriarchal everything is, much of the reasoning in this book  will be of the brain-wrenching variety.  Here is a perspective on things  which is both comprehensive and radically different.  While the knee-jerk  backlash reaction of many will no doubt be to hurl epithets (such as the  all-purpose &quot;misogynist&quot;), Amneus probably reserves his worst  criticisms for unthinking judges and politicians who think it's somehow  chivalrous to force men to subsidize the destruction of their  families.<br />This is a hard book to read.  Fortunately, one can get 90% of  it from just reading the first several dozen pages.  It's perhaps  unfortunate that the tone is so strident (and redundant), since there are  many valuable ideas here for correcting (at little cost) many of our  seemingly insolvable social problems which trace their roots back to  families and how kids are raised.  Apply salt liberally to offending  passages -- there's little likelihood that these ideas will catch on and be  realized anytime soon, even if it's nice to dream.	2000-05-30
US	50609084	R1GIQFOSVIVZCU	0375700536	133932423	Last Night in Paradise: Sex and Morals at the Century's End	Books	4	9	12	N	N	A good read...	It's been about two years since I read this, but I remember the book as being dark, brooding, meandering and questioning rather than preachy.  Rophie should be admired for not pretending to have all the answers on this  difficult and complicated topic.<br />I read the book in one sitting, the  writing was that good.  I know it's hard to find a positive review of this  book on the I-Net, but I liked it a lot even if I'm left now with an  impression rather than specific info gleaned.  I'll definitely read her  next book because even if I disagree with her on some points I think she's  an important writer worth listening to.	2000-05-29
US	50609084	R2SZ3UPJT2U5WF	0465044042	658114205	Manias, Panics, And Crashes: A History Of Financial Crises, Revised Edition	Books	4	28	29	N	N	Sorry amazon, I read the library's copy...	I'm puzzled by some of the negative comments about this book here, as I'm neither an economist nor a historian and I found the book quite accessible and interesting.  The fairly predictable sequence of events leading to  crashes, which have been played out many times in the past, is the book's  central theme.  Some of the story-telling could even be described as  fascinating at times, though my knowledge of the subject was pretty much  limited to what one learns of the famed `29 crash in high school american  history.<br />Anyway, the critics here are not entirely wrong, though I think  they're being a bit nit-picky.  I don't think the widely-read and educated  lay-person should be scared off.  I liked the book, learned something  significant from it, was mildly entertained and impressed by the author's  plethora of knowledge, and occasionally recommend it to those with an  interest in financial markets, especially their so-called irrational side.	2000-05-05
US	50609084	R1DYYTPX2LV4NG	0425143813	494192907	Myth of Male Power	Books	5	27	34	N	N	The single best &quot;men's lib&quot; book!	If Farrell is (as he's been described) the Betty Friedan of the men's movement, this is his equivalent of the The Feminine Mystique.  However, it's much better researched and far less polemical.<br />From on-the-job deaths, to violent crime, to suicide, to lower concern about their health  and the subsequent lower life expectancy, the air-tight conclusion that  it's MEN who are the disposable sex and the second-class citizens makes  about 99% of feminist theory about what men do to women look like a huge  projection of what women in actuality are doing to men.  Even if the  non-critical material on, say, Anita Hill is starting to look a bit dated,  no one will come away from reading this book without a vastly changed  outlook on society and the behaviors and motivations of the people around  them.  If you haven't read it, you don't know what the men's movement is  about.	2000-05-01
US	50609084	RTP1LHOXTH07G	0465021433	883464783	The Evolution Of Desire: Strategies Of Human Mating	Books	4	33	35	N	N	A pretty good book: sex for humans	Like a reviewer below me says, this book mostly lends scientific credence to what everyone already knows: men and women generally pursue different reproductive strategies.  Under evolutionary theory, this is because the  two sexes have different reproductive biologies and roles.  The many  ramifications and implications are then explored.<br />This is a science book  which builds the data platform for rather conventional (if often true)  ideas.  A minor gripe is that it relies too much on questionnaires and  self-reporting (subject to lying and self-deception), though it also uses  observed behavior (which is much more reliable).  It's not nearly as  interesting as the Bottings' book &quot;Sex Appeal&quot; -- in fact it's  drained of much of the fascination we associate with this subject.  And  it's not extremely daring, so it doesn't probe to the depths like Ridley's  &quot;The Red Queen&quot;.  It's less broad than Batten's &quot;Sexual  Strategies&quot;, with which it probably overlaps the most (though Batten  has a distinctly feminist slant).<br />Still, it does a good job of making its  case and laying things out clearly without pushing the idea  too much  farther than the data allow, though in some cases the lack of intelligent  extrapolation seemed too conservative.  The book is written at a level to  be both readable by the neophyte in this area while also being informative  to someone who's familiar with the topic.  It might be a disappointment to  those who want to believe in the &quot;essential mystery&quot; of love and  attraction rather than that it's just biology.  I agree with the reviewer  who said we'd all probably be better off if the ideas presented in the book  (or similar ones) had wider currency.	2000-01-16
US	50609084	R1GGVK3JYSM9MQ	096606660X	296736285	A Man's Viewpoint: Viewing Gender Issues Through Men's Eyes	Books	4	7	7	N	N	For afficionados of the movement rather than beginners.	As someone else said in a review of another book, it's symptomatic of where we are in the gender debate these days that you have to be a woman to  critique feminism.  A man who has the audacity to do so is immediately  labeled &quot;angry&quot; or &quot;bitter&quot; or some such discount.   That men even have a valid viewpoint, much less a right to have it, is  hardly on the radar screen.  The so-called debate is really a monologue,  with women laying out to men how it's gonna be: their way or the highway.   It's as if these things only affect women.<br />Consequently, powerful and  privileged women get juicy book deals with big publishers and teams of  editors and researchers, while qualified men like Rob Mazzeo are left  trying to find some out-of-the-way publisher in more of a do-it-yourself  effort.  It wouldn't be the first time: many other books expressing a male  viewpoint read as if they came out of an underground press.  (Zubaty's  &quot;Surviving the Feminization of America&quot; comes to mind.)  This  alone is a powerful testament to men's second class status.  Heck, Jack  Kammer's excellent &quot;If Men Have All the Power, How Come Women Make the  Rules?&quot; is only available in digital form on the I-Net.<br />If you can  get past the effects of these things on a book (numerous typos, many commas  in the wrong places, sections which need re-writing or at least serious  editing, etc.) Mazzeo's book is quite good at living up to its title.  It's  as long on content as it is short on polish.<br />While some of Mazzeo's  phraseology is lifted directly from Warren Farrell's work, especially  &quot;The Myth of Male Power&quot; (sadly without attribution), and much of  what's said here will be more or less familiar to anyone well-read in the  men's rights genre, there is a unique angle that the author brings to bear  on the topic.  Plus there are tons of real-life stories from what must be a  quite extensive news clippings file (20 pgs of footnotes).  It's hard to  think of another book which argues so strongly for the need for fairness  towards men and for men's equality with women on such a wide gamut of  topics.	2000-01-11
US	50609084	R1XH6OPWTIYXXH	0553077406	355348626	How the Shaman Stole the Moon: In Search of Ancient Prophet-Scientists from Stonehenge to the Grand Canyon	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Sorry to see it out of print.	As a trained astronomer and someone who has both taught the subject at the college level and been published in the sub-field of native american astronomy, I was amazed that someone from outside the field could make such a valuable contribution as this book is.  It's both technically sound and  entertaining to read.  The explanations and arguments should be easily  graspable by the educated layperson or novice at astronomy.  They're  plausible without being outlandish.<br />The book is especially good at giving  an appreciation for how difficult it was for early scientists to acquire  the basic understandings we now take for granted.  Highly recommended to  those interested in either prehistoric southwest peoples or the arcane area  of the development of non-western timekeeping, calendars, and observational  astronomy.	2000-01-10
US	50609084	R24P44ELRRG1UI	0140245480	245442817	The Red Queen: Sex and the Evolution of Human Nature	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	OK, 4 1/2 Stars...	Like everyone else, I found the book entertaining, fascinating, illuminating, etc., so I don't have much to add to what others have already said.  I won't spoil it for you by discussing it, but I did find Ridley's main thesis unconvincing in the end. Not a huge detraction from an  admirable effort.	2000-01-09
US	50609084	R3MCDNLQ3634WE	0874777577	889742205	Sexual Strategies: How Females Choose Thier Mates	Books	4	5	8	N	N	The New, Feminacentric Sociobiology	Like the previous reviewer (who will appear here after my review), I too have read this book twice -- first from the library, then again after buying a copy some time later.  There's quite a lot of interesting reading  here on animal, primate, and human mating behavior from an evolutionary  perspective.  This puts the book in pretty good company with such books as  Ridley's &quot;The Red Queen&quot; and Cherfas &amp; Gribion's &quot;The  Redundant Male&quot;, Baker's &quot;Sperm Wars&quot; and Buss's  &quot;Evolution of Desire&quot; both being perhaps too focused on just  human behavior to be directly comparable.  Still there's a lot of overlap  of material.  Batten's book is perhaps a bit broader than it is deep (it's  only 210 pgs), but that adds to its readability, even if it causes  frustration at times as certain implications which occur to the reader are  not adequately acknowledged, much less explored.<br />Unlike the previous  reviewer, I don't think the book is all that objective at times, and I  think there's quite a lot of moralizing.  Parts of the chapter on  &quot;subverting&quot; female choice seemed to me to be particularly  noxious.  At least Batten has it right that rape (among humans) is about  male powerlessless rather than male power (as we've been hearing from  feminists for so long).  On the other hand, she seems to buy into the fact  that it's about power and not reproduction, which seems curious.  Just one  example of what I thought were contradictions left unresolved.  Another:  are males in favor of infanticide, or do the right-to-lifer's show they're  against it?  I could go on...<br />It's a common and not entirely  unjustifiable complaint about this genre of science (or pseudo-science,  depending on ones persuasion) that it merely reflects cultural biases and  current fads in thinking.  That women control the economy of eros  (reproduction) is not exactly a new idea, thought the author makes it sound  like this is something revolutionary.  That men quite often cooperate with  women in this regard perhaps isn't given enough credence here (there's an  undertone that females are entitled to their choice...), thus illuminating  another critique of this kind of book, namely that it reduces humans to  being mere animals.  We all like to believe that there is some difference,  whether it be in intelligence or the ability to conceptualize the future or  some other intangible.  The unspoken assumption in sociobiology is that  certain things are universal by virtue of their being biological, which I  think is debatable.<br />Still, Batten's book is certain to both entertain and  educate the average reader.  She has a unique angle on the topic in her  choice of objective things to relate and it's refreshing to hear certain  sacred cows taken on and sometimes debunked.  Even discussing them is an  improvement compared to what passes for debate in the marketplace of ideas  these days, so I hope I'm not making the book sound worse than it is.	2000-01-09
US	50609084	R3D5TCQ69FPP0U	0517665719	376648857	Eliot Porters Antartica	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Great photos, maybe too much text.	As a big fan of Eliot Porter's color nature photography (so real it's surreal), I bought this book for his unique take on the strangest continent on the planet.  That Porter was nearing 75 years of age when he went to  Antarctica on this NSF sponsored venture makes his accomplishment all the  more amazing.  This is some of his best work.  One only wishes, now that  he's a decade gone, that there were 50% more pictures...<br />The  travelogue/diary style text dragged at times for me, though especially  those who share Porter's interest in bird behavior will maybe find some  useful information in it.  There's a little bit of interesting history, as  well as some geology, but few insights into how these remarkable photos  were made or the deeper thoughts of the man who made them.  This is  probably good, because if Porter had spent his time being a great writer we  probably wouldn't have as much extraordinary photography.	2000-01-07
US	50609084	R28NZGOTLUXPLY	1580621732	915589924	All Men Are Jerks - Until Proven Otherwise: A Woman's Guide to Understanding Men	Books	2	21	32	N	N	The &quot;old&quot; sex - make him earn it.	While waiting for my copy of &quot;All Women Are Jerkettes - Until Proven Otherwise&quot; to come in, I saw this book on the library shelf.  I mean, the big, bold letters basically jump out at you.  Then a few pages in, you  get the disclaimer: oh, so not all men are jerks after all, but maybe they  are if we make them that way, or let them, or whatever.<br />The author's  credentials include numerous appearance on Women's TV (talk shows), so  evidently there's plenty of demand for semi-confused pabulum like this.  In  a 270 page book, the irony of a page title &quot;Stop Overanalyzing&quot;  was the best part.<br />At its best, this book is probably harmless except for  the time wasted reading it.  That the author ostensibly wants better  relationships is contradicted by the &quot;men are the enemy&quot;  generalizations, which I guess is a form of female bonding.  At worst the  book is just plain irresponsible in mainstreaming yet more misandry.<br />That  women need an endless forest of such vanilla advice/self-help books (not to  mention the magazines...), however well-written, seems to counter the  notion that women are more in touch with their feelings, to say nothing of  their supposed greater concern for the environment.  In other words, this  book repeats a worn-out message about the differences between men and  women, but the traditional perspective offered up -- and it is traditional  in spite of some new age gloss -- hardly seems appropriate for these  changed times.  Sure, some of what Schwartz says about men is at least  partially true at times, but probably irrelevant.  I'd guess a woman could  know all that's in this book and still act like a jerkette.  There's not  much here to challenge a woman to really change.  Hopefully I'm wrong	1999-12-15
US	50609084	R3OXLIIT7FGQ4P	0962067156	346310944	1: Date Young Women: For Men over 35	Books	2	26	42	N	N	Exploits Men Big Time	Like Hugh Hefner and many others, here's another man with a low regard for humanity who's discovered a way to make $$'s selling men their dreams for love.  He's basically like your high school football coach, telling you how  to earn your way to equality with women, precious darlings that they  are.<br />Steele's decades behind the times: women long ago made themselves  into overpriced luxury items no sane man really needs or wants considering  the very real risks; especially younger women, most of whom have grown up  with two decades of socially approved contempt for men and believe  themselves to be loving, caring and nurturing (ie, valuable), rather than  the shallow, uninteresting and callous creatures they are.  If you buy into  the presumptions, and the fact that you're basically worthless without a  woman, and just aren't working hard enough as it is, then you'll probably  like all these on-the-job pointers.  Pleasing a woman is a hard task with  few rewards.  The stuff on body-language is really elementary, though it  may help keep you from getting into trouble in an era when most all of male  sexuality has been criminalized.<br />But if the goal and the promised results  are so great, why's the author wasting time writing books?  Matthew  Fitzgerald's &quot;Sex-ploytation&quot; is a much better book to read if  you really want to change your perspectives and your life for the better.	1999-12-06
