US	50606968	R2GFLTY3XPAER8	0393974294	647883590	The Norton Anthology of Theory and Criticism	Books	5	14	14	N	N	The Library of Babel	Few, if any, English teachers can afford to be without this text. Whether one teaches literature or the history of criticism, the selections in this anthology offer stimuli for inquiry, contentious interventions, exemplary valuations. It offers half again as many selections as its nearest competitor in the field of anthologies of literary criticism. Moreover, the editors have done a fine job of culling chapters from key texts either published in the last thirty years, or those with rising value stemming from recent concerns. This anthology offers a good selection from the classics going back to Aristotle and Plato, but also Gorgias and Longinus (Boethius is one of the few ancients often anthologized who didn't make the cut). Most of the usual suspects are in the line up, whether one is tracking the deeds of Pope or Johnson, Kant or Schiller, Coleridge or Peacock, Poe or Baudelaire, Marx and Engels or Arnold. In addition, critics that never should have been excluded are given their rightful place in this anthology: Du Bois, Trotsky, Lukács, Gramsci, Lacan, Lévi-Strauss, Fanon, Achebe, Hall, Vizenor, Wittig, Cixous, and many others.<br />Not only does this text offer a superb selection, but the critical apparatus is excellent. The headnotes to each selection locate the given writer historically and critically. There are both author/title and subject indices. The bibliographies in the back offer both a chronological listing and an essay organized by schools and movements. Then, the table of contents shows both the sequential arrangement (by birth of author) and an alternate table that lists schools and movements. Hence, a teacher looking for theories of \\"the Modern\\" can be directed quickly to Baudelaire, Benjamin, Bellay, Eliot, Habermas, and so on.<br />A scholar or teacher lacking access to, or that needs quick sifting of an amply supplied personal or institutional library not only will be able to find many of the critical texts in this volume, but may find these texts more readily.	2002-10-02
US	50606968	R2YAPB819VG5DD	0816618526	19306394	Bearheart: The Heirship Chronicles	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Still Relevant in G. Bush's Amerika	I've been reading Gerald Vizenor since the late 1980s and this book is still my favorite.<br />_Bearheart_ is a wild dystopian ride through the American heartland. Some unnamed natural disaster has deprived the United States of its petroleum reserves. Consequently, in order to meet the growing needs for wood fuels, the governmet has nationalized timber on Indian reservations. These actions lead to a chain of events that displace Proude Cedarfair, the guardian a certain cedar grove, from his ancestral lands. The reader journeys with Proude, picking up an assortment of pilgrims along the way, to Pueblo Bonito, New Mexico.<br />This work deserves to be read alongside classic satiric journeys from Western literature, such as Chaucer's _The Canterbury Tales_ and Voltaire's _Candide_.<br />When this book was first published, Jimmy Carter was President and the nation's dependance on foreign oil was stimulating new initiatives to drain natural resources from Indian reservations with as little benefit to the inhabitants as possible. Vizenor used this political context to craft a story that pokes fun at conventional ideas regarding tribal peoples, resource exploitation, and a lot more.	2002-05-06
US	50606968	R15PLKXGVKNDSV	081172803X	614397434	Hooks For The Fly	Books	5	9	9	N	N	indispensable	I waffled for a few months before buying this book. I wasn't sure the price justified a book that appeared to be little more than cross-reference charts. I have several other such charts in other books, and printed from websites.<br />Schmidt's charts are by far the best. They consist of two lists for each of sixteen hook makers: a cross-reference chart, and a properties chart with illustrations.<br />Finding the right hook for my own patterns and determining equivalent hooks for those listed in other's patterns has become much easier. It has become hard to imagine how I got along without this book.	2002-05-06
US	50606968	R1XPJVQHFJESSX	1585743151	832722115	Favorite Flies and Their Histories	Books	4	7	7	N	N	letters from the nineteenth century	My interest in this book began while researching in Ray Bergman's (_Trout_) the deer fly that was popular a generation ago. However, my gains from this book exceed that limited purpose.<br />This book offers beautiful drawings of 290 flies that were popular years before Norman Maclean (author of _A River Runs Through It_) was born. That is, it helps ground the reader in some of the traditions of fly fishing that were well established before the production of some of the literature that catalyzed the recent explosion of interest in angling with the long rod.<br />The bulk of this book consists of letters written by hundreds of anglers from across North America. These letters list favorite flies, some tying instructions, and many gems of wisdom. The author organized these letters, added information about the history of many flies, and put together excerpts from angling literature of previous centuries. The letters were written in response to a set of questions, some of which are of less concern today. But, other concerns remain pertinent. Many letters address the relationship between fly selection a presentation, for example. Letters from the past are the raw materials of history: in this case of specific waters. Judging from the three letters from my home town, for instance, even in the 1890s the Spokane River was a challenge with a fly.<br />The republication of this book makes a classic affordable and accessible. But, the modern reader might have found some benefit from an editor's introduction that illuminates some of the history of this work's popularity and use, as well as offering some clarification of tying methods and materials of the nineteenth century.	2001-05-01
US	50606968	R33JFOJ8HSW6LZ	1585741396	194735230	Good Flies	Books	5	6	6	N	N	This man thinks about flies	It's hard to sit still long enough to read this book. Every few pages has me up out of my seat--what am I doing reading, when I could be at the vise creating? Gierach offers several ideas in this book that I've tried and like (Now, what will I do with all those Wooly Buggers tied the old way?). Of course, his preferences and biases don't always gel with my own, nor with those of other tier-authors. But even when I disagree (I like the looks of beadheads), the preferences he explains in this book offer plenty to think about. In addition, he offers some unforgetable common sense anecdotes reminscent of the stories in books like _Sex, Death, and Fly-Fishing_.<br />One quibble: The cover blurb compares Gierach favorably with Mark Twain. As a humorist I think Twain may remain above Gierach. But Gierach's reputation as a humorist after the manner of Twain fails to offer justice to the range of Gierach's work.	2001-02-22
US	50606968	R4VWF0GQ6RLLV	0684825392	367125722	Solar Storms	Books	5	30	32	N	N	Powerful prose, compelling vision	_Solar Storms_ is a powerful novel that should appeal to anyone concerned with issues relating to the environment, Indians, community activism, abuse, feminism, or cultural politics. Its fine writing offers even stronger drawing power.<br />The story is set 1972-1974 within a Native community threatened with destruction by the kind of economic development that marginalizes and exploits the north country to benefit other communities in the south. It is told from the point of view of one of the central characters. Angel is 17 when she returns home, trying to get a sense of her past and the origin of the scars that disfigure her face. Her quest for identity and information quickly broadens into larger, and more substantial concerns for the people of Adam's Rib. As she finds her place there, she gains perspective leading to commitments that reveal her developing inner strength. She learns that her individual identity finds its best expression in terms of her relationships within a community that encompasses other people, land and water, and all life.<br />Through the development of Angel's perspective, and the ideas and actions of the women who become her mentors, author Linda Hogan puts forth an astoundingly powerful vision of the relationships among humans and the natural world that sustain life. She does this with a richly detailed text that even readers who may not share Hogan's perspective will find the book enjoyable and provocative.<br />Hogan's _Solar Storms_ offers a reminder that the best stories are critical to human life not only for the pleasure of the text, but because they motivate ethical life. _Solar Storms_ merits recognition as a modern classic of American literature.	2000-10-20
US	50606968	R2ST5KGCNWDV48	0295977396	134697685	First Fish, First People: Salmon Tales of the North Pacific Rim	Books	5	9	9	N	N	International perspectives	This book is a work of art, and provides evidence that the University of Washington Press, through its cooperation with other smaller publishers (such as One Reel) is doing the work that needs to be done in Northwest history and cultural studies.<br />This book is a collection of perpectives on salmon from representatives of the peoples around the pacific rim whose lives have centered on salmon for thousands of years. The contributors are talented indigenous writers from the United States, Canada, Japan, and Siberia. The engaging text is amply illustrated with historic and contemporary photographs, as well as drawings. The historic photographs are not the same ones that usually appear. For example, nearly every book on salmon in the nortwest has a twentieth century photograph of Indians fishing at Celilo Falls. Most books use the same photo. This book uses one that features in the forground the cable system that was used to get down to the fishing platforms, with the fishing platforms themselves in the background.<br />Some of the work in this book has been published elsewhere. But the context it is given here accentuates it in useful ways. For example, Sherman Alexie's poem, &quot;The Place Where Ghosts of Salmon Jump,&quot; is engraved into a sculpture in Overlook Park behind the Spokane Public Library and is published in _The Summer of Black Widows_. But in this book it appears beside a nice photograph of the falls as it appears today, and a photo of Mr. Alexie standing on the footbridge above a section of the falls pointing downstream.	2000-09-21
US	50606968	R19NQUS9PYHXOR	0870043935	601615417	Dreamers	Books	4	9	9	N	N	With a library and knapsack in his VW microbus . . .	Martin Stadius has put together a narrative of travel along the Nez Perce trail, and through the stacks of books and articles that have been written about that episode in US history. He navigates both trails well. His blend of personal narrative and historical analysis does a good job of sorting facts from myths, and offers often compelling description of the landscape.<br />Some of what I like about this book: Stadius took some good pictures along the route and put them in this book. He spent the obligatory time in Pullman, Washington poring through the McWhorter papers. He listened well to one of the most knowledgeable people alive today concerning the Nez Perce war--Otis Halfmoon, National Park Service Ranger--and gives a good description of that Nez Perce man's storytelling ability. He reveals a sense of ethics in his exploration of places and sources. He recognizes the incompetence of the would-be poachers he saw fishing in a &quot;no fishing&quot; section of Yellowstone Park.<br />My first thought when I saw this book was that it would be another urbanite's tour through Indian country (like Ian Frazier's _On the Rez_). But as Stadius follows the Nez Perce trail, he deftly weaves together natural history, perceptive observation, good manners, and an inquisitive spirit tempered by respect for the sacred. His prose keeps running smoothly in a manner akin to his miracle bus because he's willing to get out and wade a creek before attempting to drive through, and knows his limits. That scene from the book could stand as a metaphor for his journeys through the pasts and places along the Nez Perce trail.<br />This book will not have the enduring power of McWhorter's accounts that are based on first hand testimony. But in our time it is one of the better books on the subject.	2000-09-21
US	50606968	RAPZ4T24HED42	0312264852	179647013	Carp Fishing on Valium and Other Tales of the Stranger Road Traveled	Books	3	3	4	N	N	The joys of catch and release	Despite the title of Parker's book and my review, this book is not about  angling. _Carp Fishing on Valium_ is a collection of linked stories that  follow the life of a British musician named Brian Porker. Author Parker's  wit, and Porker's often stumbling ways make for enjoyable reading. Further,  some provocative observations reveal a yearning on the part of the author  to contribute a work of serious literature. Porker's experiences reflect a  number of episodes in recent history (such as the cutting of Mr. Bobbitt),  as well as delving into some of the underlying cultural issues, including  gender politics and issues relating to the profit-driven music industry.  Porker fancies himself a serious artist hemmed in by other's expectations,  but also hindered by bad habits.<br />This book is more serious than much of  the throw-away fiction that dominates best-seller lists. The entertaining  narrative hints at a deeper purpose. But, in this ambition, the author was  only partly successful. Reading _Carp Fishing on Valium_ provided an  evening of laughter, as well as briefly stimulating productive reflection.  But, having finished it, it sits on the shelf gathering dust. It offers  little of enduring value. Reading this book was like catching and releasing  a small trout. It is pure joy for a few minutes, but when the game is over,  not much has changed.	2000-09-12
US	50606968	R2M220D4TQUN4	0312147384	669952688	The Sky Fisherman: A Novel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Energizing and provocative	Craig Lesley is one of those writers that well-meaning acquaintances tried  to push on me several years ago. Hence, I resisted much of his work, and  reluctantly read _Winterkill_ one afternoon out of a sense of obligation.  After reading _The Sky Fisherman_, I'll likely become one of those who  pushes his work on others.<br />The story is narrated by Culver, a teenager at  the time of the events in the book, and told from a point of view some time  later. These events were decisive moments in Culver's coming of age, and  marked a critical time of transition for the network of small towns at the  center. Young Culver must find the way to deal with the traumas of his  father's death, his step-father's failures, his mother's fears, and more  adventure helping his uncle Jake than most young men are called upon to  survive. Culver's drive to know more about his father brings out buried  conflicts that threaten to destroy the little bit of stability that anchors  his existence. Lesley gives Culver a voice through these struggles that  offers a gripping narrative. Culver's youth and inexperience prior to the  momentous events come through clearly in his reflections as an adult. There  is wisdom in Culver's perspective, but Lesley avoids the pitfalls of  forcing this wisdom on the reader.<br />In some respects, this book is like a  large number of other coming-of-age Western novels, from _Huckleberry Finn_  to _A River Runs Through It_. With its setting in border towns near an  Indian Reservation, and communities where the economic life centers on  lumber and river recreation, the book aptly reflects  life in the rural  West. Unlike so many other such novels, however, Lesley allows a sensitive  and perceptive portrayal of Indian-white relations into the heart of the  book, but without making race relations the driving force of the narrative.  In doing so, he may get closer to the heart of the West than most of the  novelists and historians who have made the effort.<br />This novel is a  serious work of fiction, entertaining and provocative. It stimulated me as  a reader in several ways. I'm  eager to return to _Winterkill_, as well as  Lesley's other novels. I'm stimulated to make a dent in my pile of unread  books by a host of other writers. And, I'm provoked to write by Lesley's  powerful handling of the language. In addition, reading this book the week  prior to a steelheading trip on the Deschutes River also proved to be good  timing. This book energized me in a fundamentally important way: it  reminded me of the reasons money saved from avoiding a cable-TV  subscription is well-spent on literature.	2000-09-12
US	50606968	R3T34CMX4020HR	0929925130	597156587	To Have This Land: The Nature of Indian/White Relations : South Dakota : 1888-1891	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Surprisingly balanced	In the preface to this book, Philip Hall explains the two-fold purpose of  this book. It is an effort to tell a story of the Wounded Knee massacre of  1890 from the standpoint of local frontier history, rather than the more  common efforts that treat the event as an episode in American Indian  history, or in Western military history. Hence he tells the story of white  settlers and ranchers in the area. The second purpose is to contribute to a  deeper and more meaningful effort at reconciliation between Indians and  whites in western South Dakota.<br />Hall does a good job of the first goal,  orchestrating the views of participants on the settler side of the  Indian-white encounter around the time of the massacre. He shows that these  views were more complicated than readers of other histories might suspect.  In putting forth these views, he also lays out some perspectives that  could, with a focused and committed political effort, stimulate the  possibilities of mutual understanding between Indians and whites in South  Dakota, as well as other areas in the West. He shows that participants in  the crisis of 1890 found themselves caught up in events beyond their  control. They were faced with choices in which all the alternatives failed  to satisfy their priorities. In the choices they would have liked to make  they might have found the basis for peaceful coexistence, rather than the  violence and oppression that became the mode of interracial  relations.<br />Hall does a good job of orchestrating a narrative that evokes  these possibilities. However, his approach often seems too much that of a  journalist who conceals his stake in the outcome of the events. His second  objective--racial healing--might be served better by stronger analysis and  the commitment throughout the text that is put forth in the preface and the  author's bio.	2000-09-12
US	50606968	RIDXR9I5WB4B	0806125640	138806563	American Indian Tribal Governments (The Civilization of the American Indian Series)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Great Focus; exceptional primer	There is much to say in favor of this book. Its main focus is the operation of tribal governments. Because there is so much variety, the author looks at five representative governments in some detail--the  Haudenosaunee (Iroquois League), the Muscogee (Creek) Nation, the Teton  Sioux, the Pueblos, and the Yakimas (who since the publication of this book  have revised the official spelling, using the name that appears in the  treaty of 1855, Yakama). O'Brien wrote this book with the cooperation and  assistance of those she was writing about.<br />In addition to this focus, the  book has the best brief overview of Federal Indian policy I've seen  anywhere (about 70 pages). Unlike most books on the subject, the book is  amply illustrated with photographs and other images, as well as maps,  graphs, and abundant sidebars.<br />I always use one or more texts on Federal  Indian law and policy in my American Indian history courses. Students often  call these books dry. When I have used O'Brien's book, students have  praised the book and said they enjoy reading it.	2000-07-18
US	50606968	R20O5NRD7DEB8S	0803279876	96691224	Black Hills/White Justice: The Sioux Nation versus the United States, 1775 to the Present	Books	3	11	12	N	N	good overview with a tilt	This book offers good historical narrative, but also justifies the actions of the author's father. It lacks balance in its perspectives.<br />The author's father, Arthur Lazarus, was one of the principle attorney's who  won the largest, longest running Indian land claims case in US history. In  1980 the US Supreme Court upheld a judgement in favor of the Sioux of $17.1  million plus interest for loss of the Black Hills. However, the check has  never been cashed; rather, the judgement money continues to draw interest.  The Sioux now reject their legal victory that awarded them &quot;just  compensation&quot; for loss of sacred lands, arguing that only restoration  of these lands to the Sioux will end the conflict. <br />In _Black Hills /  White Justice_, Edward Lazarus describes the legal efforts of Oglala  attorney Mario Gonzalez (one of the leaders in the land restoration  movement) as a Lakota Don Quixote who lacks a sense of reality. This bias  affects much of the story that Lazarus tells in this history.<br />Never the  less, there is no other book that offers a comprehensive overview of the  history of US-Sioux relations through more than two centuries. The book is  well researched and well written. It is a good primer.<br />The story in this  book begins as the Sioux begin their rise to dominance on the northern  Plains as they acquire horses and guns. The focus then shifts to the  interactions of the Sioux with non-Indians from early traders and explorers  to government officials, soldiers, settlers, and finally, bureaucrats and  lawyers. In the focus on this relationship, the book offers little insight  into the internal dynamics of Sioux culture, but it says more about the  legal relationships between tribes and the federal government than many  other books.	2000-07-18
US	50606968	R1ZL5D8IR3A4QF	0809317680	683177161	The Rights of Indians and Tribes: The Basic ACLU Guide to Indian Tribal Rights (American Civil Liberties Union Handbook)	Books	4	19	19	N	N	Good beginning	This book is far from definitive, but is a good start. If the educational reformers wanted to really make positive change occur, they would find a way to put this book in the hands of every high school government teacher  in the United States. Those teachers who actually read it could then be  pointed toward the exceptional works that go into more depth by Charles  Wilkinson, David Wilkins, Robert A. Williams, Vine Deloria, Jr., Frank  Pommersheim, and the definitive Westlaw Casebook, edited by David H.  Getches, Wilkinson, and Williams, now in its fourth edition.<br />In teaching  American Indian history, I find that I often refer to this little primer,  but nearly always have to go beyond it to find out what I need. However, I  have found it particularly useful for those on a limited budget who need  something that provides a basic overview of the critical areas of the laws  affecting Native peoples and Indian tribes.	2000-07-18
US	50606968	REPLT40RU82LR	0811727483	610654441	Essential Trout Flies: Step-by-step tying instructions for 31 indispensable pattern styles and their most useful variations (Step-By-Step Tying Instructions for 31 Indispensible Pattern)	Books	5	43	43	N	N	Adds clarity and purpose	This book has excellent instructions on fly tying, a selection of terrific patterns, and advice on how to fish the flies. All this is to be expected from a basic book on fly tying. But, this book is more useful than many  others because author Dave Hughes organizes the patterns by styles and  offers a primer for creating two basic fly boxes (one for dries, and one  for wets, streamers, nymphs) that should catch trout anywhere in the world.  The beginner can learn the basics of tying and fishing with this book.  Intermediate fly fishers can strengthen the organization and foundation of  their knowledge. And, although I don't consider myself an expert, I would  imagine when I reach that stage, I'll still find myself referring to this  book from time to time.	2000-07-13
US	50606968	R3UWJWW38U4544	0312141424	303383099	Trout Reflections: A Natural History of the Trout and Its World	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A primer in natural history	I found this book in the library and kept reading it so long I paid twice the cost of the book in fines. Now, I've ordered my own copy because I cannot be without it.<br />Written in the style of Aldo Leopold's _Sand County  Almanac_, this is a focused study of stream ecology, But it is not a dry  book of science. It is a story of a stream through four seasons. The author  writes of a place he knows well through a lifetime of hiking and fishing,  but where he can still experience childlike wonder. Through his narrative,  the reader learns about the fish, the water, plants and insects, birds and  beasts, and the relationships that sustain the cycles of life and death  along a stream. The author offers perspectives that develops a sense of  ecological responsibility.	2000-07-13
US	50606968	RVBTKKM9JKRO6	0295975466	365578056	Northwest Passage	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Exceptional history, balanced perspective	I have taught Pacific Northwest History at high school and college levels, and found this book one of the best regional histories published. Although focused on the Columbia River, it presents more of the general history of  the interior Northwest (east of the Interstate 5 corridor) than any other  history of the region. Of course, the Columbia River and its tributaries  are central to Northwest history from the fish that archaeologists  discovered to be the core of Kennewick Man's diet to the present Kaiser  Steelworkers lockout and the controversy over Snake River dams.<br />The story  of human modification of the Columbia River is one of heroism and greed,  boom and bust, promotion and fraud, and the winners and losers that go  along with the competition among interest groups. Dietrich tells the story  with drama, fairness to competing interests, and the kind of focus that  requires a point of view. His history is honest, rather than objective;  committed, rather than unbiased. It is rich in details, but doesn't lose  sight of the big picture. This is newspaper-style feature writing at its  best.<br />At the core of this book is a story of a peoples' faith in  progress, the achievement this faith enabled, and the blind spots this  faith nurtured. Immense benefits and enormous failures have resulted from  this faith. Now, as Dietrich makes clear, we must reexamine our basic  assumptions and redetermine our priorities.<br />Not every reader will agree  with Dietrich's priorities and perspectives, but few can identify critical  points that he missed. His facts are sound. My only complaint is that too  little accommodation is made for readers who want to track down and verify  some of his statements of fact. The book has a bibliography and index, but  no endnotes. It is published by a university press, but lacks the usual  scholarly apparatus.	2000-07-11
US	50606968	RYL7TSCXS1B58	068812299X	901952437	Stiffed: The Betrayal of the American Man	Books	4	16	19	N	N	A book to talk about	I have issues with my father, and other issues with my sons. I'm not a feminist, but an ally of feminism. I've been seeking ways to redefine the expectations called &quot;manhood&quot; since my divorce more than a decade  ago. I've seen men's movements that get their agenda by taking the opposite  position of NOW on every point, and I've heard &quot;enlightened men&quot;  claim they'd prefer to live in a matriarchy. Men often feel stiffed, and  they're often unreasonably concerned with remaining stiff. So, when an  acclaimed feminist takes on manhood in America and listens well, it merits  my attention.<br />Faludi's book is based on in-depth interviews of porn stars  and movie stars, conspiracy theorists and promise keepers, displaced  workers and juvenile deliquents. What holds the book together is the  methodology Faludi employed, although she never explains it as such. She  sought far and wide for &quot;men in crisis&quot;. She tells a good story,  an interesting story, and one that will ring true for a great many men, as  well as the women who love them and hate them. She tells this story  well.<br />One of the consistent themes in the book is a gap between  expectations and reality for men of the post-WWII generation, and the  crisis of identity they've bequeathed to their sons. This crisis is not the  whole story, but it is certainly a major chord. Faludi tells it long, and  she keeps you reading. _Stiffed_ is a big book, and those who want her to  get to the point and explain what it all means will be disappointed. The  few tentative conclusions she draws are shallow and incomplete. It is the  process that interests her, rather than the conclusion (some might say that  is one of the ways her feminist perspective shows through).<br />However, in  this process she leaves out a critical element. She writes of sons and  their fathers, but says very little about these sons as fathers. This book  appealed to me as a divorced father of two sons, a widowed father ofa  third, and now step-father to another. None of these roles are highlighted  in the lives of the men she interviewed. In a story that often focuses on  father-son relationships, Faludi misses the third generation.<br />All this is  to say that _Stiffed_ is a flawed book, but it is one of the best flawed  books I've read. And despite its flaws, it's well worth reading and  discussing. In ten years this book will be forgotten, but only because  people have read it, argued with it, and following a similar process have  written more.	2000-07-11
US	50606968	R3OTY3L872NVTU	0761990631	334064710	Inuit, Whaling, and Sustainability (Contemporary Native American Communities)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Topical ethnography at its best	I stumbled across this book while researching the Makah Whaling controversy. It has one page on the Makah and whaling, offering comparative perspectives on a story set further north. While the Makah are trying to  revive a tradition of whaling that ceased more than sixty years ago, Inuit  peoples across the Arctic are struggling to maintain their way of life. The  hurdles they must overcome to continue on their way include a declining  resource base that results from an extraction-based economy, and the  environmentalist opponents of these extractive industries who want to  &quot;save the whales&quot;. This book is the story of the Inuit and  whaling told in their words. The authors include an international  interdisciplinary team brought together by the Inuit Circumpolar  Conference.<br />This book is ground-breaking ethnography that is put together  by the people it is about. It is presented for the purpose of opening  dialogue with those in far away places whose political priorities have  consequences for Inuit peoples. It is a story of a region that spans three  continents, and which is of growing importance to those of us who live in  the south. No one interested in economic development of natural resources,  whatever the point of view, can afford to ignore this book.	2000-07-11
US	50606968	R1YYDY49KRXEDW	1571880194	975024257	Lee Wulff	Books	3	5	5	N	N	A missed opportunity	Jack Samson had the knowledge, experience, and access to the materials  needed to write a solid biography of Lee Wulff. Wulff's achievements  (originated fly patterns most anglers carry, and the vest in which we carry  them; a leader in catch-and-release angling and salmon conservation; a fine  writer) certainly merit the attention of a biographer. Samson's book has  not filled this gap.<br />The best parts of this book are the abundant  quotations from Wulff's prolific writings and occasional useful  contextualization provided by Samson. The narrative itself offers neither  insight into Wulff's character, nor compelling reading. There are enough  anecdotes to incite interest, but too little follow-through on many  interesting topics.<br />There are also nice photographs, some of which are  Samson's.<br />With the journalistic style Samson employs, Samson demonstrates  that Wulff speaks clearly for himself on issues of interest and importance  to anglers. Further, Samson demonstrates that he knows a good bit about  Wulff's life and writing. He could have created a useful anthology to  introduce readers to one of the most original sports fishing authors of the  twentieth century. Such an anthology might still be welcome.<br />This book  provokes interest that it cannot satisfy. Fortunately, Wulff's own books  are still available.	2000-07-08
US	50606968	R1YAKF3SW060RB	0806128542	546844497	Eye Killers: A Novel (American Indian Literature and Critical Studies Series)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Merging traditions, challenging dominance	_Eye Killers_ brings together and reconstructs two traditions in fiction. It is another healing novel by and about American Indians of the Southwest in the tradition of Momaday's Pulitzer Prize winning _House Made of Dawn_  and Silko's _Ceremony_. It is also a vampire novel, but not one that  romanticizes vampires for the gothic crowd. _Eye Killers_ presents vampires  as the monsters they are. Along the way, however, A. A. Carr presents new  antidotes to the stock of vampire lore. I don't want to say too much here  and ruin the surprise that many readers seek, so I'll keep it general.  Unlike most Western vampire lore that reinforces the truth-claims of  Christianity and validates the world-views of Western civilization, _Eye  Killers_ offers a narrative that validates Pueblo beliefs, healing rituals,  and sacred ceremonies. Furthermore, one of the characters, and one suspects  the author, considers the presence of vampires in Albuquerque a symptom of  the world out of balance as a consequence of the mining of uranium (and a  civilization that considers such exploitation of the land a benefit to  humanity). The vampires must be destroyed, but the evil that brought them  into existence is a stronger adversary.	2000-06-02
US	50606968	R1RAB0OYJCKLBY	1882413768	917705183	One Stick Song	Books	4	32	34	N	N	Excellent, although not Alexie's best	Sherman Alexie's _One Stick Song_ offers more of what readers are learning to expect from one of the most talented young writers in the United States. Alexie's poetry offers comic perspectives toward contemporary Indian life  in America. His writing exposes the twisted logic of stereotypes that  infect liberal romanticism, challenges and reconstructs basic national,  civil, and religious myths, and plays-in a most serious manner-at the edges  of our language.<br />Alexie is the master of the one-liner, and every book  has many memorable lines. He also does exceptional work with poetic form.  Some of his poems have enlivened such old forms as blank verse, sestinas,  sonnets, and epics. Yet his poetry remains accessible to readers who find  the poetry taught in schools stale and obtuse. (Now, of course, Alexie is  fast becoming one of the poets taught in schools.) In my teaching, I have  had many students tell me they cannot read poetry, and then become seekers  of poetry after exposure to a few of Alexie's poems.<br />Alexie's poetry is  not for readers who are insecure in their beliefs. His approach-on the  page, and in person-is aptly described as in-your-face. In _One Stick Song_  he offers lines that had me cheering his attack on a liberal scared cow  that I've been afraid to confront with the profanity he employs (perhaps  the only reasonable response). But he does not leave my own cherished  delusions safe, driving me to reexamine basic assumptions.<br />The four-star  rating I've given this book does not reflect the strength of the book when  measured against other living poets. 4.8 stars would be more accurate.  Rather, the rating reflects my disappointment in this book compared to  Alexie's _Summer of Black Widows_. The earlier book is Alexie's best  poetry. _One Stick Song_, on the other hand, is a poetic companion volume  to _The Toughest Indian in the World_, his new collection of short stories.  In this set, the prose offers more of the innovation that is becoming  Alexie's trademark.	2000-06-02
US	50606968	R2ULAXU5ZA6ZMB	0816519935	916651647	from Sand Creek (Sun Tracks)	Books	5	57	59	N	N	Offers a spiritual center	In November 1864 in Colorado Territory a village of Cheyenne and Arapaho was savagely assaulted by the Colorado Volunteers under the leadership of the Reverend Colonel Chivington. Ortiz calls to mind this event in prose,  and then offers on the facing page poetry of hope and renewal. That is how  this remarkable book begins. Throughout the book, the author (one of the  best American poets writing today) pairs poems on one page with historical  vignettes, personal notes, and political comments on the facing page. The  book moves through alcohol treatment in VA hospitals, American mythology  that undergirds a sense of mission, episodes in Indian-white relations, and  many other such topics. In this work Ortiz builds toward a vision of  America that is political committed, spiritually centered, and humanizing.  He expresses this vision in full knowledge and acceptance of the awful  truths of patterns of mistreatment and oppression. Unlike so much of the  patriotism that is rooted in a &quot;my country right or wrong&quot;  attitude, Ortiz writes as an Acoma Pueblo Indian and US citizen who loves  this country deeply for what it can be.<br />I came to this book a number of  years ago full of anger and cynicism developing as a result of learning the  history that had been suppressed from the school curriculum. I had always  been deeply patriotic, but was finding the truth might shatter that. Ortiz  offered more evidence of the lies, but placed these facts in a framework of  a dream &quot;of love and compassion and knowledge&quot; (96). No book has  done more for the development of my sense of myself as a white American.  From my point of view this book is simply the best book in print (and it  was out of print for several years).	2000-04-14
US	50606968	R3UHGK81H9UNRL	0878421408	939318801	Fly Tying: Adventures in Fur, Feathers and Fun	Books	5	9	9	N	N	My whole family learned from this book	I bought this book with plans to begin tying flies. After watching me tie McKim's &quot;Just a Bug&quot; pattern, my partner had to try it too. Within a few days she, I, our two youngest children (ages 8 and 11), and  her father had all tied flies. In addition, with the author's directions, I  made two of the tools I now use for tying. The book has loads of  information beginners like my family and I need regarding tying techniques,  tools, materials, and fishing techniques for new patterns. After tying my  first 100 flies (15 patterns) based on the instructions in this book and  one other, I was able to examine the fly that gave me an hour of non-stop  fishing action last summer and figure out how to tie it. Now I'm ready to  return to the stream with a dozen of my favorite pattern fresh off my own  vise.	2000-04-10
US	50606968	R2EJ8CJQBLVYIE	1878175130	884868072	Fly Tying Made Clear and Simple	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Best instructions for beginners	Although I learned the basics of fly tying more than twenty-five years ago from my father, I didn't start tying with any regularity until a month ago. I've read a dozen how-to books and as many magazine articles. Morris' book  has the clearest instructions, the best photographs, and the most  reasonable and logical sequence for learning the art of fly tying. The  author combines knowledge of tying procedures with clarity of writing and  sound pedagogy.	2000-04-10
US	50606968	R2EB3ASNGN12L9	0312199694	376314999	In the Bear's House	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Thought provoking work of beauty	This book presents Momaday's work--new and old--concerned with Bear and the idea of wilderness. It offers poetry, drama, and painting all centered on Bear as a representation of the wilderness. Momaday's idea of the  wilderness reflects neither the central strand in American life that comes  down from the Puritans, nor the preservationist ideology of urban-bound  environmentalists, but his writing critically reflects upon both these  traditions. Momaday finds Bear, and hence the wilderness, in a conversation  between God and the original bear while eating huckleberries, on a train in  Moscow, in the drawing for a bronze statue, and many other such places.  Throughout this book, the author's life-long concern for the life of the  imagination as our best existence (as he has often said) shows forth. This  book is an excellent introduction to the work of a great American writer,  as well as a beautiful addition to any collection already well-stocked with  Momaday's work.<br />I taught this book as the first in a sequence of five  books in a course on Native American poetry. The students loved it. Some of  our discussions of the paintings were among the best my classes have had.	2000-03-29
US	50606968	R12OKAU8TWNZHI	080213680X	530997578	The Earth Shall Weep: A History of Native America	Books	5	46	47	N	N	Best one-volume overview	This book offers a readable overview of the major themes in American Indian history. Although there are many things one could find to fault in this book, there is no better overview. I especially like the way the  author (a white man from Britain) weaves together orthodox academic opinion  with Native voices. Wilson's book deftly combines a chronological approach  with organization by regions. In each region he highlights general  patterns, but then focuses much of the narrative on a few representative  tribal histories. Had he tried to write about all of the more than 500  tribes, nations, villages, and bands of Native North America, he would have  produced an unreadable book. Instead, he selects those groups that allow  him to give enough detail to keep the narrative flowing, while also  emphasizing the interrelations of peoples and places that are central to  the best history. Throughout the narrative, he offers long quotes from  published versions of Native orature.<br />This book is an exceptional  introduction to the history usually suppressed or misrepresented in schools  and colleges. It is accessible to high school and college level readers,  but can even add to the store of knowledge of experts in American Indian  history. It has become the core text in many of my classes.	2000-03-29
US	50606968	RL7ICCYRU87TH	082630656X	421023354	Cabeza de Vaca's Adventures in the Unknown Interior of America (Zia Book)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Assign this book . . .	in every high school class, now that it costs next to nothing. This is colonial American history every bit as significant as the writings of John Smith (Virginia colony) and William Bradford (Plymouth colony). It also  offers more accurate ethnographic information. Alvar Nunez Cabeza de Vaca  was a remarkable man who understood more than most would-be conquistadors,  and whose experiences among the indigenous inhabitants of North America  convinced him that the Spanish had much to learn from these new peoples  they sought to dominate. Cabeza de Vaca's narrative makes clear that at the  very beginnings of colonization, there were efforts to reconcile the  profound diffenences that gave rise to five centuries of cultural conflict.  His attitudes stand in such marked contrast to Hernanado De Soto, Francisco  Coronado, Juan de Onate, and others, that it is perhaps too easy to  romanticize Cabeza de Vaca.<br />This book is based on one of the reputable  translations of Cabeza de Vaca's work. It has useful historical and  literary assesments of the work. It might have been improved with a map or  two.	2000-03-06
US	50606968	RXM1E0HWZMQR0	0803277903	278191364	Celluloid Indians: Native Americans and Film	Books	2	17	23	N	N	readable introduction, but flawed	&quot;Celluloid Indians&quot; takes on a lengthy and complex history of Natives Americans in film from D.W. Griffith to Sherman Alexie. It offers discussions of nearly 60 films spanning the twentieth century. It  highlights some general trends from negative to positive stereotypes, and  then towards the depiction of Native Americans as human beings. The  author's discussion of such films as &quot;Pocahontas&quot; and  &quot;Sunchaser&quot; are perceptive. However, much of what she offers is  derivative of the works of others, the research is thin, and there are  egregious errors in her discussion of Federal Indian policy. Because of the  general level of ignorance in American society of some of the political and  historical context that Kilpatrick rightly identifies as relevant to these  films, this book is horribly dangerous.<br />The book offers a useful general  overview, but readers must labor to verify many of her statements of fact.	1999-12-08
US	50606968	RRKWG3GLFWVJZ	0806126736	246360536	Other Destinies: Understanding the American Indian Novel (American Indian Literature and Critical Studies Series)	Books	3	11	16	N	N	Overrated	I've been struggling with this book since it was first published. I've seen it influence dozens of other scholars who, for the most part, rave about its merits. When I read this book for the first time I was deeply  immersed in study of many of the books Owens writes about. My initial  experince in reading the book was quite mixed. I would find myself saying  &quot;right on&quot; in one paragraph, followed by &quot;nonsense&quot; in  the next.<br />Louis Owens writes well and communicates a perspective  regarding the creative work of Native American Indian writers that is  widely shared by many who study these writers professionally. His own  novels are worth reading, and he seemed like a warm and friendly person  when I've met him at conferences.<br />With all these positive attributes, why  does this book deserve three stars? I disagree with Owens critical  emphasis; his argument has been influential. He claims that  &quot;identity&quot; is the central theme of Native writing. He argues that  all Native writers must come to terms with their own mixedblood identity,  and with consequent marginalization in two worlds. There is no question  that identity is an important issue, but it is far from the central one.  For many Native writers it is insignificant. For some, it is central. For  others, it is an issue subordinated under other more significant issues.  Identity is part of a complex of issues (land, resources, spirituality,  images, and stereotypes) that are ultimately concerned with issues of  self-control by individuals and communities. For tribal peoples in the  United States the central issue, if there is one, is sovereignty. Because  of the results of histories of denationalization (a word employed by  Cherokee writers in the 1830s) many Native American Indian people are  trying to find their way home (as some writers have put it). But, many  others have never left home and have never suffered a crisis of  self-identity. The academy, by and large, finds issues of identity a quite  palatable way to accept literatures of difference because doing so does not  require recognizing systemic problems in some of the fundamental  assumptions of American colonization.	1999-12-08
US	50606968	R1VF4O2VV8SU5B	0394555082	642527170	Dutch: A Memoir of Ronald Reagan	Books	5	12	22	N	N	Fictive history as enigmatic as Reagan himself	I didn't expect to like this book. I was surprised. I've never read a book this size in four days (and I read for a living). I laughed, I cried, I cheered and booed, and I cannot get this book out of my head. Part of what  I'm struggling with is a sense that I've been taken in again by a  confidence man (as I was in 1980 and 1984). But the stories in  &quot;Dutch&quot; are at least as compelling as the fabrication Ronald  Reagan concocted to push his notion of welfare &quot;reform&quot;. I  suspect that most readers who are disappointed by &quot;Dutch&quot; are  looking for other books--the hagiography by Dinesh D'Souza, the  &quot;objective&quot; tomes by Lou Cannon, or the exceptional study by  Michael Rogin. &quot;Dutch&quot; is more personal, although the persona at  the heart of the book (the author) is a work of fiction. The difficulty  many readers have with the blurring of the lines between fact and fiction  in this work is so Reagan-like that I cannot comprehend their dislike of  the book. &quot;Dutch&quot; will stand as a testament to the brilliant  ignorance of Ronald Reagan and his era less for its analysis of the times,  than for its expression of them.<br />I not only voted for Reagan twice, I  argued with friends, put up posters, and wore buttons promoting his  election in 1980. By 1988 the disaster beneath the &quot;good times&quot;  the press created in their &quot;news&quot; stories had convinced me to  vote for Jesse Jackson. My story cannot be told without reference to  Reagan, his should not be told without reference to the ways he affected  ordinary Americans.<br />President Reagan restored a sense of national pride  in America, but much of the basis of this sense of pride should appal us.  The Reagan Presidency increased class privilege for a few, redefined  economic success in ways that hurt most of us (including a deepening of  economic roots in military technologies), set envionmental protections back  two decades, and aggravated racial tensions. The reverence that many  continue to hold for Reagan, his continuing appeal, presents an enigma that  demands new methods for comprehending the past and present. Although clumsy  in certain ways (Edmund Morris is no Toni Morrison), &quot;Dutch&quot; is  an admirable beginning.	1999-12-06
US	50606968	R2QOT009E73V80	0930100743	951359770	Red Earth: A Vietnam Warrior's Journey	Books	5	9	10	N	N	student favorite	I have taught this book alongside classic works of Native American (such as Leslie Silko's &quot;Ceremony&quot;), alongside exceptional works of Native philosophy (e.g. Vine Deloria's &quot;Red Earth / White Lies&quot;)  and alongside some of the most popular contemporary Native writing (Sherman  Alexie, among others). Red Eagle's &quot;Red Earth&quot; holds its own in  all these contexts, and has been the favorite of many students in my  classes.<br />&quot;Red Earth&quot; is a magical pair of stories dealing with  the trauma not only of Vietnam, but American colonialism.	1999-12-06
