US	50613591	RMWDQTWZ5WR2N	0505525232	37467891	Hot Number	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	A fun, fast read	Michael and Ashley Kavanaugh are a divorced couple who win the lottery (separately, by playing their anniversary date) and end up on the same cruise together - minus either of their current love interests.  Through Michael's sister's machinations (who happens to be Ashley's best friend) they wind up in the same cabin onboard the cruise. Sparks fly like crazy between these two and they can barely keep their hands to themselves. They are still wildly attracted to each other but both are wary of each other since each feels they were the wronged party in their divorce 2 years earlier.  Ashley thinks Michael was unfaithful, Michael thinks Ashley lacked faith in him.  This was a light and fun read.	2004-03-26
US	50613591	R6PENKBE89E1	0505525321	419667096	Calder's Rose	Books	5	32	33	N	N	Great Debut!	I finished this book in a day and to me this is the hallmark of a terrific author.  I found this book very entertaining.  I couldn't figure out if it was a contemporary or a western - and finally decided it was both rolled into one!  The novel is written with a book-within-a-book concept and I found it very creative and interesting.  The story is of 2 authors, who both write western series books, but each with a different twist.  Their editor and publicist decide it would be a good idea for their two characters to meet in a combined story.  Hence the title, Calder's Rose.  Devin's heroine, Rose Coltraine, is a bit prudish, despite being a saloon owner.  Shane's hero, Dare Calder, is a cocky gunslinger who loves `em and leaves `em.  The 2 authors seem to have different outlooks on life and initially have a hard time getting along despite their obvious attraction.  I thought their book would never get done!  But the whole idea of the characters, Rose and Dare, playing matchmaker for Devin and Shane, was so inspired and original!  Great story and definitely a 5-star read in my book.	2003-06-06
US	50613591	R3PJWS0MG9454L	0743442725	662355506	The Art of Seduction	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Frustratingly Wonderful Read	The hero and heroine of Melanie George's latest historical romance, Dominick and Parris, were extremely likeable characters that were easy to root for.  Dominick and Parris were childhood friends who have basically loved each other since they were kids. For various reasons (misunderstandings, lies and secrets) they have been kept apart and at times it appears that they'll never get it right.  Often their biggest problems stemmed from omission - they didn't communicate properly so they made assumptions.  Very frustrating.  Finally, through misunderstandings, lies, and secrets, they finally get together but Ms. George really makes them work for that happy ending!  You won't regret picking this one up.	2002-11-14
US	50613591	R31R4YSUWBSD1J	080411952X	480474378	The Unsung Hero (Troubleshooters, Book 1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	My first Brockmann	This was my first experience with this author.  The book was well written, fast paced, and interesting.  I think the 3 different stories that were going on were a bit too much, in my opinion, and much of the focus was taken away from the leads, Tom and Kelly.  In my case the focus was really on the Joe/Charles friendship.  I felt really sorry for Tom's uncle Joe and I found that storyline too depressing.  It would have been nice if Ms. Brockman had given Joe some kind of happiness at some point in his life - even if it was to meet someone in his old age.  You felt such pity for a man who loved a woman who neither returned nor wanted his love but whom he pined for to the point of leading a celibate life for well over 50 years! Who exactly was he being true to??  Both Charles and Cybele (the woman involved in the WW2-era love triangle) manipulated/used Joe at one point as well so the strength of his feelings for them seemed almost misguided to me.  Charles Ashton was an undeserving friend and I couldn't understand why Joe would offer to &quot;go&quot; with him at the end.  I really wished the author would have given Joe Paoletti a more positive ending, I felt so sorry for him and what amounted to an unhappy and lonely life.  Joe's story stayed on my mind well after the end of the book, more so than any of the other characters.	2002-08-19
US	50613591	R1MI3KCUHUSN4P	0312979975	283452346	Fantasy Lover	Books	5	89	91	N	N	A Sensual Must Read!!	I devoured this book in record time and can't rave enough about it.  It was often amusing, at times poignant, sometimes intense, and always sensual.  I'm surprised my hands weren't singed with the extraordinarily steamy scenes!  Grace Alexander and Julian of Macedon were incredibly likeable characters and both had past hurts that needed to be overcome.  She is a sex therapist who doesn't much care for the sexual act (after a bad first experience) but has a desperate desire to find love.  Julian is a legendary warrior born of Aphrodite who has been cursed to be a love-slave for all eternity.  After being cursed since 149 B.C., he finally finds out that there is a way to break the curse but there is a catch.  Although there is a sizzling mutual attraction that is hard to deny, Grace refuses to treat Julian as a possession to be used physically, instead treating him with kindness and humanity.  Julian having numbed his emotions to avoid further pain finds it hard to resist Grace.  Physically she attracts him as no woman ever has, emotionally she lures him with a sensitivity he has never been shown throughout his painful life.  Ms. Kenyon has an enviable imagination and does a wonderful job bringing to life Greek mythology with well-known gods and goddesses and interesting tales of harsh Spartan life.  These are two characters that have you rooting throughout for them - from their first meeting to the very climactic conclusion. This book is a must read and has earned a spot in my keeper shelf.	2002-03-13
US	50613591	R3J34UGQT8986R	0440235960	631361507	Romancing Riley	Books	3	2	6	N	N	Disappointment	The premise behind the book sounded good and having enjoyed her last book I quickly picked up this Connie Lane.  I have to say that for me the character of Riley Callahan was easily the most difficult heroine that I was ever expected to cheer for.  Halfway through the book I didn't care anymore what happened to her, I had little if any sympathy for her.  All I kept thinking was what the heck does Zap see in Riley besides her blatant sex appeal?  Riley was crass, trashy, promiscuous, and arrogant.  When all was said and done I truly wished I had borrowed this from the library rather than spent the money to buy it.  If you want to read a good Connie Lane, read Reinventing Romeo.	2002-02-26
US	50613591	R2HXPWQB7RLU9R	0380785609	405731316	The Lover	Books	3	34	34	N	N	Weak heroine - Philandering hero	This book has a theme that in my opinion does not belong anywhere in a \\"romance\\" novel.  The keyword is romance and there is nothing romantic about a cheating hero.  Niall strays from Sabrina in a bid to deny his feelings for her and to prove she has no hold on him.  What made this more disturbing was that Sabrina caught him having sex with his former mistress and stood watching, then ran away crying.  You feel terrible for her.  Niall, after having sex with his mistress, feels a \\"faint twinge of guilt\\" and realizes his feelings for his wife weren't lessened by what he did so he tells his mistress he won't be visiting her again.  Then the two of them go on for a final farewell bout of sex.  I gather his twinge of guilt was so very faint that it was easy to overlook.  So here we are reading the details of Niall's adultery and reading how hurt Sabrina is, but then she goes on to sleep with him later that night and makes no mention to him that she saw him with another woman.  Personally, I like strong heroines and Sabrina became an annoying twit whenever in the vicinity of the philandering hero.  All he had to do was lay a hand on her and she became a mindless fool.  While its all well and good to read of strong desires between protagonists, its irritating when it makes the characters weak and foolish.  Even though Sabrina got a bit stronger towards the end and Niall redeems himself somewhat, I was still left with a bad taste in my mouth.	2002-02-10
US	50613591	R1J5KI4QVKOZIK	0380782340	229000740	Nobody's Baby But Mine	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Another Winner!	I enjoyed this book and I have to disagree with the person who said she didn't care for Cal in the first 100 pages because of how he acted. He seemed unforgiving toward Jane, this is true, but he was entitled to it in my opinion. He hadn't even wanted to sleep with her when he thought she was a hooker and she tricked him.  He was wronged and I didn't blame him for being bitter since his choices were taken away - no one likes that. I enjoyed how both characters developed thoughout the book because of their experiences together. She mellowed out, not being so uptight and dignified all the time. He finally had someone he can be himself with. I think Jane dealt with his overbearing issues quite well. Cal's mentality may have been a bit old-fashioned (though, how many old fashioned men would have let you hang out with their competitive enemies?) he was charming nonetheless. This book is not to be missed. After this one, read Dream a Little Dream, Cal's brother Gabe's book, which is another great story. Gotta love those Bonners.	2001-06-29
US	50613591	R3GOCCETANIB6W	1551666154	702007019	All Smiles (Mira)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Not the best in the series	I have to say I was very disappointed in this book.  More &amp; More (7 Mayfair Square series, 1) and 7B (3rd in series) were much, much better.  I disliked Count Etranger immensely. He was overbearing, arrogant, selfish, foul-tempered, and autocratic.  I found it incredibly hard to believe that Meg Smiles' had any difficulty in deciding if she should be Jean-Marc's mistress after what she did with him (and to him) in his bedroom the first day she met him.  I found that scene in poor taste since it was so soon in their acquaintance. Jean-Marc seemed to know how to say what Meg wanted to hear.  For a man who wanted to coax her into being his mistress (because she wasn't socially acceptable as a wife for him) he did a poor job, even shouting at her in front of people on one occasion.<br />Oddly enough I liked both characters much better in Meg's sister Sibyl's book, 7B.  Although Meg seemed a bit arrogant too there (must be hubby's influence). The interesting thing about All Smiles was its introduction of the Count's half-sister, Princess Desiree.  I am hoping she gets her own book - with Adam Chillworth as the hero of course!	2001-05-04
US	50613591	R27P3HR5HLE6D3	0440236525	867766067	The Highlander's Touch (Highlander, Book 3)	Books	5	27	30	N	Y	Karen Marie Moning gives us another incredible paranormal!	This is the story of an immortal Scottish warrior who is entrusted with the care of a flask by the Tuatha de Danaan (the Fairies).  Circenn Brodie puts a curse on it when it ends up out of his hands.  The curse will bring whomever touches the flask directly to him.  Adam Black, &quot;the blackest elf&quot; coerces an oath from him that he will kill the bearer of the flask.  <br />Lisa Stone is a hard working young woman, working two jobs for 5 years to support herself and her mother, who is dying of cancer.  Lisa's night job is cleaning a museum and this is where  she stumbles upon Circenn's cursed flask. Unsuspecting of the power behind, she touches the flask, captivated by its beauty.  Suddenly, the earth shakes beneath her and she feels like she is falling......<br />Six years after cursing the flask , Circenn is taking a bath when in pops Lisa - flask in hand.  He is sworn to kill whomever appears bearing the flask, but the oath given to Adam conflicts with one given to his mother, never to harm a woman.  Lisa and Circenn are drawn to each other and he eventually decides she is innocent of any knowledge behind the powerful flask.  In an attempt to protect her identity he introduces her to his knights and the Templar's in his group as Robert the Bruce's cousin.  When the Bruce himself shows up he goes along with Circenn's lie the furthers it by announcing a betrothal between the two.<br />Circenn has lived over 500 years and has seen many mortals that he cared for die which has left him bitter and unwilling to risk his heart. Centuries ago, to protect his heart from further losses, he set for himself  a number of rules which he was very strict in upholding.  He ends up breaking all these rules because of his love for Lisa.  She is torn between wanting to stay with Circenn in 1314 and going to her dying mother's side in present day Cincinnati.  All works out eventually and the book is a joy to read.  Lisa has had a hard time having to suppress her dreams while working hard to care for an ailing parent, she is certainly a heroine that can be related to.  Circenn Brodie truly embodies all you think a knight and hero should be.  They are a wonderful compliment to each other.	2001-02-03
US	50613591	R3K7G0BZD1QJW8	0821759892	38281965	The Scotsman's Lady	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The &quot;Brawlin' Scot&quot; and the bluestocking	What a wonderful read.  When reading the reviews for the follow up to this book, The Scotsman's Bride, this book is much maligned.  Pay them no heed, the book was wonderful.  Connor McKensie, Earl of Kinleith, need to gain back Glen Gray - a former property of his clan and a much disputed piece of land between the McKensies and their enemies the Forbes.  The problem is Glen Gray is currently in the possession of Davis St. John, Charlotte's father.  In order to earn funds he desperately needs to attempt to buy back the land he becomes a prizefighter.  Both Charlotte and Connor are attracted at first sight, and Connor thinks that cultivating their acquaintance can be good in the long run for his dealings with her father.  Charlotte is gentle, studious, naive, reserved and wholly against boxing.  Connor is bold, very physical, and actually enjoys his fighting.  Sounds like they have nothing in common.  Except each other.  They arrange to show each other opposite sights in London.  He shows her how the other half lives (foundling shelters, street fairs, etc.) while she takes him to see the sights and to literary groups.  <br />The story was great and you can actually see them falling in love.  The only part that I didn't care for was Connor's behavior during the championship fight.  I didn't understand Ms. Madl's reasoning behind Connor's actions, but aside from that the story was definitely worthwhile.	2001-01-25
US	50613591	R11MOI7K9ZDLY7	082176151X	5389827	The Scotsman's Bride (Zebra Splendor Historical Romances)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Not Impressed	I must say having read the predecessor, The Scotsman's Lady, I was looking forward to this book.  Unfortunately I was somewhat disappointed.  Cassie seemed shallow, gullible, and envious.  Ramsay was calculating, manipulative, and ruthless.  First he bribes her fiancee to jilt her, then he arranges for footpads to accost her so he could &quot;rescue&quot; her.  All this so he could scare her father into selling him a piece of land that once belonged to his family, and which is a bone of contention between his clan, the Forbes, and the McKensies, Cassie's twin's betrothed clan.<br />I found this book sadly lacking, Cassie seemed to have so much potential in her sister's book it was disappointing to see that she never reached it.	2001-01-25
US	50613591	R152YM2F25R2SV	0440235510	746311637	Whirlwind Wedding	Books	5	5	5	N	N	READ! READ! READ!	I finished this book in record time and thorougly enjoyed it.  The American heroine, Elizabeth, is refreshing, honest, socially awkward, and likeable.  She senses other's thoughts and emotions and also has visions. The hero, Austin, Duke of Bradford, is a strong hero who makes it incredibly easy to see why the heroine falls in love with him.  He is sensitive, caring, loyal, and sexy.  <br />Austin harbors a secret that he must keep to protect his family and their name but this leaves him with feelings of guilt.  Elizabeth senses his private pain and is determined to do all in her power to help him overcome his troubles.  He starts off doubtful of Elizabeth's visions and decides to &quot;keep an eye&quot; on her to see if she is trustworthy.  Although even he wonders if his diligent vigilance is due more to his attraction to Elizabeth than anything else.  Austin finds Elizabeth is indeed innocent of any scheming and when circumstances find them together all night he marries her within days and apparently without a qualm. <br />They are blissfully married for a while until Elizabeth has a vision which scares her into pushing Austin away.  Her reasons are for preventing Austin unbearable pain should her vision come true.<br />It's a wonderfully entertaining story with some incredibly humorous parts.  I laughed aloud at some parts, no doubt you will to!  I finished this book with a warm, fuzzy feeling inside and a smile on my face.	2000-11-06
US	50613591	R4LG6MAYJ481	038079456X	386673452	Devil's Bride (Cynster Novels)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Stephanie Laurens at her best	After having read all 5 of the published Bar Cynster series, I can honestly say this one is my favorite.  Mind you, this declaration does not come easily as Ms. Laurens is a truly gifted writer.  There was just something about Devil Cynster, Duke of St. Ives and head of the Cynster clan, and Honoria Wetherby who is determined to be an independent woman (but is currently working as a finishing governess).  He is sexy, protective, bold, and roguish.  She is intelligent, feisty, and stubborn.  As much as Devil is determined to seduce Honoria into marrying him, she is just as resolute in avoiding such an end.<br />The sparks between the two are sizzling and no one else could match Devil tit for tat that way Honoria Prudence does. As they search for who murdered Devil's cousin their relationship turns into one of passionate love.<br />Witty dialogue, sensual scenes, hunting for a murderer, danger and intrigue, and regular appearances by the Cynster clan makes for a wild ride - one you don't want to miss!	2000-10-13
US	50613591	R3M5T80T52APX0	0380809176	870536543	Meet Me at Midnight (With This Ring, Book 2)	Books	5	39	40	N	N	Another Keeper!	Another wonderful read by Suzanne Enoch.  The story is of Victoria &quot;Vixen&quot; Fontaine and Sinclair &quot;Sin&quot; Grafton.  Sin was a spy in France during the war and had developed a horribly black reputation in England so he could fit into the role he played while a spy there.<br />He comes home 2 years after his brother dies to claim the title as well as find his brothers killer.  This leads him to Vixen because he suspects a friend of hers, Viscount Marley.  Vixen is incredibly spirited and is considered fast.  She has no intention of marriage and all her actions point to her being what I term a &quot;female rake&quot;.  Sin and Vixen are attracted to each other and are caught embracing shortly after meeting each other in the garden of the ball they are at.  Vixen's father, at his wits end with his scandal-creating daughter, insists on marriage.<br />They do and its a wild ride til they fall in love from there.  Both are concerned with helping and protecting the other and will do what they must to ensure that.  Vixen is not your ordinary heroine and she is quite likeable and Sin is not only sexy but a decent, honorable man who is having a hard time meshing his former &quot;spy&quot; life with his new titled one.<br />Sin's spy friends are amusing, Alexandra and Lucien from Reforming a Rake appear, and Vixen's menagerie all make for a great time reading this!  Vixen's parrot, Mungo Park, is hysterical! I highly recommend this book!	2000-10-10
US	50613591	R1G3C1CIYDKDBE	0380802686	126377001	A Rogue's Embrace (Restoration Series, Book 2)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	What a disappointment!	After hearing many raves as to Ms. Moore's writing talent, I decided to purchase this book.  I wish I hadn't been so influenced by the comments of others.  This book was so slow going for me that I found myself skipping paragraphs at a time, something I've never done before.<br />I found the heroine irritating, argumentative, bossy, and razor tongued and lost sympathy for her early on.  Its hard to believe that a woman who supposedly lived in that day and age could be so sharp tongued and opinionated - even to the king.  While I liked the hero for the most part, he seemed wishy-washy at some points.  The weak willed sort who doesn't really seem to stand for anything or stick to any opinion.  He would be angry or annoyed at something one moment then in the bat of an eye he would become good-humored again and give in to the heroines whims.<br />If you really feel you must read this book, do yourself a favor and borrow it from the library first to see if you like it.  I wish I had left it on the bookstore shelf.	2000-10-10
US	50613591	R2DOA7QUQUXCZZ	0312962436	994782512	Nothing But Velvet	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Keeper!	Wow!  This is the first book by Kat Martin that I've read but I promise,  with talent like hers, it will not be my last.<br />This was the story of a  young man, Jason Sinclair, heir to the Carlyle dukedom, who is wrongly  accused of killing his father.  The real killer being his younger  half-brother, Avery.  After being sentenced to hang but luckily escaping  the noose and having a rough time of it for 5 years, he returns to England  after 8 years to avenge his father's murder and clear his name.<br />He meets  Velvet Moran, his brother's betrothed and abducts her.  They can't stop  thinking of each other even once they part and upon learning of Jason's  situation, Velvet offers her assistance.  The book is beautifully written  with poignant moments and sensual scenes.  Jason has suffered mightily for  a crime he never committed, betrayed by both his mistress and his brother,  and having lived through hell for the last 5 years, he is embittered but  Velvet gets through to him with her selfless love.<br />They make an amazing  couple and towards the end there is a roller coaster ride of emotions.  You  go from tears to a smile within paragraphs.  Lucien, Marquess Litchfield,  is an amazing character and if he doesn't have his own book - he DESERVES  it!	2000-08-22
US	50613591	R35615PRP7NBH1	0553575201	873499645	Lord Savage	Books	5	9	9	N	N	An Enjoyable Read!	I loved this book.  Ms. Coughlin creates wonderful stories that you cannot put down.  Ariel is a schoolteacher who must marry and while she is trying to work her wiles on the headmaster - whom she dislikes, by the way - she  is asked to take on the mission of turning Leon (aka Lord Savage) into a  proper English gentleman.  To say she was coerced would not be correct  because she felt compelled to help Leon from the moment she saw him  half-naked and locked in a room with a window for visitors to gawk at him.  She was worried that he'd be mistreated at the hands of someone else.   Little did she know that the &quot;savage&quot; was already tamed and just  waiting for the right time to pounce.  Ariel struggled to teach manners and  proper behavior to Leon all the while he pretended to not understand  English.  I don't believe Leon actually speaks for several of the first  chapters.  He is taken with Ariel's gentle ways and her kind attitude, not  self-serving or high handed as the Englishmen who captured him treated him.   He tried to fight his attraction to her by telling himself that she was  just using him for her own purpose as well.  She is taken with him as well,  but unfortunately needs to marry someone quickly and feels that she could  never aim for a marquis - savage or not.  Although he does propose to her,  she feels it lacked the emotion to back it up and she did not want to be  married to him if she loved him but he did not feel the same for her.  Leon  realizes, almost too late, that he is in love with Ariel and that his love  for her has turned him away from his original course of revenge.<br />The fact  that he was just as gentlemanly as the other Englishmen but was assumed to  be a savage because he came from the Pacific Islands (Hawaii, to be exact)  and was not raised in England just goes to show you the narrow minded and  egotism of the English nobility of that time, as it is often portrayed to  be.<br />Lord Savage was funny, sweet and pretty light-hearted, in my opinion.   Nothing too heavy or overly dramatic here.  Ms. Coughlin's Merely Married  is another must read.	2000-07-27
US	50613591	R1UDLHJDVS4WA1	0505522659	380256462	Knight of a Trillion Stars (Futuristic Romance)	Books	5	3	6	N	N	EXCELLENT, EXCELLENT, EXCELLENT	What an enjoyable book.  With some very funny parts and incredibly sexy scenes, Knight of a Trillion Stars draws the reader into a beautiful world filled with powerful mystics, sexy shape-changers and sparking Charl knights.  Deana is a Bostonian sci-fi writer who comes home to find a hot,  amethyst-eyed intergalactic Charl sitting on her couch.  Turns out he is to  be her mate, soul-mate to be precise.  Only Deana doesn't believe this  right away...This is the first of the Matrix  of Destiny series...I'd have to agree with the posts that said Lorgin and Deana  were not explored deeply enough and Rejar had a bit too much &quot;play  time&quot; in all 3 books.  I like Rejar as much as the next girl (who can  NOT like a Familiar?) but enough is enough! His appearances in the other 2  books - with the last one promising his role to only intensify - is really  getting tiresome. <br />Ms. Joy - I eagerly anticipate Traed's story next!	2000-07-20
US	50613591	R2L38QGY45BFYR	0505522659	380256462	Knight of a Trillion Stars (Futuristic Romance)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Enjoyable but a little disappointing	I have to say I really enjoyed this story.  It was funny, sexy, and adventurous all at once.  I read a few comments here that stated a certain arrogance in Lorgin.  To be honest, I felt all the male characters had a  bit of arrogance (try to tell me Rejar didn't with the way he was so  assured of his sexual prowess!) but since I am usually a historical romance  reader (and there is no one more arrogant than a Medeival warrior or  Scottish laird!) I thought Lorgin rather mild by comparison.<br />I was a  little disappointed by the character development of the protagonists.  I do  not feel that Deana and Lorgin were developed enough.  Especially Lorgin.   I loved the man, but I felt by the end of the book that I didn't know him  any better than at the beginning!  Most of their relationship seems to be  told from Deana's viewpoint so we don't get into Lorgin's mind too much,  which is a shame since you get the feeling that he's deeper than he lets  on.  I also thought there were too many secondary characters and because of  this too much focused was taken away from the leads for them.  I know way  too much about Rejar, Traed and his background, and Yaniff and his  meddling.<br />Since the author was already planning on giving Rejar his own  book she shouldn't have made him such an important part of his brother's -  I felt deprived that I didn't get to know Lorgin.  I read Rejar right after  this one and already knew so much about him before I opened the book.	2000-07-12
US	50613591	R1XNO1XXDIYCBS	0446604313	568706713	The Wish Club	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Nicely done love story	This book was a good twist on the much done star-crossed lovers thing.  The couple are two tortured souls, with Max being the more so with Kirsty willing to do anything, even become his mistress, just to be with him.<br />So  the story goes:  poor boy turned rich loves poor girl but his feelings of  obligation to the family that took him in won't allow them to be together  and her family's adamant that she &quot;know her place&quot; - a peasant -  and stay there.<br />The twist here, the missing journal, leads the story's  villains, Horace Hubble, Lady Hermoine and Countess Grabham to Max  Rossmara, believing that he is in possession of it.  Max loves his  childhood friend Kirsty Mercer, a crofter's daughter, but cannot marry her  due to pressure from his family (mostly his father, Struan the hero from  Cameron's &quot;Bride&quot;).<br />The story is good, although there are a few  disturbing sex scenes between the villains, regardless of their blood ties  - ICK! <br />Don't let that stop you from reading the book.	2000-06-28
US	50613591	R1H2CA2BPJPB4F	0449003884	137050959	The Bride Finder	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Terrific characters &amp; a very different storyline	This was an amazing story.  The hero, Anatole St. Leger, is clairvoyant, &quot;senses&quot; when people are near and has telekinetic powers.  That's one heckuva burden to bear and if that isn't enough he was emotionally  abused as a child.  His mother was terrified of him, even though she knew  that all St. Leger men had &quot;powers&quot;, and kept him at a distance.   His father was a weak man who caved in to his wife's wishes.  Anatole was  left orphaned at 15.  His visions usually foretell grim occurrences, which  has led Anatole to lead a secluded life as he is often feared.  Madeline,  is above all else - reasonable and sensible.  She marries Anatole by proxy  through the Bride Finder.  Fitzleger is an elderly relative of Anatole's  who comes from a long line of bride finders for the St. Leger family.  He  has his work cut out for him as it seems that Madeline and Anatole are too  different to be fated for each other.  They could never be in love with  each other and be happy.<br />How wrong you'd be to think that.  This book is  filled with fanciful &quot;magic&quot;, romantic yearnings, funny  otherworldy presences (wait until you meet the ghost of the notorious  Prospero St. Leger! ) and a couple who are destined to be soulmates.<br />Its  a wonderful book, one you won't regret reading.  Ms. Carroll is a wonder  herself.	2000-06-19
US	50613591	RHAIH08ES27OW	0380810719	80244455	The Abduction of Julia	Books	3	10	13	N	N	Good writing skill but weak characters	Ms. Hawkins' has an amazing capacity for detail as well as excellent writing abilities.  Her writing flows smoothly and she pays special attention to each character's feelings which is good in that it allows you  to understand them.<br />Unfortunately, I had an extremely difficult time in  understanding or relating to the character of Julia.  I found her to be the  most vexing, tiresome, predictable, inflexible, priggish, and selfish - yes  selfish - character I have ever had the misfortune to read about.  She is  this supposed reformer who has loved Alec Maclean for years.  She has an  odd way of showing her love, I'll tell you that.  She keeps claiming that  he is unresponsive to her overtures of &quot;reforming&quot; him for the  better.  Odd that I had not noticed her putting ANY effort into reforming  him.  She seemed content to let him flounder on his own rather than make a  move to draw him.  Ever  hear of catching more bees with honey, Julia dear?   She was an incessant whiner.  Always complaining about the plight of her  damn women's society as if it was Alec's fault for all the problems they  suffer.  And she was a cold fish who always threw his cousin - whom he is  estranged from - in his face.  Yet she LOVES him.  I found that hard to  believe.<br />Alec, I believe, for all his faults did not deserve to be  saddled with her.  Sorry, but that's my opinion.  He was an overall good  guy.   It also irks me that Nick came out smelling like roses in the end  after all the nasty things he'd done.  I also found it hard to believe that  he was estranged from his cousin for such a stupid reason.<br />Aside from  Alec the only other redeeming character was Lucien, whom I loved.  I am  anxiously awaiting his book which is due out January 2001.  Hopefully his  heroine will be easier to like.	2000-06-14
US	50613591	R2TJXQBP0DGT8L	0515107662	135529800	The Sherbrooke Bride (Bride Series, Book 1)	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Coulter's Best Book - which isn't saying much	This was by far the best Catherine Coulter book I have read to date. Thankfully, there were no rape sequences which I had begun to think was a Coulter staple. Alexandra was a delight to read. She deserved the title of heroine for simply dealing with all the idiots in her life, her husband included at first in my opinion. She was strong without coming across as a pain. She was funny, intelligent, and courageous.<br />What annoyed me throughout the book though was the incredible superficiality of so many of the characters. If one more person gushed over Melissande I was going to vomit. There is no human alive who could possibly be so attractive and shallow at the same time. I'm glad Tony brought her around but people's reaction to her irritated me, mostly Douglas'. And I hated how disparaging everyone was to Alex and some of the comments made to her - especially by Douglas - were horrid. They made her sound like a dishrag which she did not appear to be.<br />All in all, a pretty decent read. Even though I think Alex should have made Douglas suffer a little for his earlier treatment of her.<br />Coulter's best as well as the best of the Brides series, in my opinion.	2000-06-14
US	50613591	R36GJZD92AKBBV	0061098728	839929077	A Knight to Remember	Books	5	29	34	N	N	I couldn't put this one down!	I usually enjoy Christina Dodd's books and this one was no exception.  Edlyn is a twice-widowed woman who is living in poverty at an abbey as an herbalist.  She is strong, compassionate and disillusioned, the only thing she still owns is her pride.  Hugh, is a strong, honorable and brave knight  commanding the kings royal warriors.  Edlyn and Hugh recognize each other  from their childhood days and Edlyn had thought she had long since buried  her tender feelings for Hugh.  Their reunion, though, is not a particularly  loving one. Hugh was wounded in battle and lays close to dying, Edlyn is  coerced into tending him by his manservant.  Later, Edlyn find out that  Hugh is the lord who captured her second husband and brought him to  justice.  Her late husband was executed for treason to the crown and her  and her kids were kicked out of their home, destitute.  Hugh is a bit  arrogant and chauvinistic - in a lovable kind of way - but he does comes  around later on in the book and sees the error of his ways.  They make for  a strong couple who complement each other.  I loved that Edlyn's character  was intelligent and proud, she came up with great ways to save them from  trouble.  She may not have much in the way of material things but she more  than makes up for in character.  No sappy, whiney heroine here.  I think  you'll appreciate that for a change - I did.	2000-04-24
US	50613591	R2WF18OF2OZMLX	0380809168	580833959	Reforming a Rake (With This Ring, Book 1)	Books	5	6	9	N	N	TERRIFIC - A MUST READ!	This is the first book of Suzanne Enoch's that I've read and I was impressed.  The book captures your attention from the first page and doesn't let go until the last.  The characters are strong and likeable.   Alexandra was intelligent, independent and proud - although a bit dogged  when it came to accepting Lucien's feelings for her.  Lucien was  determined, devoted and unselfish - once he admitted his love for her.  He  was an amazing hero.  He started out as a cynical, unrepentant seducer and  turned into a man on a mission.  His mission was to remove all obstacles in  Alexandra's path to happiness - preferably one that leads to him.  He  proves his love to her in the end, a love that took her way to long to  figure out on her own if you ask me.  This book is definitely worth every  penny and you won't regret reading it.	2000-04-19
US	50613591	R32QKT1Y1IFFHQ	038078145X	15276320	Stranger in My Arms	Books	3	4	6	N	N	I was disappointed	Overall, the book wasn't the worst I could read.  Hunter was an amazing character - strong, sensitive, passionate, loving.  Lara, on the other hand, struck me as cold.  Granted the &quot;old&quot; Hunter wasn't a prize  by any stretch of the imagination but she didn't exactly appear to have  been the model wife either.  Especially if the way she dealt with the new  and improved Hunter was any indication.  She seemed to be a hypocrite to  me.  So caring, loving and devoted to everyone else but she barely spared  any feeling for her husband.  If her husband was as big a jerk as she had  thought then the differences in his demeanor were obvious from the start.   He said he wanted things to be different and wanted another chance.  She  certainly thought everyone else deserved one - why not the man she married?   The book was also unrealistic.  Nobody, unless you're identical twins,  could so much resemble someone else - looks and mannerisms.  Plus to know  so many  intimate details about Lara's body (birthmarks and other markings)  was difficult to believe from a man like the &quot;old&quot; Hunter who  obviously had paid little attention to his wife's body.  The  &quot;new&quot; Hunter was incredible though.  He was so accommodating it  was laughable considering the time the book was set in.  And the fact that  she actually withheld his &quot;husbandly rights&quot; in those days was  nothing short of heroic since at that time she technically HAD no rights  and nothing of her own to withhold.  Men owned their wives then, disturbing  as the thought is now.<br />Its my opinion that you'd be better off saving  your money or using it to purchase on of Ms. Kleypas' other books, might I  recommend Someone to Watch Over Me or Kingdom of Dreams?  If you are  determined to read this - do yourself a favor and borrow it from the  library.	2000-04-19
US	50613591	R7ENG8J49WT7Y	0440234816	58202636	To Tame a Highland Warrior (Highlander, Book 2)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Follow up is better than first	I read Beyond the Highland Mist (which was Adrienne's and Hawk's story) and that was great.  But Grimm's book was awesome!  I loved the depth of character that was given to both Grimm and Jillian when they were dealing  with their emotions.  It took them long enough to finally get together but  Grimm, as always, does it in his own time and his own style.  I loved him  when he was in Beyond the Highland Mist and I knew his story would be good.   He was very lovable (is that un-manly? ) for a berserker!<br />I'm glad Karen  Moning didn't make him out to be as wild as you read that the true  bersekers were.  They sounded positively untameable.  Terrific book, a  definite must read.	2000-04-12
US	50613591	R31N3PHW0RC3BK	0440209102	246535033	The Rose of Blacksword	Books	5	17	17	N	N	A definite must read...	A great story with great characters.  After Lady Rosalynde's escort party is attacked she goes in search of help.  This is when she sees  Aric and in exchange for his escort home she marries him thereby saving him from the  &quot;hangman's noose&quot;.  Aric is hellbent on revenge against the man  who brought him to such a pass and just as determined to keep Rose as his  wife, despite her reluctance.  This is a wonderful story that you are sure  to enjoy.	2000-03-30
US	50613591	R3NMA1K4HGSIC	0380809273	777912243	The Dangerous Lord (Lord Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	5	75	78	N	N	Great Read - From Cover to Cover!	What a great book!  My friend lent me this book and while I had never read any of Ms. Jeffries work before, I figured why not?  Why not indeed!  What a talent she is and what a wonderfully funny,  sexy and intricate tale she  has woven.  The two main characters, Ian and Felicity, are great together.   What starts out as a battle of wills between the mysterious &quot;Lord  X&quot; and her most recent target of gossip, Viscount St. Clair,  soon  turns into the Viscount's cautious courting of the reluctant gossip  columnist.  In turn Felicity (aka Lord X) wants to know all the secrets of  Ian's past, most importantly of the 6 years he's been mysteriously missing  from England that no one seems to know the details of.  Ian is determined  to keep his secrets AND have Felicity as his wife and the courtship is an  interesting one - to say the least!  I also liked the fact that Felicity  was a strong female character and Ian wasn't your typical chauvinistic and  egotistical male that you tend to find is some romances.	2000-03-27
US	50613591	R293QISU0FAA4R	0451408349	533728762	Highland Jewel	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	What A Wonderful Love!	I loved this story.  I had never heard of Terri Lynn Wilhelm when I bought this book.  I was interested in buying it when I saw that it was set in the Scottish Highlands, which is my favorite story setting.  I took a  chance...and was not disappointed.  Ms. Wilhelm has an extraordinary talent  for storytelling, her stories flow quickly and easily and her detailed  descriptions of everything from the setting to the characters' emotions  really allow you to get caught up in the story.  The 2 lead characters are  both strong, brave, honorable and currently in trouble.  Hero was once  wealthy, until her mother remarried.  Now she finds herself lost and alone   in the wild higlands of Scotland searching for her aunt after having  escaped the poverty of London, not to mention a pair of lecherous hands.   She meets up with Ciaran, who is escaping a band of blood thirsty  Highlanders bent on seeing him die.  Their paths cross.  Hero asks for his  help in searching for her elusive aunt and Ciaran finds he must help her  for fear that she goes about it alone - again.  In the process of Ciaran's  helping Hero find her aunt, they find themselves falling in love with each  other.  Ciaran does not want this to happen as he feels his days are  numbered with the MacDubhair clan's slaughtering his whole clan and him  being the sole survivor and hunted by them.  Once Hero gets past her  initial fears she decides she wants him.  To keep.  So when Ciaran does the  heart-breakingly noble thing by not touching her and leaving her behind so  he can go off and basically get himself killed - she does not allow it.<br />I  won't tell you any more of the story but its a definite must read.  The  emotions the characters feel are very clearly described throughout.	2000-03-20
US	50613591	R1MXQGYRU688TD	0821764772	737662590	The Prize	Books	5	2	2	N	N	This book IS a Prize!	I enjoyed this book so much I finished it in less than 2 days.  I couldn't put it down!  I'll relay the main idea behind the story - I don't want to ruin it but I see there is no description of the story here.  The lead  characters are Leith and Adrianna.  He is laird of the Campbell clan and  she is the daughter of a late English earl who has been away in a convent  for 12 years and wants to be a nun.  Leith wants vengence on Adrianna's  father for a past wrong but finds out that the old Earl is dead and  Adrianna's lowlife brother is in his place, so Leith spirits Adrianna away  with him to Scotland instead - as his prize.  From there on the book only  gets better - from first page to last!  Adrianna is kind, sweet tempered,  generous, compassionate and has skills as a healer.  Leith is strong,  brave, honorable, passionate and loyal.  They will both steal your heart.	2000-03-13
US	50613591	R3SKWY3RPD6B9R	0380785749	322415844	Happily Ever After (An Avon Romantic Treasure)	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	Tanya Crosby's Writing At Her Best	I absolutely LOVED this book.  I could not put it down.  Jack Macauley was a great character as was his friend, Kell.  I'm hoping Kell gets his own book soon :)  Sophie was also great!  I loved the way she was traveling all  that way and took such a risk, considering how she was bred and that she  was alone, just to tell her boyfriend off!  She finally stuck up for  herself and it was Amazing!  The chemistry between Jack and Sophie is  explosive and this was, by far, Tanya Ann Crosby's most sensual work I've  ever read.  The love that they felt for each other was impressive.  The way  Jack was going to such extremes to not confuse or hurt her.  It was a  wonderful story and I recommend reading it.	2000-03-06
US	50613591	R34VZCGWMAG6GV	0553575007	826575056	Touch of Enchantment	Books	3	12	16	N	Y	I Loved Colin, but...	I've read many books of Teresa Medeiros' and overall I enjoyed this one no less than the others.  I absolutely loved the character of Colin though, who truly epitomized the role of &quot;knight in shining armor&quot;.  Brisbane made a great evil counterpart to Colin's good guy.  Colin seemed  almost too good to be true - he didn't lie to her, was unable to go through  with killing her, was extremely gallant to her, had held strong for 6  celibate years despite obvious tempations in Egypt and actually ASKED for  her permission to make love to her!   I loved the way he proposed to her  too.  Very romantic.<br />Unfortunately, I have to agree with some of the  other reviews when it comes to the character of Tabitha.  At times I found  her a irritating and dense.  She had the amulet with her most of the time  and since she openly admitted to being a witch in the 13th Century did she  really have anything to lose by wishing for some helpful things?  She could  have wished herself home as soon as she met Colin and realized it wasn't  something her mother conjured up for her.  Also, she supposedly wasn't sure  if her parents were missing or dead, she never even considered going home  to possibly help them.  In her own words her parents loved her in every  way, what an ungrateful child.  It seemed to make sense to Tabitha for her  to stay in a dungeon with a stranger she thought was angry with her in the  13th century waiting to be executed instead of wishing herself home to find  out if her parents were okay!  That was annoying since I had already read  her parent's story and Tabitha struck me as a selfish brat whining about  how she never fit in, how her parents being in love made her feel left out  and how her witchcraft always got her in trouble.  For someone with a  &quot;lofty IQ&quot; it never occurred to her to actually accept the fact  she was a witch and work on controlling it!  Please.<br />I loved Breath of  Magic as well, Tabitha's parents' story.  So, it bothered me that Ms.  Medeiros decided to make Tristan and Arian turn into rich snobs (the whole  McDonalds and five star hotel comments bugged me), both seemingly to forget  where they came from.  But it was nice to see Tristan came to the rescue  for his daughter at the end.  I found it disturbing that Ms. Medeiros made,  in both books, made the woman change where she came from to be with the  man.  In 2020 I guess she thinks women will still have to be the ones to  give in.  Granted Arian didn't have anything to go back to in her book, but  Tabitha?  A 21st century woman, spoiled and filthy rich at that, without  electricity and modern medicine?  Too bad Tristan didn't have another child  to inherit everything he worked so hard to for, his business and his  billions - Which I also thought was odd, all that love sprouted only 1  child.	2000-03-01
US	50613591	R1Q372C0CCPCEL	0380786095	26917620	One Moonlit Night	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Love Really Can Overcome Anything	Okay, I'm going to become sappy, so anyone who can't stand that - scroll past my review now!  :)   I thought this book was incredible.  No other  words can express it.  I finished reading this book this morning on my  train ride to work.  Dominic was an amazing character.  He had an unhappy  childhood, he was the unwanted bastard of a selfish English earl who was  only legitimitized because the earl had no other heir.  Dominic was half  Gypsy, half English and was not accepted by either.  Too Gypsy for the  English, too English for the Gypsies.  Olivia was sweet, devoted,  even-tempered and kind.  Her mother had long since died, her father had  been murdered by a gypsy and her sister was blind, therefore Olivia was the  sole provider for the two of them.  She was hesitant to trust in Dominic,  he was half Gypsy afterall.  Dominic's charms soon won her over.  Her  sister's story of blindness and overcoming her own trepidation where  Gypsies are concerned made a great side story.  Dominic was by far my  favorite character in the book though.  Emotionally, he had suffered  greatly in his life and yet he was not jaded or bitter and did not seek to  condemn all people for his ill treatment.  Although no one treated him  kindly, he never sunk to their level.  He had true class and he just  strenghtened my opinion of love overcoming hate. Strength of the heart  overcoming ignorance of the mind.  It was amazing how all the characters  eventually gave up their groundless hatred against a whole race of people  because of these 2 characters.  Proving that prejudice is only skin deep -  no one is born hating and you must just open your mind and heart in order  to see that.  <br />A wonderful book and I recommend it to anyone who wants to  believe in love and fate and the inherent goodness in others.  Enjoy!	2000-02-16
US	50613591	R2ON8AXHPJ5YLI	0671003364	792256877	Ransom	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Once you start, you can't put it down!	What an amazing book!  Gillian, the sweet heroine, and her love Brodick, the strong Highland warrior with a ruthless reputation, make an incredible couple.  From the beginning there is chemistry between these two and unlike most historic novels, we don't spend the whole book with them at odds until  the final chapter.  It flows so easily that I finished the book within 2  days because it was so hard for me to put down!  The characters are so  extremely likeable and inspired that this book makes even the hardest of  hearts yearn to find and experience the love that these two have.   Wonderful reading and would make a great Christmas present. <br />Ms. Garwood  is easily one of the finest historical romance novelists around.  I have  read so many of her books and I have enjoyed each and every one.  I  particularly enjoyed the fact that this was set in the Scotland Highlands,  which I love.	1999-12-07
