US	50621794	RNVHBTJN1B7UE	0060763957	967480762	Michael Moore Is a Big Fat Stupid White Man	Books	5	26	36	N	N	Perfectly timed!	Just think: Only a few years ago, Mike Moore was nothing more than a pimple on the ass of American political discourse, the left wing version, perhaps, of G Gordon Liddy, which is to say, a raving (albeit sometimes entertaining) nutjob who appealed primarily to the kook fringes of American society. But today, with several best selling books and hit movies to his credit, he has somehow been \\"elevated\\" to being one of the premier spokesmen for the Democratic Party. This would be downright scary were it not so utterly absurd! <br /> <br />This book came along at just the right time to burst the balloon of this vastly overinflated, self promoting egomaniac. It spells out in detail Moore's none too savory past, the way he's either quit or been fired from nearly every job he's held, including those with long established leftist icons like Mother Jones magazine and Ralph Nader, and his long history both of distorting facts and of treating old colleagues like dirt. Moore comes off as a thoroughly unlikeable person, a man consumed by the twin devils of megalomania (as evidenced in his awful speech at the 2003 Oscars) and paranoia, which he displays by accusing his critics of being part of a series of plots to undermine his success.  <br /> <br />Some might complain that this book was too hastily thrown together, and that the writing is too breezy and lacking in \\"authority\\" to be taken seriously. I disagree. Moore no doubt sees himself as some colossus within the current day Leftist movement, and perhaps his followers actually see him this way. But in truth he is a moral and intellectual midget masquerading as a giant. This short, but well crafted expose, shows us the real Michael Moore, a classic case of a nonentity who is hopefully coming close to using up the last of his proverbial \\"15 Minutes\\".	2004-10-03
US	50621794	R2J52HBX8W36CQ	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	2	8	27	N	N	Whines, and the whining whiners who whine them	This book, when reduced to its most elemental, is basically a long-winded temper tantrum aimed at Franken's political opponents. \\"Whaah! Boo hoo!\\" he seems to be saying, \\"It's not FAIR that Bush is in the White House! How DARE people like Sean Hannity, Bill O'Reilly and Ann Coulter be so successful?!?\\" Speaking of the latter, he seems to be especially resentful of her success, which is ironic inasmuch as she does basically the same thing he does, namely, mix political commentary with humor and venom. Perhaps he's jealous and senses that she's actually better at it? Who knows, and ultimately, who cares? Like Coulter, Franken is basically preaching to the choir, hence neither really makes any effort to be either fair-minded or intellectually honest. The end result is that these \\"Attack\\" books serve mainly to whip up a froth of indignation and anger in their readers and thus contribute, not enlightenment but further polarization.<br />So the question is, does the continuing popularity of the attack books mean that Americans really are at each others' throats politically? Or does it mean that Americans don't really take this stuff very seriously, and view it primarily as entertainment? Personally, I'm hoping it's the latter. The problem with this book, however, is that it's hard to tell where the \\"serious\\" content ends and the funny stuff begins. In the intro, for example, he claims that his \\"Facts\\" (assembled by the modestly named \\"Team Franken\\") are all true, and that anything that isn't is obviously intended as satire. Problem is, it ain't so obvious. At one point Franken allegedly challenges a conservative magazine editor to a fistfight. Now, for Franken's sake, I'm HOPING that's satire, since the notion of a grown man in his early 50's with a wife and kids actually picking a fight with someone over a mere political dispute strikes me as downright bizarre. There's another scene where he supposedly met Barbara Bush on a plane, then got her mad at him by making fun ofGeorge W's looks and mannerisms. This, he opines, is \\"proof\\" that the former First Lady is the Queen of Mean. Well, putting aside the question of \\"Was it real, or was it Memorex?\\", what was he expecting? I'm sure Queen Elizabeth would have responded in exactly the same way had some obnoxious twit dared to make Dumbo ear gestures when discussing Prince Charles in her presence. If the Barbara Bush encounter on the plane really happened and isn't just another of Franken's jokes, then all I can say is \\"Bravo!\\" to Mrs. Bush for not suffering fools gladly. Rather than whine about her dismissive treatment, he should realize he was just given a free lesson in manners and in comporting oneself with class and dignity. We should all have parents who display that level of loyalty and family unity.<br />As for the rest of the book, well, if you're a liberal, you'll at least get a few laughs. And that's about it. If you think this book in any way actually contributes to serious discourse, then you've spent much too long with your head up your posterior. However, unlike the plethora of fools who've been peppering their opponents' books with cheap one star ratings in a hope to, I suppose, dampen sales, I'll at least give Franken his due. He's a good entertainer, and that's exactly what books like this are for, no more, no less.	2003-11-15
US	50621794	REC86ZX5FFS2	1400050308	820650568	Treason: Liberal Treachery from the Cold War to the War on Terrorism	Books	3	13	19	N	N	She has a point, but ...	Reading this book can be maddening at times because, had Ann Coulter addressed her topic with more style, sophistication, and most especially, restraint, she could have produced a masterpiece. Instead, it will simply join company with all the other \\"Attack\\" books out there, books that enjoy a brief burst of popularity and notoriety, and then are simply forgotten within a couple years or so. This is too bad since Coulter is clearly a smart woman and a skilled writer, but, much like her opponents on the Left, she cannot resist the temptation to indulge in rhetorical overkill. Her problem (as with all the other attack books) is the only ones she's likely to convince are people who already agree with her.<br />Unlike her previous effort \\"Slander\\", which was an entertaining but essentially silly book, this is about a very serious subject that's worth looking at from a historical perspective. The Cold War may be over, but the attitudes and divisions from that era remain. The same ideological clash that produced the Whittaker Chambers versus Alger Hiss battle was present during the Clinton versus Starr impeachment fight. And it's only natural to enquire as to why this divide exists and where it came from. Unfortunately, Coulter really isn't up to the task. True, as she points out, there were genuine traitors who were actively spying for the USSR, and there was also a larger ring of sympathizers out there essentially aiding and abetting them. These facts, despite decades of evasion and even outright denial from the Left, cannot really be disputed any more. Coulter's problem is that she starts from this premise and then concludes that all liberals are essentially traitors. This kind of sweeping denunciation, far from buttressing her case (at least among intelligent and serious minded people) greatly undermines it instead. Ditto for the catty humor. Coulter can be genuinely funny, especially in her zesty attacks on dim bulb celebrities, but it also undermines her larger pointin the sense that, if treason is such a serious subject, why then is she constantly making jokes and wisecracks? How can she distinguish herself from left wing attack book writers like Mike Moore and Al Franken who do essentially the same thing, namely, bash their political opponents over the head with a rhetorical club, then weasel out by saying \\"It's just a joke, it's satire, entertainment\\"? <br />And that, really, is the problem here. Unlike the aforementioned two clowns, Coulter is actually capable of considerable depth and perception. In her first chapter, she quotes liberally from a genuine American patriot, Whittaker Chambers, including the devastating quote for which he is justly famous, the one that states that Communism is \\"The vision of Man without God\\". She quotes from de Tocqueville praising the way that, in contrast to Europe, Americans had succeeded in creating a society in which religious faith and political liberty could both flourish. Coulter, had she played her cards differently, could have written a strong and cogent defense of prudent conservatism, consisting of patriotism, respect for America's core values, and strong religious faith, as being the best course for this country to pursue, and combined that with an intelligent critique of the forces of secularism that seem to be standing in the way. But she did not. Instead, it's basically a melee of unrestrained liberal bashing, which unfortunately is unlikely to persuade fair-minded people of anything. She picks the most extreme attitudes and behavior from selected people on the Left, and then glibly presumes to paint them as being characteristic of liberals everywhere, which is, of course, ridiculous. And she also conveniently neglects to mention that the Right had its share of kooks and villains as well, perhaps most notable being the almost rabidly insane John Birch Society. This book will ultimately be just one more addition to the ever expanding collection of attack books that serve primarily to further polarize, as opposed to enlighten, political debate in this country. Which is a shame, because it could have been so much more.	2003-11-14
US	50621794	R1WELRGXK0UZ92	0345423496	284653366	3001: The Final Odyssey	Books	2	25	35	N	N	Clarke shoulda quit  with his third	This book starts out badly, and then gets worse. Clarke, not content to rest on his laurels after completing his original 2001 trilogy, decided to make a great leap forward a full 1,000 years to show us his vision of what our human society would look like at the start of the Fourth Millennium. This he does by resurrecting astronaut Frank Poole, previously notable mainly for being HAL 9000's first victim, after he'd been found adrift in deep space, and then plopping him right smack in the world of 3001 and letting us see it through Poole's eyes. This is, at best, the stuff of cheap pulp science fiction, and a man of Clarke's scientific knowledge should have been embarrassed to use it as a key plot device. This is, after all, the man who gave us the notion of putting astronauts in hibernation for long duration space flight, an idea that, though technically challenging, at least sounded reasonably plausible. In contrast, re-animating a corpse that's been dead for a thousand years is just absurd. <br />Anyway, it starts from there, and quickly heads downhill. A common critique of science fiction is that it's often heavy on the science and light on the fiction. Putting aside Poole's magical, er, `revival', the rest of the science is quite good. And it is also the only part of the book that is genuinely imaginative and interesting. Clarke's 3001 does sound eminently plausible, there have been great strides in space travel, for instance, and yet there's still been no star voyages, no discovery of \\"hyper drive\\" or \\"warp drive\\", for instance. But once he veers away from his vision of futuristic science and technology, the train starts to leave the rails. There is little sense that people had advanced artistically, culturally, morally, spiritually or in any other way besides technologically. True, there's less crime, for example, but that's only because every person is outfitted with an electronic device that plugs directly into their brain, thus allowing potential criminalsand other forms of deviancy to be monitored and dealt with. As a result of developments such as these, future life is generally safe, healthy, and pleasurable, but also generally bland and seemingly lacking in any higher sense of purpose. It is, not coincidentally, also lacking in religious faith and values, which also makes for the most controversial (and, in my opinion, poorly handled) part of the book.<br />Clarke isn't exactly subtle in his views on the subject. Early on, Poole finds that whenever he utters the word \\"God\\", even as a mere figure of speech, people react as if he's just used a dirty word. It seems in the future, religion, while apparently not outright illegal, appears to be strongly discouraged. Clarke dredges up the usual arguments, most notably the case of the Inquisition, to try to portray all religion as a sham at best, and a form of insanity at worst, but ultimately they fall flat. This is probably due to the fact that Clarke seems to have made only the shallowest and most rudimentary efforts to understand the subject of religion, having, for instance, one character pompously proclaim that religion was simply the byproduct of fear, it obviously never occurring to him that it might also be the byproduct of hope, even love. And, finally, it is interesting to note that, while the 2001 series makes for an entertaining creation myth to explain mankind's evolution from ape to thinking human, there's a moral to be derived from the fact that the mysterious monolith brings us only intelligence, but not wisdom or virtue.	2003-10-02
US	50621794	R1TQDEUDSSNETM	0451527100	201213691	The Communist Manifesto (Signet Classics)	Books	1	19	66	N	N	How could one little book spawn so much evil?	That is the question historians looking back on the 20th century will have to answer. This book, along with \\"Mein Kampf\\", spawned ideas that were ultimately responsible for the murder of millions of innocent people, yet we still have no clear cut explanation as to why. After all, communism, according to its supporters, was supposed to be the \\"perfect\\" way to organize society, and yet, everywhere it was tried, the result was tyranny, oppression, and misery. How could this be?<br />There are numerous explanations, perhaps the most popular being the notion that it simply didn't conform to human nature. People aspire to achievement and success, these critics claim, and communism squashes these desires in its quest to create a society of social and material equality. But I think it goes much deeper. One of the most obvious flaws of communism was its arrogance. It basically took everything that had gone into Western Civilization, dating back to Athens and Jerusalem, and tossed it in the trash bin. Democracy, individual liberty, human dignity, belief in God, it all had to go. The Communist Party was all that mattered; it set itself up as the supreme authority, and demanded absolute loyalty from its subjects. Communism has been called an economic system, but in truth it was much more. It was, in fact, a religion in every aspect except belief in a Supreme Being, a belief system that was, in essence, based on the worship of itself. <br />And that, at the core, was its fatal flaw. From a religious point of view, it was nothing less than a form of blasphemy, with Marx and Engels shaking their puny fists at God as if to say \\"We don't need You. We don't want You. We can create our paradise here on Earth without You!\\" Is it any wonder then, that communism worked out as badly as it did? That, far from creating heaven on Earth, it created hell instead?	2003-10-02
US	50621794	R1N0F2X1GDR3VK	0740706721	470651737	I Hated, Hated, Hated This Movie	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Hit and miss	This book, as the title makes clear, is a compilation of reviews for some really bad movies. The only problem is, Roger Ebert isn't the best man for this particular job. If anything, he's simply too \\"good\\" of a critic to really delve into the joy of trashing some of the worst movies of all time. He's like a distinguished restaurant critic who's been asked to review fast food. In short, Roger's too \\"Old School\\", too well trained in the art of \\"conventional\\" criticism and of seeking out true greatness in films to really appreciate that sometimes there is genius in garbage. <br />That said, he does get in his shots, especially at movies he finds morally repugnant. I've never seen \\"I Spit On Your Grave\\", but to hear him relate how a certain middle aged pervert actually cheered on multiple rape scenes in the theater while he watched it is to get a grasp on the potential for movies to feed diseased and sick minds. His review of \\"Caligula\\" is almost perfect, it ends with a quote from a a woman who stated simply that it was \\"The worst piece of s*** I've ever seen\\". And finally, in his review of \\"The Doom Generation\\" he quite rightly attacks the whole \\"Detatched Irony\\" attitude of modern filmmakers who give us scenes of nihilistic violence then try to pretend they're \\"above\\" their sordid material. There are plenty of movies like this, movies like \\"Se7en\\" and \\"Fight Club\\" that, once you get past their pretentiousness, are little more than sadism and brutality artfully rendered. <br />But ultimately, the problem is that Ebert is just the wrong person to undertake this enerprise. He just has too much respect for truly good movies to invest a whole lot of effort and thought in reviewing the bad ones. And most of these movies are eminently forgettable anyway. A project like this is more suited to the likes of Joe Bob Briggs, a man who revels in low budget trash with a heart, movies like \\"The Texas Chainsaw Massacre\\", and who can reach an audience that loves \\"movies so bad, they're good\\". Ebert couldn't understand why a movie like \\"Death Race 2000\\" could become a cult favorite. It's sadistically violent, and stupid. Joe Bob (and millions of fans worldwide) would agree, but also see the movie as being the live action version of the old Bugs Bunny and Roadrunner cartoons. In short, it's so stupid it's brilliant. It's that very spirit that Ebert fails to grasp in his review of history's most notoriously bad movies.	2003-06-12
US	50621794	R31SM2K695M635	0671004107	860650224	Contact	Books	3	12	18	N	N	See the movie instead	Carl Sagan made a name for himself by making science, and astronomy in particular, more accessible to the general public through a series of books and, of course, his TV show, \\"Cosmos\\". In the mid eighties he decided to try his hand at science fiction, the end result being this book. His goal was to speculate on what a possible contact (hence the title) would be like from intelligent life elsewhere in the universe, and to the extent he sticks with this theme, his book makes for a highly engaging read. Unfortunately, he just couldn't resist going off on a number of different tangents, which is really too bad, since what he mostly does is reveal his own ignorance and prejudices as opposed to offering up enlightenment.<br />What's best about this book? Well, as to be expected, the actual core story, which is, of course, about what happens when a project designed to detect signals from alien civilizations actually makes contact with one. Sagan, who in real life was a passionate supporter of the SETI (Search for Extra Terrestrial Intelligence) Project, brings his expertise to bear, and the result is a thoughtful and imaginative take of how just such an encounter might occur. As the story begins, we are introduced to Dr. Eleanor Arroway, an expert on radio astronomy, as she and her team intercept and start to decode what is clearly a message from outer space. In due time the signal, which has multiple layers woven together, is translated, the result is a set of plans for a complex machine, the purpose of which is impossible to determine. After much international debate, the machine is built, and Arroway and four companions, noted scientists from around the globe, enter the completed machine, start it up, and are whisked of to some unknown portion of the galaxy to commune with the beings who sent the message. Giving credit where due, Sagan serves up a nice mixture of science, speculation, and mysticism as his tale unfolds.<br />The problem, however, is Sagan simply can't leave well enough alone. As a science writer, Sagan excels, but as a novelist, he's got much to learn. With the exception of Arroway, most of the character development is poor and there are some rather odd plot developments, most notably a bizarre twist at the very end concerning Arroway's stepfather. But bad writing isn't the primary fault, hubris is. For some reason, people like Dr. Sagan, who are brilliant in one realm of human endeavour, begin to think themselves as experts in others in which they are actually quite clueless. This shows up in a number of spots in this book, but none more notable than his efforts to put religion in its place. Sagan himself is apparently an atheist, which is fine, but he devotes a rather large portion of the book to, for lack of a better term, shoving his views down our throat. He does this by having Arroway engage in a number of \\"debates\\" with a pair of preachers, which by itself wouldn't be bad, except that he resorts to the classic \\"straw man\\" tactic, which is to say, rigging the contest by having the opposition represented by easily refuted buffoons. In this case, the preachers are, for the most part, ignorant bible thumpers who spout clich&eacute;s about Creationism and other sundry topics, the end result being, of course, that Arroway (and, by extension, Sagan) comes across as sensible, rational, and enlightened while religion is shown mainly as a tool for exploiting people's fear and stupidity. It's one thing for Sagan to use a work of fiction to expound his opinions on religion, but at the very least he should have had the intellectual honesty to give the opposition a fair hearing. There are any number of learned theologians and religious scholars, rabbis, and so forth who could have been used as the basis for an intelligent argument in favor of religion, but Sagan probably didn't want to risk having to examine his own views too deeply for fear of finding that perhaps they weren't as infallible as he thinks.<br />And that,in a nutshell, is my principal complaint. Sagan has always been an articulate advocate for science, and a passionate supporter of anything that adds to our knowledge and understanding of the universe. His experience as an astronomer and his work with SETI put him in a near perfect position to write a fictional account of a possible contact with extraterrestrial life, and that part of the book is thoroughly enjoyable. It's only when he ventures off onto other subjects, most notably, his obvious dislike of religion, that he starts to make a fool of himself. It was notable that, when a movie based on this book was made; they cut out most of the extraneous stuff and focused the central issue, the \\"Contact\\" with another civilization in the universe. This book is by no means bad, and contains quite a bit of thought provoking material, but to be perfectly blunt, if someone were to ask my recommendation, I'd suggest they see the movie instead.a nutshell, is my principal complaint. Sagan has always been an articulate advocate for science, and a passionate supporter of anything that adds to our knowledge and understanding of the universe. His experience as an astronomer and his work with SETI put him in a near perfect position to write a fictional account of a possible contact with extraterrestrial life, and that part of the book is thoroughly enjoyable. It's only when he ventures off onto other subjects, most notably, his obvious dislike of religion, that he starts to make a fool of himself. It was notable that, when a movie based on this book was made; they cut out most of the extraneous stuff and focused the central issue, the \\"Contact\\" with another civilization in the universe. This book is by no means bad, and contains quite a bit of thought provoking material, but to be perfectly blunt, if someone were to ask my recommendation, I'd suggest they see the movie instead.	2003-03-21
US	50621794	R2OM57WSUKBZHK	0679772537	13759843	The Age of Revolution: 1789-1848	Books	2	19	104	N	N	Too Eurocentric	Well, as a Brit, his focusing principally on events in Europe is understandable, yet one cannot help but wonder - why  did his &quot;Age of Revolution&quot; begin in 1789 instead of 1776? Surely the American Revolution, over the long run, has proven to be the most influential in world affairs, yet this prominent historian apparently didn't think it warranted any significant discussion. This seems rather odd. Perhaps his Marxist ideology has blinded him to the possibility that a nation could be founded on entirely different ideals, and be far more successful as a result. After all, Marx only promised his workers a &quot;Dictatorship of the Proletariat&quot; which was, when all was said and done, still a dictatorship (witness the USSR or, for that matter, Castro's Cuba). In contrast, the American Founding Fathers forged a nation based on much higher ideals, namely, the right of each individual to &quot;Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of Happiness&quot;. It would seem that this fact is worthy of a bit more memtion in what is supposed to be a thorough examination of the effects of revolutions in the late 18th through mid 19th centuries.	2003-03-04
US	50621794	R2HSXOSVAF9Z6V	1400046610	957571830	Slander: Liberal Lies About the American Right	Books	3	18	23	N	N	OK, but "Bias" was better	This is, like most recent books on politics, an obvious case of preaching to the choir. If you want to see liberals get trashed, it doesn't get much better than this. Most books of this genre seem to come from radio talk show hosts and it shows in the writing, which is often chatty and lacking in depth (as if their authors, befitting their trade, simply dictated the text into a microphone) but Coulter is a skilled writer and it shows. This is PJ O'Rourke on PMS, and when she sharpens her poison pen, look out! This book is loaded with zingers, early on we get this about the war on terror: \\"Here the country had finally given liberals a war against fundamentalism and they didn't want to fight it. They would have, except it would have put them on the same side as the United States.\\" For 205 pages Coulter launches a relentless attack on the Left, focusing the bulk of her ire on the liberal media. She makes many of the same points as Bernard Goldberg does in \\"Bias\\", only she does so with considerably more gusto. People who are tired of feeling that the media elites sneer at them and their values will find much to like here, she channels their anger and focuses it like a laser beam on her targets. Their vacuousness, mendacity, and one-sidedness are exposed for all to see.  <br />Of course, much of her book simply backs up pre-existing views. The notion that the media tilts left is hardly new; she simply provides evidence to back it up. If nothing else, she certainly didn't slack off when it came to research, the book contains something like 800 footnotes, so it's obvious that she did her homework. It is enlightening to learn, for example, that conservative authors vastly outsell books by liberals, yet publishers routinely offer the latter much larger advances, the implication being that publishers are willing to let ideology trump basic business sense. And she performs the valuable service of debunking the notion that the success of Rush Limbaugh and other conservative pundits are \\"proof\\" of a lack of media bias because this fails to make the distinction between the \\"opinion\\" media versus the \\"hard news\\" media. After all, Rush and his ilk make no bones about their political leaning whereas liberals like Dan Rather insist on calling themselves \\"objective\\" when they simply aren't. All in all, Coulter, like the lawyer she is, argues a convincing case.<br />Of course, the counter to this book is to say that, as an author playing the role of advocate, it's obvious she's only doing what a good lawyer does, namely argue the best case for her cause, which naturally means that only facts that support her point of view will be given.  Informed readers will take that as a given, and judge accordingly. The down side, however, is this means authors like Coulter (and left wing counterparts like Mike Moore) simply contribute, not enlightenment, but further polarization. Coulter's acerbic wit is quite capable of becoming shrill, even bitter at times. Her fans love her for this, but in addition to antagonizing her foes, she also runs the risk of alienating centrists who might otherwise be persuaded to see things her way. In contrast, readers of Bernard Goldberg's \\"Bias\\" are also presented with a strong case for the notion of liberal bias in the media, but he's much less strident and he's willing to appeal to both moderates and liberals.  The other night he was on Hardball with Chris Matthews doing a live show on a college campus. With a combination of facts and solid arguments delivered with a serious, yet pleasant, demeanor, he worked the crowd like the media pro he is. The audience, which was mostly young and liberal, listened respectfully to his points. He may not have changed many people's minds outright, but I'll bet more than a few students at least will give the matter some thought. In contrast, it's a fair bet that, had Coulter been on that show instead, she would have succeeded primarily in convincing the majority of that audience to rejecther views while winning little, if any, support.	2003-02-14
US	50621794	RYFS74J9DFB8Y	0345402871	684823314	Airframe	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Not very good	Crichton at his best gives us a mix of brilliant technological insight set in an atmosphere of almost suffocating paranoia; one thinks of scientists racing against the clock against a killer ET virus (The Andromeda Strain) or dinosaur cloners who are hunted down by their own creations. This is not Crichton at his best. The paranoia is definitely there, as always, the heroes seem to be at the mercy of dark forces lurking in the shadows, but the technology part simply doesn't measure up. Crichton's understanding of both the aircraft industry and the basic rules of aeronautical engineering are sorely lacking, and it shows, especially in the downright ludicrous \\"resolution\\" at the end, in which a team of engineers and a test pilot come up with a completely ridiculous explanation for a plane losing control in flight. It may sound like nit picking, after all, most people who read this won't know about the technical details and probably won't care, nonetheless, Crichton has established a rep for being a master of detail, especially on technology, so this book looks as sloppy as if Tom Clancy tried to pass off a B-52 as being \\"stealthy\\".	2002-12-08
US	50621794	R2S95F4G20C5PR	0345380371	546668910	Rising Sun	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A fun, if paranoid, glimpse at Japan v America circa 1989	Im guessing Crichton wrote the bulk of this book several years before it was published, at least thats the impression you get reading it. It captures with nearly eerie perfection the contradictory ways Americans viewed the Japanese in the late 1980s; the mix of admiration for their business acumen, engineering prowess, long term planning, and social stability blended with fear and resentment, the notion that the ruthless nature of Japan Inc would soon reduce America to a 2nd class economic power.  Well, guess what? By the time this came out (with a movie version a year or so later) the Japanese economic bubble had burst, and we got to see that they were mortals after all, just as capable as anyone else of bumbling incompetence. This book has been accused of being racist, and I suppose theres some truth to this charge (after all, what else is the message other than the danger posed by those ever scheming inscrutable Orientals?) but the timing was off. Japan bashing was no longer in fashion because they werent seen as a threat any more. Still, this book serves a purpose in that it captures a moment in American history, a time when pundits stirred up fears of losing everything from our auto industry to our golf courses to the Japanese while at the same time the business and management sections of bookstores were crammed with titles whose collective theme was that the key to success was to follow the Japanese corporate model. How ironic then, to note how America proceeded from that low point to enter the boom years of the 90s while Japan went into a decade of stagnation from which it has yet to emerge.	2002-12-08
US	50621794	R236T3L3PM1IRP	0688066631	455954925	Whirlwind	Books	3	23	31	N	N	A good effort, but .....	This is the last (chronologically speaking) of Clavell's Asian series that started four centuries ago with &quot;Shogun&quot; and proceeded through &quot;Tai-Pan&quot;, \\"King Rat\\" and &quot;Noble House&quot; (&quot;Gai-Jin&quot;, which takes place earlier, was published after this book). It's a gallant effort that continues the Noble House's business adventures, only this time it's a subsidiary company that provides helicopter operations in Iran at the time Khomeini came to power. The main problem, however, is, at least for me, he genuinely has a difficult time getting the reader to really care about either his characters or the plot as a whole. Samurai warlords are interesting, Chinese political intrigues and business/criminal enterprises allied with European colonists in Hong Kong are interesting, but the Iranian Revolution and its effects on a handful of expatriate helicopter pilots are not. Part of what made Clavell such a good writer was he really had a feel for the intricacies of the Far East, its culture and its people. He presents both as a combination of the exotic and the familiar, the Japanese and the Chinese possessed cultures that may have been alien to the Europeans of the time, but are nonetheless fascinating to us because of their sophistication and their historical depth. In contrast, the Iranians are presented as, well, boring. The Shah was a decadent, if sometimes progressive, tyrant, but the fanatical Islamic fundamentalists that gave him the Order of the Boot are simply mindless thugs, medieval throwbacks whose \\"solution\\" to modern life is to wind back the clock to the 7th century. It's almost impossible to take such people and create a great fictional drama around their actions in Iran, no matter how valiantly Clavell tries.	2002-11-26
US	50621794	R2MIJZ1DQ7NHJX	0440178002	191357398	Shogun (Asian Saga)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Great "culture clash" tale!	I definitely agree with all the others who loved this book, it's truly a grand, sweeping epic with great characters, vivid imagery, historical drama, and much, much more. Perhaps the best part is the wonderful way Clavell handled the fundamental culture clash between the Europeans and the Japanese. It's downright hilarious at times to see the way the two view each other, due mainly to each side's inherent sense of racial/religious superiority over the other. The Europeans see a bunch of ungodly heathens who kill a drop of a hat, often in extremely cruel fashion, and who have no sense of the value of human life. Meanwhile, the Japanese see a bunch of uncouth, filthy, lice ridden, smelly barbarians who sit around eating greasy beef and swilling rum and ale like swine. In time, the smarter characters actually start to see certain values in their cultural opposites, marooned English sea captain Blackthorne learns to appreciate the finer aspects of the Japanese, their highly developed art and manners, their poetry, and their unique sense of honor and duty. His counterparts, Mariko and Lord Toranaga, each respectively learn the virtues of romantic love and the advantages of independent thinking and individual initiative of the Europeans, who have learned to conquer the seas and set up trading empires while the much more insular Japanese preferred to keep to themselves, rigidly adhering to ancient traditions. In due time, Toranaga becomes Shogun, supreme lord of all Japan, and Blackthorne is faced with the following dilemma: has he become too Japanese to ever go back home?	2002-11-26
US	50621794	R3EIDFS2RS7UFD	0679457526	82772270	Into Thin Air: A Personal Account of the Mount Everest Disaster	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A classic adventure/survival tale!	This book, which recounts the 1996 Everest climbing disaster, surely deserves to be ranked high on the list of all time adventure/survival epics. Normally in situations like this, a respected journalist would be dispatched after the fact to interview the survivors, piece together the evidence, do some post catastrophe analysis, and write an objective as possible account of the whole affair. What sets Jon Krakauer's \\"Into Thin Air\\" apart is the fact that he was a participant in as well as a chronicler of the tragedy. In addition to giving us the facts and personalities, he also provides a raw and absolutely compelling first person description of what it was like to be high on the mountain that fateful day. His recounting of the sense of fear, exhaustion, confusion and altitude induced oxygen starvation that he and his fellow climbers experienced is enough to give any armchair adventurer the sweats. <br />This book was originally intended to be an article for Outside Magazine about the increasingly popular, yet controversial, business of guided climbs on big mountains like Everest. They recruited Krakauer to serve as both client and journalist on Rob Hall's Adventure Consultants expedition, which was regarded as the most professional of all the guide services. Hall, an experienced climber, had led 39 clients to the summit in previous years, and had seemingly turned getting people up Everest into a science. <br />Krakauer's book begins by describing the start of Hall's 1996 expedition, interspersed with Everest history and lore. In between narrating their hike to base camp and their initial \\"acclimation\\" ascents, he tells us of Everest's discovery by colonial Brits in the 1850's followed by early efforts to scale the mountain in the 1920's. In due time, Sir Edmund Hillary and Tenzing Norgay would succeed as the first men to the top. For a long time thereafter, Everest was off limits to all but the most elite of the mountaineering world, but in 1985 it all changed whenDick Bass, a 55-year-old wealthy Texan made it to the top with the help of an expert climber named David Breashears. The point was made - anybody could do this, all they needed was cash, perseverance, and basic climbing skills combined with being in decent, but by no means outstanding, physical condition. Thus a new business was born, with expert climbers being more than willing to separate wealthy sporting types from their money in exchange for a shot at the world's most famous summit. <br />By May 6th, Hall's team had spent almost a month getting their bodies adjusted to the high altitude, and they were ready to embark on the summit itself. On May 9th Krakauer and his companions found themselves in Camp 4 at 26,000 feet, resting in their tents, breathing oxygen, getting ready for the final push. So far everything had gone according to plan, but by mid afternoon the next day, events had become seriously unglued. Hall and competing expedition leader Scott Fischer were stuck near the summit, both having lost control over their respective teams. In addition, a storm was gathering below them, yet somehow it had gone unnoticed. By late afternoon Krakauer and a bunch of others were staggering around, blindly descending, hoping to find their way to their tents before the weather or bad luck killed them. Krakauer was lucky, most of the others weren't. That night, Hall, Fischer, and several others were stranded high on the peak, out of oxygen and completely exposed to horrendous wind chill conditions while, at the same time, a group of clients found themselves huddled on the South Col, a mere ten minute walk from the camp but unable to risk wandering around in whiteout conditions for fear of simply stepping out into empty space. They were eventually rescued by Russian guide Anatoli Boukreev although two of them, Beck Weathers and Yasuko Namba, were so far gone they were simply left for dead. By the end of it all, Krakauer's group had lost Hall and another guide, as well astwo clients. Fischer also died, and Weathers and a Taiwanese climber suffered horribly from frostbite. <br />What are we to make of all this? Well, for starters, whether by accident or design, Krakauer's book is a remarkable piece of work. The pacing is spot on, the tension slowly builds right up to the climax, and then it is released at the very end as we share the survivors' sense of both relief and guilt as they stagger back down the mountain to safety. Krakauer is a gifted writer who not only gives us a gripping first hand look at the risks inherent in extreme high altitude climbing, but he also provides keen observations into the personalities of his fellow climbers, including the Sherpas, who too often in the past had simply been taken for granted. The only gripe (and a minor one at that) is I think he should have skipped efforts to assign blame, and simply told us what happened, leaving the reader to judge for himself. Boukreev seems to get the bulk of the blame, unfairly, in my opinion. Sure, he made some questionable choices on Summit Day, but plenty of other errors were made as well, most notably by both guides and clients who found themselves on the summit much too late, and the failure by all concerned to notice the changing weather. But, that aside, this really is THE definitive account of the tragedy. After all, one can really only do so much Monday Morning Quarterbacking of something like this, and eventually you have to simply accept that, up in the thin air of the Death Zone, Everest will do its best to kill you if you show even the slightest lack of respect for it.	2002-11-22
US	50621794	R2AEI28V5KWS5C	0060953616	46075101	Climbing High: A Woman's Account of Surviving the Everest Tragedy	Books	2	20	27	N	N	Hardly a threat to Krakauer's classic	Early on in his classic \\"Into Thin Air\\", Jon Krakauer recounts how his team leader, Rob Hall, was stung when fellow New Zealander and Everest legend Sir Edmund Hillary denounced the business of \\"guided climbs\\" on the mountain. This book tends to reinforce Hillary's point of view. The author was a client on Scott Fischer's team, one of Hall's competitors, and, as dozens of others have observed, it is primarily an exercise in shallow ego gratification, and a poorly wriiten one at that. To be fair, to simply get up Everest, even with Sherpas and guides doing most of the support work, is no mean feat; nonetheless a non-climber like myself has to wonder whether these people are really entitled to claim Everest as a trophy. Her repeated blather about being the \\"first Scandinavian woman\\" on the summit seems banal, I mean, what's next, the first gay Mexican to make the top? And her constant use of phrases like \\"Sagamartha, Mother Goddess of the Earth\\" starts to sound smarmy and condescending, heck, according to Krakauer even the Sherpas mostly refer to it simply as \\"Everest\\". <br />The point is, these guided climbs offer a great opportunity for self-absorbed overachievers to make a name for themselves while in the process diluting the achievements of true experts. After all, if (as of 1996) some 600+ successful ascents had been logged, laymen like myself who aren't a part of the climbing fraternity might easily wonder what's so special about the whole thing. Of course, these expeditions do inject lots of badly needed cash into the Sherpas' economy, nonetheless one is inclined to wonder if the \\"sport\\" of mountaineering wouldn't be better served, as Krakauer himself suggested in passing near the end of his book, by simply banning oxygen from Everest. If nothing else, it would keep the hacks and wannabes off the hill and restore the summit to its status as a place open only to the very best climbers.	2002-11-15
US	50621794	R1I8B96S2HPLHH	073820563X	353562465	Nader: Crusader, Spoiler, Icon	Books	5	15	20	N	N	Good book, but Nader remains an enigma	Ralph Nader is arguably one of the most fascinating (and polarizing) figures on the American scene. He's been in the public eye for nearly four decades, and has along the way attracted intense loyalty but also intense fury, especially after running a presidential campaign two years ago that split the political left right down the middle. Nader is nothing if not a tightly wrapped bundle of contradictions, all of which simply makes him so intriguing. The public Nader is well known, but the private Ralph is exactly that, very private. Which naturally causes someone like me to ask the question: just what makes this guy tick? <br />In truth, we'll probably never know the whole Nader, which only makes a biography such as this all the more interesting. The author had thorough access to both Nader himself as well as lots of his allies, ex-allies, family members and others who were associated with or interacted with him over the years, yet, despite all this, the author, at the end of the day, seems to find the man as much an enigma as when he started this project. The reader is left to read between the lines and in the process form his own conclusions. And my own go along the following: first, it's my theory that Nader is hard to peg down because he is a leading member of a group that's never been formally identified, a group I'll call Political Fundamentalists. Much like their counterparts on the Right (the Religious Fundamentalists), the Political Fundamentalists possess an overwhelming sense of the rightness of their ideology. They are, in this world of all-around relativism, political True Believers for whom terms like \\"negotiate\\" and \\"give and take\\" simply don't exist in their lexicon and \\"compromise\\" is a dirty word. As a result, on the one hand, these type people tend to achieve their agenda as a result of pure, bulldog determination. They simply allow nothing to get in their way because, to them, it's not just one set of values competing against others in the political arena, but rather a clash between absolute good versus absolute evil. This, as the book points out with many examples, is largely the secret behind Nader's influence and clout, especially in his \\"glory years\\" that started in the mid 60's and reached a peak in the mid 70's. But, as numerous other examples given here show, it also resulted in Nader having as his own worst enemy none other than himself. Too often his determination simply became dogmatism, which caused him to pick too many fights with potential allies because they had, in his estimation strayed from the Righteous Path. <br />Nowhere was this more evident than in his quixotic 2000 campaign. On the one hand, his motivations seemed quite sincere; he really did believe that the Democrats had become much too similar to the GOP and that his Green Party offered a real alternative. On the other hand, the author makes a good case that Nader not only felt Gore had \\"sold out\\", but furthermore, he seemed to detest the man on a personal and visceral level. To a Fundamentalist, heathens and pagans can be partly excused on account of their presumed ignorance of the True Faith, but Gore was a heretic, an apostate who had rejected The Way in favor of pragmatism and worldly success. He seemed to revel in waving his \\"spoiler\\" status in Gore's face, actively campaigning right up to the last in highly competitive states, and to this day, he remains utterly unrepentant of the incontrovertible fact that he, far more than the \\"butterfly ballot\\" or anything else, cost him the election. On the one hand, this sense of Olympian detachment, of indifference to the intense fire he came under, has a certain admirable quality to it. In an era chock full of spin-doctors and political hacks, Nader was the Real Deal. But, on the other hand, one senses a man so full of himself that he had lost sight of the difference between taking a principled stand and self-righteous egomania. <br />So much for the \\"public\\" Nader. It may sound clichéd, but if you understand what motivates Jerry Falwell, you pretty much understand Nader as well. The absolutism, the devotion to fundamental ideology is basically the same, never mind the differences in their specific beliefs. But what about the private Ralph? This is a much more interesting nut (pun intended) to crack. The political Left is generally thought to be the realm of hedonists and libertines, men and women who flout traditional mores concerning things like sex and drug use. Nader is the exact opposite, a modern day ascetic, a Harry Hairshirt whose rejection of the pleasures of the flesh is a notable part of his legend. It would seem that not once have his lips touched either women or liquor, nor (God forbid!) tobacco. He has no car, nor much in the way of personal possessions beyond the bare necessities. He does not seem to have any hobbies or any other forms of recreation. He does not take vacations or travel for pleasure. In fact, among the 6 billion or so humans alive on this planet, he alone seems to have no interest (or even capacity) to enjoy life. That is perhaps the core of what makes Nader so fascinating. This is a man who has never fallen in love, who exists in a world full of beauty and wonder yet who sees none of it because he lives only for The Cause, like some dutiful soldier he grimly presses on, year after year, no matter what obstacles come his way. How can a person live like this? Perhaps, like some early Christian martyr, his beliefs are simply much more important. Or perhaps it's due to some psychological quirk, something that has created a desert in his soul and made it a dry, harsh place where there simply is no room for pleasure, for simply enjoying being alive. Whatever it is, it is an enigma that Nader is not about to share with anyone (as is his right) and one he'll undoubtedly take to his grave.	2002-10-30
US	50621794	R3UCP629IQC4WK	0786884592	544357348	Life Strategies: Doing What Works, Doing What Matters	Books	3	20	26	N	N	An OK, but overly mechanized guide to living	Self help books are to living what fast food is to dining. At best they offer up some basic nourishment, and at worst they simply clutter our lives with harmful junk. The problem is basically this: self-help books try to take something as enormously complex as life and simplify it and package it in an easily marketable format. Thus, for example, Dr. Phil's \\"Ten Life Laws\\" (and, no, they're not the ones Moses received on Mount Sinai, though those probably would, for most people, be a much better guideline). To me, the whole thing smacks of gimmickry, as if we are to believe that somehow Dr. Phil has magically discovered the human equivalent of the laws of physics and, even more amazing, there's exactly ten of them! Now, to be fair, much of what's in here is simply common sense, although it could have been expressed better, and certainly more concisely. His writing style often grates; he rarely fails to use several paragraphs to say something that could have fit into a sentence or two. In fact, the bulk of this book could have been summed up in a single sentence, namely - If you want to succeed in life, you need to learn to deal with reality. Not bad as insights go, but hardly a concept that requires 250 or so pages to explain. <br />The best parts of this book are the personal examples. For starters, they are by far the most interesting because, among other things, they're where Dr. Phil's writing style is elevated from leaden to lively. He's clearly become a huge hit on Oprah, winning the devotion of the millions of women (and half dozen or so men) who watch her show by being quite effective in helping people deal with their problems in a one-on-one setting. I can see where many people with *specific* personal problems (substance abuse, marital strife, etc.) could peruse this volume and find something useful to help them deal with it. What I'm having a much harder time buying is the idea that this book can be used to, as the title suggests, create a \\"life strategy\\"that will result in a far more fulfilling and purposeful life. The reason is his approach is simply much too mechanized. He is pretty much saying that, by simply following a set of instructions, making out lists, and paying homage to ten (completely arbitrary, not to mention somewhat banal) Life Laws, we can add depth and meaning to our existence. One of the true joys in life (and, IMHO, key to becoming a genuinely successful person) is learning to think for yourself, and that's something you simply cannot do when following a cookbook approach to living, i.e., do Step One, Step Two, Step Three, etc. Life is not that simple, and so much the better for it.	2002-09-02
US	50621794	R2Q6DWLX848EBW	0671657151	12401298	The Closing of the American Mind	Books	5	14	18	N	N	A great book	This is a great book for one simple reason - it makes you really think. As evidence, I need merely look at some of the other reviews here, which are some of the most well written I've seen anywhere. I can open it, turn to pretty much any page at random, and find material that will stimulate my mind, and cause me to use my best mental faculties to determine whether or not I agree or disagree with the author on a particular point or issue, and why. Sure, Bloom may come across as stuffy, elitist, and a bit of an old grump, but only those who've never learned to think beyond a purely superficial level will use that as an excuse to dismiss his ideas.<br />I could cite any number of examples, but there simply isn't the space, so let me limit it to just one - music. On a purely superficial level, he sounds like a more highbrow version of every parent from the Sixties who yelled \\"Stop listening to that noise from those damn long haired freaks\\" at their kids. Clearly he has little regard for rock music of any kind, and seems to look at it as mostly hormone driven junk compared to classical music. At first glance, one might think - so what? And that's probably what most people will think, at first. Including myself, after all, I mostly listen to rock, and rarely classical. But let's be honest. Aside from a handful of genuine talents, most rock music basically IS junk. Those parents in the 60's were, for the most part, right. Sure, there were occasional exceptions like the aforementioned Beatles (and even their early stuff was mostly bubblegum) but most of the music of the era was more like the Monkees, i.e., eminently forgettable. On the other hand, classical music is called classical for one reason - it's the best that's ever been made, and that probably ever will be. <br />So, does that mean the good professor is correct? Not necessarily. The principal reason that classical music isn't very popular (I was going to say \\"with young people\\" but the truth is, it applies to pretty much everyone now) is because the best of it is all in the past. Judged purely by quality, music simply hit its peak in the 18th and 19th centuries. Jazz is inferior to classical, and rock inferior to jazz. But rock has one quality neither of the others do - it's still fresh. This is the point Bloom simply misses. People don't listen to rock because it's great, but because it's new. Bloom is simply unrealistic to expect a culture like ours that thrives on innovation to live only in the past; in fact, it would be unhealthy because it would lead to stagnation.<br />Another fact that Bloom fails to consider is that, although classical music isn't anywhere near as popular as rock, it still gets a level of respect, not just from the highbrows but the hoi polloi as well, that rock never will. For example, it is still the mainstay of many serious and popular movie soundtracks for the simple reason that it has a gravitas that is necessary to set the mood of the film. Stanley Kubrick's \\"2001 A Space Odyssey\\" set to classical music is magnificent. Set to rock, it would have been ridiculous. And, if anything, the lack of popularity of classical may actually be a sign of how esteemed it still is. After all, a night at the symphony is, for most people, a rare event, something to be savored, even treasured. Rock is what we listen to in the car going to work. <br />And that, in a nutshell, is the strength of this book. I found myself disagreeing with Bloom on this particular issue, but in doing so I had to really do a lot of thinking about the evolution of music and what role it plays in our society. And that's just one of many issues he raises in this book. Any educated person could simply pick a chapter at random and then spent hours thinking through the subject from a variety of different angles. Books that can make you do this are rare indeed, and truly deserve to be called great.	2002-07-31
US	50621794	R3SRXIU8U6YTEC	0671795937	381852442	Rogue Warrior	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Two Fisted All-American Action Hero!	In his autobiography \\"Rogue Warrior\\", Richard Marcinko delivers a red blooded, two-fisted account of his life as a Navy Seal. He's loud, crude, and in your face right from Page One as he describes his adventures, starting out when he joined the Navy as a teenager, then volunteered for Frogman training, followed by two combat tours in Vietnam, another assignment in Cambodia, all cumulating in his creating the Navy's first dedicated counter-terror commando unit, Seal Team Six. Sure, he's an egotistical, arrogant SOB, but then, as one of the star operators in what is arguably the most elite combat force in the country, if not the world, he has earned that right in spades. Marcinko is a one-man demolition unit, destroying anything that gets in his way, whether it's the Vietcong or pencil pushing dip-dunk staff [people] who resent that he isn't afraid to bend the rules to get what he wants. Giving credit where due, Marcinko writes a great piece. He never leaves us bored, whether it's describing dangerous combat patrols and training exercises or the various efforts he took to win official approval for his unorthodox methods. <br />My only complaint (and the reason this gets 4 stars instead of 5) occurs at the very end. As Marcinko describes it, thanks to a vendetta on the part of the top Navy brass, he was charged, tried, and convicted of several criminal counts. I suspect the truth is not quite so simple. Obviously something fishy happened in the last years of his Navy career, and Marcinko seems rather reluctant to discuss it in detail. This leads me to suspect that he did indeed, after decades of pushing the envelope, finally go too far, and he lacks the honesty to admit it, instead blaming his problems on \\"The System\\" for finally getting back at him for all those years of flouting the rules. I mean, let's be honest. The same \\"System\\" that Marcinko rails against also allowed him to rise from high school dropout to a full commander, a man entrusted to run the top commando team in the world, a man who was on a first name basis with the Chief of Naval Operations, the top job in the entire US Navy. In short, Marcinko's excuses just don't fly. But, that aside, this book is a slam-bang adventure story, the sort of stuff that guys like Tom Clancy only dream about.	2002-07-22
US	50621794	R21QH1RA32BCLR	0028642333	807942989	The Complete Idiot's Guide to Understanding Islam (The Complete Idiot's Guide)	Books	3	23	44	N	N	A mix of facts and propaganda	This book is, on the whole, a pretty good guide for Westerners who know very little about Islam and want a basic description of what this religion is about, how it was started, and what it purports to stand for. It is well organized and informative without being either simplistic or intimidating. Unfortunately, it is seriously marred by a lack of objectivity once it moves beyond the realm of factual information and delves into issues of interpretation and judgment. The author, an American convert, seems to feel obligated to offer up an apologia for every aspect of his newly chosen religion, no matter how offensive or contradictory. For example, he blames the colonization of the Middle East by Western powers in the past couple centuries for the current decline of Islamic civilization, yet he crows about the \\"advanced\\" state of Spain after being invaded by Islamic armies in medieval times, never mind that the Spaniards never accepted this foreign domination and fought valiantly for centuries until the hated invaders were finally expelled in the late 15th century. In short, the author sees imperialism as bad when done by Christian Westerners against Muslims, yet it is perfectly OK when the reverse happens. This kind of blatant double standard hardly buttresses the author's credibility. Finally, his \\"explanations\\" for such incidents as the bounty put on Salman Rushdie's head by the late Ayatollah will strike any liberal-minded person (regardless of their nationality) as being downright bizarre. \\"The Satanic Verses\\" may (or may not) have been religiously offensive, but by no means does this justify incitation to murder, as the author breezily suggests. His lame excuse that Rushdie was never in any \\"real\\" danger just does not fly, civilized people simply do not behave this way. And that, ultimately, is the problem with this book. As long as the author sticks to the facts as regards Islam, he performs a useful service. But when he delves into inserting his opinions, all hedoes is support the notion, held by many Westerners, that Islam is a backward, primitive, and barbaric religion.	2002-07-12
US	50621794	R189BQKZBIYXQL	0312161190	817282431	The Rise, Corruption and Coming Fall of the House of Saud	Books	3	33	40	N	N	Useful, but amateurish and bombastic	This is a useful book in that it challenges the public image that the Saudi royal family has put much effort and money into establishing, especially here in the West. That image is one of a benign monarchy, one that provides generously for its people while promoting geopolitical stability in the region. Needless to say, Mr. Aburish presents a radically different view, one of a brutal family run dictatorship that is corrupt to the core and which ruthlessly squashes dissent at home while sowing seeds of disunity among the other nations of the region. There is no doubt but that, in daring to write this exposé, Mr. Aburish provides a useful service, since neither the governments nor the media in the West show much interest in examining the Saudi government with a truly critical eye, although to some extent this can be explained by the inherent cynicism of mainstream journalism. After all, it is pretty much taken as a given that most regimes in the area are corrupt, repressive and autocratic, so reporting such is basically a \\"Dog bites man\\" type of story. <br />Mr. Aburish's problem is that he simply goes overboard. His attacks too often seem personal in nature, although this can be explained by the fact that he dedicated this book to a friend who had been tortured to death by the Saudi secret police. He brings a sense of passion to this work, which is laudable, but too often it causes him to abandon any sense of objectivity in his quest to lambaste the House of Saud. As a result, this book reads less like the work of a professional journalist and more like a one-man act of personal vengeance. At times it becomes downright silly, such as when he attacks Saudi patriarch Ibn Saud for buying 40 Packards, which he derides as being \\"the most vulgar car of the 1940's\\". And it is rife with factual errors and general sloppiness, most notably in the latter chapters. Defense contractor Grumman is spelled \\"Grueman\\" and he makes reference to Vice President Edmund Muskie, a man whowas only a vice presidential candidate on McGovern's losing 1972 ticket. But the worst part is simply the complete lack of any sort of even handedness, this book reads less as an accurate accounting of the Royal Family and more as a cheap piece of propaganda (most notably, the section on Desert Storm, parts of which could have been lifted straight from the Iraqi Ministry of Information). He makes numerous broad assertions without providing much, if anything, in the way of proof. Most notable is his claim that the present regime is loathed by the majority of Saudis and is teetering on the verge of collapse. Perhaps it is, but he gives precious little evidence to support it. <br />In addition, he seems incredibly naïve when it comes to economics and foreign affairs. On the latter, he accuses the Saudi government of constantly trying to manipulate its neighbors so as to avoid potential conflicts. Well, since when is engaging in pragmatic opportunism forbidden in the art of statecraft? It would seem the Saudi government has been eminently successful in avoiding both bloody foreign confrontations and internal havoc, a feat that the late Shah of Iran was incapable of. Also, while asserting that rank and file Saudis have been denied their rightful share of the oil wealth, he simultaneously attacks the Saudi government for not sharing more of that wealth with their fellow Arab nations, a move that would have been about as politically popular as if the American president promised to fork over a large percentage of American tax dollars to enrich the Mexicans. <br />Finally, he is on multiple occasions guilty of rank hypocrisy. For example, he is outraged at the treatment that ARAMCO oilmen initially gave to their Saudi workers, looking down at them and calling them \\"A-rabs\\", yet Aburish is hardly above indulging in blatant snobbery, most notably in which he sneers at the Saud family as if they were the Arabic equivalent of disreputable white trash. And yet, toward the end, he also takes Oil Minister Sheik Yamani to task for showing off his academic prowess and sophistication because it was \\"un-Arabic\\". And, in the final chapter, one gets the impression that Aburish simply doesn't know what he wants, other than the overthrow of the House of Saud. Does he want to see a Western style liberal democracy? Or an Iran style Islamic republic? Or a \\"constitutional monarchy\\"? He doesn't say. And that's the fundamental problem. Aburish is, to a greater or lesser extent, a useful critic of the Saudi regime. But what he utterly fails to do is offer up any sort of practical alternative.	2002-06-11
US	50621794	R2DWYO7NYM0LVW	0671023187	590280047	Term Limits	Books	3	48	59	N	N	A good first effort	In reviewing this book, I found it hard to properly rate it using Amazon's 5 star system (IMDb.com's scale of 1-10 for rating movies is, IMHO, much better) because I honestly want to give it 3  stars, but can't. It is a good book (especially for a rookie) nonetheless it has some real flaws. The best parts? In the Tom Clancy/Robert Ludlum tradition, the plot is fast paced and the writing is tight. At no point is the reader bored. It is the literary equivalent of the movie \\"Mad Max\\", i.e., lots of action and thrills, albeit somewhat rough around the edges. If you look beyond the action, you notice that the main characters are somewhat one or two dimensional (a common complaint in the techno/spy thriller genre) and, worse, the plot itself is rather contrived. I mean, does anyone REALLY believe that a handful of former Navy SEALs would plot to kill prominent politicians because they refuse to cut spending and balance the budget? Yet that is the central premise of this book. There is a more credible subplot, in which the SEALs assassinate one Senator (a dead ringer for Ted Kennedy) because the stupid fool let slip a vital piece of info while drinking at a local bar, this info ended up in enemy hands, resulting in said former SEAL team leader having half his men killed because the terrorists knew they were coming. At any rate, you don't have to be a tax and spend liberal Democrat to find the notion of using assassination (technically, not terrorism, since the SEALs refuse to kill any \\"civilians\\", just the politicians) as a tool to change political policy rather disturbing. I mean, I'm as much in favor of cutting all the waste and bloat out of the government as the next guy, but the \\"solution\\" proposed here smacks a bit too much of Timothy McVeigh. That aside, there's an interesting plot twist in which the president's unscrupulous Chief of Staff and National Security Advisor team up with a shady former CIA figure to stage additional assassinations to draw public support away from the SEALs, who have gone public with their demands, and whose actions in bumping off several sleazy politicians has actually aroused considerable sympathy. This leads to the final showdown, with a series of fast paced actions that threaten to blow the whole Administration apart if the shady machinations with the former CIA man are revealed. So, the bottom line is this: if you like Clancy (especially his early stuff) or Ludlum, and enjoy a plot with lots of paranoia and anti-government skullduggery, then you will get an entertaining read. Just don't expect a whole lot in the credibility dept.	2002-05-27
US	50621794	R1NRKM6DR1M572	0425143325	685045441	Without Remorse (John Clark Novel, A)	Books	2	9	19	N	N	Somewhat disturbing	I'm hardly a bleeding heart liberal and I thoroughly enjoyed \\"Dirty Harry\\" and \\"Death Wish\\" (movies that you could really relate to in the context of their time, when it seemed the criminals had more \\"rights\\" than their victims) but this book is too much even for me because the vigilante style \\"justice\\" that our hero, John Kelly, dispenses to Baltimore's drug dealers and pimps in his quest for revenge is almost impossible to justify. That's the principal plot of this book, along with a somewhat interesting sub-plot that explains how Kelly was recruited by the CIA to set up a mission to rescue some POW's in Vietnam, which in time led to his taking on a full time job with the Agency, along with the alias John Clark. <br />What sets the story in motion is when Kelly encounters a skinny, but attractive girl named Pam who is on the run from a gang of vicious pimps/drug dealers. In the first 100 pages or so, he falls for her, and with the help of a friendly doctor, gets her cleaned up and drug free, only to lose her when the gang spots her riding with him through their turf. Right off the bat this seems like an act of monumental stupidity on Kelly's part. He knows how ruthless these gang types are, yet he brings her back to their neighborhood without putting her in any kind of disguise! What a bonehead! And to top if off, after he initially eludes the bad guys by driving his 4x4 through a muddy lot in which their low riding sports car gets stuck, he then parks just a few blocks away, where the villains track him down and ambush him, giving him a nasty shotgun blast to the arm while taking Pam to be killed in an extremely cruel fashion. <br />The rest of the book is about Kelly's one-man mission of vengeance. He finds that by disguising himself as a wino, he can roam the gang's territory without attracting attention, and he then starts homing in on the gang as he kills off an assortment of small fry dealers in his quest for info on his real targets. And that really is theproblem with this book. It is entirely reasonable to cheer him on when he actually starts working on Pam's killers, including a scene where he tortures to death a particularly vicious [man] named Billy, but the rest of his killings are little more than cold blooded murder. True, pimps and drug dealers tend to be human scumbags, but neither crime warrants the death penalty, as Clancy seems to be suggesting. Viewed purely as a work of fiction, \\"Without Remorse\\" is basically OK, but in moral terms it comes off as somewhat disturbing.	2002-04-25
US	50621794	RPZLEIM7CHXT8	0425133540	243303903	The Sum of All Fears (Jack Ryan Novels)	Books	3	6	9	N	N	The start of Clancy's downward slide	This book was, for me, the starting point from which Tom Clancy began his decline as a writer. It was also the last Clancy book I actually paid money for (I got a couple later ones as gifts, and checked out the rest from the library). <br />My biggest complaint is that this is where his hero, Jack Ryan, makes his transition from resourceful and brave CIA operative to superhuman Saviour of the World. In short, he goes from being a genuinely credible character to one that belongs in a comic book. Don't believe me? Just look at all the world crises he single handedly solves in this (and later) books. For starters, he magically cooks up a plan that will permanently bring peace and stability to the Middle East, a task that has, to date, eluded countless diplomats and any number of US presidents and Israeli Prime Ministers. But not Jack Ryan, nosiree Bob, with a few phone calls and some help from the Vatican, he gets everything solved over there, and that's just in the first quarter of the book! He still has some 600+ pages to Save the World from nuclear holocaust, which of course he proceeds to do despite a terrorist atomic attack on the Super Bowl, a president who doesn't trust him, a National Security Advisor who hates his guts and plots his downfall, a wife who's starting to suspect him of cheating, and, on a personal level, a bit too much reliance on the bottle to deal with stress.<br />OK, to be fair, a certain simplicity in terms of plot and character development is pretty much a Clancy forte, and he does at least provide us with a highly entertaining page-turner. And my objection to this book would have been lessened had he not followed it up by promoting Ryan on to ever bigger and more important jobs, culminating with his getting the world's top job (the presidency) a couple books later. Ryan is at his best solving more manageable problems, as he did in \\"Red October\\" or \\"Cardinal of the Kremlin\\", but he is far less interesting as a world power broker who seems tobe able to solve any crisis, no matter how terrifying, with nearly as much ease as Superman leaping a tall building. The \\"problems\\" that Jack encounters are all solved in a fairly simplistic fashion, his personal driver (John Clark) saves his marriage by giving his wife the truth about the alleged affair, she then goes on the publicly humiliate the National Security Advisor who'd promoted the cheating rumors, and Jack eases off on the sauce just in time to intervene in a potential nuclear crisis by personally making contact with the Soviet leader and defusing tensions that had been built up by the incompetent president who's been giving way too much credence to the aforementioned National Security Advisor, a woman way out of her depth. And, as if that weren't enough, noble Jack intervenes when the president prepares to launch a nuclear attack to avenge the Super Bowl bombing. <br />To \\"sum\\" it up, this book delivers the goods in terms of entertainment value, but does little else. And Clancy's books from here on merely continue that pattern. What made his earlier books work was that he seemed to genuinely take his plots and characters seriously, whether it was the machinations of mad Irish terrorists, the efforts of a revered Soviet sub captain to defect with the latest, most potent missile boat, or a rather convoluted war in Latin America against the drug barons. He made the people and the situations seem alive and real. But from this point on, he chose to indulge in ever more grandiose tales that are the literary equivalent to big budget action and special effects laden Hollywood blockbusters.	2002-04-24
US	50621794	R3L6XLIKTGMXTF	0060392452	194848581	Stupid White Men ...And Other Sorry Excuses for the State of the Nation!	Books	3	16	34	N	N	A left wing Limbaugh?	Ten years ago, Rush Limbaugh produced a smash best seller titled \\"The Way Things Ought To Be\\". This phenomenon seems to be repeating itself with Mike Moore's \\"Stupid White Men\\"; only the hordes of people flocking to the bookstores today are left wingers instead of right-wingers. Aside from that, the response from rabid fans is essentially identical - the vast majority of reviews here basically say \\"Megadittoes Mike!\\" along with chants of \\"Moore for President!\\" Like Rush, Moore combines politics, entertainment, and exhortations of outrage. And, as if these similarities weren't enough, Moore is also quite rotund.<br />So, is Moore the left wing's Limbaugh? The literary styles are similar: both are essentially works ... meant to promote a political viewpoint, and, as a result, both are quite happy to loudly provide facts that enhance that viewpoint while conveniently ignoring those that don't. And, in an ironic note, Moore bashes Democrats for being too spineless in their dealings with Republicans. He and Rush should sit down and discuss this over a few beers since Limbaugh and other conservative pundits have been saying the exact same thing for years about the GOP. Like Rush, Moore is a hardcore political partisan; true, he beats up on Democrats, but only for not being far enough to the left. <br />Having read both books, I would say that Rush is the better thinker and Moore the better writer. Moore simply does not know how to apply logic or rationality to his arguments, he makes little effort to explain why his views are better, he just seems to assume, like religious faith, that it is self-evident. But then again, this is not meant to be a book that appeals to the intellect; rather, it is an appeal to the emotions. Most notably, Moore is still angry, no, make that furious, then again, make that apoplectic, about the 2000 election outcome. Which, I suppose he has a right to be, but, to my eyes at any rate, this tirade of his gets, well, tiresome rather quickly. In short, it comes off too much as the whining of a sore loser.<br />Which is itself ironic, since Moore was initially a passionate supporter of Nader, the man who, had he NOT run, would have ensured a clean Gore victory. To his credit, Moore explains in some detail in the last chapter the motivations behind his supporting Nader and admits that lots of Democrats and liberals are mad at both him and Ralph, and understandably so. Nonetheless, his position is a bit hard to fathom. After spending a whole chapter telling us what a bunch of sellouts the Democrats in general, and Clinton/Gore in particular, had become, one has to ask - why is he still so upset that Gore lost? In fact, he cannot even bring himself to accept it, instead he (rather childishly, IMHO) continues to act as if Bush has no legitimate status as our President. Note to Mike: Get over it, the man has an 80% approval rating, and most of the country seems damned glad Gore wasn't in the White House on Sept 11, 2001.<br />So, yes, this is definitely a book that hardcore leftists will seek solace in, and one that most conservatives will either ignore or vilify. Such is the nature of political screeds, and Moore is no worse than most of his fellow screamers on both sides of the political fence. Of course his arguments are ideologically self-serving with minimal effort at balance or fairness, but so what? At least he manages to be entertaining. Which is really what books like these are all about, since those looking for serious, intellectual analyses of important issues know to look elsewhere.	2002-04-09
US	50621794	R2DDGGY9Q0LNDB	078819142X	929646310	In Search of Stones: A Pilgrimage of Faith, Reason & Discovery	Books	2	13	14	N	N	Too full of himself	Scott Peck had both the fortune and misfortune to write a hugely influential best seller as a young man with his \\"The Road Less Travelled\\". His good fortune is that book made him a star. His bad fortune is that nothing he's written since has measured up. As a result, he became a guru to millions, yet he seems not up to the task of leading his flock of sheep to the Promised Land of mental and spiritual enlightenment. <br />In this book, Peck and his long suffering wife tour Britain in search of ancient rock formations. Along the way, Peck offers his observations on all sorts of existential subjects, from aging to holiness. Some of it is interesting, but Peck is just too full of his own \\"insights\\" while maintaining a gross ignorance of many aspects of his own life. For instance, he analyzes his wife's struggles with depression, yet it never occurs to him that there might be a link to his numerous acts of infidelity. Also, he moans constantly about his poor health, yet he smokes like a chimney and drinks like a fish. I mean, how sympathetic are we supposed to be? Also, for a man who supposedly has such a keen grasp of human nature, how is it he became estranged from his own children? <br />In sum, Peck has a few worthwhile insights, but mostly this book is a sad complilation of a man out of touch with himself. He should ditch the psychobabble and tend to that which is most important in life, namely, getting his health back and mending fences with his kids.	2002-03-31
US	50621794	R1Y3ZI6QZXEMVA	0195148274	374461801	Supreme Injustice: How the High Court Hijacked Election 2000	Books	2	15	44	N	N	Slickly manipulative	The problem with books like these is that their authors use their academic credentials to legitimize what is, in essence, partisan propaganda. Such is the case here, though I suppose one must give Mr. Derschowitz due credit for at least not trying to hide his agenda in his choice of a title. It is, after all, quite clear that he is biased wholly in favor of Al Gore, and makes little effort to examine the issue in a fair and evenhanded manner. This is a natural and laudable action for a lawyer defending a client, but here he is presenting himself as a legal expert supposedly examining only the facts of the case, which is, of course, highly misleading. Mr. Derschowitz is instead arguing for his \\"client\\", Al Gore, and, had the shoe been on the other foot, he'd have presented equally passionate arguments for Mr. Bush.	2002-03-24
US	50621794	RRBIQ4FQW5LCU	0195144201	433958284	What Went Wrong?: Western Impact and Middle Eastern Response	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A great start, lacks only more detail	The opening chapters of this book document the rise and fall of Islam as a political/military entity. It goes without saying that there's not much in the way of a pacifist tradition within Islam, it began as a religion of the sword, and for its first thousand years of existence it waged a relentless war of aggression against its neighbors, from the originally Christian Mediterranean states in the 7th century, through its invasion of Spain and Portugal and right up till a mere three centuries ago, when the Ottoman Empire was attempting to conquer Vienna in the heart of Europe. Only in the past 300 years has the Islamic world suffered a series of military defeats and general decline Vis a Vis the West.<br />The bulk of this book is devoted to studying the nature of this decline. Actually, it wasn't decline so much as failure to progress. Back in the depths of Medieval times, Europe was at a disadvantage in almost every aspect of civilization when compared to the Muslim world; it was poorer, less literate, and behind in both military prowess and scientific knowledge. However, as the 2nd Millennium progressed, the Islamic world stayed mostly the same while the Christian West experienced dramatic changes brought on by the Protestant Reformation, the scientific revolution spawned by the likes of Galileo and Isaac Newton, vastly increased trade, exploration, and conquest, and the emergence of new political ideas in Europe and America. What had been the Arab world's chief asset, namely long-term stability, became a liability in the form of stagnation.<br />The author, an expert in Islamic studies, gives us a short and very readable account of the West's achieving geopolitical, and more importantly, intellectual supremacy over the Islamic world. The meaning of the title \\"What Went Wrong\\" is clear; it is an explanation of how the Muslim Middle East squandered its military, economic, and intellectual advantage over the once impoverished Christian West. He does not assign any one factor to account for this, but rather investigates the relentless advance of the West in the technology of war, and more importantly, the spread of a scientific and secular set of ideas across Western societies. Implied in the author's case is the notion that conflict and even open warfare between competing ideas ultimately strengthened Western Civilization. Horrific as they were, the battles between Catholic and Protestant Christians in time gave birth to the notion of religious tolerance, and more importantly, the establishment of secular governments in which religion is largely relegated to the private and personal sphere. In contrast, no such dramatic changes ever occurred in Islamic countries. Islam recognizes no separation of power in which religion guides peoples' moral actions while a representative civil government handles such practical matters as creating laws and administering justice. The Koran governs all; it sets forth the laws and, more importantly, the basic ideas upon which its followers are to live their lives. It makes no allowance for human progress; instead it assumes that everything mankind needs to know about how to live their lives has already been written in the Holy texts.<br />There are some minor nits to pick with this book, most notably its shortness. I, for one, would have liked to been given a more in-depth account of the formative years of Islam. Just as with Christianity in the 1st century, something quite important happened in the mid 7th century which created the Islamic religion and contributed to its rapid spread. But the author devotes only a few pages to Islam's early years, then spends most of the book relating how the Christian West left the Muslim world far behind in the past few centuries. But, that complaint aside, this book is a valuable contribution to the effort to understand the atmosphere of inferiority and rage that seems to exist in the current day Middle Eastern world.one factor to account for this, but rather investigates the relentless advance of the West in the technology of war, and more importantly, the spread of a scientific and secular set of ideas across Western societies. Implied in the author's case is the notion that conflict and even open warfare between competing ideas ultimately strengthened Western Civilization. Horrific as they were, the battles between Catholic and Protestant Christians in time gave birth to the notion of religious tolerance, and more importantly, the establishment of secular governments in which religion is largely relegated to the private and personal sphere. In contrast, no such dramatic changes ever occurred in Islamic countries. Islam recognizes no separation of power in which religion guides peoples' moral actions while a representative civil government handles such practical matters as creating laws and administering justice. The Koran governs all; it sets forth the laws and, more importantly, the basic ideas upon which its followers are to live their lives. It makes no allowance for human progress; instead it assumes that everything mankind needs to know about how to live their lives has already been written in the Holy texts.<br />There are some minor nits to pick with this book, most notably its shortness. I, for one, would have liked to been given a more in-depth account of the formative years of Islam. Just as with Christianity in the 1st century, something quite important happened in the mid 7th century which created the Islamic religion and contributed to its rapid spread. But the author devotes only a few pages to Islam's early years, then spends most of the book relating how the Christian West left the Muslim world far behind in the past few centuries. But, that complaint aside, this book is a valuable contribution to the effort to understand the atmosphere of inferiority and rage that seems to exist in the current day Middle Eastern world.	2002-03-11
US	50621794	R1X87EJ4K14IJ5	0895262274	620354319	At Any Cost: How Al Gore Tried to Steal the Election	Books	5	5	13	N	N	An eye-opening look at the 2000 election	Unlike some other books on this subject, \\"At Any Cost\\" spends little time trying to parse the legalistics behind the Supreme Court's climactic decision in the Gore vs. Bush post-election contest. Instead, the author brings a reporter's eye view to the election itself and the messy 36-day aftermath, and treats us to a sometimes infuriating, occasionally hilarious, and always engaging look at the electoral crisis that captivated the entire nation.<br />In the infuriating category is his assessment of the media's role on that fateful night. Clearly they, through a combination of sloppiness and bias, helped initially tilt the election toward Gore. By prematurely calling Florida for Gore (before polls in the Western part of the state had even closed!) they gave voters both in that state and across the nation the impression that Bush had effectively lost as of about 7:50 PM Eastern Time. At the very least, according to several surveys quoted by the author, this could have cost Bush as many as 10,000 votes in Florida alone, and many thousands of others nationwide. Part of the blame falls on network stinginess. Instead of relying on their own polling services, the networks united to create a single outfit to conduct their exit polling, thus all the networks were relying on the same flawed data when they made their initial calls. Sammon also nails the networks for their arrogance and clear pro-Gore bias. Dan Rather is smugly quoted as stating that any results given by CBS could be \\"taken to the bank\\" and Tom Brokaw at one point let loose a Freudian slip, claiming that there were still \\"critical states we still have to win\\". He provides statistics to show that the networks were far quicker to award states to Gore than to Bush even when the margins of victory were essentially identical.<br />Anyway, after giving the media a well-deserved thrashing, Sammon moves on to the meat of Al Gore's effort to overturn the election \\"at any cost\\". He points out the utter shamelessness of his efforts, documenting, for example, how two Gore attorneys exchanged high fives after getting hundreds of military absentee ballots disqualified on legal technicalities, in clear defiance of his pious public stand of wanting to \\"count every vote\\". He also details the efforts of Democrat operative Bob Beckel to try to pressure members of the Electoral College to either switch votes or at least abstain. In a hilarious chapter titled \\"It's a chad, chad, chad, chad World\\" Sammon follows Democrat Bob Nichols as he tries to explain to the press the ever changing standards for hand counting the votes, a farce which taught us the difference between hanging chads, pregnant chads, and dimpled chads. It was quite clear that no objective standard existed for hand counting machine ballots, especially in a quixotic effort to guess the \\"intent of the voter\\". Silly as this all seemed, Gore, who'd lost both the original vote count and the state mandated recount, now had to rest all his hopes on getting still more recounts, which brought the entire mess down to the court mandated ending.<br />The problem, of course, was that Gore was up against the clock. The Electors had to be in place by December 12th. Fortunately for him, the Florida Supreme Court (7 liberal Democrats) ruled in his favor. So the hand counts continued until the Bush team decided they'd had enough of these games, and fired off a nuclear bombshell in the form of a suit to the US Supreme Court. There, as Sammon explains in detail, the Court slapped down the Florida Supremes in a 9-0 decision. Which, under normal circumstances, would have been the end of it, however, in an incredible 4-3 decision the Florida court voted to ignore the US Supreme Court and ordered the hand counting restarted. This, of course, led to the 7-2 decision on Dec 12, which basically sank Gore's boat, and ended in his finally conceding the next evening. <br />What to make of all this? Well, for starters, we really need to look into ways to improve our election process. It is absurd, in an era of computerized everything, that the exact results of an election cannot be known within mere hours of the polls closing. Also, the media need to rethink their procedures, especially the use of exit polls. And finally, perhaps we should reconsider the whole Electoral College. After all, Al Gore's principal moral claim during the whole debacle was that he'd won (by a narrow margin) the popular vote. Never mind that this could have been due to abovementioned media errors. The simple fact is, however, that presidential candidates compete, not for the national vote but rather for individual states. This drives their campaign strategy, such that Bush made little effort to compete in California and New York just as Gore paid little attention to Texas and most of the South and West. However, these concerns are beyond the scope of this book. The end result is that we were treated to the best and worst in American politics, embodied both in Gore's contemptible \\"win at any cost\\" behavior up to December 12th followed by a remarkably gracious final concession speech which Sammon introduces as follows \\"He'd finally had enough of fighting dirty. At 9:02 PM he stepped before the cameras and, to everyone's surprise, took the high road\\".	2002-03-06
US	50621794	RW0G85GY9D7Q8	067400633X	936848573	Public Intellectuals: A Study of Decline	Books	4	22	26	N	N	Thought Provoking	Mr. Posner raises the question: Why are we suffering from a lack of intellectual excellence? It's not hard to agree with his premise, ask any thinking person today to name a great mind in the public domain, and most people will be left scratching their heads. For centuries Western Civilization has produced talented people who have added to our intellectual tradition, ranging from Socrates (arguably the first \\"Public Intellectual\\") right through to George Orwell. But today, we seem to be at the mercy of a group of mental midgets and charlatans, people whose thoughts are geared more toward selling books and stirring up controversy than actually improving our intellectual landscape. <br />As proof of this, Posner quotes from intellectuals of both the political left and right. For example, in the Clinton impeachment, he points out that both sides put forth dire predictions which turned out to be wrong. Republicans predicted that failure to remove Clinton from office would result in moral chaos, while Democrats predicted the impeachment would bring on an era of sexual McCarthyism. As it turned out, the impeachment saga played itself out without any dramatic effects on American society. <br />More to the point, Posner rips into the rants of intellectuals from both sides of the political fence. He devotes the better part of an entire chapter deconstructing Robert Bork's \\"Slouching toward Gomorrah\\", but also spends plenty of time destroying the arguments of Dr. Paul Ehrlich and Noam Chomsky. He effectively argues that intellectuals who make dire predictions should be held accountable when their predictions fail to pan out. <br />In sum, this is not an easy read, but a very worthwhile one. If it has any weakness, it is that Posner provides no realistic remedy to the problem of intellectual sloppiness on the part of our so-called intellectuals. He suggests a Web Site that would keep track of their more bizarre pronouncements, but that really isn't the answer. What is really needed is a vigilant news media, one that will hold public intellectuals' feet to the fire and vigorously expose the frauds and charlatans among us.	2002-03-02
US	50621794	R2FQMSW4QHTXNK	0312284330	800097894	Crashing the Party: Taking on the Corporate Government in an Age of Surrender	Books	3	21	51	N	N	The Delusions of a Political Nut	There&#8217;s something about running for President as a fringe candidate that seems to bring out the Inner Nut in just about everyone who tries it. Recent examples include Pat Buchanan, Ross Perot and Alan Keyes, and then there&#8217;s the granddaddy of them all, Harold Strassen, a once respectable Minnesota politician who went on to run for President a record nine times and in the process become a national laughingstock. Which brings us to Ralph Nader, whose book here recounts his 2nd run for the White House in 2000. <br />First off, like the above named luminaries, Nader is so full of his own importance that he has basically lost touch with reality. He rails against the fact that he was not allowed in any of the debates. Well guess what? Neither were the Libertarian or Reform Party candidates. That&#8217;s what happens to you when you rate maybe 5% in the opinion polls. Even Perot was dropped from the &#8217;96 debates when it was obvious he&#8217;d lost most of the support he had four years earlier. <br />He also seems to be utterly clueless as to how democracy really works. He states that the final straw, which motivated him to run in &#8216;96, was when Bill Clinton signed a law ending the 55 mph speed limit, possibly the most disliked and least obeyed law since Prohibition. Which brings me to wonder: what part of &#8220;In a democracy, politicians generally tend to give the people what they want&#8221; don&#8217;t you understand, Ralph? <br />It doesn&#8217;t matter. Nader is a classic elitist posing as a populist. He also resembles the conspiracy theory nuts in that he has an excuse for everything. Nothing is ever his fault, and if his ideas have not gained mainstream acceptance, it must be, in his own mental universe, because powerful interests have stacked the deck against him, not because he is simply wrong. For example, he rails against the lack of socialized medicine, failing to take into account that it was introduced by none other than Hillary Clinton, debated by both Houses of Congress (controlled by Democrats at the time), and ultimately rejected as being unworkable. There was no mysterious plot, no villainous conspiracies at work, just the basic give and take, debate and compromise, which makes a democracy work. <br />This same head-in-the-clouds elitism pervades practically every page of this book. Nader wants a country where money has no influence in politics, business is regulated tighter than a Victorian era corset, where we have far less choice in what we buy, what we eat and drive, and in where everything he wants comes into being without anyone questioning his reasoning or his motives, completely oblivious (I hope) to the fact that only in a dictatorship could such results occur. Clearly we citizens are too dumb to decide what we want, and need &#8220;experts&#8221; like St. Ralph to save us from ourselves. Yes, Ralph, our own self anointed secular saint. It&#8217;s no wonder you never see the man smile, he&#8217;s too busy bearing all our burdens and crusading to bring Purity and Goodness to government to ever have a moment of fun. Unfortunately, such people usually make for lousy leaders, classic examples being Jimmy Carter and Oliver Cromwell. Fortunately, 98% of the American electorate seems to agree, since they voted for someone else. <br />But the same things that make him impossible as a realistic Presidential candidate also make him entertaining to read. Most politicians write in a bland style that resembles fast food &#8211; mushy, insipid, and above all, one that gives offense to no one. Not Nader. He&#8217;s a one-man bundle of outrage and indignation. Kooky he may be, but boring he certainly is not!	2002-02-15
US	50621794	R1HCV310NSRHM2	0446677450	156348512	Rich Dad, Poor Dad: What the Rich Teach Their Kids About Money--That the Poor and Middle Class Do Not!	Books	5	36	38	N	N	A philosophical approach to becoming rich	Go to any bookstore and you will find tons of books on how to make money, how to manage it, and how to &quot;get rich quick&quot;. What makes this book stand out is that it explains how to develop a philosophical approach to looking at money and how you use it. The author's outlook was shaped, as explained in the first chapter, by his two \\"Dads&quot;, one his real father, a well-educated bureaucrat who, despite earning a decent salary, never seemed to stay more than a few steps ahead of the bill collector. His other &quot;Dad&quot; was in fact the father of his best friend, a high school dropout who nonetheless went on to become one of the richest men in Hawaii. Naturally, it was this second Dad who passed on vital lessons of financial savvy, which allowed him to retire at 47.<br />His central premise is this - his \\"Poor Dad\\" (who he usually refers to as his \\"Educated Dad\\") followed the conventional road to success, namely, get good grades, go to college, then get a job with a large organization that provides good job security and benefits, yet in the end his Dad never broke out of what he calls the \\"Rat Race\\", the never ending cycle of paychecks, bills and debts in which he believes far too many Americans are stuck. In contrast, his \\"Rich Dad\\" focused on learning how to make money, and ended up handing his son a financial empire. From these dual role models he derived his own approach to becoming rich, which of course he lays out in his book. <br />At the core of his approach is the belief that, to become truly successful, one needs to become financially literate, to understand how to build assets and to structure your life so these assets (defined as anything which produces income) exceed one's liabilities (that which takes money out of your pocket) Unlike most money management gurus and authors, he doesn't delve into details and specific strategies (aside from recounting some of his own successes) but instead spends most of his time laying out a philosophic viewon the process of becoming wealthy. Because his central premise is simply this: The reason the rich are rich is because they view money differently than the rest of us. For example, his educated Dad advised him to climb the corporate ladder whereas his rich Dad asked simply \\"Why not OWN the ladder?\\" And make no mistake, he is writing to people who want to become RICH, not to folks who simply want to know how to buy mutual funds or set up a portfolio. And implicit in this is the desire to take risks, and follow the less traveled path. As a result, people who prefer safety and security will probably not like this book much.<br />Another group who won't like it are those on the political left. He makes clear he dislikes high taxes (or \\"working for the government\\" as he puts it) and finds them unproductive, since the truly rich can afford to hire top accountants and lawyers to shelter their cash thus leaving the educated upper-middle class to take the brunt of the tax burden. He clearly thinks being rich is a GOOD thing and that he doesn't like the government acting as if people like him are villains to be punished via the tax code. He also takes shots at the education establishment, which he charges as being archaic and designed mainly to produce good employees as opposed to teaching people to be financially literate. And, since he has a passion for dealing in real estate and uses examples of this to explain how he made money, some people may find this off-putting, thinking to themselves \\"I don't want to read a book about how to get rich in real estate!\\" while missing his larger points. Also, some people might take offense by reading into his book that he thinks most working and middle class people who work an honest job are chumps, but that also misses the point. I believe he is instead trying to say that most people, due to a lack of financial literacy, fail to seize opportunities and that what he really wants is to see more people living happier lives because they are controlling their money as opposed to being controlled by it.	2002-02-13
US	50621794	R32MLQCFHIPV8P	0871136228	12435871	Republican Party Reptile: The Confessions, Adventures, Essays, and (Other) Outrages of...	Books	4	21	22	N	N	Mixed, with a few gems	This book is somewhat of a mixed bag. Unlike some of his other works, this has no central theme, but is instead a motley collection of articles written over the years for various and sundry publications on subjects ranging from why he hates bicycles to chasing down a story in the Bahamas about the involvement of high government officials in the drug trade. A few are real clunkers, such as a fictionalized account of his family life back in Ohio, titled \\"The King of Sandusky\\" or an over the top piece called \\"Just one of those days\\" in which he portrays an executive whose daily routine includes gunfights with his neighbors, raping his secretary and setting off bombs on the subway in order to get to work on time (so his boss won't have him shot). Most are OK, like the aforementioned bicycle piece, which he wrote for \\"Car & Driver\\" magazine back in the mid 80's. It was funny at the time, lampooning bicycling just about the time it was becoming trendy, especially with the eco-weenie set. In fact, this article brought howls of protest in the form of letters in the following issue, thus basically making his point appear all the more valid, namely, that too many bike nuts at the time suffered from an acute overdose of self righteousness accompanied by a chronic lack of a sense of humor. Like I said, it was funny at the time, but now seems rather dated.<br />Still, this entire effort was greatly redeemed by a few pieces that were absolutely spot on. One was \\"Ship of Fools\\" in which our intrepid reporter signed up for a cruise ship tour on the Volga in the USSR, based on an ad he'd read in \\"The Nation\\" magazine. He joins up with myriad groups of American leftists whose desire to see Soviet life in the best possible light overwhelms any qualities of observation or common sense they might happen to possess. These unfortunates are the targets of PJ's satire at its absolute best as he rips into them repeatedly for their blatant toadying on behalf of the Soviet system. Rarely has the banality of evil been described with such zest.<br />But even this pales in comparison to the book's crown jewel, namely a short article entitled simply \\"Ferrari refutes the Decline of The West\\". It is, on one level, a great road trip story, in which he and his boss drive from New York to LA in a brand new Ferrari 308GTS at speeds as high as 140 mph. Anyone who's ever lusted after exotic sports cars, or fantasized about driving on public roads at double or even triple the speed limit will love it on a purely visceral level, but that's only part of the pleasure, since PJ uses this drive as a metaphor for what makes Western Civilization, and America specifically, great. PJ describes an encounter with a black salesman in a Cadillac on the top of Hoover Dam in which the latter, after hearing their account of blazing through Arizona and New Mexico, looks at the Ferrari and says, simply, \\"Goddam, that's BEAUTIFUL!\\" PJ states, after finally turning over the car to a Hollywood studio \\"It was a glow that wouldn't fade. And I still felt good when I flipped the keys to the receptionist ...... And in fact I still feel good today.\\" So will you after reading it, it is, in fact, worth the price of the entire book.	2002-01-30
US	50621794	R14WNUNLK8AERD	0895261901	148709607	Bias: A CBS Insider Exposes How the Media Distort the News	Books	5	11	15	N	N	An important book	This is an important book, not because it's the first to expose the political biases inherent in today's mainstream news media, but because of the credibility of the author, a veteran reporter with CBS News. He's not an outsider with an axe to grind, but a man whose entire career has been in the news business, a man who knows the people, the motives, and the attitudes that drive network news. Unlike some critics from the Right, he's not naive (or angry) enough to think that reporters and network execs wake up every day plotting how to impose their left wing politics on the country while doing everything in their power to thwart the agendas of Republicans and right wing activists. As he explains it, the reasons behind media bias are much more subtle.<br />For example, most people in the news media simply are not aware of any &quot;bias&quot; at all. If they happen to be prochoice on abortion, favor gun control, affirmative action (provided, of course, it doesn't affect them or keep their kids out of a top Ivy League college) and overwhelmingly vote for Democrats, that's only because they live in an environment where EVERYONE feels the same way. In short, to them, their views are &quot;mainstream&quot;, and therefore it is the &quot;others&quot;, the pro-life, NRA member, Republican voting dwellers of flyover country that are the extremists. Thus Dan Rather, when asked about media bias, can say, with a straight face, that he has no idea what the questioner is talking about. In short, the problem is not one of conscious planning and intent, but is simply &quot;hard wired&quot; into the people who make up the news media. <br />Speaking of Rather, he certainly does not come off well in this book. The author describes him as a paranoid martinet, a man who once took on Richard Nixon only to, later in life, take on some of the qualities of Nixon, most notably his obsession with enemies, either real or imaginary. In 1996, the author wrote an Op-Ed piece in the Wall Street Journal that criticized what he saw as slanted coverage on the CBS Evening News of the flat tax plan from then GOP candidate Steve Forbes. Apparently Rather took this as a personal attack on his authority as CBS anchorman, despite the fact that the news piece was done by a reporter named Eric Engberg. At any rate, Rather never forgave Goldberg for this transgression and, unfortunately, he has so much clout at CBS that none of Goldberg's colleagues dared come to his defense, at least not publicly (to his credit, Andy Rooney wrote him a very supportive letter). <br />In fact, it might be argued that the greatest service Mr. Goldberg renders in his book is pointing out, not the political biases, but rather the attitudes of arrogance, complacency, and mindless conformity that exist in network newsrooms. Dan Rather, along with his counterparts at ABC and NBC, are shown as prima donnas, treated like royalty, fed multi-million dollar contracts, and completely insulated by yes-men from anything occurring in the real world. Thus, when challenged by a mere peon like Goldberg, Mr. Rather could afford to circle his wagons and plot against the &quot;traitor&quot; within, instead of taking a good, hard cold look at why political bias, among a number of other factors, has been causing a nonstop drop in viewership of the Big Three network news programs. It is most ironic to read Mr. Goldberg describe how Walter Cronkite handed off to Dan Rather the top rated news program in America, only to see it sink to 3rd place under Mr. Rather's stewardship. In fact, one would think that the folks at CBS would be eager to listen to critics like Goldberg, if nothing else but to help figure out how to get back on top. Instead, they'd rather (pun intended) live in denial, and blame the messenger for the bad news instead of looking within to fix the problem.	2002-01-19
US	50621794	R35UMWKCDI7KDN	0679735771	92932803	American Psycho	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Too much	I admit up front to a certain bias - I saw the film version of &quot;American Psycho&quot; first, and LOVED it. Not that the book is bad per se, but the movie is simply so much better as to make it look mediocre by comparison. It takes the basic theme of the book, namely a very dark, biting satire on the Yuppie culture and its obsession with status, and packaged it in a more subtle, nuanced manner while conveying the basic mood brilliantly with visuals and music. But enough of that, this is a book review, not a movie review. <br />My principal problem with the book is that it simply bludgeons its points home again and again until the reader is just plain numb. At the start, the principal character (Pat Batemen) describes, in obsessive detail, every piece of clothing, accessory, restaurant offering, and entertainment equipment he comes in contact with. This is fine for setting up his basic character (i.e., infatuated with status, and having the Best of Everything) but when he's still doing it on page 100, 200, 300, etc., well, it gets old. And of course there's the violence. To his credit, Ellis is subtle - initially. We get the casual comment or reference with clues us in to the idea there's more to Bateman than his &quot;perfect&quot; young Wall Street hotshot image. Gradually, the violence builds, as each attack becomes more overt and sadistic than the last. Initially this works well as a literary technique, however, there seems to be a point where Ellis just goes over the top. The violence gets so out of hand as to become ridiculous, in fact, it reminds one of the scene with the immensely fat man barfing gallons of puke all over a restaurant in &quot;Monty Python's Meaning of Life&quot;. In short, it's just TOO much, Ellis indulging in gratuitous overkill apparently for the sake of pure shock value. In contrast, the filmmakers convey Bateman's basic psychosis and sadism without turning the story into an all out gross-fest. <br />Anyway, the book is by no means bad, the basic premise is solid. But if you really want to enjoy the &quot;American Psycho&quot; experience, see the movie instead.	2002-01-08
US	50621794	R1KL0WDTQ9CEG5	0842329250	316218934	Soul Harvest: The World Takes Sides (Left Behind No. 4)	Books	1	27	42	N	N	Slow, boring, dumb	This book starts off as Buck and Captain Ray search for their wives on opposite sides of the Earth, following the gigantic \\"Wrath of the Lamb\\" earthquake. It takes nearly 300 pages for Buck to locate his wife, while in all that time Ray does nothing but convert his co-pilot and arrange to get ahold of some scuba gear to see if his wife died in a plane crash into the Tigris River. What's my point? All of this \\"action\\" could very well have taken place in the first chapter alone. The pacing in this book is about as fast as your average glacier. Anyway, things pick up a bit in the last third of the book. Buck and a pilot friend go off to Denver to rescue Hattie, and nearly get killed. Ray finally gets to dive in the wreckage of a 747 to look for his wife. Carpathia plots against the fake Pope, Peter Mathews. And God sends a humongous 1000-mile wide asteroid to crash into the Earth. Two, in fact, one of sulfur and one of rotten wood. <br />OK, so this book [is bad]. Thank God I got it at the library for free. Un-Christian though it may sound, I tend to suspect the authors and the publisher are in cahoots to drag this series out as long as possible, to milk every last dollar they can out of the chumps who actually spend their own money to read this stuff. Furthermore, the writing is rife with basic factual errors. Considering that several of the main characters are pilots, the authors make little effort to learn anything about aviation. For instance, when Buck and his pilot friend Ken try to fly to Minneapolis in Ken's Learjet to locate Buck's wife, they take off from a golf course! Any pilot will tell you this is absurd, even in a landscape that hasn't just been ravaged by an earthquake. And a 1000 mile wide asteroid would have become visible hundreds of millions of miles from Earth, not a mere few hours before impact as described in the book. Finally, the whole plot line has an aura of unreality to it. Despite having just suffered the worst disaster in the history of the Earth, within a few days of the earthquake Buck is flying into Minneapolis St. Paul Airport, talking to air traffic control and arranging a rental car, all as if nothing of import had happened. Of course they also seem to have no problem buying food and taking care of their other basic needs. At no point do we get the sense that people have just survived a truly devastating event, instead it seems that life gets back to \\"normal\\" very quickly. <br />But all this pales in comparison to the basic premise of the \\"Left Behind\\" books. And that is this: We are expected to believe that we should love and revere a God who is basically a sadistic psycho. I mean, the whole Tribulation is God's way of getting us wayward humans to love, accept, and follow him. For seven years, according to these books, God will win our affection and loyalty by unleashing a series of horrors upon us. God is basically like a sick stalker; if we refuse to love him then he will terrorize us until we do. When humans act this way we put them in jail or an insane asylum. It would seem that humankind is more evolved and civilized than the God described by Messr's Jenkins and LaHaye .....	2001-09-25
US	50621794	R2GUMD15RCBZNI	039914563X	225323965	The Bear and the Dragon	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Lacking originality	It's been awhile since I've paid for a Clancy book, mostly I just wait till I can check them out at the library for free. Which was a wise decision in the case of his latest effort. Not that it was bad per se, however, while it delivered the basics in terms of readability and entertainment value, one really should expect a lot more from one of America's best selling authors. In short, Clancy is just coasting on the reputation he built up with his initial novels, knowing full well that just about anything with his name on the cover will hit the best seller lists, so why try any harder than he has to? <br />This is a shame, and the result is a series of books which, much like the &quot;Lethal Weapon&quot; or &quot;Die Hard&quot; movies, succeeds mainly by sticking to a predictable formula. It basically goes like this: Bad guys will cook up a scheme to wreak havoc on the civilized world, this scheme will eventually be detected by the good guys (led by Jack Ryan) who, after suffering some initial setbacks, will win the day with a combination of high tech wizardry and good old John Wayne style guts. Which is Ok as far as it goes, however Clancy, having made more money than God with his novels, film royalties, video games, etc., is surely in a position to take some risks, and expand his craft as a writer. Unfortunately, he seems content to follow the easy route, and stick with a tried and true, if uncreative, formula. <br />Anyway, the gist of this book is this. A handful of warlords in mainland China decide they want to seize some very valuable oilfields and gold mines in Far Eastern Siberia. They plot an invasion, and in due time, set in it motion. Of course, they are, in the end, utterly defeated (Oh, I know that's considered a &quot;spoiler&quot;, but let's be honest, does anyone have the least doubt that this is the final outcome?) and Jack Ryan, John Clark, Ed &amp; Mary Pat Foley, and a host of lesser characters triumph in the end. There are, of course, the trademark battle scenes in which the Good Guys utilize the latest technology to win the day, just as surely as Bond can be expected to vanquish SPECTRE thanks in large part to Q's ingenious gadgets. Like I said, pure formula, and Clancy, I suppose, can at least be credited for making the formula work in producing yet another best seller.<br />Too bad he didn't try harder. He does attempt to grapple with some genuinely tough foreign policy issues, and he also has the guts to put China's population control policy in an appropriately negative light. Unfortunately, that's as far as it goes. No question that the current Chinese leadership are villains with the blood of Tianamnen Square fresh on their hands, however, I very much doubt they are are as stupid and simple minded as Clancy makes them out to be. His ending (another spoiler) in which Chinese students peacefully seize power from the Politburo seems entirely contrived. The whole thing is just entirely too simplistic, one gets the impression that Clancy made little effort to actually learn about how the Chinese government, authoritarian though it may be, actually functions. Its leaders may indeed be evil, but I very much doubt they are the buffoons Clancy makes them out to be. The future of relations between China and the USA is still very much up in the air. Hopefully, in due time, they will choose to join the rest of the civilized world in terms of supporting individual liberty and human rights, but as far as this novel goes, instead of taking a serious look at how this process might evolve, settles for giving us yet another cliched &quot;Techno-thriller&quot;.	2001-03-27
US	50621794	R32LO27DXA9R9P	0764552317	892581938	Personal Finance For Dummies (Personal Finance for Dummies, 3rd ed)	Books	5	60	61	N	N	A solid overview of the basics	This book is the financial equivalent of a weight loss book that rejects fad diets and instead advises you to stick to the fundamentals, such as getting regular exercise and eating more lean foods like fruits and vegetables. In this book, Tyson lays out the basics of personal finance, namely, eliminate &quot;bad&quot; debt, reduce frivolous spending, invest wisely, and start saving for future expenses such as  retirement, home ownership, and children's education. He has no agenda to push, so he is free to warn his readers of the risks of taking investment advice from those who do. And it is  written in a clear style that is easily understood by even the least financially savvy reader.<br />Of course, some of his advice will meet with resistance in consumer happy America. For instance, he recommends never buying consumer items such as cars on credit, because the car itself (unlike a house) has no investment potential, and the interest you are paying on the loan is not going to further your own long term financial health. In theory, this makes perfect sense, but in practice, most people simply cannot afford to buy their first car with cash (not if they want a new one) and a used car can be a maintenance nightmare if the previous owner didn't take care of it properly. Other advice is questionable, such as buying your groceries only at &quot;club&quot; stores like Sam's Club. Well, that's nice if you're feeding an army, but most young, single people don't want to buy their peanut butter by the barrel and lug these huge packages up several flights of stairs to their apartments, and will gladly pay a  bit more for the convenience of getting goods in quantities they can actually use.<br />But these minor nitpicks aside, this is a fine introductory work. There are so many books out there on investing and personal finance, and it is a relief to find one that sticks to basic, common sense fundamentals instead of trying to entice you into the latest investment fad. In short, this is a terrific place to start for a person who wants to get started on the path to smart long term money management.this is a terrific place to start for a person who wants to get started on the path to smart long term money management.	2001-02-24
US	50621794	R24W1JAKB5FCM2	0385499345	475272008	The Lexus and the Olive Tree: Understanding Globalization	Books	3	8	14	N	N	A good read, but with serious flaws	This book is, on the whole, a pretty decent effort to describe, in layman's terms, the economic trends which are guiding our new &quot;Global Economy,&quot; and assessing what effects, both good and bad, this will have on the world's nations and cultures. For example, he explains that globalized high tech capitalism will be THE driving economic force in the years to come, and the nations and the people of the world need to face up to it, not hide their heads in the sand. For example, he explains how nations that best adapt to (and, therefore, benefit from) this new economic system will be those who get rid of corruption in government, allow the free exchange of ideas, and so forth. He admits there are downsides to these changes, rapid modernization is destabilizing, both individually (to workers in &quot;old tech&quot; industries who are no longer in demand) and communally, as old, established cultures are jerked into a world in which the only constant is continual change. In short, what Friedman brings to the bulk of this book are a combination of common sense, good reportage, an a decent effort at fairness and balance. <br />There are, of course, a number of nits to pick. He uses a series of terms to explain various concepts he is trying to get across, expressions like &quot;The Electronic Herd,&quot; &quot;The Golden Straitjacket,&quot; and so forth. Initially, these are helpful in that they convey ideas without exposing the reader to a bunch of complicated economic-ese. However, it does not take long for these to become cliched and quite tiresome. It's as if Friedman, so pleased with his own cleverness in coining these terms, has fallen in love with the sound of his own wittiness. Worse, in many respects, his insights are rather shallow. While it is nice that he thinks China will soon become much like America and Western Europe in terms of prosperity and economic savvy, he entirely neglects to look at the political dimension, namely, the country is still very much a political dictatorship. And dictators tend not to care much about Lexuses or olive trees, except to exploit both to further secure their own power. <br />But by far the worst part of the book is the end. This is where the &quot;reasonable&quot; Friedman takes a sabbatical, and the arrogant demagogue fills the void. He puts aside his balance and fairness and starts spewing partisan diatribes against everything from the NRA to Congressmen who prefer to take seriously their jobs as public servants by not wasting the taxpayers money on overseas &quot;fact finding&quot; junkets. He sneers at the latter as unsophisticated rubes who don't want to take the effort to learn about the world. It obviously never occurred to Friedman that a lot of these politicians were elected in 1994 precisely because the voters were sick of the sort of arrogance in which Congressmen and other government officials treated the taxpayers money as their personal ticket to the high life, and that many of those &quot;fact finding&quot; trips were little more than excuses to take exotic vacations on the public dime. And he all but accuses the NRA of being co-conspirators in the Columbine massacre. Of course, what would Friedman, who hobnobs with prime ministers and Cabinet members, know about the typical NRA member, who is probably a working class duck hunter or trap shooter? Anyway - note to Mr. Friedman: Next time you write a book, stick to the facts, and save the political editorializing for private drinking sessions between you and your elitist friends. The rest of us don't want to read this garbage.	2001-02-02
US	50621794	R2QC4B7ASQ6YP0	0670891576	624836488	In the Heart of the Sea: The Tragedy of the Whaleship Essex	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An amazing, horrifying true sea tale	This is the true story that inspired Melville to write &quot;Moby Dick&quot;. A Nantucket whaleship, the Essex, is rammed by a sperm whale in the Pacific, thousands of miles from land. The crew escape in 3 whaleboats, and begin a voyage that is both inspiring and terrifying. Afraid of supposed cannibals on the islands to the west, they resolve to sail south and east, to the shore of South America, fighting both the prevailing winds and their own meager supplies of food and fresh water. I will not spoil the ending of this ordeal with further details, suffice it to say the reader is in for a recounting of both tragedy and perseverence that easily ranks with such modern classics as &quot;The Perfect Storm&quot; and &quot;Into Thin Air&quot;.	2001-01-30
US	50621794	R3SXZ7PJQN02HI	0871136864	799186474	The Bachelor Home Companion: A Practical Guide to Keeping House Like a Pig (O'Rourke, P. J.)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Should get 6 out of 5 stars	This book is absolutely hilarious! I'm a big fan of PJ's, so how did I miss this little gem until now? Anyway, this book had me literally LOL (Laughing Out Loud) as I read it in my own bachelor apartment. PJ has captured the essence of bachelordom, namely, we are all basically mischievous boys at heart who love chaos and disorder. PJ on cooking - &quot;If you think of it as setting fire to things and making a mess, it's fun&quot;. His recipes alone will leave you in stitches. And he provides all sorts of ready excuses for putting off anything related to cleaning or keeping up one's residence. This especially rang true as I surveyed my own humble abode and thought &quot;You know, I kinda LIKE having all that clutter on the floor, it makes the place looked lived in.&quot; This book is simply required reading for anyone who's experienced the joys of sharing an off campus apartment with two other complete slobs, where beer cans and empty pizza boxes are the primary forms of interior decoration. Let's just say it's a pleasant trip down memory lane for any healthy, red blooded American male, and should get 6 out of 5 stars if such a thing were possible!	2001-01-19
US	50621794	R32IBHICZKYIF3	0842329129	46316172	Left Behind: A Novel of the Earth's Last Days (Left Behind No. 1)	Books	4	34	38	N	N	A good start, but poor followup	About halfway through this book a preacher tells his flock what they can expect during the &quot;Tribulation&quot; which has just begun, namely, a series of Judgments which only get worse as time goes on. Unfortunately, the same can be said for the writing in this series. Which is a shame, since the first book is actually quite good, if judged on its own terms. <br />First off, it is written from the perspective that, according to Biblical prophesy, we are about to enter the &quot;End Times,&quot; a seven year period of time in which the Antichrist comes to power on Earth. If this sort of religious literalism turns you off, you'd best not try reading this book. On the other hand, if you can accept this, and ignore certain episodes of plot silliness (such as a bizarre Russian attack on Israel), this book is a fine read. Certainly there is plenty of drama as the characters have to deal with the reality of a mass vanishing of millions of people, as well as the rise of a Clintonian style politician from Romania who, despite starting as a minor member of his country's parliament, seems destined to become the leader of the entire planet. That, plus the knowledge that, in just a few years, the Earth will suffer a series of disasters that will dwarf anything in human history, and all the makings of a terrific thriller are here in spades. And this book, the first in a series which now numbers eight volumes, delivers the goods.<br />Unfortunately, the rest of the books in this series just fall flat. The characters are never developed beyond what we see in the first book, and worse, the series seems to descend to a level of shallowness that becomes positively insulting to the intelligence of the reader. Despite living in times of great terror and suffering, one never gets the sense that anyone actually experiences this in any meaningful way. People simply bounce from one adventure and location to another like characters in a James Bond movie. Not to mention, the plot is dragged out waaaay too long. There are supposedly going to be 12 books in all when the series is completed, which at about 400 pages a book, works out to almost 5,000 pages, of which perhaps 4,000 could be edited out with no loss at all to the reader. <br />To be perfectly honest, a savvy reader could save himself a lot of times (and money) by simply reading &quot;Left Behind&quot;, then getting the non-fiction work &quot;Are we living in the End Times?&quot; by the same authors, which will at least satisfy your curiosity on the final outcome without having to hack your way through eleven more volumes, the last of which won't even be out for at least another year or two.	2001-01-04
US	50621794	R2ZBZKLBGBXU8T	1579543022	257618958	Imagine: What America Could Be in the 21st Century	Books	2	10	43	N	N	More New Age BS	This book is an entertaining read - if you want to know what a handful of elitist, out of touch Euphorians think America should be by the middle of this century. Otherwise, use it as a door stop, boat anchor, or birdcage liner. <br />Seriously, there is little of interest for the thoughtful reader, one who is reasonably well educated and knowledgeable about history, politics, and human nature. A major flaw of this book is that there is little actual diversity of thought and opinion, most of the  essays could have been written by the same person and we never would have known the difference, so similar are the authors' world views. Why weren't other voices added, such as Colin Powell on foreign affairs or Alan Greenspan on economic matters? Instead we get this syrupy goo, the literary equivalent of &quot;can't we all just have a group hug and sing 'Kumbaya' together?&quot;. Sorry, but the world, and our role in it, demands a more serious, realistic, and sober minded approach. The problems we face heading into this new century, issues like racial tensions, terrorism, and the struggle of societies trying to preserve their cultures and values against the relentless march of the high speed cyber-economy cannot be resolved with airy platitudes and Utopian dreams. After all, I too can imagine what the world will look like in 50 years, and while there will undoubtedly be improvements, especially in technology, the basics of human nature will change not one bit. We will still have to deal with tyrants, political and religious fanatics, criminals, drug and alcohol abuse, corruption, ethnic strife, and a host of other problems, none of which can be solved with a pie in the sky &quot;Can't we all just get along&quot; approach.	2001-01-03
US	50621794	R1ICIOE0JSYQLB	0965296601	280558112	Al Franken Is a Buck-Toothed Moron: And Other Observations	Books	4	12	23	N	N	A good poke at the politically correct set.	This book is not as funny as PJ O'Rourke (the political Right's master satirist) when he's on a roll, but gets in some good shots, not only at Franken (who, for a humorist, sure seems to be awfully self righteous about  his own politics) but at Democrats and liberals in general, exposing and  lampooning their various follies and pretensions. Judging by the nasty  comments from many on the left side of the fence, it does seem to have  struck a nerve. Which is what good political satire should do.	2000-03-31
US	50621794	R3C642JWR97ZPE	0877033463	23515922	Prospects for Interstellar Travel (Science and Technology Series No. 80)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A solid technical look at human starflight prospects	This book presents, in technical terms understandable to most any engineering or science major, the prospects and problems involved with planning an actual interstellar space mission. The bad news, for devotees  of Star Trek and others who hope we can easily cross large sections of the  Galaxy at will just a few centuries from now, is that the basic laws of  physics and engineering as we currently understand them simply rule this  out. At best, we are limited to the notion of a relatively slow,  multi-generation spacecraft to reach even the closest stars. The author  examines, in detail, the different options available for propelling such a  ship, and the engineering and human design factors for making it  functional. The writing style is a bit dry, but the technical analysis is  thorough, yet not overwhelming for one who is not a specialist in the  field. Perhaps the ultimate message of this book is that star flight  dreamers may have to lower their expectations of &quot;warp drives&quot;  and jumps into &quot;hyperspace&quot;, or else hope for unexpected  breakthroughs in spaceflight technology, ones that will allow us to bypass  limits as we currently understand them and someday give us the capability  for true, practical high speed travel to the stars.	2000-02-10
US	50621794	R2BY5YP2SX63H3	0671541447	891160076	National Lampoon's Doon	Books	5	7	8	N	N	An excellent send-up!	I'd read the original &quot;Dune&quot;, along with most of the sequels, back in college. By the time I got to about the 4th or 5th book, the ponderous mysticism and self absorbed seriousness were starting to get  really annoying. This stuff just begged to be satirized, and  &quot;Doon&quot; was the perfect antidode! The funny names, the substitute  of beer and frat party imagery for the original &quot;spice&quot; were spot  on and absolutely hilarious! Best of all was the dramatic fight scene in  which Mauve Bib (aka &quot;Assol&quot;) defeats his foe in a duel of ever  nastier put downs. Like &quot;Bored of the Rings&quot;, this is a first  rate send up of a Sci-Fi/fantasy classic, and should offend only those who  take the original WAY too seriously!	1999-12-12
US	50621794	RNUTLT09HEPVK	0399143904	626650351	Rainbow Six	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Clancy returns to form	Not his best, but Clancy is definitely getting back in the groove after several disappointing efforts. Thankfully, the ever annoying Jack Ryan barely rates mention here. Instead, the book focuses on a small band of  environmental extremists and their plans to &quot;save&quot; the planet  from mankind. The plot is well presented, and to his credit, Clancy takes  his time in revealing the full extent of the connection between a series of  terrorist attacks and the environuts master plan. We, the readers, get to  savor the way the suspense and mystery build, and then are finally  resolved. Of course, there's the usual Clancy trademarks - two dimensional  characters and far fetched premises (one wonders how realistic the  environmentalist wackoes plans are, but the same applies for a sub full of  defecting Soviet officers (Red October) or a war on the US declared by  Japan in the mid 1990's (Debt of Honor)) but the basic premise is an  intruiging one - namely, what if a bunch of people as utterly devoted to  extreme environmentalism as people once were to Hitler or Marxism decided  to pull out all the stops to achieve their goals? The ending was mildly  disappointing, with a Clancy-esque shootout as opposed to exploring the  deeper philosophical issues at hand (namely, how should mankind deal with  people whose ideology overrides their basic humanity), but overall the book  hit the spot. And it was certainly an improvement over the past few Clancy  efforts, which seemed to be little more than caricatures of earlier Clancy  works.	1999-12-05
