US	50626947	R1C3E51HXX17GL	0060194464	447220014	Holding Back the Sea: The Struggle for America's Natural Legacy on the Gulf Coast	Books	5	5	5	N	N	IThe book shows that not enough people cared enough	This book is an admirable discussion of the destruction of Louisiana's wetlands, the effects up to the year 2001, and the probable disastrous consequences for the future, including those that have now resulted from Hurricane Katrina. <br /> <br />In the aftermath of Katrina there will be many efforts to assign blame, both by the media and by politicians. This book serves as necessary background for understanding what really happened, and how it came to pass. <br /> <br />My own view, partly formed from this book, but also from various other knowledge of Southern Louisiana and changes over the years in that area, is that no one person or group should be blamed for the results of Katrina. Those were foreseeable and were foreseen, and remedial measures to reduce the impact of a major hurricane striking Louisiana's coastal areas and the city of New Orleans were well understood, as were their costs. So how did the catastrophe predicted in this book occur, despite widespread knowledge? Remedial measures could not have prevented very serious losses from such a hurricane, but the losses could have been greatly reduced; however, the remedial measures to achieve that would have been extremely expensive, and no group, whether of citizens, of advocates, of corporations, of legislators, of bureaucrats, or of federal or state officials, felt that expnditure of all that money, which would also have had some adverse effects, was important enough to take priority over numerous other major expenditures for the welfare of the poulation, the economy, and the environment. After the catastrophe, of course, comes the finger-pointing. But if my view is correct, the extent of this catastrophe is mostly due to the fact that hardly anyone anywhere was willing to fight for the extremely expensive remedial measures that would have limited it. This book is a somber reminder that although in most respects our private and public institutional structures in the USA work extremely well, in some cases such as this one they do not put priority on mitigating enormous risks. <br /> <br />Read this book and weep! (And ask yourself which other equally well-known risks of catastrophe we are taking no steps to mitigate.)	2005-09-02
US	50626947	R2MHDPXKDJRWA2	0821816462	265221230	Algebra (AMS Chelsea Publishing)	Books	5	171	173	N	N	Superb, if read with the right outlook	Birkhoff and MacLane collaborated for much of their careers, and their \\"A Survey of Modern Algebra\\", first published in 1941, was an easy-to-read, easy-to-teach-from, easy-to-learn-from early fruit of their collaboration. This jointly written book \\"Algebra\\", first published in 1967 and vastly improved in the 3rd Edition, can be far more difficult to tackle unless one goes at it with understanding of how to approach it. It mostly reflects MacLane's approach, rather than Birkhoff's, and MacLane was not only brilliant, but unusual among pure mathematicians, perhaps even idiosyncratic; he finally died at an advanced age a few months ago, and his passion for his field is reflected in the fact that he continued to advise graduate students well into his 90s, just as he had advised me (and criticized my thinking incessantly) as a graduate student more than 50 years before.<br /><br />MacLane was far less interested in any particular topic in mathematics, although he was a master of many, than he was in how one should think about mathematics to understand it, do it on one's own, extend it, and most important of all, recognize when one had fully though through a problem and solved it, as contrasted to having merely produced a plausible discussion of it.<br /><br />I know of no book on pure mathematics more worth reading than this one, but in contrast to some other reviewers who are probably clearer thinkers than I, I have to tackle it with great patience and care. The secret of grasping it without getting bogged down is to keep constantly in mind that MacLane filled in details without being much interested in them except as necessary completion of exposition. So, when you read it, do not concentrate on details; concentrate on overall structure of thought and exposition and then, later, come back to absorb details. That was how MacLane worked, and that was how he tried to teach his students to work. The key question always in his mind was: what formulation of axioms and structure is fruitful for attacking the topic at hand, and how can we use that formulation to create an inexorable train of thought leading to important results? This book, \\"Algebra\\" is very much a reflection of that way of thinking.<br /><br />So, when you first read this book, skip freely over much of the development of particular topics. Instead, spend a great deal of time thinking about definitions, and about the precise way in which key theorems are stated. Spend time and effort exploring the question of why seemingly trivial variations of these would be less fruitful, or could even lead one into error. Skip from one part of the book to another, without getting bogged down in any one part. Ask yourself also why certain topics and certain cases are excluded. E.g. right at the beginning of the discussion of quadratic forms is a simple definition which begins: \\"If V is a finite dimensional vector space over a field F of characteristic not 2, ...\\" Pause right there and ponder over why fields of characteristic 2 are excluded from this definition; just skim the next ten pages without studying them. If you think hard enough to see why fields of characteristic 2 must be excluded from the discussion, the entire ensuing discussion of quadratic forms becomes crystal clear.<br /><br />Once you have mastered the style in which the material is presented, you can quite easily come back and follow the details. And if you do that, I hope you will find this ook as rewarding as I have.ructure is fruitful for attacking the topic at hand, and how can we use that formulation to create an inexorable train of thought leading to important results? This book, \\"Algebra\\" is very much a reflection of that way of thinking. <br /> <br />So, when you first read this book, skip freely over much of the development of particular topics. Instead, spend a great deal of time thinking about definitions, and about the precise way in which key theorems are stated. Spend time and effort exploring the question of why seemingly trivial variations of these would be less fruitful, or could even lead one into error. Skip from one part of the book to another, without getting bogged down in any one part. Ask yourself also why certain topics and certain cases are excluded. E.g. right at the beginning of the discussion of quadratic forms is a simple definition which begins: \\"If V is a finite dimensional vector space over a field F of characteristic not 2, ...\\" Pause right there and ponder over why fields of characteristic 2 are excluded from this definition; just skim the next ten pages without studying them. If you think hard enough to see why fields of characteristic 2 must be excluded from the discussion, the entire ensuing discussion of quadratic forms becomes crystal clear. <br /> <br />Once you have mastered the style in which the material is presented, you can quite easily come back and follow the details. And if you do that, I hope you will find this ook as rewarding as I have.	2005-08-15
US	50626947	R3AQT7KCUHE88W	0143035754	973558666	The Hollow Crown: A History of Britain in the Late Middle Ages	Books	3	17	18	N	N	Excellent, informative, but difficult reading	This book gives an admirable portrayal of diplomacy, politics, economics, social arrangements, and life styles in 14th and 15th Century England; I learned a great deal from it. However, it assumes considerable familiarity with both English history and European history of that period, and in several places I found myself lacking background for understanding the significance of what Rubin relates. For example, although I'm familiar with some of the course of the Hundred Years War, I found myself lacking background on details of Edward III's campaigns needed to follow Rubin's discussion. Likewise, I wish I understood what parcels of England were controlled by such magnates as the Duke of Lancaster, whose lands were scattered across much of England, but  I don't happen to know that. In a few cases where I do happen to have the requisite knowledge I found myself wondering what fraction of readers will. For example, her treatment of the years in which the \\"black death\\" initially reduced population in England, and in Europe overall, by perhaps a third, assumes considerable familiarity with the onset and spread of that pandemic and with its varying impact on diferent regions; I happen to have studied this recently, but how many readers will have recently refreshed their knowledge of that topic? <br /> <br />My other problem with the book is that Rubin uses quite a number of words without definition that were current in the period she discusses, but which had already fallen out of use by the end of the 16th Century; I found my vocabulary inadequate to grasp the meaning of a number of these. The book would benefit greatly by a glossary; not everyone has the OED, and those who do may by somewhat irritated in reading this book to have to consult the OED every few pages to find out how some word was used in the 14th Century. <br /> <br />On the other hand, Rubin's careful discssion of Wycliffe, of \\"Lollards\\", and of \\"Lollardy\\", enabled me to grasp for the first time in my life the complexities of that topic as it applies to England. In this, and in various other respects, I learned much. <br /> <br />I'm glad to have this book, and will undoubtedly read it again, but I wish it weren't such a tough read for me. Before I do read it again, I'll have to turn to other books to fill the gaps in my knowledge that made Rubin's book hard for me to follow.	2005-08-15
US	50626947	R2F9JL84IWNO4E	0312181000	388137293	The Future of War: Power, Technology and American World Dominance in the Twenty-first Century	Books	2	70	75	N	N	Entertaing, thought-provoking, but kind of silly	\\"The Future of War\\" predicts US dominance of warfare throughout the 21st Century, as a result of US advanced technology in general and precision weaponry in particular. Their train of thought has considerable merit, and deserves reading and thoughtful attention. However, the book suffers from the same two major flaws as most books by visionaries without enough practical experience: misunderstanding of specific happenings in the past, and unlikely projections into the far future. Having been involved with US defense for 50 years, as a member of the military, as a designer and developer and advisor on US weaponry, and as an advisor on strategic, operational and tactical issues, I read this book with considerable amusement, although I do take seriously much of what it says. I shall give specifics on two failures to understand the details of the past, and then offer criticism of two of the book's projections, as examples. <br /> <br />Past episode #1: The 1991 precision strikes against Iraq. There is no doubt that our air strikes and land attacks in the 1991 campaign to liberate Kuwait were exceedingly effective, and there is no doubt that this effectiveness was largely due to our precision weaponry. However, to do precision strikes, whether with airborne munitions or ground forces, it's necessary to know what targets to attack, where they are, and what weapons are likely to be effective against a particular target. In the 1991 campaign, this effort was undertaken by the \\"Jeddi Knights\\", largely under the guidance of Col. John Warden. The key role of the \\"Jeddi Knights\\" was to establish priorities and mission profiles for which targets to strike when with what munitions, and they did this extraordinarily well. What the Friedmans obviously don't know is the amount of detailed information that was available to the \\"Jeddi Knights\\", carefully acquired over the 70 years preceding the campaign, first by the British until about 1950, and thereafter by the US military. The armed forces of major powers assume they may have to fight wars on short notice aganst opponents who have been designated shortly before by national authorities, so they invest a great deal in gathering information pertinent to how various campaigns might be conducted. In the case of Iraq, the British did very careful mapping from 1920 until about 1950, producing \\"ordnance\\" maps of higher detail and accuracy than exist even for some parts of the United States, and these were invaluable to planners. Then, starting in about 1950, when it began to seem possible that the US might someday have to fight somewhere in the Middle East, the US military carefully gathered information relevant to how a campaign might be fought, and which potential enemy targets should be candidates for destruction. These studies resided in US intelligence and military archives until the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait, and were then used as the basis for planning the campaign. <br /> <br />Two examples of this. First, the destruction of certain bridges was given high priority not to impede vehicular movement, but to sever the communications cables running under the bridges; our planners knew which cables important to Iraqi Command and Control were buried too deeply to destroy easily except where they were routed under bridges, and therefore which bridges to take out to disrupt Iraqi military communications. Second, the swing by US, British and French forces far to the West, the \\"Hail Mary\\" gambit, would not have been possible in that harsh terrain unless viable routes for armor and supply vehicles were known, and the Iraqi Army either didn't know of such routes or didn't believe we could know of them. There are exactly two feasible routes, and both were used; they can both be determined in complete detail from careful study of the British Ordnance maps prepared in the 1930s, and (although I wasn't involved in the campaign planning) I had no difficulty in finding and plotting the only two feasible routes before the ground campaign began, from the good maps in my possession. I also understand why it was necessary to bring the two prototype JSTARS systems to the theatre, to detect and allow blocking of any Iraqi strike intended to sever the Tapline Road; this was also evident from the maps. <br /> <br />By contrast, we had no success at all in locating and destroying mobile Scud missile launchers, because they moved around with great frequency. If you don't know where something is, no precision of your weaponry, and no amount of technical sophistication or military skill, will allow you to destroy it. <br /> <br />Past example #2: The SAFEGUARD BMD system. The Friedmans say, on the basis of assertions by people who may or may not be experts, that SAFEGUARD was deactivated because it wouldn't work. In fact the situation was exactly the reverse, but one must know the purpose of SAFEGUARD and its mode of operation to understand what actually happened. The mission of SAFEGUARD was to prevent complete success of a Soviet counterforce first strike against our Minuteman ICBM fields, by opening a \\"launch window\\" for a retaliatory strike by the Minuteman missiles in the face of a full-scale Soviet strike. I helped to plan and design that system, and it would have done what it was intended to, although at a horrible increased toll of death and destruction, which I dreaded, but could see no alternative to in the face of rapidly increasing Soviet capability. Far more important than the fact that we knew SAFEGUARD would work was the fact that the Soviets concluded it would work; that realization brought them back to the bargainng table at the Helsinki talks, and led to the SALT I treaty, which I rejoiced about. Provisions of that treaty made SAFEGUARD unnecessary, and that's why the one completed SAFEGUARD site was deactivated and construction on the other sites was stopped. <br /> <br />Also on the subject of balistic missile defense, the Friedmans assert that midcourse discrimination and destruction of incoming warheads is infeasible. This is simply not true, although there is an exceedingly serious problem associated with doing it. I know three quite different ways of doing midcourse discrimintion and destruction of enemy incoming warheads, and, given that I've been out of that business for more than 10 years, I expect that other ways are known by now. The problem is that, at least for the three ways I know, one is politically unacceptable to the US Congress and the US public, one is so expensive that it's unlikely Congress would ever fund it, and the third, if fully developed, would be usable for certain other military purposes that would probably lead to a renewed arms race as our potential major opponents sought to counter it. (I was one of a small group of scientists who successfully recommended to Congress that development of that third approach be stopped, to avoid the resulting foreseeable escalation; scientists and military professionals, despite various comments in the Friedmans' book, work closely together over years and decades, and come to have considerable knowledge of each other's fields.) Whether at some future time it may become desirable to develop and deploy a BMD system that does midcourse discrimination and destruction of warheads is a political and diplomatic question to be decided by the public and its elected leaders, on which I have no insight, but it is technically feasible. <br /> <br />Now, turning to the future, what the Friedmans fail to understand in their glowing vision of US technology dominating future warfare, is that for every technical advance, opponents can devise at least partial countermeasures, and that therefore no amount of technology as such can determine the outcome of a campaign. The Coalition conquest of Iraq in 2003 provides an excellent example. Although large parts of the Iraqi army, and all of its top leadership, was utterly incompetent, other large parts of the Iraqi army were composed ofthoroughly trained officers and enlisted men, who fully understood that if they confronted US forces nose to nose, they would be destroyed. Understanding this, very many of the best Iraqi units simply demobilized themsleves and disappeared into the civilian population as Coalition forces approached, in many cases taking their weaponry with them. One entire Iraqi division near the border with Iran totally vanished before we got to its bases; everyone from the division commander to the most junior private. Professional soldiers, even if motivated to fight, have no more desire than anyone else to be killed pointlessly in a situation where they are unable to resist effectively. <br /> <br />A substantial fraction of these well-trained, motivated Iraqi forces subsequently emerged as part of the resistance movement that continues in Iraq. How many of the resistance fighters come from that crowd is obviously impossible to know for sure, but my personal estimate is that about 30,000 of Saddam Hussein's best and most loyal troops and officers became part of the resistance movement. And our overwhelming superiority in all aspects of conventional warfare have been far less effective against current Iraqi resistance methods; the resistance movement seems to be gradually weakening and fragmenting, but it's a long slow process, in which our precision weapons and our advanced communications and intelligence give us far less of an advantage than they do in conventional warfare. <br /> <br />There are various other gaps in the Friedmans' assessment of the future. I'll mention only two of many. First, vircators, often touted as the most effective weapon of the 21st Century, have had only relatively diappointing results so far. Why? Partly because technical improvements to vircators are needed; those will surely come along in due course. Much more serious is the fact that battle damage asssessment after a vircator strike is at present almost impossible to do with any degree of accuracy, so after a target has been attacked with one or more vircators, there is no practical way to know whether the strike was successful or not. <br />Presumably some day we will overcome this particular problem, but it illustrates that new and potentially formidable technology may find relatively little application because of purely tactical and operational problems that arise in using it. <br /> <br />As my second example, I'll remark on the Friedmans' vision of US infantrymen as being in effect \\"cocooned\\" in future to protect them from the enemy's weapons. This vision ignores two serious problems. First, no \\"cocoon\\" imaginable can protect an infantryman against certain weapons such as a fuel-air bomb if the enemy knows approximately where the infantryman is. Second, and closely related, anyone with substantial experience in concealing himself in a hostile environment, including me, knows all too well that the more accoutrements one has, the harder it is to hide and not be observed. In light clothing and carrying only light personal weapons, I can disappear into the landscape almost anywhere, and move around unnoticed; burdened with excess equipment and elaborate protective clothing, only certain carefully selected spots can offer concealment. Everyone with experience in this matter knows as much as I do on this subject, so infantrymen whose lives depend on not being observed will move far more cautiously when heavily burdened than when lightly armed and lightly protected. That doesn't mean infantry should be sent into combat inadequately equipped, but it does mean that the increased effectiveness of some given number of trained infantry when provided with extra combat capability and protective equipment is far less than one might otherwise suppose. <br /> <br />I could cite dozens of other matters, past and projected, which the Friedmans book misunderstands or overlook, but this is enough. I'll just say that the book is an excellent source of ideas, but should be viewed with practiced skepticism.	2005-07-21
US	50626947	R38PJPC82MG2E7	014303538X	444014990	The Reformation: A History	Books	5	10	17	N	N	Relevant to current events in Islam	I agree with other reviewers' comments on the thorough coverage of the Reformation, the Counterreformation, and the various splinter movements, plus the effects of all those. <br /> <br />It's worth pointing out in addition that a close reading of this book gives insight into the accelerting trends in Islam over the past 50 years, including the advent of terrorist attacks. An underlying recurrent theme of this book is that throughout the period in Western Christendom that started with the Lollards and culminated in the Reformation, the counterreformation and, later, the \\"Enlightenment\\", there was an increasing trend both among clergy and laity to think about and question traditional doctrines and structures, to envision the possibility of individual and group decisions contrary to the historically rigid framework of doctrine promulgated by authority. This manifested itself not only in the changes and conflicts within Western Christendom, but also in the huge expansion of both religious and secular efforts to affect the world outside of Western Christendom, by conquest, by trade, by proselytizing, by emigration, and by terror. These collateral effects included innumerable deplorable, often \\"terrorist\\", events produced by adventurers and outright kooks of every variety. <br /> <br />I see exactly the same shift occuring in Islam. The bulk of Islamic unrest is between and among the adherents of Islam itself, and the impact of this is far greater than the impact on the rest of the world has been so far. However, such phenomena as terrorism against America, Europe, Russia, Australia, etc., and the increasing efforts at proselytizing in non-Islamic countries, are a byproduct of the stresses within Islam, and closely mirror the corresponding events covered in this book. Thus, what we in the Western world are seeing is not a phenomenon of Islamic hostility overall; as has been observed many times, Islam historically has been more tolerant and less violent than was Christianity during most of Christianity's history. Rather, we are assaulted by fringe groups that reject the views of all the mainstream Islamic doctrines. This being so, it is unlikely that we can hope for more conventional Islamic beliefs to suppress these splinter groups of \\"kooks\\", and unlikely that they will dwindle on their own any time in the next 50 years or so. Nor can pressure from the West hope to eliminate them, any more than other cultures were able (except for Japan and Russia) to drastically reduce the \\"terrorism\\" inflicted by Western Europeans on other cultures and nations in the period 1500 to 1850. <br /> <br />Viewed thus, we are facing an evolution of Islam that overall may well lead in the long term to a burst of creative vitality in the Islamic world such as Islam has not seen in the last 600 years or so, but that in the shorter term of 50 to 100 years may cause enormous disruption in the rest of the world. Assuming this is the case, it will take great wisdom for non-Islamic leaders to adopt from evolving Islam those changes that are beneficial while simultaneously holding down to a tolerable level the damage done by irrational Islamic splinter groups. <br /> <br />A great deal can be learned from this book about the challenge the rest of the world today faces from changes in Islam, and about how it can be constructively responded to (as Russia did between 1550 and 1800 in coping with changes in Western Christendom that impacted on Russia.) So I recommend the book not only as a historical study, but as one that illuminates today's challenges.	2005-07-20
US	50626947	R2QB5K58JL08H5	0375414339	490892129	Armageddon: The Battle for Germany, 1944-1945	Books	5	11	12	N	N	New insight on well-known events	The events of the 1944-1945 campaigns against Germany have been studied and recorded so thoroughly ever since that it's surprising that anything new and significant can be said, but Hastings does exactly that. I believe this book will supplant all previous general studies of those campaigns and the reasons for their successes and failures. It belongs on the bookshelf of anyone interested in the history of warfare. <br /> <br />I have one minor difference of views with Hastings' interpretations. He shares the widely held view that Eisenhower was tactically and strategically overcautious in his insistence on a slow, careful, broad advance after September, 1944. This view is so common that it may seem rash to dispute it, but I shall. To do so, I must refer to the Allies' experience in Tunisia and Eastern Algeria during the winter of 1942-1943, also under Eisenhower's command. That winter taught the Allies' commanders a hard lesson, which some, like Eisenhower, understood, while others, such as Montgomery and Patton, failed to understand. After a rapid and successful advance over very long distances, the advancing force is extremely vulnerable to devastating local counterattacks by the opponent. The successful advance, by its nature, has left behind it a trail of confusion, destruction, and inadequate or disrupted supply lines, together with a civilian population that inadvertently or in desperation interferes with logistics by clogging transportation routes, stealing supplies, and requiring diversion of military effort to maintenance of order and sustenance of the civilians. This problem cost the Allies dearly in North Africa from November of '42 through March of '43. Meanwhile, the defenders who were pushed back have positioned themselves in relatively undisturbed areas, close to whatever of their supplies they have left, and are well positioned to launch counterattacks; if they are determined, as the Wehrmacht always was, they will do just that, as they did in Tunisia. <br /> <br />Eisenhower knew that all too well from bitter experience. In September of '44, and until March of '45, his forces were operating at the end of very long and inadequately reorganized supply lines, with a large displaced, unsettled, recently liberated civilian population behind them, and this situation recurred in April of '45. Meanwhile, the Wehrmacht had retired onto its home ground, and despite its weakness, could avail itself easily of whatever resources it had left, as indeed it did at the Battle of the Bulge. <br /> <br />Both Montgomery and Patton in September of '44 were eager to push ahead, arguing that an immediate, focused drive could break German resistance and end the war. This seems to me very doubtful. Even Zhukov's huge offensive in the Spring found it very rough going, largely because of the disruption behind it that made it impossible even to provide needed clothes and boots for his fresh replacements. I do not believe that even the determination of Montgomery or the tactical brilliance of Patton could have achieved a breakthrough between September '44 and March '45, because their superiority was nullified by the chaos behind them and the relatively greater ease with which the Wehrmacht to their front could shift forces and resupply them. Eisenhower and Bradley certainly felt that way, and I personally feel that Eisenhower and Bradley were correct. By pausing and proceeding slowly and methodically, Eisenhower's forces were able, when they did again seek a breakthrough, to sustain the momentum that they would probably have lost if they had tried it earlier. <br /> <br />But this is only a very minor criticism of a wonderful book that everyone interested in the history of those campaigns should study carefully.	2005-06-05
US	50626947	R139W1LUPEVD2Y	0387940944	22391799	The Joy of Sets: Fundamentals of Contemporary Set Theory (Undergraduate Texts in Mathematics)	Books	5	33	33	N	N	Superb!	Keith Devlin is one of those rare research mathematicians who is able to make recent advances in mathematics understandable and interesting to those whose mathematical education is obsolete or incomplete. I'm in the former category, having done my graduate work in pure math 50 years ago; although I've tried to keep up, constraints of time and other obligations have made it difficult. <br /> <br />Most modern texts on set theory put the reader to sleep, either because they avoid the important parts (\\"Set Theory for Those who Don't Want to Know It\\") or because they employ a degree of formalism that is quite difficult to grasp (\\"Set Theory Derived by Pure Propositional Logic, Step by Step\\"). Devlin's book avoids both traps. He presents modern advanced material that illuminates the subject admirably, but is careful not to submerge the reader in overwhelming finicky details. His discussions of constructive set theory, of independence proofs in set theory, and of non-well-founded set theory, are the first ones I've seen that get me excited enough to put the book aside and start exploring some of the implications on my own. <br /> <br />If I search for anything about the book to criticize, I find only one very minor thing. The sequence of proofs that show \\"Zorn's Lemma\\", the Axiom of Choice, the well-ordering principle, \\"Tukey's Lemma\\", etc to be equivalent to one another as an addition to the traditional Zermolo-Frankel axioms would be clearer if prefaced by an intuitive discssion of why the various steps in the chain of reasoning \\"ought\\" to work as they do; such a discussion helped me a lot many years ago to internalize what's going on. But that comment is just a nit. <br /> <br />On the other extreme, having once, 30+ years ago, being forced by the exigencies of a real-world problem to blunder through the creation of my own version of fragments of non-well-founded set theory, it gives me much joy to see it exounded as a coherent mthematical topic. <br /> <br />I read and reread this book, and drag it off the shelf when it occurs to me to ponder on some aspect that I don't fully recall. There are a number of other books on topics in pure mathematics about which I feel the same way, but they are a tiny minority among the deluge of texts that will never be read by anyone who doesn't have to. It's obviously an excellent text for advanced undergraduates and beginning graduate students, but beyond that, I recommend it to anyone with a working knowledge of pure math whose knowledge of set theory is somewhat behind current knowledge. <br /> <br />In short, buy a copy!	2005-06-04
US	50626947	R1NTPQZLVGCGCB	0375400532	116719555	Intelligence in War: Knowledge of the Enemy from Napoleon to Al-Qaeda	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Insightful, worth reading, but uneven and flawed	Like all John Keegan's books, this one is insightful, thought provoking, well worth reading. But it is quite uneven, because Keegn here deals with a subject and with some examples for his analysis with which he hasn't enough personal knowledge to treat them as well as they deserve. I could cite several, but I will only mention two. <br /> <br />First, very briefly, in the initial part of his discussion of the battle of Crete Keegan attempts an elementary explanation of codes and ciphers, of cryptology and cryptanalysis. In this passage he makes mistakes of terminology and fact so elementary that it's apparent he has less knowledge of crypto than he could have gained just by careful reading, for example, of F. L. Bauer's simple, clear elementary text \\"Decrypted Secrets: Methods and Maxims of Cryptology\\". This gap in Keegan's knowledge does not eliminate the insight he displays in discussing the battles of Crete and Midway, but it does warp some of his assertions. <br /> <br />Second, and at a bit more length, his chapter on Jackson's \\"Valley Campaign\\" of 1862 calls it \\"the most brilliant exercise in maneuver warfare, depending wholly on superior use of intelligence, in the broadest sense, perhaps ever achieved.\\" Well, there is no doubt that Jackson's Valley Campaign was brilliant, and various knowledgeable people over the years have felt that it was the most brilliant exercise in maneuver warfare ever achieved. For a hundred years, aspiring officers from major military powers came to walk the areas of the Valley Campaign to get a good sense of it. I, too, have detailed familiarity with the area, and a considerable knowledge of the Valley Campaign (for other reasons), but I find it almost unrecognizable in Keegan's description and analysis. Perhaps he never spent time in the area, or perhaps he had preconceptions that limited his understanding, but I believe it would be nearly impossible for anyone to learn from this chapter what Jackson did, or how, or why. I will offer one instance of this, Jackson's operations from May 6 to May 10 of 1862. <br /> <br />Jackson decided to move West and attack Milroy's Union force at McDowell, because that force threatened Staunton. Keegan gets that correct. But why? Keegan mentions Staunton's importance as a supply base for Jackson, and that was important, but there was a more important reason. Jackson intended to move North, and he could not afford to have any big part of Fremont's force, not even \\"Milroy's weary boys\\", behind him when he did, blocking his line of return. Between Fremont's troops and the Valley are mountain ridges that form some of the most difficult terrain in the Eastern US, in most places absolutely impossible for an army to traverse in any reasonable time, as Fremont was to dicover the hard way a couple of weeks later. However, a good highway, then called the Petersburg Pike, now part of US Highway 250, laid out some years previously by a French military engineer named Crozet, ran directly between McDowell and Staunton, and it was eminently suited to the movement of an army, so before Jackson moved North it was essential for him to chase Milroy away from McDowell; that fact was a no-brainer. Jackson chose to first move East through Brown's Gap in the Blue Ridge and then come back through Rockfish Gap, a move that has puzzled various historians who have attributed it to deception or to the bad condition of the roads in the Valley, the latter being Keegan's explanation. But there was a much simpler reason for that roundabout move. If you walk the old Brown's Gap road (now impassible to vehicles) and the old road through Rockfish Gap, the latter of which was part of the Pike, you find that those two roads, which join just East of the Blue Ridge, were the only roads then existing with grades gentle enough and with minor enough stream crossings to make them easy for movement of artillery and wagons. So by taking that route, Jackson could not only place himself on the VirginiaCentral Railroad, but could get onto the road he needed to be on with a minimum of effort and a maximum of speed. <br /> <br />Having moved from there to McDowell, he fought Milroy and drove Milroy North, but at great cost, and, as Keegan reports \\"reproached himself for bad management of the battle.\\" In what way did Jackson manage the battle badly? Keegan seems to think it was in failing to take Milroy by surprise, but in fact there was no hope of doing that, and Jackson knew it. Jackson did, however, make a serious error, and it was a failure of reconnaisance that Keegan doesn't grasp. Coming down Bullpasture Mountain to McDowell, Crozet's road goes through a narrow defile just short of McDowell, and Jackson wished to clear Milroy's troops from that by artillery fire from two overlooking spurs of Bullpasture Mountain. But because of inadequate reconnoiter, he didn't know how rugged those spurs were, so his artillery was late geting onto them, and Jackson's force took unnecessary casualties as a result. You have to stand at that point to understand the error, and I'd guess that Keegan has never stood there. <br /> <br />Finally, why did Jackson follow Milroy North to Franklin, then turn around and go back without further action? Keegan doesn't see the reason, which was extremely simple. Jackson didn't need to destroy or scatter Milroy's force; he just needed to get it far enough North of the East-West highway so that Milroy would be unable to cross the horrendous terrain into the Valley, and forcing Milroy to Franklin did that very nicely. <br /> <br />What do I infer from this recital of four days of the campaign? Not that Jackson gained much from intelligence during May 6 to May 10; indeed, at one point he blundered by not getting intelligence. Rather, his logical and well-trained mind saw what needed to be done before he could move North, and once his brilliance gave him a clear grasp of the task, he knew (as anyone else raised locally, including me, would have known) the only routes along which he could maneuver to accomplish his intentions. <br /> <br />Keegan could have grasped all this by some reading and a few days of walking, but he doesn't grasp it. Which is typical of the flaws in what is none the less quite a good book.	2005-06-04
US	50626947	R1YCDNPJ1PR3X2	0385510438	817294609	The Last Juror (Grisham, John)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Astonishingly perceptive	Although I've spent most of my adult life in the North (and in foreign countries) I was raised in the rural South many years ago, and can still blend in, all these years later, because I know the customs and manners, the friendliness and suspicions, the respect and tensions and admiration and hatreds and loyalties and betrayals, and the proper way to introduce oneself to a small Southern town where one isn't known, in order to gain prompt acceptance as one of \\"us\\" rather than one of \\"them\\". I have also served on juries, and know by personal experience the wrenching debates in a jury room when the judge's instructions on the law conflict with the good sense of ordinary people about what verdict is appropriate, given the special circumstances of the case. <br /> <br />Grisham's books sell because they're well written, gripping and entertaining. But I wish to commend two in particular because they portray far better than most novels do the way in which Southern customs work well and the ways they work badly, and because his accounts of grand jury and trial jury deliberations match what I've been involved in. <br /> <br />If you wish to understand the complexities of Southern culture, both good and evil, read \\"A Time to Kill\\" and \\"The Last Juror\\". How Grisham knows as much as he does, I have no idea, but he portrays details that I know from personal experience, that I have found no other author describing as well.	2005-02-26
US	50626947	R2XZADCMA4PTI7	0440211727	883917886	A Time to Kill	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Extraordinarily perceptive	Although I've spent most of my adult life in the North (and in foreign countries) I was raised in the rural South many years ago, and can still blend in, all these years later, because I know the customs and manners, the friendliness and suspicions, the respect and tensions and admiration and hatreds and loyalties and betrayals, and the proper way to introduce oneself to a small Southern town where one isn't known, in order to gain prompt acceptance as one of \\"us\\" rather than one of \\"them\\". I have also served on juries, and know by personal experience the wrenching debates in a jury room when the judge's instructions on the law conflict with the good sense of ordinary people about what verdict is appropriate, given the special circumstances of the case. <br /> <br />Grisham's books sell because they're well written, gripping and entertaining. But I wish to commend two in particular because they portray far better than most novels do the way in which Southern customs work well and the ways they work badly, and because his accounts of grand jury and trial jury deliberations match what I've been involved in. <br /> <br />If you wish to understand the complexities of Southern culture, both good and evil, read \\"A Time to Kill\\" and \\"The Last Juror\\". How Grisham knows as much as he does, I have no idea, but he portrays details that I know from personal experience, that I have found no other author describing as well.	2005-02-26
US	50626947	R3255N6NVWAC7E	0844408549	933493898	Brazil: A Country Study (Area Handbook Series)	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Essential for those interested in Brazil	This 5th Edition is greatly updated since the 4th Edition, and should be used in place of earlier editions. It is an admirable source of information on Brazil's history, social structure and institutions, the economy, the government, the military, and on Brazil's efforts in science and technology. It cannot substitute for more specialized works, but I use it as my first stop when looking for information on anything about Brazil that I have no personal knowledge of and no detailed reference works on. It should be the first book on Brazil acquired by anyone with any serious interest in any topic concerning Brazil. <br /> <br />This being said, I do have some criticisms; the book is not perfect. Most important, although some sections have been completely rewritten since the 4th Edition, others have not, and there is no indication of which ones have and which ones haven't. This can seriously mislead a reader who assumes that a specific item of information is accurate as of the 5th Edition publication date of 1998,if it happens to be an obsolete item from ten or fifteen years earlier. As an example, in the discussion of Brazil's exports, there isn't a hint that by the time of publication of the 5th Edition, the largest single export of Brazil was commercial passenger airliners produced by EMBRAER, which has become one of the world's four largest manufacturers of passenger airliners, below Airbus and Boeing, but competing nose-to-nose with Bombardier, and encroaching on the low end of Boeing's market so severely that Boeing recently discontinued the 717 because it can't compete effectively against the EMB-170 and EMB-190 of EMBRAER. This striking omission is due entirely to the fact that the section on exports was not updated for the 5th Edition. I could cite various other such examples, but this one will suffice to indicate the way in which a reader might be misled. <br /> <br />A less serious but still significant problem is that the bibliographies at the end of each chapter refer almost exclusively to works in English. To be sure, most casual readers about Brazil will not know enough Portuguese to tackle serious publications in Portuguese, but many serious readers will be comfortable reading Portuguese, and most of the most important source works were written in Portuguese by Brazilians and have not yet been translated into English (although some have). The chapter authors themselves have clearly drawn heavily on documents in Portuguese, and the editors should have done readers the courtesy to cite in the bibliographies the most important of these. <br /> <br />Finally, to my great surprise, the book does not seem to have been reviewed by knowledgeable reviewers, although it did get editorial review. This omission is undoubtedly responsible for many of the minor errors and omissions that mar the work; I recommend that a reader who needs to depend on any specific statement of fact in this book check it agains other sources. Some of the errors are just hilarious; for example, on page 94 I find the assertion that the Ucayali river, a Peruvian tributary of the Amazon, is 6,762 kilometers long. A moment's thought reveals the implausibility of Peru, whose longest dimension is just over 2000 kilometers, containg a river 6,762 kilometers long. The Ucayali is indeed a large and important river, but its actual length is slightly less than 1500 kilometers. Unfortunately, many of the other minor errors are less obvious, unless one has lived in Brazil, has friends there, and keeps up with events and changes in the country. <br /> <br />Despite these caveats, though, the book is first rate overall, and an excellent starting point for learning.	2005-02-08
US	50626947	R1QHJAMXR88HF2	0684824299	318460719	Bell Curve: Intelligence and Class Structure in American Life (A Free Press Paperbacks Book)	Books	3	19	35	N	N	Worthwhile, but incomplete	Ten years after publication, this book is evidently as controversial as when published. Much of the controversy is about the validity of the book's assertions, but much of it is about topics related to the book's content, but not directly addressed by the book, and not intended by the book's authors to be inferred from what they wrote. For 29 years before this book was published I made a living directing scientific and technical research and development, in which one of the most important aspects of my success or failure was my ability (or lack of ability) in deciding whom to hire and whom to retain. So this book might offer information relevant to my decision processes. It does provide intersting background; despite some incautious or erroneous conclusions, its general theme is well worth considering. However, its practical value for people making decisions such as those I had to make is not great. <br /> <br />In hiring or retaining scientific and technical researchers or developers, a great deal of information is available to the decisionmaker: schools attended, educational transcripts, degrees or diplomas attained, test scores alleged to be directly related to the job to be performed, faculty recommendations, pre-hiring interviews, and (in the case of retention decisions) measures and evaluations of performance; IQ scores, of course, are not available (and in my personal opinion would not add to the information that is available, because some of the available data indirectly depends on IQ). All this available data is routinely used, and it screens out people who manifestly cannot do the job. As a result, the decisionmaker is choosing among members of a population already severely restricted by selection (like the NFL football players used as an example in the book). But there is extreme variablility in performance among members of this restricted population, despite the screening, and an R&D manager is of course vitally interested in the sources from which thisvariation springs. <br /> <br />In examining this repeatedly over many years, I concluded that demonstrated \\"smarts\\" per se, or education per se, or any of the other available measures (even including experience), has little or no predictive ability for estimating how well an individual will perform. This should not be surprising, because all of that data has already been used in the selection process that determines whether individuals will even be considered for specific jobs or particular assignments. I was able to discern only two factors that distinguished the best performers from the least performers, among those who met the threshold criteria. One of these two is motivation; the more motivated the individual to achieve well on the job, the better the performance. This obviously has little to do with IQ, and is only weakly correlated with such things as educational attainment. The other important factor, which I couldn't measure quantitatively but found it easy to discern qualitatively, was the individual's ability to discern which tasks among many the individual should most usefully focus on. The best performers display an uncanny knack for deciding whether a problem is at the right level of importance, the right level of difficulty, and the right match to the individual's personal talents and skills, to be worth a major investment of the individual's time and energy. Perhaps this has something to do with the idividual's IQ score or \\"g\\", perhaps not; I did not find it useful to speculate about that. But, unmistakeably, individuals who unerringly refused tasks they were not well suited for and accepted tasks for which they were exceptionally suited, were amomg the best performers, and those whose judgment in this respect was poor were among the least performers. <br /> <br />What does this say about the book? To me, it says that although much of what's in the book is presumably true, and much else is subject to dispute, it has little useful bearing on selection or retention for excellence in predicted performance on specific jobs. Whether the book's assertions are important in broader issues of social policy and social welfare I'm not competent to opine about. <br /> <br />More specifically, I found among the candidates I interviewed and the employees I observed, no correlation between performance on the one hand and race, sex, \\"credentials\\", economic or family background, test scores, faculty recommendations, or any other crisply definable characteristic. What does this say to me? it says that after the obvious screening to eliminate people manifestly unable to do the job, there is no discernable difference of performance between men and women, blacks and whites, people from advantaged or disadvantaged backgrounds, Asian-Americans and people of European ancestry, Jews and Episcopalians, native-born Americans and immigrants, or other such categories. Individuals must be evaluated one by one as individuals, without reference to categories. <br /> <br />The book is only relevant, in my opinion, in two respects. First, cultural asumptions among certain groups make members of those groups more or less likely to seek certain professions, so, for example, there is a shortage of black and Hispanic applicants for technical jobs in engineering and physical science. This is deplorable; it may perhaps be due to a correct perception in those groups that they will be discriminated against, or it may not; that I don't know. Second, because many employers rely far to much on easily available but untrustworthy data, such as \\"credentials\\", it is possible for a careful employer to find, hire, and retain outstanding performers who have been overlooked by less careful decision-makers. <br /> <br />In short, I find this book well worth reading and rereading, but only in the same sense that the Hollywood \\"Oscar\\" ceremony is worth watching. It provides little information useful either to individuals or to those who select individuals for specific jobs or assignments, just as, to a casting director, the question of whether someone has or has not received an \\"Oscar\\" has little bearing on whether that person is the best choice for a specific role in a particular movie. Properly viewed, the individual's match to the need is everything; the individual's background, ethnicity, and so on are irrelevant. Therefore, I consider the decade-long controversy about this book to be uninteresting and irrelevant.	2005-02-06
US	50626947	R24XC349UL8NAI	0142004375	108824701	The Peloponnesian War	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Excellent, but with flaws	Kagan has written a four-volume work on this subject for professional historians; this volume is written for the general reader. I'm delighted to have it and read it, because he sheds light on many aspects of this important war that had puzzled me. But I also have two criticisms. <br /> <br />First, Kagan places more reliance on the \\"objectivity and accuracy\\" of Thucydides than I think wise. Thucydides certainly tried to be objective and accurate, but he was writing not only to record events but to try to provide a comprehensible explanation, and the format he chose is that of Greek tragic drama. This naturally led Thucydides to focus on some events while barely mentioning others equally important. More significantly, he felt it imperative, given his choice of format, to include long speeches and descriptions that he could not have known in detail and must have recreated almost from whole cloth. I could cite many examples of this, but one will suffice: the debate between Nicias and Alcibiades about the second expedition to Syracuse in the 17th year of the war, which Thucidides reports \\"verbatim\\", occupying about eight pages of fine print in translation. Thucydides had been banished from Athens for almost ten years at that time, and was not allowed to return for about another ten. In the nature of Athenian assembly debates, the exchange between Niciasand Alcibiades would not have been transcribed, so Thucidides' seemingly verbatim account must have been created from extremely sketchy accounts by those who were there. Kagan doesn't seem to recognize how much of Thucidides' text has this degree of invention. <br /> <br />My other criticism is that although Kagan's theme is largely the distortion of human actions and motives that occurs in war, he fails to convey a vivid sense of that to the reader who has not experienced it. That task is extremely difficult but not impossible; John Keegan in \\"The Face of Battle\\" did a marvelous job of it. Kagan comes across as dry, notpassionate, but war is always an affair of extreme passion. His style is appropriate when writing for other military historians, who know all about the quasi-insanity that overtakes everyone faced with the possibility of being killed by the enemy, but Kagan's style is not compelling to those general readers who have never experienced that terror, recklessness, exaltation and almost inexplicable cruelty and ferocity, the dehumanization of attitudes and actions in wartime. It is necessary to have a feel for this to understand, for example, why during a Civil War battle Stonewall Jackson, when one of his aides remarked on the bravery of an attacking Union force, replied: \\"I don't want them brave; I want them dead.\\" Kagan's book does not convey that feel. <br /> <br />Despite these criticisms, Kagan's book is a \\"must\\" for anyone concerned about the conflicts and possible conflicts of the 21st Century. I recommend it.	2004-10-28
US	50626947	R1J8F0DHH2S4OL	0520042727	662656122	Alexander the Great and the Logistics of the Macedonian Army	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Still relevant!	In addition to the historical importance of this book, well noted by other reviewers, it is useful to military planners even today, and is already in the personal libraries of some; it should be more widely read. Logistics problems today, of course, are very different from those of Alexander's time, but some constant factors remain. Throughout the areas conquered by Alexander (and some from which he turned back), difficult terrain, predictable drought, severe winter weather, timing of annual floods, blocking of routes by ice and snow, fertile and infertile areas, and other such, have changed somewhat, but not all that much, since the time of Alexander. Alexander solved these problems quite differently from the way a modern army solves them, but solved they must be by any army campaigning anywhere in this whole vast area, and many of Alexander's solutions offer clues to what will be feasible or infeasible solutions today. So this book is as useful to a modern military planner as to a historian.	2004-07-14
US	50626947	R3HTKEH8UZY0Z3	0142002623	689113993	The Company: A Novel of the CIA	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Comments on book's portrayal of real people	This is a wonderful novel; of course it is fiction, but it portrays many real people. I worked off and on from 1950 to the early '90s with defense and intel groups,and although my contact with CIA was limited, I have personal views about some of the real people, and here comment on how my views match (or don't) Littell's portrayal. First, though, I must observe that neither CIA nor KGB was consistently as clever as the book portrays; like any large organization, CIA and KGB had very many people who were barely competent, if that, along with some who were superb, so the effectiveness of neither CIA nor KGB was as great as that of some less well-known intel groups in both countries that chose and trained fewer people and did it better. That's not a criticism, just an observation about big organizations. In particular, both CIA and KGB suffered greatly from their habit of posting people to assignments where they couldn't speak or understand the local languages and didn't know local customs and courtesies; I met a few of those in surprising places, and wondered what on earth their bosses thought they could achieve. OK, on to real people.<br />The portrayal of Bissell is perfect: a brilliant, hard-driving, opinionated risk-taker who didn't listen well to the views of others. (By the way, Bissell didn't fall on his sword after Bay of Pigs; he wound up with a responsible job that used his talent where he wouldn't do damage.) Richard Helms was much better than Littell's brief description would imply; Helms was indeed usually cautious, and could be bureaucratic, but he fought fiercely to make his considered judgment heard, and was perhaps the most effective person in CIA for many years. It's unfortunate that Kennedy didn't get Helms' carefully reasoned explanation of why Bay of Pigs wouldn't work; that was pigeonholed before it could get to Kennedy, and Kennedy had not yet learned to ask the questions that would have brought Helms' story to his attention.<br />Casey is wellportrayed: a fervent patriot with lousy judgment. It's little known that Adm. Bobby Inman, Casey's deputy between Inman's time as NSA Director and Inman's subsequent career, resigned because some of Casey's operations were unacceptable to Inman. (I know this both from Inman and from others.) Angleton deserves better than the portrayal in this book; he was abrasive, eccentric and paranoid, hated by many CIA people, but he did many good things for CIA besides a few bad things. Angleton did not destroy the capability of CIA's Ops Directorate, although he did do a bit of damage to it. The more serious damage, however, was inflicted later by James Woolsey's well-intentioned but ill-advised starvation of humint to emphasize technical means. Tenet tried to repair this, and humint is getting better again now, but that takes time, and unfortunately wasn't far enough along for the Iraq conflict, so Tenet had to take the fall.<br />Littell portrays the KGB's inability to get the Politburo to recognize the facts of life about Afghanistan; I don't know whether Littell means to imply the CIA had the same problem about Viet Nam, but it did. In the late '60s I asked a senior US intel guy why US intel hadn't laid out for President Johnson the true state of affairs in Viet Nam, and he said, &quot;We did, repeatedly, but he wouldn't listen; he didn't want to hear it.&quot; A perennial problem for intel shops is that national leaders (and top military people) often don't want to hear what the intel people have to say, for reasons having to do with problems of policy and of leadership; in the US, CIA and other intel shops often get badmouthed for not providing good analyses when in fact they did, but were ignored. I can think of only two post-WW-II Presidents who listened carefully to intel assessments that cast doubts on the President's policy of the time.<br />I know little about Giancana, but I'm surprised if he was as foulmouthed and ignorant as Littell portrays; the few people I have known who were &quot;managers&quot; in organizations that systematically broke our criminal laws had to deal with the &quot;respectable&quot; world, and behaved in a way acceptable to those they dealt with; they left it to their goons to be grossly uncouth.<br />I noted a couple of very minor errors in Littell's description of routine CIA procedures at Langley, but nothing major. All told, he has achieved a remarkably good book; if my comments above seem to conflict with some of Littell's characterizations, keep in mind that there are many knowledgeable people who would agree with Littell and not with me, or who would disagree with both of us.	2004-07-10
US	50626947	RHKIXGYHCDT8O	0345353145	340762456	Sphere	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Entertaining, but an old plot idea	Michael Crichton's novels are always entertaining, and I enjoy reading them, including \\"Sphere\\". But I find it ironic that amazon.com's own review of \\"Sphere\\" compares Crichton to H. G. Wells as a writer of science fiction explaining scientific ideas clearly to the lay public. \\"Sphere\\" has a gussied-up version of the plot of the H. G. Wells short story \\"The Man Who Could Work Miracles\\", published roughly 100 years ago.  Even the final plot twist that evades a seemingly hopeless situation is the same. I don't believe for a moment that Crichton engaged in conscious plagiarism when writing \\"Sphere\\"; either the coincidence of plots is just that, or perhaps Critchton read the H. G. Wells short story as a kid (as I did), and the basic plot twist stuck somewhere back in his subconscious.  So, this is not a criticism of \\"Sphere\\"; just an amused comment.	2002-06-14
US	50626947	R23UAGRT4TOO3I	0940160536	444970505	Cape Cod and the Islands: The Geologic Story	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Best book on the topic; get 2001 revised edition	To begin with, although the Amazon.com screen shows the 1992 edition published by Parnassus Imprints, that edition is no longer available, and Parnassus Imprints no longer has anything to do with Oldale's book; it is now sold in a completely revised and greatly improved edition, published in 2001 by On Cape Publications. If you want this book, you want the new edition.<br />There are three easily available books aimed at the general reader (rather than professional geologists) on the geology of Cape Cod; two of the three, including this one, also discuss Martha's Vineyard and Nantucket. In my opinion, this one, by Robert N. Oldale, is by far the best of the three, although the other two are also worth reading by anyone seriously interested in the subject. Oldale has spent his long career with the US Geological Survey, and much of it has been devoted to research on the soils, geology, and geological history of Cape Cod and the Islands. As a result, he knows more about the subject than anyone else I know or know of. In this book he writes very clearly, for the general reader, and covers the subject thoroughly and with scrupulous accuracy. His discussion is clarified and improved by a large number of apt photographs, figures and sketch maps, most of which are new in this 2001 edition. I love this book.<br />The geology of Cape Cod is astonishingly complex for a spit of land that seems so simple. It would have been impossible for Oldale to describe all the details in a book of reasonable length. So for the seriously interested reader, the numerous references to other books, maps and monographs, in Appendices A, C, D and F are invaluable. Unfortunately, although most of the material referred to is easy to come by, some of it is not. In particular, the map which underlies Oldale's book (also largely prepared by Oldale) \\"Geologic Map of Cape Cod and the Islands, Massachusetts: U.S. Geological Survey Miscellaneous Investigations Series Map I-1763\\" can be hard to find. But it can be bought by mail at a very modest price from the Geology Department of the University of Massachusetts. I recommend that anyone who plans to read more than one book on the geology of Cape Cod, or who intends to re-read Oldale's book, get this map. It illustrates admirirably many of the points made by Oldale in the book, and in addition contains a wealth of detail that supplements the book (but which might be hard for a non-professional to comprehend before reading the book.) The book and the map together provide wonderful coverage of a fascinating subject.	2002-02-17
US	50626947	R1ZAW5Y0P8TKB7	0387578927	858138375	Electromagnetic Pulse Propagation In Causal Dielectrics	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Important; many more people should read it	The phenomena covered by this monograph have a long history, going back to 1914 papers by Sommerfeld and Brillouin, but the topic is still not completely understood; Sommerfeld's and Brillouin's work contained errors that have since been corrected, but the topic is quite difficult in terms of mathematics, physics, and experimental apparatus and instrumentation, so much progress remains to be made.<br />However, much progress has already been made, and much of it by the authors of this monograph. I was unaware of it until very recently, and I found it startling and important reading. It has significant practical implications for various fields, but I gather that many people besides me have been completely unaware of the progress made since 1970; I have recent papers on nuclear effects, radar, and high-powered microwave weapons sitting in my office whose authors were obviously unaware of how much progress Oughstun and others have made, and these papers would have been noticeably improved if they had included consideration of what is now known about pulse propagation in causal dielectrics.<br />So I urge engineers, physicists and others dealing with issues involving steep rise times of electromagnetic pulses to read this book, and consider how it may affect their work and their conclusions.<br />Prof. Oughstun has been continuing his research on this topic since his book was published in 1994; his more recent papers are listed in his CV on the Web. I hope he will soon issue a revised edition of this monograph, incorporating his more recent results and those of others; that would be a considerable service to the community. I also hope that Oughstun, or somebody, will produce an equally up-to-date monograph about what is now known on the question of how the pulse propagation phenomena described by Oughstun can alter the properties of the causal dielectrics through which the propagation occurs.<br />I will conclude by saying that because I have been involved off and on since the late 1960s in work that's affected by the material Oughstun covers in this book, I am both mildly surprised and somewhat embarrassed that I, and apparently many others, have been so unaware of it.<br />Read the book!	2001-11-11
US	50626947	R2GLQM6EZ4HT0L	0890065268	237076051	Electronic Warfare in the Information Age (Artech House Radar Library)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Excellent, but compressed	This book brings the reader up to date on almost every aspect of modern Electronic Warfare, and is well worth reading.<br />But I must add two caveats. First, Schleher covers so much ground in one volume that a great deal of background material is necessarily left out. The reader needs to be reasonably familiar with military electronics and the relevant aspects of physics to understand a lot of the material presented here. Indeed,in a few places, such as the discussion in Section 8.1.1 of high-power microwave weapons, so much has been left out that I doubt whether anybody who lacks specialized knowledge of that particular topic can infer the implications of what Schleher says.<br />My second caveat is that, perhaps because of space limitations, the book contains essentially no material relating the great mass of technical information it provides to operational doctrine and the tactical implications of operational doctrine. Given that it's impossible to put all of the very latest-and-greatest technical innovations into every weapon and every platform (because it would cost too much, add too much weight, take up too much space, and make maintenance inordinately difficult) the choice of what to use where has to be made on the basis of how the platform or weapon is to be used, and that can only be determined by considering operational doctrine. Many engineers, and even some military personnel, tend to overlook this, so in a book like Schleher's it would be invaluable to have this relationship discussed. But it isn't.<br />However, I found the book fascinating and informative.	2001-11-10
US	50626947	R3HSRYSGHBSAGS	0780353528	15992126	Contemporary Cryptology: The Science of Information Integrity	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Great for serious readers with a suitable background	Unlike most books on cryptology, this one tries to give a broad overview not only of conventional ciphers and cryptanalysis, but also of authentication, protocols, zero-knowledge proofs and other aspects of modern cryptology. It is slightly out of date, having been published in 1993, but not seriously so. The editor, Gus Simmons, is a heavyweight researcher who worked for many years at Sandia Labs on such topics as public key ciphers and their uses and weaknesses, and cryptologic methods for ensuring against cheating in certain types of treaties. He wrote the article on cryptology for the 16th edition of the Encyclopedia Britannica. All the contributors are also experts in their specialties. The resulting book requires considerable knowledge of math, computer science and cryptology to understand fully, but it is well worth reading for those who can wade through it. The 14 chapters will not all be equally interesting to all readers; to me, for example, Joan Feigenbaum's &quot;Overview of Interactive Proof Systems and Zero-Knowledge&quot;, the chapter on &quot;Cryptanalysis: A Survey of Recent Results&quot; by E. F. Brickell and Andrew Odlyzko, and &quot;Protocol Failures in Cryptosystems&quot; by J. H. Moore, are particularly interesting because they gave me a coherent picture of three topics in which I had encountered various results and had fragmentary knowledge. Other readers may have different favorites, but there's something here for almost anyone. My only criticism is that the chapter on &quot;The Data Encryption Standard: Past and Future&quot; by Miles Smid and Dennis Branstad, is disingenuous, and seems to me misleading in some respects. For example, it fails to mention several features of the DES standard itself, and it fails to point out the most serious vulnerability of software implementations of DES (which should be implemented in hardware to be secure, as the standard notes.) The chapter also fuzzes up the role of NSA in dealing with both IBM and NBS. In particular, it doesn't make clear that NSA found a weakness in IBM's original &quot;Lucifer&quot; cipher, and guided IBM in removing the weakness. Nor does it even hint that NBS, which was supposedly the chooser and promulgator of the DES standard, was in no position to exercise independent judgment on the matter; the chief technical consultant to NBS about DES was Arthur J. Levenson, who although nominally retired from NSA at the time, could still be most easily reached in his NSA office at Fort Meade, not at NBS, and not at IBM's Federal Systems Division, where he had nominally gone after &quot;retiring&quot; from NSA. This is not a criticism of DES, which is a remarkably good cipher; it is a grumble that almost 20 years after the events described in this chapter, the authors still felt it necessary to fuzz up the history of the topic, which at least Dennis Branstad was intimately familiar with. Except for this one complaint, I find the entire book admirable.	2001-08-25
US	50626947	R39IONEP5UP8GM	0933580134	51717309	Fundamentals of Philately	Books	5	34	34	N	Y	A necessity for serious stamp collectors	This book is not about stamp collecting as such, but it should be in the library of every serious collector, because without it few of us would be able to distinguish between the numerous varieties that occur both on common stamps and scarce stamps. The first edition was excellent; this second edition, on which L. N. Williams worked for eight years, is even better.<br />The book provides a thorough discussion of paper and of papermaking techniques; of design processes, die making, and the various methods of creating plates from dies; of printing methods and machinery; of separation methods and machinery, including the different kinds of perforating machines; of &quot;gum&quot; and its characteristics; of inks used for stamp production; and of the various ways in which errors, freaks and other unintended varieties can occur at various stages of the design and production process. It is superb and necessary background for deciding what one is looking at when that isn't immediately obvious, with very many high quality illustrations to help the reader understand the subtleties.<br />I couldn't do without it.	2001-08-12
US	50626947	R3CU5WDCLTP9ID	0486612724	795828421	Handbook of Mathematical Functions: with Formulas, Graphs, and Mathematical Tables (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	3	122	130	N	N	Excellent, but with limitations	This book, originally published in 1964 by the National Bureau of Standards, is the result of a project started in 1954. It provides information on most of the functions then widely used in numerical computation in engineering and the physical sciences, including many formulas, and numerical tables of values for most of the functions.<br />In 2001 it has two drawbacks. First, because algorithms for computing numerical values of mathematically functions have improved dramatically over the 37 years since this work was published, you will not find suitable algorithms for computing values of the various functions discussed. To write a program for a computer or programmable calculator to produce values of any of these functions, you should use algorithms obtained from more modern works.<br />Second, and for much the same reason, you should not assume that all the numerical values given in all the tables are completely accurate; in 1964 calculations of some of these values with then-known algorithms pushed the state of the art to the limit. For example, in Table 7.3, &quot;Complementary Error Function&quot;, two of the values attributed to a 1951 table by O. Emersleben are slightly incorrect in the last digit tabulated. This is not a criticism of this book, or of Emersleben; accurate calculation of values of the complementary error function for large arguments is tricky, and I have found similar errors in tables compiled more recently. However, good algorithms are now known, and should be used by anyone who desires reliable values.<br />These days I find this book still useful for refreshing my memory on various of the many formulas it contains, but for numerical values I prefer to rely on more recent sources, or on programs that derive values using the better algorithms known these days.	2001-08-04
US	50626947	R2WJ4WNVZ6G7CT	0387950028	17719347	Fermat's Last Theorem: A Genetic Introduction to Algebraic Number Theory (Graduate Texts in Mathematics)	Books	4	29	31	N	N	Read this if you're seriously interested in math.	There was a great burst of excitement, and several popular books, when Andrew Wiles proved &quot;Fermat's last theorem&quot;. The popular books are fine, but they don't address the deepest issue: among all the many long-standing unsolved problems in number theory that are easy to state but resistant to solution, why did &quot;Fermat's last theorem&quot; attract the efforts of so many top-flight mathematicians: Euler, Sophie Germain, Kummer, and many others? The problem itself has no useful application or extension, and as stated seems like just another piece of obstinate trivia. So why is it mathematically interesting?<br />The answer, of course, is that attacks on the problem revealed deep and important connections between elementary number theory and various other branches of mathematics, such as the theory of rings. Thus, as so often in mathematics, the importance of the problem lies in where it leads the mind, rather than in the problem itself. Harold M. Edwards' book<br />is a minor classic of exposition, showing how the instincts of top-flight research mathematicians lead them to fruitful work from a seemingly unimportant starting point. I'm only sorry that Professor Edwards seems never to have completed the second volume he had hoped to write.<br />Thus book deserves to be read by a much larger audience than it has gotten; in particular, I believe every graduate student in math who hopes to do good research, regardless of specialty, would benefit from reading it. Beyond that, any mathematically inclined reader with a modicum of training in math, is likely to find this a fascinating book.	2001-07-24
US	50626947	R1RRQ2NMWLRCOY	0471608424	405116550	001: Differential and Integral Calculus, Vol. 1	Books	5	84	88	N	N	What a wonderful book!	This two-volume text, originally written in German while Courant was still at Gottingen, is very much better for a serious student than most introductory texts on analysis. Most introductory texts have a flavor of having been written by geniuses for idiots; in this book, Courant treats the student as being his peer in intellect and interest, lacking only knowledge. This makes it an excellent book even for somebody reasonably familiar with the calculus. Although it covers the material from a strictly classical viewpoint, the text and the examples provide enough thinking material to help the student understand the motivation that led to measure theory, Lebesgue-Stieltjes integration, and algebraic topology; the wellsprings of these in classical analysis are seldom explained in modern math courses. So I can recommend it to any senior planning to do graduate work in math, or to any first-year graduate student in math. And of course, it can be well used as a first calculus text for students who are prepared to think and put in effort on the subject.<br />Courant himself, of course, was a great mathematician, although I don't personally consider him one of the greatest mathematicians of the 20th century; he was a better leader and inspirer of others than a creator of new mathematics. But among other things, he served as David Hilbert's personal assistant for two years, and this gave him superb judgment about what's important and what isn't. This shows throughout the book.<br />It also helps that the translator into English was E. J. McShane. McShane is less well-known than he perhaps deserves to be, because he was a truly first-rate mathematical researcher (in analysis) himself. This, together with the fact that McShane spent a year or two at Gottingen while Courant was still leading the Mathematics Institute at Gottingen, and came to know Courant well, allowed McShane to translate Courant's text with great understanding of<br />Courant's way of thinking.<br />My own copyof this text, bought more than 50 years ago, is in tatters, because I still haul it out and re-read pieces of it to connect my thinking when I'm groping.	2001-07-22
US	50626947	R1I6Y8RZ6BR4AA	0385499078	218243212	Body of Secrets: Anatomy of the Ultra-Secret National Security Agency	Books	2	276	325	N	Y	A good and worthwhile read, but read with caution.	&quot;Body of Secrets&quot; has been reviewed by so many that another review may seem superfluous, but perhaps I have something to add.<br />The book is well worth reading; it contains a lot of previously unpublished information, and on a few of those items that I can cross-check either from personal knowledge or from other sources, Bamford's statements of specific facts are correct. However, I have three criticisms of the book.<br />First, although the book is asserted to be about NSA, much of what's in it has little to do with NSA. For example, the discussion of US efforts to unseat the Castro government of Cuba, including the Bay of Pigs episode, has very little to do with NSA, and a great deal to do with the Eisenhower and Kennedy administrations and the CIA. And Bamford's account of it is so incomplete that it could easily mislead readers who haven't studied the topic. E.g. if one knows how skeptical Richard Helms of CIA was about Bay of Pigs, and that Allan Dulles chose to ignore Helms, and if one knows how many people knew and said that the change of landing site negated whatever chance Bissell's original plan might have had, it seems clear that nothing NSA might have known, said or done could have affected that operation or its result. Bamford seems to have included this material more because it was sensational than because it had much to do with NSA.<br />Indeed, the entire book seems to have been written with James Bond-type adventure stories in mind. The vast majority of NSA's work is about as exciting as growing alfalfa; rewarding, and requiring experience and skill, but only exciting on rare occasions. So this book does not give a balanced picture of what NSA does or how it does it.<br />Worst of all, Bamford fails to understand how much of what he writes about he doesn't know. Being able to realize what you don't know about something is a key difficulty in intelligence work (and in many other sorts of work); the mind plays tricks on one, composing a coherent picture from incomplete evidence. This difficulty applies equally to writing about intelligence work, but Bamford seems not to grasp this fundamental principle. For example, considering the Israeli attack on USS Liberty, I know that I do not know certain key facts, and I'm fairly sure that no other one person knows all the key facts either, and I doubt that anybody ever will. But Bamford writes about it as if he does know all the facts; because he does this, his account contains much interpretation that he seems, unless one reads very carefully, to be presenting as fact. That's why this part of the book has caused so much controversy. It's a serious failing throughout the book.<br />I'll cite one very minor item of which I have knowledge to show why I react to Bamford's book as I do. On page 161, Bamford mentions discontent in 1957 at the operation in Asmara, Eritrea. I don't know whether his account is precisely correct in what it says; I do know it's incomplete. Athough I have never been in Asmara, I relayed Navy traffic from Asmara for almost three years, so I heard the Asmara crew's complaints. There was discontent in Asmara for at least five years before 1957, and the underlying cause was not arbitrary restrictions imposed by the command. Career people on remote outposts are expert at evading edicts from anybody anywhere; if they weren't, such &quot;orphaned&quot; stations couldn't operate at all. But although Asmara was said to be a pretty town with a nice climate, there was very little to do in Asmara (except work) that most of the guys wanted to do. To make it worse, when they could get leave the only place they could usually get to, as a practical matter, was Dhahran, Saudi Arabia, where the climate was awful and there was even less to do than in Asmara. So a lot of the guys in Asmara wound up sort of climbing the walls. This, more than restrictions imposed by the command, explains the 1957 &quot;strike&quot; that Bamford writes about. And this is agood small example, first, of Bamford not noticing that he didn't have all the facts, and, second, that most intelligence work is not exciting, heroic or dangerous, even though it's important.<br />In short, this book is a good read and worth reading, but should be read with attentive caution.	2001-06-09
US	50626947	RU4A104XU4IIT	0670859508	909606724	Crypto: How the Code Rebels Beat the Government--Saving Privacy in the Digital Age	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Very good, but incomplete	This book is an entertaining account of many of the people and episodes involved in making cryptography and cryptanalysis a respectable and important topic of work for scientists and engineers not affiliated with any government agency. The incidents recounted that I happen to know about personally are well and accurately described here. But there are a couple of gaps.<br />First, some of the key players &quot;on the outside&quot; are not mentioned; this may well be because most of those who aren't mentioned by now are &quot;insiders.&quot; But this results in some of this book being a bit misleading. For example, serious work on cryptanalysis by outsiders, including one piece of work that Admiral Inman, when head of NSA, described as &quot;the most brilliant piece of civilian cryptanalysis since World War II&quot;, was already going on by the late 1970s; this had serious national security implications, and helps to explain why NSA was so ambivalent about &quot;outsiders&quot; engaging in *any* crypto research. Overall, although NSA goofed badly several times, I think they managed to keep a more balanced view on the issue than I might have expected. The fact that Levy doesn't mention some of the key &quot;outsider&quot; work suggests to me that he may not have talked with (or at least didn't gain the confidence of) such people as Cipher Deavours and David Kahn, who could have given him perspective on the &quot;outsider&quot; work that he doesn't discuss.<br />Secondly, I infer that he was unable to get any of the NSA side of the story from NSA itself. This is a pity. It's presumably not Levy's fault; NSA only talks to people it decides to talk to, and then says only what it decides needs to be said. I assume that Levy tried to get information from NSA and failed; I don't know. But if NSA stonewalled Levy, it's because he didn't make the right contacts to get in touch with somebody who would have been willing to talk with him about NSA's viewpoint on various issues Levy discusses that are not sensitive in NSA's view. That extra information would have helped make Levy's book clearer and more complete. In spite of this, Levy is quite fair to NSA, which speaks well of his thoughtfulness and balance.<br />So, overall I regard this as a good book, well worth reading, provided one keeps in mind that it's not the complete story.	2001-05-13
US	50626947	R1UBKP0FOR6GAH	0375708111	458870497	The Elegant Universe: Superstrings, Hidden Dimensions, and the Quest for the Ultimate Theory	Books	2	40	45	N	N	Excellent but overenthusiastic	I've waited a year since first reading this book before reviewing it, to let my thoughts settle in and discuss it with a couple of knowledgeable friends. I am much less enthusiastic about it than most reviewers.<br />First, although it describes the theory of superstrings and the evolution of the theory quite clearly, the author is such an enthusiast that he leaves the impression that superstring theory solves more problems in physics than it does. I agree with the view of Gerard t'Hooft (1999 Nobel Prize winner): &quot;Imagine that I give you a chair while explaining that the legs are still missing, and that the seat, back and armrest will perhaps be delivered soon; whatever I did give you, can I still call it a chair?&quot;  Superstring theory is clearly onto something; in particular, it enables us to avoid some unjustifiable renormalizations that embarrass us in the &quot;standard theory&quot;. But so far, it has essentially no testable consequences that would clearly distinguish between it and the standard model.<br />This lack of testable consequences doesn't discourage the author or other workers in superstring theory, and perhaps it shouldn't. But it's a symptom of the fact that most of the workers in superstring theory are better mathematicians than they are physicists.  For example, Edward Witten, the guru of superstring theory, has won the Fields medal in mathematics, which is more exclusive than the Nobel prize in Physics, but so far as I can recall at the moment, nobody has won the Physics Nobel Prize for work on string theory or superstring theory.<br />Greene's book is an admirable explanation of why superstring theory was devised, and how it has progressed and is progessing. As such, it's well worth reading. But I have the extremely uncomfortable feeling that superstring theory will sooner or later have to be drastically modified, when someone with novel physical intuition or physical observational skill comes up with observational or experimental results that lead to a new idea, perhaps a very simple new idea, like the Heisenberg uncertainty principle or Special and General Relativity. (Heisenberg and Einstein were primarily physicists, not mathematicians.)<br />In particular, I will not feel comfortable with *any* approach to unified field theory until the Higgs particle has been unambiguously detected, and its mass measured fairly well. I think that will clarify the situation a great deal.<br />So, yes, if you are interested in modern physics at all, read this book. But as you read it, keep in mind that in trying to create a &quot;Theory of Everything&quot;, physics is in a situation very similar to that of physics in the year 1900; all the clues were there to lead to quantum mechanics and Special and General Relativity, but the right physicists hadn't yet had the right brilliant insights into physics.	2001-05-02
US	50626947	RSTCQQETTXJ6P	0521578833	659646372	In Search of the Ultimate Building Blocks	Books	5	35	37	N	N	Thoughtful and well balanced.	Gerard 't Hooft is one of the best and most thoughtful physicists in the world; there are many who think he should have received the Nobel Prize long before he finally did (in 1999). This short book is a marvel. It can be read with almost no prior knowledge of mathematics or physics, and it gives an extremely clear and well-balanced view of the well-established state of knowledge in particle physics and field theory as of 1997; little has changed in the intervening four years.<br />'t Hooft has his own prejudices and enthusiams, but in this book he tried scrupulously to stick with the mainstream concensus in the first 21 of 28 chapters. In the last seven chapters, he describes some of the current and more speculative work being done by various people all over the world who are attempting to create a &quot;Grand Theory of Everything&quot;.  This discussion is cautious and somewhat skeptical, as I believe it should be, but the underlying ideas of the various approaches are clearly described.<br />I consider 't Hooft to be one of the greatest physicists of the 20th century, and I consider this to be one of the half-dozen best books for laymen on any aspect of modern physics that I have come across.  I believe that's because 't Hooft himself thinks so clearly.	2001-05-02
US	50626947	R3PBW2O5XLV5R4	0195058097	117218212	Brazil: Five Centuries of Change (Latin American Histories)	Books	5	30	33	N	N	The best I've read, although not perfect	Of the three short (one-volume) histories of Brazil I've read recently, I consider this the best. Although I agree with Leonardo Alves that the early history is treated too briefly and with minor errors, the book is quite good on the modern history of Brazil. I have one minor criticism, and a wish.<br />Prof. Skidmore uses the words &quot;left&quot; and &quot;right&quot; regularly to describe the political orientation of important individuals and groups in Brazil. I found this confusing and misleading, until I realiized that I could get a coherent view by replacing &quot;left&quot; by &quot;reformist&quot; and &quot;right&quot; by &quot;conservative&quot; wherever they occur. The problem is that although &quot;left&quot; and &quot;right&quot; are a useful classification in some countries, they do not fit Brazil. For example, Cardoso is frequently considered to be a former leftist who has become a centrist liberal, but this is misleading. Cardoso has consistently been a reformer, wanting to make major changes in the political and economic structure of Brazil, and his only shifts have been tactical; his values and underlying views have not changed.  Similarly, it's very confusing to try to classify Goulart and his supporters into &quot;left&quot; and &quot;right.&quot; Goulart himself would have been considered a rightist in Europe; he wanted to return to the policies of Vargas; most of his supporters would have been considered &quot;leftists&quot; in Europe. To understand what happened during Goulart's presidency and why it was ended by a military coup, it's more useful to think of Goulart and all his supporters as &quot;reformist&quot; and the Army leadership as &quot;conservative.&quot; I recommend that other readers mentally substitute &quot;reformist&quot; for &quot;left&quot; and &quot;conservative&quot; for &quot;right&quot; when reading Skidmore's book.<br />My wish and hope is that some day soon a capable historian will write a longer and more comprehensive history of Brazil in English. Brazil is nearly as large as the USA and has nearly as many people; it has been settled by Europeans longer than the USA, and its culture throughout its history has been extremely diverse. It is just plain impossible to do justice to the history of Brazil in a short (250 or 300 pages) book; I think it would take something with two or three times as much material. Brazil is becoming more important in world affairs than most people in the USA realize, and it would be good to have a thorough text on Brazil's history in English.	2001-04-23
US	50626947	R3PPRXTHRI6MFD	0313303908	354472182	The History of Brazil	Books	4	23	24	N	N	Excellent, but with a specific outlook	This book is far more than a recitation of historical facts; it ties together the evolution of political, economic, cultural and social forces to show how Brazil came to be today. It's well worth reading; by a serious scholar, and with an excellent bibliography.<br />However, it presents the material from a particular viewpoint that makes its coverage somewhat selective, and possibly misleading on some topics. The underlying assumption of the book is that Brazil up until the 1990's was divided into a well-to-do politically empowered elite and an impoverished and mostly illiterate underclass, with little social mobility and no political influence. This assumption is too simplistic. At least by 1960 there was a large and thriving middle class, ranging from skilled industrial workers to well-educated professionals and a great number of independent small businessmen. Although these people were generally not rich, they could lead reasonably comfortable lives, and their political influence was (and has continued to be) much greater than Levine makes clear. For example, the social unrest that led to the military 1964 coup against President Goulart was most prominent in the middle class; I can testify to that because I was there while the strikes, demonstrations and protests were becoming more and more vigorous during 1961, '62 and '63, and I saw where the impetus was coming from.<br />A key fact that few Americans know (and even many Brazilians don't know) is that over the last 200+ years, the average rate of growth of GDP in Brazil has been higher than the average rate of growth of GDP in the United States. This is not immediately obvious, because Brazil still lags so far behind the USA in GDP per capita; it's explained by the fact that in the late 18th century the USA was already comparatively prosperous, whereas almost all Brazilians lived in abject poverty. So Brazil has been playing catchup, and has come a long ways, although still with a long way to go. Levine failsto point this out. He also writes as if the economic progress since the 1930s has only benefitted the elite, and this is just not so; much of the economic progress has been a steady enlargement of the middle class.<br />He also fails to point out the extent to which Brazil is now competitive in the world economy.  Brazil has exported hundreds of commercial aircraft to the United States; it supplies a significant fraction of US imports of pharmaceuticals; it exports machine tools to Germany; it exports automobiles to many coutries; it exports military hardware such as armored personnel carriers to a number of countries; and so on.  To be sure, it also exports plenty of commodity raw materials, but the recent economic stability in the face of falling commodity prices in the world market is largely due to Brazil's high-tech exports.<br />So, in short, this is a fine book, and I recommend it wholeheartedly, but read it with the understanding that it only gives part of the story.	2001-04-11
US	50626947	R3FBGQOKTIR5NR	3540668713	464246397	Decrypted Secrets: Methods and Maxims of Cryptology	Books	5	34	34	N	Y	Superb!	This is an amazing book, and relatively inexpensive; Springer-Verlag has done it again.<br />Rather than being a dry recitation of encryption and cryptanalysis schemes, Bauer provides a great deal of information about what actually goes wrong when one tries to construct a cipher that must be used under pressure by non-cryptologists, with plenty of historical examples to illustrate his points. And he discusses at some length the ways in which cryptanalysts can hope to unravel ciphers and codes too strong to be broken by standard methods. Much of what he has to say I had never seen in print before; some of it was brand new to me. Perhaps it helps that Bauer is German, and doesn't have to write with the uneasy feeling that NSA or MI-6 is looking over his shoulder at every line he writes. For example, his explanation of how Robert Murphy compromised an American cipher in WW II so badly that the Germans could read it easily is one that I think some American officials would probably still prefer not to have in print.<br />Despite comments by other reviewers and by Cryptologia, I think it requires a certain mathematical sophistication to absorb much of the material in this book. The math is not hard, but Bauer implicitly assumes a mathematical mindset and a familiarity with the terminology of pure mathematics that most college undergraduates don't have. So I wouldn't choose it as the primary text for a first course in cryptology, but I would certainly use it as a supplementary text. I know of no other book that contains so much material on the practical realities of cryptology.	2001-03-19
US	50626947	R1Y8GM5DYRG3W3	0814766773	595959015	Morocco since 1830: A History	Books	5	51	51	N	N	A badly needed and accurate history	Morocco was the first nation with which the USA ever signed a treaty of peace and friendship, in June of 1786, and the two countries have been friends ever since. In November, 1942 Moroccan troops helped American troops evict Vichy French troops and the &quot;German Armistice Commission&quot; from Morocco.  However, the history of Morocco is not well known in the USA, largely because there has been no good book in English on the subject until this one.<br />Having been an eyewitness of events in Morocco from 1951 to 1954, and having talked to many residents of Morocco (Arab, Berber, French, etc.) about their recollections, I am deeply impressed by how much Pennell knows about the period I saw or heard about. For example, he briefly mentions a fact I never expected to see in print: that many (perhaps most) of the weapons used by the Moroccan independence movement in the '50s were supplied by American enlisted men and junior officers on bases in Morocco; the weapons were gotten from NATO stocks in Europe and flown secretly into Morocco by US military pilots in USAF and USN aircraft. Because every American involved was risking a general court-martial, they all took great care to keep this traffic a secret. But Pennell mentions it in one sentence, although he doesn't quite get it correct. Amazing that he found about it at all!<br />I could cite various other facts that I'm surprised Pennell unearthed. However, he doesn't always get the context quite right. For example, after discussing the final phase of French military conquest in 1934, he leaves the impression that French rule in the French &quot;Protectorate&quot; was complete. He seems to be unaware that the fighting in the High Atlas and AntiAtlas had been so difficult that the French unofficially agreed that they would not attempt to establish French rule in certain parts of those areas, provided that the Berber tribes didn't take military action against the French elsewhere.<br />He also has a difficult time disentangling the activities and motives of Si Thami El Glaoui, the pasha of Marrakesh from 1918 to 1956. This is not surprising; El Glaoui was one of the most complex and enigmatic characters of the 20th Century. Pennell portrays El Glaoui basically as a supporter of the French, and of conservative forces. I believe this is somewhat of a misinterpretation. El Glaoui used the French, and was used by the French, for most of El Glaoui's years in power; however, El Glaoui's primary motive was neither radical nor conservative, neither pro-European nor anti-European, neither a modernizer nor a foot-dragger. El Glaoui's overriding motive was to keep the Berber tribes of Central and Southern Morocco united enough, under his control, to prevent them from being completely subjugated by the French, the Arabs, or anybody else. To do that, he would have made a pact with the Devil, and several times more or less did. This doesn't come across clearly in Pennell's book, although he has his facts straight about El Glaoui's words and actions.<br />And he fails to convey clearly the unpredictability and occasional intensity of the fighting between the independence movement on one side and the French and Spanish on the other, throughout the period between the start of the independence movement and the achievement of independence. Indeed, by 1952, some senior French civil servants in Morocco considered that the French had already lost, and by 1954 the heart of the Casablanca Arab section was completely under control of the independence movement; no French force smaller than a platoon could enter that area without taking heavy casualties.<br />Despite such minor quibbles, this is an admirable, carefully researched book, with plenty of source notes and a good bibliography. I believe it will be the standard work on its subject for many years.	2001-03-13
US	50626947	RTMLYWUS3FQKX	0810160110	330351361	The Sea and the Jungle (Marlboro Travel Series)	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Fascinating, funny and informative	Tomlinson traveled in a ship hauling cargo to the head of navigation on the Madeira River, cargo for construction of the Madeira-Mamore railway. At that time, the upper reaches of the Madeira were as wild and inaccesible as any place on earth, including Antarctica. It's said that a man died for every crosstie on the railroad, and that's probably not a huge exaggeration. So Tomlinson's trip was a true adventure, even though his writing style is modest.<br />His account of the Amazon and the Madeira near the beginning of the 20th century is fascinating, and his anecdotes about his time at the construction site are hilarious. He comes across as a modest man with an adventurous streak and a wonderful sense of humor. This book is a delight to read as a sheer travel adventure.<br />It is also the only easy-reading description I've encountered of what was then the sheer wilderness of much of Amazonia was like before it was opened up by the advent of airplanes and the construction of the Trans-Amazon Highway. Even now, much of Brazil's part of the Amazon basin is wild, but now one can get in and out of all but the most remote spots conveniently. In Tomlinson's day, a million square miles was still mostly unmapped and almost unexplored; reading this book is an easy way of learning what true wilderness was like.<br />I recommend it highly; it's one of my favorite books.	2001-02-24
US	50626947	RU3IK0GEGYWT	0309054753	316789862	Cryptography's Role in Securing the Information Society	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Essential, but with two flaws	This book, prepared by the Committee to Study National Cryptography Policy of the Computer Science and Telecommunications Board of the National Research Council, is essential reading for anybody concerned with the role of crytography in information security. Written by experts, it surveys the topic dispassionately, and makes wise recommendations. No technical knowledge is required to read it, so it is suitable for everyone from policymakers to techies.<br />It has two flaws, one minor and inevitable, the other more serious. The first stems from the fact that the National Research Council undertakes studies like this only at the request of the US government. The federal government is notorious for its belief that anything worth saying should be said in the dullest possible bureaucratese. I know the staff members who produced the actual text of this book; they are excellent writers, and did their best to make the book readable within the constraints imposed by government mindset, but it's still dull and tedious to read. Compared to the Federal Register, however, it's a model of expository clarity.<br />The second flaw is the very cursory treatment given to one of the most serious problems in using cryptography for information security. The great majority of civilian computers, and even some military computers, are vulnerable to a wide variety of viruses, worms and trojan horses, and in most cases the users and system administrators are unaware of how vulnerable they are.<br />Cryptography is completely useless as a protective mechanism if cleartext or keys can be retrieved and transmitted from an originating or destination computer by a program inserted by an attacker. Equally serious, if the attacker substitutes trojan horse code for the encipherment/decipherment techniques employed, the whole system is wide open. I regard this as the current greatest weakness in the use of cryptography for information security, except within certain parts of the military. I dn't have any good ideas at all about how to plug this weakness, but it deserves much more careful attention than it gets in this book. If you are responsible for any aspect of computer or communications security, think hard about this problem.	2001-02-21
US	50626947	R330474MXO58N9	0517884410	107960379	Relativity: The Special and the General Theory	Books	5	24	24	N	N	The clearest explanation I know	It seems as if at least two or three books are published every year to explain the concepts of special and general relativity to the public. I haven't encountered another one as good as this.<br />Contrary to widespread misconception, Albert Einstein was not an exceptionally expert mathematician. His justly deserved fame rests on the fact that he had an incredible intuition for physics, and a willingness to think the unthinkable whenever that seemed to be where the physics led. So it's not surprising that he could explain both the concepts of special relativity and those of general relativity in clear, simple language suitable for the non-technical reader. The result is a masterpiece, especially the discussion of general relativity.<br />The mathematics of general relativity in its applications is esoteric, to say the least; any reader who wishes to glimpse this can take a look at Robert M. Wald's book &quot;General Relativity.&quot;  But the underlying ideas are very simple, simple enough to be easily grasped by any 11th or 12th grade student in an &quot;academic&quot; curriculum.  The problem with them is that for most people the ideas are counterintuitive. The other books for laypeople that I've looked at go through all sorts of contortions to make the ideas plausible. Einstein doesn't. He proceeds steadily, simply and logically to show how special relativity follows from direct observation. Then he points out that special relativity is only useful in certain exceptional cases, and asks himself (and us) what properties a more general physical theory must have to be consistent both with observation and with special relativity. General relativity just lands in our laps as a result of this simple train of thought.<br />I treasure this book.	2001-02-21
US	50626947	R3T3UPWJAEQIRC	0849304814	486714309	Handbook of Chemistry and Physics, 81st Edition	Books	3	42	43	N	N	It's getting out of hand	For 50 years this has been one of my primary reference works, and it still is. It's essential. But over the years, as knowledge has expanded and the book has expanded, the editors have had to make more and more hard choices about what to include and what to leave out. By now, so much is necessarily left out of a single-volume work that I find it less useful than I used to.<br />For example, if I want to find out about the chemistry and toxicology of thorium compounds and the decay processes of thorium isotopes, the CRC handbook doesn't give me enough information to be useful; I must consult more specialized works.  Similarly, if I'm interested in a chemical as widely used as hydrogen peroxide, I cannot find enough information here to help me determine the reactivity and hazards of aqueous solutions of hydrogen peroxide in various concentrations; this is essential information for anyone working with hydrogen peroxide in concentrations varying from 30% to 85%.<br />Whether it's kept in a single-volume format or not, I will continue to regard this as an essential reference on my bookshelf, and every few years will buy an updated copy. However, I wish the editors would disentangle it into a series of more specialized volumes, to allow better treatment of much of the material.	2001-02-20
US	50626947	R33FFAPKHDGRS5	0070674396	602619491	Adam's & Victor's Principles of Neurology	Books	4	6	23	N	N	Many parents should read this	This is a standard medical textbook written for med students and residents; for laypeople it is not easy reading.  However, millions of parents should read it, even if it's difficult.<br />The human brain is so complex that no two of us have identical capabilities or limitations; but we all have limitations.  Most of us are fortunate to have limitations slight enough so that we learn just with the usual help of parents, friends, teachers and community to transcend or work around our limitations and lead full, productive lives as adults.  However, a significant fraction of children have limitations severe enough to need extra help. There's where the trouble starts.<br />The problems usually get noticed in nursery school, kindergarten or first grade. Unfortunately, most such children's problems get pigeonholed into one of a small number of descriptive phrases, such as &quot;hyperactive&quot;, &quot;dyslexic&quot;, &quot;autistic&quot;, &quot;attention deficit disorder&quot;, &quot;adacemically challenged&quot;, or some such. By and large, these descriptions are usually grossly correct descriptions of observed behavior, but they are frequently incomplete, and distressingly often they are wrong. For example, it is essentially impossible for a neurologist working with a psychiatrist to determine whether a child less than six years old is actually autistic, but four- and five-year olds are routinely labelled &quot;autistic.&quot; And once these labels are applied, they tend to stick; this can lead to incomplete help, or help of the wrong kind.<br />These failures are not the fault of teachers, social workers, psychologists or physicians. They come about because accurate differential diagnosis of the hundreds of different neurological and biochemical problems that can cause behavioral problems is extraordinarily difficult, requiring more extended observation, and in many cases more psychological and neurological testing, than can be made available to all the children withproblems. But if the problem is misdiagnosed or incompletely diagnosed, the help that's given to the child is unlikely to be as effective as if an accurate diagnosis were known.<br />Parents cannot replace professionals, but they can and should supplement professionals in these situations. Parents observe their children in a wider variety of circumstances, and for more of the time, than any professional can hope to do.  By propiding accurate descriptions of the variations in a child's behavior depending on the circumstances in which the child is placed, parents can greatly assist neurologists and psychologists in making an accurate diagnosis.<br />But what's relevant? Every professional is used to being deluged with irrelevancies from his or her clients. To be able to provide information that's relevant and helpful, the parents need to have some idea of how the brain works, the ways in which brain function can be impaired, the extent to which children compensate for such impairments on their own, and what behaviors may indicate a problem that falls partly or completely outside the conventional pigeonholes. For parents whose young children are said to have intellectual or emotional problems of any sort, this book is *MUST* reading, even if it takes a year to read it. The basic knowledge of neurology given in this book is enough to let parents decide whether the behaviors they see are fully consistent with the label that's being pinned on the child, or whether further exploration, and perhaps different treatment or assistance, may be called for.<br />This still leaves the problem of where such parents can go for more advice and help; that I can't provide an answer to. But at least the parents in such cases can search for additional professional advice.<br />In short, if your young child has a problem in school, read this book, no matter how hard it is or how long it takes you!	2001-02-20
US	50626947	RHLJQ434VQXH3	0137523467	649473891	Radar: Principles, Technology, Applications	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The definitive text on radar	This book is admirably suited to either a one-semester or two-semester course in radar principles and design.  More than that, it contains a good deal of information that's useful even to those of us who have designed and worked with radars for many years.<br />The common faults of written material on radar are either to focus too narrowly on one aspect of the topic, or to omit material on the assumption that it must be classified when in fact it is not. Edde's book avoids both pitfalls. He gives thorough, comprehensive information on all sorts of radars, past and present, designed for various uses, and leaves the conscientious reader prepared to think clearly about where to start when confronted with a request for something new and different.<br />Suppose you were asked to sketch out an initial design for a radar whose purpose is to track bird migration on the Atlantic flyway. Where would you start? What criteria would you strive to meet? To what extent could you hope to distinguish between types of migrating birds? What help might you hope to provide for keeping track of individual flocks during migration? What design techniques might be useful? How much of what kind of signal processing would you expect to need?<br />I don't know about you, but left to my own devices I could stumble around for quite a while contemplating such questions.  To avoid wasting time this way, I would sit down and rapidly skim Edde's book again, cover to cover, taking notes on what might be useful ideas and starting points.<br />If you are professionally concerned with radar, you need this book.	2001-02-20
US	50626947	R3LTEPQ097NL67	0828401071	388821679	001: Theory of Groups, Volume 1 (Chelsea Publications)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Old and out of date, but important	Group theory has advanced greatly since Kurosh wrote this book in 1952, and for a first course in the subject it would be inappropriate to use Kurosh as a text. However, Chelsea keeps it sporadically in print, because it's an important book: the first book on theory of groups with a modern outlook on the subject.<br />Kurosh was a remarkably clear thinker and writer, and K. A. Hirsch did an excellent job of translation, so this book is very readable for anyone who is already familiar with the rudiments of the subject. It's worth careful study; not many mathematics texts give so much insight into the thinking of a master of the topic.  And, algebra in general as well as group theory in particular, is more about insight than about particular results, so reading this book can help a current student of mathematics to grow in professional skill. I recommend it wholeheartedly.	2001-02-20
US	50626947	R25I2P1FGYN6Z9	0691036667	415164822	The Mathematical Career of Pierre de Fermat, 1601-1665	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A fine account of Fermat's work	There is a tremendous mythology surrounding Fermat, and interest in Fermat is high because of Wiles' proof of &quot;Fermat's last theorem.&quot;  Fermat was undoubtedly a genius, but exactly what he did and didn't do will never be clear, because he wrote so little about his methods and his proofs. Mahoney's book comes as close as I think it's possible to come in figuring out what Fermat's mathematical interests and methods were, what he proved and what he didn't.  Only high school math is required to read this book easily; the writing style is clear, and the structure of the book is well organized.<br />Some readers may be disappointed to learn that Fermat's abilities were only human, and that he made a number of mistakes. But even a genius is entitled to be less than perfect, and the real Fermat is in many ways more interesting than the myth. I recommend this book to anyone curious about Fermat's mathematical abilities and achievements.	2001-02-19
US	50626947	R3AEWTW069I656	0821819380	614937	History of the Theory of Numbers (3 Volumes)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Absolutely essential reference	This long book is sort of the equivalent of an extremely long review paper, with innumerable references. It is the only work of its kind on Theory of Numbers. Written in the early 1920s, it is still the only place where one can find information on who did what in various topics of number theory, and many of those topics are still fertile ground for further research. So if one wants to do research on any topic in theory of numbers, or on related aspects of algebra, topology, Ramsey Theory, theory of graphs, etc. one *must* have Dickson's book handy. It's expensive; if you're lucky, a colleague or your departmental library may have a copy handy for you, but if not, go ahead and spend the money to buy it. It has been of great use to me.	2001-02-11
US	50626947	R35WNE2D0MPH4L	0684831309	763736752	The Codebreakers: The Comprehensive History of Secret Communication from Ancient Times to the Internet	Books	5	166	171	N	N	Superb, but not perfect	This book is not intended to teach the reader how to design or cryptanalyze codes and ciphers; it is a history book, and a really great one. However, the reader should be aware of a couple of things that may not be apparent.<br />First, the 1996 &quot;revised edition&quot; differs from the 1967 first edition only in the addition of a final chapter to cover what Kahn didn't know (or didn't choose to include) in the 1967 edition. The first 26 of 27 chapters, and the references and bibliography associated with them, are essentially identical to those of the 1967 edition. This means that a number of statements and passages in the first 26 chapters, although correct in 1967, are misleading if one assumes they were written in 1996. I recommend that the reader skim Chapter 27 quickly before reading the rest of the book, so as not to misunderstand any of what's in earlier chapters.<br />Second, keep in mind that in 1967 Kahn was essentially an outsider so far as the intelligence community was concerned, but by 1996 he was definitely regarded as an insider. Hence, the new final chapter is written with complete respect for the sensitivities of the intelligence community, which the original book was not. I was surprised to see one particular statement in the last chapter until I realized that NSA wants to correct a misapprehension widely held outside the community. Much more important, Kahn now knows a great deal that he has chosen to omit from the last chapter, including much that's unclassified but still regarded by somebody as sensitive for one reason or another. He even omits certain material that he made publicly available some years ago in his written testimony to a Congressional subcommittee. So the reader should understand that this book says less than it might about various aspects of the history of cryptology and its impact dating back as far as World War II. Whether this is good or bad depends on where one sits; if one is concerned about the sensitivities of various governments, it's good; if one wants to know as much as one can about the history of cryptology since 1940 that's not still clasified, it's bad.governments, it's good; if one wants to know as much as one can about the history of cryptology since 1940 that's not still clasified, it's bad.	2001-02-04
US	50626947	R2VPT98SCTBHNW	0890061610	900665982	Machine Cryptography and Modern Cryptanalysis (Artech House Telecom Library)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Good on Hebern- and Hegelin- type machines	As with a great many books, the title of this book promises more than it delivers. However, it is well worth reading if one is seriously interested in cryptology or the history of cryptology.<br />Most of the machine ciphers of World War II, and many of the machine ciphers used for a very long time thereafter, derived in one way or another from the ciphers invented by Hebern and Hegelin. For example, the German Enigma was derived from Hebern's approach by Willi Korn, and the American M-209 from Hegelin's approach. The list of machines and designers using one or the other of these two methods would be very long indeed. Alan Konheim's excellent 1981 book &quot;Cryptography: A Primer&quot; deals only very briefly with ciphers of these imortant and widespread types; Deavours and Kruh fill this gap.<br />&quot;Machine Cryptography and Modern Cryptanalysis&quot; offers a great deal of information on the strengths and weaknesses of these machines, and on the cryptanalytic methods used for attacking such ciphers. It does not discuss a number of other techniques of cryptography, such as NDES and public key ciphers. But what it does discuss is very valuable. Anyone who studies it carefully will wind up equipped to break a wide variety of widely used ciphers.<br />I would give this book an even more enthusiastic review if it weren't for a problem the authors allude to in the introduction: &quot;The book is incomplete, as it must be. The totality of what happened is buried in a thousand classified documents which will never be made public.&quot; Well, that's true, but what's also true is that this book fails to discuss some important stuff on its topic that can be found in unclassified but unpublished documents, at least some of which I feel confident that Deavours was familiar with in 1985, when this book was written. One has to stop somewhere when writing a book; Deavours and Kruh probably made a wise choice about what not to include. But I hope that some day in the near future Deavours (or somebody) will be able to update this book by adding some of what Deavours and Kruh left out.re Deavours (or somebody) will be able to update this book by adding some of what Deavours and Kruh left out.	2001-01-30
US	50626947	R1AET2NXQDWFVR	019285304X	184401627	Codebreakers: The Inside Story of Bletchley Park	Books	3	19	20	N	Y	Lots of good info; some topics missing	This book is a set of essays by people who actually worked at Bletchley Park during World War II, and describes in some detail what they did. Much of it is dry reading. That's because real cryptology is mostly dry work; months of boredom interrupted by moments of joy or chagrin. For those who care about World War II cryptology this is a &quot;must read,&quot; but read either the 1967 or the 1996 edition of David Kahn's &quot;The Codebreakers&quot; first; otherwise, some of this book won't make much sense, for lack of context.<br />Some of the most interesting work done at Bletchley Park, and some of the most valuable people who worked there, are not mentioned at all in this book; not even a hint. I assume this is because of two problems: the British Official Secrets Act presumably still applies to a good deal of what happened at Bletchley Park, and the topics of inquiry that involved both British and American personnel could hardly be described in detail without the agreement of NSA, which might be hard to come by in some cases. I wish that two friends of mine who worked at Bletchley Park had been able to write memoirs of their work and their interactions with colleagues. But that didn't happen. However, we can hope that the remaining veil of official silence will be lifted some day.	2001-01-10
US	50626947	R3LD8RLSM29DG	0131949861	311573510	Cryptography: An Introduction to Computer Security (Advances in Computer Science Series)	Books	2	1	3	N	N	A book mismatched to its subject	Cryptography is a fascinating and important subject; so is computer security. But as all of us know who have suffered from breaches of computer security, cryptography, although a useful tool, is only one small aspect of computer security. This book is quite a nice book on cryptography, although not the best; I recommend Bruce Schneier's book and Alan Konheim's book as better texts on cryptography for anyone seriously interested in cryptography. However, the relationship of this book to the subject of computer security is sort of like that of a book on padlocks to the care and protection of racehorses. <br />Unfortunately, there is no book I know of that gives adequate treatment even to the role of cryptography in computer security, let alone to the entire subject of computer security, so we learn the hard way, from our mistakes. The only book I know that places this topic in proper perspective is &quot;Cryptography's Role In Securing The Information Society&quot; created in 1996 by the Computer Science and Technology Board of the National Research Council, and published by the National Academy Press. This latter book is kind of interminably boring, and it raises far more questions than it answers, but it's the best we've got; it's well balanced, and was prepared by a group of hard-bitten scientists and engineers with lots of practical experience (plenty of it bad.) So if you want to know how cryptography relates to computer security (maybe), read this latter book, not Seberry and Pieprzyck.	2000-12-24
US	50626947	R35WPTJEQUI8ND	0140067485	503302609	The Puzzle Palace: Inside the National Security Agency, America's Most Secret Intelligence Organization	Books	4	59	63	N	N	What's Bamford going to say next?	When &quot;The Puzzle Palace&quot; first came out in 1982, it caused a certain amount of controversy and angst. Bamford now has a new book on NSA scheduled to appear this Spring. I wonder what it will contain? &quot;The Puzzle Palace&quot; was quite a good job of investigative reporting, especially considering the customary reluctance of NSA to reveal much about itself. I found &quot;The Puzzle Palace&quot; an interesting read, and I learned much from it that I had not learned during my 20 years of previous occasional contact with NSA. The book is not friendly to NSA, but neither is it muckraking.<br />In the 1980s I wished that &quot;The Puzzle Palace&quot; had not been written; it seemed to me to contain considerable material that would have best been left unpublished (and would have been if the United States had anything like the British Official Secrets Act.) Looking back from the vantage point of 2001, I note only one brief item in &quot;The Puzzle Palace&quot; that I know harmed the United States, and in that case the harm was minor. (Furthermore, Bamford got that item from a senior NSA official, and may not have know that it was sensitive.) And I note several places where Bamford must have known certain things he chose to omit from &quot;The Puzzle Palace&quot; that might indeed have imperiled some aspect of national security, even though they were not, are not, and never have been classified. So, overall, I consider that Bamford walked the tightrope quite well in &quot;The Puzzle Palace.&quot;<br />It will be interesting not only to read his new book when it comes out, but also to compare the new book with &quot;The Puzzle Palace.&quot; I intend to keep them side by side on my bookshelf.	2000-12-23
US	50626947	R2KQ8R2CPGJ8LF	0486200973	838765352	Cryptanalysis: A Study of Ciphers and Their Solution	Books	3	70	76	N	N	Useful, worth reading, but superseded by Konheim	When Helen Gaines wrote this book in 1939 (and, by the way, she titled it &quot;Elementary Cryptanalysis&quot;, not just &quot;Cryptanalysis&quot;, it was by far the best unclassified introduction to cryptology written in English (perhaps even in any language). It is still an admirable book for anyone who wants to start learning cryptology without help; the large number of carefully worked examples and exercises make it excellent for &quot;do it yourself.&quot; And for those who intend to make a serious study of modern cryptology, this book is still a useful assist, in the same sense that a vivid and comprehensive memory of high school algebra helps a lot when one tries to learn calculus and differential equations.<br />However, crytology in 2001 is as different from cryptology in 1939 as a Virginia-class submarine is from a pre-WW II sub. So, if it were me, I would start learning from Alan Konheim's book, using Gaines' book as a supplementary text for clarification and examples. Konheim's book requires one to know or learn a certain amount of math that Gaines doesn't require, but since about 1960 it has become very hard to grasp (let alone use) modern crytographic methods without at least as much math as Konheim uses, so one might just as well bite the bullet and learn it.	2000-12-23
US	50626947	R2ECO2FMX4PED5	0471081329	455237317	Cryptography: A Primer	Books	5	34	34	N	N	Excellent, but with a few minor gaps	Konheim tried in 1981 to do what Helen Gaines tried to do in 1939; to provide a basic working knowledge of the state of the art in cryptology to people with little or no previous knowledge. By and large, Konheim succeeded admirably. He had to overcome two major hurdles. By 1981 the amount known in the public domain about cryptology was very large: too large for a modest-sized book like this. And the basis of the topic had become largely mathematical, which is a put-off for many readers. Konheim copes beautifully with both problems, selecting important material and skipping less important material, and limiting the mathematics to what can almost all be followed by a high-school science honors student (although it helps to have at least three years of college math.) I would love to use this book as the text for a one semester course.<br />Having said that, I'll offer a few minor criticisms. The whole art of cryptology (as distinct from the mathematics) lies in dealing with the fallibility of people who design and use (or don't use) crypto systems. Konheim doesn't emphasize this enough. For example, cypher-text-only cryptanalysis of a good modern cypher is apt to be extremely hard, but it is often unnecessary. Konheim does not discuss the enormous diversity of ways in which the cryptanalyst may hope to acquire plaintext or probable plaintext. Professional designers of ciphers and codes know all about this, and their choices are heavily influenced by the need to limit damage when, for example, a general sends a back-channel message in a weak cipher that has the same content as an official message in a strong cipher.<br />He also fails to discuss in detail just how hard it is for the designer of a cipher to create a cipher as strong as the designer believes it to be. This is unfortunate, but I can't lay the blame on Konheim. Most of the most interesting anecdotes to illustrate this point (such as the reasons why NSA rejected LUCIFER and instead worked with IBM to createNDES) are sort of known in the folklore, but not really in the public domain, so could not be included in a college textbook.  This is also presumably why Konheim chose not to mention the earliest, original discussions about public key ciphers.<br />I'll also observe that Konheim's discussion of rotor ciphers is remarkably brief, in view of the importance and widespread use of various types of rotor ciphers in many countries for many years. I understand why Konheim decided not to delve into this topic in detail, but it leaves a serious gap in the student's knowledge. Similarly, Konheim's discussion of NDES pays little attention to chaining and related topics, although he surely had access to the NBS unclassified manual on this subject.<br />And finally, Konheim devotes less attention than I could wish to the problems of generating, distributing and safeguarding keys. There is a popular belief that RSA with a suitably long key is nearly impregnable, for example, and there is good reason for this belief, but only provided that nobody can steal keys or guess them. Stealing and guessing keys is a game not restricted to cryptology (or computing); it has occured to a huge number of people over the years that the easiest way to get at something you're not supposed to get at is to steal or make a copy of the key. How else could so much pilferage from locked storage rooms and &quot;secure&quot; file cabinets take place? The same problem arises in cryptology, and it's one of the most interesting aspects of the field.<br />All this being said, however, this is a wonderful book.	2000-12-22
US	50626947	R1DD62GQNQRKI1	0894122614	387912076	Secret & Urgent: The Story of Codes & Ciphers	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Admirable easy introduction to cryptology	I agree with Mark Riordan's concern about inaccuracies in Fletcher Pratt's book, but I recommend reading &quot;Secret and Urgent&quot; before reading Kahn's book, unless you are already familiar with cryptology. Pratt's book actually leads the reader step by step through the classic processes for breaking ciphers, from simple substitution up through Vigniere ciphers with disordered arrays with long keys. And he gives useful small examples of how to break codes. Kahn doesn't cover this elementary material. Someone who has read Pratt's book is in a much better position to understand what's hard and what's easy in trying to break such ciphers as Enigma, Fish and the M-209, and such codes as the various forms of &quot;Purple&quot;.<br />This, in turn, helps the reader fit into context what the driving forces are behind such more recent ciphers as RSA and the NDES.  In short: if you want to understand not only where cryptology is but also where it's been going, Pratt's little book (if the reader actually works through the examples) is a really good starting point.	2000-12-04
US	50626947	R2R16WDEZV6NUT	0140095144	755563570	Arabian Sands: Revised Edition (Travel Library)	Books	5	98	100	N	N	A key to understanding the Arab world	Besides being a wonderful book, as other reviewers have remarked, 'Arabian Sands' is important reading for anyone who wants to understand the culture and history of the Arab countries of the Middle East and North  Africa.<br />The Bedu are, and always have been, a small fraction of the  Arabs; historically, they have been disliked, mistrusted and often hated by  the settled Arabs of the Middle East. In North Africa, the Berbers (a  completely different people, with non-Arabic languages) have sometimes been  confused with the Bedu.  The Bedu way of life is now nearly extinct;  Thesiger's book, which describes his travels with the Yamani Bedu of  Southern Arabia, is the only careful account of Bedu culture and Bedu  peoples I have ever come across. I know of no similarly illuminating study  of the Qaysi Bedu of Northern Arabia, not even the works of T. E.  Lawrence.<br />The historical importance of the Bedu in the Arab world is that  on several occasions from the 8th century to the 20th century, Bedu  tribesmen formed the core of armies that swept across the Middle East  and/or North Africa. Invading Bedu armies overthrew decadent regimes in  North Africa in the 13th century, and effectively destroyed Berber power on  the North African coast. Bedu formed the core of the Arab armies that  defeated the Turks in the First World War, and were the core of the army  which Ibn Saud created that turned him from being a refugee into being the  founder of Saudi Arabia as it is today.  How did the small number of people  who comprised the various Bedu tribes exercise such military power  throughout the Arab World? Read &quot;Arabian Sands&quot; to understand  this.	2000-02-01
US	50626947	R2GTTG4V73EUHQ	0226124444	481548569	Rebellion in the Backlands (Os Sertoes )	Books	5	63	63	N	N	A Masterpiece of History, Literature and Ethnology	This book is familiar to every educated Brazilian, but is not widely known in the USA; it should be.<br />It recounts a historical episode of 1896 and 1897. The government of the Republic of Brazil decided to suppress a  religious sect of perhaps 7000 members, some of them violent and lawless,  living in a remote rural area; the sect denied the legitimacy of the  Brazilian Republic. The ensuing campaign lasted ten months, involved the  deaths of hundreds of Brazilian army soldiers, and culminated in the  extermination of the sect; these days it might be considered  genocide.<br />The book's author, a formal professional Brazilian army  officer, covered the campaign for `O Estado do Sao Paulo', Brazil's  equivalent to the New York Times. He was horrified. So he wrote this book,  which has beeen compared to everything from Lawrence's `Seven Pillars of  Wisdom' to Dickens, Carlyle, and the prophet Ezekiel. Originally published  in 1902, it has been in print in Brazil ever since.<br />The book is tough  reading (and is no easier in Portuguese than in English; Samuel Putnam, the  translator, did a superb job.) So why should one read it?<br />For one thing,  it poses in the starkest possible terms a dilemma we still face from time  to time. Under what circumstances, and to what extent, is it ethical for an  elected representative government to coerce an organized group of its  citizens who sincerely deny the legitimacy of the government and the  laws?<br />And, it forces the reader to ask: What is history? How should it be  written? How do the facts of history depend on cultural assumptions?  Euclides da Cunha, like Thucydides, could find no suitable model for what  he wanted to write, so, like Thucydides, he invented his own. I think this  book could serve as fertile ground for a productive discussion among social  constructionists and their adversaries.<br />The thoughtful reader will also  ponder on what central message da Cunha was trying to convey; in later life  daCunha declined to clarify this. One possible answer is implied in `The  War of the End of the World', a novel drawn from da Cunha's book by the  Peruvian writer and politician Mario Vargas Llosa. But I have seen other  possible answers in thoughtful commentaries on da Cunha's book, so the  reader may wish to decide for himself or herself.<br />Finally, despite its  difficulty, the book is great literature. It accelerates steadily from a  seemingly interminable prolog in which nothing much seems to be happening  to a climactic ending so gripping and fast paced that it's hard to stop  reading. The only other author I'm familiar with who employs this technique  as effectively is Thomas Mann.	2000-01-08
US	50626947	R3VCKK27VLJOHR	0306809095	776060506	Red Victory: A History Of The Russian Civil War, 1918-1921	Books	3	47	52	N	N	A fine book, worth reading, but with some flaws	This book provides an excellent portrayal of the social, political, economic and military events in the parts of Russia that were at least nominally controlled by the Bolsheviks during the successive stages of the  Russian Civil War. This extensive description and discussion not only  illuminates the problems confronted and solved by Lenin and Trotsky, but  provides a basis for understanding the later course of events in the Soviet  Union.<br />I have two criticisms. First, the book does not describe nearly as  well the evolution, decisions and events of the 20-odd major anti-Bolshevik  groups (including army units from 14 foreign countries, and about a dozen  governments and/or armies set up by anti-Bolshevik Russians between 1918  and 1922.)  This lack is reflected in the bibliography, which omits various  important sources on the anti-Bolshevik movements.<br />Second, a criticism of  the publisher. Like most authors' manuscripts, this one could have  benefited from a heavy editorial blue pencil. If somebody as skillful and  determined as (say) Katherine White had been Lincoln's editor, the book  would have wound up covering all the same material more clearly in perhaps  2/3 as many words, would have eliminated a number of ambiguities and  seeming inconsistencies (and a couple of minor errors of fact), and would  have contained a far more useful index.	2000-01-03
US	50626947	R3JU74UAVPLQI8	0253333334	18486819	Critical Companion to the Russian Revolution 1914-1921	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Excellent but loosely coordinated essays	This book is a necessary addition to the library of anyone who already knows a fair amount about the Russian Revolution and Russian Civil War. It provides for the first time in one volume the advances in understanding  that result from availability of Soviet archives and close cooperation  between Western and Russian scholars. It also points out numerous topics on  which further research would be useful.<br />However, it has its flaws. Some  topics are covered redundantly in various essays, and not always the ones  one would expect; other topics get inadequate attention.  Makhno's  anarchist army in Ukraine, for example, is barely mentioned in Mark von  Hagen's essay on Ukraine, given an unsympathetic paragraph in Vladimir  Chernaiv's essay on anarchists, and a longer and somewhat more useful  paragraph in Orlando Figes' essay on peasant armies. Given that at times  Makhno's army was the most effective military force in Eastern Ukraine, and  that all other combatants in Ukraine had to worry about what Makhno was  going to do next, this is fragmented and incomplete treatment of an  important topic. As another example, the description of what happened in  Latvia between 1917 and 1920 is seriously incomplete; the bitter division  between pro-Bolshevik and Latvian nationalist elements is not brought out  clearly, nor is the intensity of the war that took place in Latvia, with  many Latvians, German troops (the von der Goltz Iron Division) and some  Russians (the Bermondt-Avalov force) on one side, and the Latvian  Bolsheviks and the Red Army on the other. One would not guess from this  book how disastrous this was for Latvia; by the end of the fighting, about  half the population of Latvia had fled the country or died.<br />Rather than  cite other such topics, I'll turn to the observation that most of the  bibliographies of these essays consist mainly of secondary rather than  primary sources. This is a drawback in a book which implicitly assumes that  the reader already has a general familiarity with the subject matter.  To  be sure, not all primary sources that presumably exist are accessible even  now; in particular, one suspects that somewhere in British government  archives are documents that would clear up various puzzling issues.  But  there is a conspicuous lack of references to the extensive German political  and military archives related to the Russian Revolution and Civil War.  Indeed, the German role is so incompletely treated that one suspects some  of the authors are, quite understanably, not familiar with this material.  But from 1917 through mid-1919 the Germans deliberately shifted their  weight to keep any of the forces contesting for power in Russia from  winning a clear victory; the Germans occupied here, distributed weapons  there, stirred up trouble over yonder, and generally tried to make sure  that revolution and civil war in Russia would not spread to Germany.  A  careful discussion of German policy and its effects on the course of events  in the first half of the Russian Civil War would be extremely helpful;  lacking that, a good bibliography of the primary sources in German would be  most useful.<br />Despite these criticisms, the book is a big step forward in  understanding what really happened and who did what to whom in the Russian  Revolution and Russian Civil War. I hope that a decade or two from now  there will be a second edition clarifying some of the topics not easily  understood from this first edition.	1999-12-30
US	50626947	R3IDJQFNN1BL46	0691008140	142488781	The Russian Revolution 1917-1918, Vol. 1: From the Overthrow of the Tsar to the Assumption of Power by the Bolsheviks	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Volume Two is essential reading on the Russian Civil War	There are numerous good books on the Russian Revolution of 1917, and this is one of them.  There are few good books on the 1918 - 1923 Civil War, and Chamberlin's book, originally published in 1934, is still essential reading  for anyone who wishes to know more than what's contained in Evan Mawdsley's  `The Russian Civil War'.  Chamberlin's book was chosen by the reviewers for  `Foreign Affairs' in 1997 as one of the most important books on  international relations published in the last 75 years; I agree.   Chamberlin's book goes in and out of print; copies are easy to find even  when it's out of print.<br />Chamberlin spent 1922 to 1934 as a foreign  correspondent in the USSR; he was later a lecturer at Yale and Harvard.  He  had access to people, places and documents which no later writer on the  Civil War had access to until about 1990. So his book is packed with  important information about aspects of the Russian Civil War that it's hard  to find discussed elsewhere.  And his statements of fact are almost all  accurate, which is more than one can say for many books on the subject.   The organization of the book leaves something to be desired; finding all  the places where a particular topic is discussed is difficult.  Hence, it's  a good idea to read Mawdsley's book before reading Chamberlin.  But  Chamberlin is still a `must read'.<br />Chamberlin set out to report facts.  Therefore he was severely criticized by left-wing reviewers in the 1930's  as being biased against the Soviet Union, and equally severely criticized  by right-wing reviewers and scholars of the 1950s and 1960s as having been  too sympathetic to the USSR. From the perspective of the 1990's this book  contains a remarkably accurate account of the facts.	1999-12-30
US	50626947	R5JSDVQ6FRW8S	0837183065	408800251	Civil War in Russia	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Episodic; a few interesting things.	Despite the title, this book, published in 1962, is not a history of the Russian Civil War. Rather, it is an account of six important episodes during the Civil War.  It has little interest for readers today, except for  the section on Makhno's uprising, army and government in the Eastern  Ukraine, which Footman describes in some detail, even including  photographs.  Footman's discussion is the only one I've seen that makes it  understandable how Makhno could start from nothing, raise an 80,000-man  army, fend off the various Ukrainian armies, Denikin's White Russian Army,  and the Red Army for years. An illuminating historical episode involving a  brilliant and ruthless guerrilla leader.<br />As for the rest of the book,  read something better.	1999-12-30
US	50626947	R3II6W5JVMBNZN	0049470256	922167851	The Russian Civil War	Books	5	49	49	N	Y	Best short history of Russian Civil War	Among the innumerable books and essays on the Russian Civil War, this is by far the best book to start with. It's reasonably short, very readable, has helpful maps, and an excellent bibliography. It's one of the few books  to present a coherent, unified account of an extremely complex and messy  historical episode.  Best of all, Mawdsley, who is (or at least was until  recently) a professional historian at the University of Glasgow, writes his  book without basing it on any particular political viewpoint, whereas the  great majority of books on the Russian Civil War have an axe to grind.  In  order to keep the book readable and reasonably short, Mawdsley omits a  great deal of important information; for the reader who wants to delve  further, Volume Two of William Henry Chamberlin's `The Russian Revolution,  1917 - 1921' originally published in 1934, is still the book to read next  after Mawdsley.<br />Unfortunately, Mawdsley's book is out of print and seems  to be hard to come by.  However, a determined book search can locate a  copy, or of course your local library can get a copy on interlibrary loan.   I wish it was back in print.	1999-12-29
