US	50629416	R3MYUCKD70TKPJ	0380792745	948903576	The Lust Lizard of Melancholy Cove	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Hilarious, but Just Shy of Unique	This is one weird book, but I really enjoyed it.  However, I honestly do not think I would have continued reading had it not been for the quirky, small-town ambience and personas so aptly sketched in the first few pages.  The book is quite vulgar in places, and my interest in over-sexed lizards is rather minimal.  Call me prude.  But I am a big fan of Small Town pastiche and imagery.  The flavor here hints of television's Northern Exposure, Twin Peaks, or perhaps the obscure film Come Back to the Five and Dime, Jimmy Dean, Jimmy Dean.  Yeah, weird. <br /> <br />Moore's way with characters almost seems prodigious, in a warped sort of way.  The book stews together a colorful gumbo consisting of a lackluster but loveable sheriff, an eccentric scientist who tracks the local rat population, a bionic bar maid, Skinner the Dog, a pharmacist with a fish fetish, a blues singer who \\"ain't got the blues on him\\", a former actress reliving her glory days as the star of foreign Xena-type films, one emotionally needy psychologist, and . . . a lizard of sorts. <br /> <br />When residents of Little Pine Cove begin to disappear, local sheriff and pot-head, Theophilius Crowe begins to think there might be a problem.  Slow to grasp the obvious, Crowe fails to realize that a lizard from the deep sea has come to shore, preyed upon the libido of non-antidepressant-taking residents, transformed himself into a trailer house, and commenced to eat people.  Well, duh.   <br /> <br />As Theophilius begins putting the pieces together, a suicide investigation turns into something more, dovetailing not only with the Lizard Chronicles but a tale of deceit and corruption within his own ranks.  With the help of the Xena-like crazy lady, a romantically involved biologist and psychologist, and priceless cameos by Skinner the Dog, Crowe helps put a stop to the ensuing mayhem.  But I'm not telling how. <br /> <br />This is a very funny read whose colorful characters, zany plot, and hilarious interludes deliver delightfully for those who are seeking escape . . . from whatever.  It is a shame, however, that the humor is so closely tied to vulgarity.  The vulgarity does not necessarily detract from the humor in absolute value terms, but it does merit deducting a star.  It is the base and common vulgarity which prevents this book from being truly unique.   <br />	2004-11-09
US	50629416	R2N5ZCKIOAQWRE	0140184937	588275666	Our Man in Havana: An Entertainment (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Farcical Tale of Cold War Espionage	It is the age of The Bomb, the Cold War, and the perceived threats of Soviets in Cuba.  Against this backdrop, Graham Greene presents his readers with a dark, yet farcical and even humorous tale of deception.  <br />The British Secret Service is looking for sources of military and political intelligence in Havana.  Mr. Wormold, a simple vacuum cleaner salesman finds himself at the center of it all.  He is recruited by the British Secret Service - in a bathroom - to develop a network of informants throughout Cuba.  They suspect his position as a salesman has him well connected with all levels of society.  After all, everyone needs a vacuum cleaner.  Mr. Wormold is offered generous compensation for his services, an offer which is hard to refuse given that he has a capricious young daughter with expensive tastes in things such as . . . ponies.  <br />Wormold's alleged network of informants, however, is the product of wishful thinking on the part of his handlers.  His friends marvel at his windfall in being asked to supply such secret information.  \\"You are a lucky man, Mr. Wormold,\\" says his friend Dr. Hasselbacher, \\"That information is always easy to give.  If it is secret enough, you alone know it.  All you need is a little imagination, Mr. Wormold.\\"  Imagine he does, and sets into motion a series of very real events based on a very mythical reality.	2003-10-24
US	50629416	RJMOXO83HECUV	0800790960	775483268	Blood Brothers	Books	3	31	34	N	N	A Case Study in Hope	It seems that much has been written about the Middle East in terms of religion, culture, history, economics, geopolitical significance, etc.  But it seems very little has been written about the region in terms of brotherhood.  The notion almost rankles upon first utterance, yet Elias Chacour, a Christian Palestinian approaches the topic from this rather unique perspective.  Having experienced the destruction of his home village of Biram by Israeli soldiers in 1951, one would expect him to have something to say.  While portraying injustices honestly, he refuses to draw harsh generalizations.  As Israeli soldiers or Zionist groups such as the Irgun destroy local villages, Chacour notes the sentiment of the native Jewish people in the area who were \\"shocked and disgusted\\" and who protested such activities via their religious leaders.  Although the book is not enthralling in terms of literary quality, it is compelling in terms of ideas.<br />Showing promise as a young student, Chacour is given the rare privilege of attending seminary in Paris and becomes the first Palestinian Arab to earn a degree from the Hebrew University in Jerusalem.  His educational exploits expose him not only to Jews with a genuine compassion for Palestinian suffering but to Christians with very little.  Returning to Palestine, he accepts a position as a priest in the small, embittered Palestinian town of Ibillin.  Ironically, it is through the malice of Ibillin's Christians that Chacour becomes intimately acquainted with his own propensity for violence.  Having reached his limit of exposure to interfamilial strife in the town, Chacour emotes, \\"Silent, still, I lay there, aware for the first time that I was capable of vicious, killing hatred.  Aware that all men everywhere - despite the thin, polite veneer of society - are capable of hideous violence against other men.\\"  At this point Chacour comes to more deeply understand the forgiveness offered by Jesus, who refused to hate while vicious hatred nailed him to a wooden cross.  Chacour begins to understand that stopping the cycle of violence starts with an individual decision to retaliate, not with violence, but with forgiveness, with kindness, and an abiding commitment to emulate Jesus' act of self-sacrifice in the name of reconciliation.  <br />Chacour notes that the land of Israel is not only promised to Abraham and his biological sons, but to those who had become Abraham's offspring by faith in Jesus, the promised savior of Jews and non-Jews alike.  By faith or genealogy, both Jews and Christians trace their heritage to Abraham.  \\"The Jews and the Palestinians are blood brothers,\\" his father reminded him, \\"We must never forget that.\\"	2003-07-19
US	50629416	R1DH1FSJ1FEV6T	0888995156	539751579	Camel Bells	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A Fairy Tale Work of Nonfiction	There is a lot to commend this book to a young audience who is just gaining an interest in, or being exposed to the world of international affairs, and to South Asia in particular.  Although it is not choc full of historical facts, it is graced with a very intimate glimpse into the world of two young men of modest means whose world was shattered by rebellion, conflict, and ultimately the Soviet invasion of 1979.  As the two lads travel from their village to Kabul in order to gain extra income for their families, they learn harsh urban realities and ultimately the human toll of political instability.  Bombs explode around them; jets drone over Kabul; the president is killed; and a new political day dawns before their eyes - a day which their youth has not yet prepared them to understand.  While one seeks refuge back in the simplicity of his village, the other joins a band of mujahedeen, fighting government troops who now appear to be operating with support of the Soviets.<br />The book is quite short and almost written in a fairy tale fashion.  For anyone who has traveled to Kabul, even in the 21st century, the descriptions remain strikingly current - as if it is indeed a place stuck in time.  Taxis and buses weave about on dangerous collision courses; dust pervades every aspect of daily life; vendors peddle their wares using scales with bits of metal or stones as counterweights.  The description of Chicken Street could have been written yesterday:  \\"Chicken street was exactly as Hadi had described it.  It was lined with shops where everything but chicken was sold.  There were rows and rows of leather bags, small hand-knotted rugs, woodwork, blue grass from Herat, embroidered suede clothes, colorful cloth bags and Afghan musical instruments.\\"  While this book will not provide much for an experienced student of Afghanistan or international affairs, it will likely succeed at personalizing a remote locale for a young audience which might otherwise find it difficult to imagine or to even perceive as real.	2003-07-11
US	50629416	RNBXXOMW5UEY4	0451205146	189891237	Black Hawk Down:: A Story of Modern War	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Real Life which Reads as Easily as Fiction	I think the biggest question which needs to be answered when reviewing Black Hawk Down is, \\"Why read the book if you've seen the movie?\\"  And to tell you the truth, it's a good question.  The movie does a wonderful job at portraying with accuracy the narrative which is so meticulously documented in print.  Those with only a passing interest in the subject matter will not shortchange themselves by skipping the book and proceeding directly to the movie.  It is not that the movie is better than the book or vice versa; both are done extremely well.  So what's the difference between the two?<br />The book is the meticulously researched minute-by-minute account of a battle gone horribly wrong.  October 3, 1993.  Army Rangers and Delta Force operators descend into the urban labyrinth of Mogadishu, Somalia.  Their task is to surprise a meeting of Habr Gidr clan members, led by warlord Mohamed Farrah Aidid, and to arrest two of his top lieutenants.  The mission turns sour when the initial entry is plagued by a series of mishaps; locals prove to be heavily armed; and Blackhawk helicopters begin taking hits from rocket propelled grenades.  Ultimately, a dangerous rescue operation is mounted.  The rest is history.  <br />Both the movie and the book document all of this, but two and a half hours of film leave a lot of details on the cutting room floor.  If you watched the movie exclusively, you would miss subtleties such as leadership tensions between Rangers and Delta Force operators, conflict history, the importance of specific equipment in combat operations, and background information on individual soldiers which brings added significance to their survival (or demise) in battle.  Most importantly, however, the book provides greater insight into the private thought lives of the soldiers, their interpersonal relationships, and the characteristics each one of them brought to an extraordinarily difficult situation.  These details have also been document through personal interviews, but the thought life and the depth of unspoken emotion are notoriously difficult to capture on film.  First I read the book; then I saw the film.  You can't go wrong either way, as both will leave you asking difficult questions.  But if you're keen on having more answers, read the book.	2003-07-11
US	50629416	R285Y6QBUGEXVS	0345417623	786105285	Timeline	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Somewhat Predictable but a Good Escapist Read	It is easy to get the impression that Michael Crichton could write no sort of fiction that did not require him to learn something new, lest he be bored out of his wits.  Timeline seems to offer further support of this statement.  Having delved into the world of prehistoric lizards, aeronautical engineering, and epidemiology among other things, he has here taken on the challenges of cutting edge quantum physics and explored the futuristic potential for existence in parallel renditions of time and space.  Loosely stated, this is a book about time travel.<BR> <BR>Having spent three months in Jordan and Iraq during the recent war, I picked up this book in the Amsterdam airport to nourish an escapist appetite which had been evolving for a couple of months.  It did not disappoint.  Chrichton's ability to pull a reader deep into the text of his pages has not changed, and I was willingly ensnared.  To put it in layman's terms (which Crichton does), International Technology Corporation (ITC) has figured out a way to fax people back in time.  In so doing, they have gained a deeper understanding of the historical record, an ability to accurately reconstitute archaeological sites in the present, and to exploit such sites for profit.  One major problem, however, is that the technology has not yet been perfected.  And as much as a blurry faxed document may pose limited problems in modern times, a poorly faxed human poses even greater problems for society past and present, for the historical record, and for the physical well-being of the person proper.<br />While exploring the site of a medieval castle in southern France, a band of Yale archaeologists discovers that their benefactor (ITC) knows more about the site than they do.  Perceiving hints of betrayal and major conflicts of interest, they embark upon a journey to uncover the real story behind ITC and are subsequently pulled into the imperfect world of quantum time-space technology.  Not only do they find themselves back at their archaeological site during the turning point of its medieval existence but faced with the challenge of assimilating into a society 700 years older and several thousand miles removed from their own.  Crichton brings the reader alongside as he imagines what it must be like for modern man to adapt to medieval times, hostile enemies, linguistic differences, and only the modest likelihood of being able to return to the present.<br />This is not a blockbuster, but it is an interesting read.  Timeline will entertain, and avid readers will devour it in a matter of days or less.  Because Chrichton has poured so much of himself and so many research hours into it, the plot remains interesting as it divulges elements of fantasy that only deep imagining and research can produce.  However, the story sports some elements of predictability which can put off a reader more demanding of suspense.  Characters supernaturally escape from impossible situations time and again for the same reason that the Lone Ranger never dies at the end of an episode.  Personality selection takes on a familiar face, including a natural born leader, a foolish spoiler, a latent romance, and a megalomaniacal power jockey.  Not to say that any of this is intrinsically bad, but in terms of narrative framework, many readers have seen it before.  However, familiarity can also lend a sense of comfort, which can enhance the potential for entertainment.  This book does entertain, but paying full cover price might not be the best use of your time and space.	2003-06-29
US	50629416	RXMGQTN19L3NP	0394551419	25579300	A Perfect Spy	Books	3	51	58	N	N	The End Before the Beginning	It seems that nary a used book sale is complete without a copy of A Perfect Spy holding court on crowded shelves with works of obscure fiction.  Having often come across it during my own browsing, I finally picked up a copy (for free) to see if I had been missing out.  I intend no harm with the statement, but the book was worth the price.  I now see a measure of reason behind the myriad discarded copies.<br />One might call this work a genre-bender as it is less a work of fictive espionage than it is a psychological profile of the protagonist, Magnus Pym.  It is, at its core, an extended work in character development.  At the beginning of the novel, spy Pym takes up residence in a seaside home to write his memoirs, and his disappearance causes a flurry of panic within the American and British intelligence communities.  The grand majority of \\"the action\\" has already taken place, however, and is cryptically recounted in hindsight as Pym explores the influence of his father's business shenanigans upon his own character, chosen vocation, and penchant for deception.  His style is so cryptic at times, and clarification from le Carre so wanting, that the reader can easily be left behind searching for clues as to time and context.  It is a task to keep one's bearings as the narrative often shifts from past to present with little warning, while minor characters not seen for chapters surface suddenly with little hint as to where they were last seen.  The name Wentworth, for example, surfaces within the first 100 pages then largely disappears for the rest of the novel until assuming a major role at the very end.  There are some 150 to 160 major and minor characters in this book, some of which appear in both Pym's reminiscing and in the narrative present.  The story is an unusual one as Pym's reminiscing seems to be preparing the reader for a more dynamic present.  But by the time the reminiscing and the present intersect, the novel has ended.<br />John le Carre is a gifted writer and story teller, but it seems this story has proven too difficult even for even him to tell, at least in the way he has chosen to tell it.  A Perfect Spy is not a poorly written book, but it can be a bewildering one -- and one which seems to end just as it is getting started.	2003-02-16
US	50629416	R3RJPGY6BVQWC8	0140436111	596871917	The Pickwick Papers (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A Jovial Lighthearted Romp	Pickwick Papers is a wonderful book, and no doubt much has been written about it in academic and literary circles.  But from a layman's perspective, it is simply a fun read.  One would almost think it the work of a great master approaching the end of a career, consciously deciding to lay down the heartache of Great Expectations or the martyrdom of A Tale of Two Cities to take a jovial and whimsical jaunt through the English language and the realm of imagination.  Yet the bumbling and somehow delightful misadventures of the Pickwickians fall at the beginning of Dickens' career.  Comic relief is offered well before Hard Times sets in.<br />Take an independently wealthy, magnanimous old fellow and surround him with a group of close friends.  Send them together on a journey of desire to explore the world about them, meet new people, and experience the fullness of life, and you essentially have the plot of Pickwick Papers.  The plethora of characters Dickens introduces along the way add considerable color to the narrative, not only because they come from such a vast array of backgrounds, but because they themselves are colorful in their own right:<br />The first and most obvious example might be that of Mr. Alfred Jingle, the loquacious vagabond rapscallion who rescues the Pickwickians from an altercation with a feisty coach driver.  One of Mr. Pickwicks cohorts, Mr. Snodgrass, receives a blow to the eye during the incident, after which Mr. Jingle is pleased to suggest the most efficacious remedies:  \\"Glasses round-brandy and water, hot and strong, and sweet, and plenty-eye damaged, sir?  Waiter!  Raw beef-steak for the gentleman's eye-nothing like raw beef-steak for a bruise, sir; cold lamp-post very good, but lamp-post inconvenient-damned odd, standing in the open street half an hour with your eye against a lamp-post-eh-very good-ha!  ha!\\"  While Pickwick reads the legend of Prince Bladud by candlelight, we find this description of King Hudibras: \\"A great many centuries since, there flourished, in great state, the famous and renowned Lud Hudibras, king of Britain.  He was a mighty monarch.  The earth shook when he walked-he was so very stout.  His people basked in the light of his countenance-it was so red and glowing.  He was, indeed, every inch a king.  And there were a good many inches of him too, for although he was not very tall, he was a remarkable size round, and the inches that he wanted in height he made up in circumference.\\"  The young surgeon, Benjamin Allen, is described as \\"a coarse, stout, thick-set young man, with black hair cut rather short and a white face cut rather long [...]  He presented altogether, rather a mildewy appearance, and emitted a fragrant odour of full-flavoured Cubas.\\"  Dickens notes that the casual visitor to the Insolvent Court \\"might suppose this place to be a temple dedicated to the Genius of Seediness\\" and whose vapors are \\"like those of a fungus pit.\\"  Seated in this luxuriant ambience, we find an attorney, Mr. Solomon Pell, who \\"was a fat, flabby pale man, in a surtout which looked green one minute and brown the next, with a velvet collar of the same chameleon tints.  His forehead was narrow, his face wide, his head large, and his nose all on one side, as if Nature, indignant with the propensities she observed in him in his birth, had given it an angry tweak which it had never recovered.\\"  A final sample from a list of worthy characters too long to mention might be Mr. Smangle, the boisterous whiskered man whom Pickwick encounters in debtors prison:  \\"This last man was an admirable specimen of a class of gentry which never can be seen in full perfection but in such places; they may be met with, in an imperfect state, occasionally about the stable-yards and public-houses; but they never attain their full bloom except in these hot-beds, which would almost seem to be considerately provided by the legislature for the sole purpose of rearing them [...]  There was a rakish vagabond smartness anda kind of boastful rascality about the whole man that was worth a mine of gold.\\"    <br />The book itself is a goldmine full of textures, personas, venues, and idiosyncrasies of a bygone age.  These are delight to behold, as the reader is thus invited to enjoy experience and descriptive beauty for their own sakes.  Plot largely takes a backseat to the development of relationships, which can be seen as a myriad of subplots contributing to a never-ending story.  Numerous vignettes which are incidental to the narrative add another level of richness, and it seems clear that Dickens offers them for an enjoyment all their own.  There is something of \\"l'art pour l'art\\" throughout the whole work which expresses a love of language and a love of human nature.  As Dickens might have summed it up, \\"All this was very snug and pleasant.\\"	2002-11-10
US	50629416	R35H7Z8H4G4UH6	0195121791	36639274	A History of Russia	Books	4	56	57	N	N	A Thorough, No-Frills Text	Do not expect gripping dramatic prose from this detailed history.  This is an adequate text and reference but not likely suited for the information-seeking, recreational reader.  Despite studying international relations for several years, my knowledge of Russian history exhibited glaring weaknesses.  Riasanovsky's work continued to appear as I researched texts with which to fortify my deficiencies.  All indications show it to be a classic work of Russian history, used in university courses for decades, and perhaps the most detailed one-volume work suited for a general audience.  I found \\"A History of Russia\\" (Sixth Edition) to be informative, detailed, and faithfully updated (now encapsulating the fall of the Soviet Union and Russia under Yeltsin).  Although a solid text, it is a difficult tome to conquer cover-to-cover as it fails to capture the literary senses of the reader.<br />Riasanovsky takes the reader mechanically through the development of the Russian state.  He begins with the geopolitical landscape as it existed prior to the Russians then examines in detail the flowering of Kiev, the appanage system, and the Muscovite, imperialist, revolutionary, and Soviet eras.  Riasanovsky's painstaking attention to detail and thorough familiarity with other historiographies provide the reader with a comprehensive evolutionary picture.  For example, his illustration of the early appanage system and the continuation of class disparities well into the 20th century shed ample light on the fertile ground into which Vladimir Lenin was able to sow the communist theories of Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels.  His verbal portraits of leaders such as Ivan the Terrible and Catherine the Great give meaningful context to the power struggles and political imbroglios which characterized specific reigns.  The addenda which have accompanied each new edition are less detailed and necessarily superficial.  They provide sufficient material to update the reader on Russia's current state ofaffairs but beg for additional research by the more serious student.	2002-08-15
US	50629416	RBJ2XYMO4OE73	0310209307	938771460	The Case for Christ:  A Journalist's Personal Investigation of the Evidence for Jesus	Books	4	14	17	N	N	An Examination of Objections Written for the General Public	You will not be reading a volume of academic writing from an established scholar in \\"The Case for Christ.\\"  Strobel did not intend it that way.  This is the sort of book you would pass to a neighbor over the garden fence or during coffee.  It is not written for hardened skeptics, intellectual wizards, or those seeking finite logical proofs for a supreme being which is proposed to be neither finite nor confined by logic.  Heavier works do exist.  Strobel cites many of them and provides many supplemental references.  At times Strobel may appear too easily convinced by the arguments of the scholars he interviews.  If your searing intellect is not satisfied with this work (which it should not be, in my opinion) satisfy it to the greatest extent possible elsewhere.  Take on the weightier tomes from other qualified thinkers, Christian and otherwise, and continue the pursuit.  Weigh the evidence yourself; be intellectually honest; and ask God - if he is in fact real - to make his reality obvious to you.  Strobel himself encourages this (365).  Otherwise, take Strobel's work for what it is:  an easy-going, sincere treatment of some of the most common objections to the plausibility of Christianity, of God in the flesh in the person of Jesus, taking on the evil in the heart of humankind that humankind might be reunited with God.  Among other issues, Strobel addresses the historicity of Jesus, fulfillment of messianic prophesies, his claims to deity, the reliability of Biblical documents, and the evidence for resurrection and miracles.  He examines various objections including the problem of hell, pain, and evil, Biblical contradictions, human error, witness hallucination, Jesus' mental stability, and the possibility of legendary development.  For some, this will clear up several objections; for others it will merely be a starting point.	2002-03-29
US	50629416	R3L5D92PC13DTC	0553272535	88900905	Night	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Dark.  Cold.  Real.	\\"Night\\" traces the life of a young boy from a quiet life in a small Rumanian town through the brutality of Nazi forced labor, ghetto life, deportation, separation from family, concentration camp life, symbiotic existence with an aging and weakening father, death marches, and the end to the physical horrors -- to which the word \\"liberation\\" can only marginally apply.  It is also a journey into Elie Wiesel's heart, into the propensity for good and evil within all of us.  The tale is a short but riveting one, indeed shrouded in the darkness of night and the depths of falling snow.  You may well complete it in only a day or two of reading.  My own trip to Birkenau in 2002 in the midst of winter captured only the cold and desolation, but not the guns, the trains, the groans, nor the Night which Wiesel describes.  I do not believe we should confuse voyeurism with a desire for empathy, and a desire for empathy is perhaps one of the more constructive motivations for reading about the Holocaust.  This work escorts the reader down a short, intense, and painful corridor into the nadir of Wiesel's own despair, into the void of a faith shattered, and into the evil propensities characteristic of the human kind since times immemorial.  Yet it gracefully circumvents any penchant for voyeurism, compromising no facet of the horrific tale but in no way exploiting it for the much baser goal of producing a compelling narrative.  This is Elie Wiesel's heart on paper.  Probably all of our hearts on paper.	2002-03-29
US	50629416	R2YZTYK90GW70M	0425158632	506174805	Executive Orders (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Executive Eye-Opener	Whatever one might think of Clancy's writing, this book's political and sociological significance has grown considerably since September 11, and one cannot help but wonder if the attacks somehow found inspiration in these pages.  A quote from the fictional terrorist Ali Badrayn on page 406 is sadly ironic, \\"It's not difficult, gathering information in the modern age.  The American media publishes so much, and it can all be easily accessed now.\\"  Clancy's book itself could be considered part of that easily accessed media which the fictional Badrayn exploited.  Published in 1997, it explores the theme of simultaneous terrorist attacks on the United States, not unlike what the country witnessed in 2001.  Although the parallels may not be exact, it does not require a great leap of faith to conclude that real-life architects of synchronized terror may have found some inspiration here.  <br />A jumbo jet is purposely crashed into the United States Capitol building. Shortly thereafter, terrorists release a potent strain of the Ebola virus in several major cities.  Having identified the culprits, America declares war on the attackers.  The United States' military attention is diverted overseas while additional threats plague the country and its leadership.  Other similarities, many dealing with the aftermath, are more predictable but all too familiar.  Foreign dignitaries arrive to express condolences, and services are held at the National Cathedral.  \\"Banks and financial markets were closed, as were schools and many businesses\\" (96). Many Americans let the new president know he is in their prayers despite the fact that his mandate to rule has been brought into question by a bizarre detour of the electoral process.  Echoing George W. Bush after the attacks, President Jack Ryan speaks these words to television reporters:  \\"America is still America\\" (70) and \\"We have buried our dead. We will mourn their losses for a long time to come.  But our country lives, and the friends we lost on that horrible night would have it no other way  Our economy has taken a nasty shock, but survived, and is still the strongest in the world.  This is still America.  We are still Americans, and our future starts with every new day\\" (255).  On the Muslim question he comments, \\"We must understand that religion has nothing at all to do with these inhuman acts  Islam is not the enemy of our country or any other  I know that Islam, like Christianity and Judaism, teaches us about a God of love and mercy -- and justice\\" (1248).  Washington National airport remains closed for an extended period of time.  Other flights into DC airports are instructed to avoid a 20-mile radius centered on the White House.  Flights ignoring these instructions and warnings would be challenged by fighter jets (145).  The fictional ground zero is almost too realistic: \\"The real trick was coordinating the actions of the cranes, which dipped into the crater--that's how it looked--like a quartet of giraffes drinking from the same water hole, never quite banging together due to the skill of the operators\\" (78).  <br />While I am not normally a Clancy fan, this book earns an extra star for its remarkable foresight -- so much foresight that it raises new questions about responsible freedom of press and speech.  To be fair, few could have predicted that a book published in 1997 would so closely foreshadow events four years later.  As usual, the majority of Clancy's characters are endowed with high levels of testosterone and cowboy mentalities.  His effort to include women in responsible roles, while admirable, is also obvious.  One can also reasonably assume that Clancy is occupying the bully pulpit through President Ryan, speaking his own political views with common-man grit and gumption (994).  Nonetheless, the book remains a worthwhile read.  It is engrossing, thoughtfully constructed, and eye-opening.  Clancy continues to entertain while educating the public on issues of national security which may otherwise go unnoticed.  Good on him.	2002-02-07
US	50629416	R34YWDQ9Q974OW	0864426550	283467702	Lonely Planet Poland (3rd ed)	Books	5	30	30	N	N	Even the Poles were Impressed	This book was my primary guide through Poland in January 2002 and was wonderfully up to the task.  My personal bias tends to be in favor of Lonely Planet's level of detail and thorough research, but even my long-time Polish friends were amazed at its accuracy, comprehensiveness, and \\"insider information\\".  When at a loss for places to eat in Warsaw or Krakow, this book provided a wealth of suggestions close to wherever we were at the moment.  Some eating establishments and places of interest my friends had forgotten, but they later identified them as \\"must sees\\" once the guide brought them back to memory.  One such restaurant was found in the back of a courtyard in Krakow which catered mainly to locals but served some of the most hearty, wonderful food I have had in some time.  Finding housing in smaller Polish towns in winter can sometimes be a challenge, but I still found plenty of options in this guide.  Thanks to this book, I ended up with a cozy private room with bath in the archdiocese of Lublin for $8 a night.  Prices in the guide were still accurate and helped me gauge whether or not I was being charged the \\"tourist fare\\".  Much of my travel involved visiting former concentration camps, and I found plenty of information here to guide me to my destinations.  However, things can and have changed in the few years since the publication date (e.g. the Treblinka memorial is no longer accessible by bus from Malkinia).  The good news is that Lonely Planet posts updates to their guide books on their website which you can print out and stick in your book.  I submitted my own updates to them via email.  You may well be able to get around Poland's major destinations sufficiently well with Lonely Planet's guide to Eastern Europe, but for longer jaunts through the country, you'll probably want this one with you.	2002-01-30
US	50629416	R1H2R3ICN4M6RY	0231109644	838383895	Holocaust Journey	Books	5	20	20	N	N	A Rich Vitamin Supplement	Although reading Martin Gilbert's book will do no harm if you are just beginning to study the Holocaust, it will certainly be more difficult to appreciate. What you are buying in this book is a detailed travel journal, not meat-and-potatoes Holocaust history. It is a rich vitamin supplement of insights and prepared readings delivered during a 1996 excursion which Gilbert and his students took to former sites of Jewish deportation, genocide, and Nazi occupation. Roughly outlined, the journey starts in London and passes through Brussels, Berlin, Theresienstadt, Prague, Auschwitz, Krakow, Belzec, Sobibor, Lublin, Majdanek, Treblinka, Warsaw, and Chelmno. The travel entries, while thoughtful and considered, do not lack spontaneity and can even be startlingly raw. <br />While this book has much to offer, how to most benefit from it is something of a conundrum. It is likely best to refer to \\"Holocaust Journey\\" after having read about or visited a particular site mentioned in the travelogue. Basic background and history should be gotten elsewhere, as what Gilbert largely documents here are impressions, feelings, and observations. Reading Gilbert prior to confronting these geographic locales ourselves, either in person or via the printed word, may well taint our own first impressions and rob us of a more pristine emotional state from which to experience our own responses. My now-dilapidated hardcover copy of \\"Holocaust Journey\\" traveled with me to the Jewish quarters of Warsaw, Lublin, and Krakow, and to the concentration camps and memorials of Auschwitz-Birkenau, Majdanek, and Treblinka in early 2002. When I read Gilbert's book prior to my arrival at a site, I found myself wanting to experience what Gilbert experienced, as impossible as that clearly is. Our responses to the Holocaust are as different as the individual stories which comprise it. On the other hand, having traveled alone much of the way, I found this book a comforting companion and empathetic sounding board after I had visited a site, sometimes even expressing my own feelings, thoughts, questions, or fears. <br />The readings and brief background notes which Gilbert supplies at each location are extremely well researched, relevant, and poignant. While there are too many to mention in a review, I will remark that those providing insight into the mind and heart of educator and orphanage director Janusz Korczack proved particularly moving. Rather than allow them to meet their fate alone, Korczack chose to be deported along with his orphans to the extermination camp at Treblinka. \\"Holocaust Journey\\" directed me to Korczack's memorial stone at Treblinka and the courtyard of the still-present orphanage in Warsaw. For me, a handful of words in Korzac's diary aptly captured the grotesquely distorted existence under Nazi rule. For Korzac daily life had become \\"a stock exchange quoting the weight of conscience.\\"	2002-01-20
US	50629416	R1VTCLDUHYHS9Z	0300089023	681039726	Taliban: Militant Islam, Oil and Fundamentalism in Central Asia	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Encyclopedic in Scope and Style	Despite the intriguing cover image and enormous sales following September 11, I genuinely wonder how many copies of this book have since been read cover to cover.  The book is wonderful, but it is not likely to appeal to the masses.  A few page turns reveal that this is by no means a quick or romanticized read.  It will, however, be of enormous benefit to anyone with a deep hunger for concrete knowledge about the Taliban and its place within Central Asian history and political economy.  Decades before the Taliban stepped into the international spotlight, Ahmed Rashid was reporting on Afghanistan and acquiring the wealth of knowledge he meticulously documents here.  While giving sufficient contextual history, Rashid begins his modern discourse from the logical starting point:  the Russian withdrawal from Afghanistan in 1989 and the subsequent collapse of the Soviet Union.  The resultant political void in Afghanistan was quickly filled by warring factions of various ideologies and ethnicities (Pashtun, Tajik, and Uzbek, etc.), each of which Rashid describes in detail.  Many refugees from the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan remained in Pakistan, deriving their beliefs and education from religious schools or &quot;madrassas&quot;.  According to Rashid, their &quot;simple belief in a messianic, puritan Islam which had been drummed into them by simple village mullahs was the only prop they could hold on to and which gave their lives some meaning&quot; (32).  These &quot;taliban&quot; or &quot;students&quot;, along with others who had fought the Soviets, also vied for their share in the power vacuum, intending to restore order to their country by a virtue of a stringent interpretation and imposition of Islamic law.  The role of the international community in fostering the evolution of the Taliban cannot be ignored, and Rashid paints this pastiche of shifting alliances with clarity and skill.  He documents Pakistan's support for the Taliban as a faction which was able to provide a measure of political stability in Afghanistan, thereby ensuring Pakistan's continued access to valuable trade routes and training camps for Kashmiri militants.  Likewise, he notes Saudi Arabia's support of the Taliban as fellow Sunni Muslims, and the Clinton administration's initial support &quot;as they were in line with Washington's anti-Iran policy&quot; (46).  Support shifted quickly, however, and the United States found itself tacitly siding with former enemies.  Russia feared losing influence in the Central Asian republics to Taliban expansion and militancy; the Central Asian republics feared war seeping across their borders; and predominately Shiite Iran remained wary of Sunni Pashtun fundamentalism and took a defensive stance.  Eventually, US support also waned in response to human rights abuses, the Taliban's treatment of women, and its refusal to extradite Osama bin Laden for embassy bombings in Kenya and Tanzania.  Rashid does a fine job of exposing the political and economic motives of a number of countries, which greatly helps today's reader understand how the United States has managed to garner otherwise unlikely support in its War on Terrorism.  Who will have access to Central Asian oil, natural gas, and transit routes appears to be a question left unresolved by ongoing hostilities in the region.  Rashid is clearly aware of the difficulties faced in &quot;turning a multi-ethnic tribal society into a modern state&quot; (12).  However, should a stable coalition government emerge in the wake of the present war, Afghanistan may well become a battleground of the economic sort, as petroleum investors compete for vital pipeline routes into South Asia and the Arabian Sea.  This book will equip the reader to follow this new &quot;Great Game&quot; by defining the key players, issues, and obstacles.  I reluctantly deduct one point for the somewhat dry (yet informative) reading, fully realizing that Charles Dickens himself may have done no better with abook of this nature.	2001-12-18
US	50629416	R3L9945QY2BHYP	0310214394	35937449	Loving God	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A Solid Dose of Encouragement	If your desire is to be encouraged, to walk more closely with Christ, to better love God and others, or to feast your mind on that which is true and honorable, you will benefit from this book.  It is hard to be any more concrete.  This is not a how-to manual or a theological study.  It reads more like the product of Colson's thinking and meditating upon what it means to live the Christian life, to have intimacy with Christ, and how that life is manifested on a daily basis in our interactions with others.  His anecdotes are colorful, touching, and instructive.  They are examples of how others have come face to face with their innate sinfulness, been transformed by God's love, and gone on to share His love with others.  A verse which could easily tie this entire book together might be John 14:21, where Jesus says, &quot;He who has My commandments and keeps them is the one who loves Me; and he who loves Me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him and will disclose Myself to him.&quot;  How do we keep God's commandments, and what does it mean to be a witness of God's love to others?  After visiting a friend diagnosed with a terminal illness recently, this quote from Colson's book remained with me:  &quot;Our presence in a place of need is more powerful than a thousand sermons.  Being there is our witness.&quot;	2001-12-17
US	50629416	R29I5W8EKHC80K	0864426860	318727899	Lonely Planet Iceland, Greenland & the Faroe Islands	Books	4	9	10	N	N	As solid as can be expected for unusual destinations	Despite the availability of internet resources, I think a printed guidebook is particularly helpful for unusual destinations such as these because it puts the hard-to-find information in one place under your fingertips.  I used the previous edition of this book to take a week long trip to Greenland in January 2001.  Even though a winter excursion to the Arctic is not a common vacation plan, this book told me how much sunlight to expect at what latitudes, estimated prices for air travel between towns, what sort of unpredictability to expect in the Arctic, whether or not it was feasible to do coastal travel by boat in the winter, the best times to see the aurora borealis, and the extent to which dog sleds are used as a 'normal' form of transportation, just to name a few.  Of course it also provided detailed descriptions of towns which helped me choose my final destination.  While providing the standard Lonely Planet maps, listings of places to stay, currency exchange options, restaurants, and whatnot, this particular guide also provides a healthy dose of reality.  It makes clear that some places are quite difficult to visit unless you are well financed, and yet it also provides starting points for the extremely determined.  Contrary to previous criticism, the previous edition (published in 1997) does in fact acknowledge the existence of the internet, providing email addresses and websites for further information.  I can only imagine that this updated version is more complete.  To quickly address the negative feedback that the guide is &quot;outdated&quot;, please note the publication date of May 2001.  That is quite current for any guide book.  I do not think this book or say, &quot;Lonely Planet : Antarctica&quot; should be compared to the other Lonely Planet guides for the simple reason that the locales are some of the most remote on our planet with limited accessibility and unpredictable weather patterns.  It's not nearly as easy for a writer or photographer to hopa jet to the Arctic as it is to Europe or Latin America.  And once the person is there, he or she does not always have the luxury of roads or regular plane service to travel to the next destination.  A person could end up waiting a week in northern Canada (as I did) to hop a plane to the next town on the itinerary.  Furthermore, these are &quot;niche&quot; guidebooks which appeal to a very limited percentage of travelers.  For economic reasons, they are not as likely to be frequently updated because the readership is not as substantial.  My only criticism is as follows:  because Iceland, Greenland, and the Faroe Islands are fairly remote destinations, I think there should be a deeper emphasis on what activities are available upon arrival, other than hiking, sightseeing, or organized tours.  While the natural wonder of the area is amazing, the local cultures have just as much to offer.  Furthermore, the Arctic can be a lonely place, even when you have traveling companions.  Someone spending a few weeks in these northern wonderlands could benefit from more advice on how to best interact with the locals who spend their lives there.	2001-11-28
US	50629416	R3ASHG90UULC8W	0385413726	244095611	From Beirut to Jerusalem	Books	5	29	35	N	N	For the student of Middle Eastern affairs: a must read	The term &quot;must read&quot; gets bandied about too easily, but for the student of the Middle East or of international relations in general, this book probably qualifies.  I began reading &quot;From Beirut to Jerusalem&quot; as a high school senior, just after returning from overseas as an exchange student during the Persian Gulf crisis.  Seeing that I was eager to broaden my understanding of Middle Eastern affairs, a friend recommended this book to me.  Thanks to the pains Friedman took in writing the introduction, there is no need to be intimidated by the subject matter.  With utmost patience, clarity, and simplicity, he lays out the history of Zionism, the formation of the Jewish state, the Arab-Israeli wars, the roots of the Lebanese civil war, and even the differences between Shi'ite and Sunni Muslims, Marionite Christians, and the Druse.  If a student reads no other part of the book, he or she ought to at least read and re-read the introduction to gain some historical perspective on this ongoing conflict, and to be able to give context to current events in the region.  Friedman reports from credentialed experience, having served as the New York Times Bureau chief in both Beirut and Jerusalem during some of the choppiest years of the 1980's.  His anecdotes and travel notes are fascinating, and his dry wit and contemplative perspective are never far from his words.  His writing style is lucid, thoughtful, and easy to read.  While being informative and factual, this book never ceases being interesting.  Even as a high school student prone to distraction, this book had me hooked.  Years later I still refer back to it and am thankful to have read it.	2001-10-22
US	50629416	R1U2WI1QOJR4B7	080106192X	824391862	Bright Days, Dark Nights: With Charles Spurgeon in Triumph over Emotional Pain	Books	4	17	17	N	N	A very rich, worthwhile read	A close friend of mine who has wrestled with depression for some time confided to me how deeply this book had touched his life.  Indeed, while every page reflected in some measure the life of my friend, each page also touched on issues common to us all.  What a comfort it is to know that so many in the body of Christ have traveled before us, traversed the same valleys, felt the same anxieties, trusted in the same God, and found Him to be absolutely true to His promises.  Spurgeon himself, regarded by so many as one of the greatest preachers having lived, speaks with such frankness about his own internal and emotional struggles that he is likely strikes a common chord with all of us.  Spurgeon's writing is uncommonly rich and filled with keen observations, anecdotes, and gems of wisdom based on the truth of Scripture.  In one such anecdote, Spurgeon comments on the nature of death for the Christian as simply a transition to a more glorious life hereafter:  &quot;At Stratford-on-Bow,&quot; Spurgeon notes, &quot;in the days of Queen Mary, there was once a stake erected for the burning of two martyrs, one of them a lame man, the other a blind man.  Just when the fire was lit, the lame man hurled away his staff, and turning round said to the blind man, 'Courage, brother, this fire will cure us both.'&quot;  Although this book is composed almost exclusively of Spurgeon's writings and sermons, it does contain a modest amount of Skoglund's observations as well.  In fact it seems that Skoglund has so saturated herself with the writings of Spurgeon that the styles of the two are at times nearly indistinguishable.  Perhaps because of the denseness of Spurgeon's writings, this book can be slow going at times.  However, as a relative newcomer to Spurgeon, I have the sense that Skoglund has done a wonderful job of piecing together many of Spurgeon's writings on emotional struggle and the encouragement which is to be found in Christ.	2001-10-20
US	50629416	RW7QOSIVAI0X9	0785271627	269066490	Renewing Your Spiritual Passion (The Gordon Macdonald Bestseller Series)	Books	2	5	8	N	N	Raises questions	Speaking clearly from experience, and perhaps even from a wearied condition, Gordon MacDonald does a thorough job of identifying various kinds of habits, individuals, attitudes, and situations which are prone to drain us of spiritual passion, or quite likely of any passion whatsoever.  In fact he does so thorough a job that the men in my Bible study class began to question whether the book would do much more than define the problem.  MacDonald does offer some wise counsel after a clear transition from &quot;problem&quot; to &quot;solution&quot; is made on page 119:  &quot;After all of this discussion about weariness and passionlessness, is there anything positive to say?  Are there principles and truths that, when properly applied, permit one to put the inner, and even the outer, life back into form in much the same way as we realign the pool balls at the beginning of a game?&quot;  At this point the book does begin to outline the sorts of practices and relationships that help a person recharge.  Reservations expressed in class had to do with labeling people as &quot;the very draining people&quot;, &quot;the very important people&quot;, &quot;the very nice people&quot;, etc. and advocating the need to recognize people as such so we can appropriately tailor our responses.  Students questioned the wisdom here and doubted whether the &quot;normal Christian life&quot; is truly intended to always exhibit passion.  Several cited examples of people like Paul, Elijah, Job, Jonah, etc. who seemed utterly despondent at times.  Another reservation had to do with the relative lack of scripture references as the foundation for the specific points being made and for the book as a whole.  Some of MacDonald's other works come highly recommended and may be better starting points for those who are not familiar with his writing.	2001-10-12
US	50629416	R16OL05ACBZPHX	067178658X	531622442	The FBI: Inside the World's Most Powerful Law Enforcement Agency	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Truthful Tabloid	Prior to reading this book, you may want to establish your own idea of what it means to be &quot;inside the world's most powerful law enforcement agency.&quot; Does this mean having a privileged view into the FBI's remarkable crime fighting facilities and techniques, or does this mean knowing some of the sordid details of its bureaucratic infighting, botched operations, and office gossip? This book provides a bit of both, and perhaps leans more heavily toward the latter. Although Kessler does a good job of documenting some of the operational aspects of the FBI, he has given this book something of a tabloid feel, focusing more on the people and the myths than did his book &quot;Inside the CIA&quot;. Given the misconduct Kessler discovered while writing the book, and the comparative openness with which FBI (as opposed to CIA) employees can speak to the press, a greater focus on personas and storytelling does seem natural. Whether that focus is particularly useful in terms of understanding the day-to-day operations of the Bureau is doubtful, which is why you should know what you want by letting an author take you &quot;inside&quot; the FBI. Much of the latter portion of the book is devoted to a detailed account of misconduct under former FBI Director William Sessions. The account is painful to read, both because the details and character of those involved are so outrageous, and because Kessler documents it so convincingly. Insofar as opening up the Bureau as a whole, Kessler does take the reader inside various divisions (e.g. criminal, training, profiling, laboratory, etc.) and to various field offices across the nation. While some discussion is provided on how the FBI solves cases, the book tends to focus on office politics and on how the Bureau functions as an organization. Sometimes fascinating, sometimes tedious, this book is good reading, but not spectacular. It provides numerous anecdotes and a twist of irony: Director William Sessions was removed from the Bureaufor the sort of exploitation which was commonplace under the original headship of J. Edgar Hoover.	2001-10-11
US	50629416	R1TFSWW732SC1Y	1576737330	89800612	The Prayer of Jabez:  Breaking Through to the Blessed Life	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Simple Message Goes Hollywood	This book is worth reading, and Bruce Wilkinson makes it clear from the outset that he is not advocating a formulaic prayer to somehow coerce God into granting His blessing. Wilkinson is not, in fact, a &quot;health and wealth&quot; advocate, although some have pigeon-holed him as such for what he has written here. This book takes clearly into account the heart-set and motivations of the person praying the prayer and his or her faith in or relationship with God through Jesus Christ. Anyone can pray the Jabez prayer every morning, but the deeper issues concern whether we ourselves know God personally, whether we believe His promises, whether we desire God's blessings, and whether we are willing to change our lives in response to His answers. This book is not wonderful; neither is it terrible. It is popular simply because it has caused a stir and caught the public eye. If anything, &quot;The Prayer of Jabez&quot; reminds us how rich is the Bible, how generous is God's love, and how powerful are the prayers which are firmly rooted in the truth of Scripture.	2001-10-10
US	50629416	R3VFTQL4BVN41L	0837194520	6755696	The Craft of Intelligence.	Books	5	69	75	N	N	Core reading requirement for students of intelligence	As I began researching the modern intelligence community, several books (e.g. &quot;The Night Watch&quot; by David Atlee Philips) pointed back to &quot;The Craft of Intelligence&quot; as a fundamental starting point.  Because this book deals with the basic intelligence methods and objectives, it maintains its relevance well into the present.  In some sections Dulles also addresses the ethical implications of deceptive or clandestine intelligence collection, providing valuable thought or discussion material for individuals scrutinizing this unique, and arguably disdainful, function of government.  Dulles' writing style is thoughtful, refined, yet straightforward, revealing some of those traits which earned him the moniker &quot;The Gentleman Spy&quot;.	2001-10-10
US	50629416	R2Q38HBAUMFKDA	0815700792	564692676	Defense Policy Choices for the Bush Administration 2001 - 2005	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Solid &quot;Dollars and Sense&quot; discussion of defense spending	....This book is solid shop talk for those interested in defense policy, broaching many issues while consistently focusing on ways to limit (but not necessarily reduce) defense spending.  O'Hanlon argues that aggregate defense spending must increase modestly to preserve US interests at home and abroad, but that sensible cuts can be made elsewhere to offset the increase.  Some expenditures should be considered essential, such as replacing aging equipment which was acquired during the Reagan administration.  However, these costs can be tempered by limiting, though not eliminating, acquisitions of cutting edge technology while replenishing fleets with existing, effective, and less costly technology.  O'Hanlon makes a compelling argument (financial and otherwise) in favor of moving away from a two-war defense framework to one which enables the US to simultaneously tackle three engagements of varying intensities, something on the level of Desert Storm plus Desert Shield plus Bosnia / IFOR.  Many of O'Hanlon's arguments on homeland defense, while valid, have been discussed in more detail elsewhere (e.g. &quot;America's Achille's Heel&quot;).  His arguments for a limited missile defense (focusing primarily on boost-phase missile intercepts and the need for additional research) are solidly stated, and probably more so in his book &quot;Defending America&quot;.  A very thorough discussion of the China-Taiwan issue is provided, exploring potential military threats from both sides in detail.  O'Hanlon argues that China's current military threat to Taiwan is almost negligible and that only a Chinese blockade of the island would be likely to require outside military intervention.  The military and tactical strengths and weaknesses of both countries are discussed in turn, while exploring the delicate line the US must walk between antagonism and pacification in the region.	2001-09-26
US	50629416	R480WHT1NXIVL	0140390030	778751376	Uncle Tom's Cabin (The Penguin American Library)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Wonderful book; frivolous introduction	I am quite convinced that I can write nothing about this book which has not already been written.  However, I would like to leave subsequent readers with a couple of impressions which may be valuable.  First, if you read most books cover to cover as I do, I urge that you make an exception here.  If you have never read this book before, the introduction by Ann Douglas is a bit too revealing and can spoil the story for a first time reader.  In my strong opinion the introduction, in striving to be poignant and intellectual, underplays a monumentally important and simple message of the book:  true strength and dignity are found in self-sacrificial love.  Reading the introduction after reading the book (or skipping it altogether) would be a more profitable use of time.  Second, it is a sad commentary indeed that the term &quot;Uncle Tom&quot; has become a derogatory one, according to Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary: &quot;a black who is overeager to win the approval of whites&quot; or someone who is &quot;overly subservient&quot;.  To accept this usage in our own daily parlance is to deny another central and not at all subtle message of Uncle Tom's Cabin:  Tom is subservient above all else to God, through his faith in Christ.  His faith and relationship with God guide his life, not his earthly masters.  To the extent that he cannot exhibit God's love by doing the bidding of his master, he kindly but firmly refuses to cooperate.  I see in this sort of Uncle Tom a man of integrity, strength, courage, love, and tenderness.  If this is what it truly means to be an Uncle Tom, &quot;to do justice, to love kindness, and to walk humbly with your God&quot; (Micah 6:8, the Bible), then I would humbly and gratefully accept the label.	2001-09-24
US	50629416	R3BCLWQIGMNGAU	067173458X	781207896	Inside the CIA: Revealing the Secrets of the World's Most Powerful Spy Agency	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Nuts and bolts:  Start Here	If you have ever had personal contact with anyone from the Agency, you know that this is the book the CIA tends to recommend for those seeking to understand the real world of espionage.  This is not intended to be a spy thriller by any means or a pastiche of anecdotal accounts from folks in the field.  However, colorful, humorous, sometimes disappointing, and often intriguing stories are interspersed throughout the narrative which keep the reading interesting.  &quot;Inside the CIA&quot; touches on the Agency's history and development but focuses on Cold War and modern challenges, the personalities behind the decisions, past obstacles, successes and failures.  Under DCI William Webster, Kessler was granted significant cooperation and access, both from the upper echelons and from the staff at large.  His account does not seek to make friends within the Agency nor does it reek of an anti-Agency agenda.  This is a fairly level headed account and solid reference for anyone seeking to build a basic understanding of the intelligence community.	2001-09-08
US	50629416	R3C11R8IDD9L	0843713577	715465522	Hammond Explorer World Atlas	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Wonderful	I bought this atlas based exclusively on recommendations I read here at Amazon.com. You wont be disappointed. This atlas has everything you will need and more for daily use. It is well bound, fits in a backpack, and is put together with extreme attention to detail and usability. The recommendations you find here are certainly valid. Unless you're a professional geologist or something, this atlas is quite sufficient for families, students, and the general masses.	2001-09-08
US	50629416	R2CSATNU1MRUS9	1893472795	973559200	2001 Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) History and Documents	Books	1	5	5	N	N	Nothing new here	I purchased this item hoping to expand my knowledge of DIA, since there is little in the way of recently published information. However, this CD is little more than (if not exclusively) a copy of everything found at DIA's website as of about spring or summer 2001. This is literally a reproduction of the website on CD complete with links. Some pages indicate the day the snapshot was taken (i.e. Website Design by DIA's Digital Services Team Updated: Friday, 29-Jun-2001 15:12:49 EDT). In some ways the actual website is better because most of the links are functional. For example, the CD does not allow you to successfully click on the link to &quot;Video Vault&quot; or to the audio from the recent radio interview with DIA Director Vice Admiral Thomas R. Wilson (it does contain the written transcript, but so does the web site at the time of my writing).  I did an initial check and found that most (if not all) documents on the CD concerning high-profile issues such as UFO's, Lockerbie, etc. can be also be found within DIA's freedom of information act pages. The pro to the CD is the very high resolution images it contains, which I'm sure would be great for a presentation. However, I'm sure the ones made public on the web would also suffice. If you can't read some of the unclassified documents which you download from the website, they may not be any better on the CD. Some are still completely unreadable regardless of the resolution and magnification you select. This CD is produced by Progressive Management, which to my knowledge is not affiliated with any government printing office. I give this product one star because of its high quality images, but it otherwise does little to add to the public material on DIA. You should know that you're basically purchasing a web site on CD.	2001-09-08
US	50629416	RTV4T97U0YSFX	0800786335	818861786	Born Again	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Refreshing, encouraging, and uplifting	If ever a gust of fresh air wafted out of the smog of Watergate, the story of Christ coming into the life of Chuck Colson has to be part of it.  I loved this book.  It is a simple, quick, and uplifting read.  Colson rejected a full scholarship to Harvard on a matter of principle, and his grittiness, perseverance, and humbling transformation shine as examples of God's artistic handiwork.  As other readers have mentioned, Colson is extremely forthright and honest, both in recounting his pre-Christian mentality and his post-conversion weaknesses.  He does so to the point of making himself vulnerable and willingly so.  I so much appreciate that decision, as I am sure do many others.  He details the &quot;obvious&quot; at the risk of seeming simplistic, if only because those simple observations stuck with him and impacted him.  One clear example can be found upon his entry to the prison at Maxwell Air Base:  &quot;Not only were all uniforms the same drab brown; so were the expressions on the faces.  Something strange here.  Then it struck me--no one was smiling.&quot;  This is a fine book and worth reading.  One final excerpt to encourage you:  &quot;My new friend then handed me a copy of the Phillips version of the New Testament, inscribed:  To Charles--It is better to fail in a cause that will ultimately succeed than to succeed in a cause that will ultimately fail--God bless you!  Doug.  Matthew 6:33.  How those words were to haunt and lead me in the days to come!&quot;	2001-08-23
US	50629416	R249GVL10TDB8H	0807119067	655931800	Dark Eyes on America: The Novels of Joyce Carol Oates	Books	2	0	1	N	N	Writing style unclear / questionable analysis	While the concept of condensing the thoughts of international philosophes for the benefit of students is laudable, the reasoning employed in this book is frustrating and prone to have the reader littering the margin with comments.  Here are a few examples:<br />1)  p. 10 &quot;The first viewpoint is well expressed by Martin Wight in an unusually provocative paper...&quot;  -- This quote does not tell us if the author only finds few of Wight's papers provocative or few of any papers provocative.   2)  p. 61 &quot;On other issues his [Thomas Aquinas's] reasoning is less satisfactory, as when he places community above the individual...&quot;  -- One could easily argue that many extremely reasonable people have placed the well being of the community above that of the individual.  This is part of the last sentence of the chapter on Aquinas, and Thompson gives no explanation for why this reasoning is &quot;less satisfactory&quot;. 3)  p. 79  &quot;Much as Plato's critics found that the idea of the philosopher king was antidemocratic and totalitarian, some of Hobbes's critics make that charge.  Forgotten by Hobbes's critics was the individual's voluntary relinquishment of certain rights through a compact or social contract.&quot;  --  This blanket statement about Hobbes's critics is doubtful.  Hobbes's critics likely feared that the voluntary relinquishment of rights would again foster the development of non-voluntary, totalitarian regimes similar to what they had seen in times past. 4)  p. 8  &quot;If philosophy is defined as an unusually stubborn attempt to think clearly, then a comprehensive philosophical approach to world politics should lead to the rediscovery of our place in history.&quot;  --  The philosophical mind often determines that there is no beginning or end to time (history).  If that is true, then the &quot;rediscovery of our place in history&quot; is impossible.  It would be akin to trying to establish a fixed point on a line which has no beginning, no end, and continues to lengthen.<br />An alternative may be &quot;Classic Readings of International Relations&quot; (Phil Williams, et. al.) which provides less commentary and focuses on excerpts actually written by many of the same authors discussed in &quot;Fathers of International Thought.&quot;	2001-08-13
US	50629416	R1G14MXW6TSIIM	0671695258	265128760	BLOND GHOST	Books	2	11	25	N	N	Heavily biased but informative	Regardless of one's views on the CIA, it becomes quickly apparent that Corn's account of Agency activities, most of them pre-dating Church Committee hearings, is an extremely biased one. This is like reading an extended editorial column from an avid critic. The research is certainly thorough, although his admittedly extensive use of anonymous sources throws even more doubt on how much of the book can be taken at face value. Because the narratives primarily critique specific decisions and operations, it is easy to forget that Corn has chosen Shackley as the primary character. He is never really established as such. Expect to spend lots of time reading about operations in SE Asia. I do not at all agree that this book is essential reading for those interested in the intelligence community.  For a more entertaining account of the inner workings of the Directorate of Operations (DO) during roughly the same time period, take a look at &quot;The Night Watch&quot; by David Atlee Philips. To my knowledge, Corn has never worked for the CIA. Philips served in various capacities within the DO.	2001-08-12
US	50629416	RXTUH2FJ1ULEX	0262561182	926256634	America's Achilles' Heel: Nuclear, Biological, and Chemical Terrorism and Covert Attack (BCSIA Studies in International Security)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Systematic, thorough, detailed, very solid...	In a very good way, I got more than I bargained for by reading this book.  While seeking a solid source to inform myself on the &quot;nuts and bolts&quot;, policy implications, and development of weapons of mass destruction (WMD), I continued to come across this title.  Expect some dense and intense reading; there is not a wasted word here.  The book focuses exclusively on the covert delivery of a nuclear, biological, or chemical weapon against an American target, exploring possible methods, limitations, locales, preventive measures, and consequences.  This book will considerably broaden the knowledge of any first-timer looking into WMD and likely provides substantive material for discussion among policy makers and experts in the field.	2001-08-12
US	50629416	RHL7DC1T7PA13	0471132977	181309881	The Battle for Investment Survival (A Marketplace Book)	Books	3	5	9	N	N	Timeless wisdom / Dated info	I too read this book (1956 printing from a university library) given the influence it has had on the writing and investment philosophy of William O'Neil. To a large extent, conceptually speaking, if you've read O'Neil's major works, you've already read Loeb. The benefits I gained out of reading Loeb were: 1) Finding that time-tested investment wisdom does exist, and that O'Neil (and even Loeb) are simply restating those pearls. 2) A laugh here and there. A couple of anecdotal sections regarding Loeb's affinity for sweets were a nice diversion. But these are few since he sticks to the point. You have to dig for the humorous gems. 3) Realizing again that whether you are a business or an investor or a financial consultant, serving your client 112% and maintaining strict integrity still works. The Biblical principles upon which this country was founded didn't fail Loeb as he developed his customer base.<br />The internet and the availability of info has changed tons of what Loeb has written, however. Reading a few reviews of his book a few decades later may well give you the meat with less effort.	2001-03-16
