US	50627786	R3EL5T57T5ACNG	0882664069	304141393	Buying & Selling Antiques: A Dealer's Inside View	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Older title but still valuable and fun	This book is excellently written with many enlightening stories to illustrate the authors' points about buying, selling, negotiating and more.<BR>As someone who is toying with the idea of opening a booth in an antiques mall, I appreciated reading about the other selling options available such as holding antiques yard sales, picking for other dealers, or attending flea sales.<BR>Although this book is not very long, it is the most helpful title I've found and is well worth its price. The authors concentrate on what the reader really needs to know: how to get started without getting in over one's head, how to buy and where (with the inside scoop on auctions and estate sales - fascinating!), how to sell most items at a profit and get rid of the mistakes, dealer discounts and possible sidelines to earn extra income.	2002-10-22
US	50627786	R1CL4FDVHE1HYI	1564966070	208434646	Big Ideas for Small Spaces	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Stylish look at dozens of ways to create storage &amp; space	It's true, unlike the other reviewer I live only with my husband. Yet we both work from home, have numerous hobbies, store stuff for relatives who live on a boat but like to visit and access their belongings, and host visitors. Possessions seem to multiply like mice, yet we want a stylish home. How to cram it all in while maintaining the illusion that our home is full of space?<BR>Christine has written a book filled with clever ideas, all of them illustrated with beautiful photographs on, I think, every single page. Anyone who values a beautiful home will acquire valuable ideas by looking at this book - it's become one of my top favorites. I think someone looking for graceful ways to present their precious belongings will especially appreciate this book as she shows how to highlight each room.<BR>While you can't make a space bigger, you can make it a pleasure to live in. My rooms will always have more stuff visible than the staged photos in this book, but they do give me inspiration (particularly when I'm in the mood to get rid of stuff!).	2002-08-30
US	50627786	R2AYWN2X6VOYJW	0924486953	194853132	Blown Away	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Great read for the Landlocked	I'm landlocked in Colorado, with no real desire to cruise on an ocean or even a bay, yet I really enjoyed reading this book. Herb and his wife, Nancy, were ordinary people except with perhaps even more limited funds than most Americans. Yet they impulsively decided to take to the sea. Somewhere along the way Herb started writing articles about his adventures (they almost always needed extra money because something else on the boat had broken). Eventually that led to this amusing, laugh out loud while reading it, book.<BR>Herb displays a fine sense of humor that never comes across as mean, just amusing as he describes himself and the people he meets along the way. This is a good book for sharing with others, then tucking it away on the bookshelf for another read next year. And if any cruiser is trying to explain to a landlubber what it's like on the water, this book would be the perfect gift to share both the bad (lost in the middle of a pitch black night surrounded by dangerous coral heads) and the glorious (a village throwing a party in honor of your visit). A charming book that is aging extremely well.	2002-02-21
US	50627786	RC9OV90CYPUW	0891348700	652050421	Decorative Furniture Finishes With Vinegar Paint (Decorative Painting)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Finally, the instructions!	Many years ago I was at a stranger's house (maybe the house was for sale or for rent), and I saw the most beautiful painted piece of furniture. This armoire was finished in a variety of rich brown textures, and I asked the woman how it had been done. Although she was the artist, she was very secretive, admitting only that she had used a wine bottle cork to produce one pattern.<BR>Since then I've been looking for a book that would show me how to create these results. I've bought at least a dozen 'paint your furniture' books, but they focused on flat applications of paint. Admittedly pretty, I wanted instead to produce the illusion of depth and exotic wood grainlines that I had seen.<BR>Yesterday I received Bill Russell's book, and this book reveals the secret! The pictured projects are gorgeous, the illustrated instructions are some of the clearest and easiest to understand that I've ever seen in hundreds of how-to books, and the necessary supplies are explained in detail.<BR>Bill uses a variety of tools to manipulate his paint, but not a cork. Yet following his explanations I can see how to use one, both on its side and using the end. Bill suggests making sample boards out of inexpensive cardboard to test colors and techniques. What would happen if I used a sponge? A piece of crumpled cloth or lace? Based on his solid basics, a decorative artist could have a ball exploring the possibilities. But one doesn't have to be an artist to produce lovely results using Bill's suggested colors and combinations. What a fantastic book!	2002-01-30
US	50627786	RK2U6XHO0VF4F	0517704668	633777304	The Art of Decoration	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Gorgeous photographs of elegant homes	I have the English edition of this book (called Nina Campbell on Decorating), same number of pages, same copyright date, identical book size, inside look at how she worked with ten clients, so I believe it is the same book with a different title and cover picture (stuff that is typically altered when a book crosses the Atlantic).<BR>The photographs are lovely, showed to their full advantage in this oversized book, accompanied by easy-to-read text that brought me into the dilemmas and solution process for each of the ten houses. Sometimes I disagreed with the results because decorating is a subjective art, but I loved discovering Nina's decorating philosophy. For example, on page 79 she says \\"Undoubtedly, my client will add paintings as he finds them. A house that is complete from the minute the owner walks in is not an ideal home. In the early stages a room needs to be 'en route,' as it were. You should be able to invite your friends to a party without being embarrassed that it's 'not quite finished.\\"<BR>Of course, Nina's comments also give us insight into how a designer works with a client, including some funny episodes such as the time she was confused about which way a painting a client owned should be hung - she thought vertical, and it turned out horizontal was the artist's intention!<BR>Nina's style tends toward the formal and elegant, but anyone could learn from her approach to decorating. An enjoyable book to read, I'm looking forward to sharing it with some friends of mine who are designing a home - who could resist a wall of books in the study that is really a door? And her decorating tricks, such as lowering a high ceiling by painting it with a mottled texture, can be used by anyone.	2002-01-26
US	50627786	R1CXWJRJBMSDGJ	0806931590	518415457	Home Decorating with Fabric: More Than 80 Great Projects from Cushions to Comforters	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Best if you have some sewing experience	I sewed my first duvet cover last summer and ran into a few problems. The book I was using advised me to make the duvet a bit smaller than the comforter so it would be full and fluffy - not a good idea! Lumpy is a better way to describe the result. So when I picked up Carol's book, I looked first to see what she advised (same size). This gave me faith that her other ideas would work well.<br />Carol's approach is playful and fun, suggesting that you use different but coordinating fabrics to cover each hard-backed chair in a dining room, or sew panels to hang around your bed. The projects cover a broad range from duvet covers to a variety of pillows to curtains and lamp shades, plus slip covers for futons and even wing chairs.<br />I didn't give this book a five because some of the pictures felt dated - it's always wonderful to be able to luxuriate in beautiful pictures - plus some of the instructions assume more knowledge than some people may have.<br />For example, when fitting pieces to the wing chair, she advises the reader to use darts or tucks where appropriate. Oh, really. Nothing more to say on that? I checked the basic sewing guide at the beginning of the book. No mention there of darts or tucks. Nor do these two terms appear in the cursory one page index. I have personally sewn a few darts in my life, so I'm sure I could figure this out assuming I get my hands on a nice affordable wing chair in need of covering, but some readers may need to have a general sewing reference book on hand to help out with the details of technique.<br />Still, anyone with a minimal amount of sewing experience should get his or her money's worth out of this book, and be pleased with what they create for their home.	2002-01-26
US	50627786	R1E3BJ4U8N2Y16	0873416775	10998060	Shirley Botsford's Decorating With Fabric Crafts: Create Elegant Home Accessories Inspired by Architecture	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Projects for the entire home	Unlike many craft books that focus on one project, Shirley provides details (and patterns in the back of the book!) to make a variety of items for the home. Inspired by her 1889 Queen Anne Victorian home, Shirley shares how the house led her to create a stenciled satin quilt, teapot cozy, bordered napkins, a muffin warmer, silk embroidered bell pull, appliqued table runner, quilted place mats, appliqued panel screen, and more. My favorites are the teddy bear made of ribbons (I love beautiful ribbons but don't know what to do with them sometimes) and a velvet covered memory album.<BR>This is a great book for someone who wants to buy only one book, but learn how to do lots of things. Instructions seemed clear and easy to me, but I do have some experience in many areas. Still, I think most beginners will find these projects quite manageable. More experienced crafters will find inspiration in the way Shirley approached her house's decorating needs and how she used the motifs already in her home to design complimentary items.	2002-01-25
US	50627786	R1JHJ9K321YQV8	157076042X	192079900	Needlework Animals: With over 25 Original Charted Designs	Books	4	27	28	N	N	Wide variety of detailed and appealing animals	This oversized book presents many beautiful charted designs of animals set in their habitats. I particularly liked the animal alphabet and animal numerals, as well as the idea of joining several squares featuring animals such as otters and trout and quail into a carpet (though I would use it with her ivy border as a wall hanging - no way is it going on the floor!).<br />The only odd thing was the decision to scatter photographic collage pictures  throughout the book. I didn't find them particularly appealing and wasn't sure why they were included except that Elizabeth had fun making them and wanted them in the book.<br />For those who want to do needlework animals in a classic, realistic style rather than a cutesy or country style, this book includes many appealing projects.	2002-01-25
US	50627786	R3SK8CGGYHZJ0H	0060198281	105067816	Writing at the Kitchen Table: The Authorized Biography of Elizabeth David	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Revealing look into a place and time	When I purchased this book, I had no idea who Elizabeth David was, but as a writer I couldn't resist reading about such a successful cookbook author. Artemis Cooper sorted through an immense amount of material and produced a wonderful story of a woman and the times that created her.<BR>Born well-to-do in Britain, Elizabeth David started life basically ignored by her parents, and grew into a dilettante. With some bad judgement she ended up in the wrong place (Italy) toward the beginning of World War II, and spent years being exposed to a completely different kind of food than she had known in England. So one of the &quot;bad&quot; events in her life helped guide her to cookery writing.<BR>The biographer has a lovely writing style, and fills in the bits quoted from letters and interviews very smoothly with narrative explanations. For example, Artemis writes &quot;Robin Fedden invited Elizabeth to Chantemesle, some fifty miles northwest of Paris, where his parents lived. On one side of the house was the River Seine, winding between little green islands alive with birds, and on the other, the abrupt ascent of a dry limestone escarpment. Cherry and apricot trees stood about the house. 'It was beautiful there. I have never forgotten it,' Elizabeth wrote. Perhaps it was then that Robin proposed to her; many years later, she admitted to Robin's daughter Frances that she and her father had been engaged.&quot; The biographer does this throughout the book, turning one little quote into a lyrical paragraph (though if you think this sample was overdone, then you probably won't like this book).<BR>By following Elizabeth's life, I learned that food rationing remained in place in England until the mid 1950's, and what horrible things can happen to an author when the rights to her books pass to other publishers than the ones she originally signs with (shudder!). While the story lagged for me when she returned home and began writing cookbooks, other readers who are more familiar withher and the people in her life will likely disagree.<BR>On a personal note, I resolved to learn from some of Elizabeth's mistakes. Much of the unhappiness in her life stemmed from her personal weaknesses. A very rigid woman, she had trouble seeing things from another person's perspective. This allowed her the joy of being right, but separated her from other people.<BR>Although a rather dense read, this book is overall very enjoyable.	2002-01-25
US	50627786	R3N6WON3508D1E	1582970629	885337218	The Marshall Plan for Novel Writing	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Fiction writing simplified	A plan for writing a novel that fits almost everyone? My first impulse was to snicker, even to hoot out loud. What type of story could someone hope to create following a formula designed to accomodate every major fiction genre out there?<BR>Yet I couldn't resist opening the book. After standing in the bookstore reading it for awhile, I knew it would go home with me, and I finished it that night (though it's destined to get read repeatedly!). Although I have written two complete novels, Evan Marshall's approach is so intriguing that I plan to adapt parts of it to my next novel. Why? Because my story lines are getting complex enough that I'm afraid I'll lose my balance, and his method of planning a book should keep the subplots and main plot flowing smoothly. So this book is helpful to more than beginning writers.<BR>Yet I think the Marshall Plan is absolutely wonderful for any would-be author who isn't quite sure how to get his or her ideas shaped into a novel. Using the plan, a novelist will keep the action moving, learn to interweave story lines, develop interesting characters, produce good dialogue, and avoid the dreaded mid-story sag. Plus learn how to wrap up the ending, write a query letter, get an agent and (hopefully) be published.<BR>Is Mr. Marshall teaching people how to write the Great American Novel? No, and I can think of several fine best-selling books that I've read in the past year that break many of the plan's guidelines. But this book will be very helpful to those who want to tell an entertaining tale that will be published. As an agent, Mr. Marshall knows what sells, and he sees where most budding novelists go wrong. Certainly his book is an excellent starting point, and probably more helpful to a beginner than anything else I've ever seen. I highly recommend this book.	2002-01-25
US	50627786	R2OQRLJMPRLWHK	0385495900	157166909	Motherswork: How A Young Mother Started A Business On A Shoestring And Built It Into Multi-Million Dollar Company	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The personal journey of a business woman	I took this book with me on a recent business trip to Chicago and had to force myself to stop reading it at a reasonable hour the first night so I could get some sleep. This book is not a how-to start a business and take it public kind of book, but rather a look at the woman who ended up doing precisely that and what it meant to her personally.<BR>It's interesting to read the other reviews, because obviously some readers wanted Rebecca to say that she had done it all on her own without any support from her family, or that she managed to create a multi-million dollar business, have a family, AND have time for hobbies, friends, and handicrafts. But the fact that Rebecca's husband and parents worked beside her doesn't detract from her achievement in my eyes. Nor was I surprised that she only has room in her life for immediate family and her business. As I consider whether and how much I want to grow my company, I look at her life and realize that I'm not as ambitious as she is. Yet I admire what she has done, and really admire her bravery as she bares herself in this revealing autobiography of her working years.<BR>Anyone who wants an honest inside look at what it takes in terms of commitment, hard work, and the ability to recover from mistakes and the inevitable setbacks along the way will enjoy reading Motherswork. Bravo to Rebecca for sharing her story with the rest of us.	2002-01-25
US	50627786	R3P3U25OQR4851	080699472X	176060958	Creative Paper Art: Techniques for Transforming the Surface	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Create works of art or play with your kids	Although I agree with the other reviewers that no technique is explored in depth, this is a wonderful introduction to lots of ways to decorate paper. The book is full of large color photographs of some of the most beautiful paper art I've seen. While I doubt that most beginners will produce the same quality of results, they should have a great deal of fun trying. Many of the techniques are suited for children, especially the bubbling technique. This involves coloring water, blowing bubbles in it with a straw, then pressing paper to the bubbles to make them pop and leave a circular mark on the paper, repeating to create a pattern. All my nephews and nieces should get a kick out of that one (even the fourteen-year-old boy!). A fun book.	2002-01-25
US	50627786	R2C7F6TFT8T2CJ	157120105X	265626326	Color Play: Easy Steps to Imaginative Color in Quilts	Books	5	156	157	N	Y	Moods and seasons of color	Nothing is more disappointing than to see a beautifully sewn quilt that is ugly. All those hours and material invested to produce, hmm, well, something that will keep someone warm.<BR>While nothing can replace a quilter's own developing sense of color relationships for creating a stunning quilt, Joen's Color Play is a great self-teaching tool. Information many people learned years ago in school, for example that blue and orange are complementary colors, is not true in fabrics. Joen presents the Ives Color Wheel, and promises her readers that using magenta, yellow and turquoise as the primary colors instead of red, yellow and blue will 'create the most powerfully beautiful colors in the world.' The Ives Color Wheel is presented as the only element on page 11 so it is large enough to be very useful when selecting fabrics.<BR>Joen also discusses the colors that correspond with various seasons and moods, helping any quilter who wants to convey a particular feeling or time of year.<BR>Although much of the book consists of color drawings of quilts to illustrate color partnerships, dozens of pictures of real quilts are included and referred to as examples. A bonus chapter at the end explain how to created special effects such as a sense of depth, luminosity, luster, transparency, shadows and highlights - very inspiring!<BR>A great reference book!	2002-01-13
US	50627786	R2HWYHZYTOLDPJ	1564773272	525775247	Quilting Masterclass: Inspirations and Techniques from the Experts	Books	5	35	35	N	Y	A smorgasbord of beautiful quilts	I bought this book as my husband's birthday gift to me based on the Amazon.com reviews, and have not been disappointed! Some of these quilts make my mouth fall open at the skill and time it took to make them. What vision! What fabulous ideas! This one book alone could inspire a quilter to sew for the rest of her life.<br />Although not a how-to book per se, some of the most interesting techniques are explained in adequate detail to replicate. The quilts have been divided into sections called Traditional and Beyond, Illusion: Two Dimensions into Three, Pictorial and Story, Contemporary Abstract, and Textured and Embellished. I admired quilts in every section, but my particular favorites are Open Gate (a reverse applique of black fabric gate over a watercolor garden that is 5 X 7 feet), Glass Carafes (I've always loved watercolor paintings of glass items, but it never occurred to me to attempt something so delicate and luminous in fabric), The Greek Quilt (the earth-toned applique reminded me of the painting on a tribal piece of pottery), and Quilt for a Hot Night (five brightly colored strips of piece work connected by narrow cloth strips reminescent of bead weaving and Africa).<br />An incredible book for any quilter, and great fun to share. This is the type of book I like to show people who are unfamiliar with quilting and ask them to pick out their favorites. My family had fun doing this when we got together Christmas Eve (fun to do with strangers, too!)	2002-01-13
US	50627786	R1NSHNW5O5A5WW	1571201033	249985818	The Quilted Garden: Design and Make Nature Inspired Quilts	Books	5	59	59	N	Y	Her designs and attitude will stretch your imagination	I bought this book fully aware that Jane's graphic style is completely different from my tendency to favor realistic applique or gentle color washes. I wanted to expand my vision, and this incredible book is everything I hoped for. Unlike some quilt books that focus on a technique and others that focus on the development of a quilt artist over time, this book tackles both.<BR>Jane shares her background, introduction to quilting as an artistic medium, her struggles along the way, and the progression of her style, presented both in words and in pictures of her quilts over the years.<BR>The last 40% of the book shows you how find your inpirational material, say a dandelion leaf or iris flower, and work with it to identify its signature characteristics.<BR>Using two quilts, Jane shows her two approaches, providing plenty of detail. I'm working with the image of a Christmas cactus (I bought this book during the holiday season). I can tell that it's going to take a while before I get the design to the point where it pleases me enough to start buying fabric and sewing, but it's an enjoyable challenge. I look forward to producing something completely different from anything I've ever done or thought of doing.<BR>Even if someone never intended to make a quilt like Jane's, reading this book and studying the pictures is an incredible education. The intense power that leaps from her designs is a challenge to every artist to put more life into every work of art. This is a book I will read many times, marveling at what this woman has created.	2002-01-13
US	50627786	R2UCQKVPM2B546	1580621236	485961084	The Postage Stamp Garden Book: Grow Tons of Vegetables in Small Places	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Incredibly inspirational	I've grown vegetables in the past, when I was a teenager, but now that I'm going to try again in my thirties, I wanted to brush up on the best way to get as many vegetables as possible out of a small mountain garden. Following the authors' directions I measured my space, made a list of the number of plants for each vegetable based on the size of my family, and then used their spacing recommendations to see if it would all fit, taking into account intercropping and succession planting. It all turned out to be fairly easy to accomplish (on paper at least!), and I'm now shopping for seeds. I'll update this review next fall with my results.	2002-01-13
US	50627786	R2Y302TGE7RTYJ	1564771474	979212339	Erika Carter: Personal Imagery in Art Quilts	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Inspirational and beautiful	This book is an in-depth look at the development of one quilt artist, Erika Carter. In the introduction on page 6 Rick Gottas of the American Art Company says, &quot;Few works of art are more satisfying to see installed than Erika Carter's fine art quilts.&quot; Behind these words is a picture of a gallery show revealing four of Erika's quilts. The effect is amazing, more beautiful to the eye than almost any gallery show I have attended.<BR>Erika's style is incredibly painterly in style, to the point where on her latest quilts I have to look hard to see how she's achieved her results with fabric. Her designs are colorful, but as the years go by they become progressively more subtle. It's fascinating to watch as she moves from traditional patchwork to strips of trapezoids, delicate lines suggesting trees and grass until her most recent and incredibly delicate work with the softest of colors.<BR>Although the book contains no how-to instructions, any quilter interested in art quilts will gather ideas. This is the sort of book to keep by the bed or bath, to study at leisure.	2002-01-13
US	50627786	R2F3DDHNEJNJCN	0785805788	686763609	Flower Painters Pocket Palette	Books	5	41	41	N	N	Great results for a beginner	So many painting books cover too much from one step to the next. For example, they say &quot;And then add the finishing touches&quot; and the picture goes from murky (the type I typically paint) to beautiful. Okay, so obviously great pictures result from knowing what to do at the end, but what was that precisely?<BR>This delightful little book keeps its focus on something small enough to properly explain, one flower at a time. My first attempts to follow the examples resulted in flowers I couldn't believe I had just painted. The small successful efforts I make guided by this book makes me believe I can someday paint the way I want to. Even those who aren't particularly interested in painting flowers will learn how to get paint to look a certain way on the paper. A fabulous book for the beginner.	2002-01-07
US	50627786	R1TMKSPDTXXZEO	1564770311	611660436	Watercolor Quilts	Books	5	39	40	N	N	I'm blissfully addicted to manipulating fabric squares	Though my grandmother and great-aunt quilted, and I enjoyed using their quilts, it never occurred to me to make a quilt or quilted wall piece myself. Then I stumbled across Watercolor Quilts at the library. Intrigued, I took it home, fell in love with the surprising and beautiful interplay of many unrelated pieces of fabric. I bought this book and its successor, Watercolor Impressions, and have pieced my first three wall quilts. I've tried fabric projects out of other books, but this technique is wonderfully hypnotic (and my favorite). I use my bedroom wall across from my bed as my design wall. Then I spend blissful hours adding pieces to my design between resting against the soft pillows while pondering the next 2&quot; square I want to add. When I sew the squares together I'm fascinated by how the image changes as the seam allowances disappear. This is not a fast production technique, but it is wonderfully meditative. For those who don't want to spend the time cutting a stash of 2&quot; squares, many quilting supply catalogs such as Keepsake Quilts sell packages of pre-cut assorted squares. This book changed my creative life.	2002-01-06
US	50627786	RYXSZJP0COIQD	0918880416	96888531	Jump Start Your Book Sales: A Money-Making Guide for Authors, Independent Publishers and Small Presses	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Friendly, Encouraging Advice	I've met Marilyn Ross, and this book conveys her personality perfectly - chipper, upbeat, extremely positive, never take no for an answer in the sweetest possible way. Reading the book is like getting a pep talk while being peppered with an incredible array of tactics and ideas. Whenever an author or book publisher feels stuck for ideas, or simply discouraged, reading a few chapters of this book should get them excited and moving again. I particularly liked Part IV, Flip the Switch with Nontraditional Retail Markets. The chapters there on premium sales and selling to QVC and Home Shopping Network deliver some of the best information I've seen on breaking into these markets.	2001-11-06
US	50627786	RWD1ZEF8A64UU	1555611702	747643797	Publishing For Profit	Books	5	17	17	N	Y	How to Organize Your Publishing Company	The first time I read this book was early in my career as a publisher. With only one book on the market, a lot of the advice didn't hit home. How hard is it to manage one title and a part-time assistant? Now with three books in print and more in the pipeline, I'm finding Publishing for Profit ever more useful. With growth in mind, I need guidelines from someone who's been there, done that. Mr. Woll's experiences with a number of publishing companies gave him a broad-based view that will be equally as helpful to companies who are reorganizing as well as to upstart companies who want to start off on the right foot. Does the single title self-publisher need this book? Not really (though if he or she is planning or dreaming of bigger things, reading this book might be educational). But the multi-title, multi-author, multi-employee publisher should take a look to see if his or her publishing system could be improved. Mr. Woll covers it all, from working with staff and authors, to managing cash flow and developing company goals.	2001-11-06
US	50627786	RDKU24927LD0P	0967963605	496569216	A Housekeeper Is Cheaper Than a Divorce: Why You Can Afford to Hire Help and How to Get It	Books	5	19	20	N	Y	Helps you sort through emotion and logic	The thought of hiring someone to help in the house brought up a swirling mixture of emotions, making it hard to logically decide if household help was right for me. Besides covering all the how-to issues of placing ads, interviewing, training, and paying taxes, in her book Kathy helps readers sort out the emotional side of deciding to hire household help. In summation, if we are willing to buy a meal from a fast food chain that pays its workers a bit above minimum wage, why not pay someone to cook a meal for us in our own kitchen (at a higher hourly wage)? Ditto for paying for laundry services, a grocery store that picks out our food, or a babysitter to watch the kids while we do chores. Because I am a married woman without kids, I initially decided to hire a cleaning service to come once a month instead of hiring my own part-time employee. But when my husband ruptured his Achilles' tendon, leading to three successive casts and rehabilitation, my work activities as a self-employed writer and real estate investor came to a crashing halt. Much of my time was spent doing his share of the chores plus taking care of his new needs. I reread Kathy's book, placed an ad in the local college newspaper, and received three calls a day until I canceled the ad early (I decided it was worth it to offer $11 per hour to get the best applicants I could afford). The mature student I hired has worked in the past for a cleaning service, is more of a neatnik than I am, and is a talented cook! Even after my husband's leg heals, I suspect we are going to continue hiring part-time help. It is absolutely wonderful to leave my computer and walk upstairs into a clean house with fresh baked cookies cooling on the counter! For us, it is worth it to economize in other areas (our newest car is 8 years old) in order to afford household help. I'm glad Kathy wrote this book because it helped us make a decision that worked for us.	2001-09-19
US	50627786	R1F4FNQQKEXD6N	068481465X	563982708	Home Comforts: The Art and Science of Keeping House	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A Way to Think About Your Home	Home Comforts contains a philosophy of homemaking. If your parents never took the time to teach you (perhaps unwilling as a youngster) how to create a home, you may never have considered the pros and cons of airing beds, sanitizing kitchens counters, selecting the best sheets and pillows, preventing home accidents, and much more. I enjoyed reading sections out loud to my husband in the evenings so we could discuss our feelings and preferences about how we run our household.<br />I suspect that many people my age (mid-thirties) dismissed housekeeping as non-important or simple work when approaching adulthood. We didn't realize everything that goes into making a home safe, attractive, and functional. A book like this helps to fill in some of the missing pieces, even though despite its enormous size it is still not comprehensive.<br />For focused help on related topics, if you need help organizing your stuff I'd also recommend reading Sidetracked Home Executives by Peggy Jones and Pam Young, a book by Heloise if you want information on how to clean something, and A Housekeeper is Cheaper than a Divorce by Kathy Sherman Fitzgerald if you ever decide to hire a household employee or even a cleaning service. (When my husband ruptured his Achilles' tendon, requiring surgery, three successive casts and then rehabilitation, I quickly got swamped with household tasks. I used Kathy's advice to hire a college student part-time to help out, and it's been wonderful, though it wouldn't have worked as well if I hadn't invested time beforehand learning how to organize and clean my home effectively).<br />Running a home well requires quite a bit of knowledge and organization, and Home Comforts will help you decide what and what not is important to you.	2001-09-19
US	50627786	R21M72ZLC7TN5B	0898798159	508136701	Dynamic Characters: How to Create Personalities That Keep Readers Captivated	Books	5	18	19	N	Y	The Best Book I've Read on Creating Fictional Characters	If you are a writer who adores reading and writing stories that focus on the characters, you'll fall in love with Dynamic Characters. The author provides an excellent guide to developing characters plus great direction on how to create a meaningful plot based on who your characters are. She also includes one of the best chapters on dialogue I've ever read. Her examples are crystal clear as well as inspiring to the creative muse (hmm, how could I apply this to my story? Oh, yes, this way and that way and...) Because Ms. Kress covers everything that matters to characterization, this book goes far beyond merely how to create fictional characters. It is instead one of the best comprehensive how-to-write books available.	2001-08-14
US	50627786	R33B4EBK3IDGAO	0898799953	31134583	Writing the Breakout Novel: Insider Advice for Taking Your Fiction to the Next Level	Books	5	17	20	N	Y	Best for the More Experienced Writer	Everyone would prefer to write a book that sells lots of copies rather than just a few. Therefore Maass' topic is nearly irresistible, but the beginning novelist may not fully understand a lot of what this agent is saying. After all, what is the point of learning how to make the scope of a novel bigger until you've first figured out how to write what is referred to as a small novel? For those who need to learn how to plot, write dialogue, and develop intriguing and sympathetic characters, other books by authors such as Nancy Kress and Jack M. Bickham would be more immediately useful. If, however, you have conquered the basics (whether published or not) and want to learn what to do to move up to the next level, Writing the Breakout Novel is a fantastic book. From setting to character to plot to theme Maass shows examples drawn from a wide variety of breakout books to help writers learn the techniques for creating breakout quality stories. In the introduction, Maass states that he does not believe in magic. Books don't just mysteriously leap onto the best seller lists. He says, &quot;I believe it is possible for a writer to understand, at least in part, the mechanics of the breakout novel and to apply these devices to his writing...Great novels result from their authors' refusal to settle for being 'good.'&quot; Does Maass promise results for every reader of his book? No, but he does say, &quot;Any author who can write a salable novel can also improve, and virtually all writers can write a breakout novel. How do I know? Because it happens all the time.&quot; If you'd like it to happen to you, this book can show you how.	2001-08-14
US	50627786	R27B992I5CETHI	0898799058	602023351	Elements of Fiction Writing - Beginnings, Middles & Ends	Books	5	32	35	N	Y	How to turn an okay manuscript into a winner	I read this book when I was revising a manuscript. Nancy Kress shows how to make all the parts of a novel connect to provide a satisfactory reading experience. Her section on endings was particularly strong, and helped to transform my last page from merely so-so to five paragraphs that sum up the message of the story in a powerful and readable piece of exposition and dialogue. This book is ideal if your unruly story is escaping from your control, or if it doesn't deliver its message with the power you know it could. Helpful for the beginning novelist who needs assistance shaping a story as well as for the experienced novelist who wants to increase his or her mastery in the craft of writing.	2001-08-14
US	50627786	R2KDF60WKW84ZT	0963469908	130491118	A Simple Guide to Self-Publishing: A Step-by-Step Handbook to Prepare, Print, Distribute & Promote Your Own Book - 3rd edition	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Best Short Self-Publishing How-to Book	This simple guide is exactly that, the bare bones basics for those who don't want to wade through hundreds of pages. You can get more than three times the information for only twice the price in a book like Dan Poynter's The Self-Publishing Manual, but more is not always best for everyone. If you are the type of person who wants &quot;Just the facts&quot; this book could be your ideal introduction to self-publishing.	2001-07-27
US	50627786	R1ZFIL3EN84XMN	0435086936	788302793	The Career Novelist: A Literary Agent Offers Strategies for Success	Books	5	29	34	N	Y	An Enlightening Visit with a Literary Expert	I've read a number of books by agents, but none of them have focused on the needs, expectations, hopes, and mistakes of the fiction writer like this book does. Donald Maass is a triple publishing expert: a former editor, a published fiction author, and a successful literary agent. Reading the book, I felt like I had been introduced to my long lost uncle by marriage to my second cousin, who, upon learning of my interest in the publishing world, freely shared all his expertise. While dining at his favorite restaurant (my treat of course) he told me what really happens in the publishing world. How do publishers afford those astronomical advances I see in Publishers Weekly? How does he choose the query letters that make him want to see a manuscript? How do authors help, or more often, hurt their careers? Now I know. He also shares his formula for calculating when a published author can make the leap into full-time writing without undue fear of crashing back to earth and having to get a job at the local convenience store to meet the bills. The best non-fiction books educate while entertaining, and Maass' friendly, chatty style is the Madeira sauce on this highly satisfying, juicy slice of steak.	2001-07-24
US	50627786	RN8LNM25QBRU	0967059844	823604772	The Well-Fed Writer: Financial Self-Sufficiency As a Freelance Writer in Six Months or Less	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Inspiration on Your Book Shelf	Peter's book is great fun to read for anyone who is even casually considering the idea of writing for a living and making good money, fast. For those who are serious about becoming a freelance writer, this is the best book I've found. It covers all the nitty gritty details from how long it will take you to earn a reasonable income, develop a stable of clients, where to find them and how to replace them, how to handle potentially difficult situations, and whether or not you'll need to work outrageous hours (the answer is no - Peter believes in enjoying his life and thinks you should, too).<br />Even for the experienced freelancer, this book is one you'll want to read whenever you need be be reminded of prospecting ideas, solutions to particular problems, or desire a giant shot of inspiration after an unusually hard day.	2001-07-24
US	50627786	R2ZYPF6ZLM75C9	1884910211	887080954	The Joy of Writing Sex: A Guide for Fiction Writers	Books	5	25	26	N	Y	Applicable to Any Type of Scene	If you are writing modern fiction, the odds are you will include a sex scene somewhere in your story. The problem I see in most published fiction is that the sex is predictable, i.e. it's almost always fantastic. This could also be interpreted as boring, leading me to frequently skim over 2-5 pages searching for the point where the story starts again. Authors who strive diligently to avoid dead spaces anywhere else in their novels will let the action come to a dead halt while the characters get laid. Ms. Benedict shows you how to avoid this all-too-common problem. Just as some scenes in a story are located in a bar, along a street, or at a society party, some scenes happen in the bedroom (or kitchen, or back seat of a car), and these scenes can do everything a scene is supposed to do. They can move along the plot, reveal characterization, disclose an important piece of backstory, and/or up the conflict. This is why Ms. Benedict's advice can help all of your writing, especially when she asks you to explore your characters' attitude toward sex. What are their attitudes to everything else in the world? It's a great question to ask yourself each time you lead your characters into a new situation - they've got opinions and reasons for them! If your sex scenes are only sex, and you wish they were a lot more, I highly recommend this book. One caveat: the examples include gay sex as well as hetero, and this may be offensive to some readers.	2001-07-24
US	50627786	R2FZEN3ZBW15I0	0898799279	17052116	Elements of Fiction Writing - Characters & Viewpoint	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	Read This Book Again as You Grow as a Writer	Various truisms are bandied about as advice to writers. Make your characters sympathetic, but not boring. Rank your characters in importance and make sure they take their proper places in your story. Come up with original ideas. Pull your readers into the story - make them care! All wonderful suggestions, but how can you incorporate them into your stories? What makes a reader care? How can you evaluate your characters, and how do you change them? Card provides the answers. This is one of those books that I enjoy rereading because as I grow as a writer, I'm able to learn something new, something I didn't 'catch' the previous times through. Certainly it's the sort of book a writer could read after producing the first draft of a new story, and generate clear ideas on how to edit that draft into something much better.	2001-07-24
