US	50623941	R1CAZSXNWDNSQK	0268010463	599396287	God and Caesar: Personal Reflections on Politics and Religion (Erasmus Institute Books)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Personal or Practical Reflection?	I chose to read this book on the basis of its subtitle: \\"Personal Reflections on Politics and Religion\\" expecting a personal account. Rather, a practical account was offered such that, to my mind, the subtitle could be more accurately expressed \\"Practical Reflections on Politics and Religion.\\" The book is based on a lecture series and as a result is not a difficult book to read. Williams, by her own admission, is not a theologian, nor scholar but a politician. She claims the \\"authority of experience\\" for the right to make comments on the relationship between religion and politics. She embraces and is embraced by a political and an historical aspect of the institutional church, not its founder. \\"It seemed to me that, if I was to be a Christian, I should embraced Christianity in its strongest form. It was the huge claims and the huge demands made that drew me to the Church of Rome\\" (p. 6). In her embrace, I believe, she differs from the politician W E Gladstone who believed that politicians ought to be inspired and motivated by religious convictions. She does support the institutional Church, \\"warts and all\\" in addressing the social and global ills of our day. But her support appears to lack Gladstone's personal evangelical commitment to political activity. Her support of the Roman Church, however, does not exempt the Church from undertaking a critical self-reflection. I was not disappointed after reading the book for there are many significant insights clearly and appropriately expressed. Her highly practical insights helped me to become better informed about the relationship between church and state in a contemporary context. However, I remain no better informed about her personal understanding or personal  commitment which for me was the initial attraction of the book's subtitle.	2004-05-20
US	50623941	R15SNY4YGM5CQW	0268010463	599396287	God and Caesar: Personal Reflections on Politics and Religion (Erasmus Institute Books)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Personal or Practical Reflection?	I chose to read this book on the basis of its subtitle: \\"Personal Reflections on Politics and Religion\\" expecting a personal account. Rather, a practical account was offered such that, to my mind, the subtitle could be more accurately expressed \\"Practical Reflections on Politics and Religion.\\" The book is based on a lecture series and as a result is not a difficult book to read. Williams, by her own admission, is not a theologian, nor scholar but a politician. She claims the \\"authority of experience\\" for the right to make comments on the relationship between religion and politics. She embraces, and is embraced by, a political and an historical aspect of the institutional church, not its founder. \\"It seemed to me that, if I was to be a Christian, I should embraced Christianity in its strongest form. It was the huge claims and the huge demands made that drew me to the Church of Rome\\" (p. 6). In her embrace, I believe, she differs from the politician W E Gladstone who believed that politicians ought to be inspired and motivated by religious convictions. She does support the institutional Church, \\"warts and all\\" in addressing the social and global ills of our day. But her support appears to lack Gladstone's personal evangelical commitment to political activity. Her support of the Roman Church, however, does not exempt the Church from undertaking a critical self-reflection. I was not disappointed after reading the book for there are many significant insights clearly and appropriately expressed. Her highly practical insights helped me to become better informed about the relationship between church and state in a contemporary context. However, I remain no better informed about her personal understanding or personal  commitment which for me was the initial attraction of the book's subtitle.	2004-05-20
US	50623941	RE3HU7UDLWSDF	0754613399	919362005	Religion and Civil Society: Rethinking Public Religion in the Contemporary World (Religion, Culture and Society Series)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Double Challenge	This is a challenging book from two perspectives. It challenges our presumptions about the place of religion in the public sphere. And, it is a challenge to absorb and interpret the amount of critical information Herbert presents. The division of the book into two parts, Competing Theories and Case Studies is most helpful. The Case Studies illustrate and expand upon the arguments presented in Competing Theories. The book is coherently written and its arguments clearly stated. I found myself pausing, on more than a few occasions, and reflecting on the implications of Herbert's observations in my own geographical context: Canada. That Herbert's perspective is &quot;transcultural&quot; strengthens his presentation. Further, to my mind, Herbert's rethinking calls for an &quot;intellectual leap&quot;, on our part because if one is persuaded by his presentation one becomes committed to a new way of understanding relationships both public and private, individual and corporate. In short: &quot;The picture has exceeded the frame.&quot; I would not consider this a definitive work but a serious exploratory work which sets parameters for future exploration. I read this book as a professional theologian and found its philosophy on the place of religion in public life amenable to the development Christian revelation. This book will retain its academic value for religious researchers and theologians for years to come.	2003-08-26
US	50623941	R1TVVYMVHBGEHY	0754613321	919362005	Religion and Civil Society: Rethinking Public Religion in the Contemporary World (Religion, Culture and Society Series)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Double Challenge	This is a challenging book from two perspectives. It challenges our presumptions about the place of religion in the public sphere. And, it is a challenge to absorb and interpret the amount of critical information Herbert presents. The division of the book into two parts, Competing Theories and Case Studies is most helpful. The Case Studies illustrate and expand upon the arguments presented in Competing Theories. The book is coherently written and its arguments clearly stated. I found myself pausing, on more than a few occasions, and reflecting on the implications of Herbert's observations in my own geographical context: Canada. That Herbert's perspective is &quot;transcultural&quot; strengthens his presentation. Further, to my mind, Herbert's rethinking calls for an &quot;intellectual leap&quot;, on our part because if one is persuaded by his presentation one becomes committed to a new way of understanding relationships both public and private, individual and corporate. In short: &quot;The picture has exceeded the frame.&quot; I would not consider this a definitive work but a serious exploratory work which sets parameters for future exploration. I read this book as a professional theologian and found its philosophy on the place of religion in public life amenable to the development Christian revelation. This book will retain its academic value for religious researchers and theologians for years to come.	2003-08-26
US	50623941	R1OMGDF8KW1QI6	1853434043	356512080	Contemporary Perspectives on Psychotherapy and Homosexualities	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Thought-out Response	Shelley is the editor of this collection of essays. The Introduction to the collection and the essay that is his contribution forms the basis of this review. Shelley is an Adlerian psychoanalyst who proposes a fresh methodological approach to understanding the homosexual person. He suggests that an individual is not characterized by one understanding of homosexuality but rather is understood through a varieties of homosexualities. He recommends an abandonment of the traditional definition of homosexuality which seems to be an impediment to understanding the homosexual person in his or her environment. This would allow for the individuated and special needs of homosexual persons to be recognized by therapists in their professional approaches. He takes a stand against \\"reparative practices\\" by therapists and against those social institutions which perpetuate unhealthy pressures on homosexual individuals by accepting the uncriticized social perspective as the norm. In an insightful comment he criticizes affirmative therapy as a reaction to the illness model of homosexuality and proposes that a thought-out response to the person-in-community replace it. To Shelley's way of thinking affirmative therapy as understood by many practitioners is not in keeping with proposed developments in Adlerian psychology. The seven articles selected represent a number of points of view and are intended to allow the reader to make dialectical comparisons and stimulate debate, he says (p. 8). Given my limited understanding of Adlerian psychology, and then only from a theological perspective, Shelley's suggested re-interpretation of Abler's thought concerning the homosexual person appears convincing. As I see it, his overall argument strives towards understanding the person in a natural order with the intent of constructing a healthy psyche.	2003-01-24
US	50623941	R334BS63V8OR7P	093638462X	44444868	Christian Proficiency	Books	3	15	17	N	N	A Useful Prayer Book	Like his 'English Spirituality', this book, 'Christian Proficiency' is written for the English context but is capable of speaking to Christians everywhere. Thornton acknowledges that certain literary accommodations have been made for North American readers in the Morehouse-Gorham edition (1959). These accommodations do not alter the book's premises and this review is based on that edition. Thornton reverses the perspective of his writing in this book compared to his approach in 'Pastoral Theology: A Reorientation' (1958). 'Christian Proficiency' is addressed to the faithful laity, not to clergy and theological students. Thornton warns of a lay tendency to over-rate devotion in the Christian life which takes on the character of a particular age and culture. What is needed currently is a pastoral theology not a devotional theology. In typical English fashion, he writes: &quot;My assumption is that the faithful, the serious but perfectly 'ordinary' Christian to whom I write, does not want to be particularly 'pious' or 'devout' or even vaguely 'good': he wants to be efficient.&quot; This is truly a pastoral (practical) book for developing the spirituality of a Christian life. It is a prayer book, not a book on praying. Engaging and digesting the content of this book illustrates how secular and pseudo-prayerful our present Christian thinking has become. The book contains a valuable theological glossary which lists 200 entries succinctly and clearly.	2003-01-24
US	50623941	R1BYOXMBAFJHCT	093638431X	675448401	English Spirituality: An Outline of Ascetical Theology According to the English Pastoral Tradition	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Reclaiming a Forgotten Perspective	This book is written out of the English experience and for that reason should be read by American theologians and clergy. Thornton lives up to his promise and presents a practical pastoral approach to matters spiritual without an inordinate emphasis on the influence of psychology as is often present in American publications about spirituality and pastoral practice . Martin is honest and says that his book &quot;contains nothing very new, but I think it contains a good deal that is old enough to have been forgotten...&quot; (P. xiii). His claim arises after years of personal experience. This is important because he notes that the science-religion relationship, that developed in favour of the dominance of science, seems to be reversing. He writes that &quot; theology looks like becoming the only frame of reference into which current questions can be fitted&quot; (p. 7). He fits spiritual questions into a framework of an English School of spirituality within the diversity of Catholic Christianity. To address the spiritual needs of the twentieth century he pays attention to the biblical roots and early theological interpreters, especially English, of the Christian experience. It is a great help to the reader that Thornton explains how and why his interpretations depart from other authors who have written in this field. These have been addressed by other authors. Written, not as an academic text, but as a resource for the contemporary spiritual director, the books fulfils its purpose admirably. Finally, this is the same author who later, in 'Prayer: A New Encounter' (1972), criticizes and alters his original perspective from an academic theologian to embrace a pastoral-theological stance. His reasons for this are well worth knowing.	2003-01-24
US	50623941	R2ZMIWI58M38GA	1568331304	371670527	Passing the Keys: Modern Cardinals, Conclaves and the Election of the Next Pope	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A Narrative Lacking Insight	This book is written in a readable style which is probably due to the author's skills as a journalist. To my mind, the effort Burkle-Young makes at writing this narrative produces a product typical of the information age. This is a weakness as well as a strength depending on the reader's interest level and intent. The book seemed to supply more information than I knew what to do with. I found myself asking, &quot;so what?&quot; on more than one occasion and losing interest in the subject matter under discussion. The book probably would provide an entertaining read for the theologian but it does not seem to afford much theological insight. To my mind, the book has its place in the public forum of religious information. I have not placed this book on any bibliographies of theological courses I teach. Burkle-Young is correct when he writes in the Foreword that his book &quot;...is a narrative with a historical perspective, and should not be regarded as an academic work...&quot; --This text refers to the Hardcover edition.	2003-01-23
US	50623941	R3PG47RO3QA3TQ	0232524149	947917646	God Save the Queen: The Spiritual Dimension of Monarchy	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Theological Implications for Britain and Beyond	Ian Bradley invites us to think about the religious basis of the monarchy. He is faithful to this theme throughout the book. He speaks of recovery of the metaphysical imagination and \\"the revaluing of religion in contemporary Britain\\" (p.xix). His approach, however, has merit for revaluing (the Christian) religion outside Britain. In the chapters entitled, \\"Monarchy in the Old Testament\\" and \\"Monarchy in the New Testament\\", he offers a thorough treatment of the relationship to kingship of covenant spirituality with its roots in the scriptures. He makes the pertinent observation that \\"the kingdom theme in the New Testament has proved an even more problematic and controversial subject than that of monarchy in the Old testament\\" (p.25). To his credit he does not shy away from nor gloss over the problem areas in this relationship. Observations such that the visit of the magi places \\"no imperative on earthly rulers to surrender their crowns\\" and \\"Jesus does not reject the people's hailing of him as a king, but he does reject their expectation of what a king does\\" are typical of Bradley's insightful theological interpretation. He draws on a wide array of appropriate sources, academic and popular, but always with reference to his theme of relating spirituality and the British monarchy throughout the latter's history. As a theologian, I found his discussion about the spiritual significance to the Crown of Princess Diana's life and death enlightening and encouraging. From my perspective, living in Canada, he interprets her life and the public response to her death in a way that is not yet appreciated nor understood in North America. In contrast to Western postmodern self-centredness, I think that Bradley's assessment of the current debates about the monarchy are most informative, pertinent and significant. They offer a theological contribution to the discussion about the future role of the monarchy in Britain and on the world stage. Bradley notes that \\"theologically informedcontributions to the debate on the future of the monarchy are few and far between\\" (p.180). His observation that debates about the future of the monarchy in contemporary Britain being conducted \\"outside the churches and the university theology departments, and in overwhelmingly secular terms\\" (p. 181), reminds me of the remark by a North American theologian. \\"The theologians have moved increasingly into the secular academy, where they cannot use a church or even the church as an automatic reference group.\\" (Marty, M., 1980. North America: The empirical understanding of religion and theology, in Eliade, M & Tracey, D (eds), What is Religion? An Inquiry for Christian Theology. Concilium 136). With his book Bradley redresses the lack of theological appreciation of the monarchy to our benefit.	2003-01-23
US	50623941	R1FH9P4NGAF1MD	0887846033	598085235	Expanding Prison: The Crisis in Crime and Punishment and the Search for Alternatives	Books	4	0	0	N	N	JUSTICE AS PEACE MAKING	Cayley doubts that prisons are instruments of correction. Like all institutions they grow to a size which frustrates their original intention. To illustrate this he cites national (Canadian) and international examples of how prisons currently work. Cayley understands justice as peace making and incorporates into his arguments insights from critical thinkers whose notions are significant to prison reform. We are social beings prior to understanding ourselves as individuals, he notes, and suggests that a moral understanding of good and evil is necessary to obtain justice. He writes (p. 85) that \\"In a world without good, evil is secularized as crime.\\" and \\"Justice without a sense of the good is darkened.\\" Cayley offers excellent historical insights into the relationship between prison rehabilitation and Christianity that have implications for the future direction of the treatment of prisoners. The notion of 'truth as relational' (p. 323), which he attributes to Martin Buber, reveals a phenomenological understanding of justice. This understanding contrasts with the classical ideas of Aristotle and Aquinas which currently underpin concepts of justice. Anyone interested in the alternatives available for prison reform or the religious and pastoral care in prisons will find a wealth of information in Cayley's book.	2003-01-23
US	50623941	RU6TQFWRDQIUW	0670030023	445205425	Breaking Faith: THE POPE, THE PEOPLE, AND THE FATE OF CATHOLICISM	Books	4	1	4	N	N	More Than Mere Opinion	This book reports on the contemporary state of the institutional church. It includes the the author's own confessional statements which help us to understand his perspective and criticisms of the Roman Church. It is a good assessment of the Church without the sensational overtones which I have so often found in books written by journalists examining the Roman Catholic faith. Cornwell introduces the notions and issues that surfaced at the time of the so-called Modernist Crisis. He does so wisely and reveals that his personal convictions are in sympathy with the thinking of these theologians. This gives the work philosophical credibility as opposed to mere opinion. The following pasage, found on pp 215/216, is typical of the observations and insight Cornwell shares with the reader throughout the book. \\"Pluralist, multicultural societies are a fact, and Catholics have to live in such societies by according more than mere tolerance for the convictions of their fellow citizens. Afer all, Catholics expect the same respect of others. Moreover, how can the world avoid destroying itself if its religionists cannot find a way of living together in harmony?...But Christian theologians rightly object that theirs is a Trinitarian God, a God that essentially expresses the truth of creation and salvation, and which is profoundly distinct from that of the God of Israel, or of Islam, or the Gods of the Hindus, or Buddhism. All the same, brave attempts have been made by Catholic theologians to find a basis for genuine respect.\\" To my mind, in our time, a basis for such genuine respect may be found via an existential philosophy with roots in the thinking of the \\"modernist\\" theologians. I recommend this book to any serious philosopher or theologian.	2003-01-23
US	50623941	RAND7F5F9GIYU	0773523146	612796578	A History of Canadian Catholics (Mcgill-queen's Studies in the History of Religion)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	An Ecclesiastical History	Fay provides a good orientation within his subject matter for the reader and new student. Selecting from published materials he presents a chronology of the growth of the institutional Catholic presence in Canada by assessing, analyzing and interpreting of information in an ecclesiastical framework. He says that \\"many colleagues and students have let me know that an outline history of the Canadian Catholicism is needed now\\" (p.ix). The title, A History of Canadian Catholics, however, led me to expect a disclosure of some personal thoughts or motivations of the individuals who have left their mark on Canadian Catholic Church history. Rather, I discovered their views to have been presented through an ecclesiastical filter. To my mind, the book could have been entitled, An Ecclesiastical History of Catholics in Canada, since it is the corporate identity that provides the threat that links his subject matter. Fay has made choices in presenting his material and has remained faithful to his theme. He has chosen to cite individuals whose contributions or comments impinge directly on a corporate influence of the Church. His book does meet a current need in understanding Canadian Catholicism and I will recommend it to students I teach.	2003-01-23
US	50623941	R2E5F3HOSTKM6I	1551454793	147734608	Prayers to Share - Year B	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A HANDY LITURGICAL AID	These are truly wholesome and appropriate &quot;responsive&quot; prayers that engage the pray-ers. This liturgical aid does not aim to persuade, convince, or instruct but rather presupposes a degree of faith commitment on the part of the congregation. These prayers help to name and give voice to the congregation's pre-existing convictions arising out of the Christian experience. The prayers, composed with an eye to the contemporary religious climate, are truly &quot;about us&quot; and our beliefs as a worshipping body of Christ's faithful. Sparks has included a thematic index along with the Hebrew and New Testament indexes. This makes for easy reference to the Church's year and its biblically-centred liturgical life. His &quot;Confession Prayers&quot; remind me of the options for an &quot;examination of conscience&quot; that appear in the various penitential services in my own R.C. tradition. Sparks writes concerning his Confession Prayers: &quot;I have tended not to use the traditional 'miserable offender' approach but to offer affirmations, reminders, encouragement, and questions instead.&quot;  To my mind, this is handy liturgical resource that will bear fruit in a parish, congregation, and civil institution where worship services are conducted.	2002-11-07
US	50623941	R28TXVBVCAB7LG	1551454793	147734608	Prayers to Share - Year B	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A HANDY LITURGICAL AID	These are truly wholesome and appropriate &quot;responsive&quot; prayers that engage the pray-ers. This liturgical aid does not aim to persuade, convince, or instruct but rather presupposes a degree of faith commitment on the part of the congregation. These prayers help to name and give voice to the congregation's pre-existing convictions arising out of the Christian experience. The prayers, composed with an eye to the contemporary religious climate, are truly &quot;about us&quot; and our beliefs as a worshipping body of Christ's faithful. Sparks has included a thematic index along with the Hebrew and New Testament indexes. This makes for easy reference to the Church's year and its biblically-centred liturgical life. His &quot;Confession Prayers&quot; remind me of the options for an &quot;examination of conscience&quot; that appear in the various penitential services in my own R.C. tradition. Sparks writes concerning his Confession Prayers: &quot;I have tended not to use the traditional 'miserable offender' approach but to offer affirmations, reminders, encouragement, and questions instead.&quot; To my mind, this is handy liturgical resource that will bear fruit in a parish, congregation, and civil institution where worship services are conducted.	2002-11-07
US	50623941	R3JT8TQ7ZVE6XL	0888872550	589693901	A Place Called Morning	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Sacrament without ceremony	Anne's is a sacred story for our ordinary lives. She invites us to encounter the &quot;truth of the story&quot; for ourselves. &quot;And perhaps you, if you are adept at reading between the lines, at sorting out what really happened, from what might have happened, from what I wish had happened&quot;, are words that truly reflect her character as I remember it. Having worked with Anne I can say, with some degree of certainty, that Anne is truly in the book. But whether it is the contemporary Anne or the Anne of a different time, I am not sure. This requires further discernment. If sacrament is opportunity spoken through ordinary events that bring us to a vivid awareness to God's presence then this book is sacramental. There is no feigned ceremony, ritual or &quot;other-worldly&quot; mystery here but ordinary things and relationships that bear sacramental grace. However, this is not a religious novel. There are no miraculous events here, no sudden conversions, nor &quot;coming to the faith&quot;.  Rather, there is just the reality of an invitation to live one's ordinary life in God's truth.  Anne weaves a good tale of mystery amid mundane experience. There are surprises and revelations in this story which, upon reflection, will not be that separated from the reader's own experience. Rich in description, Anne gives us insight into the spiritual life of her characters without becoming intrusive or voyeuristic. In short, her story is a discovery of the sacred within the ordinary at a place called &quot;Morning.&quot;	2002-08-27
US	50623941	R2T3BBBF9H74EW	0836913639	163084072	Stoic, Christian, and Humanist (Essay index reprint series)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Clarification: not confusion	Murray makes this philosophical inquiry a pleasant and insightful experience for the reader. His clear expression and precise use of language accounts for this. He does not take up countless pages with explanation but manages to identify clearly, from the beginning of his investigation, the points at issue. This book arises out of \\"special reading and study\\" and the \\"by-products of a long life in which I have had almost constantly in the back of my mind, as a half-conscious preoccupation\\" (p.7). This little book is an excellent resource to the average serious and somewhat philosophical thinker who desires something more than sketchy platitudes in developing a deeper understanding of the relationship among Stoic, Christian and Humanist ways of thinking. I found the book challenged the suppositions and presuppositions of my own convictions without being negatively critical in its approach. The book discusses issues of importance to mankind, Murray tells us, and he conducts his investigation of these issues with fresh philosophical insight. This is one philosophical book that clarifies more than confuses.	2002-07-16
US	50623941	R7I3X7PO14986	0670030023	445205425	Breaking Faith: THE POPE, THE PEOPLE, AND THE FATE OF CATHOLICISM	Books	4	1	3	N	N	More than mere opinion	This book reports on the contemporary state of the institutional church. It includes the the author&#8217;s own confessional statements which help us to understand his perspective and criticisms of the Roman Church. It is a good assessment of the Church without the sensational overtones which I have so often found in books written by journalists examining the Roman Catholic faith. Cornwell introduces the notions and issues that surfaced at the time of the so-called Modernist Crisis. He does so wisely and reveals that his personal convictions are in sympathy with the thinking of these theologians. This gives the work philosophical credibility as opposed to mere opinion. The following pasage, found on pp 215/216, is typical of the observations and insight Cornwell shares with the reader throughout the book. &#8220;Pluralist, multicultural societies are a fact, and Catholics have to live in such societies by according more than mere tolerance for the convictions of their fellow citizens. Afer all, Catholics expect the same respect of others. Moreover, how can the world avoid destroying itself if its religionists cannot find a way of living together in harmony?...But Christian theologians rightly object that theirs is a Trinitarian God, a God that essentially expresses the truth of creation and salvation, and which is profoundly distinct from that of the God of Israel, or of Islam, or the Gods of the Hindus, or Buddhism. All the same, brave attempts have been made by Catholic theologians to find a basis for genuine respect.&#8221; To my mind, in our time, a basis for such genuine respect may be found via an existential philosophy with roots in the thinking of the &#8220;modernist&#8221; theologians. I recommend this book to any serious philosopher or theologian.	2002-07-15
US	50623941	R2KALGPRTNM5BN	1581120605	864815810	The Process of the Cosmos: Philosophical and Theology and Cosmology	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Process or Response?	This book is not an easy read and I found myself having to re-read certain passages so I would not get lost in its argument. Kelly presents his case well. It is presented from the point of view of Natural Theology as he clearly states. Initially, for me, the book held more promise than it delivered. I concluded, however, that my disappointment is probably due to my particular understanding of theology and not Kelly's arguments or academic effort. I do not contest Kelly's thesis that \\"Natural Theology can now provide an answer to the question as to the reason for the existence of man and the world.\\" (...) He understands Natural Theology to be distinct from revelation (p.24). He initiates his investigation as a speculative activity but concludes it as an existential activity. In this he perpetuates a dualistic way of thinking. He writes: \\"When our contemporary understanding of the world is applied to the raw material of revelation, the essence [speculative term] of revelation will no doubt be maintained but the expression [existential term] of revelation may be quite different\\" (p.125). A way to overcome this dualism, to my mind, is to consider the role of one's response in existential theological interpretation. (...) These musings notwithstanding, Kelly's thesis is a challenging read well worth the time and effort expended in doing it justice.	2002-07-03
US	50623941	R1FZMYWYUR6QU	0521622468	561627349	Religion in Prison: 'Equal Rites' in a Multi-Faith Society	Books	4	0	0	N	N	SOCIOLOGICAL THOUGHT WITH THEOLOGICAL INSIGHT	The authors are sociologists with theological insight. To my mind, as a theologian, this is the strength of the book. Beckford and Gilliat present a clear understanding of muti-faith and multicultural as terms which define their area of investigation within the context of the United Kingdom. But their inquiry is very useful to prison chaplaincy services outside the U.K. as well as to government ministries of health and social services.  To my mind, it is significant that the authors discuss religious activity in terms of &quot;religious and pastoral care&quot; throughout the book except in Chapter 7, Prison Chaplaincy in the United States, where they discuss &quot;religious and spiritual care.&quot; The introduction of a &quot;spiritual&quot; notion seems to be a North American phenomenon. Within an historical perspective the authors remind us of the unique Christian contribution to role of chaplaincy in a prison setting. They suggest, however, that future models of governance will need to take into account an increasingly multi-faith and multicultural context in setting terms of reference for religious and spiritual care in prisons. I would make the same argument for all government regulated health facilities. Their last chapter, Conclusion: State, Church and Diversity, they make the interesting observation that non-Christian religious leaders appreciate the efforts made by the established Church of England on their behalf. They write that &quot;the evidence from our study shows that leading representatives of some faith traditions would like the opportunity to speak for themselves and to be heard in the corridors of power without wishing to appear ungrateful for all offers of Anglican support or mediation. For the same reason it may be true that members of other faith communities prefer to live in a country where at least one religious organisation is established in law, even if it does not represent their particular faith, rather than  to be citizens of a secularstate&quot; (p. 218).  In a loosely parallel context Bradley, in his book, &quot;God Save the Queen: The Spiritual Dimensions of the Monarchy&quot;, has noted a similar attitude. &quot;It is interesting that just as some of the most enthusiastic proponents of church establishment are to be found among the non-Christian faith communities...so the supreme governorship has found some of its most fervent defenders among non-Anglicans...&quot; (Bradley, Ian. 2002:177).	2002-07-02
US	50623941	R35M3T97V77VAB	0829813330	598085235	The Expanding Prison: The Crisis in Crime and Punishment and the Search for Alternatives	Books	4	3	3	N	N	JUSTICE AS PEACE MAKING	Cayley doubts that prisons are instruments of correction. Like all institutions they grow to a size which frustrates their original intention. To illustrate this he cites national (Canadian) and international examples of how prisons currently work. Cayley understands justice as peace making and incorporates into his arguments insights from critical thinkers whose notions are significant to prison reform.  We are social beings prior to understanding ourselves as individuals, he notes, and suggests that a moral understanding of good and evil is necessary to obtain justice. He writes (p. 85) that \\"In a world without good, evil is secularized as crime.\\" and \\"Justice without a sense of the good is darkened.\\" Cayley offers excellent historical insights into the relationship between prison rehabilitation and Christianity that have implications for the future direction of the treatment of prisoners. The notion of  'truth as relational' (p. 323), which he attributes to Martin Buber, reveals a phenomenological understanding of justice. This understanding contrasts with the classical ideas of Aristotle and Aquinas which currently underpin concepts of justice. Anyone interested in the alternatives available for prison reform or the religious and pastoral care in prisons will find a wealth of information in Cayley's book.	2002-07-02
US	50623941	R3OWJGTXRF4KBS	0773523146	612796578	A History of Canadian Catholics (Mcgill-queen's Studies in the History of Religion)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	An Ecclesiastical History	Fay provides a good orientation within his subject matter for the reader and new student. Selecting from published materials he presents a chronology of the growth of the institutional Catholic presence in Canada by assessing, analyzing and interpreting of information in an ecclesiastical framework. He says that \\"many colleagues and students have let me know that an outline history of the Canadian Catholicism is needed now\\" (p.ix). The title, A History of Canadian Catholics, however, led me to expect a disclosure of some personal thoughts or motivations of the individuals who have left their mark on Canadian Catholic Church history. Rather, I discovered their views to have been presented through an ecclesiastical filter. To my mind, the book could have been entitled, An Ecclesiastical History of Catholics in Canada, since it is the corporate identity that provides the threat that links his subject matter. Fay has made choices in presenting his material and has remained faithful to his theme. He has chosen to cite individuals whose contributions or comments impinge directly on a corporate influence of the Church. His book does meet a current need in understanding Canadian Catholicism and I will recommend it to students I teach.	2002-06-18
US	50623941	R330NBI6VOF7ZU	0312206828	498838348	The Whys of a Philosophical Scrivener	Books	4	8	8	N	N	An Encyclopedic Approach	Gardner does what he says. He accounts for the &quot;whys&quot; of his beliefs. As he does this he presents to his readers what is familiar to their own thought evoking insight on their part. It ought to be understood, however, that he writes in broad strokes and ideas are expressed in a manner that, at times, lacks precision. By reflecting on a wide range of philosphers and artists he presents us with material we thought we understood. His efforts amount to an attempt at preserving the integrity of scholastic thinking, or a contemporary derivation of it, in the postmodern world. Gardner presents us with a North American understanding of a European approach to philosophical thinking. There is a lot of breadth to his work but, from my perspective, little depth. I finished the book with the sense that when all was said and done Gardener, as a 'philosophical scrivener', was on the outside looking in. However, I do recommend the book for Gardner's encyclopedic approach to his material. It is worth noting that Gardner views William James as a particularly insighful thinker.	2002-05-29
US	50623941	RYJ7ZHUYEKTX4	1568331304	371670527	Passing the Keys: Modern Cardinals, Conclaves and the Election of the Next Pope	Books	3	2	5	N	N	A Narrative Lacking Theological Insight	This book is written in a readable style which is probably due to the author's skills as a journalist. To my mind, the effort Burkle-Young makes at writing this narrative produces a product typical of the information age. This is a weakness as well as a strength depending on the reader's interest level and intent. The book seemed to supply more information than I knew what to do with. I found myself asking, \\"so what?\\" on more than one occasion and losing interest in the subject matter under discussion. The book probably would provide an entertaining read for the theologian but it does not seem to afford much theological insight. To my mind, the book has its place in the public forum of religious information. I have not placed this book on any bibliographies of theological courses I teach. Burkle-Young is correct when he writes in the Foreword that his book \\"...is a narrative with a historical perspective, and should not be regarded as an academic work...\\"	2002-05-15
US	50623941	RP87T5Z1I9GHV	1903402646	806378080	Margaret: The Last Real Princess	Books	1	23	24	N	N	A portrait lacking insight	I hesitated in deciding to review this book. Is it worth drawing the public's attention to a book that is, at best, descriptive journalism which promises more than it delivers? Only after reading the book did I acquaint myself with the author's journalistic reputation which helped explain some of my original disappointment with the book. As an academic, I cannot recommend this book to any serious reader interested in matters concerning the Windsor family. The book lacks proper endnotes and citations. Botham rarely identifies his sources but chooses convincing descriptive labels that suggest authoritative individuals with first hand knowledge. I am disappointed in Botham's \\"soap opera\\" treatment of a topic that is of genuine interest to many in the British Commonwealth. In short, save your money!	2002-04-28
US	50623941	R3RY3HAFSDV0XZ	1853434043	356512080	Contemporary Perspectives on Psychotherapy and Homosexualities	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Thought-out  Response	Shelley is the editor of this collection of essays. The Introduction to the collection and the essay that is his contribution forms the basis of this review. Shelley is an Adlerian psychoanalyst who proposes a fresh methodological approach to understanding the homosexual person. He suggests that an individual is not characterized by one understanding of homosexuality but rather is understood through a varieties of homosexualities. He recommends an abandonment of the traditional definition of homosexuality which seems to be an impediment to understanding the homosexual person in his or her environment. This would allow for the individuated and special needs of homosexual persons to be recognized by therapists in their professional approaches. He takes a stand against  &quot;reparative practices&quot; by therapists and against those social institutions which perpetuate unhealthy pressures on homosexual individuals by accepting the uncriticized social perspective as the norm. In an insightful comment he criticizes affirmative therapy as a reaction to the illness model of homosexuality and proposes that a thought-out response to the person-in-community replace it. To Shelley's way of thinking affirmative therapy as understood by many practitioners is not in keeping with proposed developments in Adlerian psychology. The seven articles selected represent a number of points of view and are intended to allow the reader to make dialectical comparisons and stimulate debate, he says (p. 8). Given my limited understanding of Adlerian psychology, and then only from a theological perspective, Shelley's suggested re-interpretation of Abler's thought concerning the homosexual person appears convincing. As I see it, his overall argument strives towards understanding the person in a natural order with the intent of constructing a healthy psyche.	2002-01-09
US	50623941	R1V4O2QCREI7UH	0340192224	671416114	My God: Reappraisal of Normal Religious Experience	Books	4	2	2	N	N	&quot;My God&quot; is &quot;Our God&quot;	This is a truly &quot;personal&quot; book. Thornton tells us: &quot;I have collaborated with nobody and discussed it with nobody. Nobody has even read the proofs and offered valuable suggestions&quot; (p.9). In this, his eleventh book, he shares the personal fruits of an ordered religious life. This is not a book on apologetics, doctrine or dogma. It is &quot;faith speaking to faith&quot;. To my mind, the greatest contribution in the book is Thornton's suggestion on how to overcome the fear that the Church seems to have about ordinary religious experience. This book, with its roots deep in personal, not private, religious experience, is a valuable aid in understanding contemporary religious life. Professional theologians will gain insight from Thornton's existential distinctions in understanding the presence of God and pastors will appreciate his practical introduction to a &quot;panentheistic&quot; pastoral theology which moves away from an &quot;intrusive&quot; speculative or substantive theology. Readers of Thornton's earlier works will recognize how they have influenced the understanding of the experiences shared with the reader in this work.	2001-12-30
US	50623941	RH1OI7OUR9GKM	0814625045	531924008	The Changing Face of the Priesthood: A Reflection on the Priest's Crisis of Soul	Books	4	14	23	N	N	Internal Hallmarks and Christian Identity	Cozzens wrote: \\"The very face of the priesthood - the external cues and customs, the internal hallmarks of identity and function - seemed to be changing...\\" (P. ix). I read this book seeking these \\"internal hallmarks\\" and found them most clearly expressed in Part I. In Part I Cozzens defines his topic for reflection, that is, the human transformation necessary for a priest of Jesus Christ, and then he turns his attention to external cues and customs current in the U. S. Catholic Church. Only after reading Cozzens' book (twice) did I read the customer reviews. To my mind, the reviews written by DelMonico, irisharsh, Merryman and Zee grasped the deeper significance of Cozzens' book for the spiritual life. This is, in fact, primarily a book on the deeper concept of spirituality, not a book on the sociological or psychological insights of the spiritual life. The enduring value of this book is that Part I touches on the human psyche and pneuma and effectively introduces the principle of  \\"gratia praesupponit naturam\\" (grace builds on nature). In this context, I found it helpful to read Cozzens' book in light of James Forsyth's (1997) work, \\"Faith and Human Transformation: A Dialogue Between Psychology and Theology\\", which thoroughly elaborates Aquinas's second principle \\"gratia perficit naturam\\" (grace perfects nature). Cozzens' book is about the Catholic Church in the United States which provides the sociological and psychological context for his external cues. However, to my mind, the book's fundamental concern is the appropriate understanding of spirituality of the part of the individual seeking to discern the internal hallmarks of Christian identity.	2001-11-14
US	50623941	R1D3CU5NLLPFFJ	0891303758	441957816	The prophetic theology of George Tyrrell (American Academy of Religion studies in religion ; no. 22)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	True to his word	Wells says: \\"I have tried to develop an understanding of the theology of George Tyrrell that is historically sensitive but re-evaluated from a post-Vatican II position \\" (P.4). If I have understood Wells correctly, the post-Vatican II position from which he evaluates Tyrrell is an existential one. In this exciting presentation of Tyrrell's thought Wells has succeeded in identifying the prophetic aspect of Tyrrell's character. Many scholastic investigations of the writings of significant theologians are undertaken from the perspective of the historical context or crisis that precipitated their works. Wells has managed to present an investigation that illustrates Tyrrell's historical significance and reveals his prophetic character which transcends the historical context. Wells writes: \\"...it needs to be said at the outset that my concern centers wholly on Tyrrell; where questions of relationship between his thought and contemporary views arise, my sole intention remains that of eliciting the proper significance of the Irish priest's ideas\\" (P. 5). As an existentialist, Tyrrell wrote with the intention of finding himself and the journey of this volatile personality parallels the journeys of many of Christ's faithful today. In our age of heightened individuality, which often turns to narcissistic individualism, Tyrrell's journey into self-conscious understanding of himself and the Church, which he claims to have never left, is accurately documented by Wells. Tyrrell's individuality is that of the theologian. It is not the individualism of the philosopher. Wells is faithful to the title of his book and helps us to understand that \\"What is of concern is that Tyrrell's role as an almost prescient formulator of things to come be recognized\\" (P. 42). This is not a book which is written to address, in popular fashion, the existential angst among Christian believers today. Rather, it is a thoughtful and richly rewarding intellectual appreciation of the prophetic legacy of onewho suffered through the formulation and re-formulation of his ideas for the good of the individual and of the Church. Wells, in re-evaluating Tyrrell from a post-Vatican II perspective, shows how Tyrrell's thought transcends the Victorian theological constraints of his time.	2001-11-09
US	50623941	R1RICYWKBIU14X	0915762129	176953374	Letters from a Modernist: The Letters of George Tyrrell to Wilfrid Ward, 1893-1908	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Qualified &quot;Must Read&quot;	To Tyrrell's letters Weaver has written annotations which are exceptionally detailed and prove, to my way of thinking, to be the most valuable part of this book for the historian and anyone interested in specifics of the relationship between Tyrrell and Ward. In her introduction she says that the demise of the relationship between Tyrrell and Ward \\"helps us to understand more clearly why late nineteenth century Catholic intellectuals were drawn to one another and to a common dream of a more expansive church\\" (p. xiii). Her presentation acknowledges Newman's role in the Modernist controversy as reflected through Tyrrell's correspondence. This book is an enlightening chronicle, albeit a one-sided chronicle, since Ward's letters are no longer extant. However, while I was left informed by Tyrrell's letters as presented by Weaver I was not as passionately moved by this book as I have been by other books on Tyrrell. Nevertheless, Weaver allows Tyrrell's letters to speak for themselves without any annoying overlay of opinionated interpretation. That consideration on her part is a joy in itself. Given all the material available on Tyrrell and Moderinsm, this book is not a \\"must read\\", yet, one is poorer in choosing not to read it.	2001-11-07
US	50623941	R19BP8H9OHCPVI	0816425507	868649292	The Future of Belief: Theism in a World Come of Age.	Books	3	4	5	N	N	An heuristic undertaking	As an undergraduate in 1969 I was warned that this book was a difficult read. It was true then and it is true today. Dewart does not engage in any \\"pop\\" presentation of ideas but rather leads the reader on a rigorously exciting examination of an evolution in critical thinking.  Dewart intends this book for those interested in \\"the problem of integrating Christian theistic belief with the everyday experience of contemporary man\\" (p.7). He is concerned mainly with the problem of everyday experience as understood within the Roman Catholic perspective at the time of the Second Vatican Council. The context in which Dewart writes reveals the issues and passions of the day. This is not a limitation. Although, not intended as a book on pastoral theology I recommend that the last chapter be read as such. \\"The Development of Christian Theism\\" has insights on self-conscious development of the Christian understanding of God that should be of interest to any critically thinking pastor of our day and age. Our conception of God is challenged by secular thought which fails to appreciate the Hellenist background to much doctrine and dogma. Dewart has presented, from this reviewer's perspective, an excellent academic understanding of the problem. He is able to help one to think one's way out of that Hellenist cultural setting and remain faithful to the truth it has expressed. Not to be overlooked are the copious footnotes in the text which indicate the seriousness and depth of Dewart's thinking. They are of exceptional use in helping the contemporary individual in understanding the evolutionary characteristic of interpretive thought. Further, these notes provide a much needed corrective to the misunderstood and misrepresented classical ideas of antiquity often encountered popular religious books. I would not recommend the book for the average reader, nor the lazy reader. In fact, this is a painful book, not so much to read, but to put into practice. It calls the reader to a future self-confidence based on a self-conscious awareness of who we are and what we have the potential to become. Understanding Vatican II as a Christian watershed, Dewart writes: \\"We now stand on a very uncertain terrain.  We are justified in exploring it solely for the attempt's possible heuristic value\\" (p. 173).lf-confidence based on a self-conscious awareness of who we are and what we have the potential to become. Understanding Vatican II as a Christian watershed, Dewart writes: \\"We now stand on a very uncertain terrain.  We are justified in exploring it solely for the attempt's possible heuristic value\\" (p. 173).	2001-11-06
US	50623941	RD0LM25PC498X	0824518411	595607035	Religion in Exile: A Spiritual Homecoming	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Psychological or Theological Homecoming?	O'Murchu states that he seeks to befriend religious questions rather than seek answers to them and, in fact, he does just that. Not much by way of an answer is provided. He offers a critique of the underlying assumptions to religious and spiritual issues which he has identified as problematic for the individual seeking a spiritual home, or an understanding of a world in which to be &quot;at home.&quot; His is a phenomenological approach that presents current religious and spiritual issues in the popular vocabulary of religious critique. I can identify with his critique. However, doubt I can agree with all of his interpretations. Agreement among academics is a perpetual problem. For theologians who read about religious issues treated by competent individuals in other disciplines agreement seems particularly problematic. Although theologically trained, O'Murchu thinks about religious issues from a perspective more properly psychological than theological. This is not necessarily an undesirable approach but a theologian needs to be cautious and not accept psychological thinking as theological thinking. As I understand him, O'Murchu speaks more of the psyche than of the pneuma. The psychological perspective of the book makes this a good &quot;self-help&quot; resource for those troubled or curious minds who desire more than a shallow presentation or description of spiritual or religious issues. O'Murch says: &quot;The need to talk things out is the pastoral context where possibilities begin to unfold&quot;(p.198). Issues are &quot;talked out&quot; in the book. But as I read I found myself asking: &quot;So what?&quot; and &quot;Yes, but how is change to happen?&quot; Thus, while I have no reservation about his description about returning home, I am disappointed to find no suggested direction on &quot;how to return home.&quot; I suggest that theologians could benefit from reading this psychological work.	2001-11-04
US	50623941	R3UR3U3Y5ZJ5P2	1581120605	864815810	The Process of the Cosmos: Philosophical and Theology and Cosmology	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Process or Response?	This book is not an easy read and I found myself having to re-read certain passages so I would not get lost in its argument. Kelly presents his case well. It is presented from the point of view of Natural Theology as he clearly states. Initially, for me, the book held more promise than it delivered. I concluded, however, that my disappointment is probably due to my understanding of theology and not Kelly's arguments or academic effort. I do not contest Kelly's thesis that \\"Natural Theology can now provide an answer to the question as to the reason for the existence of man and the world.\\" But does this answer suffice? Can we expect another reason should circumstances change, or should our experience not bear out \\"that the world can be understood as a process involving the possible self-creation of an entity like God.\\" These questions arise from my uneasiness about the conclusion Kelly draws from his investigation. He understands Natural Theology to be distinct from revelation (p.24). He initiates his investigation as a speculative activity but concludes it as an existential activity thus preserving a form of dualism in his thought. He writes: \\"When our contemporary understanding of the world is applied to the raw material of revelation, the essence [speculative term] of revelation will no doubt be maintained but the expression [existential term] of revelation may be quite different\\" (p.125).  One way to overcome this dualism, to my mind, is to consider response in the existential theological interpretation. A responsive interpretation is a unified act which incorporates speculation and expression, be it to a set of circumstances or God's grace. In fact, need we preserve the distinction between Natural Theology (Philosophy) and Revealed Theology? In his Catholicism, (study edition), Richard McBrien (1981:113) notes: \\"It is not clear, for example, whether one can be both a philosopher and a theologian at the same time, or whether such a choice has to be made at all.\\" If no such choice is made, one wonders what becomes of Kelly's concluding statement: \\"What will need to be considered in a future work is the extent to which this thesis is consistent with revelation\\" (p. 125). These remarks notwithstanding, Kelly's thesis is a challenging read worthy of the time and effort needed to do it justice.	2001-10-29
US	50623941	R2SLWIPVCE1S8F	1581120605	864815810	The Process of the Cosmos: Philosophical and Theology and Cosmology	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Process or Response?	This book is not an easy read and I found myself having to re-read certain passages so I would not get lost in its argument. Kelly presents his case well. It is presented from the point of view of Natural Theology as he clearly states. Initially, for me, the book held more promise than it delivered. I concluded, however, that my disappointment is probably due to my particular understanding of theology and not Kelly's arguments or academic effort. I do not contest Kelly's thesis that \\"Natural Theology can now provide an answer to the question as to the reason for the existence of man and the world.\\" (...) He understands Natural Theology to be distinct from revelation (p.24). He initiates his investigation as a speculative activity but concludes it as an existential activity. In this he perpetuates a dualistic way of thinking. He writes: \\"When our contemporary understanding of the world is applied to the raw material of revelation, the essence [speculative term] of revelation will no doubt be maintained but the expression [existential term] of revelation may be quite different\\" (p.125). A way to overcome this dualism, to my mind, is to consider the role of one's response in existential theological interpretation. (...) These musings notwithstanding, Kelly's thesis is a challenging read well worth the time and effort expended in doing it justice.	2001-10-29
