US	50623976	RESDWZ8CJVXAD	1582795746	670341624	The New Webster's Concise Dictionary of the English Language: Encyclopedic Edition	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An Affordable, Concise Dictionary	This Webster version is an up-to-date concise reference edition of the English language. Webster's dictionary is compiled with over 85,000 entries with about 1,000 illustrations, including maps, charts and tables. It provides thousands of illustrative quotations to help with word meanings, notes on troublesome and confusing words and their usage, plus concise word roots and etymologies. Other features include clear and precise definitions, synonyms, an authoritative guide to punctuation and tables of Weights and Measures.<br />Also in addition are sixteen (16) encyclopedic supplements: abbreviations, gazetteer, grammar and usage, the library research paper, Greek and Latin elements, foreign words and phrases, given names, business law, business math, business letter writing, wills and estate planning, perpetual calendar, word processing glossary, metrics glossary, units of measurement-conversion factors, weights and measures. It makes an excellent, indispensable reference tool for the entire family household, school and for the office.	2003-09-30
US	50623976	R1KSTRTL0HCAB1	1582970130	748936059	How to Write and Illustrate Children's Books and Get Them Published	Books	4	37	39	N	N	Good Start for Illustrators	Treld Pelkey Bicknell's 'How to Write and Illustrate Children's Books' is really more for illustrators of children's books then the writer's aspect of the book. It's a good source for that particular purpose. If you want a more indepth instruction on the children's book writing process I suggest Barbara Seuling's 'How to Write a Children's Book and Get It Published.' Bicknell's book is valuable for it's comprehensive topics and illustrations. The first part include topics of constructing a story from beginning to end (planning and plotting, story structure, dialogue). There's a section on getting to know your reader and choosing the right words. Plus other informative information like looking into the world of children and the influence of new writing. The second part is devoted to illustration and discusses getting to know your audience, the types of picture books (board, pop-ups, zig-zag, flap, half-flap, holes, pictorial consequences, long text, minimal text, wordless, picture strips). It combines pictures with interpeting a text and using your imagination. Building the porfolio follows in the creation process. The last part is devoted to getting published. Starting from making the book, preparing the roughs, the right style for the right job. The author tops it off with factual writing and researching, Fad & Novelty books and finding the right publisher. To find what's in the market I also suggest the 'Children's Book Writer and Illustrator's Market Book' as a directory in that field to find the right genre of which publisher to contact. This book is a handy source like the other two I mentioned.	2003-09-14
US	50623976	RI3O92VB48YOO	0553562231	266241078	Prince of Darkness: Antichrist And New World Order	Books	5	38	44	N	N	The Truth of Our Future Revealed	If you never read prophecy teacher Grant R. Jeffrey's 'Messiah,' 'Apocalypse,' 'Prince of Darkness' and Armageddon,' you got to read 'Prince of Darkness' first. It's the most important book you'll ever read in this present day. It contains everything you need to know of the biblical prophecies that reveal the secret globalist conspiracy and the current events surrounding it. From the beginning struggle of Planet Earth. Satan has attempted to rule earth as a \\"god\\" and destroy what is good and the Holy people of God. Since the time of his fall, Satan's diabolical plan is to destroy the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ from the time of the Great Flood to Christ's crucifixion. That's why it's impossible to fully appreciate or understand Western culture and history without a tremendous role played by the Holy Scriptures.<br />Amazingly, 'Prince of Darkness' was published in 1994 before some present day events happened. Since then most things mentioned in this book has already come to past! If you need to find answers about what's wrong with the world today-this is a must. Jeffrey explains about the ancient writings about the prince of darkness and his plot to destroy mankind. Jeffrey explains the meaning of the prophecies from Revelation, Daniel, Ezekiel, Zechariah and Isaiah and how they relate to our present time scenerio. Thirty-eight astonishing prophecies fullfilled sinced 1948 point to the imminent return of the Messiah-Jesus Christ. Research that reveals in depth and detail from bible prophecy to shocking truth behind today's headlines:<br />* The rise of the Roman Empire is already implemented in the \\"1992 Plan\\" of the European Union another deception of the globalist plans to enslave people in the one world government. This is headed by the Tri-Lateral Commission.<br />* The Council of Foreign Relations and the Tri-Lateral Commission key players in the move towards abandonment of national sovereignty that will lead to the AntiChrist and one world government. Along with this will come the economic and stock market crash ushered in by financial conspiracies.<br />* Implementation in technological electronic surveillance where phone calls are monitored, and plans for a world currency is produced in the United States of America.<br />* The rising threat of big government putting assaults on our privacy and personal freedom in ways you could never imagine by using every means possible in their sophisticated art of deception.<br />* Rise of Anti-Semitism and Christian presecution. Propaganda forged by Russian secret police with an attempt of an Inquisition against Christian and Jews.<br />* The rise of Russian imperialism and their deception to the world to disarmament fraud, and the secret agenda behind the PLO-Israeli peace agreement and Arab control and elimination of Israel.<br />* Illegal Arab boycott of Israel since 1948 still being operated today in an effort to gain access to Arab oil. The unneccessary dependency of North America on cheap Middle East oil sparked the rise of Arab terrorism, hatred of Israel, Desert Storm and the present Iraqi War. All due to the wrong deliberate choices the governments made. (*also revealed in Jeffrey's 'War on Terror: Unfolding Bible Prophecy' on video).<br />All of this and more was predicted before our present day. Most of the prophecies mentioned in this book have already come to past! This is an astounding book. If you need to find answers about the coming events of current issues this will help in your search for truth.with this will come the economic and stock market crash ushered in by financial conspiracies.<BR>* Implementation in technological electronic surveillance where phone calls are monitored, and plans for a world currency is produced in the United States of America.<BR>* The rising threat of big government putting assaults on our privacy and personal freedom in ways you could never imagine by using every means possible in their sophisticated art of deception. <BR>* Rise of Anti-Semitism and Christian presecution. Propaganda forged by Russian secret police with an attempt of an Inquisition against Christian and Jews.<BR>* The rise of Russian imperialism and their deception to the world to disarmament fraud, and the secret agenda behind the PLO-Israeli peace agreement and Arab control and elimination of Israel.<BR>* Illegal Arab boycott of Israel since 1948 still being operated today in an effort to gain access to Arab oil. The unneccessary dependency of North America on cheap Middle East oil sparked the rise of Arab terrorism, hatred of Israel, Desert Storm and the present Iraqi War. All due to the wrong deliberate choices the governments made. (*also revealed in Jeffrey's 'War on Terror: Unfolding Bible Prophecy' on video).<BR>All of this and more was predicted before our present day. Most of the prophecies mentioned in this book have already come to past! This is an astounding book. If you need to find answers about the coming events of current issues this will help in your search for truth.	2003-09-10
US	50623976	R2Y8XUIL9ZCTO7	0824985168	160498097	The Littlest Angel	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Classic Story of Love, Giving and Tender Humor	'The Littlest Angel' by Charles Tazewell is one of the ten best-selling children's stories of all time. There  has been several published editions of this beautiful classic, but none compares to the wonderful award-winning artistry of Paul Micich. Each illustration done in alkyd on canvas. It's the classic story about a little boy angel homesick for earth that was created by Tazewell as a backup for a Screen Guild production crisis. Well, the crisis never materialized, but 'The Littlest Angel' did. The first performance was narrated by Helen Hayes for the \\"Manhattan at Midnight\\" Christmas radio show. In 1946, it was released in book form. It was also recorded on Decca records. The magazine, Coronet published it in 1949 and later produced the first film version. Johnny Whitaker (Family Affair) starred as this little angel who couldn't stay out of trouble in the celestial city in the 1969 Hallmark Hall of Fame production. The TV show featured Fred Gwynne (The Munsters, Car 54 Where Are You?), Cab Calloway and E.G. Marshall. 'The Littlest Angel' was in it's 35th print at the time of Tazewell's death in 1972. Time magazine referred to it as the \\"international classic.\\"<br />The story goes when this littlest angel arrived in the presence of the Gatekeeper he was four years and six months old. This littlest angel pretend that he wasn't impressed with his new unearthly home. It was that moment on heavenly peace wasn't quite the same. All the heavenly host didn't think he looked like an angel. His tiny halo tarnished and slipping down over his eyes or letting it fall from his head so it would roll down the golden street so he could chase it. Even his wings weren't just right. He's directed to the angel of peace. Dreading his ordeal he goes but he hears merry singing. He meets the Understanding Angel. The caring angel knew that the littlest angel was homesick and all the things he missed on earth. He asked the littlest angel what would make him happy. The cherub said it was a box he kept under his bed back home. The Understanding Angel did what he wished. From that day, the littlest angel changed for the best. It came to pass that Jesus, the Son of God was born in Bethlehem. All the glad tidings abound in paradise. All the angels prepared gifts for the Christ child. The littlest angel pondered what could he give the holy infant? His box, he thought. But it was shabby and ugly gift. But it was too late, God's hand moved over the other gifts to his little box. All the things the littlest angel ever loved on earth were there. Then God spoke. Of all the angels, I find that this small box pleases me most. It's contents are of the earth and of men and my Son is born to be king of both. These are the things my Son will love and cherish.....Suddenly the box glowed and radiantly brillant as it rose to the heavens. There it shone on the night of miracles the light reflecting the centuries by it's splendor, the lowly gift of the Littlest Angel. What all men call forever, \\"the Shining Star of Bethlehem.\\"a box he kept under his bed back home. The Understanding Angel did what he wished. From that day, the littlest angel changed for the best. It came to pass that Jesus, the Son of God was born in Bethlehem. All the glad tidings abound in paradise. All the angels prepared gifts for the Christ child. The littlest angel pondered what could he give the holy infant? His box, he thought. But it was shabby and ugly gift. But it was too late, God's hand moved over the other gifts to his little box. All the things the littlest angel ever loved on earth were there. Then God spoke. Of all the angels, I find that this small box pleases me most. It's contents are of the earth and of men and my Son is born to be king of both. These are the things my Son will love and cherish.....Suddenly the box glowed and radiantly brillant as it rose to the heavens. There it shone on the night of miracles the light reflecting the centuries by it's splendor, the lowly gift of the Littlest Angel. What all men call forever, \\"the Shining Star of Bethlehem.\\"	2003-09-10
US	50623976	R1EA45RP46AV03	0913573868	580137710	The Works of Josephus: Complete and Unabridged, New Updated Edition	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Essential Ancient Church History	Flavius Josephus was a first century Jewish historian who recorded Life in Galilee at the time of the Gospels of Christ. It's an excellent research source of insight on Jewish thought, background and ancient history. Josephus' documentation helps one to understand the world of Jesus and the Apostles. A Loeb numbering system makes it easy to locate passages referred to in other reference works. Each period set in an interval of 3,833 years. Josephus draws on his own experiences and the writings and knowledge of other historians. It's a complete chronology of the antiquities of the Jews.<br />The histories are laid out according to the ancient scriptures, from the Creation to the Jews departure out of Babylon. It consists of a list of ancient testmonies and records of the Old Testament in comparsion to Josephus' histories. These also list the Wars of the Jews from the evils of Antiochus Epiphanes, Herod the Great and Nero to the Besiege of Jerusalem, The Great Extremity, the Taking of Jerusalem and the Sedition of the Jews at Cyrene. This makes an excellent indepth study tool alongside the Holy Bible regarding the ancient Jewish history as witnessed by this foremost authority of his day.	2003-08-29
US	50623976	R10HGF04AM77HH	0781430313	736304069	Little Rose of Sharon	Books	5	16	17	N	N	A Beautiful Book about Self-Sacrifice	The 'Little Rose of Sharon' is a lovely, poignant story about a rose who grew in a field of other flowers and trees. Nearby the rose was a fig tree where a family of doves lived. It was a time of when God's creation was of pure innocence and glory. The rose admired her beauty and hope the Creator loved her lovely red petals and sweet fragrance. The Creator smiled on the little flower. One day a terrible storm came. The little rose swayed in the wind, but she survived. But the little dove egg that was in the fig tree fell to the ground by the rose. Night came and it was cold. The rose thinking that if the baby dove was unprotected it would die. So the lovely rose shed it's beautiful red petals over the baby dove egg to keep it warm from the cold night. The parents of the baby dove saw the movement underneath the red petals and out came their newborn. The little rose was happy she did a wonderful thing. The Creator saw what the Little Rose of Sharon done and told her, \\"My Son will one day do the same for all mankind. He will give of Himself and sacrifice His love just as you have done.\\" A wonderful story about the great lesson of love and self-sacrifice that surely will be appreciated by all ages alike. The illustrations are beautifully painted in a pastel-type renderings. Exquisite!	2003-08-22
US	50623976	R2VZBG9JTBE6D5	0060006293	51838870	Home to Harmony	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Harmony-a Place Close to Your Hometown &amp; Heart	If you ever read Sherwood Anderson's 'Winesburg, Ohio' or tuned-in to Public Radio for a night of Garrison Kiellor's 'Prairie Home Companion,' you would certainly take a liking to Philip Gulley's down-home tales in 'Home to Harmony.' Gulley takes us back to a time when we were all young and small being with loved ones-in a small town, sitting on the front porch after supper, watching the sun go down on another day. The sky in beautiful hue of orange and pink. You can hear the crickets serenade. In the distance you can hear a neighbor's door shut. The porch is a time of the conversation-listening story after story. Gulley takes us the again into every season of the year where life shimmers at every corner. Gulley reflects on his own life experiences some told by his grandfather with all the warmth and humor in each story. Imagine a tiny town where you bearly notice on a road atlas. Gulley portrays himself as Sam Gardner, a Quaker pastor of Harmony Friends Meeting. Sam's life begins as he's chose by the folks of Harmony after the passing of their former pastor. Sam speaks of his first year leading his hometown church.<br />From there the reader and Sam join in some of the most heartwarming and funniest characters and situations you'll ever know. Makes you wish there was a Harmony near you. Experience life and adventure in small-town revival and the laughable incongruity of Billy Bundle, former wrestling champ billed as the &quot;World's Shortest Evangelist.&quot; Get to know every cherished and sometimes oddball letters printed in Bob Miles Jr.'s Harmony Herald's controversial &quot;Bobservation Post,&quot; much like the Reader's forum in some local newspaper you know of. When the day slows down visit the Legal Grounds Coffee Cup where a painting of the Last Supper hangs on the wall behind the buffet. Just think, Jesus and His disciples gazing over the salad bar. There's always some fish story to fry at the Coffee Cup. Namely the swordfish that appeared in Vinny Toricelli's pond-referred to the Loch Ness of Harmony. Sam's best friend from childhood, Uly Grant a direct descendant of Ulysses S. Grant whose son settled in Harmony, married a Quaker and opened the Grant Hardware Emporium. According to some historians, whether it was all true or not-we leave that to your opinion. Each place in Harmony town square has it's own reminiscences through every page. Each one entertaining to bring back some old memories of your old hometown. Reminds one of simple and ordinary moments of life that are treasured sacred gifts of faith, hope and love we have in family and friends. If you want to settle into a gentle, heartwarming, faith-inspired world and escape the rat race-then come home to Harmony. Here you'll meet colorful characters, hiliarious mishaps and a moral to encourage you. If you love 'Home to Harmony' you'll equally be smitten with 'Just Shy of Harmony,' 'Signs and Wonders: a Novel,' 'Christmas in Harmony,' 'Hometown Tales,' 'Front Porch Tales' and 'For Everything a Season.'elli's pond-referred to the Loch Ness of Harmony. Sam's best friend from childhood, Uly Grant a direct descendant of Ulysses S. Grant whose son settled in Harmony, married a Quaker and opened the Grant Hardware Emporium. According to some historians, whether it was all true or not-we leave that to your opinion. Each place in Harmony town square has it's own reminiscences through every page. Each one entertaining to bring back some old memories of your old hometown. Reminds one of simple and ordinary moments of life that are treasured sacred gifts of faith, hope and love we have in family and friends. If you want to settle into a gentle, heartwarming, faith-inspired world and escape the rat race-then come home to Harmony. Here you'll meet colorful characters, hiliarious mishaps and a moral to encourage you. If you love 'Home to Harmony' you'll equally be smitten with 'Just Shy of Harmony,' 'Signs and Wonders: a Novel,' 'Christmas in Harmony,' 'Hometown Tales,' 'Front Porch Tales' and 'For Everything a Season.'	2003-08-22
US	50623976	R3MEYIDI7YRUHQ	0399234535	385356742	The Jazzy Alphabet	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Jazzy Alphabet�Hip to the Jive, Cool Cats!	Sherry Shahan's 'The Jazzy Alphabet' is the hippest A-B-C ever to hit the streets. This alphabet is really cookin' hot or cool. It's the only boogie-boppin', singin' and rompin' family of letters around. The text is rhythmic and with it in the blues jargon. Parents you may have to tell your little ones what some of those jazzy words are, like: cuttin' the rug, jazzy jingle, juba and jive and mad-dog tooter. Each page has items that the children can identify by the matching letter. The muscially-inclined orchestra will get your toes tapping in no time.<br />Here's a sample:<br />Abazaba alley cat<br />and boogie-woogie bebop a boogaloo.<br />Bim-bam blues!<br />Cool cats cuttin' the rug with<br />a clip-clop clappin' happenin'.<br />D's on the drums,<br />down and dirty.<br />\\"Dig it! Dig it!\\"<br />This may sound racy to some for a little child. Someone has to explain to me what down and dirty means? Just to give some parents a clear judgement of the lingo in the book. Other than that it's a cool book. A nice collection for folks like me who loves musically-inclined alphabet books. The illustrations done by Mary Thelen are lively and whimiscal collages made with silk-screen Color-Aid papers and gouache-painted textures. The illustrations react with the music text as they dance across the page with that little Razzmatazz! It's the cat's MEOW!	2003-08-22
US	50623976	R2E9DB9D34ZOFW	0062050702	250045191	Tomatoes from Mars	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Dr. Schtickle and a Schpitzer Saves the Day!	The day the 'Tomatoes from Mars' invaded Minneapolis was something to be reckoned with. These giant trouble-making invaders has the whole planet painted red. Now, that's what I call painting the town red :)! The President at the White House call on all scientists to find a solution to stop those bad tomatoes. Will nothing stop them? Until Dr. Schtickle (who is an amazing likeness to Albert Einstein) calls the President with an idea to keep the tomatoes at bay. When the peace messages don't work, the President has other plans to blast the menacing over-sized veggies. When Dr. Schtickle asked for a second chance to stop them, the President gives him just 24 hours.<br /><br />In the meantime, Dr. Schtickle is so nervous with so little time to act on a plan. His niece Sally suggests he'd eat something to help him think better. Sally goes makes him a salad in the kitchen. From out of the sky the tomatoes make their way to Dr. Schtickle's apartment. Oh, my what will the good Dr. and his niece Sally do? Make a salad? He gets an idea to grab a schpitzer and fill it with a secret weapon. The secret?-olive oil, vinegar and lots of herbs! The fate of the world rest in the hands of Dr. Schtickle and a schpitzer? He schpitzed those giant red menaces into a salad frenzy. Sending them back into outer space. In the end Dr. Schtickle gets a red badge of courage and declares that there are onion rings around Saturn. Arthur Yorinks writes really humorous children's books a kind-of Dr. Seuss meets The Far Side. Yorinks has also written 'Louie the Fish' and 'Christmas in July.' If you like to make your kids laugh. You're sure to find a tickle bone with Yorinks' books.	2003-08-22
US	50623976	R3PB4Y9Z9BTTRS	0345320239	896078468	Splinter of the Mind's Eye (Star Wars)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Granddaddy of the Star Wars Novels	Alan Dean Foster's 'Splinter of the Mind's Eye' is the very first Star Wars sci-fi novels to come out after Lucas' Star Wars: A New Hope in 1978. How come I know is that I got it when it first come out that year. It an entertaining read with Luke Skywalker and Princess Leia and the aid of the droids, C3PO and R2D2 while on a mission to enlist Rebel recruits become marooned on an uncharted swamp planet. They must go to search for the Kaiburr crystal on the hostile planet Mimban. The crystal is said to have power to anyone who possesses it make them invincible with the Force. Will they find it secret hiding place before it's in the hands of the evil Empire and Darth Vader?<br /><br />The confrontation of the two heros with Darth Vader gives one an idea of future story lines in the upcoming movie, 'The Empire Strikes Back.' At the time it was to earlier to tell if this was a mediocre tale compared to future SW novels. But since this was the first it was a great start as Lucas would put it a further adventure. One thing about this novel it doesn't include Han Solo or Chewbacca. So Luke and Leia seem to do pretty well on their own in this vintage adventure tale in the Star Wars galaxy. Since this was the novel that started deserves it's place in the SW novel hall-of-fame. Who knows if it weren't for Foster penning the first one would there still be the SW novels today?	2003-08-22
US	50623976	R28LPQKMK1CQ56	0689851480	980923260	Snoopy: Flying Ace to the Rescue (Peanuts Ready-to-Read Series, Level 2)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Read Along with Snoopy and the Peanuts Gang	This can be purchased as a 6-Vol. set from Ready-to-Read. 'Snoopy: Flying Ace to the Rescue' is included with 'Kick the Football,' 'Charlie Brown!,' 'It's Time for School Charlie Brown,' 'It's a Homerun Charlie Brown,' 'Friends Forever Snoopy' and 'Take a Hike!, Snoopy.' Each one are Level 2 for ages 4-6, and features short chapters with a variety of sentence structures to help children to learn to read. These are based on the classic comicstrip \\"Peanuts\\" of Charles M. Schulz.	2003-08-21
US	50623976	R16CNRFDSRU4G7	157673613X	51838870	Home to Harmony	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Harmony-a Place Close to Your Hometown &amp; Heart	If you ever read Sherwood Anderson's 'Winesburg, Ohio' or tuned-in to Public Radio for a night of Garrison Kiellor's 'Prairie Home Companion,' you would certainly take a liking to Philip Gulley's down-home tales in 'Home to Harmony.' Gulley takes us back to a time when we were all young and small being with loved ones-in a small town, sitting on the front porch after supper, watching the sun go down on another day. The sky in beautiful hue of orange and pink. You can hear the crickets serenade. In the distance you can hear a neighbor's door shut. The porch is a time of the conversation-listening story after story. Gulley takes us the again into every season of the year where life shimmers at every corner. Gulley reflects on his own life experiences some told by his grandfather with all the warmth and humor in each story. Imagine a tiny town where you bearly notice on a road atlas. Gulley portrays himself as Sam Gardner, a Quaker pastor of Harmony Friends Meeting. Sam's life begins as he's chose by the folks of Harmony after the passing of their former pastor. Sam speaks of his first year leading his hometown church.<br /><br /> From there the reader and Sam join in some of the most heartwarming and funniest characters and situations you'll ever know. Makes you wish there was a Harmony near you. Experience life and adventure in small-town revival and the laughable incongruity of Billy Bundle, former wrestling champ billed as the &quot;World's Shortest Evangelist.&quot; Get to know every cherished and sometimes oddball letters printed in Bob Miles Jr.'s Harmony Herald's controversial &quot;Bobservation Post,&quot; much like the Reader's forum in some local newspaper you know of. When the day slows down visit the Legal Grounds Coffee Cup where a painting of the Last Supper hangs on the wall behind the buffet. Just think, Jesus and His disciples gazing over the salad bar. There's always some fish story to fry at the Coffee Cup. Namely the swordfish that appeared in Vinny Toricelli's pond-referred to the Loch Ness of Harmony. Sam's best friend from childhood, Uly Grant a direct descendant of Ulysses S. Grant whose son settled in Harmony, married a Quaker and opened the Grant Hardware Emporium. According to some historians, whether it was all true or not-we leave that to your opinion. Each place in Harmony town square has it's own reminiscences through every page. Each one entertaining to bring back some old memories of your old hometown. Reminds one of simple and ordinary moments of life that are treasured sacred gifts of faith, hope and love we have in family and friends. If you want to settle into a gentle, heartwarming, faith-inspired world and escape the rat race-then come home to Harmony. Here you'll meet colorful characters, hiliarious mishaps and a moral to encourage you. If you love 'Home to Harmony' you'll equally be smitten with 'Just Shy of Harmony,' 'Signs and Wonders: a Novel,' 'Christmas in Harmony,' 'Hometown Tales,' 'Front Porch Tales' and 'For Everything a Season.'nny Toricelli's pond-referred to the Loch Ness of Harmony. Sam's best friend from childhood, Uly Grant a direct descendant of Ulysses S. Grant whose son settled in Harmony, married a Quaker and opened the Grant Hardware Emporium. According to some historians, whether it was all true or not-we leave that to your opinion. Each place in Harmony town square has it's own reminiscences through every page. Each one entertaining to bring back some old memories of your old hometown. Reminds one of simple and ordinary moments of life that are treasured sacred gifts of faith, hope and love we have in family and friends. If you want to settle into a gentle, heartwarming, faith-inspired world and escape the rat race-then come home to Harmony. Here you'll meet colorful characters, hiliarious mishaps and a moral to encourage you. If you love 'Home to Harmony' you'll equally be smitten with 'Just Shy of Harmony,' 'Signs and Wonders: a Novel,' 'Christmas in Harmony,' 'Hometown Tales,' 'Front Porch Tales' and 'For Everything a Season.'	2003-08-14
US	50623976	R1WWBOFJRLQQPQ	0345320239	896078468	Splinter of the Mind's Eye (Star Wars)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Granddaddy of the Star Wars Novels	Alan Dean Foster's 'Splinter of the Mind's Eye' is the very first Star Wars sci-fi novels to come out after Lucas' Star Wars: A New Hope in 1978. How come I know is that I got it when it first come out that year. It an entertaining read with Luke Skywalker and Princess Leia and the aid of the droids, C3PO and R2D2 while on a mission to enlist Rebel recruits become marooned on an uncharted swamp planet. They must go to search for the Kaiburr crystal on the hostile planet Mimban. The crystal is said to have power to anyone who possesses it make them invincible with the Force. Will they find it secret hiding place before it's in the hands of the evil Empire and Darth Vader?<BR><br /><BR>The confrontation of the two heros with Darth Vader gives one an idea of future story lines in the upcoming movie, 'The Empire Strikes Back.' At the time it was to earlier to tell if this was a mediocre tale compared to future SW novels. But since this was the first it was a great start as Lucas would put it a further adventure. One thing about this novel it doesn't include Han Solo or Chewbacca. So Luke and Leia seem to do pretty well on their own in this vintage adventure tale in the Star Wars galaxy. Since this was the novel that started deserves it's place in the SW novel hall-of-fame. Who knows if it weren't for Foster penning the first one, would there still be the SW novels today?	2003-08-14
US	50623976	RR4FP47HN1F0M	0689851499	980923260	Snoopy: Flying Ace to the Rescue (Peanuts Ready-To-Read)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Read Along with Snoopy and the Peanuts Gang	This can be purchased as a 6-Vol. set from Ready-to-Read. 'Snoopy: Flying Ace to the Rescue' is included with 'Kick the Football,' 'Charlie Brown!,' 'It's Time for School Charlie Brown,' 'It's a Homerun Charlie Brown,' 'Friends Forever Snoopy' and 'Take a Hike!, Snoopy.' Each one are Level 2 for ages 4-6, and features short chapters with a variety of sentence structures to help children to learn to read. These are based on the classic comicstrip \\"Peanuts\\" of Charles M. Schulz.	2003-08-14
US	50623976	R3LY2JIEALT52Z	0743201027	292105143	Learning Joy from Dogs Without Collars : A Memoir	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Homeless finds a home	Seeing is believing, or in this case---reading, as the adage goes that relates to the remarkable story of one such lady who in my opinion beats Frank McCourt's 'Angela's Ashes.' Don't get me wrong about McCourt's memoir of the Irish poor, but Lauralee Summer's oddly titled 'Learning Joy from Dogs Without Collars' has an extraordinary flair all it's own. When Lauralee Summer was at the age to enter college she never knew her life would make the newpapers and make radio airwaves nationwide. The headlines would read \\"Homeless to Harvard\\" and she even got interviews with the Boston Globe and other prestigious newspapers. When she was asked to make a network TV appearance, during the interview she was pressed for time, the host gave her only less than a minute to reply to the question: What was it like to be homeless? The short-moment media experience of her life in a nutshell prompted her to write the memoir.<br /><br />Summer's reveals in her memoir of a fatherless, nomadic-type life who lived with her mother who was known very little of being employed, eccentric---but loving and protective of her daughter. Summer and her mom were always on the move to one state or another. Life was far from easy of living in dreary, and even dangerous homeless shelters and delapidated welfare houses. They didn't own a car or a bank account and what little money they had wasn't enough for food or clothing. The sort of schooling Summer had she obtained here and there. And her joy came from learning to read and her love of books when she was a small child. It wasn't until she reached high school when she found the mentors she needed and a love for wrestling where she was accepted on the competitive all-male team! This was the time in life, Summer was able to move into her own acceptance. This would later build her foundation into the priviledged walls of Harvard. It was when Summer won a wrestling scholarship to Harvard, she was in the limelight of the press media of her unique story. Summer had come a long way from poverty and neglect, but everything paid off in the end. For everyone it always does in some way. Summer found her place in the world and made her own home. By constructing her life from the life of the streets and her Harvard education she is a mentor who paints a window of the dark, isolated and discriminating world of women and children in poverty. The house that Summer built was the one of a honest, courageous and compassionate heart who has found joy from dogs without collars.Summer had come a long way from poverty and neglect, but everything paid off in the end. For everyone it always does in some way. Summer found her place in the world and made her own home. By constructing her life from the life of the streets and her Harvard education she is a mentor who paints a window of the dark, isolated and discriminating world of women and children in poverty. The house that Summer built was the one of a honest, courageous and compassionate heart who has found joy from dogs without collars.	2003-08-01
US	50623976	R2XKNA7AJ5NGM2	0375404031	295818442	The Endurance: Shackleton's Legendary Antarctic Expedition	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Last Great Adventure of the Heroic Age	There's lots of books written on the subject of Shackleton's extraordinary journey to the Antarctic. None really captures all the vividness and resilience of Caroline Alexander's, 'The Endurance: Shackleton's Legendary Antarctic Expedition.' She presents the astonishing work of Australian photographer Frank Hurley whose never-before-published visual record of the adventure recreates the terrible beauty of the Antarctic, the destruction of the ship Endurance and the heroic crew's daily struggle to stay alive with the miraculous, inspiring leadership of Sir Ernest Shackleton. The survival of Hurley's awesome images are scarcely less miraculous. The original glass plate negatives are excellently reproduced. They were stored in sealed canisters that survived months of ice floes, in open boat of the polar seas and buried in the snows of a rocky outcrop called Elephant Island. In the final footage of the expedition Hurley had to abandon his professional equipment and with a pocket camera and three rolls of Kodak film captured some of the most unforgettable images of the thrilling struggle. The expedition began in August 1914 before the outbreak of the first World War. Renowned explorer Ernest Shackleton and a crew of twenty-seven set sail on thier ship the &quot;ENDURANCE&quot; for the South Atlantic from England in quest for the last unclaimed prize in history: the first crossing on foot of the Antarctic interior.<br /><br /> It was by 1915 the men sailed into the frozen waters of the Weddell Sea where the Endurance became trapped in the icy floes and further ice conditions brought the Endurance to a halt. With no dangerous beasts or indigenous natives to tackle the harsh conditions of a savage Antarctic would put to the test the limits of these heroic men for a long, grueling 22 months. Beginning in 1914 and ending in 1917 the Endurance expedition is said to be the last in the Heroic Age of polar expedition. Most is owed to Shackleton's greatness in leadership and insane suffering of his earlier Antarctic experiences. Shackleton was the son of a physician, born near Ballitore, Co. Kildare, Ireland, lived briefly in Dublin as a child before his family moved permanently to England. At age sixteen soon began his life in the navy with romantic ambition took to exploration that appealed to his aspiration. Leading up to the fateful expedition, Shackleton had acquired the use of sixty-nine Canadian sledging dogs to aid in the journey. The dogs were not huskies but mixed collection of big dogs. These tough, brave animals helped the men across the icy terrain to their goal-the South Pole. Hurley writes of them in his book, 'Argonauts of the South.' Sadly, as the years of the expediton grew harsh the toll not only weaken the men but their canine companions. When food was scarce the men had to make grisly accommodations for their survival. Some of the members kept diaries of these unpleasant experiences. Every page you will hold your breathe to what will happen next to the end of the successful rescue by the &quot;Yelcho&quot;-not a life lost and yet been through Hell. This was an excellent and thrilling story that will probably never happen again in our lifetime as one of the last greatest adventures.ane suffering of his earlier Antarctic experiences. Shackleton was the son of a physician, born near Ballitore, Co. Kildare, Ireland, lived briefly in Dublin as a child before his family moved permanently to England. At age sixteen soon began his life in the navy with romantic ambition took to exploration that appealed to his aspiration. Leading up to the fateful expedition, Shackleton had acquired the use of sixty-nine Canadian sledging dogs to aid in the journey. The dogs were not huskies but mixed collection of big dogs. These tough, brave animals helped the men across the icy terrain to their goal-the South Pole. Hurley writes of them in his book, 'Argonauts of the South.' Sadly, as the years of the expediton grew harsh the toll not only weaken the men but their canine companions. When food was scarce the men had to make grisly accommodations for their survival. Some of the members kept diaries of these unpleasant experiences. Every page you will hold your breathe to what will happen next to the end of the successful rescue by the &quot;Yelcho&quot;-not a life lost and yet been through Hell. This was an excellent and thrilling story that will probably never happen again in our lifetime as one of the last greatest adventures.	2003-07-30
US	50623976	R103YWX13EIAF9	080542489X	170361684	Jesus, the One and Only	Books	5	28	31	N	N	The Savior Longs to be Close to You	Have you ever looked at Jesus Christ in a way much deeper than in the scriptures? A fire that lights up your soul. Such a romance with the Lord as if you have truly known him and walked with him. You have an open invitation to be part of it. 'Jesus One and Only' is that intimate look at the life of Christ. Beth Moore interweaves her own experiences with the Gospel of Luke to give you more brand new insights of the One who is the greatest best friend that you'll ever have. You can hear God speak to you in Beth's words, his caring, loving words to get you to fall in love with Jesus of Nazareth. Walk with him on the dusty roads of Israel, listen to him on a hillside teaching, encounter Him at the dinner table with sinners, or walks on the raging waves and calms the storm . Like the ragamuffin band of followers some 2,000 years ago, you will not be the same. As you read you will you come to know just how much He longs to be close to you. Moore is a wonderful and God-gifted writer. And she makes the gentle, loving Savior so irresistable who couldn't be changed after reading this. It's a much to read all her books. I recommend 'Things Pondered' and 'To Live is Christ.' She's truly one blessed writer, public speaker and teacher. Like to know more about her work? Visit-BethMoore.org.	2003-07-30
US	50623976	REWNZ7FDHLJ9P	1578566525	187356661	One Holy Fire: Let the Spirit Ignite Your Soul	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Be Ignited	Nicky Cruz author of 'Run Baby Run' and whose life was subject of the motion picture 'The Cross and the Switchblade' (from the title book by David Wilkerson) has a new book that will set your soul afire. 'One Holy Fire' is such a book with never-before-published stories from his ministry that will make your heart quake and explode your imagination. Cruz shares dramatic stories of physical, emotional and spiritual healing. Thousands have come to Christ as a result of the Spirit working his life. Cruz explores spiritual promises regarding the Holy Spirit's work and what it means to \\"Walk in the Spirit.\\" 'One Holy Fire' will inspire you to live according to the Spirit's guidance. After reading and applying what purpose the Spirit has for you, you will experience new energy as the Spirit of God works in your life. This book has so much anointed power, that it's sure to change you how you live your life. If you've searching to be set on fire for the fulfillment of God's joy let 'One Holy Fire' ignite the flame of your deepest desire. I recommend this highly.	2003-07-29
US	50623976	R1TIOTNG2V95QG	1582970068	34103678	Write Your Heart Out: Exploring & Expressing What Matters to You	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Get into the Heart of Writing	Rebecca McClanahan shows you how to turn your personal experiences, ideas and feelings into stories, essays, poems and memoirs. She gets you to release your inner self and just simply 'Write Your Heart Out.' As you read McClanahan helps you learn to write deeply, honestly and imaginatively about important people, events and emotions in your life, and set you on a path of dramatic work of art and self-discovery. When you're done you have purge all the cobwebs out of your system and let all your creative energy flow onto the page. She gives you the courage to explore and experience the things what matters to you. Everything that you write in your journal is the basis to public writing. McClanahan prepares you for that writing process. This book gives one inspiration of finding new ways of looking at the way they see things in the world, writing more descriptively and improve on their technique. It's great for a beginner just getting started or someone who need encouragement to writing better.	2003-07-29
US	50623976	RCOOVNSW9K4W0	0385502966	253012727	Zig: The Autiobiography of Zig Ziglar	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Zig Makes A Big Difference	If you ever need an inspirational help of great success in life then I would recommend Zig Ziglar. Ziglar is author of best-seller, 'I'll See You At The Top' and many other motivational books, has helped thousands improve their lives to achieve that success in every aspect of living. As you read his auto-biography you'll learn about his remarkable story how he beat the odds and applied it to the teachings of Jesus Christ. You will learn to take the next step in your plan and keep God's plan at the center of your plans just as Zig did. His approach is a down-home, wholesome manner with the business savvy of a wise, honest salesman. Most of what he learn of being successful and the importance of networking with honest and wise mentors. The first part of the book tells of his early life and the family that shaped his destiny. In his early adult years he was hard-working and used his knowledge to make money and there were times he made financial mistakes as a result of foolish decisions. This was a time God wasn't a part of his life where his life had no meaning or purpose. The last part of the book, is about his change in life when he reflected back on the moral values in his early childhood and his mother. He then gave his life to Christ. He then found his purpose as a public speaker. From then on instead of his self-centered ambition he gave it all to God. And Zig has been successful ever since. Like Norman Vincent Peale, Zig applied biblical principles to the goals he has with the plans God manifest in the center of his life. Zig's secret is never quit, have faith in God and a whole lotta love. He's a mentor you can trust with a solution. Wish there were more like Zig.	2003-07-29
US	50623976	R157SEVSHT68N9	1882593413	547459977	Crowded Land of Liberty: Solving America's Immigration Crisis	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Right on the Nose of Those Overwhelming Masses	For a number of years now the U.S. government has abused the extension of allowing Immigrants to enter the United States. 'Crowded Land of Liberty: Solving America's Immigration Crisis' is an excellent book on this subject. Author Dirk Chase Eldredge does a fine job in examining the way pro-immigration enthusiasts extend new waves to unassimilated aliens streaming into the country. We are reminded of clich&eacute;s that \\"this is a land of immigrants\\" only to a degree. The true origin of the founders of the original 13 Colonies were very much alike coming from Christian Europe, especially from British Isles, France and Germany. The flood of third world immigrants with the help of multinational corporation, arrive with very low economic and educational levels. They keep their native languages and take longer to assimilate into American culture and send back wages to their families residing in their home country.<br /><br />The book examines how the dimensions of immigration growth and how it has contributed to a very serious major crisis facing the United States. The fact that what passes for American has ceased to be American people. Now, America is a state and government, it being a nation is a thing of the past. Even under the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 those who sought reduction of immigration made a compromise with opposing forces in a foolish bargain only to create more illegal \\"chain\\" immigration and mass amnesty. To eliminate this problem the U.S. government needs to look into these immigration policies and revise the Immigration Act. With this out of control and if they continue at this rate the United States will end in disaster. With the trend in states like California being 52 percent Third World and Texas having 50 percent Third World, it's no doubt what the consequences will be. The future of our children and grandchildren will be very grim. Our only hope is America-first voice to take control of sensible policy. The policy should include an absolute freeze on new immigration, deportation of all illegal aliens in America, no extensions or visas. In order for the United States to correct this it will take a few years to solve it's overpopulation and invasion of mass cultures. It's up to the American people to have the will power to make their politicians to implement a solution.absolute freeze on new immigration, deportation of all illegal aliens in America, no extensions or visas. In order for the United States to correct this it will take a few years to solve it's overpopulation and invasion of mass cultures. It's up to the American people to have the will power to make their politicians to implement a solution.	2003-07-28
US	50623976	R365M57KEQMIUJ	078143856X	378903423	Fish, Fun and Facts: Digraphs and Silent E (Rocket Readers, Set 2)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Proven Learn-To-Read Concepts that Teach Bible Lessons	Hey, parents if you want to teach your child to read introduce them to all the Rocket Readers books. Their reading skills will really take off. These are Bible-based supplemental readers that will help children learn all the essential skills of beginning reading. These are very simple and they come with tips for the parents to teach their child to read. Each set comes with 5 books. There are 5 reading levels: Pre-level 1, for new readers teaches rhyming and alphabet; Level 1 teaches alphabet sounds and beginning sight words; Level 2 teaches letter combinations, phonic skills, consonant blends, common vowel combinations and more sight words; Level 3 teaches fluency, common endings, more sight words recognition, responding to a story by creating and begin writing skills; Level 4 teaches comprehension, prediction and summary of facts, with more writing skills create a short written response to the reading piece. This set teaches children digraphs of the consonants ch, sh, th, wh (stories of Jesus feeding the people with 5 loaves and 2 fishes, Jesus' miracle of the Fish, Jesus loves the children, Jacob & Esau) and silent e (story of Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego in the fiery furnace). Garanteed that you child will love Rocket Readers they will want to read them all. I also recommend 'Jesus' Friends' (New Testament) and the 'Learn-To-Read Bible.'	2003-07-28
US	50623976	R3BISUIHD11DVA	1400050308	820650568	Treason: Liberal Treachery from the Cold War to the War on Terrorism	Books	4	15	50	N	N	Exposing the Traitors of America	Ann Coulter, the most talked-about conservative commentators is one gutsy lady who not afraid to tell the truth on those nasty liberals. I have to agree with her. Liberals are not nice. They have for years tried to tear down the walls of America and destroy our liberty and freedom. After her controversial bestseller 'Slander' brought the attention of many critics and non-critics. In 'Slander' she exposes the liberal lies in American politics that have disintegrated the American right. She has done so with fine-tooth comb research to reveal in a time when free choice of party as friendly, American politics have turned hostile. Her second look at liberal treachery in her new book 'Treason' leaves no stones unturned. Coulter examines in 'Treason' a 60-year history of the Cold War to the present day, including the careers of Senator Joe McCarthy, Ronald Reagan meeting with Mikhail Gorbachev, the Gulf War and the present war on terrorism. As far as the liberals are concerned who stick their nose in every major domestic and foreign policy business should be off-limits to political debate. Proving their meaning of patriotism is communism in diguise. Being not only wrong but dangerous to the liberties, security and way of Christian life in the United States. During the time of Truman and the Cold War all the way to Kennedy and Nixon to Carter and Clinton they've tried to hold back, relieve and withdraw and even sacrifice America's best interest and freedom. As in the words of Coulter &quot;Liberals have a preternatural gift for always striking a position on the side of treason.&quot; She goes on to say, &quot;Everyone says liberals love America, too. No, they don't.&quot; And from what I've learned she's dead-on right. In today's current events, with all the exposure available to everyone if you don't see what's wrong with America's morals. Then it's like the blind leading the blind. This is also available on audio cassette.	2003-07-28
US	50623976	R3UUVU4NF55OW4	0842381384	468708674	In the Presence of My Enemies	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Story of Strength & Courage that Surpasses All Understanding	'In the Presence of my Enemies' is a true story of two American missionaries, Martin and Garcia Burnham while on their wedding anniversary were kidnapped at gunpoint by Moslem extremists and lived a life of terror in the Philippine jungle.  Garcia Burnham related to their ordeal and captivity to show others their strength in faith and the embrace of God's gladness and love. The Burnham's story is just one of many who have given their life for the Gospel of Jesus Christ. And their story was an example of courage, faith and strength in evil times. Garcia Burnham tells how her husband and herself endured being hostage, kept on the run by the Abu Sayyaf, a terrorist group that had ties to Osama bin Laden.<br /><br />The Burnhams faced exhaustion, starvation and cruel imprisonment. Through all this they relied on each other and the Faith they brought to the Philippines to proclaim. Garcia tells of her husband rare courage and level-headedness, how God prepared her way, her experience in crisis of faith. During more than a year of their captivity that even under the tragic circumstances, they continued to put all of their trust in the Lord. In the process of their rescue, Martin was killed in the gunfire and Garcia was injured from the indiscrimnate fire from government troops. A year after her captivity Garcia now living in Rose Hill, Kansas reflects on life during that time and what God has blessed her even in the face of adversity. Garcia's story tells others that every day is a gift. Her freedom to her is a gift and to be happy. In a world where we all can't change alot of things there's an omnipotent God whose in control.	2003-07-28
US	50623976	R25MFCGE25ZPPE	0803728484	411961434	The Spiffiest Giant in Town	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Kind-Hearted Giant Goes from Spiffy to Skivvy	Scottish writer Julia Donaldson's charming enchanted tale in an enchanted, magical land where George the giant lives over a small world of people, elves and animals where they all coexist peacefully. One day, George tired of his scruffy look decides on a giant makeover. So he goes to the clothes shop (Haberdashery) run by the small people. Soon he's traded his monk robe and worn-out sandals for the spiffiest shirt, pants, shiny black shoes and the works. But, you know what his new look don't last long. He runs into the small town's creatures who need help. Like the giraffe whose afraid his neck will caught cold, the goat who need a sail for his boat and the family of mice whose house burnt down. He gives the giraffe his tie, the goat his shirt and one of his shoes to the mice for a house. Before you know it George is left standing outside the shop in his skivvies! When the shop is closed, the only thing George can do is put back on his dirty old clothes again. In the end, George is thanked by all those he had helped. The lesson to be learned that it's more important to be kind and generous toward others than to be cool and spiffy :). This is a delightful tale for people of all ages to keep in mind the moral to the story. Don't we need more like George the gentle giant in the world?	2003-07-25
US	50623976	R1SKDTO1DY0FU	0439241006	440612149	How Do Dinosaurs Get Well Soon?	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Bad Dinosaurs, Good Laugh	If you loved Jane Yolen's first book, 'How Do Dinosaurs Say Goodnight?' you'll probably like, 'How Do Dinosaurs Get Well Soon?' Both are morally instructive. Dinosaurs act as children, and if by bad or good example, show the way they ought to behave. The dinosaurs portray a over-sized wrong-doers and get the kids to cheer on through their own capers while giving helpful pointers. The book is poetic and has lots of questions to be answered. Like, \\"What if a dinosaur catches the flu?/Does he whimper and whine in between each Atchoo? Then the readers can answer correctly what a dinosaur should do! Imagine what the doctor has to tackle? What would it be like of a dinosaur threw-up? Ewwwww! I wouldn't want to clean up that mess :)! Look out there when Tuojiangosaurus \\"opens wide.\\" One of my favorite illustrators, Mark Teague expands on a smart concept of what is usually ordinary households in which the \\"child\\" is a big dinosaur. Still imagine a mom dragging her dinosaur to see the doctor. Imagine the human expression in those cute dinosaur faces. Yep, these dinosaurs are put through the gamut of sickness. These big fellas will charm and entertianment those little listeners who maybe confine to bed and need a little company. And, at the same time enjoy all the fun!	2003-07-25
US	50623976	R2GCC7J8Q4736F	0439206634	762228668	Dear Mrs. LaRue: Letters from Obedience School (LaRue Books)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Hello Mudda LaRue Life at Obedience School is....	For the dogs! Literally speaking and a hilarious look at Mrs. LaRue's clever pooch, Ike who write home a series of letters that well you might say-stretch the truth quite a bit. Ike is desperate to come home and hopes Mrs. LaRue will have pity on poor Ike's dilemma at the Igor Brotweiler's Canine Academy. One can get caught up in the good dog, bad dog of Ike's pleads for liberation. I got a kick out of this book. It's entertaining and laugh-out-loud funny dialogue. And, Mark Teague is one of my favorite illustrators. They remind me of the Far Side comic strip cartoons. The pictures really work well. It's a winner.	2003-07-23
US	50623976	R1PL1P92O8OV5O	0374310025	377922916	Tadpole	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Kentucky Harmony-family, dreams & dealing with hard times	Ruth White's tale about the Collins family who lives in a small house in the Kentucky hills in 1955. The family makes up of four little girls Kentucky, Virginia, Georgia and Carolina and their Mama. Their daddy left them when Carolina was a baby. What little electricity they got in the house when they can pay the bill. Their idea of a good time is a trip to town for a hair-do and see one of those Hollywood movies. One day a young fellow by the name of Winston Churchill \\"Tadpole\\" Birch comes walking into their lives. He was named Tadpole after he took a dare to swallow a tadpole. Tad had ran away from abusive relatives and now comes to live with the Collins family. He has a talent for singing, playing guitar, he gets neighbors together for social events and gets free passes to the carnival.<br /><br />The story is laid-back and the dialect is very Southern colloquial. The family are well-adjusted and go through remarkable changes inspite of hard times. They learn important lessons about closeness of family, what home is, keeping your dreams and dealing with child abuse. The story looks at the family in a warm and sensitive way with what little they do have, they have so much. They have each other and their dreams beyond the hills. In Carolina's case she find her special talent. The way she can harmonize with Tadpole's music. Parents who buy this book for younger children may want to consider the theme and content of the story. I think this should be for older children who can understand a very sensitive subject in this story. I find it a good story.	2003-07-23
US	50623976	R1UWAH6T2VJWD2	0064471195	607344832	The Chronicles of Narnia Boxed Set	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fantastic Imaginative Tale of Narnia	This well-loved fantasy tale by C.S. Lewis is a passport to a most extraordinary place into magical lands and enchanted creatures. If you never been to Narnia, you can enter through any of the seven (7) books and meet Peter, Susan, Edmund and Lucy. They step through the wardrobe and so begins the tale of 'The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe.' The story is about Aslan, the noble lion who freed Narnia from the spell of the White Witch. These are my favorite in the book collection because of the beautiful illustrations by Pauline Baynes. After you start one you'll want to read every one.<br /><br />After The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe follows the tale of good 'Prince Caspian' and his army of Talking Beasts who conquered the Telmarines. Prince Caspian is later made King and goes on 'The Voyage of the \\"Dawn Treader\\"' through magic waters to the End of the World. In 'The Silver Chair' captive Prince Rilian escaped from the Emerald Witch's underground kingdom. 'The Horse and His Boy' tells of a talking horse and a boy prince saved Narnia from invasion. 'The Magician's Nephew' tells how Aslan created Narnia and gave the gift of speech to its animals. In 'The Last Battle' evil came to Narnia and Aslan led his people to a glorious new paradise. C.S. Lewis used his characters such as Aslan the Lion to illustrate the love of Jesus Christ. It also illustrates God's care and grace for all His creation. As in the last battle, God in the final days will lead His people to Heaven. Lewis wrote the stories for his granddaugher, Lucy which one of the character was named after her. Each story tells of the battle between good and evil of light and darkness, and the issues of faith and hope. C.S. Lewis has written so many great books during his time that's made an impact both young and old. Read his 'Space Trilogy,' 'The Screwtape Letters' and his masterpiece 'Mere Christianity.' I highly recommend them all!<br /><br />Don't miss some excellent selected video viewing: if you can find the BBC release of a 6-VHS set of 'The Chronicles of Narnia' in a stunning LIVE production. Don't miss the documentary on 'The Life of C.S. Lewis: Through Joy and Beyond' narrated by Rev. Walter Hooper, C.S. Lewis' private secretary, ASIN: B000007QXZ and the movie 'Shadowlands' starring Anthony Hopkins as the Christian apologist. If you loved Narnia then try Lewis' 'Space Trilogy' (Out of the Silent Planet, Perelandra, That Hideous Strength) any sci-fi fan would love, too. And, don't forget Peter Kreeft's 'Between Heaven and Hell' a fictious look into purgatory with the gathering of the minds of C.S. Lewis, Aldous Huxley and John F. Kennedy.can find the BBC release of a 6-VHS set of 'The Chronicles of Narnia' in a stunning LIVE production. Don't miss the documentary on 'The Life of C.S. Lewis: Through Joy and Beyond' narrated by Rev. Walter Hooper, C.S. Lewis' private secretary, ASIN: B000007QXZ and the movie 'Shadowlands' starring Anthony Hopkins as the Christian apologist. If you loved Narnia then try Lewis' 'Space Trilogy' (Out of the Silent Planet, Perelandra, That Hideous Strength) any sci-fi fan would love, too. And, don't forget Peter Kreeft's 'Between Heaven and Hell' a fictious look into purgatory with the gathering of the minds of C.S. Lewis, Aldous Huxley and John F. Kennedy.	2003-07-22
US	50623976	RK3ZD4S0YYQ9N	1581802161	423577635	Secrets to Drawing Realistic Faces	Books	5	29	31	N	N	Best Instruction for Drawing Realistic Faces	Carrie Stuart Park's 'Secrets to Drawing Realistic Faces' is the best book on drawing realistic faces I've ever found. I'm an artist who's been searching for the perfect book and this is the closest. This book is easy if you're a beginner, you can start rendering amazingly real faces and self-portraits. The author has proven techniques and tools and hands-on exercises to help you be a well-trained artist without taking a class. The examples in the book are before and after works that will help the artist achieve success in no time. There's lots of illustrations for practice. Forget about what you maybe learn the old way of drawing a certain geometric form. Throw that out! This book help you to draw what you actually see. The techniques will help you draw in a short amount of time. You'll surprise yourself how you can produce a fantastically real portrait. And, the price is just right, too!	2003-07-22
US	50623976	R2MKNJWWLAEI5A	0385418493	610658517	How the Irish Saved Civilization: The Untold Story of Ireland's Heroic Role From the Fall of Rome to the Rise of Medieval Europe (The Hinges of History)	Books	5	25	32	N	N	Irish Milestone of Saving Literature & Christian History	Thomas Cahill's 'How the Irish Saved Civilization' vol. I, part of a soon-to-be 5 volume set of the Hinges of History series. So far Cahill has written 'The Gifts of the Jews,' vol. II and 'Desire of the Everlasting Hills,' vol. III. The Irish tale is how Ireland took a heroic place after the Fall of Rome to help save the ancient history and culture of early Christianity. After the rise of Charlemagne and the \\"dark ages\\" all learning and culture nearly disappeared. The heritage of about 1600 years of Western civilization of Greek and Roman to Jewish and Christian works would have been lost. If it were not for the holy mean and women of at that time a primitive Ireland. One such holy man, Saint Patrick was to preserve and transmit classic literature and evangelize Europe. His influence at the time of his slavery was the publication of Saint Augustine's 'Confessions.' At the time of Augustine's death, Patrick arrived in Ireland about 432 A.D. and revolutionized the Celtic land with the Gospel. After Patrick's death soon came the decline of the Roman Empire in the west. In c. 500 Brigid founds Kildare, into the next century Aidan founds Lindisfarne an important area where the monks set up their mission. Not only were the Irish conservers of civilization but mind-shapers placing their stamp on Western culture. Cahill does a great job in uncovering sources that point to the contribution of the Irish to save early books and documentation of ancient history.<br /><br />...If you want more earlier sources try, Abe Hood's 'St. Patirck: His Writings and Muirchu's \\"Life\\",' E.A. Thompson's 'Who was Saint Patrick?,' Robert Van de Weyer's 'Celtic Fire' (Brigid of Kildare), Alwyn Rees and Brinley Rees' 'Celtic Heritage: Ancient Tradition in Ireland and Wales,' Walter Horn's 'The Forgotten Hermitage of Skellig Michael,' and Kathleen Hughes' 'The Church in Early Irish Society.' Cahill has been helpful for me especially if you're staring out with ancient history, Irish culture and Christianity and how they tie into with each other. This maybe a good place to start. There's some pretty good diagrams of maps of ancient lands (Roman Empire in early 5th century and western Europe in early 6th century) and the important centers of Irish-Christian influence from the British Isles (Britian, Picts & Irish) to what is now present day France (Gaul), Germany (Frisians, Franks & Alemens) and Italy. This offers some good starting points in early history. My thumbs up!istianity and how they tie into with each other. This maybe a good place to start. There's some pretty good diagrams of maps of ancient lands (Roman Empire in early 5th century and western Europe in early 6th century) and the important centers of Irish-Christian influence from the British Isles (Britian, Picts & Irish) to what is now present day France (Gaul), Germany (Frisians, Franks & Alemens) and Italy. This offers some good starting points in early history. My thumbs up!	2003-07-21
US	50623976	R3LSHZ3E35T6QV	0451407261	732344325	The Maggody Militia (Arly Hanks Mystery)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Many Misadventures of Arly Hanks	'Magoddy Militia' is the kind of book that is a chocolate bon-bon. You can't stop at one. If you read one Maggody mystery, you gotta read them all. Joan Hess and Janet Evanovich are the grand dames of the humorous murder mysteries. If you like Southern-type humor with backwoods colloquialisms and a smathering of Ellery Queen, Dragnet and Mayberry R.F.D. then you'll just love Hess series of Maggody mysteries. Joan Hess has written eleven Maggody mysteries, as well as twelve Claire Malloy mysteries. she is also the current president of the American Crime Writers League. The series is set in Maggody, Arkansas a peaceful little town snuggles somewhere in the heart of the Ozarks. These are the best laugh-out-loud whodunit of pure rollicking fun.<br /><br />Start with this one and then follow with:<br />Malice in Maggody<br />Mischief in Maggody<br />Much Ado in Maggody<br />Madness in Maggody<br />Mortal Remains in Maggody<br />Maggody in Manhattan<br />O Little Town of Maggody<br />Martians in Maggody<br />Miracles in Maggody<br />Maggody and the Moonbeams<br /><br />Hess credits her information in writing 'The Maggody Militia' from the 'Armed and Dangerous: The Rise of the Survivalist Right' by James Coates. And pretty much what this story is related to. Our sleuth heroine of Maggody, Arkansas is Chief of Police Arly Hanks. It isn't until a group of camouflage-clad patriots march into town with practice maneuvers-and mayhem and murder. It starts when the widow Kayleen Smeltner lets a group of demented miliants use her pastures for paint-ball war games during the first week of deer hunting season. Then all of a sudden all mayhem breaks loose. Burglars are breaking into houses. The Mayor Jim Bob turns up missing. And, Dylan Gilbert a survialist has been killed or so it seems. If that isn't enough two unpredictable ostrichs have the town up in arms. Arly Hanks has her hands full to find a motive, a means and a murderer. With her wise detective instinct she reckons there isn't a secret government conspiracy behind all this,nope just your average human evil-doers of blind ambition, greed, and deadly obsessions. The story is hiliarious and entertainingly engaging. The dialogue makes for alot of that down-home flair and much humor. I've had fun reading 'Maggody' and look forward to reading further episodes. You're sure to have a good time with the 'Maggody' gang.overnment conspiracy behind all this,nope just your average human evil-doers of blind ambition, greed, and deadly obsessions. The story is hiliarious and entertainingly engaging. The dialogue makes for alot of that down-home flair and much humor. I've had fun reading 'Maggody' and look forward to reading further episodes. You're sure to have a good time with the 'Maggody' gang.	2003-07-20
US	50623976	RY2SDJBCP8HUO	0785266496	181366477	The Red Sea Rules: 10 God-Given Strategies for Difficult Times	Books	5	50	53	N	N	He Will NEVER Leave You Nor Forsake You	I [the Lord] will even make a way in the wilderness, and rivers in the desert. Isaiah 43:19<br /><br />Pastor Robert J. Morgan of Nashville, Tennessee, author of 'On This Day' and 'Tiny Talks with God' uses the story of Moses and the Israelites, as an example to explain the ten (10) God-given strategies for difficult times. Remember when Moses and the Israelites were caught between \\"the devil (Pharoah) and the deep Red Sea?\\" God delivered them from the adversary and parted the Red Sea for thier escape. The same way we're overwhelmed by life's problems. God will deliver us, too. 'The Red Sea Rules' reveals even in the worst situation God will make a way. His promise and loving guidance will protect us through all the troubles, challenges and obstacles Satan puts in our way.<br /><br />These ten (10) strategies will move you from fear to faith:<br />Rule 1. Realize that God means for you to be where you are.<br />Rule 2. Be more concerned for God's glory than for your relief.<br />Rule 3. Acknowledge your enemy, but keep your eyes on the Lord.<br />Rule 4. Pray.<br />Rule 5. Stay calm and confident, and give God time to work.<br />Rule 6. When unsure, just take the next logical step by faith.<br />Rule 7. Envision God's enveloping presence.<br />Rule 8. Trust God to deliver in His own unique way.<br />Rule 9. View your current crisis as a faith builder for the future.<br />Rule 10. Don't forget to praise Him.<br /><br />No matter where you are in life's storm-east or west, up, down and under. God will make a way. No sea is deeper than the ocean of His Love. No army, force or enemy can overcome His throne of grace and His work in our lives. Just like the reality of the Red Sea, God will always make a way for His trusting children, even if He must split the sea to do it. Sometime time ago, a friend told me of this book of how much of an impact it made in their life. It was the only book that they would refer to in time of encouragement and hope. If you're going through a difficult time in your life I recommend this. It's my companion I can look to. A reminder that there is a God who loves and cares to make a future plan for all of us. Just trust Him.ime in your life I recommend this. It's my companion I can look to. A reminder that there is a God who loves and cares to make a future plan for all of us. Just trust Him.	2003-07-19
US	50623976	R24KGU07ULE4N8	084991759X	752553610	A Love Worth Giving: Living in the Overflow of God's Love	Books	5	34	35	N	N	Live Loved in the Overflow of God's Love	We Love, because He (Jesus) first loved us. John 4:19<br /><br />Have you ever tried to Love someone who was difficult to Love? It's not so easy. Has there been a time you had married the wrong spouse, got into the wrong career, or got mixed up with the wrong friends. There's one guarantee that you'll get it right is the One who has unconditional Love gives you a Life-Eternally in a world much better than this life. The first step to true love is not towards otheres but towards Him. Besides you can't give what you don't have. We've forgotten the first step for relationships. The secret-living Loved. It can't be found in marriage or friendship. If you're running low on Love, had your last dose of forgiveness, hit rock bottom on patience. If you tried to give what you haven't received why not try this book to help you receive it.<br /><br />Lucado takes the best loved scripture, I Corinthians 13 one step at a time. He expands on all the characteristics of Love into the infinite, measureless boundaries of God's Love. If we were to be reminded of how we should or could Love just like Jesus. Taking it one step at a time. Beginning with patience, then kindness all the way to enduring all things where Love NEVER Fails. Rather then a scripture to remind us of Love we can't produce, let it remind us of a Love we cannot resist-God's Love. When you were left at the altar, with a broken heart, an empty bed, broken home, in the hospital. When you're left to say, &quot;Does anybody love me?&quot; Listen to heaven's answer. God loves you. His Love is Personal. With all the Power and Passion He can give. Others have promised and failed. But God has promised and succeeded. He loves you with an unfailing love. His Love-if you will let it-can fill you and leave you with a Love worth giving. If anyone is thirsty for His Love--I recommend this!	2003-07-19
US	50623976	R2FLBY6QKXHMB9	0737000651	636825852	Billy Graham: God's Ambassador	Books	5	2	4	N	N	His Only Purpose in Life--Helping People Find Jesus	For many years through all his dedication in giving his life for Jesus Christ and helping others, Billy Graham is truly God's Ambassador. Tehabi Books in conjunction with the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association has organized and produced the story of the man with a lifelong mission of giving hope to the world. The book is lavishly covered with black-and-white and full color photos from the archives of eyewitness photographer Russ Busby. Busby had spent most of his life documenting Billy Graham's ministry around the world. In just half a century, Billy Graham has traveled the world to preach the Gospel to millions of people across the globe-more than anyone in history.<br /><br />The book captures public and private moments from his humble beginning as a dairy farmer's son in Charlotte, North Carolina to one of the most influential evangelist of the 20th century. 'Billy Graham: God's Ambassador' includes comments, quotes and personal reflections mostly from the words of Billy Graham himself and those who have been closest to him. This insightful book looks at Graham as the advocate and preacher of human rights and world peace, Counselor with Presidents, world leaders and celebrities, inspired a positive influence in times of conflict and discord and at home with his family he was husband and father. This is an intimate and unique portrait of a man who dedicated his life to the Gospel and the world's most prominent figure of this century. Quoting from Daniel Webster-&quot;If we work on marble, it will perish; if on brass, time will efface it; if we rear up temples, they will crumble into dust; but if we work upon immortal minds and imbue them with principles, with the just fear of God and the love of our fellow men, we engrave on those tablets something that will brighten to all eternity.&quot;	2003-07-17
US	50623976	R1VM6J5QWH0U4Y	0060194820	289985994	Vegetarian Classics: 300 Essential Recipes for Every Course and Every Meal	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Really Great Vegetarian Cookbook	'Vegetarian Classics' was my first cookbook by Jeanne Lemlin, author of 'Quick Vegetarian Pleasures.' This is one of the best vegetarian cookbooks I've bought. I use 'Vegetarian Classics' along side my 'Better Homes &amp; Gardens Cookbook.' There's 300 great recipes for every course and meal. I find this differs from other cookbooks which has interesting introduction and history of vegeterian origins. Did you know that St. Franics of Assisi, Leonardo da Vinci, Percy B. Shelley and George Bernard Shaw were all vegetarians? There's an alphabetical list of food ingredients used in the recipes from barley to wheat berries. It explains what each food is and it's use.<br /><br />The book is easy to follow as every food is put in it's own category starting with the basics and appetizers to everything from soups, salads, breads, side dishes, all types of pies, pastas, stovetop cooking and desserts. In the back there is a handy menu layout to give you ideas for casual, elegant, summer and holiday meals. In each section Lemlin has side notes and colored blocks of additional information and tips like for perfect brown rice, about olives with an excellent recipe for marinated olives, frittatas, cooking beans, choosing &amp; preparing potatoes, successful puff pastry tarts, cookies and polenta are just a few of the items you'll find in the book. Most of the recipes are simple and easy to follow instructions. I love the guide to light breads, flaky scones and tender muffins. The masala chai is heavenly and the mixed berry smoothie yummy. Even if you're a semi-vegetarian or not, and just looking for new ways to cook your veggies this book is excellent!	2003-07-17
US	50623976	R3K1IN499HIDT9	087113795X	996091853	Peace Like a River	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Classic Saga of Beauty, Sacrifice & Strange Redemption	I wonder if Leif Enger read Harper Lee's 'To Kill a Mockingbird' some time in life to inspire him to write 'Peace Like a River.' Enger pulls this off excellectly and in the style of Lee's Mockingbird tale. The story is set in 1960s Minnesota. The characters of Swede and Reuben Land are a spitting image of Scout and Jem, respectively. The story is told through the eyes of Reuben Land in this case. Reuben is troubled with asthma and knows that life is a gift and believes his father is touched by God and can change the laws of nature. Jeremiah Land is the single father who lovingly care for his children. Raising them in the rough wilderness of Minnesota.<br /><br />The story centers around an incident that involves the eldest of the children, Davy. Davy now faced uncertainty in a justifiable shooting of two tormentors whose intent was to harm the family. After being arrested for murder. He escapes from jail. Davy becomes a fugitive and runs for his life to only God knows where. He vanishes into the west on horseback. This then put the whole Land family into a crisis to find one of their own across the country in an airstream trailer. Their travels across the west is one of miracles and serendipity and the kindness of strangers. One instance, they meet Roxanne Cawley a free spirit from the outside world, who lives on a ranch in northern Montana. She gives them a warm place to stay but she also gives them something of comfort to warm their hearts instead. This union becomes a permenant establishment later. The gift of entertaining them with life's stories and being the mother the children needed and longed for. When Reuben becomes ill with pneumonia she nurses him back to health like a kindred spirit mother would. Roxanne had lost her mother, raised only by her father who opened a movie house in their town of Lawrence where their life revolved around movies. An escape from the real life of the Dust Bowl country. She spoke their language. Like both Swede and Reuben escaped into stories of westerns, Huckleberry Finn, Treasure Island and the Bible. Roxanne found her family and her love.<br /><br />Not far behind a federal agent is trailing the Land family knowing they may have a lead on the whereabouts of Davy. One morning, Reuben remembered gathering eggs at Roxanne's barn when he first caught eye of Davy on the horse. They both met on a hillside away from everyone else not watching. A moment of redeeming peace and yet strange, somewhat of a miracle of this meeting. The family become reunited again. But, for how long? What follows is Jeremiah's decision in making a sacrifice of doing the right thing or saving Davy. In the end the outcome reveals the truth that lay in store for the Land family. This tale is a true classic of beauty, sacrifice & strange redemption. I liked it very much.aped into stories of westerns, Huckleberry Finn, Treasure Island and the Bible. Roxanne found her family and her love.<BR><br /><BR>Not far behind a federal agent is trailing the Land family knowing they may have a lead on the whereabouts of Davy. One morning, Reuben remembered gathering eggs at Roxanne's barn when he first caught eye of Davy on the horse. They both met on a hillside away from everyone else not watching. A moment of redeeming peace and yet strange, somewhat of a miracle of this meeting. The family become reunited again. But, for how long? What follows is Jeremiah's decision in making a sacrifice of doing the right thing or saving Davy. In the end the outcome reveals the truth that lay in store for the Land family. This tale is a true classic of beauty, sacrifice & strange redemption. I liked it very much.	2003-07-14
US	50623976	R50H4X9LXYYR2	0452281032	825719637	The Mammy	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Come Ye Back Agnes Browne	Brendan O'Carroll appeared in the film 'The Van' and 'Angela's Ashes' now author of 'The Mammy' the #1 bestseller in Ireland that started it all-the Agnes Browne trilogy. First came 'The Mammy,' followed after 'The Chisellers' and later they made her 'The Granny.' The best trilogy since 'The Godfather.' Well, just as good anyway. It's the funny, laugh-out-loud story set in 1967 Dublin, about Agnes and her lively brood of seven kids-Mark, Francis, Rory, Dermot, Trevor, Simon and Cathy. Agnes husband Redser has died. But being a single parent hasn't got her defeated. Not even the troubles with her daughter, Cathy's tyrannical teacher. Or the amorous advances of the French proprietor of a local pizza shop. Not even the medical crisis of her best friend, Marion Monks. Agnes supports the family by going to Moore Street at five every morning and set up her produce stall. There all the women meet to gossip, buy and sell. All the humor and humanness has an aroma of Irishness that rises above the clamour of daily business. Out of the average day Agnes makes everyone's day special.<br /><br />There in the Jarro becomes a moving and tender portrait of working-class life in 1960s Dublin. To the fatherless Browne clan, Agnes is more to them than just a beloved neighborhood character. She's just about anything there is to be. The pages of 'The Mammy' have all the hiliarity of Paul Roach and the charm of Dickens. There are page-to-page funny accounts like Agnes educating the &quot;facts of life&quot; to her eldest son, Mark. Marks awareness of his changing self had me tickled Irish pink. The one of the man in the James Bond movie with the three nipples. The one about P.J. and Dolly Foley had me laughing through the whole Chapter 8. The story is an Irish &quot;Leave It to Beaver&quot; meets &quot;The Waltons.&quot; I can't tell you how much I really loved reading this book. I loved the ending when the two Browne boys arranged a meeting with Cliff &quot;Harry&quot; Richard for their mammy on Christmas Day. It just goes to show in a sad and busy world that someone's dream can come true. When you read about Agnes Browne, you will be captivated by her strength and wittiness like you always known her as your next door neighbor. 'The Mammy' will warm your heart and put a little Irish jig in your soul. Slaint&eacute; y'all!ir mammy on Christmas Day. It just goes to show in a sad and busy world that someone's dream can come true. When you read about Agnes Browne, you will be captivated by her strength and wittiness like you always known her as your next door neighbor. 'The Mammy' will warm your heart and put a little Irish jig in your soul. Slainté y'all!	2003-07-12
US	50623976	R9D6LBSYL6U46	0670031143	923857307	The Young Wan	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Continuing Agnes Browne Saga-Before she was 'The Mammy'	Brendan O'Carroll's 'The Young Wan' is the fourth in the continuing Agnes Browne saga takes a step back into the past. Rightfully being the first tale in the life of Agnes Reddin before she became Mrs. Nichols 'Redser' Browne. Before she was 'The Mammy,' who had 'The Chisellers' and before the made her 'The Granny'-Agnes was just a young girl, or 'The Young Wan,' growing up in the Jarro in Dublin. A place where the working-class live, where women shout gossip across the street and everyone knows everyone else's business. The story begins in 1940 is the meeting of Agnes and her best friend Marion Delany (later Mrs. Tom Monks). then it switches to 1921 about the meeting and eventual courtship of Agnes' parents Connie Parker-Willis and Bosco Reddin. Connie a homely head of the accounting office and Bosco a dashing factory worker and union organizer. It wasn't long  after their whirlwind romance and marriage along came Agnes Reddin.<br /><br />During the time after Agnes was born Bosco encouraged Connie to reconcile her differences with her father. Her visit to see him was the most sorriest tale that would leave one in tears. As Agnes grew she was &quot;the quiet one&quot; and her first four years of school was barely noticed. Then in her Holy Communion class it changed that's when she met Marion Delany. A milestone on her life. The disappearance of her mammy was another milestone in Agnes' life, or perhaps a millstone. After the birth of her sister Dolly, Agnes was no longer the baby, but &quot;a young wan&quot; as Marion put it. Thee were times Agnes and Marion they did everything together. They drew closer. From that hilarious outburst of the first confession, the indignities of Catholic school, the daytrips to &quot;the Market,&quot; working in the factories, unwanted birth of siblings and nights in the dance halls when rock-and-roll by Bill Haley and the Comets from America made the Dublin scene to meet the boys.<br /><br />There were the darker times like the tragic death of Agnes' father, the truth about her mother's parents involvement of &quot;Misery Hill Massacre&quot; incident and the shame that was brought on the family, her mother's failing health and sister Dolly is accused of burglary and sentenced time in jail. As Agnes' life began to change she took comfort in her friends and along with Marion meet her future husband. First, it was Marion swept away by Tommo Monks. Marion introduced Agnes to Redser Browne. The rest is history. Then came the day of Agnes' wedding, the Jarro was full of gossip who knew of Agnes' secret. But Agnes now grown-up, keeping her broken family together at the same time creating one of her very own. 'The Young Wan' is completely different approach from 'The Mammy' trilogy but still retains the wit and unforgettable characters that had the making of the greatest Irish mother and family. This was a roaring good time I definitely recommend.e tragic death of Agnes' father, the truth about her mother's parents involvement of &quot;Misery Hill Massacre&quot; incident and the shame that was brought on the family, her mother's failing health and sister Dolly is accused of burglary and sentenced time in jail. As Agnes' life began to change she took comfort in her friends and along with Marion meet her future husband. First, it was Marion swept away by Tommo Monks. Marion introduced Agnes to Redser Browne. The rest is history. Then came the day of Agnes' wedding, the Jarro was full of gossip who knew of Agnes' secret. But Agnes now grown-up, keeping her broken family together at the same time creating one of her very own. 'The Young Wan' is completely different approach from 'The Mammy' trilogy but still retains the wit and unforgettable characters that had the making of the greatest Irish mother and family. This was a roaring good time I definitely recommend.	2003-07-12
US	50623976	RRMEQG6QI0C2Z	0385496095	860500413	Traveling Mercies: Some Thoughts on Faith	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Gem--The Genuine Walk in Faith	Anne Lamott, author of 'Bird by Bird,' 'Hard Laughter,' 'Operating Instructions' and 'Blue Shoe' has written this personal account on her journey of faith and spirituality. Her leap of faith in everyday life braves the challenge of leaping across the abyss of doubt with fear and trembling. She recalls from Micah...and what does the Lord require of you, but to do justice, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with God. Both a divine human comedy and error of Christ-like suffering and passion with a penance for honest and wise sense of humor that has raw courage to spill it out on the page.<br /><br />If you're still struggling with faith and you've tried source books after another. Then I'd recommend Ms. Lamott's 'Traveling Mercies.' Lamott tells it like it is with a been there, done that kind-of-spirit who wasn't afraid of living life but still loved God with all the passion and yearning. She shares her life with open insight and truly genuine faith in raising her son Sam, the relationships with her family, old friends, women of her church and men she dated. She tells us in a vibrant, warm and funny way in her journey of faith that sustains and guides her. Traveling through as a shining light in the darkest of life and exposing her inner well of meaning and hope. Lamott is a cross between Erma Bombeck, Cyndi Lauper and Ruth Graham. Well, sort of. If you're trying to find your walk of faith and what to understand in an honest, wise straightforwardness approach to the ups-and-downs of daily living Ms. Lamott can be your friend. My top recommendation on real faith.	2003-07-11
US	50623976	R3D09XE541O4ZO	0849916550	570017569	He Chose The Nails: What God did to Win Your Heart	Books	5	3	4	N	N	What God Did to Win Your Heart	Lucado takes the reader to the foot of the Cross to see for ourselves what God did to win our hearts. God's promises of the ancient prophecy are revealed in the tools of torture and shame. Every instrument was a gift of love and redemption. Could you do what He did in your place to ransom you from Sin and Death? If we all stood in a line waiting for our time to linger in sacrifice for the atonement could you do it? Imagine what it would be like to have nails driven in your hands with 6-inch spikes and feel scratching and stabbing of thorns on your brow. Instead God sent His Son Jesus to die in your place. That's why 'He Chose the Nails.' No other god would come from Heaven to redeem the lost, like Jesus did. To let you know He Loved you. Jesus sacrified His Life and shed His blood as a Sin Offering-Pure, Sinless and Full of Grace. For our sake He was made Sin, who knew no Sin. So that in Him we might become the righteousness of God [2 Corithians 5: 21].<br /><br />Lucado examines each tool of torture to tell that beautiful, loving story of atonement and redemption. He invites you to listen to each one tell you what God did to win your heart. When the soldiers spat on Him, He bore your dark side of sin. By the gifts from the Crown of Thorns, the Nails, between the two crosses He beared His own Cross that He become one of us, he forgave, he gave you a choice for freedom and He promised to Love you Forever. The greatest Love He gave was demonstrated on the Cross. As it was written on Romans 5: 8...that God demonstrated His Love for us in this, while we were sinners. Christ died for us. We couldn't do what He did alone. Only He could do it for us. The price of sin was paid-in-full. What we all can offer is our lives to Him, and leave our troubles and sorrows at the foot of the Cross. All the tools of torture were His gift to you. From the Trial and Mockery to the Cross of His Broken Body of Torn Flesh and Blood. The day of Victory-the Empty Tomb. He gave us Freedom and Life Forever More. Max Lucado has created an audio CD version of this LIVE 'He Chose the Nails' performance. It includes names of popular, Dove award artists on one CD. Maybe you caught the LIVE TV performance on TBN at Easter 2003 this comes from the TV version. You got to hear it for yourself to be convinced that Jesus gave you His Heart.d Life Forever More. Max Lucado has created an audio CD version of this LIVE 'He Chose the Nails' performance. It includes names of popular, Dove award artists on one CD. Maybe you caught the LIVE TV performance on TBN at Easter 2003 this comes from the TV version. You got to hear it for yourself to be convinced that Jesus gave you His Heart.	2003-07-09
US	50623976	R34VKZUTK5K07S	084313819X	692049900	Serendipity	Books	5	46	46	N	N	Happiness is Discovering Serendipity	Stephen Cosgrove's 'Serendipity' series teaches kids to deal with everyday situations in the world they live in. It provides them with positive solutions to difficult problems. all the charaters are whimsical and beautifully illustrated. There's lot more of these charming books. Collect all the Serendipity series books. Read them all. Start with this one. They're sure to entertain and teach children some valuable lessons they will remember.<br /><br />In the first book of the series, 'Serendipity' is the story about a large pink sea monster who discovers she has important work to do as guardian of the seas. The moral is knowing who you really are will bring you happiness. Would I have ever known that a children's book could even teach me the meaning of true happiness. And I've been searching for a long time in lots of wordy adult books. The message is plain and simple. My favorites from the series are: 'Creole' (Don't judge people by the way they look.); 'Dragolin' (Believe in yourself-all things are possible.); 'Leo the Lop' (Being different makes you special because you're you.); Rhubarb (To have a friend you must ba a friend.); 'Wheedle on the Needle' (Cooperation can solve almost any problem.); 'Sooty Foot' (Friends don't take advantage of each other.); 'Jake O'Shawnasey' (If you believe in yourself you can do anything.); and 'Little Mouse on the Prairie' (Laughter makes work much easier.). All of these are guaranteed to give any child a good time in fun and learning. Like the name 'Serendipity' means \\"a fortunate discoveries by accident.\\" And, these are quite the case.	2003-07-09
US	50623976	R3QRK684BHDBX7	0811213099	227035403	A Child's Christmas in Wales	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Enchanting Poetic Dylan Thomas Classic	Dylan Thomas' 'A Child's Christmas in Wales' in it's second print for generations has become an enchanting, simple poetic tale captured in the eyes of a child. The language is delightfully entrancing and the poetry shines with a heavenly radiance. Thomas' style captures an adult's warm memory of a holiday-season that reflects presents, good things to eat, and when it was just right, white blanket of new snow with all it's wonder and the mischief of snowball battles and any exaggeration that moves that will spark the imagination of a child.<br /><br />This second edition of Thomas' magical tale is lavishly illustration with old-fashioned, scratchboard-like engravings by Fritz Eichenberg. Dylan Thomas was born in Swansea, Wales in 1914. He began writing poetry at a very young age and published his first book, '18 Poems' at twenty. From 1943 until his death he broadcasted his own radio talk program on BBC. He read poetry selections, participated in table discussions, and read dramas and essays. His voice became familiar with Americans in the 1950s during his lecture tours at American universities. He had achieved an admirable audience for his poetry. Besides this book and his poetry his other most widely read works are 'Portrait of the Artist as a Young Dog,' 'Quite Early One Morning' and his play, 'Under Milk Wood.'<br /><br />'A Child's Christmas in Wales' is Thomas' most fine work of art-with it's human quality, touching sentiment, easily understood presentation and child-like wisdom that gives Dickens' 'A Christmas Carol' a second glance at holiday tradition. After all we can all find a child in Christmas in all of us.	2003-07-08
US	50623976	R3COB984W32OEG	1856353826	892384143	The Rhino's Specs: Speaclai an tSronbheannaigh	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Whimsical Irish Children's Poems	I purchased my copy of 'Rhino Specs' (Sp&eacute;acla&iacute; an tSr&oacute;nbheannaigh) at Eason bookshop in Dublin, Ireland. The selected original children's poems are written in the Irish by Gabriel Rosenstock. They are translated into English by Gabriel Fitzmaurice. Gabriel Fitzmaurice has written a collection of children's verse called 'The Moving Stair' has become classic. The whimsical, simple black-and-white line illustrations are done by Cliodhna Quinlan.<br /><br />Rosenstock's strange, magical poems are witty and funny that will delight children. It is a perfect introduction to Irish poetry and a collectible treasure. The poems include the Rhino that lost his specs. And I love the one about if you should feed an alien? There's Daddy-Long-Legs, The Trout, Chimney Sweep, Bernard Badger, Fragance of Elephants, Slide, Jump Frog and Wandering in Space and others that kids will enjoy. I brought the book so it would help me in learning Irish Gaelic. It did!	2003-07-07
US	50623976	R2BVVZ9V7747UV	0689832133	819828038	Click, Clack, Moo Cows That Type	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Cows with Typewriters!?	Doreen Cronin's Caldecott award-winning story 'Click, Clack, Moo!' is a delightful and wacky tale of how cows try to get the attention of Farmer Brown who ignores them. The cows feel that the farmer is neglecting them of what they need. So these smart bovines find stashed away in the barn an old typewriter, and they get the idea to type messages to the farmer. They leave them in places to get him to give them blankets when they're cold. They leave them in all sorts of places to remind the farmer of being more responsible. Since Farmer Brown refuses the cows go on strike. The strike puts all of them in a fix and they must meet some agreeable to settle their differences. With the help of an impartial DUCK, it doesn't seem Farmer Brown is out of the forest yet. It seems everyone on the farm gets the hang of it.<br /><br />This funny story could help parents to teach their kids about give and take, being cooperative and learn to work out things peacefully. The kids will get a kick out of the impartial DUCK. I did. It'll tickle anyone's funnybone over the slapstick antics of the animals. I mean, who can turn down a book of literate cows who get Farmer Brown's barnyard turned all upside down. I recommend this highly!	2003-07-05
US	50623976	R4MSTVGITA55K	0670175919	309114645	Blueberries for Sal (Viking Kestrel picture books)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Family Adventure in Blueberries-Caldecott Award Winner	McCloskey wrote this about his wife Margaret (daughter of author Ruth Sawyer Durnad) and daughter Sally encountering a mother bear and cub while picking blueberries on Deer Isle. The story has some funny turns when both mother and child get separated and wind up finding the wrong family member. Imagine that! Well, all's well that ends well. And, guess you wondered what happened in the end don't you? You'll have to see for yourself. McCloskey sadly passed away on June 30, 2003 most of his life he illustrated and wrote children's books. He wrote eight books during his life. All the book reflect on family experiences, small-town life, and life in Boston. His story, 'Make Way for Ducklings' is set in Boston. McCloskey is one of the few authors that depicted Americana in a light-hearted vision through his illustration. He will be sadly missed. 'Blueberries for Sal' won the Caldecott award for children's book illustration. It's a darn good story to boot, too!	2003-07-05
US	50623976	R3TXEOQ10E3E85	0670451495	849728292	Make Way for Ducklings (Viking Kestrel picture books)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A Tribute to Author Robert McCloskey	This is a loving tribute to Robert McCloskey, the author and illustrator of the best loved children's books, 'Make Way for Ducklings,' 'Homer Price' and 'Blueberries for Sal.' McCloskey passed away June 30, 2003 at the age of 88 at his home in Deer Isle near Portland, Maine. His books focused on family experiences, small-town life, his island home in Maine and Boston. Boston was the setting for his 1941 book, 'Make Way for Ducklings.' It's about a father and mother duck who leads their eight ducklings thorugh the busy streets of the big city. McCloskey a native of Hamilton, Ohio went to Boston in 1932 to study art when he watched some ducklings waddling through traffic. The book won a Caldecott Medal for best American children's picture book. There is also a bronze sculpture of the mother duck and her eight ducklings as a popular tourist attraction in Boston. McCloskey and his family spent summers on Scott Island in Maine, where he wrote 'Blueberries for Sal,' 'One Morning in Maine' and 'Time of Wonder.' 'Time of Wonder' won a second Caldecott Medal. McCloskey has left behind a rich legacy of stories that woven around American living and families,  like those of E.B. White and A.A. Milne. This is one of the best children's classics I'd recommend to any parent.	2003-07-02
US	50623976	R3VUO1V4SZS7SH	1576735990	417281995	And the Angels Were Silent: The Final Week of Jesus	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Laying Out the Plan For Your Future	Max Lucado brings out the beauty and everlasting Grace of God's Love for us giving His Son, Jesus Christ for humanity. On the final week of Jesus' life everything was set in place. If you had a short time left here on earth, and the end was near. What would you do? Would you set the most important matters into priority? If you knew what Jesus did, then remember these final days of His Life. He turned it over to the higher authority to sacrifice His own life so that you could Live-Eternally.<br /><br />According to Matt. 20:28, the Son of Man did not come to be served. He came to serve others and to give His Life as a ransom for many people. Jesus set down the most important matters to be done before He went to the Cross. Those were His priorities. All the courage He set out to fulfill His purpose with passion and power-and you were included. Jesus seized the opportunity to save you the trouble of all life's trials. All we have to do is have the faith that He done it. God will do what it takes to bring His children home. He set you free of yesterday's guilt, fears, tomorrow's grave. The greatest miracle that God performed was the beauty of the Cross. The story continues to what God did to win your heart in Lucado's 'He Chose the Nails.'<br /><br />(Every chapter is supported by study guides and scripture notes for indepth study.) Lucado never fails to teach us all the gifts that God has waiting for us to treasure. God's blessed him richly with the gift of teaching. May he continue on the journey. GOD BLESS!	2003-07-01
US	50623976	R3C12HJZIGFCE5	0375714383	802961240	Born Free: A Lioness of Two Worlds	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A Powerful, Moving Story of Elsa	My first introduction to the Born Free books when I was a child learning to read in school. And what a great introduction to reading it was. The story of Elsa and the Adamsons who saved her life as a cub along with her sisters and raised her brought me into a world of wanting to be there with all the animals and see Africa. This seemed to be treated more as a children's book in my time than an adult book. The idea of the book was to teach people the importance of environmental conservation awareness. The first book, tells Elsa's early life from a cub raised by Joy and George Adamson and their pet rock hyrax, Pati. Joy is Elsa's surrogate mom and with great pains to teach Elsa the skills to survive in the wild. With lots of work Joy did it with success that Elsa was capable of living in the wild again. They released her near her birthplace and hoping Elsa would find and connect with her pride-in which she did. There is the tragedy not long afterward I had read this amazing story that Elsa had died in the Kenya bush of disease. Something of life that I learned early in my life that it was reality in the wilds of Africa or anywhere for that matter. But the cycle of life lives on in Elsa's pride. Still another grim incident ended the lives of Joy and George Adamson. Both were found murdered.<br /><br />Joy Adamson has left behind a legacy of these fascinating books that moves us to treat our world with respect and have a better understanding between human-animal relationship. Joy Adamson before her death had also written, 'Living Free: Elsa and her Cubs' and 'Forever Free: Elsa's Pride.' Her family extended even further across the grasslands of Africa as she tells about them in her other books, 'The Spotted Sphinx' (about Pippa the Cheetah), 'Pippa's Challenge,' 'Pippa: The Cheetah and her Cubs,' 'Queen of Shaba: The Story of an African Leopard,' and 'Friends of the Forest.' Joy Adamson's book 'Peoples of Kenya' reflects upon the life of the Kenyan people, her concern for the people welfare there and their struggles to make an existence in a harsh, beautiful land. If you want to know more about Joy Adamson read her autobiography, 'The Searching Spirit.'for the people welfare there and their struggles to make an existence in a harsh, beautiful land. If you want to know more about Joy Adamson read her autobiography, 'The Searching Spirit.'	2003-06-27
US	50623976	R2PSLYGITYXQJF	1580084575	903613466	Odd Jobs: Portraits of Unusual Occupations	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Well? Somebody's Gotta Do it!	This funny little ditty will make you feel better about your current job. If you collect the unusual books add this to your collection. You'll be chuckling to at least some of the outrageous and for real really odd jobs that exist, like-armpit sniffer, duck walker and doggy breath wiffer. It comes with humorous photos and delirious profiles. This would be a guaranteed conversation piece on any occasion.	2003-06-26
US	50623976	R2YR1DECKV2JDJ	0877880727	738440622	Christian Writers' Market Guide 2003	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Must Own Resource for Christian Writers!	Now there is someone who has made available and information resource for Christian Writers. Sally E. Stuart has compiled the comprehensive 'Christian Writers' Market Guide 2003' with all types of Christian publishing information. There is a large Christian market than one may expect and Stuart has researched this one well. You can only imagine the number of these markets are in access. I've added this to my much used and needed Writer's Resource shelf along with the 'Writer's Market' and 'The Writer's Handbook.' No Christian Writer should be without this valuable up-to-date marketing resource book.<br /><br />This can be used by the first-time writer or the publishing veteran. It's essential if you're wanting to get published in the Christian community. The contents in it's pages is al you'll need from any resource. This reference tool is completely updated and revised with 1,138 publishing markets, 379 book publishers, 678 periodicals, 81 specialty markets (greeting cards, video, CD and gifts) and so on. There's much more from agents and foreign markets to internet markets to contest. There's additional resources for book promotion, submission guidelines, writers' conferences, workshops and groups. All this makes this the most complete and accurate resource of any kind. I've contacted at least three resources with good success. If you want to get your work published in the Christian market this is the book!<br /><br />NOTE: An important rule mentioned in the book, DO NOT Rely Soley on the Information Provided in this Market Guide. It not intended to be complete by itself. It's important for your success as a writer that you learn how to use writer's guidelines and study book catalogs or sample copies before submitting to any publisher.	2003-06-21
US	50623976	RWW36OCQZ8D1K	0842336443	775448504	Are We Living in the End Times?	Books	5	5	11	N	N	Required Reading About the End Times &  'Left Behind' series	Tim LaHaye's 'Are We Living in the End Times' is a great supplement reading to help you follow the story line of the 'Left Behind' series. LaHaye uses excerpts from the various 'Left Behind series' books to explain where each one is laid out according to prophecy. It examines the current events foretold in scripture and what they mean. It clearly lays out current events as they relate with the scriptural timetable. The book contains picture diagrams and carefully outline explanations of every event from our present time to the end of the ages. This book gives lots of reasons for believing that the Rapture and the Tribulation could occur during our generation. It's look into future events are, at least to be appreciated for it's thorough study of Revelations and the prophetic books of the Bible.<br /><br />If you don't have time to read through all the 'Left Behind' books try this book as a shortcut to the last days and the signs of the times. Some events mentioned in the book have soon passed. But they do give close to a pinpoint prediction where we are in the prophecy timetable. Since September 11, 2001 begins the countdown what soon maybe the End Time. Another source suggestion is 'War on Terror' by Grant Jeffery. He explains the meaning of the catastropic events and how they fit into the End Time prophecy.	2003-06-17
US	50623976	R2VFWZM4BKKU56	0842332278	112772440	The Remnant: On the Brink of Armageddon (Left Behind)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Final Great Battle Is About to Take Place	'The Remnant,' book #10 of the 'Left Behind series' takes us to the brink of Armageddon. The Great Tribulation rages on and the forces of Evil and the armies of God prepare for battle. This is the prophecy of Revelation 13: 7. The remnant foretold are raised up [Daniel 7: 21, 25], judgements from God come down from Heaven [Revelation 16] and the AntiChrist pursues believers with a vengeance.	2003-06-17
US	50623976	RPT2P10O9YUQY	0842332294	321826248	Desecration: Antichrist Takes the Throne (Left Behind No. 9)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Worst Is Yet to Come	'Desecration,' book #9 of the 'Left Behind series' the AntiChrist takes the Throne. Nicolae Carpathia now raised from the dead to be the new AntiChrist. Nicolae commits his most heinous, diabolical act: the desecration of the Holy Temple. He claims the Throne as Lord of the Earth. As predicted in the book of Daniel ch. 9. The Tribulation Force (Rayford, Buck, Bruce and Chloe) and the world face the worse and prepare to do battle against the evil AntiChrist.	2003-06-17
US	50623976	RZVO8MMTQ6GFX	0842332251	34357729	The Mark: The Beast Rules the World (Left Behind #8)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Can the World Resist 'the Mark of the Beast'?	'The Mark,' book #8 of the 'Left Behind series' the Beast Rules the World. His Excellency Global Community Leader Nicolae Carpathia is resurrected and indwelt by the devil himself. The Beast tigthens his grip on the world. The Tribulation Force (Rayford, Buck, Bruce and Chloe) now undercover outlaws spread the truth about the AntiChrist. Can they help save millions from being branded with \\"the mark\\" that will seal their eternal doom? It is written in Revelation 14: 6-13. It is this time, that Jesus predicted in Matthew 24:14, the gospel would be preached throughout the world for a witness to all nations; and then shall the end come [Matthew 24:15-35].	2003-06-17
US	50623976	R3AH66HHJD46UI	0842329277	499654908	Assassins: Assignment Jerusalem, Target AntiChrist (The Left Behind Series)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	The Climax Esculates as the Great Tribulation Unfolds	'Assassins: Assignment: Jersalem, Target: AntiChrist,' book #6 of the 'Left Behind series' reaches it's climatic confrontation of the forces of good and evil battle for supermacy in a world without leadership. A Horde of 200 million demonic horsemen slays a third of the world population. The Tribulation Force face the future as fugitives risking their lives to warn others of the Great Deception of the AntiChrist. It's here that history and prophecy come together in Jerusalem for the most breathless and explosive episode in a plot to destroy the AntiChrist as foretold in Revelation 13:1-2.	2003-06-17
US	50623976	RP5HVKT7RO8H6	0842329161	264457002	Apollyon: The Destroyer Is Unleashed (Left Behind #5)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Tribulation Grip Tightens, Sets the Stage to Eternity	In 'Apollyon', book #5 in the 'Left Behind series' fulfills the prophecy of Revelation 9:6, \\"And in those days shall men seek death, and shall not find it; and shall desire to die, and death shall flee from them.\\" The plague of demon locusts are released to torture the unsaved. Their description are hideous as written in Revelation 9:7-12. The appearance of the two witnesses for the first 1,260 days of the Tribulation [Revelation 11:3-4] with their power and impact will save many new believers from the AntiChrist. With the growing threats of the AntiChrist, Nicolae, the Tribulation Force gather in Israel for the Conference of Witnesses as written in Joel 2:28-32.	2003-06-17
US	50623976	R9E3BCOWHGLXA	0842329285	858455094	The Indwelling: The Beast Takes Possession (Left Behind #7)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Danger Surmounts for Our Tribulation Force Heros	'The Indwelling,' book #7 of the 'Left Behind series' is set just midway through the seven-year Tribulation. The whole world mourns the death of the renowned man. Except those who know the truth. As Nicolae lay dead after being wounded, he is resurrected, the Beast takes possession [Revelation 13: 3-14] and the Tribulation Force faces it's most dangerous challenges yet. Now eternity and destiny of mankind hangs in the balance.	2003-06-17
US	50623976	RSGRU8993B5YO	0842332340	871070652	Armageddon: The Cosmic Battle of the Ages (Left Behind #11)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	The Final Battle of the Ages Is About to Begin	'Armageddon,' book #11 of the 'Left Behind series' is coming to a close. It's coming to less than a year until the greatest final cosmic battle of the ages begins. Armageddon is the final stand between good versus evil. Led by AntiChrist Nicolae Carpathia the evil forces have mobilized an enormous army in the Middle East and the faithful of God seem to be outnumbered. The Tribulation Force (Rayford, Buck, Bruce and Chloe) struggle to stay alive until the Glorious Appearance (Second Coming) of the Lord Jesus Christ. Through their ordeal they push onto their mission to minister the gospel to as many souls as possible. Enduring this time is difficult when three friends are murdered [Revelation 17: 6]. A plague of Darkness falls on Carpathia's city of New Babylon, but nothing will stop him. Only now the Hope that is to come will keep the Tribulation Force through the trial of their lives. The same Hope that kept them alive throughout the Tribulation, their redemption is close at hand [Revelation 18: 5-24].<br /><br />(PERSONAL NOTE: Even though I've enjoyed the 'Left Behind series' I feel that somehow it could have been shorter. Maybe it could have been told in just half the time in six (6) books instead of the soon to be twelve (12) books. But then I could be just bias.)	2003-06-17
US	50623976	RXWELEXKGXNEI	0842329153	316218934	Soul Harvest: The World Takes Sides (Left Behind, Book 4)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Battle Still Rages On!	'Soul Harvest,' The World Takes Sides, is book #4 of the 'Left Behind series.' After one catatrophic plague after another, the world will some experience the Trumpet Judgements as described in Revelation ch. 8 & 9. The pouring out of the Holy Spirit brings about the great Soul Harvest and the 144,000 Jewish witnesses are sealed of the twelve tribes of Israel [Revelation 7]. Rayford Steele and Buck Williams search for loved ones from different parts of the world. The journey takes you from Iraq to America, from the air to underground shelters, from the desert to the Tigris River. Steele and Williams do everything they can to hold off the destructive path of Nicolae-the Antichrist. The battle between hope and devastation rages on for the quest for truth and life.<br /><br />(NOTE: Also take a look at my other previous reviews written on the 'Left Behind series' to follow this exciting most talked about series-just click on my name above.)	2003-06-14
US	50623976	R2KVK06ENQ9KIW	0842329137	726324360	Tribulation Force: The Continuing Drama of Those Left Behind (Left Behind, Book 2)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Best Tribulation Drama Continues of those Left Behind	Tribulation Force is book #2 of the continuing drama of those Left Behind. So far our story focuses on four heroes-Raymond Steele, Cameron \\"Buck\\" Williams, Minister Bruce Barnes and Chloe Steele. They all join together to form the Tribulation Force. Once they learn everything that happened-it all comes together and makes sense. But with the disappearance it ushers in a seven-year Tribulation period. In this time, the earth will experience the most catatrophic calamities in its history. Those left on the earth face war, famine, plagues and natural disasters so devastating that only one on four people will survive. The situation is even worse for enemies of the Antichrist and his new world order. So the task of the Tribluation force is very clear-their goal is to stand and fight the enemies of God during the seven chaotic years the planet can ever fathom.<br /><br />(NOTE: Tribulation Force-Left Behind II is now on VHS & DVD. Also take a look at my other reviews written on the 'Left Behind series' to follow this exciting most talked about series-just click on my name above.)	2003-06-14
US	50623976	R3PSMSR1H8X98K	0842329145	940457812	Nicolae: The Rise of Antichrist (Left Behind, Book 3)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	It's Just Getting Started-Know the Truth	Nicolae, The Rise of Antichrist is book #3 of Left Behind. World War III has just begun and the worst is just beginning. The seven-year Tribulation is near the first quarter of what darkness is to come over the earth. Nicolae Carpathia becomes focus in what has come about the Global Community to which he consolidates his power. It is the time that \\"the wrath of the Lamb\\" is poured out upon the earth with the great earthquake. Our heroes, Rayford Steele and journalist Buck Williams who struggle to survive the global war and destruction. They know Nicolae is the Antichrist prophesied in the Bible. Carpathia's regime becomes from a benevolent leader to a cruel, ruthless tyrant whose evil agenda is destroy humanity. Steele and Williams do all they can to do the impossible-stop the Antichrist! The chaos and turmoil is described in John's prophecy in Revelation of the seven seals [Revelation ch. 6 & 7]. In the meantime secret all-night rescue missions from Israel through Sinai will leave you on the edge.<br /><br />(NOTE: Also take a look at my other previous reviews written on the 'Left Behind series' to follow this exciting most talked about series-just click on my name above.)	2003-06-14
US	50623976	R2MTEJJTVBV38B	0375757678	430089392	Due South: Dispatches from Down Home	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Down Home Southern Charm Done Up Right	R. Scott Brunner, ocassional commentator on Public Radio in Mississippi and NPR's 'All Things Considered' has written this Southern-fried ditty of humor and warm reminiscenes. 'Due South: Dispatches from Down Home' offers insight on life, family, relationship in Southern culture and language. It's a collection of essays reflecting upon brunner's memoirs that inspires and gives wisdom. Brunner's observations of Southern life as he tells it in a way Southerners talk and live the Southern way.<br /><br />From the Southern disclaimer &quot;Bless her heart' (Her hair may be blond, bless her heart, but her roots aren't) that became an art form. Culturally correct, a verbal kick in the pants masqueraded as a reassuring pat on the arm. It's fundamental influences of 'How to Rear a Southerner' (with apologies to William Faulkner-the multisyllabic wonder of language-Southern colloquialisms, home-grown, home-cooked food like fish fries, barbeque and cornbread with buttermilk and thriving on sweetea). Then there's customs and etiquette-dressing up for church, rocking chairs on the front porch, getting to know your next door neighbor, we all have an understanding that God, family, country and the nearest SEC football team are all sacred and worth fighting for. You're a true Southerner if you owned at least one Blackwood Brothers album and know who Vestal Goodman is.<br /><br />If 'Poo-poo Builds Character' in a southern soul then 'Home Cooking and World Peace' aren't too far behind. No pun intended. Who in the world would be so exotic as a Southern town? How would you like to live in a Mississippi town of Chunky? They'd call you a Chunky mayor or Chunky resident. That's a tough one. Add a few more unique names like Nitta Yuma, Pelahatchie, Hot Coffee and Bovina (where folks watch where they step). Southern romance nothin' like it anywhere else. The memories of a snuff-chewin', heavy sweatin' gal you loved when you were just five-years old. The sentiments are Southern smothered on every page from Southern Berlitz, Bible meetin's, sweet potato pie, fishing trips to Southern Provincial, the fox trot and Labor Day. 'Due South' is ful of charm and elegance with honest straightforward style. For the Southern fan a gift to cherish. Brunner reminds us about remembering the important things in life that makes us all different in our ways of tradition, history and culture. I tip my hat to a Southern masterpiece that belongs side Eudora Welty, Walker Percy, Flannery O'Connor and James T. Kennedy.hered on every page from Southern Berlitz, Bible meetin's, sweet potato pie, fishing trips to Southern Provincial, the fox trot and Labor Day. 'Due South' is ful of charm and elegance with honest straightforward style. For the Southern fan a gift to cherish. Brunner reminds us about remembering the important things in life that makes us all different in our ways of tradition, history and culture. I tip my hat to a Southern masterpiece that belongs side Eudora Welty, Walker Percy, Flannery O'Connor and James T. Kennedy.	2003-06-14
US	50623976	R2ADVEU9WKIM1F	0842329129	46316172	Left Behind: A Novel of the Earth's Last Days (Left Behind No. 1)	Books	5	0	3	N	N	A Great Series of Earth's Last Days in Biblical Prophecy	Left Behind, a fictional drama series that chronologizes the Earth's Last Days from the Rapture to the seven-year Tribulation period and the climatic end of ultimate battle-Armageddon. If you find this only a vanity entertainment to promote a commerically-driven product, it's how you approach it. It's a matter of looking deeper, reading prophecy in the Holy Scriptures and living in today's reality could spark something more as a warning of how life will be after the Rapture. The choice to believe is up to you.<br /><br />The first book of this series, begins as in one quick moment millions around the globe disappear. Vehicles are suddenly driver-less and veer out of control. People terror-struck at the disappearance of loved ones before their eyes. In the midst of global choas, Raymond Steele in search of his family, connects with his daughter, Chloe. They search for answers and the truth. Cameron \\"Buck\\" Williams of the Global Weekly pieces together the coming dark days from the Middle East in the Holy Land to the scheming undermind of a rising world leader and the great deception that is to follow. Tim LaHaye's 'Are We Living in the End Times' is a great supplement reading to help you follow the story line of the Left Behind series. LaHaye uses excerpts from the various 'Left Behind series' books to explain where each one is laid out according to prophecy. It examines the current events foretold in scripture and what they mean. It clearly lays out current events as they relate with the scriptural timetable. This book gives lots of reasons for believing that the Rapture and the Tribulation could occur during our generation. It's look into future events are, at least to be appreciated for it thorough study of Revelations and the prophetic books of the Bible.<br /><br />(NOTE: Left Behind-The Movie is now on VHS & DVD. Also take a look at my other reviews written on the Left Behind series to follow this exciting most talked about series-just click on my name above.).)	2003-06-14
US	50623976	R3BSKTQKZIDWCH	0394403797	816313715	LONESOME CITIES LTD EDIT	Books	5	8	8	N	N	McKuen's Best--'The Outstretched Hand'	My favorite book of love poems by the eclectic talent of Rod McKuen. He's written several poetry books, but this one's the best all because of the poem, 'The Outstretched Hand.' McKuen has done just about everything in life besides being a talented songwriter and entertainer. He's been a Radio D.J., composer, newspaper columnist and now best-selling author. He did the motion picture scores for, 'The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie' &amp; 'Joanna.' He's recorded 35 record albums of his own songs. He has published 'Stanyan Street and other Sorrows' in 1966 and 'Listen to the Warm.' If you want to know about Rod McKuen style this is a good place to start.<br /><br />Here's an excerpt from the book of 'The Outstretched Hand' (for Jay Allen):<br /><br />Each of us was made by God<br />and some of us grew tall.<br />Others stood out in the wind<br />their branches bent and fell.<br />Those of us who walk in light<br />must help the ones in darkness up.<br /><br />For that's what life is all about<br />and love is all there to life.<br /><br />Each of us made by God<br />beautiful in His mind's eye.<br />Those of us that turned out sowed<br />should look across our shoulders once<br />and help the weak ones to their feet.<br /><br />It only takes an outstretched hand.	2003-06-09
US	50623976	R28RDNI8A7CHAZ	0849951232	294876537	The Inspirational Study Bible New King James Version: Life Lessons from the Inspired Word of God	Books	5	52	54	N	N	Absolutely the Best Study Bible	I really love my Max Lucado Inspirational NKJV Study Bible. It's a wonderful study bible with many sidebars of life lessons of Lucado's teaching guides. This the only one I use because it helps me to have a better understanding of the Scriptures. Each Book of the Old and New Testaments are laid out in an instruction manual style. All chapters are boldly titled to explain the situation for each one. The Life Lessons examines more closely the situation, makes observations, gives inspiration, makes application and gives further explorations of other scriptures throughout the Bible. It's chalkful of footnotes of many reliable references. Throughout this study gem are more inspirational ancedotes from Grace, Forgiveness, Suffering and Victory to God's Love, Hope, Prayer and Faith. And many more worthwhile inspirations that will bless your life. Even more, it has one hundred greatest thoughts, an index to selected readings, a dictionary with topical concordance, acknowledgments from many great references from the most notable names in Christianity. There's even a place in the back to add your own notes. I'm sure this is the only study bible you'll ever use. I find it to be the most comprehensive, enriching masterpiece of the Holy Bible yet. I would definitely give this as a nice gift.	2003-06-09
US	50623976	R1C2Y1EQ5BMNWX	0765306700	877657194	The Man in the Arena: Selected Writings of Theodore Roosevelt: A Reader	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Excellent Compendium of the Writings of Teddy Roosevelt	What I remember about Theodore Roosevelt is that hilarious comedy, 'Arsenic and Old Lace.' Where the two crazy old ladies and their ready to be committed equally mental, bugle-blowing brother, Teddy Brewster who constantly fantasizes charging up the stairway and digging the Panama Canal in the basement. But, we're talking about the first president of the 20th century and the youngest to ascend the highest office. The real Roosevelt was a very amazing fellow and the most active of any American writer. He grew out of a sickly childhood and built strength through self-made physical fitness. He was the one to save football from extinction in 1905. He was fond of the West African proverb: &quot;Speak softly and carry a big stick, you will go far.&quot; With remarkable toughness and smarts he served as a New York legislator, New York governor, police commissioner of New York City, assistant secretary of the Navy, vice president, military colonel who led the Rough Riders in the Spanish-American War, the Indiana Jones of Amazonia and Africa, Nobel Peace Prize winner, a rancher, conservationist and father of six children. Now, that's a busy guy!<br /><br />In 'The Man in the Arena,' Brian M. Thomsen has collected some of TR's profilic writings including essays and extracts from various books by TR. All are brought together in one handy reference of information about TR's writings. In the 16 extracts Thomsen reveals Roosevelt as a historian, memoirist, adventurer and essayist. 'The Winning of the West' written in 1889 celebrates the American epic of expansion. Research was something Roosevelt was good at. He spent a huge amount of time in archives and took the facts from primary sources only. There are two chapters dedicated to TR's 'The Naval War of 1812,' a technically excellent but, dull book. So any war buff wanting an accurate history of the War of 1812 just refer to TR's book. 'The Rough Riders' chapter gives the reader an account of a vivid and even graphic description of what war really is like, and the bravery and gallantry of early American soldiers. 'Through the Brazilian,' an account of TR and his crew in 1914 explored regions no other white man tread from battling rough terrain, rugged living and hunting game. If only the leaders of today had TR's toughness and intelligence then we wouldn't be in the mess we're in. The 'Washington's Forgotten Maxim' is dedicated to his 1897 address to the Naval War College. His memorable words, &quot;to be prepared for war is the most effectual means to promote peace.&quot; The entertaining chapter, 'History as Literature,' TR argues that there is no reason why great history cannot be great literature with a great appreciation to Lucan and Macaulay. People assume history if it's accurate it's boring. He quotes H.G. Wells, &quot;history is the symbol of the creative will in man.&quot; Not only you will find this an educational, thrilling read but, you may want to explore further other citations he mentions in his writings.ion of what war really is like, and the bravery and gallantry of early American soldiers. 'Through the Brazilian,' an account of TR and his crew in 1914 explored regions no other white man tread from battling rough terrain, rugged living and hunting game. If only the leaders of today had TR's toughness and intelligence then we wouldn't be in the mess we're in. The 'Washington's Forgotten Maxim' is dedicated to his 1897 address to the Naval War College. His memorable words, &quot;to be prepared for war is the most effectual means to promote peace.&quot; The entertaining chapter, 'History as Literature,' TR argues that there is no reason why great history cannot be great literature with a great appreciation to Lucan and Macaulay. People assume history if it's accurate it's boring. He quotes H.G. Wells, &quot;history is the symbol of the creative will in man.&quot; Not only you will find this an educational, thrilling read but, you may want to explore further other citations he mentions in his writings.	2003-06-09
US	50623976	R2V5KKSG0MNC0B	1562925318	734692661	Breakfast for the Soul	Books	5	0	0	N	N	This Book is WOW!	Start your day right...sounds like an adage from a cereal commerical doesn't it? While why not start your day with the right nutrition for the soul. This powerful devotional can give you the spiritual vitamins you need to jump start your morning. It contains the collection of really insightful and inspired readings from the great preachers, saints, writers from the past and present. You gather all the wisdom filled with hope and advice from Billy Graham, Corrie Ten Boom, Catherine Marshall, C. S. Lewis, Charles Swindoll, Dwight L. Moody, Calvin Miller and many more. If you want a meditative reading, a quick inspiration or a scripture reminder to grow in God's grace you'll find it in this beautifully laid out devotional. This is a refreshing, spirit-lifter you don't want to be without it.	2003-06-09
US	50623976	R21Z6UA270ETN0	0971869413	564647181	The Jesus Thief	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Novel with Promising Potential for a Sequel	I'm not sure I how I should rate this book. But, I'm reviewing this by my reaction to what I've read in this book. I'm not sure to place this as a Christian-type fiction, or an adult-type fiction. But I do WARN you that there are adult type themes throughout this book. And the idea alone for cloning being a controversial subject. As a whole may have some Christians staying clear of this book. Or, it's how you may approach this. Simply it's just a fictious story. So use your own discretion. What got me to read it was my curiousity and my fascination of the Shroud of Turin.<br /><br />J. R. Lankford's story 'The Jesus Thief' is a high tech undertaking of the attempt to clone Christ. It centers around Dr. Felix Rossi a wealthy microbiologist who has a burning questions that leads to the investigation of the Shroud of Turin. Does the burial shroud contain the blood of Jesus? If so, is the DNA still intact? He must secretly conceal his work inside his Upper East New York home. Away from everyone at all costs. Even with the appearances of a reporter gets him to move fast. He must find a modern day Mary without further hesitation. He finds Maggie. The adventure takes you from New York, Italy, Georgia to Irish pubs and Harlem Churches in a journalistic style as if you're reading from Dr. Frankenstein's diary. It has the suspense of a mystery novel and the cliff-hanging drama of a thriller. Amidst all the confusion is a touching love story of searching for redemption and purpose.<br /><br />The author has done a brilliant job in writing this. As the author acknowledges her research with shroud.com and Barrie M. Schwortz in the end credits. Plus other medical and scientific contributions. The readers may find this a promising, well-done novel. I find it a good read that may be sequel material.	2003-06-09
US	50623976	RHO8UCMEKIXEQ	0849937531	105695624	He Still Moves Stones	Books	5	5	5	N	N	He Never Ceases to Amaze	No, He never ceases with His Loving Grace. What God had done in a time when he moved the stone from all suffering. He Still Moves Stones even now. He never changes. When everyone needs a miracle, he still does that department. It's the stones in our lives that keep us from seeing what God has done for us. The Bible is filled with people who had questions like we did. Max Lucado reminds us when God spoke to Moses at the burning bush still speaks to us. God forgave King David and still offers us forgiveness. God was with Joseph when he felt confused by God's actions. God heard Joseph's prayer and brought him out of adversity. Even God helped men and women through the ages still comes to you. He came to do what you can't to move the stone away to know his answer.<br /><br />When we're hindered by the obstacles that prevents us from fulfilling our hopes and dreams. We can rely on the Savior of Second Chances. The purpose of the stories inside this book is to tell what 'Jesus Does' NOT what he did. According to Paul, he said, \\"Everything that was written in the past was written to teach us. The Scriptures give us patience and encouragement so that we can have hope\\" [Rom. 15:4]. When there's nowhere to turn, there's a never-say-die Galilean who touched with kindness and words of mercy for a sad heart. He fulfilled the prophecy: \\"a bruised reed he will not break, and a smoldering wick he will not snuff out.\\" Even through the most deepest shame we have suffered. We must get help to see us through or we'll never see the dawn. When you hear the words from Jesus, \\"I don't judge you guilty, go and sin no more\\" [John 8:11]. Even when some of us are marked by bitterness. And at times we're called to love, expecting nothing in return. What have we learned from this? Is it what we have is more important than what we don't have. Even if our dreams don't happen, it's all right to dream again. But one things for certain. When our stone is too great for us to budge. There's always God, greater than any stone. From way back when and even now. Because He still moves stones. If you need any stones removed this is a great inspirational, helpful guide in setting you free.d, greater than any stone. From way back when and even now. Because He still moves stones. If you need any stones removed this is a great inspirational, helpful guide in setting you free.	2003-05-26
US	50623976	R2MIIPJ79MO9LM	1565848136	75199562	Blue Gold: The Fight to Stop the Corporate Theft of the World's Water	Books	4	14	17	N	N	Pirating our Water Supply	Blue Gold's a book to let you know more about where your water in America is going. Can we stop this theft of our most valuable resource. A study reports huge corporations seeking control of the world's water supply. These involve giant European corporations in collaboration with the World Bank. Together increasingly taking control of public water supplies with tragic results. a report 'The Water Barons' says that by 2002 private water companies were operating in 56 countries and 2 territories. This rose from a dozen in 1990. Companies that are expanding control are Suez Lyonnaise des Eaux and Vivendi Environment of France, Thomas Water by RWEAG of Germany, Suar of France and United Utilities of England working with Bechtel Co. of the United States. All of these have worked closely with the World Bank. They lobby aggressively for legislation and trade laws to require cities to privatize their water. A recent update is that these companies continue in their acquisition to control water companies in the Northeastern U.S. region.<br /><br />In major cities around the world, they persuade governments to sign long-term contracts with major private water companies. The concern, is that a handful of private companies could soon control a tremendous bulk of the world's most vital resource. Are water barons providing a good product? One certain city in the U.S. cancelled it's water contract because of complaints of poor service and unsanitary water conditions. In other countries and poorer countries were unable to pay huge water bills were forced to drink from disease-ridden lakes and streams resulting the spread of deadly epidemic outbreaks such as chlorea. In regions of the U.S. where ground water isn't enough to support domestic and fire protection water needs. It's necessary to develop alternative sources of water. The water crisis is worldwide. Many countries are facing a severe shortage. Some will run out of water by the year 2011. Can we find alternative ways to conserve our greatest resource. And, in the meantime can we stop the railroading of public water to greedy giant corporate barons. This book is a eye-opener. Another good reading on this subject is, 'Cadillac Desert.'nserve our greatest resource. And, in the meantime can we stop the railroading of public water to greedy giant corporate barons. This book is a eye-opener. Another good reading on this subject is, 'Cadillac Desert.'	2003-05-22
US	50623976	R2XABZNKVHTGPE	0688409814	975527345	If Jesus Came to My House	Books	5	19	20	N	N	A Beautiful Message---Plain and Simple	I always imagined myself what it would be like if Jesus did come to my house. What were some of the things I'd do, how would I act and what would I say? Then this little book came along. The little boy in this book imagines what it would be like if Jesus spent a day with him. If Jesus were a little boy like him he thought, he would share with him the best toys he had. By lending them to the poorest boys and girls. Even though Jesus maybe not have visited, the little boy hoped that He would bless his house for all the kindness and goodness he gave to those less fortunate. It teaches young children the Christian Golden Rule of sharing with one another. And, caring for your fellow friends that brings joy to everyone's heart. The gentle message tells children how to treat others with the love of giving. This should be a classic of children's books. It teaches a valuable lesson.	2003-05-20
US	50623976	R39ZLFQSC0RJSA	0802417078	956349631	The Second Thief	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Thought-provoking, Moving Tale of Second Chances	The Second Thief the third novel of Travis Thrasher, author of 'The Promise Remains' and 'The Watermark.' Writes this thought-provoking story about a desperate man, Tom Ledger, living on the edge in search of comfort and ease. It begins as Tom is willing to risk his own soul, maybe his own life by stealing his employer's closely guarded secret of vital company documents to the highest bidder. Not knowing what is going to happen to him-within hours of commiting his first crime. He's flung into a life and death drama. He boards an airplane along with one man, Kent Marks. The one man who will introduce him to the one thing that will save his life. Suddenly the airplane drops like a rock into a Nebraska cornfield. One thing of a miracle, he survives the crash. Now he faces what could be the final moments of his life.<br /><br />Even at the most crucial time Tom's attempt at prayer is self-serving. Like something out of the Twilight Zone, Tom walks away from the wreckage. Tom takes a journey through the seedy underworld searching for answers why he was spared from the accident. Why was he given a second chance? That's what Tom Ledger got. When we get second chances everyday. Tom had his second chance before his final journey. He meets Earl after his rescue. This old fellow helps him in his search for life and God. Then flashbacks and fast forwards of his aunt and uncle Dale & Lily, his estranged brother Sean and his former girlfriend, Allegra and the son he never knew, Tommy. Everything he left behind had come to find him. The second chances of making things right. Here he confronts his past and all the consequences he must encounters with all the corporate espionage, terror and even murder. Trying to connect with his past he makes life and death decisions. I'll leave the question to you, the reader. Will he make the choice to follow a path that will destroy everything that he ever held dear? Or, will he find another way to his redemption and salvation? Like Tom, if you were given a second chance. What would you choose? Just remember, the Thirty-Second Psalm [Psalm 32]. It sure let me see the light about second chances. Perhaps it will for you, too.u were given a second chance. What would you choose? Just remember, the Thirty-Second Psalm [Psalm 32]. It sure let me see the light about second chances. Perhaps it will for you, too.	2003-05-13
US	50623976	RI3HOUFU5T31Z	0374527229	198259676	Ex Libris: Confessions of a Common Reader	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Fun, Entertaining Book on Books & Language	Anne Fadiman's 'Ex Libris' kept me entertained with these light-hearted, hilarious essays about books. Ok, so she confesses of eing a bit obsessed with her passion. Her life long love affair with books and language has become chapters in her own life story. Fadiman admits she learned about [love] from her father's copy of 'Fanny Hill.' And at one time found herself reading a 1974 Toyota Corolla manual because it was the only thing in her apartment she hadn't read.<br /><br />Fadiman recounts a book lover's odyssey in her well-tuned personal essays. Finding her (\\"True Womanhood\\") in favorite anecdotes from Father Bernard O'Reilly. not seeing eye-to-eye, but thankful for him that she got to know her great-grandmother. In (\\"Marrying Libraries\\"), she didn't feel completely married without merging her and her husband's collection. Her well-worded apology on plagiarism (\\"Nothing New Under the Sun\\") is witty and raw. Her first introduction to books at the age of four, when she liked building castles (\\"My Ancestral Castles\\") with her father's pocket-sized twenty-two volume set of midnight blue 'Trollope.' Fadiman's addiction to long words (\\"The Joy of Sesquipedalians\\") would beat me in a game of scrabble. Just sitting at the breakfast table of the Fadiman's would bring new intellect to one's vocabulary. Thanks you, Carl Van Vechten! Would you know the meaning of monophysite, ithyphallic, aspergill or opopanax?<br /><br />Fadiman's happiness is a round-trip ticket to any used bookshop namely New York's finest (\\"Secondhand Prose\\") ponders the words of Henry Ward Beecher, \\"Where human nature so weak as in the bookstore!\\" The temptations of books kept her in good company with Southey and Macaulay. There are family members and friends who have brought me books on many occasions and I can relate to Anne Fadiman. I enjoyed this very much. It taught me to be wise, be a good speller, tackle big words and love books alot more.	2003-05-06
US	50623976	R2N2SUTET9ONM9	0195159020	759128469	The Irish Story: Telling Tales and Making It Up in Ireland	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Brilliant-Making Up Irish Tales of Past & Present	R. F. \\"Roy\\" Foster author of 'W. B. Yeats: The Apprentice Mage,' 'Charles Stewart Parnell: The Man and His Family' and 'Modern Ireland,' has written this experience and interpetation into Irish history and literature. He does a fine job of it. His bravery in massacring every sacred Irish cow as one would have fun reading it. It leaves you with a warm, passionate, giggly feeling. It's entertainingly brilliant look at the past and present Ireland. I particularly love the chapters and passages on Theme-parks & Histories (with some warning from Foster on expliotation); the chapters on Yeats; When the Newspapers Have Forgotten Me: Yeats, Obituarists and Irishness; Selling Irish Childhoods: Frank McCourt & Gerry Adams; and, Remembering 1798. They're totally smothered in clich&eacute;s and lots of traditional tidbits of fond or fatal memories, known to some as the Irish experience.<br /><br />Foster cleverly works moments of Ireland's past into narratives of Irish culture on myth, folklore, ghost stories and romance. The result is from a varied interpetation of opinionated and right down funny interlinking essays. In Theme-parks and Histories-Foster writes of the Irish are to remember or commemorate anything. It is worth remembering the upward curve of Irish cultural achievement-referring to W. B. Yeats, Hugh Leonard, Ezra Pound, Cashel Heritage Society and the 2,000-acre Famine Theme Park in Knockfierna Hill west of Limerick. Irish history, the most distinctive achievement for it. His suggestion to form a monument to Amnesia and forget where they put it. As a historian he would be shocked, but as an Irishman he would be attracted to the idea.  Foster shows no mercy on his view of manipulating Irish history on political places and Irish poverty and oppression as a commerically packaged heritage park. His exploration of Yeats' authority of the Irish story's fitting moments as the voice of his Ireland countrymen.<br /><br />Foster leaves teeth-marked criticism of Frank McCourt (Angela's Ashes) and Gerry Adams and their devil may care attittude of taking hostages for fortune. Transcending into the bestsellerdom of Irish childhoods. Simply a technique of marketing where Irish version brag and whimper about the woes of their early years' experience. I find this to be an entertaining reading. In some places a bit wordy, but good telling of Irish culture. You may hate or love it. But, if your interest is in Irish history and literature it's quite essential.rt (Angela's Ashes) and Gerry Adams and their devil may care attittude of taking hostages for fortune. Transcending into the bestsellerdom of Irish childhoods. Simply a technique of marketing where Irish version brag and whimper about the woes of their early years' experience. I find this to be an entertaining reading. In some places a bit wordy, but good telling of Irish culture. You may hate or love it. But, if your interest is in Irish history and literature it's quite essential.	2003-05-06
US	50623976	R10K1I0L3SAAC0	157854002X	10869896	The Omega Syndrome	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Suspenseful Thriller of Revelations before 'Omega Code'	This book was the first of any of the post-tribulation books ever written. It was written long before the 'Left Behind' books ever became known in print. How do I know? I was asked by the author of the book to do the graphic layout back in 1996.  I was given the manuscript and was asked to read it. I was amazed by the accurate detail of the book that tells of end time prophecy and how our world will be dominated by a \\"one government\\" society leaded by the Anti-Christ. In it's novel form the characters enact their story in a powerful portrayal of Biblical scriptures and actual modern day events as they unfold. The intensity to the climatic conclusion leave you wondering what will the devastation of a lost earth survive in the worst holocaust known to ever exist in all of written history. A year later, the movie 'The Omega Code' was released in selected cities across the U.S.. I attended the advanced screening and saw alot of similarities between the film and the book. Months afterward an article appeared in a local newspaper in my area. It's reported the author in a copyright infringement case of her book vs. the one's using key elements of the story to make the film. Much of the persons involved and the case itself is strictly confidential.  Actually, 'The Omega Code' film is from the book, 'The Omega Syndrome' by Sylvia Fleener. I just wanted to clear that up. If you like you can visit, omegasyndrome.com for more information. This book kept me reading through the night with the lights on. A good read to check out. This is an updated review from September 2000.	2003-05-04
US	50623976	R1TK48B6NZ7DG2	0195152727	796370180	Great God A'Mighty! The Dixie Hummingbirds: Celebrating the Rise of Soul Gospel Music	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Givin' God the Glory	Jerry Zolten, co-author of 'Speaking to an Audience' and writer for Living Blues magazine, has devoted his interest into the lives and music of The Dixie Hummingbirds. What would gospel be like today if not for the influence of singers like The Hummingbirds, Fairfield Four, Skylarks, Kings of Harmony, Radio Four, the Selahs among others? They brought to us the reality that gospel was poulated by every type of people you can name. All that travels the gospel road those that succeeded were the Dixie Hummingbirds for their spiritual qualities and their unique a-capella style. It was thier backbone and their success that kept them together until now. Before there was Rock-n-Roll there they were. They sang through history from the Depression, the World Wars, Korea and Vietnam and through the decades of changing pop culture. Now that perseverance and dedication rewarded them, this will be their 75th anniversary. They have their place in the American Music Hall of Fame.<BR><br /><BR>This is their story that began in 1920s Greenville, S.C. to their 1974 Grammy winning song 'Love Me Like a Rock.' Others made popular during their long career are, 'Christian's Automobile,' 'Have a Little Talk With Jesus,' 'Ezekiel Saw the Wheel,' 'Two Little Fishes & Five Loaves of Bread,' 'Let's Go Out to The Programs,' 'Savior Don't Pass Me By,' 'Devil Can't Harm a Praying Man,' 'I've Been Born Again,' and 'Wonderful to Be Alive' among a long line of memorable songs. James Davis and his friends began singing in a rural church. Their next 10 years would be jaunting from town to town, working radio stations, schools and churches. By 1939, the a-capella songbirds recorded their 4-part harmony spirituals on Decca. By 1942, they moved to Philadelphia and then New York with the Lester Young band they brought down the house each night at the Café Society. For there they catapulted into nationwide tours, major revord contracts, collaborating with Stevie Wonder and Paul Simon. And they're still going stronger as ever. There are interviews of the artists who worked with the Hummingbirds. The book brings out the vivid life that shaped the gospel singers and gospel music. In the words of Ira Tucker, Sr. at the anniversary roast, he said, \\"There have been a lot of people that have turned their backs on us. But you know what? The man upstairs sits high and looks low. That's who we have our faith and trust in, is God Almighty. I'd like to say this to you. It wasn't the money that kept the Hummingbirds out there.\\" In conclusion\\"....Don't think that we are finished. I'm glad not. AMEN. There are notes in the back of the book to further your search in Blues, Gospel, Jazz & Broadcasting with bibliography of books, articles, interviews, recordings & documentaries for more reading. n the subject of Blues, Gospel and those that influence the story of soul music, like Willie Dixon, Billie Holliday, Wynonie Harris, Mahalia Jackson and Josh White. Afterwards is a listing of the Hummingbirds recordings of their singles and albums, anthologies & collections, CD & Videos. Their collaborations with Marion Williams(Standing Here Wondering Which Way to Go), Melissa Manchester (Bright Eyes), Leon Redbone (Double Time), Harry Chapin (Living Room Suite), The Kennedys (Life is Large) and House of Blues-Music in the Air: The Dixie Hummingbirds 70th Anniversary Celebration and All-Star Tribute with Paul Simon, Stevie Wonder, Patty LaBelle, Wynonna Judd, Shirley Caesar and Vickie Winans. With all this, isn't that why they're so successful!	2003-05-02
US	50623976	R1WYAJ219KIE2G	1565123093	399969096	Girl Meets God: On the Path to a Spiritual Life	Books	4	1	7	N	N	Finding the Spiritual Life	Lauren Winner is the girl who meets God. She like the rest of us is wanting something to believe in. Winner expresses in a years time about her path to a spiritual life that shapes her Christian faith. She is the daughter of a Reform Jewish father and a Southern Baptist mother. She sees herself as an Orthodox Jew. The personal pilgrimage into her daily life as she observes the Sabbath rituals and studies Jewish laws, but only to find she is drawn closer to Christianity. So making this courageous step she converts. From here she reinvents another religious life in her small N.C. town. What she does is embraces the new but holds onto the old at the same time being spiritually whole. At this point this an account of the life one young woman's seeking the truth. Wouldn't it have been easier for her to pray to God to help her grow, and know this faith is found in His Son, Jesus Christ. Where there is no religion but finding the Cross.<br /><br />According to Lauren her world she shapes by her Jewish experiences. She applies Judaism to the teaching of the New Testament and struggles to fit her Orthodox friends into her new life. She tells of her honest confession of faith. Not to compare her with Anne Lamott's bumpy road to faith and her much more indepth into the spiritual road. This journey of twists and turns is a perfect guide for those seeking spirituality in today's complicated world. As I read about her changes through disciplines of prayer and beauty of thoughts. She has the passion of Stephen Dubner. She takes in the character of C. S. Lewis, raised on Flannery O'Connor and Michael Stipe. It give you a feeling living in the ancient Holy time yet retaining modern living. Like Elijah living in a small Southern-American town without being changed by the things around her. Winner's journey between Judiaism and Christianity is humorous and poignant. She reflects much on life of those around her and how they inspire her by the town's people, her family & friends, books and her deeper relationship with God.oks and her deeper relationship with God.	2003-05-02
US	50623976	R1I0VHE20S43VQ	0743234898	985224575	The Positive Principle Today	Books	5	13	14	N	N	The Positive Principle Keeps Going On and On Today and Alway	Dr. Norman Vincent Peale is author of 46 books including his bestseller 'The Power of Positive Thinking.' Most all the other books are practically on this subject. Why he's so compelled into this practice is his purpose to tell others of God's Awesome Power comes from every good thought. That's the power of miracles. In the 12 specific ways to keep the Positive Principle going, Dr. Peale shows you how to sustain and hold onto that power. By using the Positive Principle it all start with the seven (7) magic words...Remember...Don't be afraid, just remember these seven (7) magic words-&quot;I can do all things through Christ....&quot; Believe in the miracle of change, and let Jesus take charge of your own mind and heart.<br /><br />Dr. Peale also takes a new look at the word imPOSSIBLE without the IM attached. He relates of others the way they apporached the Positive Principle to reshape their lives. These people became the living miracles of God's Principle. Among those who succeed were Claude Bristol, author of 'The Magic of Believing,' Legson Kayira overcame obstacles over 3000 miles from one continent to another and wrote 'The Looming Shadow.' And the great salesman, Zig Ziglar, author of 'See You At The Top.' These men overcame the odds and came out on top of their greatest challenge.  It's no secret to those who believe...do you? Just have faith...nothing shall be impossible to you. Hold onto the thought that nothing can get you down. Always think up! Put your problems into God's Hands and leave them there. He will take care of you and bring things out right. Love cancels out gloomy, negative thoughts. Inspiration and Motivation are like nutrition. You need it everyday. Just a simple prayer has the power you need. Just Believe. Believe God will always make  a way where there is no way. Don't ever give up. Keep on trying. You can cope with anything, God will see you through anything, so stay close to Him. Always Believe you can. Remember Thomas Edison's words, &quot;If we did all the things we are capable of doing we would literally astonish ourselves.&quot; The power of Faith overcomes difficulties. All it takes is the grain of a mustard seed. Seek until you get a certainty of The Presence. A Great Someone is with you always. You're Never alone. Stay in Positive Thinking then miracles will start happening. Keep on going strong. Dr. Peale wants to hear from his readers so write him at c/o Foundation for Christian Living, Pawling, N.Y. 12564.&quot;If we did all the things we are capable of doing we would literally astonish ourselves.&quot; The power of Faith overcomes difficulties. All it takes is the grain of a mustard seed. Seek until you get a certainty of The Presence. A Great Someone is with you always. You're Never alone. Stay in Positive Thinking then miracles will start happening. Keep on going strong. Dr. Peale wants to hear from his readers so write him at c/o Foundation for Christian Living, Pawling, N.Y. 12564.	2003-05-02
US	50623976	RSVCT8NI73TJX	0764565478	525952065	Frommer's Ireland from $60 a Day (Frommer's $ A Day)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Best Guide for Traveling Ireland	I've tried different guides and I found I come back to the Frommer Guide. It contains more information that comprehensive and complete. Except maybe a few omissions. The [dollar amount] a day guide is handy for the thrifty traveler. It will help you find affordable accommodations and restaurants. My suggestion is if you're in Dublin be careful of some high prices. Sometimes it's best to check with the Tourist Board for the local budget fare. Most of the best bargains I found were by exploring the city. Most low prices are in the pubs and near the Temple Bar area. All the other places around Ireland are fairly reasonable. The guide contains lists of maps with two color city and regional maps, plus a large pullout road map. Also has tips for the best places and activities, and planning an affordable trip. All prices may vary though due to the High Season (Summer-higher prices) or the Low Season (Fall-Winter-lower prices). So the prices in the book is not always a reliable source. You may want to inquire. The book is sectioned by each county in the Irish Republic including Northern Ireland. Each attraction and establishment has description, address, contact and road information. There's a handy appendix to get an in-depth look at Ireland's history, folklore, music and food & drink. This is just about everything you need for a memorable and inexpensive trip.	2003-05-01
US	50623976	R1Y30OLIXHFQX3	0060006641	545117488	On Writing Well, 25th Anniversary: The Classic Guide to Writing Nonfiction	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Good Book on Writing Well	On Writing Well: The Classic Guide to Writing Nonfiction,  is one of the best on great advise. To me it's my bible for the makings of a good writer. It's style is well presented and easy to read. It's laid out for everyone who wants to learn how to write. It even helps those who need an extra boost in getting a writing job done. Especially in our age of the Internet. If you're writing about any subject from people, business, places, arts you name it, this book will assist you in the fundamentals of the written language. Written by William Zinsser who also wrote 'Writing to Learn' is a master at writing. He's has written for the New York Herald Tribune and write for leading magazines. Adding to his credits he wrote 'Mitchell &amp; Ruff', about jazz musicians Dwike Mitchell and Willie Ruff and recently, 'Easy to Remember: The Great American Songwriters and Their Songs.'<br /><br />Topics covered in this are the principles of the transaction in using the English language to achieve the greatest clarity and strength. Most important rule is the one of simplicity. Clutter is a killer. Remember the KISS rule. Keep It Simple Smartypants! Believe in your own identity and your own opinions. Style is important. Sell yourself, and your subject will express it's own appeal. Get to know your audience. For example E. B. White could write about anything and make it sound good. Even if it was chickens! For words, what could we do without them? The end of civilization in catastrophic propostions, right? Invest in a good dictionary, book of synonyms, a thesaurus and 'The Elements of Style.' Words are the only tools you got. Use them with originality and care. Always remember that somebody's out there listening. The book is chalk ful of such useful advice my review couldn't squeeze them all in. If you want the step in the write direction, I'd highly recommend this. You'll be using this and the &quot;Elements of Style' book by Strunk &amp; White. I know I am.	2003-04-29
US	50623976	R545UKJGFSXPJ	1585361135	796289084	E Is For Empire: A New York Alphabet	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Learning America State by State	This is a great idea put together! By taking the alphabet and teaching kids a neat way by using rhymes to learn A to Z interesting facts on history and culture about each state in America. I pick this one as my favorite about the state of New York. Each letter describes a featured N.Y. landmark, like B is for Brooklyn. H is for Henry Hudson the explorer from which the river is named after. I wish they had books like this when I was a kid. What's so bad about a book that can educate kids with lots of original, intelligent contents. All 50 states are fun to collect, too-because of all the really beautifully illustrated works.	2003-04-27
US	50623976	R230YUWYFTGWG8	0871161893	566711974	Writer's Handbook 2002	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Best Writer's Resource	If you were to use only two of the best writer's resources I would say that &quot;The Writer's Market&quot; and this book along with it as your main tools of marketing and refining your work. Why this book? This book contains about 60 articles of advice by the most successful writers in the business. Even for a beginner this may be the only book they'll use.<br /><br />It's packed with useful information. It's gives the writer techniques, inspiration and advice. Some of these techniques are discussed how to find more time to write, creating memorable characters and revising your writing. It evens tells you specific wways to market your work, designing your website and writing for niche markets. As an added plus there are over 3000 listings of markets and resources including 2000 magazines in 45 categories ranging from performing arts and religion to adult literary to juvenile. Each one with descriptions and contact information. There's 600 book publishers, plus organizations and a glossary. This is one source that will be referred to many times over. I know I have. This is one of the best writer's resource book you can get. I'm sure this is to be updated in 2003.	2003-04-25
US	50623976	R2Q5AOJTYLAQCE	0764227009	743191214	Angels Watching over Me (Shenandoah Sisters #1)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Friendship and Love Know No Boundaries	Angels Watching Over Me, is a story of two young friends Katie, a white girl and Mayme, a colored slave girl. Set in Shenandoah, sometime after the Civil War the two teens living just miles of each other meet after a tragic event. When the Civil War comes to an end Gangs of outlaw Confederate deserters sweep across the land in a murderous path through the South leaving both the girls orphaned. I found this to be a very heartwarming, God-touching story of love and friendship amidst all the pain and sorrow. These two girls from two different worlds miraclously survive their ordeal in a world turned upside down.<br /><br />Together both of the girls do whatever they can to stay safe as they hide out in the plantation once owned by Katie's family. In this story of survival, both of them grow in a new truth and faith in God. It is God who speaks to Mayme and she talks to him and listen to what He tells her to do. The two vow to keep things that have happened secret and manage things with God's help. When the girls come of age, they live together with Katie taking over the plantation. Through all the strengths and skills they reconstruct their lives by the mercy and grace of God. It was an amazing story of triumphant over bad circumstances. It encouraged me that no matter if you left alone in a dark world you can make it with the help of an Almighty and loving God.  So you can grow and make a life for yourself. No matter the odds, you can stand against anything when you got God on your side.	2003-04-24
US	50623976	R11499NJR4G6FR	1576739201	19556720	The Cross	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Cross--Beautiful and Inspiring	Max Lucado presents a lovely gift-sized book of The Cross. The book is filled with inspiring and beautifully photographed crosses that grace the pages. my favorite is the two branches naturally conjuctioned by nature in the form of the Cross. It reminds me that in God's wonderful creation tells us-He gave His Son, Jesus' Life for us. It's echoes everlasting in all living things. It celebrates the ancient sign of salvation and hope. Each picture is supported with an inspirational thought that comes from Lucado's books realting to Jesus' crucifixion, including 'And the Angels Were Silent,' 'God Came Near,' 'Six Hours on Friday,' and 'No Wonder They Call Him the Savior.' This would make a beautiful Easter (Resurrection Day) gift for anyone who has a love for crosses or wanting inspiring words to comfort the soul and a remembrance of Jesus' Love gift for us.	2003-04-19
US	50623976	R1HYB6L26DCGZ	0789484412	690328394	Detox Handbook (Healing Handbooks)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Get The Junk Out!	Dr. Jennifer Harper, a registered naturopathic doctor, with a PhD in natural health is an expert to body wisdom. She is a columist & contributor to several magazines on the subject. The Detox Handbook helps you in achieving a healthy body, glowing skin, a clear mind with safe information and detoxing methods, reliable resource of illustrated catalog of detoxing-superfoods, herbs & supplements. It's a guide to a range of programs. The book was written for reason why we need to detox. This program was developed to reduce the impact of toxins that effect our health everyday. And explains why it is neccessary for detoxification.<br /><br />The best way to use this book is strat from the beginning following every step. It's important to drink plenty of water to help the kidneys flush out toxins. Plus herbal teas and fresh fruit juices. The Liver, Kidneys and Colon are important organs to help in this process. And to keep them healthy it's vital for proper toxin removal. The process is done in 3 Levels: Level I, Level II, Level III. The book goes into detail of the foods and supplements used in each Level. It's completely informative so that you can refer back. It helps you plan a dietary Detox program of healthy nutritional foods such as oatmeal porridge mixed with applesauce, fruit-live yogurt smoothies with fresh enzyme-rich papaya, pineapple, berries, grated apple and pear. And that's just for breakfast! Not only does it have healthful foods but a comprehensive program of Herbs & supplements (i.e. Garlic, Milk Thistle, Glutathione), oil & flower remedies, meditation and exercise to help detox, cleanse and give you energy. Quoting from Thomas Moore-\\"The Great Malady of the 20th Century, is loss of soul. When the soul is neglected, it doesn't just go away; it appears in obsessions, addictions, violence and loss of meaning. If the soul's capacity for creativity is not honored it will wreck havoc.\\" How true this is! Take a look around us. I'm sure keeping well is starting with taking care of our bodies and getting all the junk out. This book can help.ng with taking care of our bodies and getting all the junk out. This book can help.	2003-04-19
US	50623976	R2V8LTH9JELOPP	080106404X	31234580	More Than Words: Contemporary Writers on the Works That Shaped Them	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Great Writers that Shaped Authors	What makes a great writer or even a good one is to have a relationship in great writing. It has the power to stimulate the imagination, generate creativity and help us make sense of the world around us. From the pages of this book are some of the most fascinating essays of 21 popular Christian authors share then stories of how they were influenced by literary masters and thier works. These intimate insights into the works of J.R.R. Tolkein influenced Stephen R. Lawhead by his power to move readers through his great epic of 'The Ring.' Eugene H. Peterson, when at the most crucial time in his life found Fyodor Dostoevsky's passion for God made a difference in his life. By reading the story of Walter Wangerin Jr's favorite author, Hans Christian Andersen fairy tales helped him deal with life in a troubled family.<br /><br />Philip Yancey, compiler of the book tells his story how John Donne taught him how he thought about pain. Yancey has written, 'The Jesus I Never Knew,' 'When Is God When It Hurts,' 'Disappointment with God,' 'What's So Amazing About Grace,' and 'Soul Survivor.' Yep, this guy knows about the subject! James Calvin Schaap, editor of the book, learns from Sherwood Anderson's, 'Winesburg' that no matter what you hometown's like, you can always be redeemed in it's serenity of life and the people. Schaap has written, 'Things Hoped For, Things Not Seen,' 'Paternity,' 'Romey's Place,' and 'The Secrets of Barneveld Calvary.' Others I need to mention are those influential works of Henri Nouwen, Flannery O'Connor, Charles Dickens, Ray Bradbury, T. S. Eliot have not only inspired the ideas the authors telling their stories, but I'm sure has touched everyone in some way to open up new visions in their own lives. I really enjoyed this book immensely. It's like you're sitting in on a great conversation. After each story there is a short reading guide at the end to invite you to explore these classic works in depth. I find this to help any writer or anyone for that matter in their quest to being a better person and even a better writer.matter in their quest to being a better person and even a better writer.	2003-04-19
US	50623976	R3D75N3APRQT0F	0801063795	868515452	Unexpected Wisdom: Major Insight from the Minor Prophets	Books	5	7	7	N	N	BIG Things in Small Places	Dan Schmidt uncovers the truths of the 12 little prophets placed towards the back of the Old Testament. Their names, Hosea, Joel, Amos, Obadiah, Jonah, Micah, Nahum, Habakkuk, Zephaniah, Haggai, Zechariah and Malachi don't recieve star billing like Matthew, Mark, Luke and John. Schmidt explores the hidden wisdom and discernment and true nature of the situation. I think Schmidt did a great job in digging into these writings and shows us that the little prophets' messages are spiritually time-tested truths. The messages in each book illustrate many themes of grace, wisdom, suffering, courage and hope. All of them have something in common. They let the reader know that God loves His children and He always calls His people back to Him.<br /><br />The message of regaining faithfulness in the life of Hosea. A grace of forgiveness in Jonah, after being swallowed by a big fish, reluctantly went to Nineveh and found that people there were responsive. Encouragement and hope in Zechariah urged God's people to build the temple that pointed toward the coming Messiah (Jesus). Wisdom in Malachi who faced a nation that had grown indifferent to God. He sought to turn them back. Each prophet was an example of God's Love and Grace. You'll be saying, &quot;There are BIG things happening in little places!&quot;	2003-04-19
US	50623976	R1V2C126C6237Z	0312311338	733870390	McCarthy's Bar: A Journey of Discovery In Ireland	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Your Best Traveling Companion in Ireland!	Pete McCarthy's travel book, McCarthy's Bar: Journey of Discovery in Ireland traces his steps around Cork to the West and other Irish places. He returns to his home where he grew up. He meets intriguing Irish folk and other travelers and shares their outlandish tales. Pete was born in Warrington to an Irish mother and an English father. On his journey he visits relatives in childhood home of Drimoleague, West Cork. He is a writer and performs on Radio &amp; TV including 'Desperately Seeking Something' and 'Travelog' which he won the Travelex Award for Best Travel Writer. This is his first book, and the #1 bestseller in Europe. He's right up there with fellow travelogues, Michael Palin and Bill Bryson.<br /><br />I acquired this on my recent visit to Ireland. It makes for a good travel companion. It made my trip more memorable. McCarthy kept me entertained with his funny anecdotes, keen observation of what it means to be Irish, exploration and filled with mad craic and some Celtic history thrown in. Some highlights, are his bog standard vehicle he dubs 'The Tank,' he returns to his former home in West Cork to visit relatives. His secret hiding place called 'The Convent.' He meets locals and other travelers as they share their stories. There are pages of hilarious moments and wild episodes of sheer fun. Listing his rules of 'McCarthyism' on travel. No. 8, Never Pass a Bar that has Your Name on It. Upon his encounters he makes references to Jeremy Iron's castle in Baltimore, Eiri Na Greine, a Japanese Irish band with a story that ran in the Examiner: Why Japan is Going Ga-Ga Over all Things Gaelic. I shouldn't mention, but hope it doesn't become another tourist trap-Clonakilty, a picture book Irish town famous for it's black pudding and Michael Collins. Skibbereen the epicentre of the great Famine is one of his quiet moments. To enlighten, No. 3 rule of travel, Never Bang on About How Wonderful Some Unspoiled Place is Because Next Time You Go There. You Won't Be Able to Get In. Speaking of enlighten, let's not get into the three day pilgrimage to Croagh Patrick. Some hilarious references he makes to German tourists desperately being Irish. So they buy Irish homes, fix them up and resale them. His trip from Wales with a couple he meets up with making elaborate sleeping arrangements. He joins them near the carpet underneath a table and ponders the arbitary cruelty of life. How's that for accommadations?<br /><br />His descriptions of some Co. Cork places &amp; the wanna be Irish in Killarney will always have me thinking I was with Pete myself. McCarthy's Bar is full of vividness and reflects a portrait of a rapidly changing Ireland. For example, Knock, a little village with a little shrine now a huge modernist basilica complex with eighteen self-service holy water fountains with a new airport. So you can fly in, pray, buy stuff &amp; fly out. Anyone out there with a foresight of opening an Indian restuarant around Tubbercurry? Keep that in mind. There's a 'Guns 'N' Roses' florist, world's first paramilitary flowershop. Only in Ireland, right? The sentiments go on and on. All the names associated with Ol' Eire like, the Guinness ads, Daniel O'Donnell, Oscar Wilde, Elvis Costello and U2. It's like being in a Road Movie. I can't wait to read the sequel, 'Road to McCarthy.'to Get In. Speaking of enlighten, let's not get into the three day pilgrimage to Croagh Patrick. Some hilarious references he makes to German tourists desperately being Irish. So they buy Irish homes, fix them up and resale them. His trip from Wales with a couple he meets up with making elaborate sleeping arrangements. He joins them near the carpet underneath a table and ponders the arbitary cruelty of life. How's that for accommadations?<BR><br /><BR>His descriptions of some Co. Cork places &amp; the wanna be Irish in Killarney will always have me thinking I was with Pete myself. McCarthy's Bar is full of vividness and reflects a portrait of a rapidly changing Ireland. For example, Knock, a little village with a little shrine now a huge modernist basilica complex with eighteen self-service holy water fountains with a new airport. So you can fly in, pray, buy stuff &amp; fly out. Anyone out there with a foresight of opening an Indian restuarant around Tubbercurry? Keep that in mind. There's a 'Guns 'N' Roses' florist, world's first paramilitary flowershop. Only in Ireland, right? The sentiments go on and on. All the names associated with Ol' Eire like, the Guinness ads, Daniel O'Donnell, Oscar Wilde, Elvis Costello and U2. It's like being in a Road Movie. I can't wait to read the sequel, 'Road to McCarthy.'	2003-04-18
US	50623976	R2QBFSOA481519	0786806613	880690150	Penny Lee and Her TV	Books	5	2	2	N	N	More to Life than Just TV	Glenn McCoy's animated and darling story of Peggy Lee and her dog Mr. Barkley. The problem is that Peggy Lee has a TV. She loves the TV so much she forgets about her best friend, Mr. Barkley. Sad Mr. Barkley loves Penny Lee, but NOT the TV. He does whatever he can to get her attention. But, Penny Lee keeps watching that TV. Then one day Penny Lee's wakes to find her TV screen black and broken. Is it a way Penny Lee must quit her TV watching cold turkey? This is Mr. Barkley's chance to help his best friend. On the way to the repair shop they find fun ways to play with each other. Mr. Barkley is so happy to get his friend back, to do fun stuff with. That night Penny Lee slept and had commercial free dreams.<br /><br />This is a delightful story for children that teaches the lesson that there is more to life than just TV. If you have a couch potato junkie in your house give them this book to read. Reading is another fun activity that's more creative and educational. Glenn McCoy does an excellent job in telling this story that TV can take away your most important time to do other more important things. What's more important than being with your family and best friends? It's a great big, world out there NOT to enjoy it. McCoy uses his comic skills to create Penny Lee and Mr. Barkley. McCoy is the comic strip cartoonist for the famed 'The Duplex.' I'm sure the young one at home will find this one of their favorites. I just love children's books. This is one of my favorites!	2003-03-22
US	50623976	R2NP17CD2BB1EJ	1586602411	748864027	The Layman's Bible Dictionary	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A Nice, Compact Resource to Help Understand the Bible	The Layman's Bible Dictionary edited by George W. Knight & Rayburn W. Ray contains over 2,500 entries from A to Z. It's comprehensive and accurate. It's laid out so that it's easy to understand. Key words are based on the King James Version, but one can use any bible version. Each entry is cross-referenced with the scripture for indepth study. It's very helpful in explaining all the obscure terms of the KJV Bible. It's simply written that anyone with very Bible knowledge can understand. Every entry is concise with essential facts about the most significant Bible people, places, things and ideas.<br /><br />I find this to be practical and reliable. For added interest it's illustrated with about 27 black and white photographs. It's a great compact size to keep handy along with your Bible for a quick reference. I think this is an excellent resource for students or anyone wanting to expand on their Bible knowledge. It'a also priced just right. I'm sure this would be a valuable source of information to those who are eager to learn more about the Bible. What is NOT included is the pronunciation of names. An excellent source in this area is 'Pronouncing Bible Names' by W. Murray Severance. My other choice for reference would be the 'Eerdmans Dictionary of the Bible' by Allen Myers, 'Dictionary of Paul & his Letters' by G.F. Hawthorne  and 'Oxford's A Dictionary of the Bible ' by W. Browning as extended supplemental study.	2003-03-19
US	50623976	R3H4MA9IOCHGCL	1576733882	890056717	No Wonder They Call Him the Savior: Chronicles of the Cross	Books	5	3	3	N	N	No Wonder Such A Wonderful Book	Is it ever a wonder that Max Lucado is truly anointed by the Lord to touch your heart? In 'No Wonder They Call Him the Savior: Chronicles from the Cross', Lucado gets to the heart of the matter. Even to his Irish friend, Ian who had been there and done that. Tired of religion and theology. When everything else seems empty. What really mattered? He wanted treasure. The answer: The Cross.<br /><br />As it is written, from Paul in I Corithians, chapter 15.<br /><br />For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received, that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the scriptures....<br /><br />From the Cross comes Words spoken in the Lord's final acts. The words come from Luke, chapter 23. He spoke to all of us through time. He saw each one of us. From His suffering, His pain and His shame to our sickness, our sin and our doubt. His cry, &quot;Father, forgive them.&quot; [Luke 23:34] was enough. To all the Bernhard Goetz's who lash out in anger for injustice. There is justice. To the criminal who died on the Cross next to the Savior there is hope. For those finding a way out there is pardon and forgiveness. To the solider or missionary who leaves loved ones behind. For Love is built NOT on passion and romance but on mission and sacrifice. That eternity is closer than any Good-bye, but in reality 'see you soon.' To all the Judith Bucknell's who cry in loneliness. He reached out from the Cross to your lonely heart. It was Jesus in his hour of abandonment, 'My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?' [Matthew 27:46]. When no one else loves you. He is going to love you. He always has. He was fulfilling prophecy. When you're tired and thrist. He knows that, too. God became flesh and dwelt with us to know everything we have ever done with compassion He carried it with Him to the Cross.<br /><br />The witnesses who were there and saw the miracle of salvation. Even those who ran away. There was a great price paid. He sacrified His life. We all know what had happened that day. The message is in our tears. No education, maturity or religion can separate us from His passion. From the Cross' wisdom comes the open arms of undying Love and a place to come home to. Only that wisdom lies NOT as men sees it, but in Faith in the Power of God. The evidence in an empty tomb. So what does really matter to you? I'd say a living God in the flesh, making  the most important decision in your life, to spread the news 'in an information age, NOT regeneration.' In Jesus' words, 'Will you tell them?' 'Will you tell them I came back and that I'm coming back again.' Will you?<br /><br />NOTE: Contains a Study Guide at the end for each chapter for further study plus added notes. To Max, May God continually Bless you as you Bless us with your gift. In the Love of Jesus.happened that day. The message is in our tears. No education, maturity or religion can separate us from His passion. From the Cross' wisdom comes the open arms of undying Love and a place to come home to. Only that wisdom lies NOT as men sees it, but in Faith in the Power of God. The evidence in an empty tomb. So what does really matter to you? I'd say a living God in the flesh, making  the most important decision in your life, to spread the news 'in an information age, NOT regeneration.' In Jesus' words, 'Will you tell them?' 'Will you tell them I came back and that I'm coming back again.' Will you?<BR><BR>NOTE: Contains a Study Guide at the end for each chapter for further study plus added notes. To Max, May God continually Bless you as you Bless us with your gift. In the Love of Jesus.	2003-03-19
US	50623976	R2B5S8Q6DVHRQS	1889893544	260094882	Windows of Wisdom: Fresh Views on Proverbs' Truths	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wisdom for Every Day of the Month	Dr. Stephen F. Olford, born in Africa of missionary parents and educated in England. In 1953, became pastor of Duke Street Baptist Church, Richmond, Surrey. From 1959-1973 was senior minister of the famed Calvary Baptist Church of New York City. He hold a doctorate in theology and is author of 'Anointed Expository Preaching,' 'The Way to Holiness: Signposts to Guide Us,' 'The Christian Message for Contemporary Life: The Gospel's Power to Change Lives,' 'Not I, but Christ' (with Billy Graham), 'Going Places with God' and many more.<br /><br />Windows in Wisdom, is the book of Proverbs. It was written during Mr. Olford's bout with cancer. God's Word and Spirit sustained him. As a result of his faith, Olford's wrote this collection of \\"wisdom sayings\\" presented in a practical way for daily modern living. Each Proverb deals with the ethical and moral aspects of godly behavior. The key word in Proverbs is wisdom. There are thrity-one chapters in Proverbs-that's one for each day of the month. Every devotional theme is explained and applied from the selected verses. These enable you to follow the expositions and meditations with helpful supporting references from scripture.There are windows of light on God's message. These help you to look through it's meaning. This bring's to mind Proverbs 25:11, \\"A word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in pictures of silver.\\" Each devotional helps you think in applying the truth to your daily life. Meditation helps to discipline ourselves. That's when Prayer enters. Receiving what the Holy Spirit has said to us we pray to enable Grace to obey the truth that has been revealed to us.<br /><br />I find it helpful in that it helps the person to seek the wisdom he or she desires in their life. It will strengthen them in the right use of knowledge. It's designed to help them develop prayer and meditation in their daily walk with Christ. These beautiful wisdoms go anywhere with you from Quiet Time to church gatherings and preaching.	2003-03-19
US	50623976	R3K5A1UW5CIZHE	1576733882	890056717	No Wonder They Call Him the Savior: Chronicles of the Cross	Books	5	0	0	N	N	No Wonder Such A Wonderful Book	Is it ever a wonder that Max Lucado is truly anointed by the Lord to touch your heart? In 'No Wonder They Call Him the Savior: Chronicles from the Cross', Lucado gets to the heart of the matter. Even to his Irish friend, Ian who had been there and done that. Tired of religion and theology. When everything else seems empty. What really mattered? He wanted treasure. The answer: The Cross.<BR><br /><BR>As it is written, from Paul in I Corithians, chapter 15.<BR><BR>For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received, that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the scriptures....<BR><br /><BR>From the Cross comes Words spoken in the Lord's final acts. The words come from Luke, chapter 23. He spoke to all of us through time. He saw each one of us. From His suffering, His pain and His shame to our sickness, our sin and our doubt. His cry, &quot;Father, forgive them.&quot; [Luke 23:34] was enough. To all the Bernhard Goetz's who lash out in anger for injustice. There is justice. To the criminal who died on the Cross next to the Savior there is hope. For those finding a way out there is pardon and forgiveness. To the solider or missionary who leaves loved ones behind. For Love is built NOT on passion and romance but on mission and sacrifice. That eternity is closer than any Good-bye, but in reality 'see you soon.' To all the Judith Bucknell's who cry in loneliness. He reached out from the Cross to your lonely heart. It was Jesus in his hour of abandonment, 'My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?' [Matthew 27:46]. When no one else loves you. He is going to love you. He always has. He was fulfilling prophecy. When you're tired and thrist. He knows that, too. God became flesh and dwelt with us to know everything we have ever done with compassion He carried it with Him to the Cross. <BR><br /><BR>The witnesses who were there and saw the miracle of salvation. Even those who ran away. There was a great price paid. He sacrified His life. We all know what hadhappened that day. The message is in our tears. No education, maturity or religion can separate us from His passion. From the Cross' wisdom comes the open arms of undying Love and a place to come home to. Only that wisdom lies NOT as men sees it, but in Faith in the Power of God. The evidence in an empty tomb. So what does really matter to you? I'd say a living God in the flesh, making  the most important decision in your life, to spread the news 'in an information age, NOT regeneration.' In Jesus' words, 'Will you tell them?' 'Will you tell them I came back and that I'm coming back again.' Will you?<BR><BR>NOTE: Contains a Study Guide at the end for each chapter for further study plus added notes. To Max, May God continually Bless you as you Bless us with your gift. In the Love of Jesus.	2003-03-19
US	50623976	R39H8PNBKJWEQR	0004707532	62050301	Collins Gem Irish Dictionary	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Handy Irish Dictionary--NOT a Course in Gaelic	Collins Gem Irish Dictionary, editors S&eacute;amus Mac Math&uacute;na and Ailbhe O' Corr&aacute;in is a user friendly, comprehensive up-to-date wordlist of English-Irish to Irish-English. It's a dictionary for looking up words just like the Webster or the Oxford. It does NOT contain any pronunciations of the words in Irish. It does contain abbrevations. The middle section is useful Irish grammar that includes extensive tables of regular and irregular verbs and noun declensions and key English words makes it an invaluable reference tool. The back section contains numbers used in counting and with nouns and time.<br /><br />If you are learning to speak the Irish Gaelic language, I'd recommended you to try a lesson course with book that has pronunciations and a cassette to follow along. Some tips would be 'Learning Irish' by Micheal O'Siadhail, 'Irish Grammar' by Noel Mogonagle and 'Irish on Your Own' by Eamon O'Donaill. Some of these can help on the basics of learning the language. This compact source is handy to carry around with you if you're traveling. It seems to sell fairly well in Ireland where I got my copy while in Dublin. My other option to learning the language is to take a course well in a creditable school that teaches it. Also check through Eason &amp; Sons in Ireland for Gaelic textbooks. Eason.ie is an excellent source in Irish books.	2003-03-19
US	50623976	RHC2KEHWPXNIP	1572160179	625279142	Recipes from Ireland	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Easy to Follow, Original Irish Recipes	Recipes from Ireland by Joanne Asala, author of 'Celtic Folklore Cooking' and 'Whistling Jigs to the Moon: Tales of Irish and Scottish Pipers and Legends of Irish Saints and Sinners.' All of her books are entertaining to read. Asala was born in Chicago has a love of Celtic lore that has taken her to United Kingdom and Ireland, where many of these recipes were gathered from people who still cook the same as their ancestors did. All of the recipes in this spiral bound book are very simple to make. If you're just beginning, this would be a good start in Irish cooking. The book is great fun to learn as it has some interesting history thrown in the pages.<br /><br />The most interesting history is how poteen (poit&iacute;n), what we come to know as 'Mountain Dew' or 'Moonshine' had it's origins in Ireland and brought to the Appalachian Mountains! The recipes are categorized by Beverages, Breads and Porridges, Milk, Eggs and Cheese, Soups and Stews, Potatoes and Other Vegetables, Fish and Shellfish, Meat and Wild Game and Desserts. The original Irish coffee came from Co. Clare by Joe Sheridan as a pick-me-up for transatlantic travelers. He used hot black coffee, 1 1/2 oz. Irish Mist Liqueur and 2 Tbsp. whipped cream. The best breads are the Brown, Barm Brack and the Treacle (Molasses) Bread. Boxty is the original potato cakes or pancakes. They're great with butter and sugar. Lots of popular favorites are included like Traditional Irish Stew and Colcannon. The authentic stew does NOT have carrots in it. Only Lamb neck chops, potatoes, onions, seasoned with parsley and thyme, salt and pepper. The potato was the only staple in the Irish diet before the Great Famine of 1845-1849. The consequences of the crop blight was catastrophic. 1 million Irish perished from starvation while 1 1/2 million emigrated to the U.S. My favorite section was the Fish and Shellfish. The Baked Cod and Bacon were wonderful. Other favorites, Grilled Mackerel, Mushroom and Scallop Pie, Baked Salmon, Baked Trout and Pickled Herring. For those who love lobster there's Dublin Lawyer. My recent trip to Ireland is that the fish market has grown with a large variety of seafood like, monkfish, John Dowry, blue hake, oysters and mussels. While on your visit go to the Old English Market, Cork City, Co. Cork for a great adventure in traditional Irish food!<br /><br />The front cover photograph view of Clifden, Connemara is by Patrick Costello. It brought back memories of seeing the town from the Sky Road. A breath-taking view! This spiral bound book is small, easy to carry around anywhere. In addition to things Irish, it contains the legend of the shamrock, the Irish flag and Irish Sites in America. This would be something to give to a family member who loves to cook and like ethnic cooking. They make good stuffers into a stocking for a nice Christmas gift.Trout and Pickled Herring. For those who love lobster there's Dublin Lawyer. My recent trip to Ireland is that the fish market has grown with a large variety of seafood like, monkfish, John Dowry, blue hake, oysters and mussels. While on your visit go to the Old English Market, Cork City, Co. Cork for a great adventure in traditional Irish food! <BR><br /><BR>The front cover photograph view of Clifden, Connemara is by Patrick Costello. It brought back memories of seeing the town from the Sky Road. A breath-taking view! This spiral bound book is small, easy to carry around anywhere. In addition to things Irish, it contains the legend of the shamrock, the Irish flag and Irish Sites in America. This would be something to give to a family member who loves to cook and like ethnic cooking. They make good stuffers into a stocking for a nice Christmas gift.	2003-03-19
US	50623976	R31S3MW0QLCCC9	0849940737	301797154	The Great Escape: Preparing for the Rapture, the Next Event on God's Prophetic Clock	Books	5	9	13	N	N	What if....?	Jack Van Impe's 'The Great Escape' lays out the plan of avoiding the tribulation. I don't understand why other reviews give this such a negative rating. I guess my question is:  Do they believe if there is such a thing? If this is the case then the words of Jesus Christ are all in vain.<br /><br />What if it did happen? Then what would you do in the meantime? What if there wasn't a Heaven or Hell? I wouldn't want to find out the latter, if I missed Heaven and was destinied for Hell. But we all have a choice to make in this life. It's the one greatest and most important decision we'll make in our lifetime. It's a choice we'll make for eternity.  I do respect the Van Impe's work as do I for Billy Graham, D. James Kennedy and Hal Lindsey. They all agree on one thing that they do believe by their faith in Jesus Christ that He is returning to this earth some day soon. I'm always fascinated by this subject. How the scriptures and current events are merging together to bring about this end time event. As we all can see what is happening in the world today with all the violence, immorality and turmoil plaguing the planet is a sign that the end is near. You can only read for yourself not just this source but you can also compare others as well. My suggetion is read Van Impe's 'Israel's Final Holocaust', D. James Kennedy's 'Why Was America Attacked?' and Hal Lindsey's 'The Final Battle.' If these don't convince you then nothing else will. My hope is that you will seek the Lord and He will reveal it to you. That is if you believe?	2003-03-16
US	50623976	R17W4PAAT3WCVG	0934803080	617509247	Israel's Final Holocaust	Books	5	5	8	N	N	The Key to the Future's Final Destiny	Jack Van Impe's 'Israel's Final Holocaust,' centers around Israel in history and in future prophecy. Without it, it would be impossible to know God's plan to know the future of Israel. The book shows how the Bible predicted the exact history of the Jewish people from the fall of Jeruslaem to the present returning to the homeland. These prophecies have been fulfilled. Now what of the future? Are we living in the end times? Hanging in the shadows are the events: the Rapture of the Church, the Tribulation, Antichrist, Armageddon and the Millennium.<br /><br />Van Impe along with Roger F. Campbell explain from the beginning as the world sets the stage for these end-time events to happen. It starts with Matt. 24: 6,7 of the two World Wars and other wars that have followed after [Rom. 8: 22,23; Joel 3: 9.10]. What also follows are the famines, pestilences, earthquakes, sliding morals, increased knowledge (technology) [Daniel 12:4], signs in the Heavens, and the World Stage (Russia about to move in the Middle East, European Common Market, China as a sleeping giant ready to awaken). The Book of Daniel is very crucial as it's outline of the future is very accurate. Van Impe and Campbell explains Daniel's interpetations and visions to moderen day events.<br />&lt;P... This is a fascinating study in Biblical prophecy and the promise of a new world and eternal peace. It's an excellent source in understanding the outline of the coming end time.	2003-03-16
US	50623976	R305JR2J13Z3G2	0553581945	821018124	The Pill Book Guide to Natural Medicines: Vitamins, Minerals, Nutritional Supplements, Herbs, and Other Natural Products	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Best Natural Reference on the Market	The popular Pill Book Guide supplemental sibling is compiled by one of America's leading authorities on natural medicine, Dr. Michael Murray. The 1074 page book is an up-to-date guide on the effectiveness and safety of herbs, vitamins and other natural products. The book is easily laid out in clear language with information of what each product is for, how it works, with safety and effectiveness ratings, side effects, drug and food interactions, dosages, cautions and warnings.<br /><br />The purpose of this book is to help the reader who use nautral products make wise choices on natural supplements and to save one's health. It also includes Dr. Murray's recommendations for the prevention and treatment of common conditions from acne and congestive heart failure to diabetes and stress. The book answers some questions, on the subject what is all hype and what is science? What do we really know about natural remedies?<br /><br />It answers questions like, can symptoms of menopause be relieved without hormone replacement therapy? Black Cohosh (Remifemin) performed better than hormones and had an A (excellent) rating for safety. What is a safer way of halting macular degeneration over Lasik sugery and save ones' night vision? Bilberry has proven in historical cases to stop the formation of cataracts and improves night vision. During World War II the British Royal Air Force gave it to their pilots who had to fly night missions! To get relief from insomnia without dangerous prescription drugs take your pick from Valerian (rated A for effectiveness), Melatonin (rated B+) or 5-HTP (rated B+). One concern, there were some herbs that were omitted from the book I'd like to have seen listed, e.g. Raspberry Leaves. But if you would consider research and natural remedies change on the market from time-to-time. I'm sure in the future that more will be added. Other than that I definitely believe this to be the best natural reference book out on the market at this time.	2003-03-12
US	50623976	R23SS7FNJ9WXY	0802851525	878506725	When Daddy Prays	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A Wonderful Book to Teach Kids to Pray	When Daddy Prays is a collection of poems and verses to help a child to learn about prayer. The book tells about a child learns just that from his father. The same as we learn from our Heavenly Father. The Father's prayers help carry the family throughout each day. No matter what the situations or circumstances prayer brings them closer.<br /><br />I recommend this to any parent, Christian or non-Christian as a teaching tool for their children. Showing them the value and importance of prayer and bringing families closer together in the bonds of love and faith in the Lord Jesus. The illustrations are beautiful, too.	2003-03-09
US	50623976	RBLT4JT7GAHUZ	0736908234	617007668	Unholy War: America, Israel and Radical Islam	Books	5	15	23	N	N	What You Don't Read or Hear In the Headlines or TV News!	Dr. Randall Price's 'Unholy War' focuses on America, Israel and Radical Islam. He reveals the truth behind the headlines. What they don't tell you in the news is told in depth detail here. Dr. Price has a Ph.D. in Middle Eastern studies and has lived in Jerusalem. He is author of 'Secret of the Dead Sea Scrolls', 'The Coming Last Days Temple', 'Jerusalem in Prophecy' and 'The Stones Cry Out.' Price provides answers to all questions asked about the terrorists and their goals, the fighting in the Middle East, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and how America fits into the picture.<br /><br />The conflict had been a distant problem that only shows up in newspaper headlines. But with the devastating events that happened on the morning of September 11, 2001 changed the world forever. The conflict has now spread to America and the rest of the world. What are the real answers to many misunderstandings and the conflict in the Middle East, terrorism and the Islamic religion. The 5th century Greek historian Thucydides, \\"most people will not take the pains to get at the truth of things, and are much more inclined to accept the first story they hear.\\" At first we have to understand the nature of this war, known to Muslims as jihad (holy war). It also directs to the Israel Factor-key to the Present Conflict, the Islamic Ignorance and the Christian Connection.  What happened on September 11 was a \\"wake up call from Hell.\\" In 1860, the French scientist Pierre Berchelt made a startling apocalyptic prediction: \\"Within a hundred years of physical and chemical science, man will know what the atom is. It is my belief that when science reaches this stage, God will come down with His big ring of keys and will say to humanity: 'Gentlemen, it's closing time.'\\" Today it has happened. And what is going to happen we have a chance to getting the way home before closing time.<br /><br />The issues stems into war with America and Israel are those terrorists of Isalmic beliefs. It extends the explanations that the Islamic terrorists religion accepts no rivals and America and Israel existence is the cause for fear they may destroy Islam. Israel and Jerusalem for years have wanted peace and security proved impossible by the Palestinian uprising and violence along the West Bank. The reason for the Intifada is put an end to the violence. Why does this all matter and the conflict itself? How does the ancient biblical prophecy affect today's politics and the future of the world? What is the role of Islam in the conflict and what makes Muslims militant? What about the trouble at the Temple Mount, the truth behind it's destruction and what's happening at this time? Will there be another war or will there be peace? These are just some of the questions that are answered. Reflecting on the author's statement: \\"Why can't they all just get along?\\" Is a question within itself.<br /><br />Similarities and differences of Muslim, Jewish and Christian Eschatology charts are laid out identifying each one. Also includes is a chronology of the Middle East Conflict beginning 1976 B.C., the time of Abraham's Coventant to the events of 2001. A glossary to help in the study of Middle East issues. Plus recommended reading from many important sources to extend your study, and notes from each chapter to support the answers to why all this is happening. In a new world crisis, nothing is new to God. We're faced with an unholy war and a future we will discover that our faith in God will remove the fear of man. According to Pslam 46: 1-2, 7 [KJV]: 'God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. Therefore we will not fear though the earth be removed....' This is the hope of the future.explanations that the Islamic terrorists religion accepts no rivals and America and Israel existence is the cause for fear they may destroy Islam. Israel and Jerusalem for years have wanted peace and security proved impossible by the Palestinian uprising and violence along the West Bank. The reason for the Intifada is put an end to the violence. Why does this all matter and the conflict itself? How does the ancient biblical prophecy affect today's politics and the future of the world? What is the role of Islam in the conflict and what makes Muslims militant? What about the trouble at the Temple Mount, the truth behind it's destruction and what's happening at this time? Will there be another war or will there be peace? These are just some of the questions that are answered. Reflecting on the author's statement: \\"Why can't they all just get along?\\" Is a question within itself.<BR><br /><BR>Similarities and differences of Muslim, Jewish and Christian Eschatology charts are laid out identifying each one. Also includes is a chronology of the Middle East Conflict beginning 1976 B.C., the time of Abraham's Coventant to the events of 2001. A glossary to help in the study of Middle East issues. Plus recommended reading from many important sources to extend your study, and notes from each chapter to support the answers to why all this is happening. In a new world crisis, nothing is new to God. We're faced with an unholy war and a future we will discover that our faith in God will remove the fear of man. According to Pslam 46: 1-2, 7 [KJV]: 'God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. Therefore we will not fear though the earth be removed....' This is the hope of the future.	2003-02-18
US	50623976	R2YB9ALCUALX6R	0736908234	617007668	Unholy War: America, Israel and Radical Islam	Books	5	11	20	N	N	What You Don't Read or Hear In the Headlines & TV News!	Dr. Randall Price's 'Unholy War' focuses on America, Israel and Radical Islam. He reveals the truth behind the headlines. What they don't tell you in the news is told in depth detail here. Dr. Price has a Ph.D. in Middle Eastern studies and has lived in Jerusalem. He is author of 'Secret of the Dead Sea Scrolls', 'The Coming Last Days Temple', 'Jerusalem in Prophecy' and 'The Stones Cry Out.' Price provides answers to all questions asked about the terrorists and their goals, the fighting in the Middle East, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and how America fits into the picture.<BR><br /><BR>The conflict had been a distant problem that only shows up in newspaper headlines. But with the devastating events that happened on the morning of September 11, 2001 changed the world forever. The conflict has now spread to America and the rest of the world. What are the real answers to many misunderstandings and the conflict in the Middle East, terrorism and the Islamic religion. The author quotes the 5th century Greek historian Thucydides, \\"most people will not take the pains to get at the truth of things, and are much more inclined to accept the first story they hear.\\" At first we have to understand the nature of this war, known to Muslims as jihad (holy war). It also directs to the Israel Factor-key to the Present Conflict, the Islamic Ignorance and the Christian Connection.  What happened on September 11 was a \\"wake up call from Hell.\\" Even in 1860, the French scientist Pierre Berchelt made a startling apocalyptic prediction: \\"Within a hundred years of physical and chemical science, man will know what the atom is. It is my belief that when science reaches this stge, God will come down with His big ring of keys and will say to humanity: 'Gentlemen, it's closing time.'\\" Today it has happened. And what is going to happen we have a chance to getting the way home before closing time.<BR><br /><BR>The ones at war with America and Israel are those terrorists of Isalmic beliefs. Itextends the explanations of hatred that the Islamic terrorists religion accepts no rivals and America and Israel existence is the cause for fear they may destroy Islam. The issues that stem into Israel and Jerusalem for years have wanted peace and security proved impossible by the Palestinian uprising and violence along the West Bank. The reason for the Intifada is put an end to the violence. Why does this all matter and the conflict itself? How does the ancient biblical prophecy affect today's politics and the future of the world? What is the role of Islam in the conflict and what makes Muslims militant? What about the trouble at the Temple Mount, the truth behind it's destruction and what's happening at this time? Will there be another war or will there be peace? These are just some of the questions that are answered. Reflecting on the author's statement: \\"Why can't they all just get along?\\" Is a question within itself.<BR><br /><BR>To understand similarities and differences of Muslim, Jewish and Christian Eschatology charts are laid out identifying each one. Also includes is a chronology of the Middle East Conflict beginning 1976 B.C., the time of Abraham's Coventant to the events of 2001. A glossary to help in the study of Middle East issues. Plus recommended reading from many important sources to extend your study, and notes from each chapter to support the answers to why all this is happening. In a new world crisis, nothing is new God. What we all face is an unholy war and a future we will discover that our faith in God will remove the fear of man. According to Pslam 46: 1-2, 7 [KJV]: 'God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. Therefore we will not fear though the earth be removed....' This is the hope of the future.	2003-02-13
US	50623976	R1JOEE0W726ZS6	0847823857	762271390	The Irish File: Images from a Land of Grace	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Absolutely Beautiful!	The Irish File is the strikingly beautiful photographic works of Jon Michael Riley. Riley lives in North Carolina has done award winning works for numerous magazines and other publications. On his journey to the Emerald Isle, Riley incorporate in his photos a conjoining of dramatic elements.<br /><br />The photographs are so absolutely beautiful it gives the viewer a sense of a Victorian era painting. The artist gives you the feeling of haunting sounds of music and gentle breezes. The sounds so lovely and celestial like an ethereal song-as he describes his visit in Co. Kerry at the gate entrance of St. Senan's Holy Well. The place inspires the spirit of the breezes tumbling about the metal pipes of the gate [on the front cover].  It's looking at the land with a sense of grace and prefection. Not seeing it as a picture postcard snapshot. Like a scene out of a cinema graphic still with soft overtones. He gives his images a vintage look yet bringing out the realness of their simplicity.<br /><br />Nuala O'Faolain's author of 'Are You Somebody: The Accidental Memoir of a Dublin Woman', poetic words in the introduction expresses the photogrpher's broader ego to the spirit of the place. This would make a beautiful coffee table book for lovers of breathtaking photography and those who want to reminisce their travels to Ireland.	2003-02-12
US	50623976	R2Z797QFBNRKJS	0380819589	616949727	The Day John Died	Books	4	6	11	N	N	The Tragic End of an American Era and an American Family	Christopher Andersen, author of the #1 New York Times bestseller \\"The Day Diana Died\\" tells the story of American's son, John F. Kennedy, Jr. It's the bittersweet tale of the American Icon and sadly the unfulfilled fate of his tragic death.<br /><br />If anyone would hear the name of John Kennedy, Jr. knew he was destined for greatness. He once quoted of himself saying: \\"People keep telling me I can be a great man. I'd rather be a good one.\\" On the day John died that July 16, 1999 it seemed known only to God of his father's assassination and the death of Princess Diana was the most distinct moment to affect our lives. The world would never be the same. On the day President John Kennedy died, I was a little girl of 5 years. On the morning of Nov. 22, 1963, I walked into the living room. My mom sat on the couch motionless in front of the TV in tears. I asked her what was the matter. She said, \\"They assassinated President Kennedy.\\" From that day, thirty some years later since little John, Jr. saluted his father's casket in that famous snapshot to the present time in 1999. It is something that we all live with for the rest of our lives. Where were you on July 16, 1999? When a nation's grief would be buried in the ocean along with John, Jr., his wife, Carolyn Bessette and her sister Lauren where they died and where they are at rest.<br /><br />Andersen writes in detailed form the beginnings of the Kennedy legacy and the legend that John, Jr. would live with. It was a time not far in the past that two lives paralleled between Britain's Princess Di and America's John Kennedy, Jr.. Both of their persona of power and elegance inspired the dreams of their generation. Whatever these two did in their lives whether it was weaknesses and failures they were more loved by the public. The public follows John's life as he failed his bar exam twice, his romances with Christina Haag, Madonna and long time love Daryl Hannah, dodging the paparazzi, the famous fight in the park with his future wife, his struggle to find his own career path in the shadow of his legendary parents and the unveiling of his magazine, GEORGE.<br /><br />In the coming few years up to the time of his fated future. John enjoyed time flying. It was the only chance he could get away from the demands of his busy life and the paparazzi. It was such a shame that on the day of his tragic end. It had to go so quickly. As one would put it 'Gone Too Soon.' The lives John, Jr. touched while he was here with his remarkable legacy of a family that endured both triumph and heartbreaking tragedy. His sister Caroline stands alone. The only sole survivor of America's American family. Everyone took solace along with her in her sorrow. In this life that John Kennedy, Jr. lived he never follow in the footsteps of his father's career. Never did he write a book, do any great heroics or discover anything. Just because simply he existed. Everyone knew him. He belonged to all of us. From that beginning John Kennedy, Jr. was America's son. You'll have to read the book to know what I mean.<br /><br />NOTE: The book includes photographs that chronographs his life from his youth to his death with sources, chapter notes and selected bibliography.is future wife, his struggle to find his own career path in the shadow of his legendary parents and the unveiling of his magazine, GEORGE.<BR><br /><BR>In the coming few years up to the time of his fated future. John enjoyed time flying. It was the only chance he could get away from the demands of his busy life and the paparazzi. It was such a shame that on the day of his tragic end. It had to go so quickly. As one would put it 'Gone Too Soon.' The lives John, Jr. touched while he was here with his remarkable legacy of a family that endured both triumph and heartbreaking tragedy. His sister Caroline stands alone. The only sole survivor of America's American family. Everyone took solace along with her in her sorrow. In this life that John Kennedy, Jr. lived he never follow in the footsteps of his father's career. Never did he write a book, do any great heroics or discover anything. Just because simply he existed. Everyone knew him. He belonged to all of us. From that beginning John Kennedy, Jr. was America's son. You'll have to read the book to know what I mean.<BR><br /><BR>NOTE: The book includes photographs that chronographs his life from his youth to his death with sources, chapter notes and selected bibliography.	2003-02-07
US	50623976	RFNNMOA9JV206	0385720092	515573842	More Bread or I'll Appear	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Family that Sticks Together?	Emer Martin's novel about the ups-and-downs of a dysfunctional Irish family is a new approach from her earlier work &quot;Breakfast at Babylon.&quot; Martin examines human issues that brings about the saying: &quot;a family that sticks together [doesn't always stay together].&quot; The story focuses on a mother, Molly and her 5 children, Patrick, Aisling. Keelin, Siobhan and Orla.<br /><br />Molly's husband becomes mentally ill and is institutionalized. Molly and the children move from west Ireland to Dublin. The eldest daughter Aisling attends college there. Molly follows her. Then one summer Aisling just disappears. It takes Molly 15 years later to presuade her youngest and reliable. Keelin and put her life on hold to search for Aisling. So Keelin sets off to travel the world with the other siblings. Keelin learns that each sibling is cursed with their father's affliction 'the doubting disease.' In some way and another each is ultimately compelled to perform irrational acts. In pursuit of her wild, elusive sister. Whose personality defies any description. Keelin takes on a very chic and decadent Japan, a talk show diverse United States and an incongruous Central America. There are many questionable adventures.. what follows is an uncertain reunion and a surprising betrayal. Keelin questions the family attachments that have driven her to the point of separation.<br /><br />Martin's work casts a unique ego on vital issues of gender, race and class. Though it's primarily a story about family. It sheds some light on what some family's face within their circle. The domination of genetic and emotional bonds, the struggle for individuality and the difficulty of love. If you like reading about the quirkness and social norms in family relationships I suggest this.	2003-02-07
US	50623976	R3A0VU4XXL9M3H	1892016737	332494119	Prophecy at Ground Zero: From Today's Middle-East Madness to the Second Coming of Christ	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Countdown to the End-Time	Prophecy at Ground Zero by William T. James, general editor along with top eschatological authorities examine and interpet in detail the present day events that are revealed in the ancient biblical scriptures. Some of these questions that still arise from the decimation of September 11, 2001. The carnage known as Ground Zero gave us a sense that there is ongoing struggle against evil in a troubled future for planet Earth linked to a prophetic destiny. These were revealed by Jesus in His Olivet Discourse written in Matthew 24 & 25, Mark 13, and Luke 21 and by the prophets Daniel, Ezekiel and Revelations.<br /><br />The book has key terms and scriptures throughout that accompany each chapter discussing the future of terrorism and it's involvement in the undertaking of the end-time scenerio. To support these discussions a number of recent national and international news articles are listed along with maps and diagrams to explain where we are now and where humankind will be in the end-time events. As we look around to what's happening everyday in technological advancements and political events are becoming climatic. Super nations are being set up for the most earthshaking campaign in all of history combined.<br /><br />The book features highlights and important dates that have also lead up to what will be Armageddon. In every major prophecy mentioned Israel is at it's center. These prophecies contain warnings of a great caliber and multitude of the fate of humankind. The more devastating events will be according to the scriptures after the Rapture of the Church from the Earth. From here the book identifies the nations that will be invloved in the invasion of Israel.<br /><br />Just as Israel faces perilous times so is America mentioned in the prophecy of the Holy Scriptures. In the fierce world of radical, deadly religions and the progressing of a one-world government lead by the Anti-Christ. We can't deny what is coming that the Bible is certainly real and that the outcome of the events mentioned in this book is real. Many truths are revealed about the global condition and the consequences it will face on the path it takes. The message is clear that evil times are here, but there is hope in Jesus Christ. Faith in Jesus Christ overcomes all fear. The good news is that there will be a new earth without end [Isaiah 45:17; Ephesians 3:21]. I recommend this highly as a study in depth for anyone who is looking for a complete, concise book about end-time prophecy.he outcome of the events mentioned in this book is real. Many truths are revealed about the global condition and the consequences it will face on the path it takes. The message is clear that evil times are here, but there is hope in Jesus Christ. Faith in Jesus Christ overcomes all fear. The good news is that there will be a new earth without end [Isaiah 45:17; Ephesians 3:21]. I recommend this highly as a study in depth for anyone who is looking for a complete, concise book about end-time prophecy.	2003-01-18
US	50623976	R1BLZSJLGRSXOY	0709029535	845128496	Real Irish Cookery (Hale Pocket Guides)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Little Cookbook with Authenic food of the Irish life	Mary Caherty's Real Irish Cookery is a small souvenir of traditional Irish recipes that are centuries old. One brings to mind is the Irish stew, boiled bacon and cabbage and soda bread. Fact is, years of hardship caused the Irish cook to be more innovative. Some traditional dishes have been lost until recently. Sorrel and Garlic for example grows wild in the west of Ireland have found their way back into the Irish kitchen. And what Irishman is handy in the kitchen with a pint of Irish stout can spice up any Iocal dish. As in the words of Flann O'Brien:<br /><br />When food is scarce<br /><br />And your larder's bare<br /><br />And no rashers grease your pan,<br /><br />When hunger grows<br /><br />As your meals grow rare,<br /><br />A pint of plain is your only man<br /><br />The book includes notes on ingredients with measures and conversions. Over 100 recipes are categorized for easy use. Such classic recipes included are Nettle Soup, Baked Salmon, Buttered Kippers, Herrings in Oatflakes, Tyrone roast goose and Coddle. Traditonal Irish fry items, Black Pudding, Crubeens, Boxty and Pub favorite Steamed Oysters served with Brown Bread and butter and Guinness. Vegetable dishes include champ, colcannon, apple mash. There's a diverse range of Breads and Desserts including soda bread, scones, farls, brack, apple fritters and castleconnell cake. What cookbook wouldn't be complete with blackberry cordial and an Irish coffee recipe? Other numerous and unusual fare are the carrageen and dulse seaweed dishes, Yellowman and Irish-style rice pudding. The book complemented with a section of old folk remedies from dandelion coffee to help flush the kidneys and rose hips syrup as a general tonic.<br /><br />This is a great additon to any Irish or Celtic cookbook collection. It 's a small souvenir I picked up on my trip to the Kylemore Abbey Gift Shop in the Connemara, Co. Galway. It was a grand find for sure!	2002-12-31
US	50623976	R1494LV1G17CWQ	0802138322	998391535	The Wig My Father Wore	Books	4	6	9	N	N	A Strange, But Hilarious Irish Story	I found this book very surreal and often times strange. It starts out with Stephen the angel showing up on Grace's doorstep. At times I'd get lost going back and forth from Grace's home life and her trying to accustom to Stephen's presence. Throwing herself into her job in TV broadcasting at a weekly program called the LoveQuiz. Her father is going senile with Alzheimer's. Looking at Grace, she's pretty much has a good solid life.<br /><br />Through most of her cynical views. She realizes she must take hold of her life and all of it's absurd turns.  With Stephen's appearance he explains to Grace he (a former bridge builder who committed suicide) came back to earth to guide lost souls. Soon they both establish a household together. Visits to her parents house and the memories and pictures that are hidden from view. Reminds Grace that her father who she always knew wore a wig. From the time of her parents meeting and the later stuff. All the family reminscences. The time they first got an Aerial. The first time they got a TV. The first night viewing in 1969 with a memorable list of Irish TV programs. Do these bring back memories? Such as, Steady As She Go-Goes (on the night they landed on the moon), Apollo 11, The Riordians on Wednesday night.<br /><br />The ending is subtle and fluid like the milk she trails on the road to her house. Describes it like making love or dying. Nothing really dies. To a woman it make's sense. Just as the sky is blue. Just imagine that unpredictable revelation like falling in love. Through the complex picture of family, religion, sex, love and redemption is a glowing wit and a vibrant flavor like the blue pattern of a TV screen. This book has everything from parents and love to religion and the weird oddities of life. The author probes every angle with precision. And with a penchant for a zoom lens to focus on the fluid and clever situations. I think it was quite an entertaining and a fun read.	2002-02-27
US	50623976	REYRO5YY1S1GN	0618071687	825848564	Mrs. Hollingsworth's Men	Books	2	0	4	N	N	Wouldn't Walter Mitty Be Proud?	I wanted to check out the library copy before buying. I found this book a little surreal. It's a little different and with a bit of a twist. The lonesome lady makes out a creative, outrageous grocery list. Letting her imagination run wild it takes on the mind of Walter Mitty. The man of her idol fantasies are those of Confederate General Nathan B. Forrest. And what is this thing for burning mules? But let a woman think what she wants to think. To escape the reality of utter boredom and loneliness. Sure got me though I'm the female gender myself.<br /><br />The author seems to had fun writing this cute little daydreamer's delight. It had it's funny moments. A pretty artful provocative fantasy with a smothering of Civil War history thrown in. I think if I had a magical want list, Clark Gable and a flying RV with a smoking camel. But I think I could find a better alternative remedy. In other words, I'd find it more entertaining to read Walter Mitty or go to the grocery store to meet guys!  It could be missing something, but then again use your imagination!	2002-02-27
US	50623976	R2OOXGXLA9YCAX	0849912970	734020909	Traveling Light: Releasing the Burdens You Were Never Intended to Bear	Books	5	32	33	N	N	Unloading Unwanted Baggage from the Road of Life	I'm in love with Max Lucado's works. And, one should be! The way Lucado writes in every chapter, in every book somewhere everyone has experienced some trial in their life. Lucado is surely blessed by the spirit of God to write so many beautiful, inspirational books. Lucado covers about every situation you can imagine he's amazing. The Lord Jesus is AMAZING!<br /><br />In this title, 'Traveling Lightly', Lucado looks at and uses as a guide the Twenty-Third Psalm. . .<br /><br />The Lord is my shepherd;<br /><br />I shall not want . . .<br /><br />Each chapter takes each verse of the Psalm, step by step. Until you unload that heavy burden of luggage. The one you've been carrying around needlessly most all of your life. Because you are NOT ALONE!<br /><br />No matter where we are in our life. Or, what we're doing in our lives. Even through the trials and turmoil the Lord is with us. That's how much He loves us.<br />Though we may experience discontent, weariness, worry, hopelessness, guilt, arrogance, trying to be perfect, fear, loneliness, shame, disappointment, envy, doubt, grief and even facing death and loss. Even the homesickness for Heaven. He is NOT far away. The Lord Jesus follows us and NEVER leaves us, nor forsakes us. We were NEVER intended to bear such burdens. Jesus did it for each and everyone of us. Jesus wrote the book on salvation. He stands at the door of our hearts. Waiting. To give you that free gift of His perfect Grace.<br /><br />In our journey of life we're intended to enjoy it without carrying all the stuff around. Most of us step on the baggage carousel and load up. This book guides us step by step from each verse of the Twenty-Third Psalm. After we're all done. We've dropped everything. Free to enjoy life like we should. With the help of the Savior who did it all. So that we could have the peace and the freedom to live happy lives. Perfect love casts out fear [I John 4:18].<br /><br />I highly recommend this wonderful, helpful book. For supplemental reading also try 'The Spellbinder's Gift' by Og Mandino, 'God in the Dark' by Os Guinness, and 'A Shepherd Looks at Psalm 23' by Phillip Keller. If you're looking to slow down from the choatic life see what the power of this book can teach you.<BR><br /><BR>I highly recommend this wonderful, helpful book. For supplemental reading also try 'The Spellbinder's Gift' by Og Mandino, 'God in the Dark' by Os Guinness, and 'A Shepherd Looks at Psalm 23' by Phillip Keller. If you're looking to slow down from the choatic life see what the power of this book can teach you.	2002-01-22
US	50623976	RN9JDJSKTV37A	0802483348	15509268	Don't Doubt in the Dark	Books	5	4	4	N	N	50 Ways to Leave Your Doubt in the Dark	I was seeking an answer in overcoming my constant doubt. I was on a visit to New York City when I walked into an East Side Christian bookstore. I asked for the best source on how to deal with doubt and fear. I was given this one of two books. I must say I wasn't disappointed. 'Don't Doubt in the Dark' is a great book for anyone who is suffering from doubting, loss, loneliness, sickness or pain.<br /><br />There is a collection of stories with hope and faith about people like you and me. Those who have suffered the most painful and dark times in their lives. C. S. Lewis once said, &quot;God whispers to us in our pleasure, speaks to us in our conscience, but shouts to us in our pain&quot; (The Problem of Pain).<br /><br />The greatest people who ever lived, doubted. The stories of each one gives us the courage to share that feeling of doubt. They teach us to cope with the pains of life. With some hope glimmering in the light God reveals to each one of us. Each story illustrates circumstances and painful situations that many have faced. In that that time of desperation, a question arises to the point. . . Does God care? [1 Peter 5:7, Matthew 6:25-26]. It may answer a few questions, &quot;Why do bad things happen to good people?&quot; Life is a like a tapestry. The top side there is a beautiful picture and the message clear. But, the bottom side all tangled and confusing threads. In this life 'we see through a glass, darkly' [1 Corinthians 13:12]. Life is full of mystery.<br /><br />Believing is tough when dreams fall apart. Jesus faced it. He warned, &quot;You will have tribulation, but be of good cheer, I have overcome the world&quot; [John 16:33]. In the Garden of Gethsemane, He suffered the worst anguish any of us would ever experience [Matthew 26:39]. Jesus questioned, &quot;Is there any other way than this?&quot; And yet He suffered. Even while dying on the cross He called out, &quot;Why have You forsaken me?&quot; [Matthew 27:46]. Jesus' suffering tells us that God feels about pain. God does care about human suffering.<br /><br />Sweeting tells us that God wants us to enjoy life. When the time is the darkest it won't stay that way.  God is working in you. God still has good plans for you. Just trust Him. Laughter is the best medicine even in the bad times. That's why comedians live so long. &quot;A merry heart does good, like medicine, but a broken spirit dries the bones&quot; [Proverbs 17:22]. Sweeting offers this poem:<br /><br />&lt;I&gt;God holds the key to all the unknown,&lt;/I&gt;<br /><br />&lt;I&gt;And I am glad.&lt;/I&gt;<br /><br />&lt;I&gt;If other hands should hold the key,&lt;/I&gt;<br /><br />&lt;I&gt;I might be sad.&lt;/I&gt;<br /><br />For further reading, I suggest 'Too Soon To Quit' by George Sweeting. He tells you no matter the circumstances of your life, you can prosper and grow in the power and strength of Jesus. The ultimate answer to &lt;I&gt;Don't&lt;/I&gt; Quit! Most of his books are guaranteed to light your path and renew your faith. So, don't give up and look up! This little book of wisdom will show you how.that God feels about pain. God does care about human suffering.<BR><br /><BR>Sweeting tells us that God wants us to enjoy life. When the time is the darkest it won't stay that way.  God is working in you. God still has good plans for you. Just trust Him. Laughter is the best medicine even in the bad times. That's why comedians live so long. &quot;A merry heart does good, like medicine, but a broken spirit dries the bones&quot; [Proverbs 17:22]. Sweeting offers this poem:<BR><BR>&lt;I&gt;God holds the key to all the unknown,&lt;/I&gt;<BR><BR>&lt;I&gt;And I am glad.&lt;/I&gt;<BR><BR>&lt;I&gt;If other hands should hold the key,&lt;/I&gt;<BR><BR>&lt;I&gt;I might be sad.&lt;/I&gt; <BR><BR><br /><BR>For further reading, I suggest 'Too Soon To Quit' by George Sweeting. He tells you no matter the circumstances of your life, you can prosper and grow in the power and strength of Jesus. The ultimate answer to &lt;I&gt;Don't&lt;/I&gt; Quit! Most of his books are guaranteed to light your path and renew your faith. So, don't give up and look up! This little book of wisdom will show you how.	2001-12-20
US	50623976	R1GCAOE0YUOWO6	0425180719	998286460	The Oxford Essential Desk Reference	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Handy Compact Reference Guide	This desk reference is a handy, compact guide packed with all types of information at your fingertips. It has easy-to-use index  tools to help you find what you're looking for. It's made up of facts and figures on a different variety of subjects.<br /> It contains current facts of background and historical information. There are sources at the end of each section for more information. This is great for educational study and for writers that's small enough to  carry wherever you go. It's a unique desktop tool that's part almanac, encyclopedia, reference and facts book all roll up into one.<br /> The book is very up to date.  Features a multitude of topics such as History, Current Events, Arts, Health and Fitness, Science and Technology, Geography and many more. It's also complete with maps, drawings, charts and tables. Who could ask for more in one great reference. I won't use any other reference guide but this handy, comprehensive reference. It's a plus to any working toolbox!	2001-08-08
US	50623976	R36CTBJ5JEEDPH	1576737330	89800612	The Prayer of Jabez:  Breaking Through to the Blessed Life	Books	4	3	5	N	N	As You Like It	This little book was sent to me by a cross the way friend by surprise. My secret wish was to find something meaningful in my everyday life. And, I can give testimony to that whatever your deepest desire in your heart, God is there to answer you in some way.<br />  The book itself doesn't just say from this most obscure, little prayer [KJV I Chronicles 4:10] what we all expect from it. It's what God intend for us to do more and to be more as His children. What Wilkinson gets across to the reader is his own personal testimonies and those of others. He shares with all of us how these words and all the words from the Bible can help obtain and sustain a blessed life.<br />  The same prayer is applied to all our lives who believe in God's word. It attests to God's infinite power and ever present to give abundantly. As we shouldn't forget that the testimonies of His Son Jesus Christ also stems much greater into the abundant, blessed life.... It was Jesus' words who spoke the model prayer, \\"Our Father which art in Heaven\\" [KJV Luke 11:2-4]. He is the true Vine of Life and Bread of Life [KJV John 6:35-40]. So when in doubt, read the King James Version New Testament for supplemental material for lasting inspiration and the teachings of Christ....	2001-08-04
US	50623976	R3FJJ8ELQIQI5S	038070613X	186515960	Taliesin (The Pendragon Cycle, Book 1)	Books	5	29	31	N	N	Fantastic Pendragon Saga!!	The tales are King Arthur are magnificently told and fashioned into 5 books of the Pendragon Cycle: 'Taliesin', 'Merlin', 'Arthur', 'Pendragon', and 'Grail'.<br /> Lawhead does an excellent job in this first book of this series of books. The first one tells the story of Charis, an Atlantean princess who escapes the devastation of her homeland, the once peaceful kingdom Atlantis. In her refuge, she journeys to the ancient lands of Wales and Britain. There she meets her future love, Taliesin, mystical seer and druid prince. It's between these two lovers that two worlds join together in a land full of chaos and the fate of it's future hangs in the balance. From this union the birth and miracles of Merlin, the fabled magician are manifested. This brings alive the legend of Pendragon, Uther and King Arthur.<br /> Lawhead, often called the 'Celtic Tolkien' brings to life in every detail of it's ancient history and the characters. You experience it with vibrant realness, resonance and passion. This would be an excellent addition to any Arthurian literature and anyone studying ancient history and mythology. Each book is a remarkable tapestry of eloquent and descriptive stories of the Arthurian epic, mysticism and the age of chivalry. The old tale is given a new light that entertains and dazzles. If you like ancient Celtic history and fantasy this is an absolute recommendation!	2001-08-01
US	50623976	R3MPTSPMDNIDTL	0141309199	242480756	Slam	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Shakespeare, Hip Hop Fest	Of all the classic and modern poetry I've read doesn't compare to this book of contemporary poetry. It is completely different in it's expression of emotions, thoughts and words. One slam poet sees it if one didn't express themselves in writing, they would express it in songs or poems.<br /> This book of slam poetry, a &quot;traditional&quot; relevant, now scene art with soul is like no other poetry as it is part of you. How you feel. How you express yourself.  By the life you live. How you see it. How you breathe it. That opens you up inside and examines how we all tick. Saying it better in the words of Michelangelo, &quot;I saw the angel in the marble and carved until I set him free.&quot; If I were to recommend a book of poems to make you feel good, I would recommend this book.<br /> Not only is this little book a big inspiration to write and look at life at a whole new prospective. It is a book that will follow you wherever you go. It has great writing tips throughout. A big plus, some tidbits of the modern artistic gurus that shape every part of our everyday life, and help shape your own world. Such names like Tori Amos, Maya Angelou, Emily Dickinson, W. H. Auden (who believed in the notion of poetry as a therapy similar to psychoanalysis), Cibo Matto, Bob Dylan, Allen Ginsberg, Aimee Mann, Frank O'Hara, Jimi Hendrix , Hole, John Lennon, J. D. Salinger, Walt Whitman, Dylan Thomas, Rob Thomas (Matchbox 20) and much more explode from the pages as you pick up the fragments and run with it. It's that good!	2001-05-20
US	50623976	R3GG8Q8P7X49PT	1581950071	944491031	Riddle of Stars	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Lovely Irish Story of Haunting Memories	Matthew Quigley longs for a life he once had in Ireland. Unsettled with his job and love life that is an in and out affair. His escape in the car he dubs the &quot;Green Monster&quot; away from his harried life. His journey for his search begins. He longs for his Inish home and the memories of his grandfather. At the same time struggles with his new home in Boston.<br />  It is a beautiful fiction of longing for a life of peace and the heart that remembers and longs for between the home of his childhood and his second far away home. These things as they were and the way they are reflected in the lives of those of Matthew comes to terms with. One, his mother, who he reconciles with and his girlfriend who he helps in her tragedy of a dying father.<br /> The story draws you to Matthew, following him on his journeys through the New England crossways and to the misty Enchanted Green Isle. You become part of his struggle and yearning to piece together his life. Coming to term with his beloved memories and the lessons of family endures. Well worth to take the plunge and follow the main character on a journey for love and living. An absolute recommendation!	2001-03-16
US	50623976	R1SNGD7SNXZ35O	1566490464	567505775	History of the World in Nine Guitars	Books	4	1	2	N	N	World History That Rocks!	At the start of a new millenium a concert of all concerts in history is about to take place. The scene is at an old archeological dig site and the finding of Lucy the mother of history and music, which is excavated well listening to &quot;Lucy In The Sky With Diamonds&quot;. Enter Eric Clapton to this historical event and experiences a journey in music's past. This archeological find transports Clapton into dreams of his proverbial ancestors from a Persian in ancient Eygpt, a Peruvian emperor, a Milan violinist to the black gospel &amp; blues singers along the Mississippi of the Old South and the mastery of Jimi Hendrix. This story is very creative and inventive in the way it uses guitars, music and world history. It's a nice telling of how music and the birth of the guitar expanded through the ages of time. Each timeline interpets the rise of the musical instrument, that has become part of our pop culture and they way we listen to music, and how it's influenced our lives.	2001-03-15
US	50623976	R36HFFLAFE9WRC	0436395002	869758607	James Joyce's Dublin	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Joyce's Dublin Through the Eye of a Fellow Dubliner	Edward Quinn author and photographer captures the everyday life of the people in the same manner as James Joyce himself. Quinn uses a reporter style collecting in his images what Joyce called 'epiphanies'. Quinn roamed day until dusk not only caught notings of words and phrases, he caught the incidents of the way the Irish live and the atomsphere of the places as Joyce saw it. Selected writings from Joyce's works, 'Dubliners',  'Ulysses' 'A Portrait of the Artist As a Young Man' 'Finnegan's Wake' and the autobiography 'Stephen Hero' creates a spiritual manifestation of Quinn's photographs. The book also commerates the annual Bloomsday to celebrate Joyce's memory  and his contribution to his Ireland he wrote about.	2001-02-20
US	50623976	R2SQ6T99H9MBU1	0862811716	396194147	Short History of Ireland (Appletree Pocket Guides)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Irish History compacted into one little book	This gives an account of a readable outline on Ireland's history beginning from the first inhabitants and pre-christian era to past and today's Ireland's troubles and economy, political, social and religious norms. Contains concise biographies of important patriot figures and Irish writers as well as a chronologic timeline of important dates in Ireland's history.	2001-02-09
US	50623976	R126W6WHL1ODR	0375725857	246357289	A Moon for the Misbegotten	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Beautiful Love Story That Wraps Around Your Heart	I saw the play on Broadway back in May 2000. If Eugene O'Neill's ghost were walking the aisles of the theater that night he would be proud of the performance that night. The play is timeless as it is cherished as the best love story created. The actors were superb in their portrayal of O'Neill's character. Gabriel Byrne was excellent in his role as James Tyrone the sometimes actor, full time drunken landlord of Phil Hogan (played by Roy Dotrice) and  Josie Hogan (played by Cherry Jones). Cherry Jones' character Josie brought out a beautiful heart of a hulking frame of a woman with a reputation of being ornery like her father, who longs for the man she loves, James Tyrone. Every moment is the ebb tide of emotion stirring in the hearts of the two misbegotten crossed lovers. Even to the very end, of the misfortunate disappointment it will stop your heart and make you take a deeper breath again.	2001-01-29
