US	50623404	R1QGJ0AC4FQNP7	068486214X	889208740	The Worldly Philosophers: The Lives, Times And Ideas Of The Great Economic Thinkers, Seventh Edition	Books	3	39	51	N	N	Mixed Bag	I have read books on the history of economics and economic thought before, and this one is a mixed bag. The chapters on Smith, Ricardo and Malthus are well written and informative. Heilbroner brings Smith's basic ideas to life in well formulated prose and clear exposition. He also lays to rest the myth that Smith is simply an apologist for the capitalist class. <br />However, with few exceptions, one gets the impression after reading this book that the history of economic thought is nothing but the apologetic bourgeoisie professoriat versus the ignored socialist saviors. His chapter on Marx leaves much to be desired; I expected more depth and a less equivocal discussion. Marx's system is more than economic and does not just have problems with an inadequate theory of value. Considering the inclusion of a chapter on Thorstein Veblen, whose works are clearly more sociological than economic, it is odd to omit a more thorough discussion of Marx. <br />I found the discussion of Mill to be simply misleading. If my reading of Mill is correct, then he did not come to have socialist leanings until late in his life. Indeed, Mill is usually cited as a defender of laissez-faire. Mill was not consistently supportive of any specific economic system. He opposed a progressive income tax yet favored a limit on inheritance. He favored nationalization of the railways yet also the existence of private joint-stock corporations. One cannot claim Mill as a socialist without qualification, and Heilbroner is guilty of serious misrepresentation of Mill's actual beliefs. <br />There are other problems, for example, his discussion of the Great Depression. To claim that economists of the day had no idea what to do is simply false. The economists who vehemently protested government interventions such as the Smoot-Hawley Tariff certainly did something. Indeed, there were more than 1,000 of them from 179 institutions who urged Hoover not to enact the Tariff; the Tariff is thought to be an importantfactor in causing the Depression. <br />The worst omission, and by far the least forgivable, is that of marginalized schools of economic thought. One would think a man with socialist tendencies would want to bring the less heard voices of economics to the light. They certainly merit at least a mention in the book's reading list, yet they get none. For example, no mention is made of the contributions of the Austrian school. <br />I realize this is a general book for the non-specialized reader. That does not excuse Heilbroner from painting a one-sided portrait of economics. As a brief discussion of some important historical figures this book only moderately satisfies. As an introduction to economic history or thought it is generally poor. &quot;A History of Economic Thought&quot; by Lionel Robbins would be a much better choice.	2002-05-09
US	50623404	RZNAKAZWSDIL8	1573922390	42948477	How to Think Straight: An Introduction to Critical Reasoning	Books	4	21	27	N	N	The book really isn't that difficult	I am surprised at many of the reviews of this book. If the reviewer isn't attacking Flew's political positions, then she's complaining that the book is too difficult. First, Flew's politics are a small part of the book. I feel that he uses well chosen examples to get the reader to engage in critical thinking, especially about positions one is tempted to dismiss out of hand because they don't pass the ideological litmus test. <br />The purpose of this book is to get the reader to develop a habit of critical thinking; the examples Flew uses serve that purpose well. <br />The book is not difficult to read for anyone with a moderately decent education. I am currently a sophomore at the University of Florida, and found little trouble with Flew's writing. A few times it did seem that Flew's point was unclear, but I rarely felt this way and the point in question was usually minor. Also, rereading the relevant passage always cleared it up.<br />His discussion of the relationship between a person's integrity and that person's desire for the truth is well written. His use of historical examples from various thinkers and disciplines helps to bring out the importance of applying critical thinking to all areas of discourse. Flew also discusses very basic but important logical points, both formal and informal. <br />The difficulty people seem to experience with this book may arise from the fact that Flew appears to take for granted that people know what he's talking about. He appears to move from point to point quickly, and often uses prior developed points in later areas of the book. If the reader finds following him difficult, then any basic introduction to informal logic will make this books easier and more enjoyable. <br />I was scared away from Flew's book by reading the reviews on this site claiming it was confusing and difficult. I finally decided to try it and found that it really is not as bad as the people here make it out to be.	2002-05-09
US	50623404	R2LWGL2EEFU8K3	0130621129	186444346	The Joy of Freedom: An Economist's Odyssey	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Great book with a few flaws	The Joy of Freedom by David R. Henderson makes many good points but has a few flaws. First, the book suffers from the peril of appearing like an introduction: lots of breadth, little depth in any issue. However, Henderson draws from a wide range of personal experience and knowledge. One will often end up with a fairly interesting reading list after each chapter, and the book should whet one's appetite for more.  <br />That said, I want to comment on what I think is done well.  Henderson's discussion about his experiences in the Reagan administration is one of the better parts of the book. Henderson notes time and time again the harsh truth about government workers: they really don't care about you. Like everyone else, they care about themselves! This sounds like common sense; I mean, government employees are people too, just like you and me, right? Yet when cases are made for government intervention, &quot;the government&quot; is often posited as this disembodied entity working tirelessly for the &quot;public good.&quot; Not true. And finally we hear it from the horse's mouth.<br />Similarly, Henderson's discussion of the deaths caused by FDA regulation, the immorality of the draft and drug war, the importance of private property, and the environment are all fairly well written and display a deep grasp of the relevant theoretical and empirical data. For example, at one point Henderson appears to borrow a distinction from philosopher Robert Nozick. The distinction is between process and end-state views of justice as applied to income inequality.  I am impressed that Henderson makes this distinction, which is certainly relevant, although often left out, of the income inequality discussion. Also, it has been some time since there was an introduction to any type of free market environmentalism, and Henderson spends much time on this important issue. His discussion of the health care crisis is also well done and shows an attention to the relevant laws and economic data.Last but not least, Henderson's few swipes at FDR, and the law that FDR wanted passed that would have essentially brought back slavery, should be required reading for every naive ignoramus who still feels like regarding that man as anything more than a power hungry megalomaniac.    <br />However, there are some black spots on the book as well.  Notable is Henderson's odd treatment of taxation. If taxation is &quot;clearly theft&quot; (and I think Henderson makes a decent case for that), then one cannot legitimize taxation by saying that defense is necessary, ergo taxation for a military is OK. In Henderson's own words this is tantamount to a total denunciation of the whole notion that &quot;taxation is clearly theft.&quot;  And what exactly is the difference between say, a 15% theft burden and a 3% one?  If we use Henderson's argument with another unjust action, than we can see the problem he gets himself into. Slavery is wrong (like theft, right?). However, it's necessary that everyone be a slave for a few days a month, and besides, it's better than being a slave for 15 days a month, which is really wrong. Henderson's whole argument is that theft is wrong, taxation is a form of theft, taxation is wrong.  Now, whether you buy that or not, clearly Henderson cannot turn around a say &quot;Wait, a little bit of theft is OK!&quot; At this point I became disappointed. Even a cursory discussion of the relevant literature, perhaps even a few footnotes where Henderson could've mentioned classical liberal justifications of defense taxation, would've been better than essentially ignoring the issue entirely.  <br />Finally, at the end of the book in the great discussion on global warming Henderson mentions Pascal's wager.  Henderson claims that Pascal &quot;had no information about God,&quot; but that Pascal thought he might as well believe in him because if God exists and he believes, than he (Pascal- or the would be interlocutor) will be rewarded with heaven. The &quot;wager&quot; runs that if God doesn't exist than you might as well believe anyway; you won't lose anything by believing and you have actually quite a lot to gain if God does exist. However, Henderson totally gets this wrong. Pascal never claims, as Henderson states, that he didn't have enough evidence for believing in God. In fact, Pascal believed in God independently of and before coming up with his famous wager. This is the only area of the book where Henderson clearly has no idea what he's talking about, and it shows.<br />Except for that little misstatement, Henderson has written an interesting, and fascinating, book.	2002-01-03
US	50623404	RWF1MJ37OOEVM	1567511945	280935784	Rogue State: A Guide to the World's Only Superpower	Books	1	56	128	N	N	Earth to Billy...	William Blum has distorted reality in his book, Rogue State. I can only comment on what I know, so I will focus on that. Of course, it is possible that the rest of the book is accurate, but I have my doubts because Blum's overt bias imbues every page.<br />Chapter 17 of RS is entitled, &quot;A Concise History of US Global Interventions, 1945 to the Present.&quot; Pages 142-143 discuss Chile and the CIA involvement in the coup which ousted Marxist Salvador Allende. Blum writes, &quot;Salvador Allende was the worst possible scenario for the Washington power elite...an elected [emphasis deleted] Marxist in power, one who honored the constitution, and became increasingly popular.&quot;<br />I am unsure if Blum is talking about the Allende that actually ran Chile, as opposed to some sort of ideal Allende that exists in the mind of only William Blum. In reality, Allende won the election of 1970 with only 36 percent of the vote, and only 40,000 more votes than the right-wing candidate. Blum claims the CIA failed to sabotage that election. <br />After one-thousand days of Allende's rule, former president of Chile Eduardo Frei Montalva said that Chile had descended into a &quot;carnival of madness&quot; and that &quot;Chile is in the throes of an economic disaster: not a crises, but a veritable catastrophe....&quot; The Chilean Supreme Court, the Bar Association, Medical Society, Chamber of Deputies, and heads of the Christian Democrat Party all warned that Allende was trampling both Chilean law and her constitution. By August 1973 half the work force was on strike, and they were demanding that Allende go. Major industries were paralyzed and the economy was in shambles. <br />Did the CIA have some involvement? Maybe. But the truth of the matter is that Allende did not have a mandate, either electoral or constitutional, to implement his program to &quot;initiate socialism at once.&quot; Imagine your most hated political party gaining control with only 36 percent of the vote,and then eviscerating the constitution and subverting law to implement its policies, which are radically different from what is currently in place. It doesn't take a genius to conclude that opposition is going to occur. Blum's claim that Allende became increasingly popular is simply false; the opposite occurred. <br />My next criticism is of a chapter that is ripe with fallacies: Chapter 26. Here Blum tries to attack free-enterprise (which he mistakenly assumes is crony capitalism, as almost all leftists do), oddly enough by arguing that most American's really don't support it. This is such an awful non-argument that I pass over it in silence: You shouldn't support free-enterprise because most people don't really support it, and you really don't either if you think about it. I believe this refutes itself. If you think this is an unfair caricature of his argument then simply glance at the title of this chapter: &quot;Do Americans Really Believe in Free Enterprise?&quot;<br />Most of the chapter is a poor emotional appeal, so I'll discuss the only substantive part. Blum points out all the &quot;wonderful&quot; things government has done: created an enormous military, landed men on the moon, built great dams, national parks, the interstate, insurance for bank deposits, social security, the EPA and NIH, etc. He goes on, but Blum chooses such a poor litany of government programs that one wonders if he's not being sarcastic.  Indeed, there are detracting arguments for these and every other program he lists. The interstate has led to massive pollution and urban sprawl for instance, and those &quot;great dams&quot; may not be any better for humans or the environment. <br />His entire book is an indictment of what the military is doing, yet he lists it as an example of &quot;getting important things done.&quot; Blum insists on committing Bastiat's fallacy of what is not seen over and over again, and he doesn't even do a good job. Come on, social security as an example of efficient government? Please Mr. Blum, get a life. Bastiat's fallacy is simple to write, but subtle and often difficult to grasp: Government takes money from other people and spends it, often on things people wouldn't spend it on, but not always. Thus almost everything government has done has come at the expense of something else not done, something not seen. Merely quoting government projects (and awful ones at that) does not refute the claims of supporters of the free-market and individual liberty. Blum attacks and brilliantly brings down his own straw man: no one claims the government can't do anything at all, so merely pointing out that it can do things is willfully stupid. <br />If the rest of the book is the same as these two parts, then Mr. Blum has promulgated a bunch of worthless drivel.	2001-08-16
US	50623404	R3ASA7L7GSIWBV	0691006679	606966237	From Subsistence to Exchange and Other Essays	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Excellent introdiction to Bauer and great as a stand-alone	&quot;From Subsistence to Exchange: and other essays&quot; (FSE), is a wonderfully insightful little book that throws light on the  problems of the Third World economies, egalitarianism, the &quot;mathematized&quot; economics profession, and, among other things, offers rigorous arguments against foreign aid and Western guilt (for allegedly causing Third World poverty).<br />I found this book to be both a great introduction to development economics and Peter Bauer, as well as a handy catalog of refutations of popular economic myths. Additionally, the critical essay on the mathematization of the economics profession is valuable: It helps to buttress Bauer's thesis that economics is not an &quot;ivory tower profession&quot; (my words): It is a social science that must rely heavily on historical investigation and direct observation; it is not, nor can it ever be, like the natural sciences of physics and chemistry. The attempt to make it more &quot;respectable&quot; by hiding simple truths among complex formulae, or worse, by deriving conclusions from mathematical models that do not resemble the real world, has resulted in putting elaborate clothes on a non-existent emperor (Bauer's words). It has also fueled fallacious attacks on the entire field and reduced both public understanding of and respect for economics. Bauer's essay on that topic is a breath of fresh air.   <br />In discussing popular myths, Bauer tackles the &quot;viscous circle of poverty,&quot; among numerous others, e.g., that the West is rich because the Third World is poor. Often these myths are based on similar false premises. For example, the refutation of the vicious circle argument also undermines the exploitation one (noted above). <br />Here's how: If the vicious circle of poverty is correct, then this statement is also: Without outside investment, third world countries cannot break out of the circle of poverty, because they can not save in order to invest in capital, because they live at a subsistence level and (usually) produce only enough to meet short-term needs. <br />Bauer states it better, but that's a decent summary. Bauer takes this to the limit of its logic: If the above were true, then the human race could never have left the stone age: the world never received capital (or any) investment from outside of itself. The vicious circle argument ignores the factors that Bauer notes are  crucial to finding answers to economic problems: namely, &quot;that economic performance depends on personal, cultural, and political factors, on people's aptitudes, attitudes, motivations, and social and political institutions.&quot; <br />That kind of outlook, intuitively valuable, is inimical to modern applied &quot;mathecomics,&quot; the practitioners of which typically deride an outlook like Bauer's as mere &quot;empiricism.&quot; Indeed, Bauer discusses just such a caricature. <br />The argument against the circle of poverty implies that there is no fixed amount of income to be distributed. Again, for someone with an eye on economic history, that should be intuitively true. Yet if there is no fixed income, then the people in the West are not necessarily rich only because the Third World is poor. Bauer notes, having extensively studied the Third World countries and its people, that those with the least number of ties to the West are the worst off! <br />There are so many other insights in this book that to adequately catalog them all would require thousands of words. Yet FSE is short and easy to understand. I read this book alongside Chomsky's &quot;World Orders Old and New&quot; until I realized that Chomsky, when he actually gave an argument, was eviscerated by Bauer's arguments and knowledge. Of course, this represents the merits of Bauer's historical and observational approach to Chomsky's pronouncement from on-high approach. Bauer lives in and describes reality. Chomsky does neither.<br />As a final note, although this book is repetitive as the reviewer below me noted, Bauer's points need to be drilled into people's minds. Repetition of key points and arguments helps to cement them in one's memory; Bauer's excellent and fascinating writing does not get the justice it deserves from this review, and it is not something that, once read, you will want to forget.	2001-05-19
US	50623404	R15ABYPHUB91F8	0195108590	692520363	Living High and Letting Die: Our Illusion of Innocence	Books	2	49	93	N	N	Peter Unger's Delusions of Reality	This is an amazingly brilliant and hopelessly flawed work by philosopher Peter Unger. I read this book for my political philosophy class after reading Nozick's &quot;Anarchy, State &amp; Utopia.&quot; Although an interesting work in moral philosophy, I believe Unger seriously misunderstands important truths about the extended order of societies, which leads him to moral conclusions that would have consequences far beyond his comprehension.<br />First, a slight philosophical objection: Although not explicit, and denied by my professor, I believe there is a hidden consequentialist premise in this book. Although Unger never admits it, it is obvious to anyone who reads the book that some conception of the greater good for the greatest number guides Unger's thinking. Unger gives plently of examples in the cases he constructs in the book, with one being the contrast in chapter 2 between &quot;The Envelope&quot; and &quot;The Vintage Sedan:&quot; In the former, you receive an envelope from UNICEF and come to believe that if you do not send in $100, 30 more children will die soon. You don't send the money and they die. In the Sedan case, you come across a man who has cut himself on barbed wire and is in danger of losing his leg. Not wanting to get blood all over your leather back seat, which would land you a bill for $5000, you drive away and he loses his leg.<br />Most people respond that your behavior in the Envelope was acceptable, but in the Sedan case it was seriously morally wrong. Unger wishes to argue that, in fact, it is not only wrong in both cases, but MORE wrong in the Envelope: $100 saves 30 lives, as opposed to $5000 saving one. Although not explicitly stated, it seems intuitive that Unger is a utilitarian of some sort, and that this theory underlies his book. But utilitarianism cannot be assumed; it must be argued for. Otherwise one can reject Unger's conclusions simply because he fails to expend even one line of text arguing for untilitarianism as opposed tomoral theories (like deontology) which are at odds with his reasoning. He does make an effort to distinguish between &quot;preservationism,&quot; which preserves our common moral intuitions, and &quot;liberationsim,&quot; which liberates us so we can embrace our true Values.<br />What is interesting about this distinction is that, not only is it disingenuous (Unger is going to &quot;liberate&quot; us from our illusions of innocence), but it allows Unger to sneak in his utilitarianism without actually arguing for it. The connotations of liberate and preserve are sneaky psychological devices designed to circumvent actual argument for Unger's consequentialism. Unger the Liberator? Please.<br />I do not write this as someone opposed to consequentialist theories, only as a point to those who read this book that Unger's underlying moral views upon which this book is predicated are not only not stated, they are not even argued for. That blatant omission distracts from an otherwise fascinating work in moral philosophy.<br />Another criticism is that Unger clearly fails to appreciate the spontaneous order of civilization and how opposed to that his conclusions are. Indeed, Unger writes as if he has never left his office and stepped into the real world of the extended order of civilization. A hefty dose of Hayek is in order; as an antidote to this book, I recommend &quot;The Fatal Conceit.&quot;<br />In it Hayek argues that the fatal conceit is the thought that people can consciously design spontaneously ordering evolutionary systems such as law, language, and markets. Recent advances in computer technology have led to the development of ingenious simulations which have confirmed Hayek's theory of spontaneous order beyond all but the most ignorant doubt.<br />Yet a political philosophy based on Unger's book not only goes entirely against such brilliant insight, but also would lead to consequences which are far worse than the suffering Unger hopes to alleviate. To be fair toUnger, this is not a book discussing what Unger thinks the State should do. But Unger is a strong supporter of massive tranfers of wealth, so much so that I highly doubt he would object to a State mandated distribution scheme based on this book. Indeed, I suspect he actively encourages it.<br />Another criticism from Hayek is that traditions which are beneficial tend to contribute to the prosperity of the culture that practices them, yet such traditions may fail rational justification. Although better spelled out in the aforementioned work, the tradition of respecting several property helped lead to the formation of the extended order of prosperous civilization. Unger's almost *total* disregard for several property would have disastrous consequences: there would be no incentive to produce anything, and certainly no reason to contribute to the alleviation of suffering Unger claims is morally required.<br />But traditions (such as respecting property) do not meet Unger's standard of justification, as will be obvious to a reader of this book. Just because Unger can find no obvious moral reason we should (for example) respect property does not mean that we should not respect it. The beneficial long term consequences of respecting property rights are well documented by economists and should be intuitively obvious to most people (sans Unger).<br />It is an inability of Unger to take his views to their logical conclusions (or even to imply that he understands long term consequences at all) which damage this book. Also, he fails to even consider opposing arguments by people such as Hayek, who, although not all philosophers, have offered powerful consequentialist defences of the rights of several property. I only use property rights as an example; Unger simply fails to consider any implication of his views, or arguments against what would be disasterous consequences, yet he appears to be a consequentialist.<br />When debating a critic of the long run consequences of his economic ideas, John Maynard Keynes exclaimed, &quot;In the long run we are all dead.&quot; Hopefully, like Keynes, the ideas in this book will pass away.<br />As a final note, Unger makes a strong case for charitable giving. If anything good can come from this book, it will be that. If my political philosophy professor is reading this review, I am just kidding.	2001-05-03
US	50623404	R3LCZRV1428BMP	0631187855	715540821	A Companion to Ethics	Books	4	39	41	N	N	Great introduction, some defects	I found this book to be a great introduction to all aspects of ethics. It leaves no area untouched: everything from Buddhist ethics to deontology, consequentialism, virtue theory, the nature of morality, and much much more is covered here. Indeed, I would say that anyone who wants a survey of this area of philosophy need look no further.<br />But the book has several glaring flaws. Notably, it appears that some of the choices of essays were slightly biased. A case in point: the two essays on comtemporary deontology and consequentialism. The essay on deontology appears to not be written by an actual deontologist, and the author spent most of the essay bringing up silly objections that even I, as a first year undergraduate philosophy major, could answer. This is in stark contrast to the essay on consequentialism, written in a tone that barely escapes arrogance by its end. <br />There is nothing wrong with having a die-hard supporter of consequentialism write an essay introducing people to the topic. If this book were better, all of the essays would've been written with just that goal in mind. To pick essays not written by people who actually subscribe to the ethical theory in question is simply poor editing, because often the writer reveals her ignorance. This reduces the quality of the book, instead of giving each ethical theory the best possible promulgation. Indeed, it's not as if deontology is so unpopular that Singer couldn't have found one to write about it. <br />If anything, a better choice of essays would've made this book more useful than it actually is. Indeed, one of the interesting things about the essay on &quot;universal perscriptivism&quot; by R.M. Hare, was that the table of contents actually claims that the article is written by the theory's originator and best spokesman. If all the essays were written by their respective theory's &quot;best spokesman,&quot; than this book would have 5 stars.<br />Apart from these glaring flaws, the book remains a well edited companion to ethics. There is coverage (even if sometimes poor) given to almost every possible ethical theory, the history of ethics, applied ethics (just war, business ethics, etc.), and various ethical views (i.e., realism, naturalism, relativism, etc.). Anyone interested in a breif overview of the entire field of morality should start here.	2001-03-10
US	50623404	R1VOWYJ5FHW0QW	1573922285	751998454	Nonbelief & Evil: Two Arguments for the Nonexistence of God	Books	5	11	15	N	N	Simply Amazing	Drange has written what I believe to be the best statement of the Argument from Evil (AE) ever, and he also introduces, for the first time, the Argument from Non-Belief (ANB). This book is just brilliant. Drange is meticulous and logical; he leaves no stone unturned. The book is divided into two parts. One devoted to AE, the other to ANB. The book also contains apendixes that deal with interesting issues like free will. <br />Drange applies AE to four definitions of God: evangelical and liberal Xianity, and Orthodox and liberal Judaism. He culls definitions from the Bible, which is where he looks for answers to what God would most likely desire, i.e., to have people believe in him (for example). This helps Drange to get around the difficult issue of: How do we know God really wants to prevent evil? or whatever. Using the Bible as a resource was both a refreshing way of looking at AE, and a bit of a teaching experience about the Bible. <br />Often Drange argues conservatively. Even when I thought his arguments were much more forceful, he heald back. His statement of objections and attempts to reply are riddled with these principles of fairness: Far from being un-balanced, I was somewhat annoyed that Drange appeared to give his opponents more credibility than they deserved. This just shows his desire to be fair and balanced, and by the end of the book I had realized two things. <br />First, AE isn't as strong as many people think it is, once we are no longer discussing the prima facie absurd god of evangelical Xianity. Second, Drange's conservative style of arguing actually makes his arguments that much stronger: you know that he's trying to be fair, and his writing illicits trust from the reader. <br />ANB is actually much stronger than AE, according to Drange. I won't discuss the argument here. It may be that ANB is stronger only because this book is its first showing to the philosophical community: theists will respond in time. But the fairness and meticulous argumentation that was used with AE is used with ANB as well. <br />This book is simply a must have. Both for its brilliant statement of AE and its promulgation of the very powerful ANB. <br />For those looking for more treatment of AE, &quot;The Evidential Argument from Evil&quot; is another great book. It contains 10 articles by theists, and 6 by non-theists. But the contributors respond to each other, so there's some active, interesting debate.	2001-03-05
US	50623404	R3E0LW1JG4NEY9	0415926475	43222321	Drug Crazy: How We Got into This Mess and How We Can Get Out	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Exposes the failure of the drug war	Mike Gray has written an excellent book exposing the disaster that is US drug policy. This book's value is in bringing the war to the general public, who may not have a taste for detailed policy reportage. Using real life examples, Gray communicates his message clearer than if he had filled the book with dry statistics and legal reasoning.<br />But therein lies what kept me from giving the book five stars. Gray's book does a great job of showing the drug war to be a total failure, but Gray leaves us with our hope eviscerated. Do we legalize drugs, or should we force people into &quot;treatment?&quot; Gray appears to prefer option two, which may turn out to be just as bad as the current system of forced imprisonment. <br />This book is an excellent demonstration of the failure of the drug war. Anyone who needs a short, well-written introduction to this issue should read Gray's book. For greater depth from a public policy, philosophical, or legal perspective, read, &quot;Drug Warriors &amp; Their Prey,&quot; or &quot;Friedman &amp; Szasz On Liberty And Drugs.&quot;	2001-02-28
US	50623404	R285MNUMTV12VB	0415093384	389326620	Arguing for Atheism: An Introduction to the Philosophy of Religion	Books	5	23	26	N	N	Brilliant critique of theism	Robin Le Poidevin has written one of the best books defending atheism. He fairly and accurately considers his opponent's arguments, yet he still goes through meticulously and points out the flaws in each one. <br />The book is divided into three parts. Part one should be the most interesting to the atheist. Poidevin discusses theistic explanations, like the cosmological and teleological arguments, and finds them to be wanting. His discussion is fair and balanced, and he takes interesting approaches to dealing with them (for example, his discussion of modal realism in regards to the ontological argument). <br />In part two Poidevin attempts to make arguments *for* atheism, instead of simply refuting theistic claims. This section may appeal less to the atheist and theist than to someone who is still &quot;unsure.&quot; I found his treatment of the problem of evil (AE) to be interesting, yet he claims that it is &quot;the most powerful argument for atheism,&quot; which is a bit of an overstatement. At best, AE offers support to an atheist, but it is not the knock-down argument Poidevin makes it out to be. His other argument &quot;for&quot; atheism is really just pointing out the problems with theistic ethics. He states the Euthyphro dilemma, then discusses the ethics in much greater depth. I won't go into it here, but although his discussion was interesting, I am not sure it is really an argument &quot;for&quot; atheism.<br />Part three will probably not interest the atheist all, but the theist may find it more interesting than parts 1 or 2. As an atheist, I found all 3 parts to be interesting, and part 3 especially so for its treatment of difficult issues. Part three asks if religion may have pragmatic value (the answer is yes), and if so, can that be salvaged by the atheist (Poidevin's answer again is yes). Part three also deals with the issues of death and whether we can have meaningful discourse about God at all. All in all, I found part 3 the most interesting because it deals with issues that most theists find more important than the newest statement of the teleological argument: Should the atheist fear death? How can the atheist salvage the comfort of religion from the fact that god is a fiction? etc. These issues often don't appeal to the person who already is an atheist, but Poidevin's treatment of them shows his breadth of understanding about issues that the atheist faces.<br />One final note: This book is not extremely difficult, but I do not agree with another reviewer here that said it is accessible to the non-philosopher. If you've never read any philosophy before, you will probably find this at least minimally difficult. Poidevin defines terms beforehand, and he restates things often enough to keep most people from getting lost, but the preface of the book states that it is written for a &quot;second or third year undergraduate philosophy of religion or metaphysics course.&quot; Some background in philosophy will make this book more enjoyable and you'll get more out of it. <br />All in all, this is so far the best book arguing for atheism that I have ever read. It deals with issues that are important to both atheists and theists, and Poidevin treats his opponents with fairness. This text is simply a must have for anyone interested in the philosophy of religion.	2001-02-25
US	50623404	R3649DU2NL4G8X	0275950425	134079422	Drug Warriors and Their Prey: From Police Power to Police State	Books	5	28	32	N	N	Now that I've read this book, I want to burn a flag.	This is one of the most powerful books I've read in a long time. Richard L. Miller deserves an award. In this book, the author details the erosion of civil liberties by the current war on drugs. For those familiar with this area, he trots out the typical points: harsh penalties for minor violations and loss of civil liberties for all.<br />But what makes this book special is the author's analysis of legal issues and history. Richard Miller is an independent scholar who has written about Nazi justice (in &quot;Nazi Justiz&quot;). I thought his application of Nazi jurisprudence to the drug war was overkill at first. Little did I know just how wrong I was. As one reviewer put it, this book will help you lose weight. <br />What sets this book above the others on the drug war is that Miller explains how the war effects the innocent, and how innocence is no longer an adequate defense. In fact, Miller has a Justice Department official quoted as saying that innocence was not a defense to forfeiture of assets. He argues that asset forfeiture has corrupted law enforcement at all levels. <br />In one example, Miller tells of an elderly couple in one California county who owned a mutil-million dollar ranch adjacent to a national park. Apparently, the Park Service wanted the land, the local law enforcement the assets (in the form of the house, possessions, etc.). Thus, police had to get a warrant to raid the property. First, they searched it illegally. This is a typical tactic of DEA agents and local law enforcement, who search a house and either plant or discover evidence that they can use to get a warrent later. Regardless, the courts have determined that even illegal searches and seizures are acceptable in the war on drugs. All of this is documented in the book. Even in the illegal search, no drugs were discovered. An elderly couple, go figure? <br />If you think that stopped the police, DEA, et al., then you haven't read the book. One local officer testified before a judge that &quot;thousands&quot; of marijuana plants were being cultivated on the property. This testimony was based on a lie told to the officer by another. Although both were aware of the lie (and the couple's complete innocence of ANYTHING), this way neither officer could be chared with perjury. Needless to say, the judge issued the warrant.<br />During the raid, the husband was sleeping. He was roused awake by his wife's screaming and was shot to death as he put down his rifle, which he had becuase he thought he was being robbed and was defending his wife. The agents participating in the raid evicted the wife. Even agents of the U.S. Park Service were involved, in case you doubted their complicity.<br />It gets better. The location of the ranch was in a different county than the one in which the local police were from! They went out of their own jurisdiction for the express purpose of seizing property from people THEY KNEW were innocent. All of this was expressed by the county prosecutor (where the ranch was), when he said that they appeared to be motivated by a desire to obtain the property and assests of its owners.<br />This book is meticulously documented and researched. The analysis of the legal issues with references to the Nuremburg Tribunal and Nazi legal principles is stunning. As well as his telling of the internment of Japenese-Americans to demonstrate how segments of society can be treated if the propaganda warriors desire their elimination.<br />If you're not enraged by the time you're finished reading this book, your heart is dead.	2000-12-30
US	50623404	R7M0JF7YPTW10	0520219813	606013413	Living the Bill of Rights: How to Be an Authentic American	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Not perfect, but a decent book nonetheless	I thought this was a pretty good book, which makes one wonder why I only gave it three stars. It's all summed up in the title to the Introduction, &quot;Tell them stories about how our liberties were won and what keep them alive.&quot; That comes from the mouth of Supreme Court Justice William Brennan in a conversation with the author.<br />All in all, Hentoff does a decent job. The first chapter on William O. Douglas was easily the best of the book. A story of a man who was deeply committed to the Bill of Rights for ALL Americans, not just the ones with popular views. <br />The only reason I gave the book 3 stars was that I just did not agree with all of the stories selected by Hentoff as giving examples of, in the author's words, &quot;authentic Americans.&quot; Chapters 6, 7, and 8 come to mind.  Chapters 6 and 7 deal with Dr. Kenneth Clark, an integrationist. <br />Now, I'm no segregationist, but I firmly believe in the right of people to choose to segregate themselves. I don't agree with it, but I also don't believe in using the force of government to make people live, work, and play together. Hentoff and Dr. Clark disagree.<br />...<br />All in all, three chapters devoted to this issue was a bit much, although many of the stories in them were valuable. For example, also in chapter 8, was a story about a high school that required people running for homecoming court to disclose their race. Why? Because the court had to be 1/2 white and 1/2 black. Clearly that is wrong: the government should not use race as a factor if people really are equal before the law.<br />Finally, Hentoff's views on Clinton do not impact the quality of this book.... Just because Hentoff doesn't like Clinton, does not mean one should give his book bad reviews. Clinton is mentioned 5 times out of a book of more than 200 pages, and Hentoff's points are valid. The Clinton administration has presided over a vast expansion of the war on drugs which greatly curtailed civil liberties (the FBI's Carnivore system comes to mind), and has overlooked Chinese human rights violations, among other things.<br />Overall, I wish I could've given this book 3.5 stars. I didn't feel it was worth 4. The title of the book, &quot;Living the Bill of Rights,&quot; makes it sound like anyone who disagrees with any of the positions promulgated in the stories somehow doesn't care about the Bill of Rights, or isn't &quot;an authentic American.&quot; Yet that just isn't true. Many people who opposse forced busing, for example, do so because they believe in freedom of association. Hentoff is walking a fine line, and disagreement is valuable and I encourage it. But the book went just a bit too far. <br />It's still a valuable contribution, and the majority of the stories should make most people proud to live in a country that has a bill of rights. Hopefully it will also make people more likely to defend it.	2000-12-13
US	50623404	R1Q2SRT8U721WK	0930073029	156045134	For a New Liberty: The Libertarian Manifesto	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Rothbard is simply brilliant	Murray Rothbard, an &quot;anarcho-capitalist,&quot; writes a brilliant promulgation of liberty, natural rights theory, and property rights all derived from a non-agression axiom. <br />This book is a great introduction to the &quot;extreme&quot; side of libertarianism, and although I don't agree with all of Rothbard's insight, I was blown away by his clear prose, meticulous logic, and thoughtful points that jump off every page.<br />Unlike the reviewer below who gave this book 1 star, I actually read it. Rothbard doesn't side step ANYTHING. He discusses economics from a refreshing free-market prespective, demonstrating the freedom such a market would allow. But more importantly, he tackles issues that many people think libertarians fear: roads, police, and the environment. His pollution solution is simple and derived from a Lockean theory of property rights: you own yourself; if pollution harms you, it is &quot;invading&quot; your property. Thus, pollution is a tort (something one can sue over), or it is illegal, because it is illegal to violate one's right to self-ownership without providing just compensation. <br />Property rights have a tradition grounded in John Locke's work on natural law theory. In fact, far from not defining property rights, Rothbard quotes extensively from Locke's &quot;Civil Government&quot; to define them AND he defends them throughout the entire book but extensively in the first chapter,&quot;Property and Exchange.&quot; <br />Of course, if the reviewer from Mississippi State (who gave 1 star) needs someone to &quot;define&quot; property rights for him better than Rothbard did than perhaps he is beyond help. It also is nice if someone reads a book before they review it. Note: the reviewer claimed that Rothbard's ideas simply mean &quot;one dollar, one vote.&quot; From an anarchist perspective there wouldn't be anyone to vote for.<br />Nevertheless, I can't say I agree with all of Rothbard's work. Anarcho-capitalism wins the moral argument, as Rothbard shows here and in &quot;Ethics of Liberty,&quot; his in-depth scholarly work, but I am not sure it is a system that will ever come about without overthrowing the government, and hence using violence. <br />Perhaps I'm too pessimistic. But this book is still great for even miniarchists, or those interested in a clear articulation of libertarian solutions to current world problems from a natural rights perspective. There is no better philosopher to start with.	2000-12-13
US	50623404	R29U10BJ889HRK	080185654X	392307752	Treatise on the Gods (Maryland Paperback Bookshelf)	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Fair, lucid, and brilliant	This book is Mencken at his best. Far from being biased, this book is the most objective approach to religion I have ever read. Most books that discuss comparative religions do not attempt to go to the beginning: when man first tried to tame the forces of nature through evocation of some deity. That speculation is actually one of the reasons why this book is an extremely valuable contribution to the philosophy of religion.  <br />Mencken does not claim that fear is the only religious impulse (as asserted below), although he does believe that fear is an important one. Mencken believes that the religious impulse is a desire to exert control over the forces that command one's destiny. <br />He delivers a fair, logical, and certainly NOT biased look at religions world-wide from the beginning of history to the present. His critiques of Christianity (for example, his examinations of the Bible) are now accepted as true even by Christian theologians. The book's examination of Christianity alone is worth twice the price, but coupled with a dispassionate analysis of comparative religions makes it priceless. Mencken's discussion of the roots of many Christian practices make for enlightening reading. Regardless of one's faith, there is a treasure trove of knowledge here. Most people have never attempted to take an intellecutal look at religion or its history: Mencken does both, with this amazingly thought provoking and scholarly work.	2000-12-10
US	50623404	R39UBMJJQ2YDC	0060977728	855973047	The Shadow University: The Betrayal Of Liberty On America's Campuses	Books	5	50	59	N	N	Shocking eye-opener	&quot;Shadow University&quot; is like a slap in the face. The authors present well articulated and documented anecdotes of the rampant Political Correctness that plagues America's universities. <br />Beginning with the &quot;water buffalo&quot; affair, the authors detail the complete lack of due process, the destruction of liberty, and the utter lack of respect for conservative or libertarian views by college administrators. <br />The last chapter of the book is titled, &quot;Sunlight Is the Best Disinfectant.&quot; That's exactly what this book serves to do. It throws light on the racism of the &quot;multicult&quot; movement that is systematically destorying higher education in America. I can not offer more praise for this book: story after story will make you enraged if you care about free speech and free thought. It's about time someone exposed the hypocrisy hiding at our campuses. Kors and Silvergate brilliantly do exactly that.	2000-12-10
US	50623404	R1Q3NM92BZNDHN	0684827360	187598424	For Your Own Good: The Anti-Smoking Crusade and the Tyranny of Public Health	Books	5	38	44	N	N	Clear, lucid, fair, and meticulously logical.	Jacob Sullum has written what can only be described as a breath of fresh air in a current of noxious fumes. This book is a fair and balanced account of the anti-smoking movement and has received favorable reviews in such prestigious medical journals as the &quot;Lancet,&quot; and the &quot;New England Journal of Medicine.&quot;<br />The critiques of the propaganda used by the public heath movement to scare people: the assertion that advertising causes smoking, for example, are particularly interesting. The demolishment of the assertion that the hazards of smoking were recently discovered (actually, James I published one of the first anti-tobacco pamphlets in 1604) should make anyone considering suing the tobacco industry to recover damages take pause.<br />This is one book you will not be able to put down. Everything is documented, so checking Sullum's sources is easy. Regardless of your position on smoking, this book's clear detail about tobacco and its enemies will make for enlightening reading. <br />I must respond to what I think are genuine attempts to commit ad hominem attacks. One reviewer simply noted, without reading the book (it was obvious), that because Sullum in an editor of Reason magazine, his book and everything he says should (essentially) be ignored. Reason magazine is published by the Reason Foundation, which has accepted donations from tobacco companies in the past. Ergo, using the logical fallacy of ad hominem, one should ignore everything Mr. Sullum writes. This kind of reasoning is the last haven of the ignorant. <br />In the Introduction, Sullum notes that less than 1% of the Reason Foundation's budget has ever been funded by the tobacco industry, and that Philip Morris has bought ad space in Reason Magazine. Yet he also points out that his job is not dependent on Philip Morris, and that Reason has never (and does not) assert control over his writing. Sullum was a critic of the anti-smoking movement long before working at Reason and this bookalso criticizes the tobacco industry. Hardly the work of someone who is a flack for Philip Morris. <br />And finally, imagine what the reviewer said is true. Namely, that money makes results. At once the entire foundation of modern science is destroyed. The anti-smoking movement gets funded too, by groups that have a financial stake in getting less people to smoke (like the Federal government, for example). Ergo, anything the anti-smoking movement says is biased because it is in their own self-interest. We must accept this if we committ the ad hominem fallacy. If we are not stupid morons, we should look at the evidence. If Jacob Sullum is a tobacco pawn, then his book wouldn't stand up to critical review. Yet it does, as evidenced by the reviews in leading medical journals that are favorable.<br />Something I want to point out that Sullum did not have access to when he wrote &quot;For Your Own Good:&quot; The EPA's classification of secondhand smoke as a class A carcinogen was declared void by a federal judge in 1998 due to gross scientific errors, manipulation of statistical results, and methodology designed to yield data preferable to the anti-smoking side only. <br />That should make one pause when reading the reviews about how Sullum missed the mark on secondhand smoke. Actually, he hit the nail right on the head.	2000-12-03
US	50623404	RU0G8IEPO95XB	0226264017	218317724	Capitalism and Freedom (Phoenix Books)	Books	5	268	321	N	N	Compelling and informative	Milton Friedman, far from just paraphrasing Keynes, has given a grand refutation of Keynesian economics as well as argued persuasively for the free-market.<br />&quot;Capitalism and Freedom&quot; dispels the myths about capitalism that have become so prevalent in our society: that the free-market caused the depression (it was actually a tyrannical Federal Reserve), that socialism can be democratic, and others. Milton's prose is clear and the book is good for those who haven't majored in economics. He gives an unwavering defense of personal freedom and individual autonomy from a minimalist government perspective.<br />This book is an important contribution to public discourse and although written about 40 years ago, still has relevance today.<br />Friedman discusses public education, roads, minimum wage laws (which he calls, &quot;the most anti-black law on the statute books,&quot; and rightfully so as you'll see if you read this book), as well as the how so-called &quot;progressive&quot; tax system and welfare actually hurt the poor.<br />Friedman's other great contribution is &quot;Free to Choose,&quot; which was written about 20 years ago and expounds on the ideas in &quot;Capitalism and Freedom&quot; in a bit more depth. But this is a good, short, concise book to start with that'll get you asking questions.	2000-11-18
US	50623404	R3E7HRPQOVEUSD	0140268456	30944487	Buzz: The Science and Lore of Alcohol and Caffeine	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Concise and witty, will entertain and inform.	&quot;Buzz&quot; by Stephen Braun is one of the best science books I've read in a while. Mr. Braun destroyes popular myths about society's most  popular drugs, and he replaces those myths with facts and evidence. Often  those facts are just as interesting as the myths! <br />The book is witty and  full of insight and advice about caffeine and alcohol. A must read for  people curious about the two most popular drugs on the planet.	2000-08-05
US	50623404	R37N7SR78EKN4O	1878825046	819392602	Secrets, Lies and Democracy (The Real Story Series)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Important contribution	Chomsky and I disagree on a lot, but he offers some compelling insight  into the organizations that usurp modern democracy. Organizations such as  the CIA and the media, for example. He also has thoughts about gun control,  fundamentalism, and even sports.<br />I'd reccommend it for anyone interested  in wanting to know more about the world around them, or about Chomsky's  views.	2000-08-05
US	50623404	R1ZFQC39HL38BG	0553214063	201213691	The Communist Manifesto	Books	4	12	20	N	N	Important contribution to political theory	Before I get nasty emails accusing me of being a &quot;card carrying&quot;  member of some left-wing poltical organization, let me state: No, I'm not a  member of some left-wing political organization.<br />Marx's  &quot;Manifesto&quot; is an important contribution to political theory  world-wide. He makes predictions about capitalism that, although untrue in  1850, are becoming true now: for example, Marx writes of the global  economy, the reduction in power of the nation-state, and other features of  modern capitalism that were unknown in Marx's time.<br />It is these features  of capitalism (i.e., powerful multi-national conglomerates) that cause  anti-capitalist sentiment. If people want to preserve the current  free-market system, then they should be looking at the statements of the  opposition. <br />Although the Manifesto cannot be said to be an accurate (or  even full) critique of capitalism, it can show where capitalists need to  move: protecting workers from exploitation, for example.<br />People that  attacked this book based on their opposition to Communism missed the point,  the Manifesto offers more to capitalism than Communism because it can show  why (in a small part) people think evil things about the  free-market.<br />Capitalists of the world unite, indeed.	2000-08-05
US	50623404	R1A6CLHYOQAGSX	1883536065	430285700	Battle for the Mind: A Physiology of Conversion and Brainwashing - How Evangelists, Psychiatrists, Politicians, and Medicine Men Can Change Your Beliefs and Behavior	Books	5	6	8	N	N	This book changed my life too!	Like another reviewer here, this is a book that I will never forget. I must've been about 16 years old when I read it while I was flying from  Florida to Wisconsin. I have never enjoyed a layover so much before.  Sargant bases his physiology on I.P. Pavlov's &quot;Conditioned  Reflexes,&quot; in other words, Pavlov's famous dogs. This is the first  book I read that made me question religion. But it is not written, as the  moron from Sydney put it, to do so. Most of the book has nothing to do with  religion, and certainly has nothing to do with the cold war. <br />Much of the  book's information comes from World War I and II (a departure from Pavlov,  who died in the 1930s), as well as other later conflicts, but in a lesser  degree. This has nothing to do with the Cold War, or that period in time  when it occurred. Instead this book is an amazing look at human nature from  a scientific perspective (the only perspective that actually gets humanity  somewhere), the author states, upfront, that he has great respect for  people's personal beliefs and that this book can not answer to the truth or  falsehood of them. Sargant also NEVER states that he is an atheist, in  fact, I think that with all his concessions to religion at the beginning,  even thought the book had almost nothing to say on the subject, that he  probably was a faithful man who didn't want to step on toes.<br />All in all,  this book is really powerful. You may never look at the world around you in  the same way again. In fact, I'm sure you won't, if you actually understand  the book, unlike some of the people who've reviewed it.	2000-08-03
US	50623404	R2H7REOJOLR0RO	1566250250	898548306	Traffic Ticket Defense	Books	5	0	3	N	N	Screw the system!	No, not really, but this book is a must for people who want to know how to  better defend themselves in court. In today's society where you're guilty  until YOU can prove yourself innocent, more people should be aware of their  rights, and how to protect them. If you need that awareness, than this is  your book.	2000-08-03
US	50623404	R17ALFR8K1MAU7	0671203231	224357917	Why I Am Not a Christian and Other Essays on Religion and Related Subjects	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Easy to read collection of essays	This book by Russell is a great book on the moral problems promulgated by Christianity and religion in general. Russell's writing is poetic and even  fun to read. Although this book is not supposed to be an argument for  Atheism, it is supposed to be an argument for philosophy and logic. Russell  gives religion the moral one-two punch, and leaves so-called religious  morality eviscerated. <br />All in all, this book is better at discussing  ethics and morality than almost anything I've read.	2000-08-03
US	50623404	R2X2FNEL544GKX	039331524X	923776388	The Godless Constitution: The Case Against Religious Correctness	Books	5	15	24	N	N	Dead right	This book does a perfect job of demolishing the myth of the so-called religious foundings of our country, and it does so without resorting to  attacks or political bias. In fact, I think the authors tended to lean to  the right politically, but that is just opinion. <br />The book, however is  excellent and should be required reading for students in high school. Of  course, that would probably violate the church/state separation that the  Constitution protects. Interesting how the First Amendment that the  Religious Right disdains actually protects them and their views. Pathetic.	2000-08-03
US	50623404	RXQJDX9TC22UT	1573920533	991184537	The Most Dangerous Man in America?: Pat Robertson and the Rise of the Christian Coalition	Books	5	24	34	N	N	What a scary, sinister, pathetic individual	I had never paid much attention to the Christian Coalition or Pat Robertson. Now, I actually worry that my children (assuming, of course,  that the new theocratic government allows me to have any) will grow up in a  land that is no different from that portrayed in George Orwell's classic  novel, &quot;1984.&quot;<br />Of course, I do not believe that Robertson's  agenda will become law anytime soon, but it is the platform of the  Republican Party. Boston's book is well researched and documented. It will  scare you, it will make you laugh (how could these people actually exist  you'll think), it may make you cry. But it's no movie thriller, and you may  wish that you never heard of a man named Pat Robertson.	2000-08-03
US	50623404	R3HVLNZWIWWDLH	006131983X	396876000	Obedience to Authority	Books	5	0	1	N	N	People are really really bad things	Well, if you have any faith left in the power of the human race to do anything productive (and if you've been reading my other reviews than you  probably don't), get ready to lose it here. <br />This book details  experiments done in the 60s and 70s (I think) and repeated all over the  world. People were tested on how long they would shock a person under the  guise of a scientific authority figure. Many variations were used, but the  central theme was for the most part similar. An authority figure would  order a person to administer shocks to another person if that person  answered a question wrong (there were questions obviously). The person  answering was a trained actor, either in another room or sitting next to  the shocker. <br />The scientist and the actor knew that the experiment was a  fake, the person shocking didn't. You will not believe the results. Here is  an explanation for the unswerving obedience of people to the Nazis, to the  Inquisition, Crusades, the police, anyone in authority.  <br />Most subjects  shocked the actor past maximum voltage, to lethal doses; they  &quot;killed&quot; the actor. Or would have killed if the experiment was  &quot;real.&quot; They were men, women, college educated or high school  graduates, white and blue collar workers from every possible background.  The results were the same almost every single time: People obey authority  REGARDLESS of what the authority figure is telling them to do, even if it  is to injure another human being. <br />Don't buy this book, you'll regret it.  Trust me.	2000-08-03
US	50623404	R1D3YLQA2XZH0Y	087975124X	506739930	Atheism: The Case Against God (The Skeptic's Bookshelf)	Books	4	7	11	N	N	Great intro to logic and objectivist metaphysics	I can see by reading other reviews that many people did not read this  book, or worse, completely misunderstood it. First, I do not think it is a  great introduction to Atheism; the book is about 20 years old and needs to  be revised (philosophy does change). <br />This book is a wonderful  introduction to the so-called &quot;laws of logic.&quot; In fact, I have  not yet read a better argument for Objectivist metaphysics. Objectivist  metaphysics is simply reality. We gain knowledge of reality from our  senses, thus Smith argues that faith is not a method of cognition, but of  feeling. And feeling does not make it so (whatever &quot;it&quot; is). This  is not empiricism, as I read one reviewer call it. This is reality based  metaphysics. As Smith already made the point, I'm not going to  argue.<br />However, a better inroduction to Objectivism would be,  &quot;Objectivism: the philosophy of Ayn Rand.&quot; I have two suggestions  for people interested in Atheism: First, &quot;What is Atheism&quot; by  Doug Krueger. The second is, &quot;Arguing for Atheism: an introduction to  the Philosophy of Religion&quot; by Robin Le Poidevin.<br />Le Poidevin's book  is recent (1997) but is fairly complex. He discusses issues much harder to  comprehend than in Krueger's book, but Le Poidevin goes into much greater  depth, as well as breadth. Fair warning though, Le Poidevin's book is a  college philosophy text, so you better have some background in the subject.	2000-08-02
US	50623404	RF8XUPVHFPPZX	0451524934	337991686	1984 (Signet Classics)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	So prophetically accurate, it's scary	Orwell's book, &quot;1984&quot; has been banned. It's actuallyone of the top 100 banned books of all time. Interesting, a book whose principal villian is Big Brother, a figment who controls society through an organization called the Thought Police, would be banned by none other than: government organizations here in the Land of the Free, Home of the Brave.  Or is it, &quot;Land of the Chained, Home of the Coward,&quot; I never can tell.<br />Anyway, before I praise the book, I must tell you which organization led the way in banning Orwell's classic: The John Birch Society...An organization of people so far right-wing that they make George W. Bush look like Joseph Stalin. And what side of the political spectrum is supposed to hold the belief in less government and individual autonomy? Oops.<br />So, the real value in this book is this: Orwell is telling us to fight against organizations with these &quot;divine&quot; attributes: omnipotence, omniscience, and omni-benevolence. In English: all-powerful, all-knowing, and all-good. Why is Orwell saying, &quot;fight these things?&quot; Well, what were the government's ministeries called in this book? They were the Ministry of Love, whose business was hate (that's all-loving); the Ministry of Truth, whose business was lies (that's all-knowing), the Ministry of Peace, whose business was war (that's all powerful) I believe there was another one, but it is not important.<br />The point here is the message from the book. Orwell wrote this book not only as a warning against totalitarian government, but also against totalitarian religion. He was a socialist and an atheist. When the government says it knows what's best because it's the government and the government is all-knowing, then we've got problems. When the Fundamentalist says that he knows what's best for you because he knows God's word, which is written by God, and God is all-knowing, so if anyone knows what's best it's God, and the Fundamentalist knows what God wants, etc. You can follow the circular reasoning.<br />This book has no other value other than to warn. As an update, Orwell's nightmare may occur some day, hopefully never. But look at these hopefully coincidental highlights: UN troops are called &quot;peacekeepers;&quot; there are three major powers in the world: The US, the EC, and China; fundamentalism is seeing a resurgence world-wide, while liberal religions that allow room for people with another faith, or no faith, are dying; the US government is spending trillions of dollars on a &quot;War on Drugs,&quot; this war can never be won and is being used as an excuse to destroy basic freedoms (police can now almost act with impunity as long as the alleged crime is somehow related to drugs).<br />I could go on, but I have written enough, and the parallels are obvious already. George Orwell must be spinning in his grave.	2000-08-02
US	50623404	R355UEPB5GJKZK	0140165584	983392436	Everyday Ethics: Inspired Solutions to Real-Life Dilemmas	Books	2	4	10	N	N	Not exactly stellar	Okay, so far I'm the only one not extolling the virtues of this little ditty of a book. Why? Simple. <br />Actually, the book is simple. I could've  written it in about three weeks if I didn't have a real job (unlike the  author). While Mr. Halberstam is right to demolish the cliches of religious  morality and our current pop-therapy culture, he does not really offer  anything better. He spends most of the book hinting at the answers to real  moral problems. And although he certainly offers some good suggestions,  such as those about choosing friends for example, this book is simply a few  oases in the middle of a vast parched desert.<br />For example, when I read a  book (non-fiction) I never like the author to tell me to accept his word,  or do it myself. See my review of Charles Murray's &quot;What it Means to  be a Libertarian,&quot; but in simple terms, if someone is so arrogant that  they're going to simply put some balther on a page and say: &quot;Here,  fact&quot; than perhaps that person needs to find productive work. Mr.  Halberstam needs to find productive work, like a postal carrier perhaps. In  his section on moral judgements, he tells us that we can discover more  about our values if we look at our choice of expletives when we swear.  Really? Sounds odd to me...But wait, the author never explains why this is  true, nor does he ever explain any of his assertions. The author also ends  many sentences with a question, as if the answer is particular to every  reader. <br />Finally, this book is deceptive. There is little to do with  ethics in it. It can't even be said that this book focuses on situational  ethics, because even situational ethics require an objective system to base  them on. Mr. Halbertsam's book is not philosophy, and it really isn't great  psychology either. It's okay for a self-help book, but the writing is so  bland and vacuous that the book's entire contents could probably be  compressed into 20 pages.<br />Not only that, but the bookseems to argue for  subjective moral values sometimes, and objective values other times. But  because the author seems to be trying to avoid making any factual  statements whatsoever it is difficult to pin the truth down. <br />You want to  really read about ethics, then try &quot;Bertrand Russell on Ethics.&quot;  A good book on situational ethics is written by Peter Singer titled,  &quot;Situational Ethics.&quot;	2000-08-02
US	50623404	R2OS2RROMN2LLA	0684833395	458864358	Catch-22	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Black comedy and satire at its best	Heller satarizes war with this amazing novel. Yet it also has somber  tones, a theoligical debate, and it promulgates Heller's existentialism.  This book is a rollercoaster ride from emotional highs of uncontrollable  laughter to lows of almost tears. And if there's one thing that needs to be  satarized, it's the military. Heller is brilliant!	2000-08-02
US	50623404	R1Q59NI9FJ95AI	1567510604	29980185	Toxic Sludge is Good For You: Lies, Damn Lies and the Public Relations Industry	Books	5	2	6	N	N	Great eye-opening book!	First, this book really will open your eyes to the world around you. It seems a bit depressing. But the authors did a wonderful job and this book  is meticulously researched and with references. Yes, it is one-sided. It  appears that some people have missed the point: HELLO PEOPLE, one-sided is  exactly what the book is supposed to be! <br />I can hear the morons now,  &quot;Wait, that account of the Nazi's atrocities was one-sided. They did  make those trains run on time!&quot; <br />Nevertheless, it is clear that the  authors took advantage of the same First Amendment right that the PR  industry uses (that would be free speech). Although the authors do tend to  sound a bit pessimistic, the fact that they could even write this book  shows us that the PR industry is not making George Orwell's nightmare a  reality; at least, not yet.	2000-08-02
US	50623404	RA67MAU67ZWSM	0871401622	166109382	The Conquest of Happiness	Books	4	53	60	N	N	Intelligent and eye-opening	I must admit I'm a fan of Russell, so I tend to be a bit biased. But I also think that Russell really has, as one person put it, &quot;hit the nail on the head&quot; with this book on happiness.<br />Russell divides the  book into two parts (essentially). One is devoted to the causes of  unhappiness, with chapters on persecution mania, fear, envy, boredom and  excitement, fatigue, the sense of sin, and fear of public opinion, among  others. I found the chapter on fear to be the most interesting, although  they all were fascinating. In chapter 9, Fear of Public Opinion, Russell  alleges that many people drive themselves to unhappiness by trying to  conform to others and/or being afraid of opprobrium from friends, family,  or co-workers. Of course, the chapter itself is much better than my terse  summary. <br />The next part of the book is devoted to the causes of  happiness, with chpaters on: zest, affection, family, work, hobbies, and  effort. I found this part to be of lower quality than the first. If one  works backward from Russell's causes of unhappiness, than one would come  across interesting ways of finding happiness. In others words, if you  discovered that you were submerged in unbearable (perhaps religious) guilt  all the time, than perhaps some rationalization would help. For example,  let's say you're a woman, you've been raped, and you have an abortion. You  are under a tremendous amount of guilt because you happen to be a  conservative (theologically) Baptist. What do you do about your religious  guilt, which is ruining your life? <br />I think Russell should've devoted a  section to his causes of happiness part of the book to getting out of the  causes of unhappiness. Not that he doesn't make a half-attempt to do this,  but I really would've liked to see whole chapters devoted to the subject,  not whole paragrahps or pages. <br />All in all, this book, taken with all of  Russell's work on social problems, is (as &quot;Time&quot; magazine says) a  modern substitute for the Bible. Russell really does see the problems of  modern society, and his solutions are still relevant after more than 70  years.	2000-08-01
US	50623404	R3EYO75PE8ZFLU	0966036700	580884083	The "God" Part of the Brain: A Scientific Interpretation of Human Spirituality and God	Books	4	21	34	N	N	Excellent personal story  about a scientific journey	This book by Mr. Alper is a wonderful tale of a personal spiritual journey written by an intelligent, honest person. But, although I agree with the conclusion that no gods exist if we can only have knowledge of &quot;things  as we perceive them,&quot; I do not agree with Kantian metaphysics (i.e.,  subjectivism).<br />Alper argues that because human reason is not adequate to  provide us with objective knowledge of reality, a god or gods probably does  not exist (this is a summary, his writing is much more eloquent). Again, I  agree that no gods exist, but not because humans are incapable of answering  that question, but because we are (in other words, I adhere to Objectivist  metaphysics and epistemology). <br />Alper's argument is well written, and is  an important contirbution to religious and atheistic literature. But his  conclusions are based on bad metaphysics. I also think his conclusion could  be turned around: If objective knowledge is not possible for humans, yet we  have a bend toward some kind of vague &quot;spirituality,&quot; then  doesn't that constitute 'prima facie' evidence that a spiritual realm  exists?<br />Of course, Alper would be correct in saying that that means no  religion is capable of &quot;Truth,&quot; but on a &quot;subjectivist&quot;  view, neither is Alper. This book is great as a description of a personal  journey, that is why it got 4 stars. But for an argument for atheism, or  even a discussion of the limits of human knowledge and religion, turn to  &quot;Atheism: the case against God,&quot; or &quot;Objectivism: the  philosophy of Ayn Rand.&quot;	2000-07-30
US	50623404	R28P0TT241ZFS8	0140440046	295639784	Candide: Or Optimism (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	An amazing tale, Voltaire is my hero!	&quot;Candide&quot; by Voltaire is probably the best non-fiction work that I've read in a long time. It serves as a satirical introduction the philosophical problem of evil and as an attack on the philosophy of  optimism, which is still adhered to today, although perhaps not like in  Voltaire's time.<br />Voltaire eviscerates everyone's sacred cows. He  satarizes everything. Nothing is not reduced to rubble by his vitriolic  writing. In &quot;Candide&quot; Voltaire intelligently satarizes:  Christians, Jews, Muslims, war, authority, religious intolerance and  bigotry, free will, determinism, the Bible, priests, imams, monks, France,  the Papacy, the Inquisition, the Catholic Church, the Protestants, the  Jesuits, the Spaniards, the English, Frederick the Great, Gottfried Wilhelm  Leibnitz, the so-called morals of religious figures, as well as optimism,  and pessimism. <br />There is no work of fiction that has a better grounding  in fact than &quot;Candide.&quot; And the final statement of the book, that  we must cultivate our garden, is the most universal task put to mankind. It  serves as an answer to evil, and as an indictment: Life is a garden, your  life is your own garden, YOU must cultivate it in order to reap its  benefits.  Thus, Voltaire ends his razing of life by endowing it with  purpose and meaning.<br />This book is a great adventure in philosophy,  satire, religion, and life. It is an easy read, although it can spawn  discussions and questions bound to confound almost any theologian. Too bad  I can only give it five stars.	2000-07-30
US	50623404	R184LW16OTN6JW	0879753366	297670499	On Liberty (Great Books in Philosophy)	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Why isn't this book society's instruction manual?	J.S. Mill has written the best promulgation of classical liberalism in his book &quot;On Liberty&quot; (OL). Although a socialist himself, many of the ideas in OL are actually tenets of modern libertarianism (also called  classical liberalism). Mill states that the only reason that force can be  used on any man is to prevent harm to others. I consider &quot;focre&quot;  to be either social or economic. Mill saw it as only social, which explains  his socialism.<br />Not to detract from Mill or OL, the book is a resounding  defense of civil-liberties. OL completes modern democratic theory as  promulgated by John Locke in his &quot;Two Treatises of Government.&quot;  While Locke argues for some kind of democracy reminiscent of Athens, Mill  qualifies Locke's point by protecting the minority from the majority. This  book should be read by Americans who want to know more about freedom, and  by our elected officials.<br />Sadly, it's our elected oficials who probably  won't get it.	2000-07-30
US	50623404	R1JVML0K47E3IV	0879752734	324371027	The Age of Reason (Great Books in Philosophy)	Books	5	10	13	N	N	The best promulgation of Deism ever	Paine, the man who coined the words &quot;United States of America&quot; and another of the USA's non-Christian founding fathers, has written what is easily the best book about deism, period. I personally do not accept the  arguments from either design or the anthropic principle, so I am not a  deist (luckily, you won't find nasty words like &quot;anthropic&quot; in  this book, just some outdated English).<br />But what this book does for  biblical criticism is wonderful. Paine burns the &quot;Good News&quot; to  ashes with his wit and brilliant prose. This book, although it would  clearly violate the separation of church and state to have it read in  schools, should nevertheless be read by young people (I read it when I was  18) who are interested in religion. Paine honestly looks at the bible, and  finds it (correctly) to be a pack of lies.<br />I won't quote from the book,  but I can say that what you read in it will never be used by the religious  right when they spout their drivel about our's being a Christian  nation.<br />We are lucky to have had an American as bold as Thomas Paine to  write the truth about religion, I only wish there were people like that  today.	2000-07-30
US	50623404	R2G2SDNML10F0O	0060987359	349304564	Happiness Is a Serious Problem: A Human Nature Repair Manual	Books	2	30	88	N	N	There are better books out there	Mr. Prager hits many problems about happiness on the head. He says that people shouldn't demand unconditional love, shouldn't have unrealistic expectations, and his general point seems to be that people should (must)  work for their happiness. <br />Actually, his point about holding no  expectations was actually the most interesting part of the book. But, this  book does not do the &quot;problem of happiness&quot; much justice. Prager  fails to realize that there are millions of people unlike him who are happy  people, many people do not find happiness in the way he has decreed as the  only &quot;true&quot; way possible. Prager's arrogant claims that a secular  family can't really be grateful for anything and that divine retribution  leads to human happiness are just plain childish and untrue.<br />For a better  treatment of happiness, read &quot;The Conquest of Happiness&quot; by  Bertrand Russell	2000-07-29
US	50623404	R3L62R3ZC6B509	0767900391	565047830	What It Means to Be a Libertarian: A Personal Interpretation	Books	1	37	82	N	N	Insulted my intelligence	I read this book for my high school AP government and politics class, having never heard of libertarianism before. I must say, I am not impressed. It's not the philosophy, libertarianism sounds like a refreshing  choice in today's market of statism. <br />However, this book sucks. Why? For  two reasons, one Mr. Murray did not bother to offer conclusive proof of his  claim that libertarianism is a better alternative to the current size of  government. Two, he does not understand that correlation does not equal  causation. In other words, Mr. Murray would cite statistics (he likes  graphs with &quot;trendlines&quot;), then he would blame the decrease on  government, or note that the line did not change slope after a government  intervention. <br />Worse, he only did that once, with a trendline graph for  automobile accidents. The graph was decreasing before the government  (Federal) enacted the 55 MPH speed limit. After the enactment, the graph  continued to go down. Ergo, Murray says that the Federal action, in this  case the speed limit, was ineffective. Again, correlation does not equal  causation. But like I said, it gets worse. Murray cites other problems that  he says are the fault of the Federal government, then he has the pompous  arrogance to write that if I want proof, than I can go somewhere else  because he isn't going to draw any more pretty trendlines for my  edification. <br />I left Murray's book thinking that libertarians were just a  bunch of anti-government nuts without evidence to back up their claims.  Luckily, I read other literature that left a more favorable impression. As  an introduction, not only do I not think this book is valuable, but I think  it may simply preach to the choir (obviously) and turn off people with  genuine curiosity like myself. <br />You want an introduction to free market  capitalism, read &quot;Objectivism: the philosophy of Ayn Rand&quot; by  Lenord Peikoff (phonic spelling). Not for the entire philossphy of  Objectivism, but because that book actually gives reasons why capitalism is  the only proper social system. <br />A message to all the other reviewers, who  were &quot;True Believers&quot; before they read Murray's drivel:  Get a  better hero.	2000-07-29
US	50623404	R1QS5J1ECEL4W	0375501037	191715854	Darwin's Ghost: The Origin of the Species Updated	Books	5	31	36	N	N	Brilliant and poetic, it's Darwin for Dummies	&quot;Darwin's Ghost&quot; by Steve Jones, a professor of Genetics at Univesity College London, is the best statement of the theory of evolution I've read. Jones reweaves Darwin's &quot;One Long Arguement&quot; into a  format that's easy to understand for non-biologists and lay people. He uses  the new science of genetics and examples from DNA evidence to demonstrate  the proof of evolution: It's in the genes! <br />From the evolution of HIV  into a species that attacks humans, to that virus splitting off into two  species, HIV-1 and HIV-2, each species genetically modified to different  human populations, to the constant evolutionary change of HIV-1 and -2 as  we fight back with anti-viral drugs. Natural Selection never stops. Thanks  to the drugs we use against HIV (and bacteriological infections), we can  see evolution in action, which creationists used to get away with claiming  was impossible. Jones makes us aware of that simple proof: Once again, it's  in the genes. <br />Professor Jones has written a modern version of &quot;The  Origin of Species,&quot; and Jones' work is easier to understand (for most  people) than Darwin's texts. This book is a must for people who want to  understand evolution, which is nothing more than descent with modification  due to Natural Selection.<br />Simple, eloquent proof: &quot;Darwin's  Ghost.&quot; Thank you Steve Jones.	2000-07-28
US	50623404	RRVIDU4PWSEO	0879755784	793031179	Holy Horrors: An Illustrated History of Religious Murder and Madness	Books	5	38	41	N	N	Should be Required Literature in High School	All people, religious or not, should read this book. Mr. Haught does a wonderful job of describing the horrors of what people will do to defend their gods. This is a book that will make anyone think twice about  asserting that religion is only benevolent. Not that religion has no good,  neither me nor Haught assert that, but we must all never allow ourselves to  slide back to the smoke filled days of the Inquisition. The fact that this  book discusses modern religious strife shows that holy hatred is not  something of the past. It walks among us today, a shadow in the light of  reason. We are not here to kill each other, unfortunately most people don't  seem to agree. Thus our secular state: The first amendment doesn't protect  us from God, it protects us from His followers. Unless you think Iran is a  nice place to live, you'll believe in church-state separation after you  read this.	2000-02-06
US	50623404	R1JO0W9VFWXBUK	1573920673	619677722	2000 Years of Disbelief: Famous People with the Courage to Doubt	Books	5	50	54	N	N	Great Start to Learning more about Histories Greatest Minds	This book, while not extremely in-depth, does a great job of showing that  people need not be religious in order to be good, accomplished, human  beings. While some consider it to be a mere anti-religious diatribe, what  the book does is serve as a quick glance at some of history's greatest  freethinkers. There are great theists and atheists; morals, virtue, and  ethics are not restricted to either. This book goes far in showing that.  Also, one point about the quotes. The &quot;Booklist&quot; review says that  they may have been taken out of context. But further research into many of  the people Haught listed in his book show that the quotes he uses are  usually supported by the true views of their author's. I suspect that  Booklist did not research the people, or the quotes, at all, which explains  their shortsighted review.	2000-02-06
US	50623404	R1EKAW2IJOJVSG	0879759224	153885672	Holy Hatred	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Book that should be Required for High Schoolers	Haught discusses only conflicts in the 1990's in this book, which actually stops in 1994. Although when you realize that the book is more than 230 pages long, it puts things into perspective. The reviewer before mine was  reading this at the same time as &quot;Can Man Live Without God?&quot; by  Zachrias (I hope I spelled his name right!), folks the answer is YES! The  fact is that millions of people find live invigorating whether it is with  or without religion. This book, while old, will make you sick (I can think  of no other word to describe how I felt) with the information about  religious hatred, murder, rape, genocide, the list of tortures described in  this book are despicable. Unfortunately, the fact that religion can  engender evil, and in fact, may engender it easier than good, does not make  religious people evil. Personally, I would be much happier if people read  this book, stopped bickering about whether or not something exists out  there, and started obeying some damn commandments. <br />Again, in summary,  this book should be REQUIRED for EVERYONE! It implicitly is a loud, ringing  YES for Jefferson's &quot;wall of separation.&quot; Haught goes around the  world in 230 pages to uncover the evils people will do because they worship  the &quot;One True God.&quot; Or for the Hindu, &quot;The Several True  Gods.&quot; What people will do to pave their neighbors way to Happiness  and Heaven is described in this book.	2000-02-06
US	50623404	R3IHXWGK7KPUIZ	067944243X	642454765	Sleeping with Extra-Terrestrials: The Rise of Irrationalism and Perils of Piety	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Interesting Critique of Popular Culture	Kaminer gives irrationalism the heave-ho (It's supposed to be one-sided!)with an interesting, and thought provoking look at irrationalism. Her discussion of New Age was particularly thorough. Although she offered no solutions, merely comments on the problem (which is  what social critics do), she still enlightens the reader with information  that refutes the ignorant notion that we live in a secular, irreligious  society.	2000-02-05
US	50623404	R2ICNXAFL7FV7G	0879758341	72247421	Why the Religious Right Is Wrong: About Separation of Church & State	Books	5	87	101	N	N	Thank God for Some Common Sense FINALLY!	Boston does an excellent job of defending a principle that too many Americans have been lied to about for too long. With an overview of church-state history, legal issues, and a well-reasoned attack on the  Religious Wrong, Boston's book is a breath of fresh air in the polluted  skies of sectarianism.  A quick note, one of the reviewers of this book  noted that &quot;separation of church and state is not written in the  Constitution.&quot; Ignoring the poor grammar he used, he obviously didn't  read the book. That point, and it is a valid one, is discussed by Mr.  Boston. It is unfortunate in our time that people who have never had a  taste of oppression, never a glimpse of tyranny, seek to run for cover  under state-imposed orthodoxy. Keep the church and state forever separate  in every way. I know what I'm talking about, my family grew up in Iran!	2000-02-04
US	50623404	R1NGR2Q45QZQY8	1573922145	932256819	What Is Atheism?	Books	5	40	46	N	N	A must read book for someone interested in atheism.	Mr. Krueger gives a powerful, easy to understand look into the arguments for atheism in this book. Yet, one of the reviewers here still blathered about the &quot;atheistic world view.&quot; Obviously, that person did not  read the book, and therefore his (her?) review is invalid. Krueger states  that the only thing that atheists are guarenteed to have in commom in the  abscence of a belief in a god. There is no world view attached to  non-belief in unicorns, nor is there one attached to non-belief in any  supreme being. It is unfortunate that someone who supposedly read this book  would write a review displaying nothing but abysmal ignorance about it.  What is typical of most reviews in this subject is that they merely reflect  people's religious views, or lack of them. Mine is no exception. It is  unfair for someone to state that they are not biased, we all are. But I was  not an atheist before I read this book, I was merely curious. I was an  atheist afterward, but I did not stop there. I continued to read about  deism, pantheism, and every other form of -ism under the sun. Unlike the  feeble-minded &quot;reader from New Jersey&quot;, I was not afraid of what  I would learn in reading new books and new material; much of which asserted  the existence of a god. I urge people not to be afraid of learning new  things; it is the only way to come to rational conclusions about the world  around you. I would tell the atheist to read Richard Swineburne's &quot;The  Existence of God.&quot; For the theist, I recommend this book. It is easy  to understand, to the point, and a great introduction to atheism.	2000-02-02
