US	50632148	RSE9X3I23T9NT	1400043395	813354201	Never Let Me Go	Books	4	6	6	N	N	More sad than shocking	When I talk with people about Never Let Me Go, we quickly drift into speculation about biological and technological dystopia; but when I think about the novel, I find I was most moved by the school narrative. Ishiguro reminds us that education is based on trust in the future. The petty betrayals and avowals of adolescence become heartbreaking once we realize that they can never come true. The angry teacher who struggles to rend the curtain, only to give up in frustration and sorrow, seems futilely heroic long before we know the full situation. The enforced ignorance that is part of the school's mission seems a disservice to the earnest young people who believe blindly in a future that doesn't exist. It's inevitable that we ask whether we're doing the same thing in our current system of education. Kathy knows the whole story, but she narrates the gradual dawning that leads to her current understanding. Although we don't see the end of her story, we dread the bleak future illuminated only by the memory of brighter days. As the reader slides into conversation about the limits of science and technology, a sense of gloom overcomes him. The sadness overwhelms my desire to talk much about the novel. As always, Ishiguro writes a spare, beautiful prose, but Never Let Me Go doesn't provide the disturbing rush of great science fiction. At the heart of the book are a love triangle and a misunderstood song. They're rendered with grace and beauty in this lovely, lonely book.	2005-09-08
US	50632148	R18UGHNIIIN4H1	0374165890	855338410	GraceLand: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	These songs of freedom	If you've come this far in your trip to Graceland, take the next step. Buy it. Read it. Abani's story will not resemble the well-made novel - the plot jumps, holes abound, and the focus shifts, but you will be mesmerized, horrified, and provoked into laughter and even delight. If you've read Chris's poetry, you'll be grateful that his gift for concise and intense language is given full play, but the novel form allows him more room to work with structure, memory, and juxtaposition. Recipes and kola ceremony flow through the narrative, reminding us of another time, a \\"childhood\\" of ancestral wisdom and motherlore that has been all but beaten out of modern Nigeria. The story's events occur between 1973 and 1983, over twenty years ago. It feels contemporary but also quite dated: there's no mention of AIDS, for instance, and the war in Sudan is only beginning. One fears that a contemporary version of the story would seem worse, but that's like saying Oliver Twist is out of date. The forms of human misery change, but pain is timeless. What Elvis undergoes in Graceland is horrible by any standards.  <br /> <br />The book is not just an exercise in suffering. Its high-life rhythm is almost danceable and the language begs to be sung or rapped with the right lilt and spin. The characters have fantastic names, exotic personalities, and metaphorical heft. The reader is always aware that Abani is working on several levels at once, exposing a real world, developing a complex character, cauterizing an enduring wound, mourning a lost past, and crafting a handbook for survival in the global village. The elements are familiar, the mix is new, important, and vital. Reading this book will expand your mind and delight your soul.   <br />	2005-08-24
US	50632148	R22A90HHBHX1A4	0142437298	303427184	Herzog (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	New old friends	This was my first Saul Bellow book. I tried others many years ago, and always bogged down, but once I got through the first forty pages of Herzog, I was hooked. Being older was helpful - Herzog's erudition and neurosis weren't too threatening - and the distance of 40 years provided enough historical baffling to make me uncritical about whether Saul was riding the zeitgeist or not. I found Moses Herzog endearing and inspiring, although I'm not sure I'd want to spend much time with him or to be his friend. The tension between his philosophical knowledge and his personal cluelessness was amusing, not just because his wisdom didn't save him but because his willingness to focus on the personal was redemptive. There is great value in simply thinking, in letting your mind become caught up in abstract systems, in testing overarching concepts of meaning in the sexual-emotional furnace. Herzog is full of questions, doubts, prejudices, and failure, but he doesn't let that prevent him from growing into a better flawed person. The smug confidence of his many antagonists, whether his ex-wife, her lover, his psychiatrist, or any of his other comforters, makes Job seem blessed with good friends; Herzog's insecurity and his unfinished personality-in-process emerge as virtues in a world of assured monsters. Finally, he is trying to be a good man, to open his heart, to use his bourgeois suffering to become more loving. He is so successful that his goodness even overlaps his narrow self and extends to some of his compatriots and enemies. The reader is left pondering the mysterious dynamics of the human family and the unpredictability of the individual heart, stretched out on a couch like Herzog, thinking about life with rue and hope. In the days since reading Bellow's novel, I've become increasingly fond of his protagonist and his story. I feel like someone who looks back on a weekend with an old friend in the Berkshires with a glow of happiness and a sigh of relief.	2005-08-22
US	50632148	R1PLIPHUYBII5N	0743250419	372341668	The Master: A Novel	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Better than a biography	I've always been fascinated by Henry James, from his endless sentences and his emotionally constipated characters to his famous family and sexual ambiguity. Despite the tortuous prose, each paragraph of his stories and novels contains unsounded depths of meaning and restraint. You keep wanting his characters to come out of whichever closet imprisons them, but you also feel that life lived within sad boundaries can be graceful, beautiful, and the best possible compromise with forces too great for ordinary defiance or rebellion. Streams of puritanical exceptionalism and continental cynicism create a turbid river in James's novels, and the reader is often borne along with characters who are powerless to fight the current. For all his coolness and distance, James always seems implicated in his work, present even in the act of effacing himself. This has led many of us to biographers and critics like Edel, Lewis, Novick, Menand, and Bell in search of the real Henry, Alice, William, and Henry, Sr. I've never been disappointed by Jamesiana, perhaps because one always comes back to those fascinating sentences and intriguing lacunae, but I've always found myself preferring the original to the study.  <br /> <br />Until Colm Toibin came along. Because The Master is a novel, the author enters the heart by means of feeling instead of psychology. We cringe, withdraw, soothe, bristle, and hurt along with the protagonist. We experience those forces that box, coax, and channel the master's emotions into works of art, which stand luminously apart from him yet also seem written in his very blood. I read two James short stories while reading The Master, but they didn't supplant the enchantment and fascination of Toibin's novel, which stands as a worthy companion to James's oeuvre, taking its place with those eternal works of mystery, sorrow, and art. The prose is polished, beautiful, and a little less convoluted than even early James. One finishes the book with a deep appreciation forthe way in which art like James's requires sacrifice. The pleasures of reading and writing are rendered with love and dignity, but one is always made aware that they come at great personal cost. I don't know what it cost Toibin to produce such a masterful work, but this reader is very grateful for it.  <br />	2005-08-22
US	50632148	R2PBPW416NUX0M	0375422765	253560182	War Trash	Books	4	5	6	N	N	It only looks like trash	The most surprising thing about this award-winning novel is the flat style. It reads like a novel in a literal translation, which is appropriate to the filtered consciousness of the narrator. I never felt entirely caught up in the narrator's personal drama because his language and behavior didn't warrant my extra help or feeling. I did, however, feel trapped by his many layers of incarceration, whether in Communist China, the army, the shifting prison alliances, or his doomed relationship with Julan. The world of War Trash was oppressively real and contemporary. From beginning to end I marked sections of the book that revealed old things more clearly. The narrator's active engagement with abstract ideas like community, solidarity, independence, loyalty, discipline, and truth was exciting. In some ways this was more a novel of ideas than action, and yet it had plenty of realistic details to satisfy the need for verisimilitude. I was particularly pleased at the lack of ideological bias - the narrator found plenty to admire and abhor in both communism and capitalism. If, in the end, he opts for independence and freedom, it's hard to deplore while sitting in my easy chair reading his solitary words in my comfortable home. In a world where too many people blindly sacrifice themselves for a cause, Ha Jin brings welcome skepticism to participation in totalitarian systems. We need more people like Yu Yuan, hardy survivors with a sense of humanity, humor, and a desire to clearly translate what others are saying. I finished the novel inspired and educated, but also a little weary because the prose never lifted off the page and flew. That may well have been the point, but I turned immediately to poetry to clear my palate.	2005-08-17
US	50632148	R21B16ZK6IMRQ4	080578103X	513204007	Don Quixote: The Quest for Modern Fiction (Twayne's Masterwork Studies)	Books	5	24	27	N	N	A perfect pony for thin nights	I'm a fan of the Twayne's series of studies, which offer an undergraduate course in about 100 pages. Johnson's little book on Don Quixote is one of the best. It's much better than either the Nabokov book or the studies in the Norton edition, all of which are chatty and interesting but not very helpful in coming to terms with Cervantes' long, often boring, brilliant novel. Johnson provides enough dollops of literary theory, history, biography, culture, and critical exegesis for the reader to really start to work independently. What I liked most was his final reading of Quixote as a man fleeing his incestuous desire for his niece, madly projecting and fantasizing to relieve the pressure. His description of a world where Moors and Jews lived secret lives while passing as Christians, ne'er-do-well aristocrats like Quijano suffered lives of quiet desperation, and encounters with the Other in the New World radically altered Western consciousness at the very time that print brought people into closer communion, provided grist for many hours of thought and appreciation. The sections on reader-response and literary theory were a bit more conventional, but they were clear and compelling nevertheless. If you choose one pony while mounting Rocinante, this is the one to ride.	2005-08-17
US	50632148	R3OIO73BR4ZF3U	0140139419	837531264	Joe Hill	Books	2	12	26	N	N	Covering an idol with clay	<br /> <br />If you want to know about Joe Hill, this is not the book for you. Readers curious about Stegner's career might be interested in this early effort, but after this first impression, I have little curiosity about the author's later efforts, despite his reputation as a master teacher. Writing about a legend is difficult because the temptation to reduce the Myth to human terms is great. In the process of putting feet of clay on the immortal Joe Hill, Stegner creates a hoodlum-poet, an angry, alienated legal alien with a father complex, a stiff upper lip, and a penchant for violence. The occasional descriptions of his songwriting seem facile and psychological. One senses the author's precious regard for his own words and images struggling with his need to be macho and tough-minded. I couldn't help but feel that Joe Hill was being cut down to make room for Wallace Stegner, the real artist. As for the revolutionary, the Wobbly, the visionary, the author makes that persona seem like so much hype and rhetoric. There's a nice description of a labor camp full of suffering and the potential for organization, but most of the labor scenes are sprinkled with so much violence that one gets little sense of the idealistic nature of the enterprise. Anyone interested in the truth needs to see both sides of human behavior, but Stegner's penchant for the small, trivial, and mean outweighs any vision of the lasting and good, despite his creation of a doubting minister. We have a few opportunities to see Joe at his best in this novel, but those moments are consistently undercut by awareness that his words will be memorialized by self-aggrandizing union leaders and deluded idealists. After over one hundred pages about his trial and death, the reader is sick of Stegner's malaise and bad spirits. If you want to know Joe Hill, sing his songs.  <br />	2005-08-15
US	50632148	R3KU06TJ5DI1MY	0374166447	82302003	The Great Fire: A Novel	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Slow Burner	I haven't read Ms. Hazzard's other books, but I would imagine this one is more muted than The Transit of Venus. It's still quite lovely, despite the fact that my heart didn't race while reading it. Recovering from the shock of World War II was clearly a slow and numb process: I loved having Aldred Leith as my reconstructionist and guide. I was never in doubt about his goodness, humanity, or ability to love again. I did have my doubts about the propriety of his affair with Helen, mainly because of her youth, but her peculiar needs, his deep respect and restraint, and the exigencies of the era finally won me over. The secondary plots and characters were vividly observed, economically narrated, and thematically rich, but two weeks later, I mainly remember Aldred and Helen. The book felt deeply personal, as if Shirley Hazzard's own experiences of love were being combined and transmuted in this fiction. I felt as if I were sitting with a person of great wisdom, following the movements of her heart and mind with exquisite accuracy. The novel was full of beautiful sentences and shimmering observations. I read slowly, savoring the language and experience, knowing that this book had been composed with great care and discretion. The book's happy ending provided particular delight, because it was earned through the moral behavior of the characters and the patience, diligence, and craft of this master writer.  <br />	2005-08-15
US	50632148	R2GFIA3SQGKEE2	1559361379	463379344	A Dybbuk: and Other Tales of the Supernatural	Books	5	2	2	N	N	THE dybbuk	This is THE version of the play to read. I've tried to read several other translations, and this is the first time I've made it all the way through, thanks to Kushner's adaptation, which is lean and poetic. At no point did I space out because I didn't understand the tradition or the arcana. Chonen's dabbling in Kabbalah feels timely and even appropriate given the rapidly changing world in which he lives. The horrors of the twentieth century are knocking on the doors of the Jews of Brinnitz and Mirapol, Poland is heading over the brink, and an old way of life is doomed not just by historical forces but by the wavering faith of its leaders. Against the lukewarm spirit of the rabbis and community leaders stand the love of Chonen and Leah and the spiritual betrothal which guides them. Condemned to live in two worlds, they take the ultimate step beyond life into the darkness where opposites not only unite, but fuse in a soul-marriage. The mystical rapture they achieve makes the practical, ethical religion of the elders seem faint and puny, but they must die to the world to achieve their hearts' desire. This is a romantic form of tragedy that's stirring to the soul but also troubling for those of us who have opted for life. In classic tragedy, the protagonist walks on, wounded but wiser; with this play, the reader is the tragic hero. You leave this play with the sense of having seen something long hidden and obscured. I don't want what Leah and Chonen found, but I want to keep the candle of their love alight in my soul as I try to manage the treacherous currents of reality. Reading this play is like going to the crossroads with Robert Johnson -- it's important to see it, to know it, and to dance there, but you must finally choose your own road and walk into your own life to really play the blues.	2005-07-27
US	50632148	R5HTE266MC2CN	0385511809	740331338	Saturday: A novel	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Henry James in modern dress	The compression of this novel is thrilling: it all takes place on the Saturday of the big anti-war rally in February preceding the Iraq War in April. The protagonist doesn't attend the rally -- he drives around it -- but the anxieties of our current era shimmer from beginning to end. His nuanced response to the war, informed primarily by his friendship with a survivor of Saddam's torture regime, keeps the reader (and his daughter) wondering if he will ever stop to anticipate the horrors to come. This emotional precipice is McEwan's home ground, and the plot that arises from it keeps the reader moving quickly from one event to the other. Danger, violence, tension, discovery, courage, redemption and all the rest play their respective roles in this beautiful novel, but what matters most is the author's ability to inhabit Perowne's consciousness, the twists and turns of vanity, humility, mortality, and honesty. At one point he talks about being more like William James than his brother, but the novel felt more like Henry to me. The plot matters in the context of the reading experience, but ultimately it's touching someone else that really alters the reader. In the book's great set piece a murderer's course is altered by a reading of \\"Dover Beach,\\" and as unlikely as that may seem, it cut to the core for me. From the first lines I \\"recognized\\" the poem, but it emerged afresh from the dramatic situation. I could feel Arnold's startling power to speak the truth over time, to compose words with such poetry that they remake the world. If the characters were changed, heartened, so was the reader, who lives in the same emotionally charged world as the people inhabiting the book. The knife is at all of our throats. Ultimately, \\"Saturday\\" works the same kind of magic as \\"Dover Beach\\" : whether Henry Perowne joins the peace movement or not, we know that his humanity, his ability to enter the brains and souls of others will stand us all in good stead. In this uncertain world, we need greater appreciation of the extent of our untapped abilities and the limit of our knowledge. For all of the startling, baffling, and oddly comforting medical jargon that McEwan uses when Perowne is operating in his role as neurosurgeon, we never feel shut out from the workings of his heart and conscience.  <br /> <br />In some ways this is my favorite McEwan novel, but I say that each time I finish one of them, so it's probably not too useful. It's so contemporary that it's worth reading to understand the present moment, but I suspect that readers 100 years from now will find it just as valuable as we find, say, Henry James.	2005-07-27
US	50632148	R1ZJ9APUWF9K3Z	0375420568	325012059	Master of the Crossroads	Books	5	6	7	N	N	As Magnificent as All Souls' Rising, and that's saying a lot	I'm in the middle of the trilogy here, so I don't want to waste too much time writing about the unfinished work, but after 750 pages, let me note that I'm still spellbound by Bell's work. I love the way the title informs the whole work: at each crossroads (and there are many) I marvel at Toussaint's vision. Sometimes he slips out of his carriage or off the road at just the right time to avoid ambush or attack, more often than not in a kind of trance. The crossroads also seems like the meeting of two worlds, whether the spiritual and carnal, the Christian and Vodoun, or European and African. Riau and even Doctor Hebert have some mastery of those crossroads, as do some of the minor characters like Claudine and Moustique. I love the religious syncretism of this novel -- it's at once modern and ancient. Haiti is such a melting pot of culture, race, history, and belief that it's no wonder the stew is still bubbling. Even in poverty and despair, something so rich, so deeply, darkly true is being created that this reader feels compelled to journey there to taste it for himself.  <br /> <br />The violence and politics continue to shock and delight. I particularly loved the story of Choufleur in this novel -- the kind of character you love to hate -- and the complex portrayal of Elise's new husband, Toquet. As for the many developments in the life of the characters -- births, deaths, victories, defeats, etc. -- one reads them passionately, but after 1500 pages they are threads in a tapestry that's still a work in progress. I'd love to discuss them with others, but I'm moving on.  <br /> <br />In the meantime, there are the pleasures of Bell's trilogy to savor and enjoy. His writing is so confident, his grasp of the wide sweep of narrative and history so embracing, and his sense of the eternal so inspiring that I eagerly plunge on to The Stone that the Builders Refused.	2005-07-27
US	50632148	R2V3IHHB1O4QYV	1400043662	478155730	Kafka on the Shore A novel	Books	5	103	121	N	N	To boldly go	Reading Murakami is a bit like going into therapy. The images and dreams can seem familiar and identifiable to others, but they are also full of personal meaning. Each book tightens the web of associations and memories for Murakami readers; as result they end up talking about other books in order to understand the novel at hand. (This is true with other writers as well, of course, but Murakami intentionally ventures into the dark psychological realm.) I loved this novel, and found it a very satisfying extension and refinement of his work, particularly Hard-Boiled Wonderland, Wind-Up Bird, and Dance, Dance, Dance. I particularly enjoyed the ending, the writer's usual area of weakness. But the book doesn't depend on the ending -- anywhere you enter, there are mental puzzles and verbal delights galore.  <br /> <br />I dreamt more than usual while reading this book. Murakami sends me deep into myself, where I examine those feelings and forces that churn and charge forward, driving me to express my true self and to take control of my own life. As with some of the other books, I had the feeling that I was becoming more fully myself while I followed the developing situation. Much of the novel exists between two worlds, which resonated deeply with me because of the death of my mother six months ago and my heightened awareness of her lingering presence. I swam everyday when I was reading \\"Kafka on the Shore,\\" and being in water was an ideal medium for coming to terms with Kafka's progress through the labyrinth of familial obligation, anger, and self-knowledge. I read Tony Kushner's \\"A Dybbuk\\" while floating in the pool one afternoon -- a play in which a \\"living soul\\" inhabits the body of his beloved. The rabbi entrusted with her exorcism fails and love triumphs in a very uneasy world: it felt like I was reading a gloss on \\"Kafka.\\" I had just finished a surf novel, \\"Tijuana Straits,\\" before I started this one, and I kept hearing echoes from that work (by Kem Nunn) echoed as well as sections of Richard Linklatter's first film, \\"Slacker.\\" This is the process many go through reading Murakami -- all sorts of elements come to more vivid life and stick to the psychological fly-paper.  <br /> <br />Like most Murakami novels, this felt improvised, as if he weren't sure where he was headed, but the prose was more polished and the story more buffed than the early novels. It seemed more like \\"East of the Sun\\" or the short stories, which is just fine by me. The national amnesia about the horrors of World War II was not explored as deeply as in Wind-Up Bird, but it was suggested enough to lead the reader to reconsider in light of current events in China and Japan. Among other things, Murakami is working things out in real time -- our time; as concerned as he is with the eternal, he is also writing quickly enough to let the present flicker through his words.  <br /> <br />There are surprises, recollections, jokes, and profundities aplenty. This seems an excellent introduction to the world of Haruki Murakami as well as a step forward into the unknown that is his particular turf.	2005-07-27
US	50632148	R338ZQZXCLIWUF	0684843056	633269711	Tijuana Straits: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A surf masterwork	What a fantastic book! I don't want to give away the surprises of the novel, so I'll keep my comments brief, but I loved every page. Fahey and Magdalena make an inspiring couple at the heart of the book. Kem Nunn is a master of mystery, violence, cultural confusion, ecology, and everything else he touches. The physical and cultural landscape is rendered so vividly that I drove to the straits myself just to verify what I knew must be true. (The photos at the beginning of this page are worth perusing.) Over and above the many delights of plot, culture, politics, and literature, though, is Nunn's enduring love of surfing. He's a hell of the writer on the ground, but he's unbeatable in the waves. The novel's climax is one of the most eloquent, thrilling rides I've ever taken. Thanks, Kem Nunn, for providing an unforgettable experience for hodads like me.	2005-07-13
US	50632148	R2KNQKUTZYT0NF	0375719202	462911655	Appointment in Samarra: A Novel	Books	5	11	18	N	N	A sordid little classic	I picked up Appointment in Samarra hoping to find some connection with the war in Iraq or with Somerset Maugham's very short story of the same name. Death comes to us all, I guess, is the common theme, but I was a bit disappointed that there was not much overt political or literary connection. The story was compelling even though it was mainly a ride down the spiral into Julian's (and his society's) oblivion. You knew what was coming by the end of the second or third chapter -- it was inevitable that this would end badly. I hated Julian English but I also felt sympathy for the spoiled, bratty \\"rebel.\\" I felt bad that he never got to explore his latent homosexuality, but given the sordid approach he took to life, I didn't regret the abasement that would have accompanied such exploration. Everything he touched turned to some sort of ordure, but I laughed at several drunken scenes and generally enjoyed his bad behavior. O'Hara's description of his wife Caroline in chapter 6 was the best part of the book. He knows the people of this era very well and encapsulates their tragedy as effectively as Fitzgerald ever did. The ending of the book was a bit puzzling, especially the \\"introduction\\" of a (not entirely) new character in the last chapter, but I enjoyed having to review the book to figure out who was who. The \\"triumph\\" of Lute in the end of the book gave me much less pleasure than I might have expected, perhaps because he seems less a good guy by the end.  <br /> <br />I'm amazed I only just discovered this book since it tells the kind of truth about the American tradition that professors and canonizers usually love. Perhaps O'Hara was too popular in his lifetime to earn lasting praise. Anyway, it's well worth reading now, even though the book is depressing and sort of sordid. We haven't grown much since the days of Julian and his ilk, and prose this exciting still roils the blood. The author does some \\"experimenting\\" with free association and dreams that might feel excessive, but you can feel his love of language. It's easy to respond to the passion beneath the purple prose.	2005-07-13
US	50632148	R3D492A8NRY1L4	0882862650	332622114	Joe Hill: The IWW & The Making Of A Revolutionary Working Class Counterculture	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A good introduction to Hill and Rosemont	I bought this book researching Joe Hill, who eludes Rosemont as effectively as he does everyone else. The material he finds about the Wobbly bard could be effectively contained in a monograph, but once you accept that, this is a delightful work, full of illustrations, pleas for submissions of information, and endless tidbits about Franklin Rosemont, his imagination, research, and beliefs. He's an indefatigable reader, a passionate latter-day Wobbly, and a treasure trove of anecdote and speculation. Reading the book was something akin to proofreading a friend's manuscript: you end up trying to be supportive even as you acknowledge a kind of looseness -- after all it's HIS book, not yours. Joe Hill is rife with cuttable sections -- after the second attack on Wallace Stegner, the reader's eyes glaze over -- but the prose style and intellectual speculation are loose enough to encourage judicious skimming. Joe Hill's anachronistic relationships to such things as ecology and Beatnik poetry are figments of Rosemont's imagination more than subjects for serious inquiry, but they're the kind of things that one thinks about while deciding whether to get out of bed in the morning or while driving to work with U. Utah Phillips playing in the background. My own research into Hill's life and work was helped immeasurable by Rosemont's trailblazing in the field -- his bibliography alone is worth the cost of the book. In the process of reading this book, I feel like I made a new friend, even if it wasn't Joe Hill. Read this book by all means.	2005-07-13
US	50632148	R1L8UHLCI5MLDR	0143034901	734819982	The Shadow of the Wind	Books	2	7	12	N	N	The shadow of the hype	With so many rave reviews out there, Zafon doesn't stand a chance. This book was an enjoyable distraction, but I read most of it the way I read articles in People Magazine, with my ears tuned more to the outside world than the inner world of the novel. Full of predictable surprises and the creaking door of a \\"scary\\" plot, Zafon's novel is drizzled lightly with metafictional hocus pocus about forgotten books and labyrinthine libraries. While the nods to Borges, Eco, Marquez, and Dickens made me buy and read the book, they ultimately made me long for the originals. They are unforgettable: this book, alas, will disappear in the recesses of my memory almost as quickly as my second (and every other) novel by Steven King.	2005-07-13
US	50632148	R2PF68DMKTRKWB	1400041147	873250864	The Dew Breaker	Books	5	15	17	N	N	a terrible beauty	I feel bad using a word like \\"beautiful\\" to describe a book in which torture figures so prominently, but Danticat is a fantastic writer whose control of the language is gorgeous. There's nothing flashy or self-congratulatory about her spare descriptions and images - it's just perfect. Every so often an angel will rise from a dream or a fragrance will be picked up from a handkerchief -- and you're transported. It's like drinking coffee with a friend and then just glancing out the window to discover that you're in a Haitian valley or a new section of Brooklyn. The world seems wonderful in that moment, but even then you know that surprises can be brutal as well as brilliant. Her book is full of surprises, yet it also moves inevitably to the title story in the end. In bits and pieces we learn more about the central mystery, moving into the heart by indirection, overhearing the stories of neighbors, tenants, and relatives, picking up the unexamined shards of truth and sussing out the gossip. The notes of redemption surface briefly in the din of denial, anger flashes through sentimental projection and idealism, and a portrait of Haiti emerges, soaked in blood, guilt, vision, sorrow, and hope. The diaspora of which most of the characters are a part seems a blessing because the charnel house from which they come echoes with the cries of the tortured, the terrified, the tyrants. Haiti is the dark jewel of our hemisphere, the island of hope and despair, beauty and poverty, love and torture. With poetic compression and heartbreaking compassion, Edwidge Danticat brings us face to face with mystery, grief, and life. Like the girl on the cover, the reader contemplates a lake of sorrow, loss, and guilt; you emerge from this book refreshed but wrinkled with immersion.	2004-08-20
US	50632148	R2Q499CR2S0W11	0142003808	28976631	Drop City	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Altamont Nation	I've read several books by Boyle, so Drop City seemed like familiar territory. He creates beautiful losers - especially guys - who gain wisdom even as they take their lumps, and this book has plenty of colorful characters who do just that. What made this one, special, though were the two women at the heart of the story - Star and Pamela. Their unexpected friendship, their evolving clarity about the important things in life, their willingness to do the hard work and make something beautiful from it allow them to transcend the role of \\"chick\\" that too many of the other girls assume. The other women generally also have personalities, but they are flattened by the book's sexual politics. The men don't fare any better - most of them are flat characters with the exception of the four main ones. As a response to the 60's, Drop City left me in a bit of a quandary. Boyle shows us the sexist and racist hypocrisy that the hippie ethic never entirely obscured and he traces the hankerings for getting back to the land to the vanishing end point. At the end, most everything goes bust when the money runs out and the bad moon rises - this feels right for the hippie dreams of the late 60's - but because Boyle fails to include characters who genuinely do work for a better world, the portrait seems incomplete. The Woodstock vision may have been fleeting, but few people actually believed that dreams would come true, even then. We knew it would require blood, failure, and shame to achieve the revolution. Everyone, from the stoned hippie on the streets of the Haight to the SDS member on the barricades, could see how filthy, conniving, and hard the world actually was. Many of us were studying the dirt with the same fascination we devoted to rainbows. By having his most admirable characters retreat into housekeeping and survivalism, Boyle leaves me wanting more. What about those who took the dream of brotherhood and community and ran with it? It wasn't all about greed and self-preservation.In the end, the book feels sort of cynical and conservative, which is not unusual with Boyle. At the end of Tortilla Curtain, for instance, the flawed Mexican saves the flawed gringo, but we never see them make anything of it. Boyle is adept at revealing lies and compromises, but I long for a social vision that includes a successful community.	2004-08-18
US	50632148	RYJ9HPY4U8ZKX	0743243307	864788878	Brick Lane: A Novel	Books	3	3	8	N	N	Are the women on the cover mannequins?	I picked up this book expecting another White Teeth, and I was initially disappointed that Monica Ali's story was less cross-cultural and loose-limbed. But soon enough, I found myself intrigued by Nazneen, frustrated by her hapless husband, and eager to see things come to a head. Some things just didn't pan out - the letters from Bangladesh, for instance, though interesting in their own right and a valid counterpoint to events in England, never became essential until the very end. Significant events like Amma's death were buried beneath the detritus of Nazneen's shadow life until late in the novel; as result the last quarter of the book felt like a new story about a familiar character. I would have liked a smoother ramp to the book's exciting conclusion, but complaining about that feels a bit like criticizing life for its odd rhythm. Brick Alley has a natural pace and form that reflect experience more than artifice. In the end, I cheered for Nazneen, her daughters, and her sisters who escape the heavy hands of patriarchy and self-destruction. In some ways this book of liberation reminds me of The Color Purple, but I didn't delight in Ali's voice the way I did in Walker's. That may be simply a cultural difference or an aesthetic choice, but the selections from Tagore, although sententiously recited by Chanu, the husband, ring with a lyricism that was too often missing in the rest of the novel. I enjoyed hanging out on Brick Lane, sampling its curry and checking out the fashions, but in the end I felt like I was seeing a faade more than the real thing.	2004-08-18
US	50632148	R3GJLQJNX1QL8B	0312282990	383312801	The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Wonderful escape!	I avoided this book for several years. I'm not sure why. I liked Wonder Boys, I love comics, and I'm not averse to books that make critics rave. I think I was afraid that it wouldn't be as good as a great comic book like Watchmen or Maus, that it would somehow sell short the grandeur of comic vision for some cheap jokes and broad strokes. Then I saw Spiderman II, to which Chabon made some contributions, and got the feeling that he must have helped with Peter Parker's ambivalence, which is my main reason for loving Spidey. So I finally took the book off the shelf and started reading. It opens with an epigraph from Nathaniel Hawthorne's mysterious short story, \\"Wakefield.\\" In fact, the author takes one phrase, \\"wonderful escape,\\" from the ten-page tale about a guy who leaves his normal life, wife, and home and moves secretly to an apartment on the next block, where he lives anonymously for twenty years. And so, before we even begin the saga of Kavalier and Clay, we know we have a tale of the counterlife, or tales within tales of counterlives. Next surprise - it's also a story about The Golem of Prague and the whole idea of humans bringing clay to life. It's a story about Houdini, about magic, about Jews in Europe and Jews in the States, about surrealism, about homosexuality, about prudery and Puritanism. And Chabon's characters do come to life - we care about them and their relationships and the consequences of denial, acceptance, escape, and forgiveness. It all climaxed for me in a scene where a sleeping 12-year old boy is taken from the car and tucked into bed by his parents. It's so tender you can smell the sleep on his breath and feel his precious, changing body as it eases into sleep under the covers, but mainly you're there watching with the wonder of a parent who knows this is \\"his\\" child and yet sees him as quintessentially other as well. The miracle of our closeness and distance is all there. This same \\"Wonder!\\" is ever-present in Chabon's wonder-book, but this is the scene that brought me to tears. I want to urge you to read the book and not delay it the way I did, but who's to say what the right time for reading something actually is. If you're not related to the book in some way - a friend of Chabon's, an employee of Picador, a student (like mine) who has been assigned to read it - you can take your sweet time and wait for the book or the world to tell you when. Either way, delight - and wonder - are in store.	2004-08-18
US	50632148	R2TAJ3FCC5MD39	0312420277	278415393	The Feast of the Goat: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A goat's head soup, but not the main course	This is the best Vargas Llosa book I've read (I've tried two others.) The material is rich and the storytelling intense. Trujillo was a despicable dictator, and Vargas Llosa has done his research well enough to tell a seemingly honest, brutal story. He creates several narratives in different voices, fracturing our perception enough to provide a whole that must be assembled by the observer. Putting it together feels like real life. The betrayals, compromises, lies, and longing are vividly rendered - one finishes reading with a sort of grimy feeling, desiring a cool shower to wipe away the grime and heat of the night's adventures. Urania's narrative, the heart of the book, is compelling, but she is necessarily a cold character. We vicariously experience her rage and helplessness, but we feel awful doing so. I often sighed deeply while reading her story - it was just so frustrating. In the end, the tale is disempowering, because it's so hard to imagine a good way to get rid of an awful situation like this. I was more than a little paranoid about our North American drift toward fascism while reading this novel. Tinhorn dictators like Trujillo are paid for and trained right here in our country, home of the School of the Americas, so it would be crazy to think that it couldn't happen here. There are ways to avoid that, but this book doesn't really explore them because the wheels were already in motion long before we entered the story. I read the novel with baited breath, but ultimately I felt that I was being entertained more than educated or prepared. That's not really the author's fault, but he left me wanting a different book, one with more heroism or at least with a way out. Like the viewer of a good action film, I put the experience behind me with a \\"phew\\" and a slightly queasy stomach. I had to go elsewhere to replenish my strength.	2004-08-12
US	50632148	RLO1HE8GJC13Z	0140259473	560223056	All Souls' Rising	Books	5	47	50	N	N	Arise and Weep	This is the kind of book that can make you seem obsessed. Once you enter Bell's world, you're disturbed, excited, and depressed, but you can't stop talking about the book you're in. It's like having a secret that's too heavy to really divulge, but you keep alluding to parts of it, as if you were talking in code. People look at you like you're sort of cracked, but generally they think it will pass. The blood-soaked history of Haiti is cause for despair, but the revolutionary spirit of the 1790's makes you hope in spite of what you know. Toussaint is one of the great heroes of all time, and Bell makes him both human and epic. In this book, you don't develop much emotional connection to him -- that's the province of more fictional characters like Doctor Hebert and Riau -- but you care immensely about his success as a leader. You want him to be as great, as visionary, as Martin Luther King, but he belongs to a different era, a violent one. The backdrop of the French Revolution, with its mixture of rights and terror, is essential to the drama of All Souls' Rising, and most readers will need to read the appendix several times to stay abreast of royalists, Jacobins, and emissaries from the Mother Country. Some knowledge of American history might help --Jefferson, for instance, opposed the Haitian slave revolt because he feared something similar in the US which would deprive him of slaves plus the boost he got from the 3/5 compromise which gave white planters more votes, while Adams and Pickering favored emancipation and liberation -- but you can follow the essential plot without historical annotation. It's the kind of gravy that lifts the book to a higher level, but readers looking for love, betrayal, courage, devotion, cruelty, sex, and perverse logic will be sated. Contemporary maps won't help with many of the locations, but Bell has a map in the second volume of the trilogy, Master of the Crossroads, that helped me get a sense of place. The themes and the style of the book are managed with power and grace. Bell's a hell of a writer, and I believed each of the voices in the narrative. Big books like this sweep you up and carry you away, but this book sweeps the reader into a present time of continuous revolution in Haiti, slaughter in Sudan, disease and unending horror in much of Africa, war in Iraq and Afghanistan, etc. The blood drama of Bell's Haiti gives us a red filter for understanding our own time. At the end of the book, I'm thrilled by the revolutionary possibilities, depressed by the inevitable destruction and failure, and grateful for every moment of compassion and kindness however small. I can't wait to read the next volume.	2004-08-04
US	50632148	RSGPZEFE9SV8G	0375506160	802201377	Mountains Beyond Mountains: Healing the World: The Quest of Dr. Paul Farmer	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Can I Still Get Into Medical School?	This is the kind of book that makes you want to change your life. Paul Farmer is an inspiration, a sort of secular saint. His devotion to others is incredible, his wisdom awesome, and his consistent ethic of service heroic, but it all seems humanly possible as well. As result, you want to go out and volunteer. If I were younger, I'd seriously consider medical school -- as it is Kidder's book provides strength for the journey I'm already on. Farmer's example has been in my heart ever since I read the book a month ago. I feel better for knowing him -- his example makes it easier to serve others without resentment and to listen to them with eagerness and interest. Not only is Farmer an extraordinary human being, but even his story makes us better too. I recommend this to everyone, young and old. This is what life is all about.	2004-08-04
US	50632148	R31BM09OCCSGHJ	0805073396	564190816	What's the Matter with Kansas? How Conservatives Won the Heart of America	Books	3	23	47	N	N	Processed, not organic, food for thought	The real problem with buying the book is that Frank has written most of his best ideas in articles or said them in interviews already. It's fun to discover how radical Kansans were 100 years ago and disheartening to see how similar the destruction of Kansas is to the ruin of family farms and urban life in the rest of the country. Frank's thesis that the right wing has taken cultural rage and converted it into votes despite the fact that Republican policies impoverish the very people who vote for them is important to understand. People looking for common ground do well to listen to the voices of Kansas and to consider ways to reach these voters at the place where values are formed. His remarks on authenticity early in the book ring particularly true. Frank's style is light and almost glib, but he raises questions worth answering. This would be good for a book club of people who are interested in reaching out to people who don't share their liberal point of view. But know that your own ideas will overtake Frank's within a chapter or two.	2004-07-26
US	50632148	RXE0980JKL2PQ	0060736704	717178025	Bush on the Couch: Inside the Mind of the President	Books	4	41	50	N	N	Fun and games in the armchair	OK. Armchair psychology is an irresponsible form of intellectual play in many circles, but c'mon, we all do it. Dubya is one of the prime targets of ridicule and two-bit analysis in my circles, and Dr. Frank is welcome to add his two cents anytime. I laughed at the Melanie Klein sections, not because they were necessarily inaccurate (I don't know enough to judge) but just because they seemed like an attempt to give validity to what might otherwise be written off as a casual interpretation of the president's disturbing behavior. I enjoyed the book and discovered things that explained some of the curious anomalies of our worst president. Frank's snap diagnoses make a lot of sense -- Bush's ADD, for instance, or his rage about the way Barb dealt with the death of his sister. The drinking, the miraculous recovery without the help of AA, the midlife conversion experience -- these open ends offer plenty of reason to worry, and Frank looks at them reasonably. I've often wondered whether W was stoned on something -- not just his reasoning but his control over facial muscles sometimes seems loopy and loose, like someone who's medicated. Frank makes me think more than ever that more is going on inside the President's body than we know. I never really believed the pretzel story. If you love the man from Crawford, this is definitely not the book for you. But if you're trying to figure out what went wrong to produce the mess that figureheads our stolen government, then this might give you pleasure.	2004-07-26
US	50632148	R229ZLV8TJ73V6	0374199698	298109609	Middlesex: A Novel	Books	4	0	1	N	N	a great book for boys, girls, or both	I'll admit that the beginning of this book was a bit slow. After being hyped about the fact that the book was about a hermaphrodite, i felt anxious when i found myself reading hundreds of pages of background.  The background, however, was just as intriguing and unfamiliar as the storyline i expected because it was largely focused around the incestuous relations of Cal's (the hermaphrodite) parents and grandparents.  <br />Eugenides writes with an element of eloquence despite the occult and sometimes vulgar nature of the subject.  The content may be too advanced for little kids but the writing can be appreciated by all - it's clear, it's well thought out, and it captivates the reader's attention - too bad i can't say it's concise.<br />The book may look daunting but once you pick it up and plow through the first hundred pages -- you won't want to put it down.  The writing is just as interesting as the subject -- read it!	2003-08-18
US	50632148	R17109CVHOYH2F	0385509456	459979615	The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Living with emotional chaos	It's worth reading this book to spend time in Christopher's head. Apsberger's Syndrome provides a patina of emotional coolness that is constantly tested by circumstance. The tension between the two provides enough &quot;suspense&quot; to hold the reader's interest for the brief length of the book. The mystery at the heart of Haddon's wonderful novel is not a whodunit -- that one is pretty obvious long before it's solved at the book's midpoint. What sustain the reader are bigger mysteries: What is love? Who am I? How can I be safe? Christopher's wiring may be unconventional, but his observations are clear and his needs are so familiar that one reads in hope of understanding more about what life is. At the very least, I know more about the inner life of this mysterious boy. I hope it will help me relate to other people with more sensitivity and clearer perception. Since reading it, I've had several encounters where thinking of the other as Christopher has enabled me to express myself more clearly and directly. As a reader, I was merely bemused by his preference for some patterns and his rejection of others. It seemed perfectly natural. Applying that same coolness to people I love is much more difficult, but I'm convinced that it's a good idea. For two hours or so, I was a more compassionate person thanks to Mark Haddon. It's an experience I recommend.	2003-07-18
US	50632148	R2N369FSQ76F9L	0375504834	316489894	Austerlitz	Books	5	18	21	N	N	How do squirrels know where they've buried their horde?	Austerlitz is a negative, an undeveloped film of memory swished around in the fluid of the reader's imagination, from which emerge images at once clear and indistinct. Readers familiar with Sebald's work will recognize ideas and techniques in the first part of this book - the seemingly random historical associations, the beautifully dense and allusive sentence structures, the haunting photos that poetically omit more than they include - but as the narrative progresses, shadows of the Nazi holocaust take form and lead us deeper into the inferno. The emotional distance and intellectual reluctance start to make sense - they not only characterize the narrator, but they enhance our sense of his human frailty. I kept wondering what kind of book this was - a memoir, a thinly veiled confession, or a fiction of remarkable power? The patterns and connections suggested a literary invention, but every element rang true and seemed idiosyncratically real. The author's death also lends a note of finality and definition to this evocative work, making it necessarily Sebald's last word on recurring themes. If you've not read any of his other books, this is still a fine place to start, because each demands rereading in the context of the whole. For a while his books just play on in your memory, yet when you pick them up again they are full of surprises and undiscovered gems. I recommend getting the hardcover copy so that the binding can stand up to repeated reference.	2002-08-23
US	50632148	R1J7FBDRMLJSB5	0375726403	340719393	Empire Falls	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Reading the movie	I must admit that the diner on the cover and the wild success of Russo's book put me off. I enjoyed Russo's sense of humor and admired Miles Roby, the main character, but reading this light novel was like watching a respectable American movie. It was perfectly well done, but it didn't linger for much longer than the ride home. The teenage subplot was the most disappointing part - in the early chapters Russo struck a balance between his memory of high school and his observation of the current scene, but in the climax he sacrificed both without taking us any deeper into the nightmare with which he replaces them. He's at his best when he's exploring the bittersweet life of a mill town without a mill, but in the end fiction takes over. As result, I quickly forgot what I liked about the book in the first place. I'm sure the movie will be fine.	2002-08-18
US	50632148	R3JJ8RVYLPAG7J	0618197303	157710736	In the Forest: A Novel	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A walk through the haunted woods	O'Brien's dark jewel of a novel packs a wallop. There are plenty of social explanations for Michan O'Kane's psychotic behavior, but what lingers is our primary experience with his dark desires, his tormenting voices, and his innocent victims. Cloosh Wood may be set in Ireland, but as we read its branches seem to be scraping at the very window. O'Kane's violence seems independent of specific weaponry or motivation - it's a primal force that brushes by us in a crowd and gives us goosebumps or wakes us in the night and sends us downstairs to make sure the children are safe. Forgiveness and understanding are present in this novel, but finally no human characters seem capable of delivering us from evil. We end up simply praying that it passes us by.	2002-08-13
US	50632148	R5QVGXEI38AV1	0679775439	730850906	The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle: A Novel	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Truth as seen from a well	You can find the plot and characters detailed in many other reviews, so let me cut to the experience of reading the book. Toru Okada, like the reader, waits for information to come to him, whether it's a titillating phone call, clues about his wife's disappearance, or insight at the bottom of a well. We scramble to make connections, to go deeper, to see the pattern, and are constantly distracted by new incidents and ideas. Many have noted that Okada is a passive character, but that makes us connect to him since we are reading. Like him, we are most active in our dreams or in that netherworld where we're not really sure if we're acting or imagining. The book is most alive at the psychic level, which encourages this faith that if we can make the deep connections, if we can find psychic wholeness, that we'll do the important work of combating the evil represented by the telegenic politician, Noboru Wataya. I have no idea why so many readers feel the book is unresolved - there's a violent climax in which the narrator takes heroic action and returns to the world with a stronger self. What more can one ask of a story?<br />While I was reading the book, I felt myself splitting in two - there was the reader moving quickly through the prose, reacting viscerally to the shocks and jolts of the narrative, and a deeper self, struck as by a tuning fork, waiting for revelation. Okada goes beneath the surface of the mysterious world of war, consumer goods, and music to the place where he finally sees the true face of his enemy, confronts his fear of the flashing knife, endures real wounds from psychic battle, and is healed by unseen tears. I emerged from the well of the book with a similar sense of hope and integration. Some strands of narrative remained unwoven, some ideas seemed outside the provisional pattern I constructed, but that's the way it is in this life. I read many books more than once, finding richer webs of meaning each time. Murukami provides pleasure on so many levels - historical, musical, cultural, literary - that I trust him to be many steps ahead of my first reading of this masterwork. I've read his early novel, A Wild Sheep Chase, his recent South of the Border, East of the Sun, and his non-fiction examination of cults and culture, Underworld, but this novel was the most satisfying of all because of its breadth of vision and sheer ambition. It requires attention, but it rewards deep reading.	2002-07-21
US	50632148	R137BKV08DKVYT	0767913019	570518701	Veiled Courage: Inside the Afghan Women's Resistance	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Hope behind the burqua	This inspiring account of the work of RAWA reminds us that feminism is alive and well in the most unlikely places. Benard provides a broad enough context to account for criticism of the \\"communist\\" and \\"revolutionary\\" aspects of the movement, while offering plenty of stories and anecdotes about its heroes and martyrs. In a country surfeited with martyrs, though, the women who stand out most are the anonymous photographers, translators, teachers, couriers, and organizers, who do the hard work of democracy behind burquas and closed doors. It was also great to read about the many men who support and work with RAWA - this is a nice antidote to the bad rap Afghan men have inherited from the thugs of the Taliban and Northern Alliance. This is a great book to pass on to young people - it makes a lasting case for hope and provides a reminder of how exciting it can be to discover your own power non-violently.	2002-07-21
US	50632148	R1VRSTRVNZMJYY	0385503954	977000479	Atonement: A Novel	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A self-contained gem	Ian McEwan writes beautiful sentences. I read a portion of Atonement out loud and it delighted my tongue. In many ways the book reminds me of Henry James, from his ironies and shifting points of view to his rich appreciation of class and transgression. The book continually surprises the reader, whether by taking a dark turn into the horrors of war or presenting literary criticism in the midst of a hospital scene. I enjoyed the way atonement continually beckoned but was never achieved, even in the creation of such a perfect book. From beginning to end I was delighted and intrigued, and yet I put the novel away with the sense that it was over and done. Even though some strands were left amusingly unraveled, they didn't tug at my conscience or feelings. I prefer books that embed themselves in the skin and leave you changed. Some of McEwan's earlier novels did just that, but this one was too self-contained. Many books need a reader to bring it to life, but this one seems just fine on its own. Maybe that accounts for some of its popularity.	2002-07-17
US	50632148	R1FI0HRB4GD2NX	0312420692	229132867	See Under: LOVE: A Novel	Books	5	55	60	N	N	See Under: Masterpiece	It was hard to read this novel. Grossman presents us with mysteries and references that require both faith and patience -- they are amply rewarded. Part of what delays the intrepid reader is the time required just to absorb, to make connections, to take deep breaths, to sob. The horror and disgust that one expects in a holocaust novel are there, but what pulls us up short are the compassion and, yes, love that emerge in the most unlikely places. It would be no help to read a synopsis of this book or to have a guide to its mysteries, because you read it in your heart and in the aqueous subconscious. Reading is always an act of love, a tryst of imagination with the writer. When it really goes well, when the miracle occurs, a child, a book is produced between them. It hovers luminously in the aether - real, profound, fleeting. See Under: Love invites us to into that relationship, helps us visualize it, and transforms our sense of what this world really is. There is plenty to study, learn, and analyze in Mr. Grossman's incredible work, but my first reading was a sacred experience. This book sat on my shelf for about eleven years. I gave a first edition of it to a young man obsessed with the holocaust who died a year later of a mysterious disease. I thought picking it up would mean acknowledging his absence - instead it reassured me of his presence. Prepare to be surprised.	2002-07-12
US	50632148	R1HFDOR2DMN4BM	0312273207	96429552	In America: A Novel	Books	3	6	7	N	N	A hidden book	This odd novel is like a charming house surrounded by an imposing edifice. While I found the idea of the first chapter very appealing - we observe the author considering her characters and gradually entering their lives - the lack of paragraphs and sustained distance were frustrating. I kept turning to the blurbs on the back to give me faith that the book would achieve motion. When it finally did, it felt like a railroad train developing steam and then chugging right along. The stories of New York and Anaheim at the turn of the century were wonderful, as were the carefully researched tales of trouping in America. Maryna, both a diva and marvelously complex woman, was grand enough to carry the novel and most of the major characters on her back. The novel's coda, unfortunately, was as dense and forbidding as the opening. While I enjoyed reading Edwin Booth's reflections on a life in Shakespeare and was fascinated by the fate of the Booths, more of my attention was commanded by Sontag than either Booth or Marina. Perhaps that brought the act of imagination full circle with the author once again facing her creation, but I missed the livelier environs of the heart of the book, when Marina was stealing the spotlight and creating the illusion of something larger than life.	2001-08-25
US	50632148	R1E0XL0NV1W4NW	0679767398	231777935	South of the Border, West of the Sun: A Novel	Books	5	71	83	N	N	Unforgettable, that's what you are.	This romantic novel left me stunned, staring at the ground, picking out patterns, wondering about the consequences of everything I have done in my life. Unlike Jay Gatsby, I've never thought you could repeat the past, but that hasn't kept me from dwelling on it, pondering the wake of destruction left by my own dreams. Reading this book I felt like Hajime was at times my Japanese twin, living an unaccountably successful and comfortable life haunted by obsessions more animated than reality itself. Sometimes I fall into a trance - a girl in the car next to me reminds me of an old love, a phrase overheard takes me to a place thirty years ago - and I can't really lift myself from it for several days. My wife asks what's wrong and there's no way to explain. It's like a dream that sticks to you all day long or a name that's on the tip of your tongue all weekend but you just can't remember it. That was the experience of South of the Border, West of the Moon, a surprisingly flat and simple story with perfectly chosen oddities and enough specificity to create an unforgettable world. You know the way some short stories are exquisite jewels perfectly set? That's this book.	2001-07-22
US	50632148	R1HZRL7D8S4TEU	0140287825	977269962	Death in Summer	Books	5	6	7	N	N	It's what you don't see that matters	Trevor reminds me of Flannery O'Connor. The holy spirit is somehow numinously present in the random, cruel, and grotesque universe that he describes with such precision and wit. In this story, as in so many others, he succeeds in developing our sympathy for the unloved, the shattered, and the deranged. The reader ends up tolerating, appreciating, even loving the most unlikely characters. In this particular book references to Quincunx allude to Browne's Urn Burial; Trevor's tone is steeped in the melancholy wonder that one hears in Browne and W. G. Sebald, who seems to have tramped some of the same vintage in The Rings of Saturn. The mysteries of life, death, entrapment, growth, and transcendence abide after the surprises and plot twists have been forgotten. Felicia's Journey left me with lingering creepiness, but Death in Summer provides an astringent sense of hope despite the despair and decay all around.	2001-07-11
US	50632148	R1XIEAECJFKWIO	0811214133	895075982	The Rings of Saturn	Books	5	99	103	N	N	Luminous	Sebald's book is full of destruction and loss, yet hope radiates from the objects that remain. The author is deeply curious and impressively educated, which allows him to see cycles of life and death in cities,  buildings, artifacts, and engravings. A marvelous storyteller, he weaves  fantastic yarns so full of digressions that the reader seems to be  dreaming. \\"I'll just push to the end of the chapter,\\" I would think, but  when I reached it, the pattern of each story was so plain, the sense of  distance so sharp that my head was clear, my mind refreshed. I'd be left  with a few strands of meaning that would serve as the warp for the woof of  the next chapter. I was never sure where Sebald was going on his ramble  through Suffolk - it was almost like accompanying a somnambulist - but in  the end I had entered his dream and luminous ghosts paraded before me, full  of light and forgiveness. Leaving the spell of his book, I looked at the  old, familiar world with new horror and wonder, a stranger on a new planet  with my first inkling of the real story.	2000-07-30
