US	50637806	R2F7ULK3KZFUMX	0156004801	475362106	All the King's Men	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	A ride you won't forget	I almost feel it unnecessary to write this review, given the positive responses I see in the review section. But let me simply add my thoughts on this highly acclaimed, and deservedly so, novel. It certainly belongs on any list of great 20th century American novels. From the beautifully constructed plot to the poetic prose, the book is triumph. It tells the story of Willie Stark (Talos in the Warren original and based on the Louisiana governor, Huey Long) -- his political rise and fall, the corruption that is endemic in politics and in man, and the clash of the man of action (Stark) versus the man of the idea, represented in this book by the narrator, Jack Burden. His journey from cynic to admirer to mature observer of Stark's method and madness is in itself fascinating. But even the throw away stuff in this book is great, such as Burden's descriptions of the old men sitting on a park bench, observing the world, almost outside time, or the droll descriptions of the locals who clamor for Willie, and even the interview with the man that Burden believes might be his father, and the crisis of faith he encounters as he explores the history of a Judge he admires and knows better than even he realizes. An American classic.	2003-08-20
US	50637806	RCHX0M1LJJJ2Y	0156572451	731234009	Margin Of Hope: An Intellectual Autobiography	Books	4	7	8	N	N	An intellectual odessy	Though my own inclinations, politically speaking, trend toward the right, I have nevertheless been impressed by the writings of Irving Howe, a socialist who denounced Stalinism, rejected much of the radicalism of the new left, and stayed true to his literary commitments. In short, Howe was a leftist who did not lose his capacity for self criticism. This memoir is a thoughtful look at his life and his relationships with a great many intellectuals of his time, mainly leftists or reformed communists. As the founder of Dissent magazine, Howe is a major force in the history of American letters. And though I still find his ideas on socialism left rather vague (to create a more just society? How, and what, would that be?)he is nevertheless one of the few leftist voices that does not seek to destroy tradition and the past in the name of constructing impossible utopian visions. He also does not have the knee jerk anti-Americanism so prevalent among his successors on the left. His memoir will take readers through his years as a student in New York and an emerging literary power in the world of New York intellectuals. He touches on writers such as Edmund Wilson, Alfred Kazin, Lionel Trilling (and many others), not to mention the editors at Partisan Review, for whom he wrote at one time. An interesting read.	2003-08-01
US	50637806	R1YSSWYEFCW7LA	1932236066	127078077	Malcolm Muggeridge: A Biography	Books	4	15	16	N	N	A Man for All seasons	Malcolm Muggeridge is a literary icon of sorts, a man who called Orwell, Greene and Powell friends, whose image was displayed in Madame Tussaud's Waxworks Museum in London, who was a celebrity editor and tv personality in Britain for much of his life. Yet, it is the final journey of his life, toward spiritual growth and faith, that makes him a lasting figure on the literary scene, and one of the most celebrated Christian writers of the century. Gregory Wolfe's able biography takes us through his literary and spiritual journey, from the dark days of his infidelities and his contemplation of suicide to his saintly days as promoter of Mother Teresea and debater of Bill Buckley. Wolfe introduces us to a wonderful thinker and pundit, and does so without pulling punches, but I would also recommend Muggeridge's own Chronciles of Wasted Time. A shame he never completed the final part of this memoir, for it is a classic in the confessional genre.	2003-07-14
US	50637806	R263OKQQTHR1ZG	0896086151	84458115	Eqbal Ahmad: Confronting Empire	Books	3	7	15	N	Y	The world according to Ahmad	It is hard not to like Ahmad as you read these interviews. First, he is a thoughtful critic of international politics and economic systems. He is as tough on the Soviet left as he is on the capitalist right. And in the process he is engaged by such thinkers as Edward Said, Albert Camus and Antonia Gramsci. Like many leftists, however, Ahmad offers more criticism than solutions. He is not as rabidly anti-American as Chomsky, but he does embrace some of the third-world cliches about the West and the US that grow tiresome after a while. I, for one, am not convinced that the rest of the world is trapped in an American economic construct from which there is no possibility of liberation or advancement. The tough work of building a civil society, of opening the doors of debate and freedom, of embracing a reasonable economic policy that allows for some human ingenuity, none of this is prevented by a US power structure. On the contrary, the US generally has only blocked -- on a few occasions -- forays into Stalinist systems hostile to both local and international interests. On the other hand, some of his observations are keen -- his conclusion, for example, that non-violent resistance can only be effective against oppression that is morally founded, such as British colonialism (bringing enlightenment to the rest of the world). It would not work against Stalin or Hitler (or Saddam). He is also a valuable guide through some of the India/Pakistan issues that are confusing to many of us. Like William Appleman Williams, another US critic, Ahmad has some interesting things to say, but they must be weighed against the total evidence of history.	2003-01-14
US	50637806	R2H48IEJLHRURZ	0375701966	115989267	The Moviegoer	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Modern despair?	A constant theme in the work of Walker Percy is the notion of modern despair. This is evident not only in this bleak but beautiful novel, but also in his book, Lost in the Cosmos, and his other works of fiction, which mostly deal with modern man trying to live in an age of physical and psychological dislocation. The main character in Percy's first and perhaps greatest novel is Binx Bolling, a stock broker and deal maker who cruises through life on intellectual and spiritual automatic pilot. Or so it seems at times. He woos women with near indifference, finds his social connections with ticket sellers and ushers at movie theaters and tries half heartedly to sustain his connections with his family, and Kate, a woman always on the edge of despair who begs Binx, should they marry, to always tell her exactly what to do and how. These are not characters infused with life, but going through the motions, overwhelmed, at times, by the sadness of existence. Binx lost a brother when he was eight years old. A fiance of Kate dies in a car accident, which she survives. In the face of such loss, they are on emotional idle. Binx worries about a world of sameness (a concern of many southerners not enthralled with modern commercial culture that homogenizes all experience) and so he must engage the workers at the theater to ensure he is not living &quot;outside of space and time.&quot; The end is supposed to be uplifting, by some accounts, because Binx stumbles across a kind of faith, even at the loss of a beloved boy relative. But when he sends Kate to run an errand, and tells her exactly what to do, keeping his promise, we are faced with her despair, even if he has found a reason to live or instruct.... I am not sure I enjoyed this novel, but it was riveting at times. Percy writes beautifully here with understated power.	2003-01-14
US	50637806	RHTN69CYP3D3P	0807103578	925004129	I'll Take My Stand: The South and the Agrarian Tradition (Library of Southern Civilization)	Books	5	42	42	N	N	A retrospective glace at our future	The south as a region with a distinct culture and way of life is the subject of this fascinating book. It includes essays by some of the great literary minds of the mid century -- Robert Penn Warren, Allen Tate, John Crowe Ransom and Donald Davidson -- and it speaks to the great traumas unleashed by industrialism on southern culture and traditional local communities. Many memorable lines and some beautiful writing are contained within. Ransom argues that American society, in the guise of progress, was waging an unrelenting war against nature. Lytle reminds us that prophets do not come to us from cities encouraging us to buy new clothes, but rather come from the wilderness stinking of goats. The southerners here were burdened with a racial legacy that undercut their view for a time, but their basic point remains just as valid today -- do we as a society really benefit from destroying local communities, losing respect for tradition and nature, and disrupting our cherished ways of life? Carson, Toffler and Pirsig will remind us that these &quot;romantic&quot; southerners were actually raising important issues about the kind of culture and society we will bequeath to future generations. A proper respect for land and soil is a deep rooted American idea. It is put forward with poetry and skill by these writers. The great urban turmoils of later decades: the break up of the American family, the flight of black Americans to cities that would leave them abandoned, the great losses in nature; all of this is part of the tragedy wrought by industrialism and modernity which these writers, and others (Eliot, Chesterton) warned. This is not to suggest that this is a programatic book -- it is a poetic insight that finds a noble follower in Wendell Berry. It is an important piece of work, and not so dated as some might wish.	2002-02-26
US	50637806	RQ7GWYTRHB8WE	0380002930	498635851	Watership Down	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A classic	It took some coaxing, but I finally convinced my 13 year old, a huge Harry Potter fan, that there was greater literature out there for her to explore. We listened to a fine reading of Watership Down over the past month in the car -- and she was transfixed. Indeed, she went from reluctance, to enthusiasm, to downright hostility if I listened to any part of it while she was not in the car. The book is simply beautiful -- filled with religious and political allegory, but also filled with characters you admire and whose company you actually enjoy: Hazel, the courageous leader, Bigwig, the warrior, Fiver, the prophet, Blackberry, the intellectual, Bluebell, the jokester, and Dandelion, the story-teller, to name a few. The adventures detailed are gripping, from escaping from a doomed warren, to fighting for their lives against the totalitarian regime from Efrafa. In between, our rabbit friends encounter cats, dogs, foxes, and man himself, the most destructive creature of all. As all the accolades here attest, this is a book rich not only in excitement and entertainment but also in wisdom and insight. No knock against J.K. Rowling, but Richard Adams fable of courage and survival far surpasses the much touted Harry Potter. Even my 13 year old seems on the verge of conceding this.	2002-02-15
US	50637806	R3EW96B6BQR5CY	0865474370	815189517	What Are People For?: Essays	Books	5	115	115	N	N	A gentle voice for common sense	Berry hits another homerun in this collection. This Jeffersonian throwback offers us a vision of life far removed from the shopping mall mania that is stripping much of our countryside of its natural beauty. Berry, instead, suggests that a return to basics is the best way to ensure our independence, freedom and quality of life. Berry argues, as did T.S. Eliot, that a wrong attitude toward nature suggests a wrong attitude toward God. He introduces us to men whose greatness lies in being themselves -- a black farmer named Nate Shaw, a Kentucky environmentalist named Harry Caudill, and writer Edward Abby. He explores Huck Finn and A River Runs Through It, he suggests that an education that does not prepare us to take care of ourselves cannot be complete and argues that our educational system prepares us mainly to function as cogs in an industrial society. In short, Berry sustains his claim, made in most of his books, that we need to slow down our lives, rebuild human connections, value the land around us for its intrinsic worth, and cultivate our souls by cultivating our garden, if you will. As a previous reviewer points out, Berry does not fit easily into any political movement of today -- that is because there is no Jeffersonian movement to speak of, the democrats having abandoned local empowerment, the conservatives, too many of them, having embraced corporate power. Berry's is a voice that needs to be heard.	2001-12-17
US	50637806	R1ZCU2FKN82B0X	0156225751	152331338	A Continuous Harmony: Essays Cultural and Agricultural (A Harvest book, HB 301)	Books	5	14	15	N	Y	More Profound Insight from Berry	In this small but important book (which describes most of Berry's collections), the great Jeffersonian essaysist takes on modernity and asks fundamental questions about the way we treat our land. Strip mining, reading and nature poetry are some of the subjects covered in this short collection. The most important essay, however, is Discipline and Hope, in which Berry argues that we must adjust our thinking about the planet and our interactions with it. Berry asks basic questions that point to many of the fundamental problems we confront today. How can we be truly free if we depend on others for almost everything of value -- food, clothing, shelter? Why do we surrender ourselves to specialists whose great achievements are usually abstract and aimed at making us dependent upon impersonal schemes? How can we live honorably if we do not honor our neighbors or creation by treating both with respect?<br />Berry is trying to temper the fast-paced, profit obsessed society we have become by asking questions about the quality of our lives. Why do those who call themselves conservative fail to see the importance of conserving the health of our families, our land, our communities? Are they driven solely by profit and power? How is it that &quot;compassionate&quot; liberals pursue policies that would make us all dependent on government, thereby forcing us as a society to surrender our self reliance and our dignity? Are they concerned about us our their own power base? If we reduce all of life to commodities and measure all worth by what is of value in the short-term, we will surely continue to squander the most valuable parts of life and creation.<br />Berry argues for a better way. Learn to be truly self reliant. Have the patience to do good work and honor the land on which you live. Care about your community as much as you care about your pocketbook. Grow your own food. Buy from local providers. Learn the wisdom of everyday farmers and craftsmen that has been forgotten and derided in recent decades. If this sounds quaint, well, think again. Our society was built in large measure by men and women who respected and understood nature. If we lose that part of our heritage, Berry argues, we risk not only losing our past, but also our future. Berry knows of that which he preaches -- he is a farmer as well as a writer and has spent decades studying the example of those who have not forgotten that America has always had a loyal opposition that sought to temper industrialization and commercial interests for the sake of the permanent things conservatives like Russell Kirk and T. S. Eliot once fought to preserve.	2001-12-03
US	50637806	R2H8HKM4GRPRY1	0691004005	754912529	A Matter of Interpretation: Federal Courts and the Law (The University Center for Human Values Series)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	An Insightful Discussion	In this tidy book, Justice Scalia puts forward his theory of jurisprudence and takes on the subject of judicial philosophy and what he calls the modern movement of judicial activism. He begins by giving an overview of the history of common law and judicial review, in which he contends that judges historically respected stare decisis - that is, previous rulings. Only in modern times, with the rise of democratic activism, has the desire of judges to \\"make law\\" become a problem of significant proportions.<br />Scalia then gets to the heart of his argument - that the role of the judge is not to ascertain the intent of legislators, but rather to ascertain the meaning of the words contained in a particular document. In this sense, he a textual purist compared to activists who will search out the meaning of particular pieces of legislation by evaluating legislative history, popular press, Congressional record, etc. He concedes that language must be interpreted, but he argues that there is a disciplined approach, and a liberal approach. The disciplined approach he supports would evaluate text within the notion of reasonable interpretation, \\"placed alongside the remainder of the corpus juris.\\"<br />\\"Government by unexpressed intent is simply tyranny,\\" Scalia argues. \\"That seems to me the essence of the famous American ideal set forth in the Massachusetts Constitution. A government of laws, not of men. Men may intend what they will; but it is only the laws that they enact which bind us.\\"<br />Scalia argues that the fact that some texts bear multiple interpretations does not sink the enterprise of textualism. The divide on constitutional questions is not between what the framers intended and what they wrote, but rather between original meaning and current meaning. Scalia argues it is precisely the threat of abolishing cherished rights that makes original meaning important - it is a protection against those, (say Nazis) who would seek to impose a new order or new interpretationof acceptable governance. He argues that the notion of a \\"living constitution\\" has narrowed the straits of American freedom, not expanded them. The prevailing mood may or may not be just in the eyes of history, but leave that to the legislators and the great debates among thinkers and politicians; don't seek to encode today's moods in tomorrow's constitution through judicial activism. The avenues for changing the constitution and expanding its purview are well known -- otherwise, leave legislating to the legislatures.<br />Tribe and Dworkin offer the most interesting rebuttals. Dworkin seeks to root constitutional interpretation in broad principles of understanding and rights; Tribe concedes he has no theory of jurisprudence, other than he finds it difficult to accept the certitude of either Dworkin or Scalia that they have the right interpretation. His is a strange argument. Scalia never says the Constitution does not bear multiple interpretations, but he does argue for a more disciplined approach, in which rights are not found willy nilly in the minds of judges and then imposed on the original document by which we are governed. One annoying aspect the book: Tribe responds both to Scalia's original essay and his counter rebuttal within the first rebuttal -- before we have even read Scalia's response. This got a tad confusing and did not add much to the overall discussion.	2001-10-30
US	50637806	R1SNYOLFC28BG3	0691004005	754912529	A Matter of Interpretation: Federal Courts and the Law (The University Center for Human Values Series)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	An Insightful Discussion	In this tidy book, Justice Scalia puts forward his theory of jurisprudence and takes on the subject of judicial philosophy and what he calls the modern movement of judicial activism. He begins by giving an overview of the history of common law and judicial review, in which he contends that judges historically respected stare decisis - that is, previous rulings. Only in modern times, with the rise of democratic activism, has the desire of judges to \\"make law\\" become a problem of significant proportions.<br />Scalia then gets to the heart of his argument - that the role of the judge is not to ascertain the intent of legislators, but rather to ascertain the meaning of the words contained in a particular document. In this sense, he a textual purist compared to activists who will search out the meaning of particular pieces of legislation by evaluating legislative history, popular press, Congressional record, etc. He concedes that language must be interpreted, but he argues that there is a disciplined approach, and a liberal approach. The disciplined approach he supports would evaluate text within the notion of reasonable interpretation, \\"placed alongside the remainder of the corpus juris.\\"<br />\\"Government by unexpressed intent is simply tyranny,\\" Scalia argues. \\"That seems to me the essence of the famous American ideal set forth in the Massachusetts Constitution. A government of laws, not of men. Men may intend what they will; but it is only the laws that they enact which bind us.\\"<br />Scalia argues that the fact that some texts bear multiple interpretations does not sink the enterprise of textualism. The divide on constitutional questions is not between what the framers intended and what they wrote, but rather between original meaning and current meaning. Scalia argues it is precisely the threat of abolishing cherished rights that makes original meaning important - it is a protection against those, (say Nazis) who would seek to impose a new order or new interpretationof acceptable governance. He argues that the notion of a \\"living constitution\\" has narrowed the straits of American freedom, not expanded them. The prevailing mood may or may not be just in the eyes of history, but leave that to the legislators and the great debates among thinkers and politicians; don't seek to encode today's moods in tomorrow's constitution through judicial activism. The avenues for changing the constitution and expanding its purview are well known -- otherwise, leave legislating to the legislatures.<br />Tribe and Dworkin offer the most interesting rebuttals. Dworkin seeks to root constitutional interpretation in broad principles of understanding and rights; Tribe concedes he has no theory of jurisprudence, other than he finds it difficult to accept the certitude of either Dworkin or Scalia that they have the right interpretation. His is a strange argument. Scalia never says the Constitution does not bear multiple interpretations, but he does argue for a more disciplined approach, in which rights are not found willy nilly in the minds of judges and then imposed on the original document by which we are governed. One annoying aspect the book: Tribe responds both to Scalia's original essay and his counter rebuttal within the first rebuttal -- before we have even read Scalia's response. This got a tad confusing and did not add much to the overall discussion.	2001-10-30
US	50637806	R4ZJGHAP1KA1G	0679767495	771111727	In Retrospect: The Tragedy and Lessons of Vietnam	Books	3	45	54	N	N	Yes, they did manage it poorly	McNamara seeks to explain in this book the failure of American policy in Vietnam. He roots that failure mainly in false assumptions about the intentions of the North Vietnamese -- that is to say, they were actually nationalists first, communists second, and would not have acted to destablize Southeast Asia has we simply found a way for them to unify and rule the whole of Vietnam. He also demonstrates the remarkable lack of management skills of those known as the &quot;best and the brightest.&quot; For example, he discusses how they failed to coordinate military actions with efforts to establish diplomatic negotiations; he talks about lack of historical knowledge about Vietnam among policymakers; he documents the remarkably inept and cavalier handling of the Diem situation. The book is useful in that it does show just how limited the vision of some of our policymakers is -- it hard to believe, given the French experience in Vietnam, that our top officials did not avail themselves, for example, of that history, yet McNamara basically argues that there were no &quot;experts&quot; to help guide their efforts. Unbelievable.<br />The book is useful in understanding the limited period of Kennedy/Johnson, but McNamara does not provide any deeper analysis of Nixon policies, or explore the historical issues that led up to the 1960s in any depth at all. In that sense, the book is almost as limited as the policy McNamara helped shape. Whether the war was &quot;just&quot; or not, whether the communist threat was real or not, it is mainly incompetence that seems to have shaped our policy -- there was not even a group within the policymaking establishment dedicated to the war full time. These are basic management and leadership issues that suggest mainly that the guys running the show were not so bright after all. I am hoping his second book on this subject, Argument without End, provides a more detailed analysis of the real issues that shaped that period of our history -- it includes discussions between US policymakers and the North Vietnamese.	2001-10-18
US	50637806	R452ZH6XF0LUP	0226772349	734279498	Real Presences	Books	4	83	86	N	Y	Final Questions	This small but complicated book is an effort to explore the deepest questions confronting human creativity. Steiner begins by seeking to remove artistic expression from the domain of science and scientific impulses that are so evident in post-modern criticism. He concedes that language is under attack -- and from many different directions. The 20th century brought us many intellectual movements that sought to divorce us from the word -- psychology, which sought truth in dreams and fantasies; linguistic theory that sought to isolate signs from meaning; deconstructionism, which suggests that language, being so imprecise a tool of communication, is therefore not useful in an exploration for truth. Authors themselves, so this argument goes, cease to matter. Then there is the deterioration of language, so stock with cliches and predictable usage that rob it of its power and vitality. Of course, all of these claims are interesting, some even contain some truth, but Steiner contends that somewhere between nihilism and the dogmatic notion that texts are sacred and final (not open to disagreement and discussion), there is a common sense middle ground.<br />Human experience is complex and it can unfold in many ways, at different levels. Music is a common thread in human emotional life -- it is part of artistic expression. Words, while not always well used, still have the power to move us -- enabling us to give directions, buy groceries, build bridges or express feelings of deep love or loss. The masters of language and art shake us at our core, force us to examine more deeply our humanity, and reshape our reality even as we are unaware of their formative power.<br />Steiner then argues that it is the need to find meaning in existence, to explore the borderland between life and death, that literature and artistic expression are rooted in the transcedant. He is not so much saying that God infuses all art, but rather that the search for God and the need to create as God creates is the powerful moving force in human creation. (It is here that he makes the controversial claim that women, because they bring life into the world, are not as driven as men to express themselves creatively....)<br />This is not an easy read. Some sections had to be read several times. In this case, I would agree with Steiner that my reading is at best an educated glimpse at his argument. Steiner writes beautifully in places, but his style is thick with nuance and references that are often hard to follow. However, those interested in resisting post-modern forces that threaten to fragment the human could not ask for a more impressive thinker to guide them through the murky lower regions that make up the hell of modern criticism. He will then lead you, if not to the paradiso, at least to a place where art, literature and poetry still move the human heart.is the powerful moving force in human creation. (It is here that he makes the controversial claim that women, because they bring life into the world, are not as driven as men to express themselves creatively....) <br />This is not an easy read. Some sections had to be read several times. In this case, I would agree with Steiner that my reading is at best an educated glimpse at his argument. Steiner writes beautifully in places, but his style is thick with nuance and references that are often hard to follow. However, those interested in resisting post-modern forces that threaten to fragment the human could not ask for a more impressive thinker to guide them through the murky lower regions that make up the hell of modern criticism. He will then lead you, if not to the paradiso, at least to a place where art, literature and poetry still move the human heart.	2001-08-09
US	50637806	R219MUS0XUHFD1	0385484186	935504328	The Heart Aroused: Poetry and the Preservation of the Soul in Corporate America	Books	4	18	18	N	Y	Lessons on Life and Work	David Whyte is a fine writer and this book is a noteworthy contribution to the literature on how to bring creativity and soul not only into the corporate world, but into each of our lives. He works hard at underscoring the symbolic importance of his literary references to Beowulf, Coleridge and Eliot, among others, and writes for readers who might not otherwise be poetically inclined. A Heart Aroused argues very simply that each of us owe it to ourselves to bring courage and passion into our work and into our lives. If we cannot embrace the job with passion, perhaps we are in the wrong job. He discusses the fear and voicelessness that so often dominate tough corporate environments, and the troubling compromises that each of us make as we struggle to balance many pressures and demands. When these compromises become too severe, he argues, we begin to slip into a comatose mode of life and lose our edge and our passion for quality and good service. But this is not an easy issue -- some will be tempted to counter that practical concerns are not easily set aside when family and career are at stake. Many a corporate person battens down the hatches and seeks to weather the storms below deck rather than experience the exhileration of being fully engaged in overcoming crises and challenges, when failure can lead to such devastating results. Quite frankly, there are times and situations when we are not welcomed by those in power to engage these challenges. The goal of all good managers and CEOs, Whyte is saying, is to turn their companies into soul friendly environments, for only then will their employees and their products reach their full potential. To not heed the soul, Whyte argues, is even more dangerous than risking the ire of power, because then, rather than being killed despite our best efforts, we kill ourselves and become passive victims rather than actors in the drama. A beginning to an important discussion, but not as concrete as it could be on managing such abstract ideas in our every day world. What he is saying, in an eloquent way, is that we must each be true to our souls, to ourselves, if we are ever to experience true joy in our work and our lives. Not a new idea, but one thoughtfully put forward here.	2001-07-27
US	50637806	R1PPQNN7HA9071	0394757025	499093189	Blues	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A celebration of life and nature	John Hersey's book is a treasure. It is conceived as a series of conversations between an accomplished fisherman and a stranger, who, in the beginning at least, is predisposed to dislike fishing as a brutal pastime. But Hersey, page by page, chapter by chapter, lures the stranger (and the reader) into the deep mysteries of the sea and the complex world of ocean life that so many of us take for granted. The detail about the habits of fish, particularly the bluefish, is fascinating, but this is also a celebration of life and the way that man and sea are inter-dependent. Without being sentimental, Hersey teaches us what it is to love oceans, fresh air, and even the brutal cycles of life. If that is not enough, the book is sprinkled with anecdotes, poetry and recipes. A book that cannot but help you appreciate our oceans and John Hersey's skills as a writer.	2001-07-18
US	50637806	RL3XXAWSUSJE3	0674196376	534530979	Democracy and Distrust: A Theory of Judicial Review (Harvard Paperbacks)	Books	4	23	23	N	Y	Juridprudence: Is there a middle ground?	This excellent little book tries to find a middle ground between the judicial activism advocated by Ronald Dworkin, for example, and the strict original intent approach eloquently defended by Robert Bork. Philosophy of jurisprudence is not always a concept easily grasped, however. In the first chapter, Ely takes us through the discussion of where and how judges drive their activist approach through the door. Ely agrees that the due process clause of the constitution is not the place where an activist jurist should hang his hat. The due process clause, he argues, is concerned strictly with procedural matters, though it can be forcefully enforced within that context. Likewise, he argues, the 14th amendment, with its equality clause and privileges and immunities clause, also has been used to broadly expand judicial oversight on a number of issues. Again, Ely dissents by arguing that the 9th amendment is the more appropriate vehicle because of the procedure issue that constrains the due process clause as well in the 14th amendment. <br />Judicial review must be rooted in some kind of context - but the noninterpretivist must choose, traditionally, from a long list of inadequate places: individual values of a jurist is inadequate; natural law is vague, as is moral philosophy generally; consensus is imprecise and debatable and neutral principle is damn near impossible to define. He roots his own support of Warren court in participation, which is rooted in our very notion of democracy. His phrase: \\"participatory responsiveness.\\" We need not grasp at high moral claims to justify supporting civil rights, but in the simple idea that what is available to the majority, must be equally available to the minority. They must be allowed to participate equally, he seems to be arguing, a notion that is easily found in our own legal and constitutional history. <br />Next Ely walks us through the ways we might address specific issues within his theoretical approach, such as free speech,which need not be defended always in the broadest terms, but might be better addressed as a procedural or participatory issue - that is to say, if the court acts to limit free speech, it is best to do so through categories of unprotected speech rather than appealing to abstract rights or dangers, such as Holmes did when he spoke of imminent danger. (I hope I am following him here). He also addresses the issue of apportionment, and again seeks to have the court avoid such political entanglements by searching for the best way to allow all citizens the right to participate in our democracy - and one person, one vote became the only tenable way to do so. Ely includes in chapter 4 a short but helpful review of the constitution in which he discusses the document for what it is - not an abstract or ideological document, but rather a governing tool that seeks to protect a system, not push an ideological agenda. I wish he had added specific cases and shown how he might have handled them through his approach, particularly tough cases like abortion, for example. THe last chapter rambles a bit and is hard to follow but this is an interesting book, given that the hotly debated issue about judicial activism continues.	2001-07-11
US	50637806	R307RG0QV4CD9P	0345430093	495583167	Rocks of Ages - Science and Religion in the Fullness of Life (Library of Contemporary Thought)	Books	3	9	12	N	N	The eternal debate	Stephen Jay Gould is one of a increasing number of scientists who write like angels -- Lewis Thomas, Daniel Dennett, Richard Dawkins, Alan Lightman, and Paul Davies, to name a few. This book is his attempt to ask for a truce between theology and science. NOMA is his term for this truce. Let scientists debate the material world, he suggests, and let theologians explore the eternal world. This is far better, he continues, than trying what he calls &quot;syncretism&quot; -- that is, insisting on reconciling them. This is enlightenment temperament to its core and it makes sense to a point. After all, if Einstein and Newton could not peel back the mysteries of faith, it is unlikely that any scientist will, at least for the next few milleniums. On the other hand, theologians do best when they seek to understand the larger details of our place in the universe and leave the details to the scientists. Gould takes us on an interesting discussion that includes an analysis of the Scopes trial. As a faithful Catholic who loves science, I am happy to say that the church, to an increasing degree, has agreed to leave science to the experts while nevertheless seeking to temper science at the extremes. There are places, and Gould does not address this in much detail, where science and religion do inevitably struggle: cloning, for example, and euthanasia. A science or technology not built upon a sound moral and humane foundation has led us to Nazi concentration camps. But Gould has contributed to the debate -- that reasoning, thoughtful people need to understand that science has its domain, and theology its. They can inform each other without trying to dominate each other, Gould suggests. And who is to say that science is simply not another way of exploring God's creation? Gould's next chapter in this debate should be to discuss the ethics of science -- and it is here that we are glad to have some theologians,artists and even legislators weighing in.	2001-06-29
US	50637806	R3UN9XC3Y2TV2O	0553277472	340684550	Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance: An Inquiry into Values	Books	5	8	10	N	N	A classic	Robert Pirsig has written a book that is standing the test of time. It is both a dramatic and philosophical triumph.<br />Pirsig begins his journey with an observation: his traveling companions, John and Sylvia, are strangely alienated from the technological world from which they derive so much benefit. John will not even consider maintaining his own motorcycle. Many Americans are just like them. Why?<br />Pirsig traces the answer to the Greeks, specifically Plato and Aristotle who, he argues, conceived a system of thought in which beauty is severed from functionality (as if the engine of the motorcycle is somehow disconnected from the shiny chrome machine we see on the highway.) Functionality or \\"classic\\" thought became less attractive to us than \\"romantic\\" thought or beauty. Plato and Aristotle, Pirsig argues, committed a murder that their adherents have covered up ever since. The victim was quality.<br />That is the philosophical issue in a nutshell. The story's high drama revolves around Pirsig's rediscovery of \\"Phaedrus,\\" the person he had been before his manic exploration of quality literally drove him mad. One of the book's powerful ironies is that the deeper the protagonist digs into his forgotten past, the stronger his identification with the persona of Phaedrus and the more he isolates himself from Chris, who is frightened by his father's deep silences and the \\"return\\" of Phaedrus' ghost. In short, his very attempt to tear down the divide between quality and our lives diminished the quality of his relationship with his son, at least for a time. <br />The larger issue remains: to the extent that an appreciation for quality does not inform our lives, we are less understanding, less excellent, less civilized and more alienated from ourselves and our neighbors. Viewed this way, the absence of quality is the absence of God.<br />When Pirsig applies this critique to modern-day culture, he strikes familiar yet disturbing chords. Pirsig describes &quot;primary&quot; culture as the mass-produced television shows, pop music, consumer goods and products that in superficial ways bind us together. The more we embrace this &quot;primary&quot; culture, the less we are involved in the real communities around us and the lonelier we become. Pirsig contrasted the loneliness he experienced in urban, crowded environments with the peace he felt when riding his motorcycle through the open fields of the Midwest.<br />&quot;The explanation, I suppose, is that the physical distance between people has nothing to do with loneliness. It's psychic distance, and in Montana and Idaho the physical distances are big but the psychic distances between people are small.&quot;<br />   He continues: &quot;I think if we are going to reform the world, and make it a better place to live in, the way to do it is not with talk about relationships of a political nature, which are inevitably dualistic, full of subjects and objects and their relationship to one another; or with programs full of things for other people to do.... The place to improve the world is first in one's own heart and head and hands, and then work outward from there. Other people can talk about how to expand the destiny of mankind. I just want to talk about how to fix a motorcycle. I think what I have to say has more lasting value.&quot;<br />Today, we take discussion of quality for granted: Total Quality Management, the Pursuit of Excellence, Synchronicity -- an entire genre of business and spiritual literature revolves around the concept. Tom Peters, Steven Covey, Peter Senge and Max DePree are among the management gurus who circle the globe to engage in &quot;quality&quot; talk. If we have not fully digested Pirsig's critique, we have at least acknowledged the premise of his argument -- a culture that quits caring will not long endure, economically or spiritually.	2001-06-29
US	50637806	R1V5F29BNL98YJ	0738201669	526351529	The Meaning Of It All: Thoughts Of A Citizen-scientist (Helix Books)	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Notes and Asides	This is a small collection of lectures in which Feynman explores, in non-scientific jargon, such matters as scientific methodology, the interplay of faith and reason, and the importance of doubt or skepticism to a scientist. Though Feynman is a non-believer religiously speaking, he is interested in faith and very respectful of it. As a fan, I do have to agree with Mr. Sinclair below that these lectures do seem hurriedly pulled together. (An editor could not have helped, however, as these are lectures as delivered and are thus original source material.) Though not the stylist we might wish for, Feynman does give us an enjoyable and quick read that gives some insight into of the great scientists of the past century and into some of the important issues we confront in politics, religion and science.	2001-06-27
US	50637806	R1BAPLKFXIVYG	0738201669	526351529	The Meaning Of It All: Thoughts Of A Citizen-scientist (Helix Books)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Notes and Asides	This is a small collection of lectures in which Feynman explores, in non-scientific jargon, such matters as scientific methodology, the interplay of faith and reason, and the importance of doubt or skepticism to a scientist. Though Feynman is a non-believer religiously speaking, he is interested in faith and very respectful of it. As a fan, I do have to agree with Mr. Sinclair below that these lectures do seem hurriedly pulled together. (An editor could not have helped, however, as these are lectures as delivered and are thus original source material.) Though not the stylist we might wish for, Feynman does give us an enjoyable and quick read that gives some insight into of the great scientists of the past century and into some of the important issues we confront in politics, religion and science.	2001-06-27
US	50637806	RS3NJ5L8W3BLO	0553280414	586746552	A Separate Peace	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Some lessons are not confined to childhood	Knowles book withstands the test of time because the issues he confronts -- through the school boys whose lives he details -- are timeless: the need to find enemies amid the confusing forests of our lives, and the need to recognize the true enemy within each of us: ego, envy, and mean spiritedness. This is not a book simply for young adults, but for all of us who must reconcile ourselves to rejection, loss and our own inner demons. Knowles writes with haunting clarity and tells a story that is as compelling as it is tragic.	2001-04-25
US	50637806	RWKPB09QA1TW7	0865472874	699516706	Altars of Unhewn Stone: Science and the Earth	Books	4	14	14	N	Y	Agricultural Agonistes	Wes Jackson has undertaken one of the most profound efforts of our time: to save us from ourselves. Altars of Unhewn Stone consists of a series of reasoned essays about the dangers of our slide as a nation into corporate agricultural system in which we are losing touch with the natural order and putting ourselves at risk. Current agricultural practices, which have led to the destruction of millions of family farms, are too dependent on fossil fuels, thereby highly inefficient; have narrowed biodiversity in agricultural products, thereby making us more vulnerable to disease and famine; are leading to the long-term erosion and degradation of our soils and ecosystems. Jackson, as a founder of the Land Institute, is trying to embrace this issue in a constructive way. He and his colleagues, including the great essayist Wendell Berry, are arguing for a more intelligent use of the land, citing Native American and Amish models. It is not simply the family farm that is being destroyed, but our fundamental connecton to a natural and healthy way of life. The brave new world of agriculture that Jackson fears is one in which biological and genetic manipulation are the norm, in which chickens are bred without feathers, and pigs and cows are mutated, and animals are increasingly treated brutally, confined to warehouses and feed lots rather than farms. The tragedy unfolding on our land is being forestalled by huge investments in pesticides, fuels and equipment, but the long term cost to us can not be denied, he argues, as we pollute, destroy or degrade our environment. This is one of several important books Jackson has written on the subject and it is an important cultural critique that we fail to heed at our own peril.	2001-03-25
US	50637806	R14P40TZWOGQFT	0679763996	458475501	The Moral Animal: Why We Are, the Way We Are: The New Science of Evolutionary Psychology	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Not the whole story	Why is it that so many men cannot remain faithful, if not in act in thought? Why is it that women are so drawn to powerful, rich or famous men? Robert Wright contends that we are driven by deep-rooted biological instincts -- survival instincts, if you will. Whether we are conscious of these drives or not, they are a part of our decision-making, particularly as it relates to courting, love and reproduction. Truly disinterested acts by human beings are extremely rare, and most of us are driven by what Richard Dawkins has called &quot;the selfish gene.&quot; When it comes to such matters, Wright continues, most human beings are actually pretty cold hearted, as any one who has had his or her love rejected knows. There is little joy in being lost at the bottom of the biological desirability chain. <br />Yet, while much of what Wright argues is certainly true, it is also only a partial truth. Human history is not merely a biological notebook, it is also the history of those who have sought to overcome biology. From the Greeks to Christ to the Enlightenment there have been voices that have stood fast against the prerogatives of power, which are often biologically dictated. Why is this impulse so strong? If survival were the answer, as Wright contends, would not individuals choose to always align themselves with power? Yet, we know many men and women who died for higher ground. <br />Just as confusing, how does Wright explain the self destructive generosity so often experienced by those who risk their lives for others -- the soldier who throws himself on the hand grenade to save his friends; the individual who jumps in harm's way to save another. Wright would argue that these acts of random kindness are just as likely acts of selfishness because we do expect, should we survive, to win esteem and praise and thereby strengthen ourselves for biological survival. (One might add here that certain kinds of selfishness, not carried to the extreme, are necessary to production, livelihood and lifting of the human spirit -- no one writes a book or opera afterall, without carving out time alone and denying others their energy).<br />Wright's view of life can seem bleak, to be sure, for it borders on reducing every act to selfish calculation, conscious or not. The exception, Wright contends, is the truly unselfish act -- the anonymous act of generosity, etc. But if we carry the logic forward, Mr. Wright no doubt would tell us that they seek the ultimate survival -- their souls, and so on. In having an answer for everything, this theory of existence gives answers to nothing.<br />Where does this leave humanity? Unfortunately, not much better off than we were before. The Darwinist impulse -- to reduce life to biological impulse -- is self defeating, even if true. One wonders if Mr. Wright might not have spent more time arguing for a more noble worldview, by encouraging people to embrace faith, love and charity, rather than telling us what is fairly clear to anyone who has witnessed the popularity of the high school quarterback and the cheerleaders. Love thy neighbor as thyself remains the most compelling wisdom of the age, and if we do it, we serve both God and man, because if, as Wright contends, we love ourselves so deeply, than we cannot but love our neighbors justly.	2001-03-05
US	50637806	R1PAV7GM0Q4MYU	0761525513	378284944	Let Us Talk of Many Things : The Collected Speeches with New Commentary by the Author	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	An American Original	Bill Buckley is quite simply a man of remarkable gifts who never ceases to make us think. Long before it was fashionable to speak out against communism, Buckley was there making the intellectual and moral case against totalitarianism on the left. When the Berlin Wall came crashing down, Mr. Buckley, as much as any intellectual pundit in the country, had a right to feel proud. When Ronald Reagan became president, Mr. Buckley deserved to take a bow for fashioning a conservative movement (beginning in the 1950s) that was articulate, humane, stylish and at long last empowered. Buckley is known for his wit, his repartee and his unique mannerisms, but what is not known as widely is that he is quite simply one of the kindest public men around -- as anyone who has corresponded with him knows. This collection traces the remarkable intellectual and political journey of one of America's best known writers and personalities. Undergirding all that Buckley writes is a deep and abiding faith in God, country and family. You won't want to miss this great collection.	2001-03-01
US	50637806	R2CUVZ29RWYAPL	0791447545	635269164	Breaking Down the Digital Walls: Learning to Teach in a Post-Modem World (Suny Series, Education and Culture)	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Technology and the Humanities: A battle engaged	In this important book, the authors tackle an old issue in a modern context. We might recall that Victor Hugo, in the Hunchback of Notre Dame, discussed the moral and cultural implications of the printing press. Burniske and Monke bring this discussion to the 1990s by studying the implications of Internet technology on education. The fundamental question centers on what it means to be educated in the first place. Burniske, for example, makes a distinction between being trained, the language of technology, and being educated, the language of the humanities. This book walks us through specific efforts by the authors to integrate Internet technology into their classroom teaching, but what clearly galls both of them is that deeper questions about how to properly educate students are getting lost in the hype over equipment, technical wizardry and on-line chatter. There are plenty of kids out there who can create web sites, hack into complex systems, and master the language of technology, but do these same kids know right from wrong? Can they critically read a text, or relate to the deep emotions revealed in a play or novel, or even treat fellow classmates or online correspondents with respect? These issues are the real test of education, and if they get lost in the hype, we are building a Brave New World every bit as pernicious as the one described by Huxley. Burniske is an innovator who is trying to find ways to correctly use technology in the classroom, that is, without surrendering human issues or context. Monke is more skeptical, perhaps, but a willing participant in the dialogue -- how can teachers be empowered and liberated to properly educate their students.<br />Students, by the way, are the real concern of these two teachers. They do not see them as products or consumers, but as a community of people who need to be nurtured, cared about and finally led to a deeper and wiser understanding of their place in the world. Burniske and Monke are teachers in the best tradition of that word. They are about shedding light on the human experience, not simply walking the beaten (and often failed) paths of traditional educational discourse. Whether you agree or disagree with their arguments, you will find the discussion worth the effort. The final chapter is riveting, but the rest of the book provides a rich context for an important, humane and caring dialogue about some very important issues confronting humanity.	2001-02-16
US	50637806	R3EVHB4QLD27AX	1582430586	76720439	Life Is a Miracle: An Essay Against Modern Superstition	Books	4	2	3	N	N	An important book	Wendell Berry is quite simply one of the great essayists of our age, a man of common sense, deep wisdom, and passionate concern for our rural traditions and our local communities. He stands against the corporate and big government mentality of our time, and in this he is in the vein of G. K. Chesterton, though rooted more in the land than Chesterton, whose worldview was more that of the small shop than the farm. This book takes on the scientific notion that our lives are the sum of our biological parts. Not so, argues Berry, who, coming very close to a spiritual and religious view, talks about eternal verities rooted in the place we call home. His critique of consilience is not easily understood if you do not understand Wilson's theory, but this is another excellent essay that fits the pattern of his other important collections.	2001-01-29
US	50637806	R205U0CRGA8MX4	0684857995	247300800	An Invitation To The White House : At Home With History	Books	2	18	40	N	N	Give us a break	The spin machine to reclaim Camelot for Clintonville is already at work. One suspects we can look forward to many such attempts to put a Kennedyesque sheen on a White House that even supporters agree was a cauldron of greed, power-grabbing and gropping. Like the Kennedy myth, we should resist being seduced and instead appreciate that such books are gratuitous attempts by the powerful to ensure their legacy, make more money and -- in Ms. Clinton's case -- keep her image in the public eye....In short, don't waste your time.	2001-01-29
US	50637806	RCOPI14LKCD2C	0806521511	23209728	Rating The Presidents: A Ranking of U.S. Leaders, from the Great and Honorable to the Dishonest and In competent	Books	3	8	19	N	N	Not Quite Right	Like any such book, this one is highly debatable and clearly subjective and, not surprisingly in my view, plays to the politically correct biases of our time. So while the raters, most of them academics, place FDR second on the all time list, Ronald Reagan, inexplicably, rates 26. What did Reagan do: he was instrumental in winning the Cold War, he rebuilt our defenses, restored national pride, and put in place economic and tax policies that we are still benefiting from. Yes, the deficits were unfortunate, but they were a downpayment on what became one of the greatest victories for freedom. Why, then, does Reagan come off relatively poorly relative to Ike, Kennedy, even Clinton and Bush? The answer, in my view, is because he was an unapologetic conservative who trusted citizens more than government. Still, you can enjoy debating the content of this book.	2001-01-23
