US	50636515	R2TJ3HQV7MFAZV	0525946756	557461421	Skipping Towards Gomorrah: The Seven Deadly Sins and the Pursuit of Happiness in America	Books	5	17	25	N	N	Celebrations for Sinners	Skipping Towards Gomorrah is, first of all, one of the best books I've read this year. And I've read a lot of books. But few of them defend and celebrate so entertainly some of my favorite activities. Well, o.k., maybe not the swinging and the gun-slinging. And I guess I'm not much of gambler, either.  But anyway, it isn't so much the individual recreations that make this book so much fun, but the thoughtful, intelligent,carefully researched, and resoundingly noisy and well-deserved slap it aims at the smug, grouchy, holier-than-thou virtucrats (Savage's word) like Dr. Laura, William Bennett, and Robert Bork who are continually trying to boss everyone around and shame them or ...them into living their lives according to others' standards of behavior--standards which are, more often than not, based on fundamentalist Christian beliefs and hypocritically un-American in their demands that people NOT pursue happiness as they see fit.<br />In celebration of sinners everywhere, Savage has written an entertaining and enlightening tribute to the seven deadly sins (which, for you beginners out there,  are lust, sloth, gluttony, greed, pride, envy, and anger) and their role in the lives of the everyday Americans who, in their pursuit of happiness, happily engage in all or some of these activities. Specifically, Savage focuses on sub-categories of the major sins, exploring in detail the lives of gamblers, swingers, pot-smokers, overeaters, spoiled wealthy people, gun-nuts, and proud homosexuals. Savage's investigation takes him around the country and into the lives of people practicing these sins, and as part of his exploration, he engages in each one of them (or at least tries to), and offers up a well-documented, carefully reasoned argument which, if it doesn't encourage the activity, at least defends the right of others to pursue it at their leisure.<br />I can't say enough good things about Dan Savage's writing. In the hands of a less-qualified writer, this book could havebeen a self-indulgent romp, but in Savage's able hands, it's an intelligent defense of the most important right we have:  to be happy, and to do it our own way.	2002-10-16
US	50636515	R3M91FGP3J6R30	074342851X	919430360	Number 6 Fumbles	Books	2	5	8	N	N	Fumbling through Number 6	Sort of a Bridget Jones for the college-age set but without nearly as much humor or any sort of discernable plot.  The narrator, college sophomore Rebecca (Beck) Lowe, sees life differently in the wake of a college football game where a player (Number 6) fumbles the ball and she begins to consider what this must feel like, question all that happens in her life, blah blah blah.  <br />The set-up (that a football play has a marked change on her worldview) is weak and gets lost in the early chapters. Few references to it later don't make it a compelling or believable vehicle for transporting the character through the \\"action\\" of the novel (which mainly consists of the narrator hopping from one bar to another, hoping to meet Mr. Right-give me a break!  At nineteen?)  While this  the night after night drunken quest for connection may a typical feature of college life, it doesn't make this a compelling read, since the narrator is an unoriginal character who lacks Bridget Jones's sass and appeal.<br />Besides lacking any real plot, the novel also lacks suspense, skillful subplotting, and likeable, genuine characters. On top of that, the time and place in which these events are supposed to occur is hopelessly obscure. Pop culture references bounce between what are (probably) the author's memories of the late 80s and early 90s and the present day, which is confusing and ridiculously amateur. <br />In addition, certain scenes exhibit some painfully bad writing. In one, the narrator sits at a restaurant eating French fries, only to be shocked and horrified when a homeless man sits next to her and begins eating the fries.  When he leaves, Beck discovers another container of fries, just to the other side of her, and realizes that she had been eating the homeless man's fries, not the other way around. This is an urban legend, not-s-cleverly transformed for this book (for an example of the urban legend, see the book THE CHOKING DOBERMAN by Jan Harold Brunvand, pages 191-192; the story is about a packet of biscuits, but the events are basically the same).<br />The Publisher's Weekly review was dead on in describing this book as \\"toothless, adolescent fluff,\\" and they're right-even teens will see through this blasé, clichéd novel.  We ALL like suspense, likeable characters, and plots that move somewhere, no matter how old or young we are.	2002-03-12
US	50636515	RWN99JYISBESI	0689840020	533140758	In the Company of Men: A Woman at the Citadel	Books	3	3	6	N	N	A woman's story of life in the Citadel	Nancy Pace, the first female to graduate from The Citadel, the presitigous<BR>military college in South Carolina, tells the story of her experience there<BR>in her new YA memoir, IN THE COMPANY OF MEN: A WOMAN AT THE CITADEL.<BR>Although the writing is passable, it's not top-notch--there's a lot of<BR>&quot;telling&quot; and too little &quot;showing&quot;--and there are some details left out that<BR>might have helped. <br />HOWEVER, I do believe it will have an audience with younger high school<BR>students (and maybe middle schoolers, are though there are a few S and F<BR>words scattered throughout), and I recommend it on this list for that<BR>reason. In the current national climate, there is likely to be more demand<BR>for books about the military and training for it. I think this book is<BR>valuable, especially for teen girls, because it depicts a woman successfully<BR>completing a rigorous, typically male-dominated course of study. In<BR>addition, she has ADD, and triumphs in spite of her troubles with school<BR>work.	2001-10-22
US	50636515	RYC5QUPWIMINL	0385729332	122662979	Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A fresh, funny accomplishment!	If you haven't picked up THE SISTERHOOD OF THE TRAVELING PANTS by Ann Brashares yet, I highly encourage you to do so.  Four best friends are separated for the first summer of their lives--Carmen is going to stay with her dad in South Carolina, Lena is going to visit grandparents in Greece, Bridget is going to an elite soccer camp in Baja, and Tibby is staying home to work at the local &quot;Wallmans&quot; drug store. They are bonded not only by their years of friendship (a friendship that began when their mothers were pregnant with them and in the same pregnancy exercise class), but by a pair of seemingly magical jeans that Carmen bought at a thrift store. Despite the differences in their bodies, the pants fit--and flatter--each of the girls perfectly.  They agree to share the pants over the summer, sending them back and forth along with their letters about their adventures.<br />There were times when the characters seem a little bit too similar and lacking in personality, but as their stories grew, their individuality came through and the stories developed and came to satisfying conclusions--four stories in one, not a bad accomplishment.	2001-10-03
US	50636515	R3JO0S0E9NCIPK	0609807145	471246648	Angelhead: A Memoir	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Unflinching account of schizophrenia	Too often the mentally ill are disregarded or worse, blamed for their condition. Bottoms' description of his brother's descent into madness should cure people of this temptation--it's all too clear that Michael Bottoms insanity was the result of some pre-existing factors over which he had no control--factors that may have begun to manifest themselves in small ways when he was a child (Greg Bottoms writes of his brother's violence as a child as well as his odd alienation).<br />It's truly terrifying to see Michael change from a fairly normal adolescent into a raging, paranoid, delusional teenager, and from there, to an adult incapable of managing reality who holds his family prisoner in his world of madness. Only tragedy can set them free, and that, unfortunately for Michael but perhaps best for his parents and brothers, is what eventually releases them from a disease none of them can handle.<br />I picked this up expecting something lighter, but I was not disappointed by Greg Bottoms' recreation of the horror and sadness his family faced dealing with his brother's schizophrenia. His writing is crystal clear and his story sympathetic without being sentimental.	2001-10-02
US	50636515	R1TAPOXSCGGOPB	0375502351	134571457	The Frailty Myth: Women Approaching Physical Equality	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Inspirational fare for women athletes	Other reviewers on this site have chosen to look at this book from a fairly limited perspective--focusing, for example, on the information about Uta Pippig--rather than on the work as a whole and its implications for women and for everyone; another reviewer has mistakenly suggested that Dowling's intention is to disparage men by suggesting that women are gaining physical strength.<br />Both of these readers/reviewers are mistaken, and have failed to consider The Frailty Myth completely and objectively, which leads to the false suggestion that her work is biased, untrue, and unimportant--this is simply not true. People appear to be threatened by her assertion that women's bodies can--and are--changing through the years, and that women are capable of far greater physical accomplishments than they were in the past, and will, in all likelihood, make ever more gains in the future.<br />Dowling cites research that demonstrates how our society (and other world societies) teaches girls to limit their physical prowess, to question their physical abilities and prowess, and then to fulfill the messages we send them about their supposed &quot;frailty&quot; and &quot;weakness.&quot;  Our culture sends the message, Dowling says, that women OUGHT to be petite, thin, and passive--and that the purpose for this is to be attractive to men. Bulkier women, and women who aggressively pursue physical challenges, are less appealing, we tell our young women. <br />The author is asserting that these messages CAN be changed, and that girls' ideas about what they can accomplish as athletes can have an enormous impact on what they actually accomplish. We can alter the messages we send and the opportunities we provide, and this may enable our young women to develop stronger muscles, more agility, better self-confidence, and the numerous other strengths that accompany physically fit individuals.<br />Dowling is not suggesting that either sex is, or will ever be, superior to the other--simply thatwe owe it to our young women to provide them with the same opportunities and beliefs about physical fitness that we give our boys--and make available the benefits that accompany that fitness.	2001-06-11
US	50636515	RUE9IC6U4YS3H	1579542670	231901051	Another Shot: How I Relived My Life in Less Than a Year	Books	3	3	5	N	N	The big prize, the old car, and the quest for washboard abs.	Kita decides to relive his life by re-confronting experiences in his life that he has regrets about. He tries out for his alma mater's basketball team, tracks down a car he once owned, looks up an old girlfriend, attempts to develop \\"washboard abs\\" and relives a number of other events. Fun, but overly long and self-absorbed at some points (the insights wear out eventually-there's only so much you can say about living your life again...)  Some of the events (winning the big prize at the carnival, for example) I just couldn't relate to. I agree, though, that it did make me think about what I would do again if I could. And how I can avoid making decisions now that I will regret later.	2001-05-15
US	50636515	R3HA62H1BPBUKO	0374399816	506498790	Run If You Dare	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Not as compelling as Powell's previous books	I found it difficult to believe that high school students would be interested in this story, which seems to focus more on Gardner Dickinson's father's mid-life crisis than on the teenager and his struggle to deal with the problems this causes for his family. Although there are some elements that usually draw teen readers in--such as the hint of romance, and Gardner's increasing interest in running--the story didn't suck me in or keep me interested.  It was sort of a depressing look at parental unemployment and mid-life ennui, without any analysis of the effect that has on individual teens. I won't reveal the ending, but I will comment that it seemed unlikely that a high school student would make the choice Gardner did.	2001-05-15
US	50636515	R2UN1J7B4DJJG2	0312200447	798973869	Girls on the Verge: Debutante Dips, Drive-bys, and Other Initiations	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Interesting reading...could have been more insightful	Vida covers some of the major American rituals young women complete on their path maturity, such as sorority rush, debuting, quincinera, and marriage, and some more obscure ones that fewer women participate, such as Wicca and the Burning Man festival in Nevada.<br />Her anecdotes are often well-written and insightful and worth the read--especially the opening chapter about sorority rush, but the analysis of the events and what they mean in terms of coming-of-age for women in America is not as fully developed as it could be.  The chapter on quincinera could have focused on more areas of the country for a broader view of how this ritual affects Hispanic girls, and the chapter on Wicca seems out of place without any comparison/contrast to other, more &quot;traditional&quot; coming-of-age events.  Finally, the chapter on Burning Man, while entertaining, seems completely out of place.<br />Ultimately, each of these topics could have been developed into individual books, and perhaps should have been. As a whole, they provide an introduction--albeit an unsatisfying one--to what seem, on the surface, to be fascinating events.	2001-04-16
US	50636515	R1KLCPVSBF1B6F	0385326505	984560457	Guts : The True Stories Behind Hatchet and the Brian Books	Books	5	2	2	N	N	If You Liked Hatchet...	You must read GUTS, which describes adventures in Gary Paulsen's life that inspired and educated him, making his descriptions of Brian Robeson's experiences in the woods realistic.  Included are the story of how the author was attacked by a moose, how he survived in the woods by hunting with primitive tales, and how he found and cooked food in adverse conditions. Readers who have loved Hatchet for years will appreciate learning the &quot;inside story.&quot;	2001-04-03
US	50636515	RVWXUD6E9WLPI	0375750223	800701418	Love Invents Us	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Fascinating Characters, Elegant Prose	Amy Bloom's stunning writing made what might have been a depressing story a terrific read.  I found her characters not only believable, but sympathetic and fraught with the complicated baggage that makes real people interesting--and at times intolerable, as these characters were. <br />Elizabeth Taube's quest for love begins with the strange fur salesman Mr. Klein and continues through a series of longer-lasting relationships, none of which completely satisfies her--although all of them do, as the title says, invent her. From Mrs. Hill, who teaches her how love through service, to Mr. Stone, her obsessed English teacher, to her parents' disconnected affection, Elizabeth learns about love in the complex forms in which it presents itself to us, and Amy Bloom shows us how Elizabeth learns in elegant prose.	2001-04-03
US	50636515	R3V2GY59KJXYFN	1587430010	568931642	Day of Reckoning: Columbine and the Search for America's Soul	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Different angle on tragedy	Strengths of Zoba's account of the Columbine tragedy are the numerous firsthand accounts of the event from the people who were affected most:  the parents of victims and the friends and classmates of the students who were killed. In addition, the recreation of events at the high school that day from the perspective of students and adults who were involved offers details that are both chilling and powerful. Because of the author's decision to focus on how Christian faith affected the victims, their friends, and their families before and after the killings, she tends to concentrate on the stories of the Christian students and their families and we learn less about the other victims as a result. <br />The heavy focus on the question of whether or not Cassie Bernall said &quot;yes&quot; when asked if she believed in God and was killed as a result detracts from other issues in the story, as does the chapter devoted to the placement and removal of the 15 memorial crosses.  Although these are part of the Christian angle the author is taking in examining the tragedy, they failed to convince this reader that this was a story about the loss of soul in America--the problem that resulted in the Columbine tragedy can hardly be simplified to just a loss or lack of faith in the killers or their community.<br />Non-Christian reades like myself may be put off by the point of view the author takes, but there is much to discuss and learn from the book, particularly in the portions where Zoba attends to the other issues--such as the culture that produces kids who kill and the actions of law enforcement officials on the day of the shooting. As more is written about the Columbine tragedy, this book will offer a useful alternative perspective that is likely to be ignored in mainstream publications and media.	2001-03-06
US	50636515	R3DRI5IUXMX4Y2	0312269234	990948943	Feeling Sorry for Celia: A Novel	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Dear Reader, You Will Enjoy This Book	If you are a fan of books like Angus, Thongs, and Full-Frontal Snogging, this similarly told tale will appeal to you. Presented through a series of letters to a from her best friend, her mother, and a new pen pal from a nearby school, this is a light, funny story about Elizabeth Clarry, who lives with her mother and endures visits from her father.  Her best friend, Celia, pulls frequent disappearing acts, engaging in all sorts of bizarre adventures; her mother recruits her help in thinking up slogans for odd products, school seems pointless, and her gorgeous crush seems to have fallen for a most inconvenient--and unfair--other woman.<br />Her letters to her new pen pal, Christina, reveal her troubles in a lighthearted way, and the story is never a serious examination of teenage angst, but it is fun nonetheless. Some of the letters seemed forced--action that &quot;showed&quot; the story rather than &quot;told&quot; it would have worked better; it's hard to believe that a character would communicate with her mother only through letters when they live in the same house. The strange letters from various societies--the Society of Best Friends, the Society of Teenagers, etc. are clever. Many of the plot twists are implausible, and the &quot;mystery&quot; surrounding her father's behavior is fairly predictable, but I had a lot of fun enjoyed the story and recommend it to readers looking for light reads similar to Angus, Thongs...by Louise Rennison; Truth or Dairy by Catherine Clark or even Bridget Joneses' Diary by Helen Fielding.	2001-03-04
US	50636515	R23C90GDQE1P2C	0743407865	362999147	Brave New Girl	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Another One for the Go Ask Alice Crowd	Doreen is a high school freshman whose primary friendship is with her skateboarding pal, Ted, who like Doreen, is struggling with some problems at home. In Ted's case, an alcoholic mother who seems to get drunk and pass out at the most invconvenient times interferes with his happiness. For Doreen, her parents seem less-than-warm and overly strict; her older brother, Henry, has been long-absent (kicked out by her parents, Doreen believes) and her older sister, Tracey, is more concerned with looking cool than being a buddy to her younger sibling. When Tracey begins to bring home 21 year old Matthew, Doreen quickly develops a crush on him, but what seems like his mutual attraction for her soon reveals a more sinister side.<br />The jaded, slacker, disaffected youth voice may be wearing thin for some of us (it is a little bit for me), but readers who like Go Ask Alice, The Perks of Being a Wallflower, and similarly toned stories will love this book. If you've ever faced rejection at the hands of the popular crowd, thought your parents were dorks, and longed for understanding, you'll find a soulmate in Louisa Luna's heroine.	2001-02-13
US	50636515	R2X3RXOJB30YSQ	0252024249	52266775	The Truth Never Stands in Way of a Good Story	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Scholarly, detailed approach off-putting	Unlike Bunvand's other collections of urban legends, this book, as several other reviewers have noted, in more textbook-like in its approach, with chapters that trace the author's research about major urban legends and their potential origins rather than a wide variety of legends and analysis of those stories.  This book may appeal to some hardcore urban legend-ologists, but I found some chapters tedious. I think some strenuous editing could have eliminated what felt like a lot of fact-checking and superfluous detail and still made a convincing case for Brunvand and the thouroughness of his research. I missed his humor and the lighter tone of the previous book.	2000-12-12
US	50636515	R9XKU1NM5GTL1	0345426320	857968327	Where Trouble Sleeps (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Humorous scenes illuminate small town story	Of all of Edgerton's novels I've read so far, this was my least favorite, although there are portions that entertained me. In small town Listre in the 50's, 7 year old Stephen's life is unremarkable except for occasional oddities, such as his mother taking him and a friend to see the electric chair (for a deterrent) and the arrival of the mysterious &quot;gypsy man,&quot; Delbert Jones (re name:  Jack Umbaugh) whose slealth gets him into town but can't get him out.<br />Edgerton's live reading from this book was the most entertaining author reading I have been lucky enough to attend--he read in character, played the banjo, and made the scenes he presented come to life. I was a bit disappointed that the whole novel didn't live up to the promise of the portions he shared aloud.<br />For a better sample of his work, read Walking Across Egypt, Raney, and The Floatplane Notebooks.	2000-12-08
US	50636515	R22XN0I2I87L04	052594561X	859921654	The Sex Lives of Teenagers: Revealing the Secret World of Adolescent Boys and Girls	Books	3	19	22	N	N	Unusual case studies illustrate exceptions	Although there is much of value to be gained from this book, including the list of suggestions for parents and teens at the end, the majority of the case studies presented are unlikely to serve the needs of most readers, as they illustrate unusual situations rather than common problems teens and their parents might face in communicating about sex. One presents a boy who has been caught masturbating with a vacuum cleaner, another a girl who faints when she has sexual fantasies, and others offer equally odd examples of the issues faced by teens as they struggle with burgeoning sexuality.<br />In addition, the author's psychoanalytic approach to counseling is off-putting to readers unfamiliar with the methodology and philosophy, and her references to dream analysis and like-minded Freudian therapies might not appeal to all readers, especially those looking for workable solutions to their own problems. Most parents are not going to have the time and finances to acquire psychiatric advice for their teens, and many of the author's approaches to dealing with teen sexuality offer this limited example of how it can be handled.<br />Furthermore, the examples of her therapy sessions with teens and the recreation of their dialogues often seem a little self-serving, presenting her psychiatric talents in a semi-self-congratulatory way.<br />Finally, there are many questions left unresolved. The chapter on masturbation does not offer many ideas for teens and their parents to communicate or deal with the issue, and the author herself seems undecided about how to counsel her clients and readers about this sensitive issue.  <br />My suggestion:  read the lists of ideas she offers in the back and skip the rest.	2000-11-30
US	50636515	R3PO64C0B7FYY6	0670891223	86018573	Dreamland	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Thought-provoking novel about dating violence	After her apparently perfect older sister Cass runs away with her boyfriend instead of attending Yale, Caitlin is left struggling with her feelings of abandonement and loneliness, especially as her parents focus on trying to persuade Cass to rejoin their lives.<br />Sinking into loneliness as she endures cheerleading season--which she tried out for without real enthusiasm, Caitline grows more and more attracted to Rogerson, a mysterious, sleepy-eyed student at a local private school--a BMW driver who rarely seems to attend school and yet is extremely intelligent.<br />As their relationship grows increasingly intimate, Caitlin learns secrets about Rogerson--about his family life, his source of money, and about his violent temper. Soon she begins hiding bruises on her arms and legs with long sleeves and pants, and lying about various injuries. All the while, she debates with herself:  to stay with Rogerson and gain a sense of belonging and companionship, or leave him and admit to everyone what has been happening.<br />As with her other novels, Sarah Dessen captures the teenager's voice well, and sees inside their world with a keen eye. If this story lacks for anything, it's dialogue and a sense of &quot;show&quot; rather than &quot;tell.&quot; I felt that too many large periods of time were summarized by the narrator, and that the novel and our understanding of Rogerson and Caitlin's parents, especially, would've been strengthened by scenes that showed them independently of Caitlin's perspective.   Nevertheless, an engaging story with much worthy of discussion.	2000-11-14
US	50636515	R66LD2L8L7H7T	0380978482	287069968	The Princess Diaries (The Princess Diaries, Vol. 1)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Quirky fun	Teens will enjoy this story about high school freshman Mia Thermopolos, who learns that her father is the prince of the small country of Genovia, and that she is the only heir to the throne. Her horror at learning this is magnified when she discovers that her dowager grandmother will be giving her lessons in how to behave royally.<br />While the teen slangy-ness and light tone may be off-putting to some adults and mature teens, the plot moves along quickly, and the diary format will keep readers hooked. Subplots are minimal and the boy-girl situations are easy to predict, but Mia's sense of humor and quirky determination to keep her royal status hidden will endear her to most young adult readers.	2000-10-04
US	50636515	R2PID06JN212IK	0446526835	554545837	Counting Coup: A True Story of Basketball and Honor on the Little Big Horn	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A Lesson in Hope	In the tradition of Madeleine Blais (IN THESE GIRLS, HOPE IS A MUSCLE) and H.G. Bissinger (FRIDAY NIGHT LIGHTS), Larry Colton spends a season living in Hardin, Montana, studying the lives of the girls' basketball team and the members of the Crow Indian tribe who are members. In particular, he focuses on the team's leading player, senior Sharon Laforge, whose talent seems to insure that she will escape the generational poverty and cycle of alcoholism that plague her family and other members of the tribe. As we learn, however, talent guarantees nothing.<br />As the Hardin High Lady Bulldogs head for the state playoffs, Colton spends more and more time with the members of the team, and with Sharon Laforge and her family in particular. He watches with increasing concern as she battles with an alcoholic mother, a permissive aunt and grandmother, and as she becomes more and more involved with an emotionally distant, physically abusive boyfriend.<br />Colton's account of his season with the team and their families creates an indelible image of life on the reservation with its infighting and politics, tragedies and traditions. I found myself rooting for Sharon Laforge and hoping desperately that she would use her talents to escape what seemed like an inevitably bleak future.  The cycle of poverty, abuse, and family control are powerful opponents however, and there is little hope that Laforge will lead a life much different than her elders.<br />The story of the team's season, with its suspensfully written scenes of the basketball action, will keep readers hooked to the page, as will the ongoing dramas on the reservation and the tension between whites and tribal members. I understood much more thoroughly the cycle of abuse, poverty, and alcoholism after reading this book. I learned a great deal about dreams and about hope, too.	2000-09-29
US	50636515	R3TMO6FEKSVC6W	0688165176	209651321	Video	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Wanted to like it more than I did	I wanted to like Video more than I did.  Initially, the plot sounded intriguing:  an 8th grade teacher assigns his students the project of observing another person in order to hone their skills as observers (for science and writing, I think).  Eric is assigned to observe Janine Gagnon, a peer with an attitude problem. Janine can't choose anyone worth observing (in her opinion) so she chooses herself as the focus of her studies.<br />Eventually, Eric come across information about Janine that may account for her attitude and her anti-social behavior, which is driving away her friends. He sets out to do something with he information he has found.<br />The plot was not as compelling as I had hoped, and the subplots, such as they were, confused the issue and did not seem to enhance the main storyline. Janine was such an unlikeable character that I wasn't interested in seeing her problem solved. The alternating points of view, including some confusing third person portions at the beginnings of the chapters, made the story more confusing.  I loved The Beetle and Me, the author's previous book, and recommend it highly. This one, however, is less appealing.	2000-09-20
US	50636515	R36OOGPJL78FKI	1565122704	496986997	Rescuing Jeffrey	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Remarkably moving; unforgettable	On July 4, 1998, 17-year-old Jeffrey Galli dove into a swimming pool. When he didn't emerge, his friends ran for help, and Jeffrey's mother and father pulled him from the pool and saved his life; subsequently they learn that he has been paralyzed from the neck down and will spend his life dependent on a ventilator for his breathing.<br />In this memoir of the first ten days of Jeffrey's accident and hospitalization, his father recreates the immense sadness, the horror, and the gut-wrenching decisions that his family faced. Chief among these was his own conviction that the most humane choice they could make was to turn off the ventilator and let Jeffery die in order to spare him a life robbed of any independent physical activity and without the potential to pursue their vision of a happy life.  When Jeffrey awakes and is able to communicate--and has no brain damage--they rethink their decision and recognize there is more to being alive than having a body.<br />The family's struggle to decide on the best course of action for their son is the main focus of this book, and is presented so well that the reader feels the anguish of this horrible choice:  to determine whether to keep your child alive, knowing that he will live completely wheelchair bound and dependent on others for the most basic care, or elect to let him die and live with that decision for life (and face the possibility that in the future a cure will be discovered).<br />Perhaps the most moving sections were when Jeffrey awoke each day and had to face his paralysis anew--his father there to explain to him time and again the circumstances and consequences of the accident. An incredibly moving read about parenthood and life--I dare you to read it without crying.	2000-09-20
US	50636515	R383VW4EQ3W8DK	0385326475	52701382	The Beet Fields: Memories of a Sixteenth Summer	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A memorable memoir	Gary Paulsen's latest installment in his collection of memoirs is a glimpse into his sixteenth summer, when he left his drunken parents to  pursue life on his own. He takes work as a laborer in the beet fields,  where he befriends Mexican workers and learns to hunt pigeons with his bare  hands, and later does farm work, joins the crew of a traveling carnival,  and learns about lust and love from an older, much more experienced  woman.<br />While this isn't a book for younger readers, it will most  definitely find an audience with teenagers who are familiar with Paulsen's  writing and yearn to know more about his hardships and adventures when he  was their age. Readers who enjoyed Hatchet and its sequels will find that  the details of Brian's survival in the wilderness find an equally appealing  match in the stories of Paulsen's own survival on the road in The Beet  Fields.	2000-09-19
US	50636515	R182LKUI3X8IME	0380814439	408498047	Truth or Dairy	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Fun story for diary lovers	Another diary that will remind readers of Bridget Jones's Diary, although the narrator of this one, high school senior Courtney Smith, is less obsessed with weight and finding a man (although her relationships with various men play a large part in the story).  Just before senior year  begins, Courtney's boyfriend Dave breaks up  with her. He's leaving for  college in a nearby town, and thinks they need the space. Like most of the  other problems in the story, this is treated lightly and with humor,  although Courtney expresses her frustration with Dave and vows not to date  again that year. Her plan is foiled by Dave's friend, Grant, who is a  senior like Courtney, and who makes his interest in her clear almost as  soon as Dave leaves. In addition, Courtney wins the position of ASB  vice-president alongside a notorious womanizer, Tom Delaney, and struggles  with his attitude and treatment of girls. Other complexities in the story  involve her best friend's secret romance, her mother's ongoing battle with  the phone company, her effort to maintain vegetarianism, and her father's  new marriage and step-grandchild. Many more serious novels would crumble  under the weight of so many issues, but in Truth or Dairy they become a  source of humor. As with Bridget Jones's life, Courtney's is full of goofy  misadventures and misunderstandings, and the occasional slapstick  situation, and she generally pulls through without much damage. The story  doesn't have any profound insights into the human condition, and the light,  almost immature voice might not appeal to more mature readers, but in  general, the plot is compelling and the story fun, with an ending that  leaves open the possibility of a sequel.	2000-05-31
US	50636515	R3SURQ8GT4N4MJ	0590897985	603078590	The Music of Dolphins	Books	5	9	9	N	N	An unusual, fascinating story	A young girl is discovered swimming in the waters between Florida and Cuba, and when researchers bring her in, they learn that she has been living with dolphins, basically raised by them and taught to communicate  and survive in their world. In the laboratory, where they attempt to teach  her human speech and behavior, this girl they've named Mila makes slow  progress, and eventually she must choose between living in their world and  living in the one she has known for most of her life.  This unusual,  fascinating story is made even more so by the fact that it is told by Mila,  and like Flowers for Algernon, we see her speech and behavior slowly  improve as the story is told, and then decline as she realizes that she  would rather live among the dolphins than with humans.  An intriguing  book that will appeal to anyone interested in psychology, especially the  psychology of language acquisition and the stories of historical figures  such as the Wild Boy of Averon and Genie.	2000-05-19
US	50636515	R161C8U0KSHUAZ	0060284544	496645228	Homeless Bird	Books	4	20	23	N	N	Simple, moving story	Koly, a 13 year old Indian girl with a gift for embroidery, is forced into an arranged marriage by her parents. When she arrives at her new husband's house to live, however, she learns that he is a sick boy, and that his  parents chose her as his bride only in order to use the dowry money to  transport their son to the healing waters of a sacred river.  When he dies  and she is left with her in-laws, Koly begins to yearn for her own life,  and only because of her stepmother's cruely is she able to escape tradition  and pursue her own dreams. As a high school librarian, I may struggle to  find readers for this story, which is rather simple and lacking in the  tension and subplotting that often makes for rich, mature reading. However,  the theme of escaping and following one's own dreams may appeal to some  students, and as always, relationships in other cultures often interest  young adult readers.	2000-05-19
US	50636515	R3DDOBZ78U7V76	0689824688	364374419	When Kambia Elaine Flew in from Neptune	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Satisfying story; exquisite writing	Kambia begins telling bizarre stories almost as soon as shemoves into Shayla's neighborhood, and at first Shayla thinks hernew friend is just imaginative, like she is. Eventually, though, she begins to suspect Kambia is using her stories to hide something. First, there is her mother, who, according to neighborhood gossip, is entertaining men for money in her house; then there is Kambia's ever-worsening appearance: she is getting skinnier and skinnier, and Shayla notices bruises on her thighs. Kambia won't admit anything, though; all she does is tell Shayla a story about \\"Wallpaper Wolves\\" that can't get her if she's too skinny. But when Kambia collapses on the way to school one day, Shayla realizes she has to choose between protecting her friend's secrets and saving her life.  In addition to Kambia's problems, Shayla's older sister, Tia, has been caught messing around with Doo-witty, an older neighborhood boy who is assumed by everyone to be a complete idiot, and she disappears after a fight with her mother, adding to Shayla's worries. On top of that, Shayla's family plagued by the reappearance of her father, Mr. Anderson Fox, who has a lot of other Shaylas running around the neighborhood. The climax arrives after Shayla is taken to a mother-daughter church revival by her mother and grandmother, where they find out a secret about Doo-witty and Shayla learns the truth about her sister's disappearance.  Shayla's voice is reminicent of Scout Finch To Kill a Mockingbird: young, wise, funny, and sensitive; and her story is compelling and skillfully rendered. Readers will be easily drawn into her life and her story. A highly recommended, thoughtful read by a talented new young adult author.	2000-05-19
US	50636515	RDONXI6TN5T6K	0684845989	858012267	The Anatomy of Motive: The FBI's Legendary Mindhunter Explores the Key to Understanding and Catching Violent Criminals	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Spooky, fascinating book	The latest in a collection of books by the two authors, in which they use real crimes to illustrate the methods used by FBI &quot;mindhunters&quot; to profile likely suspects. Fascinating stories with details about the  crimes and the clues will appeal to many readers, especially those  intrigued by the psychology behind criminal behavior. In addition, the  suspenseful manner in which the crimes are detailed by the authors makes  this book a page turner. Focusing on specific types of crimes, the authors  explain how serial killers, assassins, poisoners, bombers, and arsonists,  among others, are identified. Included in this collection are several  stories about incidents in the Pacific Northwest, including a serial  arsonist operating in and around Lynnwood and Seattle, and a poisoner who  used the Tylenol murders as a model for murdering her husband. Spooky,  insightful, and impossible to put down. This was the first of the  Olshaker/Douglas books I read, and I immediately followed up with the  others (I had to sleep with the lights on for a couple of weeks!)	2000-05-19
US	50636515	R3AYS8KOML71DC	0684857820	784206304	Lucky	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Triumphant	In 1980, as a college freshman at Syracuse University, Alice Sebold was brutally raped as she walked home through a park one night, and the event profoundly marked her life from then on. In this powerful memoir, at times  shocking and other times humorous, Sebold recreates the event that scarred  her life in grim detail, and recalls the decision she made to find and  pursue the conviction of her attacker.  With the help of her poetry  professor Tess Gallagher and fiction prof Tobias Wolff, she was able to  identify the man who robbed her of her virginity and left her physically  and emotionally damaged, and to testify at the trial that sent him to  prison. The opening chapter, in which the author details the brutal attack  on her, left me crying, and the remaining chapters read like a gripping  suspense novel and a triumphant account of justice.  A powerful, moving  read.	2000-05-19
US	50636515	R23UF54H9CXGT2	0763606804	497318727	Burger Wuss	Books	2	2	5	N	N	Silly and simple	Anthony takes a job at O'Dermott's fast food restaurant for one reason only:  to gain revenge on fellow employee Turner, who stole his girlfriend.  In a convoluted, goofy series of events, Anthony engages his  anti-corporate co-worker, Shunt, and his two love-crazy friends, Rick and  Jennifer. Together, they hatch a plot to frame Turner for the theft of a  rival restaurant's condiment troll and humiliate him in front of everyone.   This novel may appeal to some readers because of its fast-paced plot and  humor, but I thought it was uninspired and boring.  Although the writer has  some moments of voice and a few clever ideas, the plot is rather thin, and  the complete lack of seriousness makes the characters seem unrealistic and  difficult to believe. Too many bathroom joke add ot the gross-out factor  and make the story even harder to respect. Low-level high school readers  and perhaps middle-schoolers will find this novel entertaining.	2000-05-19
US	50636515	RFF8AULKUDCNA	0688156916	672598033	Burning Girl	Books	1	1	2	N	N	Affected and tiring	Drew, a college student, is taken in by his wealthy friend,Bahar, who introduces him to her brother, Jake, and encourages anaffair between the two. Despite his attraction for Jake, Drew becomes disturbed as he learns that Jake and his sister may have been party to the death of another girl when they were in high school. The more he investigates, the more Jake seems to want him to know about the brutal rape and stabbing.  This novel bored me. The dialogue tried too hard to be hip, and while it might appeal to twentysomethings, I found it affected and tiring, soon to be dated. In addition, most of the novel occurs in dialogue, and the combination of that and the almost non-stop references to songs leads me to suspect this is a novel bent on trying to be sold someday as a screenplay.  I can only hope it makes a better movie than a book, and that the characters are given more depth and their actions fuller explanation.	2000-05-15
US	50636515	R3GV3L0LYMYZ2O	015600710X	403499621	Strange Fits of Passion: A Novel	Books	5	111	115	N	N	Suspenseful and gripping	Fans of Shreve's other novels, including The Pilot's Wife and The Weight of Water, will appreciate this earlier effort, which, like the others, combines mystery and marriage to create a suspenseful, intriguing story  about trouble.   Like Anna Quindlen's novel, Black and Blue, Strange  Fits of Passion revolves around a young mother who has taken her child and  fled an abusive husband to settle in a new community and begin life again  under an assumed name.  The similarities end there, however, as Shreve  builds a more complex, thickly layered story that involves numerous points  of view and dips in and out of the past without ever becoming confusing or  dense.   The novel begins with a magazine writer, Helen Scofield,  traveling to a college dormitory to visit Caroline English, the daughter of  writer Maureen English, a woman who, we soon learn, was imprisoned for  murdering her allegedley abusive husband, Harrold, also a writer, many  years earlier. Helen's visit is, ostensibly, to deliver to Caroline the  letters and transcripts that she collected as she investigated the murder  for an article she was writing.   We read of the relationship between  Maureen English and her husband from her own point of view--reports of the  abuse she suffered, the life she led in the small Maine fishing village to  which she fled, and, later, the details of the event that took her  husband's life. Interspersed with her memories are the reports from various  members of the fishing community she lived in--people who variously report  on Maureen and her life there, and who hold her responsible for the crime  to varying degrees.   Finally, we read the article Helen wrote about  Maureen English, her marriage, and her decision to kill her husband, and  learn an entirely other lesson about what the truth is and what it means to  tell the truth. This is a fascinating, engrossing story.	2000-05-15
US	50636515	R1HFVF352R5G8A	0553564560	123927775	The Pigman and Me (Bantam Starfire Books)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	The REAL Pigman-Revealed!	Readers of Paul Zindel's young adult novels, especially The Pigman, will enjoy reading about the difficulties he and his sister endured growing up with a single mother in New Jersey in the 40's and 50's. After his mother  takes in a roommate with 2 young sons, Zindel is exposed to the boys'  grandfather, who becomes a surrogate father, a grown-up playmate, an  inspiration, and a support to him as he struggles with his coming of age,  his mother's strange schemes, and his own insecurities. As he shares his  adventures with his pigman, Nonno Frankie, and his best friend, Jennifer,  Zindel reveals the source of his humor and the basis for many of his  stories and characters. Younger readers will find his light touch and  reslience in dealing with difficulty a source of strength. A great  introduction to this author and to the memoir genre.	2000-05-01
US	50636515	R3WN4QV5CK9FX	037570731X	22798973	The Ladies' Man	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A fun, light farce	Once again, Elinor Lipman has created a funny, light story about women--in this case, three sisters whose lives are disrupted when the ex-fiance returns thirty years after abandoning Adele, the eldest. Lipman has created a thoroughly believable--and detestable--anti-hero in Nash Harvey/Harvey  Nash, a rogue who sponges off women and never seems to understand that he  is not nearly as charming as he thinks he is. Readers who enjoy peering  into the private lives of mature women will appreciate the sisters'  struggles to deal with Nash and with their own middle-of-life romances and  lack thereof.  Real, fully developed characters and a speedy plot make this  a read-in-a-sitting romantic comedy.	2000-04-26
