US	50645617	R2G7A3Q9WNUEU1	0151008116	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	5	9	10	N	N	I Will Survive or the New Book of Job	One character of the book says that the novel is a 'story that will make you believe in God'. From my point of view this is a genuine statement but not a plain one. Ages and ages ago the biblical Book of Job formulated one of the most complex problem of human life - sufferings of a righteous man, and best writers and philosophers of all times and countries have tried to solve (or at least explain) it since - W.Shakespeare, F.Dostoevsky, C.S.Lewis and S.Kierkegaard, to name only the most outstanding figures among many others. Afflictions of sinful man often lead him to God but tribulations of right man can lead in both directions - to denial (F.Nitzsche) or to strengthening of faith (Job and Pi).<br />The first part of the novel is a story of befores and afters of hero's ordeal: a good-humor version of Pi's life in India at a place that really was a zoo, of his spiritual search for true faith (he attracts 'religions the way a dog attracts fleas'), printed in normal type, is mixed with flashes of his present life in Canada, printed in italics. Narratives in both sections are meaningly placid save some inklings (e.g., 'The evil in the open is but evil from within that has been let out. The main battlefield for good is not the open ground of public arena but the small clearing of each heart', an allusion to well-known Dostoevsky's opinion) . The second part of the novel is a between, a description of the ordeal - a shipwreck and 227-days trek in the Pacific Ocean that change Pi's life profoundly and forever. It is a wonderful story about a human being and a beast that found themselves in one lifeboat and are forced to live together. But some fantastic elements in description of event (especially the island of algae) disturb our understanding and generate additional questions.<br />The third part of the novel, its pinnacle and clue to understanding, gives a true perspective of the events. The shortest part of the novel, it is a recorded interrogation of Pi concerning thecauses of the shipwreck. Be not deceived: masterly constructed dialogue will provoke smiles (especially in English interpretation of its Japanese parts) but eight pages of Pi's alternative story will harrow your soul and force you to think about this book long after you have read the last page. The young pious and righteous man does not pass his ocean ordeal but his faith gives him power not to sink in quagmire of despair and ruin his life. Like biblical Isaac in Soren Kierkegaard's interpretation ('Fear and Trembling') Pi lives nearly in silence, studying theology (and zoology), taking care of his new family and pets and trying to understand God's will and voluntarily accept it. <br />Several words about novel's ordonnance. The structure of Yann Martel's book is exquisite: the author uses 'story inside story' technique which was so effectively used recently by best writers  ('The Blind Assassin' by M.Atwood and 'Atonement' by I.McEwan are the most prominent examples).  It gives possibility to give the plot bolt-from-the-blue quality comparable only with psycological thriller.<br />'Life of Pi' by Yann Martel, the winner of the Man Booker Prize 2002, is one of the best novels I've read in the last three years, an absolutely must-read.	2003-02-03
US	50645617	R2H5X7MWEAE255	0375507264	700141431	Number9Dream	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The Kaleidoscope of the Life	David Mitchell's second novel tells us a story of a young Japanese man Eiji Miyake who arrives in modern megapolitan Tokyo in search of his father who repudiated him long ago. That forms an outline of the book which consists of nine parts. The structure of the novel and some of its plotlines are similar to the ones of the author's first novel \\"Ghostwritten\\": every part has certain degree of independence (even linguistic) but the plot of the second novel is undoubtedly more coherent and harmonious than of the first one.<br />Nine different parts of \\"number9dream\\" are like disparate edges of the human life in the modern world, they supersede one another: a mixture of sci-fi story with hero's vindictive dreams, sentimental flashbacks of hero's early life with his late beloved twin sister, a dive into erotical nightlife of the modern megapolis, a Yakuza story, a dystopian fantasy with excellent verbal tightrope-walking (which, I believe, played a substantial role in novel's shortlisting for the Booker Prize 2001), meditation about recent Japanese history and meaning of human existence, reiteration of some previous elements with noticeable mob tints, an apokalyptic denouement designed as a secession of dreams, and - silence. Having in mind such genre and wordy diversity every reader can find in the novel something to enjoy or ponder over (personally I prefer Goatwriter's language-twisting Study of Tales and historico-philosophical Kai Ten). Though the book consists of such different parts, it has sufficiently strict plot which joins the kaleidoscope of its separate parts in a kind of bildungsroman, the author of which tries to put eternal questions of human existence using postmodern literary gamut of the 21st century.<br />Yet the book has some weak points. First, the main love story of the novel is a vapid replica of the brilliant Tokyo chapter of author'r first novel. Second, both novels have one visible flaw - they lack powerful (or even proper) ending. I sincerely hope the next David Mitchell's novel will surmount these literary omissions.	2002-04-18
US	50645617	RKXPKY8OXA0WA	0571204295	192619004	The Trick of It	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Envy as Self-destruction	Written in a form of protagonist's letters to his Australian friend, the novel is an subtle and psychologically exact depiction of moral degradation of an ordinary man (not a bad or evil one in his essence but somewhat bilious and self-absorbed) afflicted with envy. He has received a windfall of love, goodness and generosity, but being unable to surmount personal jealosity he loses respect of his colleagues and even his job itself and turns a sting of his malice against his wife and only friend until this destruction becomes his self-destruction.<br />An excellent reading: exquisite form, rich language and characters that remain in memory.	2001-07-19
US	50645617	R2AH8VCQ5NQEGI	0684865114	239727018	The Restraint of Beasts	Books	2	0	1	N	N	The Restraint of Readers	This is a story of three men who built high-tension fences for the restraint of beasts but found themselves under the restraint in the end. Editorial review speaks about black humor and promises that &quot;readers will remember this book and laugh, long after they have finished reading it&quot;. Some events of the novel are rather black but it is a real slog to find any humor and I do not even smile during reading. The heroes are unattractive, the plot is predictable, the language is poor with perpetual insipid 'alright' and f-words.The real bolt from the blue is that the book was shortlisted for the Booker Prize.	2001-07-17
US	50645617	R2BHBUXJ4N2BZ1	1885983395	873523784	The Deposition of Father McGreevy	Books	4	3	5	N	N	History of the Decline and Fall of the Irish Village	The main part of the book is a history of decline of a remote Irish village told by its old priest Fr McGreevy. Set in the early 1940s, the story develops against a background of Nazi aggression in Europe. Strange illness, gossips and mutual lack of understanding ruin the small mountain village and its not numerous dwellers. Outwardly potent civilization of the town destroys outwardly primitive culture of the village; at the same time outwardly powerful Juggernaut of the Third Reich smites &quot;rotten&quot; Western democracies and &quot;uncivilized&quot; Soviet Russia. In both cases the victory of predominant power seems unevitable. Sad is the end of the priest's story but not the end of the book: patriotic wrath of the &quot;primitive&quot; Russian people crashed the fascist war machine and the last pages of the novel tell us about immortality of genuine culture in beautiful images of Muiris' dream and the abandoned mountain village.	2001-07-13
US	50645617	R9A6663MWEFIO	0684802961	514615417	The Riders	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Love as Obsession, Love as Salvation	Tim Winton's novel &quot;The Riders&quot;, a Booker Prize nominee, is a story about love. About different kinds of love, to be precise.<br />Jennifer, a shadow figure, a mysterious woman with excellent legs and distorted self-esteem, abandons her unhomely but affectionate husband Scully and seven-year old daughter Billie. The novel is a story of father-and-daughter travel across Europe in search of their lost wife and mother.<br />Scully's love to his runaway wife becomes an obsession, a kind of madness that is ready to crash and mutilate everything and everyone, including himself and his dear daughter. It increases with his inquiries at the places which he thought to be niches of mutual love and tenderness but turned out to be hideouts of disenchantment and infidelity.<br />Scully couldn't overtake the eluding apparition of former passion but he could be rescued by other love that was always near, love of his daughter. 'Love was all you had in the end. It was like sleep, like clear water. When you fell off the world there was still love because love made the world. That's what she (i.e., Billie) believed. That's how it was.' This is not the difference between sexual and asexual love that makes sense but the difference between love as obsession and love as salvation. And it was necessary for Scully to walk a long and winding road of personal painful experience to reach the simple truth.	2001-07-06
US	50645617	R13RYO8U6Y4ZDW	0375410546	388721998	When We Were Orphans	Books	5	15	17	N	N	The Nightmare of the Real Life	The new novel of Kazuo Ishiguro is a story of a famous English detective Christopher Banks who tries to solve the mysterious disappearance of his parents which took place when he was only ten years old. But anyone who recognizes this book as a whodunit will be inevitably disappointed: for a real crime story the book is &quot;full of implausible developments, improbable coincidences and loose ends&quot; (as it was written by one of the previous reviewers).<br />The novel is not an objective account of events but rather a subjective perception of them by the protagonist haunted by the tragical experience of his childhood. The author attains genuine perfection in depiction of the inner life of his hero, starting with excellent flashbacks in the first half of the novel (the scenes of Christopher's childhood in colonial Shanghai, his relations with parents and his best friend Akiro), crossing the boundaries of reality somewhere in the middle of the novel, and submerging us in Kafkaesque universe of disturbed mind with psychoanalytical allusions in the last half of the novel (the house that is near but couldn't be reached, everlasting way in ruins, a Japanese soldier who is and simultaneously is not Christopher's former friend Akiro, etc.).<br />Little by little we commence to discern distinctly the main incentive of Christopher's deeds: the one who once was an orphan is desperately trying to save the whole world from impending catastrophe of the new war with the help of his magnifying glass, sacrificing everything even his only love to Sarah. Banks speaks about the fear that torments him only cursorily, but it was verbally expressed by the Japanese soldier/Akiro in distorted English that makes it more universally perceptible: 'When my boy. He discover world is not good. I wish... I wish I with him. To help him. When he discover' (chapter 20). <br />The events of the penultimate chapter, the awful confession  give the clue to the mystery reestablishing necessary degree ofnarrator's impartiality. The last chapter crosses the gap of 20+ years giving the final touches to the story. The protagonist surmount his fears, his life is well-ordered. Sarah is dead. He is lonesome as are both women he takes care of. Now his thoughts are coherent... but trite.<br />The excellent novel, justly shortlisted for the Bookers Prize 2000! (though it doesn't surpass Ishiguro's masterpiece 'The Remains of the Day').	2001-07-05
US	50645617	R2ZH3JITALISQM	0684873893	65279771	The Blackwater Lightship : A Novel	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Of Human Tolerance	This is not a gay novel though half of its main characters are homosexuals and they are undoubtedly more attractive than the other half. This is not a straight book though it contains some standard elements, such as a gay hero dying from AIDS. This is an universal novel about human tolerance and mutual understanding. Those who have seen in their lives enstrangement, disdain and intolerance can better understand other's pain and despair and are able to help even at death's door.<br />Author's optimistic position expressed in the book is worthwhile but his literary skill yields to marvellous power of his 1999 Booker Prize's rival J.M.Coetzee with his brilliant saga of universal pessimism.	2000-12-06
US	50645617	R3TLJSYG5W8FRH	1567920969	417648554	The Newton Letter	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Rudiments of new hope	An historian, on the verge of nervous and mental breakdown, is trying to complete a book on Isaac Newton in a rented cottage in Southern Ireland. The fact and circumstances of Newton's mental collapse of 1693 give him possibility to discern the vacuity of his personal psychological hellhole and urge him into interlacing of real and fictitious love affairs that lead through nothingness to rudiments of new hope and understanding. <br />The language of the book, its pseudo-Gothic shades of mystery and psychological descriptions of the heroes are excellent. But the plot is rather weak in comparison with such masterpieces as 'Flaubert's Parrot' by Julian Barnes or 'Headlong' by Michael Frayn written in the similar manner.	2000-12-04
US	50645617	RRPJM9EI5K243	0679731369	62087535	Flaubert's Parrot	Books	5	7	9	N	N	In Search of Unfathomable Truth	At the first sight this book is a story of an elderly English doctor Geoffrey Braithwaite who tries to reconstruct the life of the great French writer Gustave Flaubert in order to understand him. Those who love Flaubert will find in this wonderful novel a lot of interesting and amazing facts and details that could help them in better comprehension of their favorite writer's oeuvre. But this is only a top layer of the narrative. Dr Braithwaite really wants to solve the mystery of his beloved but unfaithful wife's suicide, using Flaubert's life as his own image in the psychological mirror of humanity (Gustave Fraubert, c'est moi?). But the truth of both Flaubert's life and his wife's suicide is unfathomable as the human life and death themselves. So everyone can claim the possession of truth, but only a personal truth, not the universal one. Just like both stuffed parrots (or even all 50 stuffed birds mentioned in the novel) could be the sought Flaubert's parrot which inspired him to write 'Un coeur simple'.<br />It is my first novel by Julian Barns but its excellent language and exquisite composition incite me to find other ones...	2000-12-01
US	50645617	R2LQQCEVY4UEXI	0449911659	437546793	Rabbit, Run	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The Sin of Moral Irresponsibility	The novel is great: well thought-out plot, psychological profundity in  portrayal of its characters and their relations, language splendor and  richness of images and similes are hallmarks of the oeuvre of John Updike,  one of the best writers of the century. The use of present tense in the  novel makes its readers not onlookers but participants of the tragical  events.<br />The author does not despise his main character Harry 'Rabbit'  Angstrom but tries to depict impartially and understand him. Rabbit, a man  who once was a first-rate basketball player, in the beginning of his mature  life becomes an apprehensive son, indifferent father, inattentive husband,  lustful but callous lover. He thinks only about himself, he is ready to run  from any obstacle or trouble (his wife, his lover or any person who does  not want to do what Harry desires), 'he doesn't care who he hurts or how  much'. Gratifying his selfishness and feebleness in solving ethical  problems, he leaves behind only disenchantment, pain and even death. His  former lover fairly tells him: 'You're Mr.Death himself. You're not just  nothing, you're worse than nothing. You're not a rat, you don't stink,  you're not enough to stink.'<br />One of the main characters of the novel is a  priest, there are a lot of church-goers (including Rabbit himself) on its  pages, they speak about God but do not have faith. Their sanctimony  corrupts people. Even such unbelievers as Ruth, a call girl and Rabbit's  lover, and Lucy, priest's willful wife, look more sincere than their pious  milieu (Lucy about Rabbit: 'If he's a Christian thank God I'm not  one').<br />So, who is Rabbit? A monster? No, the author tells us, he is just  an ordinary modern man devoided of moral responsibility.	2000-09-19
US	50645617	R3R8LQ30KQXWK4	0312242034	475555013	The Industry of Souls	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Friends and Flags	The most attractive trait of the novel is the figure of its protagonist,  Alexander Bayliss (Shurik), a British citizen who was arrested in the early  1950s, charged with espionage against the USSR and sentenced to 25 years of  hard labor in the GULAG. After release he settled in the small Russian  village of Myshkino and spent 20 years there. He does not succumb to the  vicissitudes of life, does not cherish plans of sweet revenge, being a real  stoic both in his day-to-day life and in critical situations. One of the  Orthodox Christian saints told once: save your life and hundres will be  save near you. Shurik saw a lot of crying injustice in his long life but  did not become inbittered. Working as a schoolmaster in Myshkino he taught  his pupils simple but ultimate truths (such as 'if you kill something of  beauty, two ugliness spring up in its place') thereby moulding their souls.  And now he receives his 'bread upon waters' in genuine respect and love of  all inhabitants of Myshkino and neighbourhood. The depiction of characters  of Russian people is lively and convincing, that is not rife in books of  foreign authors.<br />But I have to mention some discrepancies in the novel.  Shurik and his comrades of Work Unit 8, as a lot of people during Stalin's  rule, were condemned for petty causes or even denunciations. But it is  noticeably less probable that not one of them was released during amnesties  of 1950s and 1960s. The life of Russian people depicted in accordance with  ubiquitous foreign views that everything was bad in Soviet Russia. It is  ridiculous to read about used condom of some Party leader having in mind  licentiousness of modern men of power. Sometimes the author uses rather  hackneyed Russian phrases (such as -  we 'pretended to work whilst the  Party pretended to pay us') or even vulgar anecdotes.<br />Nevertheless the  main idea of the book - friends are more important than flags - is true and  extremely important.	2000-09-14
US	50645617	RREN3YERJ01NA	0747545634	977875409	The Map of Love	Books	4	9	11	N	N	The Map of Love to Egypt	The novel is a genuine encyclopedia of Egypt - its history, its people,  its culture, its politics. Two love stories, intertwined but divided by  hundred years, are so masterly depicted in  picturesque Egyptian milieu  that a reader falls in love not with the heroes but with this great ancient  land. From my point of view, the Anna/Sharif's love story is excellently  told but a bit too sentimental, the Omar/Isabel's love affair is rather  insipid, but author's love to her native country is simon-pure.	2000-09-06
US	50645617	R179T35O64408Y	0151004943	685572016	Our Fathers: A Novel  by the Author of The Missing	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A Long Road to Forgiveness	Being not a Scot myself, I eschew to contradict the previous reviewer from  Scotland in a question of author's seriousness and profundity in depiction  of Scottish problems. I'll only try to evaluate the novel from impartial  point of view of a man who was born in other country. <br />In his first novel  Andrew O'Hagan raises a serious problem of conflict and misunderstanding of  generations. Hugh Bawn, a grandfather of Jamie Bawn who is a protagonist of  the novel, in postwar era made his best to eliminate Glaswegian terrible  slums and give every citizen a clean and decent flat in tower blocks. He  used cheap materials in construction in order to build more houses, not so  comfortable but undoubtedly affordable. But the new times come, and today  people, whose parents were glad to live in Hugh's houses, tear down the old  structures to make way for the new and cast a slur upon Bawn. For those who  live on the land of the former Soviet Union the depicted situation is a  kind of allegory of our modern life, a portrait of &quot;those fogetters of  past necessities, those rectifiers of big mistakes&quot; who discern in the  history of our country in the 20th century only Stalin but never arduous  labor of hundreds of our grandfathers, the Soviet Hughs, in their attempts  to make life of millions better. The principle formulated by Jamie Bawn  announces a motto of a conscious part of the new generation: &quot;I wanted  my own day, but not at the expense of every day that preceded&quot;.<br />The  novel describes alienation between the members of three generations of the  Bawn family. Hugh (first generation) is a passionate builder but he has no  time for his son Robert (second generation), whom he despises for his  inabilities. Robert, being unable to change his father's opinion, hates him  instead and becomes a drunkard in fruitless efforts to find his place in  the world. He abuses his wife and hates his son Jamie (third generation)  who hates him in return and escapes to his grandfather. Jamie is an ardent  listener of Hugh's knowledge, but in adulthood he uses this knowledge in  demolition of the buildings previously constructed by his grandfather. The  train of hatred seems insurmountable, but Hugh's incurable illness gives  Jamie possibility to escape an ordinary life rote and time to recall and  understand. He, who decided to stop his family probles and sins simply by  refusing to marry and have children, commences a hard process of  foregiveness of inveterate deep offences...<br />The language of the novel is  poetically terse with a lot of beautiful images and oxymorons, sometimes it  is necessary to read a sentence at least twice to understand its true  meaning. It is a very good novel justly shortlisted for the 1999 Booker  Prize. It resembles Seamus Deane's masterpiece &quot;Reading in the  Dark&quot; which I personally prefer.	2000-09-05
US	50645617	R1JGI6GGUQ9GLJ	0805062858	538222637	Headlong: A Novel	Books	5	11	15	N	N	Obsession, or a Moral Tragicomedy in Intellectual Apparel	This is the first book by Michael Frayen I've ever read and I'm really impressed. The novel is a page-turner: the comical part of the plot is rather unobtrusive, it includes genuine pearls of humorous characteristics  and funny remarks; the part depicting life and time of the great Flemish  artist Peter Bruegel is excellent, it is cognitive and incentive, one will  feel necessity to dive into bizarre world of painter's fantasies by  visiting libraries or appropriate sites on the Net. The author invites you  to solve the mystery of Bruegel's art and simultaneously entertines with  masterly depiction of unfortunate attempts of Martin Clay, a hero of the  novel, to obtain lost masterpiece.<br />But under the layers of comical  effects one can discern elements of tragical events in some keeping with  bloody history of the Netherlands under Spanish rule in the 16th century.  Martin, a modern person who has everything he really needs - a loving young  wife, wonderful daughter, decent work and income, by accident comes across  a lost Bruegel's (probably) canvas in the home of his country neighbor who  is unaware of his fortune and wants to sell it. Martin commences his  efforts to acquire the picture with a proper desire to give it to the  National Gallery in London and receive universal kudos for its discovery.  But little by little the craving for its possession takes him all, he lies,  cheats, commits illegal actions. Next comes possibility of adultery and  even leaving his wife and daughter as a price for the canvas. Martin can  not resist his monomania anymore, he is ready to justify all his unbecoming  deeds. Even in the last ordeal by fire, when he has to choose between  rescue of Laura, his neighbor's wife, and the longed-for canvas, he picks  the latter at first and only Laura's desperate scream helps him to make  right choice.<br />The last pages of the novel are rather sad...the life of the hero is normalizing  again (or at least he thinks so). The book is Martin's confession, his  endeavor to alleviate pain caused by his rash actions, to understand what  has happened with him... And why...	2000-09-01
US	50645617	R1GI5TPWX34HBU	0679409920	989216742	The Human Factor (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Love as the Human Factor	This book is not my favorite among Graham Green's, personally I prefer  'The Heart of the Matter'. The novel includes even obvious discrepancies:  pictures of Moscow life is out-of-date, the late 1970s in the USSR are  depicted as late 1950s or 1960s at least, the Russian characters are rather  schematic. <br />Nevertheless, the author is telling us extremely important  thing: believe your heart but not Government or its different services  including Secret ones. The end of the novel is rather sad but it is not  because the hero betrayed England and trusted the Soviet Union (it could be  vice versa). Maurice Castle loves his wife and stepson, and it is the main  factor that destroys the plans of different Secret Services, it is the main  human factor that sets the world in motion.	2000-08-29
US	50645617	R35XRWTSZL79JR	0880014989	735593843	Continent	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A World without Love	This terse and masterly written novel, constructed as a collection of  short stories without any apparent interconnections, has only one hero - a  new Continent itself. The Continent does not really exist on world maps but  its inhabitants are quite similar to the people of real continents in many  (unfortunately, unseemly) ways. So, turning the last page of the novel, we  breathe with relief because we are living beyond the confines of this  Continent where occurs trade but not trust, superstition but not faith,  lust but not love...	2000-08-25
US	50645617	RGE12H9DTU25X	0140134298	814841279	Swann	Books	5	12	13	N	N	The Soul of Poetess	It is really difficult to determine genre of this undoubtedly excellent novel. A literary mystery? Yes, but only in its framework... A brilliant satire that derides the intellectual high society? Yes, especially in the  last part of the book with its impressing gallery of ironically depicted  persons without names but with picturesque sobriquets. Even at least three  of four main characters of the novel are rather humorously delineated: a  feminist who is fond of theoretically contemptible men; a biographer and  misanthrope, an impotent with disorderly sexual fantasies; an old maiden  with pretensions of personal significance... An experiment with literary  form? Yes, it really transforms through the whole book, reaching its  culmination in the end, crossing the border between novel and  screenscript...<br />But I think that the author's conception is more  profound: the novel is a serious attempt of philosophical comprehension of  human personality. Mary Swann, a rural Canadian poet, was murdered by her  brutal husband only hours after submitting her poems to local newspaper  editor and publisher Frederic Cruzzi. She became famous posthumously, and  now four different people - a scholar Sarah Maloney, a writer Morton  Jimroy, a librarian Rose Hindmarch and Frederic Cruzzi are trying to  understand Mary Swann and her poems. With their semi-empty souls and  aspirations for mandane success and promotion, in their endeavors to grasp  the meaning of her poems, they fail. They start reconstruction not of the  real Mary Swann but her artificial image apropos their intensions.<br />So  genuine understanding is impossible: Swann's life was devoid of external  events, nobody knew her thoughts and yearnings. But a miracle happens -  unsolved spirit of poetess via her naive poems commences to alter her  readers...	2000-07-28
US	50645617	R23GX8HYMHNDVQ	0020360754	793477381	Heart Songs and Other Stories	Books	5	16	19	N	N	In Search of Lost Happiness	To those, who were already enchanted by E.Annie Proulx's masterpieces ('Postcards' or 'The Shipping News'): do not eschew this collection of early short stories. They are not unskillful sketches of incipient,  promising author but dazzlingly and glamorously brilliant splashes of her  extraordinary talent (paradoxically both tragical and comical),  unforgettable portraits of sundry people, to whom from the first pages you  will feel admiration or aversion but never indifference or lack of  interest, people in search of lost happiness... such as all of us are...	2000-05-16
US	50645617	R3SIBSBGJ9U527	0374105251	453372686	Another World	Books	5	2	5	N	N	The Moral Responsibility of a Person	The new novel of Pat Barker has all the traits that distinguish her widely acclaimed and highly awarded Regeneration Trilogy - excellent language, brilliant and psychologically exact depiction of characters, several  intertwined lines of the narrative and profound exposition of the problems  of human existence. The author takes traditionally sentimental elements of  the plot, extirpates even a tinge of schmaltz and forms edifice of the  novel. <br />She tells us about the moral responsibility of a person whose  rash decisions can destroy a previous marriage in ephemeral hope to attain  happiness in a new one and mold some fly-by-night alliance, externally  resembling a firm family but internally demolishing (sometimes even  physically) by ghosts of hate and intolerance that were begotten by these  indiscreet decisions. Masterly synthesis of different time layers,  description of remorse of an old man who took part in the First World War  in Europe, thoughts about atonement and perdition give this problem, give  this novel a timeless Biblical aspect.	2000-05-12
US	50645617	R3B49UBAER9G1Q	0394574400	322032387	Reading in the Dark	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The Way of Every Flesh	The book of Irish poet Seamus Deane describes a childhood of an unnamed protagonist in Northern Ireland in the 1950s. This gives opportunity to attain impartial attitude to the situation in Derry in order not to blame participants of the conflict but to discern its cause and motives. Old  family mysteries' disclosing makes the novel a real pageturner, but it is  only a part of author's plot.<br />Seamus Deane masterly reconstructs a  wonderful universe of child's fantasies: enigmatic and thrilling adult  world appears as an exciting fairy tale with additional heroic or  terrifying tinges of local political discord. The child grows up, and  fantastic histories lose their charms acquiring outlines of reality in  terrors, cowardice and treachery of their personae. Former semigods,  parents become ordinary mortals with their fears, pains and guilts; but  extra knowledge and futher understanding give both additional strength and  pride in never-ending children-parents rivalry and additional yearning  after innocence of childhood lost once and for all. We become adults only  when in comprehension of our parent's vulnerability we find compassion for  them. And hope for future mercy from our own children.<br />An excellent  novel!	2000-04-11
US	50645617	R1BQFZUSDR0TVH	0312168179	103025140	Difficulties of a Bridegroom: Stories	Books	3	1	3	N	N	When Ockham's Razor is Broken	This collection includes the whole gamut of short stories from pretentious but weak parable ('O'Kelly's Angel') to real gem ('The Deadfall'). The author is a famous poet, and I believe his poems are excellent. His  language is rich. But his prosaic works, cloyed with numerous images and  metaphors sometimes rather complicated and unnecessary, force to recall the  Ockham's Razor. Nevertheless his ardent aversion to abominable massacre of  God's small critters hypocritically named 'hunt', expressed at least in  three of his stories, takes all my sympathies.	2000-04-05
US	50645617	R35Q1YYOZTNRLL	0393313328	16750600	Cal: A Novel	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A Story of Hate and Love	It is a story of a young guy named Cal who lives in the Land of Hate (Northern Ireland) where he can be beaten and his house set on fire only because he is a Catholic. He gave up his work in an abattoir in a week,  being repelled by its blood and atrocity, but became a driver in IRA's  raids that brought misfortune and pain to the ordinary innocent people. We  see what Hate can do with a person: it leads Cal's father to physical and  psychical collapse (victim); it makes a 30-year-old teacher an implacable  personification of Death and Destruction and a school hooligan a killing  machine (executors). Cal is lone in the world with father as his only  relative and music as his only friend, and they can't help him to overcome  a deadlock. But his love to a woman, whose husband he helped to murder a  year before, converts his guilt and sorrow into genuine repentance. At  least since the time of Shakespeare we know that Love is doomed in the Land  of Hate but it changes the Land in the end.	2000-04-04
US	50645617	R18H8DO8LOWN1U	068480087X	787497119	Postcards	Books	5	11	13	N	N	The Price of Getting Away	E.Annie Proulx, the first female winner of PEN/Faulkner Award, wrote a wonderful story with Faulknerian plot and Steinbeckian characters but in such original manner and with such creative power that it takes your breath  away from the first page till the last one.<br />The Fall of the House of  Blood recalls Faulkner's 'Absalom, Absalom!' where an unrepentant sin of a  person triggers the inexorable course of moral and physical decay of the  whole family. Loyal Blood, a protagonist of the novel, whom his masculine  ancestors bequeath with a hot temperament, killed his beloved girlfriend  Billy and had to run away to evade just punishment. Travelling across the  American West for forty years, changing different jobs, he sends postcards  to his family without revealing his address. One can see an obvious  parallel with the fate of Cain. Loyal is an innate talanted farmer, 'a  tiller of the ground'. But after the horrible sexual crime his life is  really under the Lord's verdict: 'When thou tillest the ground, it shall  not henceforth yield unto thee her strength; a fugitive and a vagabond  shalt thou be in the earth... And the Lord set a mark upon Cain, lest any  finding him should kill him' (KJV:Genesis, 4;12,15). As a kind of such mark  Loyal receives a strange lung allergy that prevents all his contacts with  women. He runs hard but doesn't get anywhere except to a different place.  Without personal remorse but with intention to forget, he becomes a new  Wandering Jew; it seems that he lives several lives without the hope of  merciful death. Sometimes he, being virtually a good man, resembles the  Death himself: people die around him but he stays alive. As a  personafication of the Death he kills trapped animals without any sense or  compassion, - except one red-haired female coyote whose desperate eyes and  realization of its doomed fate remind him Billy's last look. The final of  the Blood's family outwardly is not so tragical as in the Faulkner's novel  but itsessence is just the same - no children, no purport, no hope. In the  last chapter we see a half-mad offspring of a man who had bought Blood's  farm - compare with the end of 'Absalom, Absalom!'<br />Description of  ordinary people's endurance of pain, hardship and adversity is excellent,  the author's attention to their agonies and ecstasies recalls famous  Steinbeck's books. The life of farmers was hard but it was real; modern  life is a rat race, an unquenchable thirst of money, an insatiable desire  for success and fame, it becomes a genuine nightmare.<br />The structure of  the novel, its form is exquisite. The author uses texts of postcards as an  explanation of events and elucidation of characters and even as a short  description of following episodes. The latter proves the author's literary  courage: she sometimes eschews the depiction of garish incidents (such as  the arson and search of culprits, pecuniary swindles in Maiami, etc.), the  only vocation of run-of-the-mill writers, but she always focuses on the  crucial psychological junctures in the lives of her heroes.<br />High  estimation of E.Annie Proulx's novel is absolutely deserved. Furthermore,  the existence of such a novel is the best confirmation of the fact that the  great literature is still alive. Closing this book I have a sole wish - to  open the other one written by the same author.	2000-03-01
US	50645617	R284MO3AY4JALC	0393312836	483124263	A Clockwork Orange	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Mystery of Human Soul	This book raises an eternal and crucial problem of ethical philosophy - the problem of free will, of free human choice between Good and Evil. Can a person be forced to be virtuous? Vladimir Solovyev, a great Russian  philosopher of the nineteenth century, wrote that an intent of the law is  not to transform a human being into an angel but to prevent their  transmutation into a devilish beast. The government officials in Anthony  Burgess' distopia conducted a forced metamorphosis of a morally brute  protagonist into some celestial critter incapable of doing any harm. The  result is deplorable: produced Clockwork Orange, whom nobody needs except  some unscrupulous politicians, can not survive in society based on lie and  violence. Forced Good is ephemeral and powerless before Evil.<br />The last  chapter gives a new dimension, new profundity to the story. Good, which was  impossible to inculcate from without, appears uncoerced within the depth of  the soul of adult hero supplanting Evil and Hate. The novel is full of  violence but it gives a hope: the author believes in an ultimate triumph of  Good in human being.<br />The language of the novel is positively unique. For  those who know both English and Russian its reading is a pure pleasure. The  author spells Russian words (sometimes slightly transformed) in English  letters and uses them with Russian meanings but under the rules of English  grammar. The result is stupendous: such exquisite inter-language play of  words, such splendid construction of sentences I've never met. However,  Russian translation of 'A Clockwork Orange' is rather lackadaisical, and  that only confirms novel's inimitable originality.	2000-02-18
US	50645617	R1GALEFA1VLLJ4	0679437223	458864358	Catch-22 (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	22	25	N	N	Booby Trap of the World	Undoubtedly, this book is a modern classic. To describe and elucidate all peculiarities of its style, allusions (Shakespeare, Dostoevsky, etc.), plot, characters and its influence on the modern culture and life one will  need to write another book of similar volume. So I'll be short: the novel  is excellent, a must read.<br />It starts as a brilliant satire showing  absurdity of a war machine and its human components. In times the story is  so funny that it is preferably to read in solitude in order not to  exasperate people with irrepressible laughter. But in the second half of  the novel the festive mode metamorphoses: a hilarity becomes a horror of a  man ensnared by a booby trap. The events and orders are crazy but the blood  of friends is absolutely real. The black comedy, taking place in Italy  during World War II, transforms into a hideous picture of the human  society, where a life of an ordinary person signifies nothing being only a  card in heinous game of rapacious and salacious potentates. In one of the  last chapters Rome, the Eternal City, appears as an apocalyptic vision of  impending destruction of the iniquitous world. The marvelous novel of  Joseph Heller warns us: Be vigilant!	2000-02-17
US	50645617	R2Y6P6DER3UBY4	0449002632	479109259	London: The Novel	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Bimillennial Odyssey	Written in James  Michener's epic style, this immense novel takes reader's attention from the first pages: bimillennial intertwined history of several British families gives both a lot of reading pleasure and an abundance of  useful historical and cultural information. In the succession of the sundry  characters you will not discover profound and brilliant ones because the  sole genuine hero of the book is virtually London itself in vast variety of  its history, customs, people. It is a novel for those who were, who are or  who will be in this great city - to  recall, to understand or to learn.	2000-02-16
US	50645617	R2MUZ6EG0WQ1TJ	0451169514	380266608	It	Books	5	1	1	N	N	When Evil is Powerless	Stephen King has written such a host of books that among his oeuvre one can unearth both namby-pamby stories and genuine gems with a whole gamut between. 'It' is a brilliant novel, my nonpareil favorite among the King's:  I love its style, its plot, its characters (except some unnecessary carnal  scenes). For me it is not an ordinary horror but an allegory of eternal  battle of Good and Evil in the world. Repeating a famous gospel truth, King  tells to be like children - believe in Good (in good policeman, in Santa  Claus, in love and friendship...) and this faith will make Evil powerless  against you: It can kill you but never vanquish.	2000-02-16
US	50645617	R1VQDW2IVSN0AK	0440224764	344411359	The Partner	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Importance of the Last Chapter	Perhaps, this novel is not the best of John Grisham's but definitely not the worst. A real page-turner, it units a gripping plot with an exact description of legal process. But Patrick Lanigan, its protagonist, differs  from the other heroes of the author's books - common, decent persons whom  external circumstances put before a hard ethical decision and who make the  only possible correct choice even at the cost of  personal career and life  (that's what I love Grisham's books for!). Patrick robbed the robbers, and  he is ready to return a part of his loot in order to exempt himself from  unloved wife and child, from the claims of law and start a new life with  handsome and beloved woman. In his phenomenal foresight he overcomes  everyone except quiet a simple eternal truth excellently expressed by  Friedrich Nietzsche: 'He who fights with monsters might take care lest he  thereby become a monster. And if you gaze for long into an abyss, the abyss  gases also into you'. So the last chapter of the novel is not the least but  the best: its events significantly shake life of the hero, thus testifying  that author's moral position remains unshaken.	2000-02-14
US	50645617	RGPQU5TM8T5BC	0786705639	722586933	Master Georgie (Bainbridge, Beryl)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Unsolved Mystery of a Human Being	A reading of this book resembles a leafing through an album of old photographs dedicated to some unknown man named George Hardy. Each of the three narrators, who were once connected and loved him (though in different  manner and degree), shows two pictures and tells their prehistories. The  image of Master Georgie as a respectable, decent man turns into a central  figure of such a weird sexual and family conundrum that it will take some  time to perceive; an affectionate son turns into a frigid father and lover;  a drunkard into a brave surgeon of the English army during the Crimean War;  etc. The book ends in horrible bloody scenes of the senseless war carnage.  Ms Beryl Bainbridge does not give an opportunity for George Hardy to speak,  so we close the book but still do not understand who and what was George  and why these three persons were so devoted to him. Just as in a real life:  people come and go, we think we know them, but we usually know only their  external appearance, and their essence remains a mystery...	2000-02-14
US	50645617	R1CYZZNDW4RHWG	0006548369	826602798	Catholics	Books	4	13	22	N	N	Faith in Modern World	This book is a short but vivid sketch depicting a situation in the Catholic Church after the Second Vatican Council which so swiftly and profoundly altered liturgical, ritual and spiritual life of the faithful  that many of them - both among a hierarchy and common priests, monks and  laymen - were thrown into confusion. However, these changes were positively  necessary in order not to clone the former mistakes of negation of the  modern world reality that several centuries ago had led to appearance of  'that righteous prig nailing in Wittenberg his defiance to the church  doors' who reformed the Church and the history of humankind. The novella  does not pretend to a wide scope of theological problems, the characters of  cynical church 'generals' are rather schematic and satirical, but the  delineation of different kinds of catholics - new 'enlightened' libertarian  generation, old generation who preserved their faith and also the  hesitating type of believer who is loosing his/her faith - and their  intricate interrelations in Time of Spiritual Troubles is really excellent.	2000-02-11
US	50645617	R2J06KU28H4MX9	0679735186	167686037	Independence Day: Bascombe Trilogy (2)	Books	4	2	12	N	N	Independence and Indifference	Undoubtedly, 'Independence Day' excels 'The Sportswriter': author's language remains excellent but its plot gains tensity and profundity and its characters become reliable. Frank Bascombe, a protagonist of both  novels, terminates his so-called Existence Period, a rather undistinctly  defined (despite a deluge of words) span of time in his life which  quintessence was a pure indifference to everybody except empty but  high-esteemed self. New marriage of his former wife (who at last has a real  Christian name instead of humiliating X of the previous novel) and problems  with son compel him to alter. Unlucky father&amp;son's tour ends with an  accidental physical injury of the son and unforeseen psychic impact on the  father. Filial love concealed by external impertinence and paternal love  crushed by lassitude. Virtually this is a novel about a man who is trying  to preserve his personal independence and simultaneously to surmount  confines of human indifference.<br />Ford's 'Independence Day' is positively a  Good American Novel but not a Great one. From my point of view, all genuine  Great American Novels were written in the twentieth century by William  Faulkner.	2000-02-10
US	50645617	R3VIE09PGJ83E7	0679444629	903668876	Midnight's Children (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	45	52	N	N	Empty Pickle Jar of Hope	Previously, during a scandal with 'The Satanic Verses' and Salmon Rushdie's death sentence, I tried to read his 'Shame' but was absolutely disappointed and stopped reading after first 100-150 pages. Now I discern  at least two of my mistakes: I read Rushdie in Russian translation and not  up to the end. 'Midnight's Children' was my second attempt to understand  Rushdie, I was attracted by its Booker and Booker of Bookers. The book  consists of three parts: at first I was tired with author's derisive style,  then I became interested in the fate of its protagonist, only at the end I  appraised author's intention and mastery of its realization.<br />An  undeniable strong point of the novel is its excellent language, a wonderful  gallimaufry of indigenous words and such an amazing gamut of English that  can do credit to every unabridged dictionary. Rushdie masterly wields his  skillful pen, a reading of his phrases is a pure pleasure for a literary  gourmet. His style is influenced by the Arabian tales of 1001 nights and -  among modern writers- by famous 'magical realism' of Gabriel Garcia  Marquez.<br />The novel is an expression of author's genuine love to his  native India. Rushdie weaves into the intricate lace of his story all  important events in political, social and spiritual life of India, Pakistan  and Bangladesh since the beginning of the century. But some of his  interpretations are rather disputable (the reviews of readers from Eastern  countries confirm this). In depiction of Indira Gandhi author's sharp  mockery turns into blind hate, and the Prime Minister of India transforms  into a real devil incarnate, a fiend that sterelizes midnight's children  depriving them not only of their magical gifts but the hope itself. It is  hard to understand such undisguised selective rage. The third part of the  novel is the best one. Relating about the innumarable sufferings of his  people in Indo-Pakistan conflicts and during formation of Bangladesh,  Salman Rushdiereaches the highest and culminating point of his  story.<br />The novel is full of interesting images such as 'the perforated  sheet', 'snakes and ladders' and  - first and foremost - 'midnight's  children'. All countries, that had passed through social disturbances and  collisions, have known their midnight's children, a quixotic generation  bestowed with their wonderful gifts but deprived of any possibility of  their realization. Midnight's children dream that they are inseparably  linked with the future of their beloved country, that they are its part and  parcel with all its misfortunes and joys. They will be overcome by the  persons without illusions but with hard elbows (or knees?) and jaws longing  for power and money. <br />The last chapter of the book gives the joyless and  distressing picture of 'new' India after defeat of midnight children (one  more image - &quot;Abracadabra'). But the protagonist, ending his story,  leaves one empty pickle jar - a symbol of hope: the children of the  vanquished are alive, they differ from their parents but nevertheless they  ARE their children.	2000-02-08
US	50645617	R3I3R98XLZTO03	0393045420	840533398	Grace Notes	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Calculated Beauty	This book has almost everything to become a highly successful novel. Based on short phrases, its amazing style, seemed unthinkable in the serious literature of post-Faulknerian age and appertained only to pulp fiction, is  clear and efficacious in precise descriptions of nuances of human feelings  and wee but important details. The story of Catherine McKenna, an Irish  talanted pianist and composer, her struggle against 'a testosterone  brigade' (masculine world) for independence in private life and art is an  extremely advantageous theme nowadays. A process of musical creative work  with its culs-de-sac, agonies and estasies is depicted thoroughly. Telling  only about several crucial moments in the heroine's life (such as her  father's funeral, a birth of her daughter, a breaking-off of distressing  relations with her boyfriend-drunkard, a performance of her first  orchestral composition) and masterly supplementing them with pertinent  flashbacks, Bernard MacLaverty relates the story of every flesh: being a  child with a genuine love to her parents and simultaneously with a hate for  freedom restrictions; acquiring long-expected independence from them only  to be held in servitude of passions and actualize worst parent's  nightmares; becoming herself a mother with the doomed desire to save her  own daughter from all evils and pains of the world.<br />This novel was  ill-starred: if it were published a year later, it could be awarded with  the Booker Prize. But in 1997 it had to yield the Prize to A.Roy's  wonderful book. 'Grace Notes' is a novel of calculated beauty (even an  appearance of Protestant drums in Catherine's composition was   anticipated), 'The God of Small Things' is a novel-flash overwhelming its  readers with unpredictable gamut of human emotions.	2000-02-07
US	50645617	R1RFH29IPFTMU	0385490992	454775948	The Street Lawyer	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Praiseworthy Civil Act	The readers, who anticipate a new page-turner from a famous author of legal thrillers, will be disappointed. In this novel John Grisham, who has stupendous audience all over the world, speaks loudly and distinctly about  social problems of the U.S.homeless citizens. It is a praiseworthy civil  act but unfortunately some characters of the book (including the main one)  and their decisions and deeds appear artificial at times. Perhaps the  author tells not about IS but about SHOULD BE: thank you, John, may your  expectations come true...	2000-02-07
US	50645617	R17BFA8ECT27UH	0440224764	999720718	The Partner	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Importance of the Last Chapter	Perhaps this novel is not the best of John Grisham's but definitely not the worst. A real page-turner, it units a gripping plot with an exact description of legal process. But Patrick Lanigan, its protagonist, differs  from other heroes of author's books - common, decent persons whom external  circumstances put before hard ethical decision and who make the only  possible correct choice even at the cost of life (that's what I love  Grisham's books for!). Patrick robbed the robbers, and he is ready to  return part of his loot in order to free himself from unloved wife and  child, from claims of law and start new life with handsome and beloved  woman. In his phenomenal foresight he overcomes everyone except quiet a  simple eternal truth excellently expressed by Friedrich Nietzsche: 'He who  fights with monsters might take care lest he thereby become a monster. And  if you gaze for long into an abyss, the abyss gazes also into you'. So the  last chapter of the novel is not the least but the best: its events  significantly shake life of the hero, thus testifying that author's moral  position remains unshaken.	2000-02-03
US	50645617	R3RQMA8GUX311A	0452276721	129425029	The Ghost Road (William Abrahams)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	The Ghost Road of Human Civilization	Recalling the books of Lost Generation enriched with psychoanalytic experience and author's brilliant style, Ms Pat Barker's sad story takes all your attention from the first pages. Two main lines of the novel's plot  tell us about Lt Billy Prior, who returns to the Field Forces in France in  the last months of the WWI, and Dr William Rivers, whose memory revives the  days of his life amidst the head-hunters of Melanesia. So we have two  different rungs of the social ladder of human civilization - Europe as the  upper edge and Melanesia as the bottom one. Former head-hunters, whose  cruel practice was strictly proscribed by 'civilized white men', can  restrain their passions (though coveting for past bloody raids) and even  have reverent attitide towards human death and complicated rituals of  interment. Intertwining episodes of both main lines Ms Barker delineates a  hideous picture of insensate and endless ('Nobody's in control. Nobody  knows how to stop.') human abattoir of the last battles of the war in  Europe where 'civilized white men' destroy themselves in madness unknown  for the Melanesian barbarians. Yet the heroes of the novel do not know that  this war is only the World War I: the Ghost Road of human civilization...	2000-02-03
US	50645617	R3MWI18P9768JG	0684853159	2967327	The WASP FACTORY: A NOVEL	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Provocatively Disturbing Novel	'The Wasp Factory' is the first book written by Iain Banks, it is also the first of his books I've read. This provocatively disturbing novel is a proper start both for an author to evince himself and for a reader to  receive an impression of author's manner and views. The book includes  elements of various literary genres. The history of lunatic family of  Scotsmen, narrated by its demented teenager member, appears sometimes as a  crime related by serial killer, sometimes as a horror with meticulous  description of tortures, sometimes as a black comedy in depiction of weird  family customs such as strange system of education, and sometimes as a  mystery especially having in mind last chapters that dramatically change  everything making a tormentor a victim. Excellent language, masterly  construction of dialogues, profound insights in the psyche of his  pathological heroes, sad and sagacious symbols (Wasp Factory as a distorted  image of the world where every critter hastens to their death) reveal  literary gift of the author. There is only one way to know which path in  literature, what genre were chosen later on by Mr Banks - to read his other  books.	2000-02-01
US	50645617	R16NR6722IG9XA	0679457313	521720988	The God of Small Things	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Significance of Small Things	This wonderful and outstanding book is a poem written in prose, a story of love and hate, of faithfulness and treachery. This is a novel about genuine affection and its price in the cruel world. Fourteen nights of love costed  two immediate deaths and at least three distorted lives: does such a  balance make any sense? An answer is etched even in composition of the  novel. The last chapter of the book, its end and pinnacle, gives the  answer: we see the fortnight through the eyes of a man and a woman who are  in love, but who understand their doomed fate, and this makes every moment  of their intimacy priceless. They discern the significance of the Small  Things (even a life of a minute spider, a mute witness of their passion),  they realize the meaning of Tomorrow. A cause of the tragical events is not  the love that breaks all racial and social barriers but these barriers  themselves and the hatred generated by them. Take care of Small Things of  human delicate happiness in this still ruthless world, - tells us Ms Roy's  beautiful novel, - and believe in Tomorrow despite everything.  <br />Influenced by William Faulkner, Ms Arundhati Roy's moving poetic style  successfully supplements Salmon Rushdie's derisive 'magical realism',  giving trustworthy picture of Indian life. 'The God of Small Things' is the  first novel of the author and (undoubtedly) her great achievement. I wish  her next book to be even better (though now I really do not know what can  be better).	2000-02-01
US	50645617	R3H58K7HM1I2UC	0345376110	621065412	Blake	Books	5	37	37	N	N	Perceiving William Blake	Reading William Blake's enigmatic painted poems on the Web, standing before his paintings in the Tate Gallery, I wished to find a good book which could help in understanding this great artist. My dream came true  when I opened Peter Ackroyd's book 'Blake'. I recommend this book to  everyone who is interested (as am I) in life and oeuvre of William Blake,  the beautiful mysterious English poet, painter and visionary. Mr Ackroyd  does not try to decipher and explain the inner meaning of all Blake's  poems, paintings and prophesies (nobody can do this!), but in the  description of the great mystic's life, time and milieu he gives us  important clues. In several chapters he also confides us personal insights  of some Blake's masterpieces. Turning the last page of the book you will  wish to reread Blake's poems and prophesies and review his paintings: this  is the best an author can attain in writing an artist's biography.	2000-01-31
US	50645617	R2TC2QC3QRWM9I	0679762108	709978746	The Sportswriter: Bascombe Trilogy (1)	Books	3	7	11	N	N	Sounds of Spiritual Emptiness	I picked up this book attracted by its famous awarded sequel 'Independence Day' and  a panegyrical comparison of its author with Hemingway, Faulkner, Steinbeck and Bellow simultaneously (a list of my favorite American writers!). I'm glad that all the hype includes at least some truth: Ford's  language is really excellent. Unfortunately I can not say anything similar  about a plot and the characters of the novel.<br />Frank Bascombe, a garrulous  protagonist, is charmed by his own stream of words (not of consciousness).  He speaks about his former wife, deceased son, other children, but the more  he speaks the more his sincerity becomes questionable. His inability to  write serious prose is quiet intelligible: nothing and nobody interest him  except his inner spiritual emptiness and his bleak (but accurately counted)  sexual affairs. In his narrative even his ex-wife do not have a Christian  name, she is just his X. An incessant rumination about deceased son is only  a justification of his promiscuity and lack of interest in living son and  daugther. Existing in the desert of own soul he fabricates  feelings from  nothing, at the same time staying indifferent to other's genuine pains and  worries. A suicide of a member of his 'male club' and  realization of a  fact that he could possibly prevent it, revive his emotions for a moment  which soon ends (guess!) in next sexual affair. It is terrible to live in a  world depicted by Richard Ford. What is this? A prophesy of coming  spiritual death of America? I don't want to believe.<br />Rating: five stars  for author's rich language and one star for everything else gives average  three stars.	2000-01-28
US	50645617	RKAB6HMQ285KL	0385494238	654180128	Amsterdam	Books	3	5	8	N	N	The Yahoos Disguised	An appraisal of this novel from a vantage point of the serious realistic literature, literature of bright and impressive characters and profound feelings, can excite only sheer disappointment: though author's style is worthwhile, his characters are shallow, motivations of their deeds are  week, turns of the plot are absolutely predictable. But since the time of  great Jonathan Swift (at least!) a strong satirical tendency exists in  English literature. Ian McEwan's 'Amsterdam' is a cold satire on 'high  society', its heroes are modern Yahoos, members of a loathsome race of  brutes having the form and all evils of humans, depicted in Swift's  'Gulliver's Travels'. These up-to-date Yahoos are even more horrible and  dangerous because having abominable essence of their literary harbingers  they now disguised as the noble Gouyhnhnms in luminous apparels of  ostentatiously beautiful words and righteous thoughts. Author's diagnosis  is unconsoling and unfavorable: the society is incurably ill, euthanasia is  the best remedy. Not being an ardent devotee of satirical literature  myself, I prefer to give this book only three stars as its rate.	2000-01-27
US	50645617	R3OKBZOEVB71JC	0679766626	574131654	Last Orders	Books	5	47	47	N	N	Moment of Ultimate Truth	Last orders (either in a pub before its closing-time or in one's lifetime before its termination) is a moment of final decision, a moment of ultimate truth. Everyone who has faced in their life a death of any intimate person - a friend or relative - comes to a conclusion that funeral rites are  intended not for the deceased (who is already in some other place, far from  this mortal coil) but for those who are still alive. Death of every person  portends personal departure and compels to appraise their own life, to  encounter the truth, at least tacitly. The novel of Graham Swift is the  most perfect description (I've ever read) of that painful process.<br />Before  his death Jack Dodd ordered to scatter his ashes into the ocean from  Margate Pier. His three intimate friends and adopted son perform the order.  Their (and some other person's) short conversations, intertwined memories  and interdependent thoughts during this trip from London to Margate  polyphonically form the story - warmth of human love and compassion,  bitterness of mutual misunderstanding and disappointment, unrealized  dreams, ambiguity of love&amp;hate relations between father and son, - all  that molds individual lives. It is significant that their way lies through  Canterbury and its Cathedral, for self-comprehension is impossible without  personal repentance and vindication of another's sins and misdeeds. The  last chapter of the book is surprisingly calm: the human harmony  undisturbed by berserk weather gives hope that accomplished mission was not  in vain.<br />Author's mastery in representing distinct voices of his heroes  surpasses every praise. Those, for whom English is only second language (as  for me),at first can be perplexed by abundance of slang terms and  indigenous allusions. Please make efforts and you will be rewarded galore.  Do not hasten to discern all personal interrelations from the first pages,  believe the author, he will skillfully relate everything. Similar to a  frozen window-glass gradually clearing one's vision with every movement of  one's warm hand, each narrator of the story will tell their perception of  events. If in the end something stays a bit fuzzy or blurred, it is not  author's fault - such is our real life where absolute knowledge is  unattainable. An excellent and justly awarded novel.n window-glass gradually clearing one's vision with every movement of  one's warm hand, each narrator of the story will tell their perception of  events. If in the end something stays a bit fuzzy or blurred, it is not  author's fault - such is our real life where absolute knowledge is  unattainable. An excellent and justly awarded novel.	2000-01-26
US	50645617	R14P1XZZ9RJKDN	0679731725	247754060	The Remains of the Day	Books	5	31	34	N	N	Necessity of Moral Choice	This novel is a real miracle of literature. I am impressed by marvelous beauty and purity of its language (such uncommon example in modern literature inundated with slang and obscenities)which allow to compare it  with the high literary classic. Nurtured in Russian literature I wish to  liken Kazuo Ishiguro to Russian writer Anton Chekhov: concise style, exact  descriptions, unsurpassed mastery of explicit psychological characteristics  of characters (especially if a protagonist makes every attempt to suppress  any manifestation of his inner emotions), - all this is similar for both  authors. Surface simplicity of the story disguises intricateness of its  internal composition and concealed psychological motives making books of  both writers  difficult for screen adaptation.<br />Professionalism and fate  of an individual in swiftly changing world are the main themes of the  novel, extremely important for modern society where business becomes new  god. Professionalism gives possibility to live repletely but only innermost  moral fortitude gives possibility to survive psychically and even  spiritually intact. Mr Stevens, the novel's narrator, is a perfect  professional, a 'great butler'. His personal ethic shrunk to a size of  official duties so that love and death are powerless before them. But world  has crucially changed and Mr Stevens is trying to adjust himself to a new  world, to a new employer, to change not only his behavior but style of  thinking in order to please his new master, for this is the demand of his  profession. It is important for every human being not to repudiate the old  world as the worst one (trying to neglect its positive features), not to  accept 'the new brave world' as the best one (for he/she will discern its  negative sides later) but to preserve his/her soul for sound estimation of  what is going on.<br />The last meeting of the heroes - Mr Stevens and former  Miss Keaton - sheds new light on the story making Miss Keaton not a victimof Mr Stevens' blind, unperceptive heart but a genuine heroine of the  novel, a person who does not permit her high-leveled professionalism to  prevail over main human feelings, who has moral mettle to follow accepted  decision. The final deed of Miss Keaton is not a vergeance of previously  rejected love but a correct ethical choice of strong disposition. Conniving  at uncontrolled feelings (especially sexual desire) puts individuals on the  verge of life and death, creats pain and destruction around and within them  (Anna Karenina in famous Tolstoy's novel, characters of Ondaatje's 'The  English Patient'); sound moral choice in hard circumstances and endurance  of its results afterwads is the only fit possibility (Tatyana in Pushkin's  'Onegin') - this is the conclusion of great literature, wherein the novel  of Kazuo Ishiguro can be rightly included.	2000-01-25
US	50645617	R3L5H81G1FVYYE	0679731725	247754060	The Remains of the Day	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Necessity of Moral Choice	This novel is a real miracle of literature. I am impressed by marvelous beauty and purity of its language (such uncommon example in modern  literature inundated with slang and obscenities)which allow to compare it  with the high literary classic. Nurtured in Russian literature I wish to  liken Kazuo Ishiguro to Russian writer Anton Chekhov: concise style, exact  descriptions, unsurpassed mastery of explicit psychological characteristics  of characters (especially if a protagonist makes every attempt to suppress  any manifestation of his inner emotions), - all this is similar for both  authors. Surface simplicity of the story disguises intricateness of its  internal composition and concealed psychological motives making books of  both writers  difficult for screen adaptation.<br />Professionalism and fate  of an individual in swiftly changing world are the main themes of the  novel, extremely important for modern society where business becomes new  god. Professionalism gives possibility to live repletely but only innermost  moral fortitude gives possibility to survive psychically and even  spiritually intact. Mr Stevens, the novel's narrator, is a perfect  professional, a 'great butler'. His personal ethic shrunk to a size of  official duties so that love and death are powerless before them. But world  has crucially changed and Mr Stevens is trying to adjust himself to a new  world, to a new employer, to change not only his behavior but style of  thinking in order to please his new master, for this is the demand of his  profession. It is important for every human being not to repudiate the old  world as the worst one (trying to neglect its positive features), not to  accept 'the new brave world' as the best one (for he/she will discern its  negative sides later) but to preserve his/her soul for sound estimation of  what is going on.<br />The last meeting of the heroes - Mr Stevens and former  Miss Keaton - sheds new light on the story making Miss Keaton not a victimof Mr Stevens' blind, unperceptive heart but a genuine heroine of the  novel, a person who does not permit her high-leveled professionalism to  prevail over main human feelings, who has moral mettle to follow accepted  decision. The final deed of Miss Keaton is not a vergeance of previously  rejected love but a correct ethical choice of strong disposition. Conniving  at uncontrolled feelings (especially sexual desire) puts individuals on the  verge of life and death, creates pain and destruction around and within  them (Anna Karenina in famous Tolstoy's novel, characters of Ondaatje's  'The English Patient'); sound moral choice in hard circumstances and  endurance of its results afterwads is the only fit possibility (Tatyana in  Pushkin's 'Onegin') - this is the conclusion of great literature, wherein  the novel of Kazuo Ishiguro can be rightly included.	2000-01-25
US	50645617	R20JJTQ1R2KDSJ	0679731725	247754060	The Remains of the Day	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Necessity of Moral Choice	This novel is a real miracle of literature. I am impressed by marvelous beauty and purity of its language (such uncommon example in modern  literature inundated with slang and obscenities)which allow to compare it  with the high literary classic. Nurtured in Russian literature I wish to  liken Kazuo Ishiguro to Russian writer Anton Chekhov: concise style, exact  descriptions, unsurpassed mastery of explicit psychological characteristics  of characters (especially if a protagonist makes every attempt to suppress  any manifestation of his inner emotions), - all this is similar for both  authors. Surface simplicity of the story disguises intricateness of its  internal composition and concealed psychological motives making books of  both writers  difficult for screen adaptation.<br />Professionalism and fate  of an individual in swiftly changing world are the main themes of the  novel, extremely important for modern society where business becomes new  god. Professionalism gives possibility to live repletely but only innermost  moral fortitude gives possibility to survive psychically and even  spiritually intact. Mr Stevens, the novel's narrator, is a perfect  professional, a 'great butler'. His personal ethic shrunk to a size of  official duties so that love and death are powerless before them. But world  has crucially changed and Mr Stevens is trying to adjust himself to a new  world, to a new employer, to change not only his behavior but style of  thinking in order to please his new master, for this is the demand of his  profession. It is important for every human being not to repudiate the old  world as the worst one (trying to neglect its positive features), not to  accept 'the new brave world' as the best one (for he/she will discern its  negative sides later) but to preserve his/her soul for sound estimation of  what is going on.<br />The last meeting of the heroes - Mr Stevens and former  Miss Keaton - sheds new light on the story making Miss Keaton not a victimof Mr Stevens' blind, unperceptive heart but a genuine heroine of the  novel, a person who does not permit her high-leveled professionalism to  prevail over main human feelings, who has moral mettle to follow accepted  decision. The final deed of Miss Keaton is not a vergeance of previously  rejected love but a correct ethical choice of strong disposition. Conniving  at uncontrolled feelings (especially sexual desire) puts individuals on the  verge of life and death, creates pain and destruction around and within  them (Anna Karenina in famous Tolstoy's novel, characters of Ondaatje's  'The English Patient'); sound moral choice in hard circumstances and  endurance of its results afterwads is the only fit possibility (Tatyana in  Pushkin's 'Onegin') - this is the conclusion of great literature, wherein  the novel of Kazuo Ishiguro can be rightly included.	2000-01-25
US	50645617	R3RRRTQD2WN36S	0156003945	696833954	Rituals (Harvest Book)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Human Rituals in Godless World	This small splendid book is full of ideas. Which is the main one? What is this novel about? A Bildungsroman.An import of human sexuality. An up-to-date evolution of Nietzsche's concept of &quot;the death of  God&quot;. A fate of art in modern  society. A trip through time - the  fifties, sixties, seventies... Confronted with soullessness of official  religion Inni Wintrop, a protagonist of the book, Arnold and Philip Taads,  two other main characters of the novel, lost their belief in God, but in  cold emptiness and animosity of godless world they created their own  rituals. Arnold Taads designed a ritual of strict time regulations of  loneliness where even his former lover was not permitted to come in when  she  had appeared ten minutes before appointed time. Philip Taads turned to  Japanese cults &quot;stemmed from a culture and a tradition that were not  his and could never become his&quot;. He devised his own East considering  the real Japan a spoiled one. They both started with dislike to the milieu  which inevitably turned into hatred pointed towards the whole world  including themselves. These self-made rituals helped them only in one  occassion - to commit suicides in conspicious but rather stagy style. For  Inni Wintrop women became his religion. In incessant love-making he lost  something very important that makes Love. His sexual promiscuous rituals  destroyed his marriage and put him on the verge of death in unsuccessful  suicide. The tragic fate of Arnold and Philip Taads, his own meaningless  life showed Inni fallaciousness of universal hatred but he still have no  answers to the crucial questions of human existence in godless world. I  recommend this book to everyone - the beautiful and sad novel of wise Dutch  author Cees Nooteboom.	2000-01-24
US	50645617	R1QRJFY3GF0LZC	015600402X	740896753	In the Dutch Mountains (Harvest Book)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Fairy Tale and Real Life	This novel has all traits of Cees Nooteboom's oeuvre - a lot of ideas, concepts and insights compressed in a slim volume, several levels of narrative, exquisite composition, excellent language (kudos also to  translator).But some enigmatic quality of story makes its gist elusive and  even criptic and any interpretation only relative. It is a fairy tale told  by Alfonso Tiburon, a Spanish engineer, so we have at least two levels of  narrative: a fairy tale per se and some thoughts of its author concerning  literature and life. Both  levels are rather uncomplicated apart: retold  'Snow Queen' with addition of Plato's concept of androgynes and some facts  of Triburon's life with addition of his literary and philosophical  opinions. The mystery appears when you peruse both levels simultaneously,  and here Cees Nooteboom is at his best. Tiburon starts his tale with  perfect beauty and perfect happiness (a perfect man Kai, a perfect woman  Lucia and their perfect love) and promises to finish it with them. The  beginning of the fairy tale resembles Andersen's story: Kai is abducted by  Snow Queen, Lucia undertakes his quest. But this story 'happened not so  very long ago' and the world seriously changed since Andersen's days. Today  'Snow Queen' is just a nickname of mob female bellwether, today perfect  people can't keep their innocence and perfection any more. Kai becomes a  silent lover of his cool mistress and, at the same time, a chauffeur during  gang inroads. All this is at least motivated and justified by his painful  eye. Lucia falls a prey to some lecherous wandering preacher and achieves a  total blank in his embraces without any intrusion of splinted glass. But a  fairy tale has its own laws that differ it from a real life. Some external  events but not internal fortitude mend the situation. And now Lucia  recommences her search leaving behind her new lover. A feeble ghost of  Andersen's courageous heroine, she only dreams of robbers, of reindeer, of  a girl with a knife. Happy end is a law of fairy tales: Kai and Lucia  reunites again but where are promised perfect beauty and perfect happiness.  The happy 'ever after' exists only in words (or in longing) but not in  reality. There were love lost and some kind of reconciliation. But there  was no real redemption and so there is no real perfection. Is a human being  so weak today, is he/she powerless to face the evil of the world? In last  chapter Tiburon recalls his childhood, the time when a child sees 'the  brave new world' without its shortcomings. And previously, somewhere in the  middle of the novel, he told us that the author who writes fairy tales  distorts reality. 'It is, after all, possible that distortions may make  something clear about form'. Nooteboom's opinion concerning modern world is  far from optimistic. But nevertheless he believes that Kai and Lucia can be  happy together after their ordeal. But a way to new perfect happiness will  not be so short and easy as it was in the fairy tale. A wonderful novel!	2000-01-19
US	50645617	R3A4HQPEUEBR3A	0156003945	696833954	Rituals (Harvest Book)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Human Rituals in Godless World	This small splendid book is full of ideas. Which is the main one? What is this novel about? A Bildungsroman. An import of human sexuality. An up-to-date evolution of Nietzsche's concept of &quot;the death of God&quot;. A fate of art in modern society. A trip through time - the fifties, sixties, seventies... Confronted with soullessness of official religion Inni Wintrop, a protagonist of the book, Arnold and Philip Taads, two other main characters of the novel, lost their belief in God, but in cold emptiness and animosity of godless world they created their own rituals. Arnold Taads designed a ritual of strict time regulations of loneliness where even his former lover was not permitted to come in when she had appeared ten minutes before appointed time. Philip Taads turned to Japanese cults &quot;stemmed from a culture and a tradition that were not his and could never become his&quot;. He devised his own East considering the real Japan a spoiled one. They both started with dislike to the milieu which inevitably turned into hatred pointed towards the whole world including themselves. This self-made rituals helped them only in one occasion - to commit suicides in conspicuous but rather stagy style. For Inni Wintrop women became his religion. In incessant love-making he lost something very important that makes Love. His sexual promiscuous rituals destroyed his marriage and put him on the verge of death in unsuccessful suicide. The tragic fate of Arnold and Philip Taads, his own meaningless life showed Inni fallaciousness of universal hatred but he still had no answers to the crucial questions of human existence in godless world. I recommend this book to everyone - the beautiful and sad novel of wise Dutch author Cees Nooteboom.	2000-01-18
US	50645617	RF0B6ORLR9IVE	0393315606	569349859	Morality Play (Norton Paperback Fiction)	Books	3	9	11	N	N	A novel of mystery or a mistery of a novel?	Barry Unsworth starts his novel excellently. A renegade monk Nicholas Barber, a protagonist of the novel, promises us a thrilling story and author's splendid descriptions of characters vouch for its first-rate  implementation. Attracted by the lure of money, a troupe of travelling  players makes a decision to perform impromptu play based on circumstances  of a real murder happened in town. But their inability to lie on the stage  before the concerned audience gives them chance to approach a clue of the  murder with every new performance. Brilliant plot! The medieval mystery  story transforms into paean in praise of actors' mettle. But something  happens in last chapters of the novel. And unfortunately it happens not  with the characters of the novel but with the author himself. As if Mr  Unsworth lost all interest in his book and last chapters were written by  someone who only vaguely understood author's initial conception. A mystery  aficionado can untimely guess the felon and his motives. A reader who  prefers serious novels will be disappointed by the finale where, in order  to tie up a few loose ends, the author quietly abandons most of his  characters in a hostile castle without any regret.  Influence of Umberto  Eco's &quot;The Name Of The Rose&quot; is beyond all question. But Eco's  novel is more profound, intellectual and interesting.	2000-01-05
US	50645617	R2WW834HUZGYLJ	0151000980	488398806	The Following Story	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Masterpiece of modern literature	I've come across this book quite inadvertently (or serendipitously taking into account the results)attracted by its European Literary Prize. But from the first page I was fascinated by this literary masterpiece of previously  unknown (for me) author. It is a love story dressed in apparel of modern  psychology and philosophy, overwhelming beautiful and devastatingly sad,  absolutely devoided of schmaltz. This incredibly succinct book includes  stupendous magnitude of contemplations and reflections, metaphors and  symbols, images and emotions. Its composition is perfect - from humorous  observations of ostentatious misanthrope nonplussed by extraordinary  awaking in a memorable place to the pinnacle of genuine understanding of  human tragedy of classical scope where jealousy and vengeance generate  distorted passion and destroy real love. Its language is exquisite, the  language of the sincere poet. It is the book which you'll want to reread  when the last phrase still reverberates in your mind. It is one of the best  books I've ever read, chef d'oeuvre of intelligent, perspicacious and  generous author.	2000-01-04
US	50645617	R2F6EPUPUSAMAG	0374239622	980961835	Quarantine: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Something happened in the desert	It is a story of five quarantiners (Jesus is the fifth one) who appeared in the desert for fast and prayers, of devilish dealer Musa (sadist and raper) and his poor pregnant wife who were abandoned in the desert by their  treacherous relatives. Jesus healed Musa on the first day  and died on the  30th day of his strict fast. Musa received everything he wanted. It seems  that the mankind represented in its vices and good intentions by four  quarantiners and the pregnant woman was subjugated by Devil and forsaken by  Savior. But something happened in the desert during the night Jesus died.  Something extraordinary that foretell great hereafter. Vanquished human  beings regain their potency to oppose illness, despair, evil. They see  Jesus alive. Even Musa takes off his apparels of nearly absolute evil and  appears as a corrupted man who against his own will dreams of his preaching  about marvelous healer instead of his ordinary market dealer's haggle. It  is impossible to estimate this book from a standpoint of orthodox religion,  it will be full of heresies. It is also impossible to give such estimate to  the evangelic chapters of Bulgakov's &quot;Master and Margarita&quot;. Both  books differ from New Testament in details. But both perfectly harmonize  with the spirit of the Gospel. I'll recommend this book to my friends if I  have its Russian translation. It is a very good book and I give only four  stars (I prefer to give 4 1/2) in comparison with my favorite Roy's  &quot;The God of Small Things&quot;.	1999-12-24
US	50645617	R1C07WPEY672H4	0060193409	876694899	Breakfast on Pluto	Books	4	17	23	N	N	Sanity of a pervert in perverted world sanity	To tell the truth, I've opened this book only because it was shortlisted for the 1998 Booker Prize. I was disappointed from the very start - perverted hero, distorted English, weird plot. Modern novels are crowded  today with gays, lesbians and all other kinds of sexual minorities as if  straight Homo sapiens is vanishing from surface of the Earth. As if the  author couldn't find normal heroes and normal words to tell his readers  about problems of Northern Ireland. But nevertheless I finished my reading  and changed my opinion in the end. Because Pat Braden, the hero of the  book, transvestite and male prostitute, is the one who is sane in this  perverted world where the blood streams and bombs explode, where people  hate each other with inclination for consolidation only to exterminate  anyone who differs from them. Pat, abandoned by mother, repudiated by  father and unloved by most people, in his search for love is more human  than his surroundings. The world is not so beautiful place to live in,  Patrick McCabe tells us, sometimes it only a bit differs from abattoir, but  it will not come to the end while its exhausted inhabitants still hope for  love. The book includes really excellent pages, especially the inserted  story of a man who crossed the border in pursuit for love but was tortured  and killed by human (or unhuman) intolerance. By and large, this book is  more worthy of Booker Prize than Ian McEwan's cold satire.	1999-12-03
