US	50644586	R2DKM88NXC9DHX	1903436591	930167934	King Lear (Arden Shakespeare: Third Series)	Books	4	14	17	N	N	Five stars for the play	The rating of four stars is for the edition (R.A. Foakes's); the play is one of the greatest tragedies ever written, and of course deserves at least five stars.<br />It is not easy to find a a truly satisfactory edition of this play. An advantage of R.A. Foakes's is that he offers us a &quot;conflated&quot; text, i.e. one that aims to reconstruct something like what Shakespeare originally wrote by taking elements from the best two early printings rather than giving us those separately or by settling for the one rather than the other. I don't think, though, that Foakes's reconstruction is nearly as convincing as that of earlier editors who presented conflated texts. I am often unhappy about his glosses, too, and about his rather &quot;trendy&quot; introduction. Even so, the introduction and the notes do give us most of what we need, so long as we approach this material with independence of mind.<br />The PLAY is the thing, and whichever text we read it in (even, for example, in a text based just on that in the Folio), it is a great and moving work. Lear is an ageing king (about 80+), whose life has been sheltered and pampered. Although this equips him badly for &quot;real&quot; life, he is not intrinsically the evil tyrant that much current criticism tends to suggest - even his authoritarianism seems a matter of habit rather than anything else. At the beginning of the play he foolishly decides that he will give each of his three daughters a part of his kingdom. His intention had been to give the youngest daughter, Cordelia, with whom he planned to spend his &quot;retirement&quot;, the biggest portion. However, rather than simply proceeding with his plan, he asks his daughters to declare the degree of their love for him, and this is where tangible trouble starts.<br />Goneril and Regan, both flatterers who seek their own interest at all times, butter him up, but Cordelia, who is honest, offends Lear's ego by refusing to follow her sisters' phoney example. He then offers the two eldest daughters 50% each, and disinherits Cordelia. Soon Goneril and Regan, contrary to what had been arranged, refuse to give him hospitality, and plan his death. Cordelia, though badly treated by him, tries to rescue her father, and the two are reconciled in a most moving scene, but she is killed and carried onto the stage in an immensely painful way by Lear, whose sanity had been temporarily destroyed by his daughters' and his own behaviour but who paradoxically gains new insight into life as a result of everything he experiences during the course of his suffering.<br />His story is paralleled by that of the Earl of Gloucester, who similarly wrongly prefers a bad child to one who is good, yet is treated well by the good child, Edgar, who like Cordelia shows that love consists of forgiveness and generosity rather than anything else. Just as Lear learned wisdom through madness, Gloucester acquires it after he has been blinded by some of the most evil people in the play.<br />It is in many ways a &quot;bleak&quot; play, not giving us any reason to hope that there is a God who looks after us in this life or one hereafter, and showing plenty of evil in humankind - amongst both women and men - but which also leaves no doubt as to what it means to be good, and provides consolation by showing us how good, and love, can endure even in the face of great provocation and suffering. - Joost Daalderrs the two eldest daughters 50% each, and disinherits Cordelia. Soon Goneril and Regan, contrary to what had been arranged, refuse to give him hospitality, and plan his death. Cordelia, though badly treated by him, tries to rescue her father, and the two are reconciled in a most moving scene, but she is killed and carried onto the stage in an immensely painful way by Lear, whose sanity had been temporarily destroyed by his daughters' and his own behaviour but who paradoxically gains new insight into life as a result of everything he experiences during the course of his suffering.<br />His story is paralleled by that of the Earl of Gloucester, who similarly wrongly prefers a bad child to one who is good, yet is treated well by the good child, Edgar, who like Cordelia shows that love consists of forgiveness and generosity rather than anything else. Just as Lear learned wisdom through madness, Gloucester acquires it after he has been blinded by some of the most evil people in the play.<br />It is in many ways a &quot;bleak&quot; play, not giving us any reason to hope that there is a God who looks after us in this life or one hereafter, and showing plenty of evil in humankind - amongst both women and men - but which also leaves no doubt as to what it means to be good, and provides consolation by showing us how good, and love, can endure even in the face of great provocation and suffering. - Joost Daalder	2003-10-19
US	50644586	RH07LNBG8SPT2	041315940X	98527877	SHAKESPEAREAN CONCEPTS	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Should be reprinted - buy second hand if you can	I am disappointed to note that this book is no longer in print. Though it was published in 1989, it has not, in fact, 'aged' in any important way. It is an extremely useful reference tool to readers of Shakespeare who want to find out what is meant by various conceptual terms they are likely to - or at least may - come across whenever Shakespeare is discussed in various traditional (or not so traditional) works of scholarship. For example, any such readers will at some stage encounter words like 'tragedy' or 'comedy'. Usually, when these terms are employed, they are not defined: some common understanding is assumed of 'what we all know'. But in practice 'tragedy' does NOT mean the same at all times, or in all minds, and Trussler offers excellent, clear, descriptive accounts of how the term has been used. I feel strongly that I would have benefited greatly from having this book at my disposal when around eighteen and a first-year university student, but also at later times. In fact I consult it pretty frequently even now (in my sixties), because it contains a wealth of information not easily found elsewhere, and certainly not in one convenient volume. Furthermore, although the author does not want the book to be read consecutively (the items are alphabetically arranged), it is wonderful to dip into and to learn from. Heartily recommended! Joost Daalder	2003-10-15
US	50644586	R3D3UGN0CTY4YT	0174436157	374267829	The Complete Works (Arden Shakespeare)	Books	3	19	23	N	N	Not the worst Complete Shakespeare	This is a strangely uneven volume. It is a commercial exercise rather than an educational or cultural one. The publisher has taken advantage of the justified reputation of the - not now really current, \\"mark II\\", not \\"mark III\\" - Arden editions of separate works to bring them together into one volume, but has left out a good deal which earned the reputation of those editions. The result is that this edition does offer, on the whole, exceptionally well edited TEXTS (i.e. versions with sensible and accurate modernisation of spelling and modernisation, exhibiting good choices among variants and necessary emendations), but not much else that is not also found, and usually in a superior form, in other collected editions of Shakespeare. The most appalling drawback of this volume is the absence of explanatory notes (which WERE present in the editions of individual works!), without which a modern reader will inevitably misunderstand much of what Shakespeare writes. A glossary (which is offered) is not a good substitute: modern readers usually do not KNOW what they do not understand, as much Elizabethan English looks like modern English but in fact means something different. Only explanatory notes can offer help in such cases, as the Arden editions of individual works very frequently did. Introductions to Shakespeare's work are superior in e.g. Bevington's edition. (See my review of that, which many readers have found helpful.) All in all, I would not recommend this edition, though someone who wants just the text could do worse (by buying one less well edited). If you are keen on the Arden editions of individual works, then buy those, as they offer so much more. New editions of individual works are in the process of appearing, though they are not always better than those they are seeking to replace. Several of the older Arden volumes, e.g. the *Hamlet* or the *Romeo and Juliet* (both from the 80s, so not really \\"old\\"), are hard to surpass, and a very good buy if you can getthem, often at low cost. Joost Daalder, Professor of English, Flinders University	2002-04-03
US	50644586	RJ14BI569A8PE	0140422137	805258970	The Complete Poems (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	29	31	N	N	Remains very satisfactory	I have used this edition of Marvell's poems for many years in teaching. I also once wrote a brief article about a mistake in it, but for the most part consider the edition very satisfactory. The appearance of *Andrew Marvell: Pastoral and Lyric Poems 1681* (University of Western Australian Press, 2000) has led me to re-appraise Donno's work. The UWA edition is really a selection, and its text is less good than Donno's, though it offers far more - and very rewarding - annotation. This should be of help for specialised work. But Donno offers perfectly adequate help to the average student; she presents ALL of the poems, and she does so in a responsibly modernised, clear text. This continues to be the edition which most academic teachers will want to prescribe, and it is of significance to scholars, too. - Joost Daalder, Professor of English, Flinders University (South Australia)	2001-12-29
US	50644586	R2O8LP52314CZM	0517053616	420218883	William Shakespeare: The Complete Works, Deluxe Edition	Books	1	38	43	N	N	A false-economy buy	To buy an unannotated Shakespeare volume like this, where even the quality of the text is in doubt, is a pure waste of money. Anyone who feels it is good enough to buy an unannotated text should at least make sure to get a good, well-edited one: for example, a second-hand copy of Peter Alexander's edition (the so-called \\"Tudor Edition\\", originally published by Collins in 1951). The text prepared by Alexander remains one of the very best.<br />It really does matter what text one buys, as various editions differ greatly in the quality of what they produce. It is by no means the case that all editions of Shakespeare offer the same text, as one would expect if one bought a work by a modern author. Furthermore, it is impossible to read Shakespeare - even if you are a specialist in Renaissance literature - without plenty of help, none of which is supplied in this edition. A good edition, like that produced by David Bevington, or the Riverside, will contain the following helpful components as a minimum: a comprehensive introduction to Shakespeare and his work generally; reasonably full analytical/interpretative introductions to individual works; lists of further reading (referring the reader to other helpful commentators); and above all - most essentially - useful explanatory notes on words, phrases, and sentences difficult to understand. Of these there are a great many. Anyone who approaches Shakespeare as a modern reader without knowledgde of the language of his period will soon find all sorts of words and grammatical usages that obviously are no longer current. But even more treacherous are those many instances of words that LOOK the same, but MEAN something very different, as a result of the fact that the meaning of words changes over time.<br />For all these reasons, then, readers should spend their money on a value-for-money buy, whether new or second-hand, and not waste it on a worthless volume of this nature. If you don't want to buy a well-annotated one-volume Shakespeare, buy well-annotated editions of individual works - e.g. those belonging to the Arden series, or the Oxford Shakespeare, or the New Cambridge.<br />These reflections are not, of course, criticisms of Shakespeare as an author, but purely of a useless edition like this. ...akespeare, buy well-annotated editions of individual works - e.g. those belonging to the Arden series, or the Oxford Shakespeare, or the New Cambridge.  <br />These reflections are not, of course, criticisms of Shakespeare as an author, but purely of a useless edition like this. ...	2001-10-10
US	50644586	R15IV45ACQTMDU	0520051696	45623583	Proverbial Language in English Drama Exclusive of Shakespeare, 1495-1616: An Index	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The classic inventory of proverbs in Renaissance dramatists	This large, very comprehensive book (about 800 pages) was published some years after the authors's well-known and excellent classic Shakespeare's Proverbial Language. It is compiled in much the same way, and does for other Renaissance dramatists what the earlier book did for Shakespeare. Hence, it seems to me appropriate to quote here what I wrote about the earlier book. Readers can, in essence, substitute for &quot;Shakespeare&quot;, in the review below, &quot;Renaissance dramatists&quot;. So here comes a repeat of my review of Shakespeare's Proverbial Language:<br />&quot;Many of today's readers - including many Shakespeare scholars - do not realise how frequently Shakespeare uses, or adapts, proverbs or similar sayings current and popular in his day. Thus, as not even the Oxford English Dictionary is strong in this area, a good reference book listing the proverbs we find in Shakespeare is quite indispensable: without it, we frequently cannot understand his originality and/or contact with 'folk wisdom&quot; of his day, and even run the risk - quite often - of simply misunderstanding what he says. This compilation by Dent is generally recognised as the best of its kind: while much help is also provided by M.P. Tilley's famous Dictionary of the Proverbs in England in the Sixteenth and Seventeenth Centuries (1950), and by F.P. Wilson's updated Oxford Dictionary of English Proverbs (1970), Dent is yet more comprehensive. He might have offered more explanation of the meaning of the proverbs, but usually that becomes clear from the many examples he quotes. A REPRINT IS VERY MUCH NEEDED.&quot; - Joost Daalder, Profesor of English, Flinders University (South Australia)	2001-10-10
US	50644586	R4F0XI7267C0I	1859283535	175079222	1: The Shakespearean International Yearbook: Where Are We Now in Shakespearean Studies?	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A very good analytical survey of recent work	...Undeterred, I nevertheless wish to recommend it. It should, in fact, be in every university library at least, and most scholars would benefit greatly from reading it. I have myself bought a copy, and am very pleased with it. The contributors are on the whole very much in the forefront of Shakespeare scholarship, and write about their subject with great authority and acumen. Each scholar surveys an area of work on Shakespeare, which creates a sensible division of labour, and allows the individual concerned not only to outline the major developments of recent times, but to do so analytically and critically, so that the reader not only finds out what has happened, but also what at least one skilled reader has to say about it. Future volumes will adopt a similar approach, so that over time we should get a pretty full picture of developments in Shakespeare studies in recent years. As noone can  - or would indeed be happy to - read ALL work on Shakespeare, even as it appears, it will remain necessary for all of us to receive guidance from informed scholars who have each intelligently read at least a well-defined PORTION of it over a number of years. That is the guidance which this book provides, and eminently so. - Joost Daalder, Professor of English, Flinders University (South Australia)	2001-10-02
US	50644586	R18K562AC85WUX	0198612583	341552322	The Compact Edition of The Oxford English Dictionary, Complete Text Reproduced Micrographically (in slipcase with reading glass) (v. 1-20)	Books	5	27	28	N	N	A priceless and immense storehouse of knowledge	Everyone who is seriously interested in studying and understanding English, of whatever kind and whatever period, should have this book. Anyone who is a PROFESSIONAL scholar of English MUST have it in order to carry out research, or even proper teaching. There is no equivalent to the OED, which is far more comprehensive than anything one might seek to compare it with. And this cheap edition is excellent value. I myself cannot use it without a magnifying glass, but that is only a minor inconvenience. The print is excellent for what it is, and not only is the price of the book low, but it is much handier to use than any other version of the OED.<br />The second edition (which this is) incorporates a fair bit of new material, but much more often on very recent words than old or \\"perennial\\" ones: for a reader like myself, chiefly interested in older words or older meanings of words still current, the essential work was in essence done, already, for the first edition. <br />A disappointing feature of the second (1991) edition (here under review) is that the opportunity was NOT used to do supplementary work in areas in which the OED's information had always been deficient. This is notably the case when one looks for explanations of words, or senses of words, held \\"indecent\\" at the time the original dictionary was compiled. Anyone who wishes to find out what e.g. bawdy quibbles in Shakespeare mean will have to look farther afield: the best (but very expensive and in some ways hard-to-use) book would be Gordon Williams's *Dictionary of Sexual Language amd Imagery in Shakespearean and Stuart Literature*, but Eric Partridge's *Shakespeare's Bawdy* is often helpful also, and much cheaper. But a good deal of work in this area still remains to be done: see e.g. Joost Daalder and Antony Telford Moore: \\"*Mandrakes* and *Whiblins* in *The Honest Whore*\\" (*Studies in Philology*, Fall 1997, 494-507). Another area where the OED is not strong is that of proverbs and sayings, for whichone needs to consult e.g. *The Oxford Dictionary of English Proverbs*.<br />But to say that the OED is not complete is not to suggest that it often lets one down. It does not, and especially its work on the HISTORY of words (their etymology, developing meanings, etc.) will never be replaced, and provides help which simply cannot be found anywhere else. Obviously, one will never regret owning this monumental, informative and stimulating work.<br />Readers should NOT assume that an abridged version will be an adequate replacement or only leave out inessentials: it is \\"the complete article\\" one should buy, nothing less.<br />The history of the creation of the OED is a fascinating subject by itself. A book offering great insight into its main lexicographer, James Murray, is *Caught in the Web of Words*, by Elisabeth Murray, which is well worth reading. - Joost Daalder, Professor of English, Flinders University (South Australia)	2001-10-02
US	50644586	R33ZFA6Z7MBR4G	0520038940	762829416	Shakespeare's Proverbial Language: An Index	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Excellent and essential reference tool	Many of today's readers - including many Shakespeare scholars - do not realise how frequently Shakespeare uses, or adapts, proverbs or similar sayings current and popular in his day. Thus, as not even the Oxford English Dictionary is strong in this area, a good reference book listing the proverbs we find in Shakespeare is quite indispensable: without it, we frequently cannot understand his originality and/or contact with 'folk wisdom&quot; of his day, and even run the risk - quite often - of simply misunderstanding what he says. This compilation by Dent is generally recognised as the best of its kind: while much help is also provided by M.P. Tilley's famous Dictionary of the Proverbs in England in the Sixteenth and Seventeenth Centuries (1950), and by F.P. Wilson's updated Oxford Dictionary of English Proverbs (1970), Dent is yet more comprehensive. He might have offered more explanation of the meaning of the proverbs, but usually that becomes clear from the many examples he quotes. A REPRINT IS VERY MUCH NEEDED. - Joost Daalder, Profesor of English, Flinders University (South Australia)	2001-10-02
US	50644586	R15VEYKTK055IM	0485113937	719820181	A Dictionary of Sexual Language and Imagery in Shakespearean and Stuart Literature: Three Volume Set Volume I A-F Volume II G-P Volume III Q-Z (Athlone Shakespeare Dictionary)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	The most exhaustive treatment of its subject	This monumental work in three large volumes is the one which I use most frequently when wanting to inform myself on the use of \\"bawdy\\", or sexually \\"indecent\\" language or imagery, in Renaissance literature (especially plays, but also poetry like Donne's). The author has for one thing assembled a much larger range of examples to illustrate sexual meanings than are provided by any other scholars. In the case of this area of language, that really matters. Many readers, even today, vastly underrate the frequency of sexual meanings in e.g. Shakespeare or other Renaissance dramatists. The truth is that they and their audiences were almost addictively fond of sexual jokes, and these often are not understood by people today, or at best glimpsed as just possibly a local \\"quibble\\". What Williams shows is that most of such instances of word-play are not at all incidental, but so frequent that one can in fact speak of a sexual \\"language\\" or \\"code\\" which was clearly widely shared and understood during the period he covers. This can only be done by producing MANY examples of a particular usage, as he does. He also demonstrates that many hitherto \\"unsuspected\\" words frequently carried a sexual meaning. Neither he nor I want to suggest that the sexual meaning is usually the ONLY (or even the DOMINANT) meaning in all but a limited number of words which are \\"merely\\" sexual. Our point is, rather, that many seemingly \\"innocuous\\" words are so frequently used in a sexual sense that that sense should not be seen as something occasional or additional, but as commonplace and central.<br />The dictionary is, for all its comprehensiveness, by no means complete. See for example Joost Daalder and Antony Telford Moore, \\"*Mandrakes* and *Whiblins* in *The Honest Whore*\\" (*Studies in Philology*, Fall 1997, 494-507) as a discussion of words not adequately covered - or understood - by Williams. Another word he does not list (or at least not as a separate entry) is *thatch* for \\"pubic hair\\". And there certainly are other omissions. Nevertheless, this work far more often helps one out than it lets one down, and it is difficult to see how any editor of a Renaissance play containing sexual punning (and many do!) can afford to ignore this work. All university libraries should own it as an important reference tool. - Joost Daalder, Profesor of English, South Australia	2001-10-02
US	50644586	R1LX3DWNCDL5KI	0198600925	197102687	A Dictionary of English Surnames	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Indispensable if needed for research	Obviously someone who wishes to give a first name to a child is not the most likely person to consult this very learned tome: for those people P. Hanks and F. Hodges's *Dictionary of First Names* (also published by Oxford) is the appropriate book (though David Pickering's *Penguin Dictionary of First Names* is also very good). Obviously, if the first name you have in mind is also a surname, then this reference tool, too, is likely to be useful.<br />The amount of work that has gone into this volume is daunting, particularly when it comes to the mention of early sources in which names have been found. Some of that material is perhaps more of interest to the specialist than the general user, but in any case it is valuable. The Introduction, on names generally, is extremely informative and interesting. <br />For myself, I most often need to know what a surname might mean (most of them do have meaning), and I suspect that this is what others, too, frequently want to know. For example, are those many Australians who have the surname *Smyth* in effect carrying the surname *Smith*? Yes, indeed: the *y* is merely a spelling variant, which many welcome because it suggests a name other than *Smith* (though quite a few people called *Smyth* don't themselves know that *Smyth*= *Smith*!). <br />Does this dictionary reveal what one wants to know? It does, but not always in the handiest way possible. It has an entry *Smye, Smythe*, but not one for *Smyth*: one needs to know something about the early stages of the language to realise that if *Smythe* is an early form of *Smith*, then so is *Smyth* likely to be, and if one then turns to *Smith* one will find *Smyth* there. So not everyone will necessarily immediately discover the material searched for - but most people are likely to do so eventually. All in all , I recommend the book heartily, and use it often. - Joost Daalder, Professor of English, Flinders University (South Australia)	2001-10-01
US	50644586	R253KFEN1IUVJ5	0198600941	250195200	A Concise Dictionary of First Names (Oxford paperback reference)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Good, but why use the reduced version?	Hanks and Hodges are real scholars, who however communicate their information clearly and intelligibly. I cannot see any obvious need for a CONCISE version of their *Dictionary of First Names*, first published  by Oxford University Press in 1990 and regularly reprinted. That book is only just over 400 pages, so by no means too long. It is the longer version which I personally regularly use for my research - mostly in Renaissance literature - and I have found it an excellent source of reference. Those looking for names for their children, too, or wanting information about their own names, will rarely be disappointed. You find out readily what a name means, what its derivation is, who have been famous bearers of it, etc. Wonderful for browsing, apart from anything else! I also often use David Pickering's *Penguin Dictionary of First Names*, which is similarly useful, but which Amazon does not appear to supply. (A matter of copyright restrictions?) - Joost Daalder, Professor of English, Flinders University (South Australia)	2001-09-25
US	50644586	R3HVV1PWX28NLT	0838315712	774263423	Shakespearian Grammar	Books	5	12	12	N	N	The classic on its subject	This book should be in print, ready for keen students of Shakespeare to buy. I have a reprint by Dover, which I bought in 1967 and have intensively used; it is still in very good edition, after all those years, and was very cheap when I bought it. An enterprising publisher should do something similar at *this* time! Although Abbott wrote the book well over a century ago, it has not actually dated, but remains the one Shakespeare Grammar used by virtually all scholars and editors for guidance on the subject, and to refer other readers to. The language used by Abbott is not too technical to make his work accessible to university students, as well, though unfortunately these days few people study any kind of grammar. The book does NOT, as one might hope, offer interpretations of all the passages in Shakespeare which are notably difficult because of their grammar/syntax. It DOES, however, very well explain which grammatical features of Elizabethan English differ from our own; why those differences matter; and why we are sure to understand Shakespeare far better if we are aware of them. The material is very well arranged, in clearly identifiable paragraphs. Anyone who bothers to read the book right through will certainly come to understand Shakespeare much better as a result, though most readers will use this guide for reference only, and still benefit. There is also a good and useful section on prosody at the end of the book. Very much worth buying if you can get it, in whatever decent shape; and should be an essential part of any library containing books on Shakespeare. There is, in fact, no competitor or alternative. - Joost Daalder, Professor of English, Flinders University (South Australia)	2001-09-25
US	50644586	R16NKYINXOM98E	0700606939	821139846	Shakespeare: A Study and Research Guide	Books	5	12	12	N	N	An outstanding guide	&quot;A classic in the field; in fact, it has the field to itself. Every scholar in Shakespeare studies knows about this volume.&quot;--William Carroll, author of *The Metamorphoses of Shakespearean Comedy*<BR>I am certain that this book does indeed have the field to itself; and the assertion that every scholar in Shakespeare studies knows about this volume is probably no exaggeration either. This is a truly excellent publication, and it can safely be said that every serious scholar in Shakespeare studies SHOULD know it. The book has a final section on the writing of a research paper which is very sound and helpful, but the bulk of the material is, quite rightly, concerned with the task of guiding anyone who wants to get a good idea of what kind of thing has already been said about Shakespeare by scholars who, whether &quot;right&quot; or &quot;wrong&quot;, have made a substantial contribution in their work on the author. Obviously there is a real difficulty deciding what should be included in a book of this nature, but the selection has been wisely made. Very sensibly, there is no over-emphasis on what is recent. Thus S.T. Coleridge, for example, who remains one of the most important of the early commentators, is included, but so is e.g. Stephen Greenblatt, who is among the best-known modern ones. It is striking, too, how objective, accurate, and clear the authors are in their descriptions of what scholars have to say. This is no mean feat, since they are dealing with a very wide range of material, and include authors whom many would not be nearly so objective and factual about. As for the fact that the book is now a few years old: that is no reason for not buying it. After all, the few years NOT covered are only a very short span in the wider scheme of things, and it is certainly possible to find out about more recent publications by consulting e.g. reviews in *Shakespeare Quarterly*. At the least, this guide will direct one to the more important publications until the time of publication, and it is possible to decide from the descriptions supplied whether or not an item discussed here is likely to supply one's need. The book thus saves one a good deal of time as well as informing one about major statements and trends in Shakespeare scholarship; it is an essential tool for anyone doing serious work on the author - certainly if not a beginner, though even a beginner willl find the book accessible and informative enough to be of use. - Joost Daalder, Professor of English, Flinders University (South Australia)	2001-09-20
US	50644586	R28JFEOMMX8UB0	0395858224	887695609	The Riverside Shakespeare	Books	4	131	157	N	N	A solid if limited edition	I would not myself prescribe this edition if I needed to choose one for, say, a year-long course on Shakespeare, but it is respectable and valuable nonetheless, and I have never minded my students using it. In comparison to the Norton, it is far more sensible, level-headed, and sharper in its selection of what is relevant to the needs of most readers. It offers help in a way that for example the Oxford unannotated Complete Works does not. The level of scholarship is usually very sound, in all areas. However, the edition lacks the required intellectual life, to my mind, which it should have and which I find in David Bevington's edition (and, despite some perversities, in the Norton); it is in some ways a bit perfunctory, unenterprising, and not sufficiently incisive in its insights. This is also an edition which at times unduly tends to favour the interests of academics over those of ordinary readers. The text, notably, preserves a number of features which are quite unnecessarily archaic to a modern reader. Who benefits from being faced with such spellings as &quot;bumbast&quot; rather than &quot;bombast&quot;? The introductions are more often useful or predictable than truly engaging, and the explanatory notes are in several places not as informative as they should be. Even so, this is an edition of considerable merit, and one that those who for some mysterious reason do not wish to buy David Bevington's excellent edition would probably be best served by. - Joost Daalder, Professor of English, Flinders University, South Australia	2001-09-12
US	50644586	RGJQTNGYDOWEA	0393970876	184180191	The Norton Shakespeare: Based on the Oxford Edition	Books	3	79	112	N	N	A mixed bag	I would in fact prefer to award this 3.5 stars, but the Amazon system seems to compel one to choose between 3 and 4, and I think 4 is too generous. To begin with the text, there is no doubt that this is not the best Shakespeare to buy. It is to a large extent based on the Oxford Shakespeare, which - quite rightly, in my view - has attracted a lot of criticism for some of its peculiarities. Thus, for example, Oxford prints TWO versions of *King Lear*, the quarto text and that of the folio. Norton rightly takes issue with this, and produces the kind of conflated text that most readers would want, but adds the other two AS WELL (so we are offered THREE versions!). This kind of thing is, in truth, academic self-indulgence - it shows an undue respect for academic concerns which to most readers are not of the slightest interest. There is a similar tendency to pay scant regard to what most readers really want and need in the Introduction: that tells us a good deal about Shakespeare's time, and the material is interesting, but it is not often shown to be relevant, or necessary, to an understanding of what Shakespeare writes. The explanatory annotation accompanying the texts is not bad, but often inferior to that of comparable editions, notably Bevington's. The introductions to individual plays are usually stimulating, but not necessarily convincing. Thus Greenblatt on the one hand says about Macbeth's murder of Duncan, &quot;That he does so without adequate motivation, that he murders a man toward whom he should be grateful and protective, deepens the mystery ...&quot; (p. 2558), yet adds a few lines later: &quot;Macbeth and Lady Macbeth act on ambition ...&quot;. Precisely, that IS Macbeth's motivation for the murder, as Macbeth himself points out unequivocally in 1.7.25-7 - there is, therefore, absolutely nothing mysterious about his motivation. The edition does, however, offer a number of good references to other writings about Shakespeare. All in all, I do consider 3.5stars is a fair &quot;grade&quot;, in seeking to assess this for the benefit of the majority of readers looking for a complete Shakespeare to buy; but I consider David Bevington's by far the best edition of the complete works, then the Riverside, and only then this one - though, with its annotations, it is certainly more useful than the Oxford edition on which it is based. - Joost Daalder, Professor of English, Flinders University, South Australia	2001-09-11
US	50644586	R2AMDBBDZMG2H6	0198711905	420218883	William Shakespeare: The Complete Works (The Oxford Shakespeare)	Books	3	36	40	N	N	Cannot compete against better editions	The modernised one-volume Oxford Complete Works edited by Wells and Taylor has little of significance to offer that is not bettered by its competitors. Its general introduction is thin and bland, and the introductions to individual plays amount to little more than one-page notes. There are no explanatory notes of any kind to accompany the words on the page, and the glossary at the end of the book offers very little help indeed. Thus readers are largely left to flounder on their own. There are certainly, as much publicity has assured us, a number of new textual features, but these are often characterised by a craving for novelty rather than that they have proved convincing or useful to many readers: fewer and fewer readers today really want two texts of *King Lear*, and the number of people inclined to believe the editorial arguments in favour of the so-called &quot;two-text theory&quot; is decreasing rather than growing; similarly, there are no truly good reasons for calling Falstaff &quot;Sir John Oldcastle&quot;, etc. As the scholars who have put the edition together are very reputable and their handling of the text does deserve the attention of academics, scholars like myself do, of course, want to own a copy. But I use it sporadically, and hardly feel like recommending it to the non-specialist, who will be much better served by buying, especially, David Bevington's edition, or else - though very much as a second choice - the Riverside, or, failing that - and very much as  a third choice - the Norton. - Joost Daalder, Professor of English, Flinders University (South Australia)	2001-09-06
US	50644586	RCUWRXE4W735W	0393900576	489124121	The Spanish Tragedy (New Mermaid Series)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Excellent edition, excellent play	J.R. Mulryne's edition of *The Spanish Tragedy* is without a doubt the best that may at present be bought: informative, helpful, intelligent and accurate in introducing the text, presenting it, and glossing difficult words and phrases where necessary. The play is among the most exciting and artistic of its period. Kyd writes, and constructs his plot, with a level of skill comparable to that of Shakespeare, who was much influenced by *The Spanish Tragedy*, particularly in writing *Hamlet*, which is possibly yet &quot;richer&quot;, but undoubtedly less clear and focused. Kyd shows us in an extremely sophisticated way the workings of revenge, both at an earthly and at a supernatural level. From the beginning the audience knows, in a way that the characters do not, that the supernatural world will insist on revenge. The pain of those who suffer injustice here on earth and clamour for revenge is painful to behold. Ultimately, however, in a baffling way, evildoers are punished: Hieronimo, the main character, manages to take matters into his own hands after exhausting all other possibilities, and thus ironically enacts the wishes of the higher powers. The FORM of Hieronimo's revenge is extraordinarily interesting: under the cloak of art - of a theatrical plot - he manages to kill his evil opponents quite easily. The tension between &quot;art&quot; and &quot;life&quot; is thus handled by Kyd in a very innovative fashion which still shocks modern spectators and readers. The role of language, too, is called into question: much of the play demonstrates that in real life finally action does speak louder than words, which often do not make their point or simply get ignored. Any reader who wants to get a notion of the superb quality of plays written by Shakespeare's contemporaries is certain to admire and enjoy this striking work of art. - Joost Daalder, Professor of English, Flinders University, South Australia	2001-05-25
US	50644586	R3FTFDDOUIBKW8	0719043573	175154530	The Duchess of Malfi: John Webster (Revels Student Editions MUP)	Books	5	13	16	N	N	A superb play	Of the \\"popular\\" editions of this play that by John Russell Brown (Revels Student Editions) and Elizabeth Brennan (New Mermaids) are both useful, though it must be said that no edition as yet does adequate justice to Webster's compexity - notably his presentation of Ferdinand. The play is both a tour de force and profoundly searching. It is perhaps the first major feminist play in England, with the Duchess presented as an outstandingly noble even if fallible character, the victim of her two evil \\"partriarchal\\" brothers. Of these, her twin brother Ferdinand is among the most intelligently conceived characters to appear on the Jacobean stage. Unknowingly (i.e. in his \\"unconscious\\") he is incestuously in love with his sister. Unable to cope with this \\"taboo\\" feeling, he tries to \\"repress\\" it unsuccessfully, and finally his ... \\"libido\\" comes to express itself in a violent wish to destroy her if he cannot ... own her, and he ends up believing himself to be a wolf, attempting to dig up her grave after he has had her killed. Obviously, then, this is a very Freudian work - anticipating Freud's insights brilliantly by some four centuries, and without lapsing into Freud's extravagantly improbable claims about such matters as the Oedipus complex. It is the working of the unconcious, as a reservoir of what we do not understand and cannot control, which is quite central in this play, and Ferdinand's ... confusion is potently contrasted with his sister's openminded, acknowledged and generous ... health. An outstanding play, recommended as among the best of its time (comparable in quality and interest to e.g. *Othello* or *The Changeling*). - Joost Daalder, Professor of English, Flinders University, South Australia	2001-05-25
US	50644586	R1J6PSGNO9QKSC	0394701623	532778847	The Elizabethan World Picture: A Study of the Idea of Order in the Age of Shakespeare, Donne and Milton	Books	4	28	37	N	N	Onesided and simplistic but enduringly useful	When I was a student some four decades ago this book was often regarded as having proved unequivocally that the simplistic hierarchical view of the world presented by Tillyard as Elizabethan was indeed that; that all Elizabethans, without question, fully held the beliefs he imputed to them.<br />What is clear is that a number of Elizabethans did hold such beliefs, and that Tillyard does prove as much. But anyone reading e.g. Shakespeare's *Richard II* with Tillyard's book in mind could see that it did not &quot;work&quot;: that Shakepeare is divided in his response to events. Richard may see himself as protected by &quot;divine right&quot; - by God himself - but the play leaves one in doubt whether he actually is. Yet Bolingbroke's actions - although Richard gives him the throne too readily - can easily be seen to be those of a usurper. Such complexities cannot be resolved by an appeal to Tillyard's book, and shows its very severe limits: an intelligent Elizabethan like Shakespeare could obviously see beyond Tillyard's &quot;model&quot;!<br />However, the influence of Tillyard's book been enormous, and much modern (or should that be &quot;post-modern&quot;?) nonsense that would see Shakespeare as purely &quot;subversive&quot; or providing &quot;Shakespearean texts&quot; which serve as a &quot;site&quot; for &quot;conflict&quot; within his society can either be refuted by knowledge of Tillyard's model or be seen as nothing other than a modification of it, whereby the model remains structurally intact but has different values assigned to it (along the lines of &quot;we all know that the Elizabethans thought hierarchically, but you - a right-winger - approve of such a view whereas I, as a left-winger, don't&quot;).<br />Readers interested in the Reniassance who don't own a copy should get one, as this remains a very important text to refer to, containing much valuable and unreplaced information. - Joost Daalder, Professor of English, Flinders University, South Australia	2001-04-10
US	50644586	R2YDAI1WIGGMHT	0174434693	43217624	Hamlet (The Arden Edition of the Works of William Shakespeare)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	The best edition of Hamlet on offer (and to quarrel with)	Both as an academic teacher and as a researcher I have used Jenkins's edition regularly for nearly twenty years, and continue to marvel at the wealth of scholarly material - factual and interpretative - which it offers. I consider that no other edition of *Hamlet* is remotely as useful, though I frequently find myself in disagreement with this great editor.<br />Jenkins's text is eminently satisfying: sensibly and responsibly based, and scrupulously and intelligently modernised, even if one prefers (as I do) e.g. &quot;solid&quot; to &quot;sullied&quot;.<br />His introduction is informative and well-considered, though I must admit I find his interpretative view of the play, both there and in several of his longer notes, at times less than penetrating. I feel he idealises Hamlet too much, misjudges the failure of Hamlet's play-within-the-play, and is less than openminded when it comes to making sense of e.g. the sexual elements in Ophelia's dreams (which are hard to interpret decisively, but certainly more significant than his cursory view suggests). On the other hand his information on ghosts, for example, is highly valuable and useful.<br />His shorter notes, explaining many difficult words and contemporary concepts, are always illuminating, frequently &quot;spot on&quot;, and usually helpful even if one disagrees, in that he provides most of the information which one needs even if one ultimately arrives at a different judgement from his.<br />If banished or imprisoned and allowed only one edition of *Hamlet* I'd take this one. Not only because it is the best, but because it would help me in spending many weeks, months, or years on this riddling, frustrating, but endlessly fascinating play. Jenkins's edition is a monument to late twentieth century scholarship, and will undoubtedly continue to be recognised as such. - Joost Daalder, Professor of English, Flinders University, South Australia	2001-04-10
US	50644586	R1FJWAXQT1U0E6	0393007367	103876003	Shakespeare Our Contemporary (Norton Library)	Books	4	23	26	N	N	Limited but historically important	The value of this very influential book to an individual reader will depend greatly on what that reader hopes to find in it.  Someone looking for close, accurate handling of Shakespeare's texts, and thus for reliable guidance on what is found in them, will most of the time feel disappointed: for a book taken so seriously by so many, the criticism on display is actually often surprisingly loose, vague, and general.<br />The importance of the book when it appeared lay in the fact that the author identified certain matters in Shakespeare which earlier critics with sunnier visions of life had usually not seen or wished to avoid seeing. This one must grant Kott, I think, even if his own views are onesided and say often more about him and his experiences than about Shakespeare. There is a kernel of accuracy and truth in what he observes, and this remains something of lasting value.<br />Readers who wish to understand the development of views on Shakespeare since WWII will find this an essential book to know, as so much comment on Shakespeare which today gets offered as new and &quot;radical&quot;, especially in relation to the politics of power, can be traced back to Kott, although fashionably extreme views on *The Tempest* as simply a &quot;post-colonial&quot; text with Prospero as nothing other than a wicked imperialist and Caliban as the noble savage who can do no wrong are a good deal more simplistic than anything presented by Kott. Still, much of what is extreme today can be seen as having some of its origins in his thinking. - Joost Daalder, Professor of English, Flinders University, South Australia	2001-04-10
US	50644586	RUK5DMP4BYXPE	0140530193	266667767	Shakespearean Tragedy: Lectures on Hamlet, Othello, King Lear, and Macbeth (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	45	47	N	N	Still hugely important	(Amazon should spell Macbeth's name correctly - not as &quot;MacBeth&quot;!) This has for almost a century been, and continues to be today, one of the most important books on Shakespeare's best and most popular tragedies. For much of the time since around 1930, it has been severely criticised: on the grounds, chiefly, that the author is too much inclined to respect or have sympathy for the heroes (which he is), and that he treats them too much like &quot;real&quot; people (which he does, and which they aren't). <br />Yet, for all that, Bradley's approach to the heroes as though they were characters we all know has revealed a great deal about what Shakespeare has made those characters, and those who see the characters as complex and psychologically worth exploring identify a more significant aspect of Shakespeare's interest in humans and his art than do many of Bradley's opponents. Moreover, the detail of his examinations of the texts makes it possible to probe much with him, even if one continues to question or quarrel with him on the way (and he is not infrequently demonstrably wrong). Thus this remains a work of criticism which is inspirational and searching even if at times quite wrongheaded; and every serious reader  of Shakespeare (including actors and directors) should read this book and own it. - Joost Daalder, Professor of English, Flinders University, South Australia	2001-04-10
US	50644586	R1BGIQBU6OXLV9	0415050766	555030453	Shakespeare's Bawdy (Routledge Classics) (Volume 106)	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Still a classic of its kind, though showing its age	Modern well-annotated editions of Shakespeare (like those in the New Cambridge, Oxford, or Arden series) often explain bawdy usages in Shakespeare which today's reader cannot - yet should - understand. Even so, this area is still often comparatively weak in current commentaries, and this classic provides a great deal of help to the reader who wishes to know more. For a reader who does not use annotated editions at all, the glossary is yet more useful, though such a reader will often not even begin to think about instances of bawdy which would have been readily apparent and intelligible to an Elizabethan. Much does not get explained in Partridge: in that case a curious reader will often find the relevant exposition in Gordon Williams's *A Dictionary of Sexual Language and Imagery in Shakespearean and Stuart Literature*. However, as that is an expensive and difficult-to-use book, many readers would still serve themselves well by buying Partridge's guide. - Joost Daalder, Professor of English, Flinders University, South Australia	2001-04-07
US	50644586	RBMGWVMY9USZ2	048622726X	575945445	001: Shakespeare Lexicon and Quotation Dictionary: A Complete Dictionary of All the English Words, Phrases, and Constructions in the Works of the Poet (Volume 1 A-M	Books	5	65	66	N	N	Remains an excellent tool	I assign a higher rating to Schmidt's lexicon than to C.T. Onions's *Shakespeare Glossary* (which I have also reviewed) for the reason that, although both compendiums by now do show their age, Schmidt's two volumes (one of course needs N-Z with this one) are all in all in many ways more comprehensive and informative than Onions's single-volume work (even after its updating by Eagleson). <br />Readers of Shakespeare should NOT assume that if they use an unannotated edition (e.g. the Oxford Complete Works) they will understand everything they read if only they consult Schmidt or Onions or both. For one thing, many words in Shakespeare look intelligible from a modern viewpoint, but in fact had a different meaning in Shakespeare's day: an uninitiated reader will miss many such instances if s/he does not use good annotated editions by expert scholars, who provide glosses for well-considered and essential reasons. And I do not even dwell on the need to be aware of bawdy puns (see my review of Onions), or of other specific usages (e.g. legal terms), on which a good deal of new work has been done in recent years. Therefore, purchase of valuable volumes like these should be seen as SUPPLEMENTARY to the use of good, carefully annotated editions. - Joost Daalder, Professor of English, Flinders University, South Australia	2001-04-07
US	50644586	R1DZ0RDPV217Q3	0198125216	646392592	A Shakespeare Glossary	Books	4	38	39	N	N	Good, but could do yet more	The original version of this glossary, done by C.T. Onions, was certainly a landmark publication. Indeed, there are some things in it (not many) which over the years I have discovered Eagleson has unaccountably omitted in his revised version. On the whole, Eagleson does, however, offer quite a bit of extra material, though the claims made on this score by both the publisher and some reviewers seem to me exaggerated (and I have used Onions's text and Eagleson side by side for many years).<br />How good is the present compendium for today's purposes? Certainly very good for what it does within its limits, but those limits are significant. By now there have, for example, been a good many books proving the existence of bawdy puns and various related kinds of slang within Shakespeare, and for proper understanding of that author a glossary should certainly explain such Elizabethan usages. In common with *The Oxford English Dictionary* (for which Onions did a great deal of important work), *A Shakespeare Glossary* is - and remains even in its present form - largely silent and uninformative on these matters, with the result that modern readers who look up a word suspecting that it may have a bawdy sense now no longer current will find themselves almost always frustrated (in strictly scholarly terms!). <br />Such readers will have to turn to e.g. Eric Partridge's *Shakespeare's Bawdy*, which remains invaluable, but is itself coming to look less than complete now that we know so much more, perhaps especially since the publication of Gordon Williams's *A Dictionary of Sexual Language  and Imagery in Shakespearean and Stuart Literature* (expensive and not easy to use, but a real mine of information). <br />Despite these reservations I would still recommend the Onions-Eagleson glossary as a worthwhile component on &quot;the Shakespeare shelf&quot;. It should be added - but this is not a fault of the volume - that in many cases a modern reader is simply not AWARE that a word in Shakespeare does not mean what it means today, and therefore will not look it up in any glossary or dictionary. This makes detailed well-annotated volumes such as are published with the New Cambridge, Oxford, and Arden series (or the one-volume Bevington Shakespeare) essential for anyone wishing to understand what he or she is reading: in such editions, the necessary glosses are volunteered by editors who ARE aware of the fact that many words have changed in meaning since Shakespeare's time . - Joost Daalder, Professor of English, Flinders University, South Australia	2001-04-07
US	50644586	R3AFP96BO50BD7	052142240X	374423138	The Shakespearean Stage, 1574-1642	Books	5	13	14	N	N	The best survey of its kind	It is very easy, and very pleasant, to write in praise of this book, for it is hard to envisage that the task accomplished by Gurr - an absolute expert in the area under discussion - could have been carried out yet better. For several years now, this guide has very justifiably been accepted as the best of its kind, and it is an essential possession for all of us who want, within one handy volume, a comprehensive account of what the theatres of Shakespeare's time were like, and what is likely to have happened within them. The author's detailed, well-informed and specific work is based not only on his own formidable research into the matters at issue, but also on close acquaintance with what others have done. Everything is presented with impeccable, sensible and perceptive judgement. The book can certainly be read through with benefit and enjoyment, but repays frequent visiting whenever one wants to consult a particular chapter or to find out more about a specific issue or fact (there is a very good index to help one in this). All in all, therefore, this book is not only very informative to read, but surpasses a great many books on Shakespeare and his time by being also an excellent reference tool for frequent use. Unhesitatingly recommended. - Joost Daalder, Professor of English, Flinders University, South Australia	2001-04-07
US	50644586	R364D1QLZKET10	0321012542	420218883	The Complete Works of Shakespeare (4th Edition)	Books	5	291	305	N	N	The best and most helpful single-volume edition	Students and various e-mail correspondents often ask me which single-volume Shakespeare edition I would recommend, and I never hesitate in naming this one, as I think it has a long lead over its rivals. I have myself used the 1992 printing with amazing frequency both in research and in teaching, and always with advantage.<br />Why is this the best edition for a reader who wants as much as possible within the confines of a single book? First, it should be pointed out that unannotated editions such as the Oxford Complete Works are all in all of comparatively little use as even expert Renaissance scholars - leave alone inexpert readers -  cannot read Shakespeare's language unaided; there are simply far too many words, features of grammar, etc., which a modern reader is certain to interpret inaccurately or not to understand at all. So it is essential to have intelligent and well-informed annotation that will help one to understand the text. Bevington's is extraordinarily good: knowledgeable, precise, and helpfully clear.<br />Second, an editor needs to be able to produce a responsible modernised text. Shakespeare cannot be understood by many unless he is read in modern spelling, and the punctuation of his period, too, often leads most modern readers astray. Bevington's modernisation of the text is exemplary. Furthermore, his handling of the many thorny textual problems is also outstanding for the knowledge and the judgement that he brings to bear. For example, the Oxford people unwisely and on poor grounds print two separate versions of *King Lear*, and Bevington has been exceptional in rejecting that approach and producing a persuasively and intelligibly \\"conflated\\" text (much better, by the way, than the conflated version in the Arden text edited in 1997 by R.A. Foakes).<br />Most readers of the plays who are not already quite familar with them will want good, perceptive and comprehensive introductions to them, and in this area, too, Bevington excels, demonstrating an awareness of modern approaches and interests without falling victim to trendiness. He offers introductions which are never dull but, however exciting and illuminating, always sensible.<br />The general introductory and accompanying material made available elsewhere in the book is equally useful, revealing, and accurate; and the book is well produced. It is amazingly cheap for the remarkable value it offers.<br />This, then, is not only the best single-volume Shakespeare available, but is by any standard as good an edition as anyone could possibly expect. I add that in my personal view Bevington is probably the only scholar at present alive who could have produced so excellent a single-volume edition. Unreservedly recommended. NOTE: this is a specific review of the FOURTH edition, which to my mind is by far the best, and the only one which I unhesitatingly recommend.f modern approaches and interests without falling victim to trendiness. He offers introductions which are never dull but, however exciting and illuminating, always sensible.  The general introductory and accompanying material made available elsewhere in the book is equally useful, revealing, and accurate; and the book is well produced. It is amazingly cheap for the remarkable value it offers.  This, then, is not only the best single-volume Shakespeare available, but is by any standard as good an edition as anyone could possibly expect. I add that in my personal view Bevington is probably the only scholar at present alive who could have produced so excellent a single-volume edition. Unreservedly recommended. NOTE: this is a specific review of the FOURTH edition, which to my mind is by far the best, and the only one which I unhesitatingly recommend.	2001-04-02
US	50644586	R3R55XUN194KPG	0226655644	53418440	Such Is My Love: A Study of Shakespeare's Sonnets	Books	5	22	22	N	N	A stunning work of criticism	Given the importance of this book, I find myself puzzled by thefact that I am the first to review it..., but am delighted tohave the opportunity. This book was a real milestone when itappeared. In a very factual, unbiassed but totally proficient andpersuasive way it demonstrated in great detail that the persona of thepoems is presented, through them..... Sonnet 20 is of course a crucial targetfor Pequigney, and he reads it superbly, but he is hardly less good ona great many other of Shakespeare's wonderful poems, and is by nomeans narrow or obsessive about his point of view: on the contrary, hehas an excellent notion of how his argument fits into a wider schemeof things. Those who read the poems in Katherine Jones's disappointingArden 3 edition will realise, if they examine Pequigney's work, thatthat editor's claims about the supposed novelty of her views on thebisexuality presented within the poems is greatly exaggerated, andthat Pequigney makes many of the important points both earlier andbetter. Anyone seriously interested in the Sonnets will want to readthis book, which I would rank as one of the most significant and bestworks concerned with those poems: more essential to read than, forexample, John Kerrigan's edition, competent though that is, and insome ways more to the point than Stephen Booth's excellenttome. Someone reading both Pequigney and Helen Vendler would perhapsbenefit more from those two books than any others, though I wouldrecommend using Ingram and Redpath's edition of the Sonnets alongsidethese critical works....	2001-03-19
US	50644586	R1001V3I1OM88X	1573225142	106716475	The Western Canon: The Books and School of the Ages	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Eminently worthwhile	Bloom's book remains, even some seven years after its original publication, as fresh as a daisy, and eminently worthwhile. His diagnosis about the decline in status of the &quot;canon&quot; (an annoying religious term, by the way) is correct to the extent that e.g. universities, which should make it their business to introduce students of literature to the best texts, have often largely abandoned this role. This matters not only in that fewer students now read good texts, but also in that they no longer know which texts are worth reading - which is not their fault, but a serious handicap to them and anyone they might proceed to teach. In one of my Shakespeare classes I discovered the other day that about 80% of those present had not even heard of Milton (leave alone read anything by him). <br />There IS a group of texts that have survived fashions and have remained worth reading, and the ones that Bloom lists are certainly among them. Even that attempt, alone, is and will continue to be very valuable. Obviously it is harder to pick tomorrow's classics among today's texts, but Bloom rightly realises that the effort has to be made: some texts are better than others, and we cannot read everything. <br />I do not altogether share Bloom's pessimism about the canon's demise. Of course, if he really did feel that the canon won't be saved, his book would not have been worth writing. My own experience as a teacher of literature concentrating on major classics is that they do attract large numbers of students, who are keen to read books they will find nourishing, and who want to be guided both towards them and in reading them. There is a genuine appetite for good authors, and those educators, university administrators or politicians who say otherwise do not, in my view, really know what they are talking about.    <br />As far as his discussion of individual texts is concerned, I find Bloom always interesting, perceptive, and searching, even though I not infrequently disagreewith him on points of interpretation, and occasionally on questions of value, though I do not think it is a matter of mere personal caprice to place Shakespeare and Dickens among the Western world's most important authors. His choices are usually very defensible in the light of critical opinion as it has developed among countless readers over many years.<br />While the book is called *The Western Canon*, and certainly moves beyond authors writing in English, it should be realised that its emphasis is nevertheless not free from an Anglo-Saxon bias. It is good to see e.g. Tolstoy given substantial attention, but he is the only Russian author given such space, while there are as many as five for England. Even so, what Bloom DOES give us is usually very much worth having, and I have recommended his book to countless students as well as, of course, my own children. - Joost Daalder, Professor of English, Flinders University, South Australia	2001-03-19
US	50644586	R1B3X3955CUK3N	0801428904	964817739	Misrepresentations: Shakespeare and the Materialists	Books	5	13	13	N	N	One of the previous decade's best books on Shakespeare	I am a little surprised to find myself the first reviewer of this distinguished book. The book is important for two reasons. Above all, Bradshaw is himself an excellent - perceptive, subtle, balanced and sound - critic of Shakespeare. He persuades one that what he sees in Shakespeare is actually &quot;there&quot;, and essential to see. Given this ability, he is also in an authoritiatve intellectual position to demolish a good deal of the artificial, contrived nonsense written during the eighties and early nineties, particularly by the &quot;new historicists (so called) and the &quot;cultural materialists&quot;: he demonstrates conclusively that for the most part the readings of Shakespeare offered by these critics (inasmuch as they actually discuss Shakespeare rather than offering us onesided views about his period) are distorted and inaccurate when really held up against Shakspeare's plays. Thus Bradshaw's title, *Misrepresentations*, is entirely apposite, and present and future readers of Shakespeare will owe him much for his plain speaking and sharp intelligence, which direct us to the real qualities - not least the artistic ones - of SHAKESPEARE rather than the preoccupations of those who tend to treat him as a political football. Joost Daalder, Professor of English, Flinders University (see More about me)	2001-03-04
US	50644586	R1NHXDLN72ZU0I	0300061056	657886535	Appropriating Shakespeare: Contemporary Critical Quarrels	Books	5	19	20	N	N	A classic of its kind	Every once in a while in history, criticism of Shakespeare - which has so often attracted some of the best minds - sinks to an almost inexplicably low level of nonsense, grossness, distortion, inaccuracy, etc. Such a period has occurred in the recent past, and has been firmly diagnosed for what it is in a number of books that have appeared in the nineties rather than the eighties. While there were always some critics to warn us against what was happening (Richard Levin was perhaps the most conspicuous example), Vickers's book was nevertheless a milestone when it appeared in 1993. Not only did it mercilessly and convincingly expose much of the unbelievable stuff that passed for work on Shakespeare, but it diagnosed with great clarity the chief flaw of such material: its refusal actually to try and see Shakespeare for what he is doing and its determination instead to put forward the critic's own favourite theoretical (often political) beliefs, thereby &quot;appropriating&quot; Shakespeare for the commentator's own purposes. Thus, in reading such writings, we learn a good deal about the commentator's personal assumptions and beliefs, but little about Shakespeare. This unhealthy tendency - frequently defended by claims that &quot;one cannot be objective anyway&quot;, should be &quot;politically engaged&quot;, etc. - has of course not yet disappeared, and there is still a good deal of writing in the old, bad eighties mode coming out, but at least it is no longer unchallenged, and Vickers and others have certainly provided a strong antidote. The book is unusually comprehensive in its knowledge of writings on Shakespeare, and derives a good deal of its authority from that fact. In other words, it is for one thing a very full and useful reference book. Some of the reactions to *Appropriating Shakespeare* show that Vickers has made a number of the &quot;appropriating&quot; critics profoundly uncomfortable, and that is how it should be.	2001-03-04
US	50644586	R3FQOBX2SYRSAM	006099486X	418849151	The Professor and the Madman: A Tale of Murder, Insanity, and the Making of The Oxford English Dictionary	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Now read *Caught in the Web of Words*!	The English title, &quot;The Surgeon of Crowthorne&quot;, is more accurate than the American one, though that's not Winchester's fault. Ironically, and absurdly, the English academic establishment treated James Murray, the genius of the *Oxford English Dictionary* who is a minor character in this book, quite shamefully, and the word &quot;Professor&quot; in the American title is misleading. I knew nothing about the insane but knowledgeable Dr W.C. Minor and his contributions to the *Oxford English Dictionary*, and thus  found this book interesting in what it had to say on him, though I fear he fascinated me more, in a somewhat voyeuristic way, because he was mad than because of his intellectual labour. Ultimately Dr James Murray is a more important subject for consideration; and Murray's granddaughter, Elizabeth Murray, has written a more profound and satisfying account of him, in her *Caught in the Web of Words*, than anything to be found in Winchester's neverthless enjoyable book. I recommend both books, but especially *Caught in the Web of Words*. - Joost Daalder, Professor of English, Flinders University (Adelaide, South Australia; see &quot;More about me&quot;).	2001-02-28
US	50644586	R23CPZQQZ06BQ3	0300063105	735672669	Caught in the Web of Words: James A. H. Murray and the Oxford English Dictionary	Books	5	12	12	N	N	&quot;J. Murray more major than W.C. Minor&quot;	Elizabeth Murray, the granddaughter of James Murray, who was the chief editor of the huge Oxford English Dictionary on which every serious scholar of English continues to depend, has written an excellent biography of the greatest English lexicographer, and done more: she has also given an insight into his personality, and, yet more importantly, into the whole scholarly world of philology, lexicography etc. in Victorian England, and the difficulties which beset the creators of the dictionary. I recommend the biography most highly, and feel that all fans of *The Surgeon of Crowthorne* (chiefly on Dr W.C. Minor) should read this - preferably BEFORE that book (so as to get a sense of context), but otherwise after. - Joost Daalder, Professor of  English, Flinders University (see &quot;More about me')	2001-02-28
US	50644586	R23YQ9TSAP9KLX	0374226369	696397728	Shakespeare's Language	Books	5	54	58	N	N	A book needed especially now	Kermode's book demonstrates an approach deeply unfashionable among many of today's academics, though it is part of a backlash against work which made a strong impact in the eighties and early nineties. As a result readers are likely to diverge widely in their reactions to it. Kermode provides an antidote to work on Shakespeare which shows little interest in the actual meaning of his text, leave alone in the artistry of his language. Yet, of all Shakespeare's outstanding qualities, it is surely especially his use of language - employed in a strikingly arresting, rich, subtle, suggestive yet revealing way - which sets him apart from other authors.<br />&quot;Shakespeare's Language&quot;, as a title, may lead some to expect discussions of his syntax, semantics, prosody, etc., and there is certainly an urgent need for more work on such matters. But Kermode is - properly, I feel - concerned to explain what is ARTISTIC in Shakespeare's language: what, notably, makes it individualistic, well-crafted and imaginative rather than just representatively Elizabethan. Kermode's approach is the more essential at a time when there is a marked, and completely inaccurate, tendency to treat Shakespeare as though he was not, after all, anything special - but rather &quot;just a product of his times&quot;. This kind of &quot;egalitarianism&quot; will not ultimately succeed in dwarfing this extraordinary author.<br />This, then, is one of several recent books (written by e.g. Brian Vickers, Graham Bradshaw, Harold Bloom) which share an urgent concern with Shakespeare's individual quality and see the need to protect that against those who for the most part treat him as having produced nothing other than &quot;documents&quot; (as when critics refer to &quot;the Shakespearean text&quot; in references to his plays). By contrast, Kermode to an extent succeeds in giving one an idea of how one's mind gets enriched and expanded by contact with what he rightly sees as the ditinctive creativity ofShakespeare's language. - Joost Daalder, Professor of English, Flinders University (see &quot;More about me&quot;)	2001-02-28
US	50644586	R14DK6P3MX9IE6	052158311X	561240404	Images of Rape: The 'Heroic' Tradition and its Alternatives	Books	5	11	11	N	N	An excellent examination of historical depictions of rape.	Wolfthal examines depictions of rape during the medieval and Renaissance periods, and reveals tellingly and thoughtfully how complex and varied the attitudes towards rape were from around 1100-1700. In contrast to the more simplistic views with which we are often presented, her essay points out that rape was by no means always glorified, but frequently viewed with the disapproval which it deserves; and she makes her case compellingly and fascinatingly, using a wide range of illustrations from several countries and all sorts of spheres. This is a learned book, but, though thought-provoking and demanding, never heavy or ponderous. It is sure to become a classic on its subject, and should be read by all who are interested in rape and attitudes to it. I have found it one of the best scholarly books I have read during an academic career that spans more than four decades.	2000-12-31
