US	50648510	R1WSSXFAMT63LC	0743456173	147794316	Just the Way You Are (Lost Texas Hearts, Book 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Hope gets some hope...	Miss Hope Prescott has not lived the best of lives.  Her parents died when she was only 16, her siblings ripped away from her and sent to different foster homes, and the peacful life as a minister's daughter stolen from her.  Now she lives in Boston going to school, working for an answering service and looking for her brother and sisters.  She doesn't have time for any men in her life no matter how bad her boss what her too...Until...<br />Mr. Zachariah Givens is a very weathy CEO of his own corporation.  He's ruthless, heartless, care for nobody (expect maybe his family) who knows not to trust anybody.  But then his secretary leaves for vacation and hires him an answering service. And then he hears her, Hope, and is instantly drawn in ways not even he fully understands.  Zach also knows that if she were to know that he was who he was, she would never give him a chance because she stated quite clear that she doesn't care for the weathy.  So instead of telling her who he is, he lets her believe that she's his butler.  Then things start happening and Zach finds he wants to know everything there is to know about Miss Hope Prescott and protect her from harm.  She's very closed lip about her past and family.  Can he get her to tell all?  She's still such an innocent to everything and still has morals.  What will she do when she finds out who he really is and that he lied to her????  Well reader, I'm afraid you'll have to read the book to find out yourself!<br />Over all this was an EXCELLENT book.  I LOVED IT!  The characters are amazing, the plot is great.  I couldn't put the book down! Christina Dodd has outdone herself again!  I wasn't sure that would be possible after the great books that she's writen before but she's done it!!!  I give this book 5 stars and it deserved every one of them!  I do hope Ms. Dodd writes books for the other siblings also for I'm sure their tale will be just as good!!	2003-06-20
US	50648510	R2WNSTDSQPYVMO	074343787X	654401223	The Devil You Know (Rutledge Family, Book 3)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	or the devil you don't know...	When Miss Frederica (Freddie) d'Avillez is thrown over by her long time love, she is convinced that she'll never be able to marry.  So she then decides that if she's going to spend the rest of her life on the shelf she should at least have just one night of complete passion.  <br />Enter in Mr. Bentley \\"Hell-Bent\\" Rutledge, who is a complete rogue, scoundral, rake, and heart-breaker.  He's known Freddie for years and lately can't help but notice how she's grown into such a beautiful woman. So of course when she presents such an opportunity to him how could he possibly resist?<br />But then as a result of their one night, something is made, and Bendley is honor bound to marry Freddie.  Which might not be so bad after all.  They get along very well, have a passion for each other that not even he has experienced before, and the baby is very exciting.  However, Bentley has quite a few secrets from his past that he's not willing to tell Freddie and they could tear their marriage apart.  So will Freddie be able to help Bentley with his problems and fix the family rift????<br />Over all this was a pretty good book.  The characters were well thought out and the reader could feel what they were feeling.  The plot was Excellent!  Not as much adventure as I would have thought but still VERY good.  I highly recommend this book to everybody.  It's well worth the read!	2003-06-18
US	50648510	R3W52ZB8RMYZAS	0451208250	386426003	The Indifferent Earl (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Clever old ladies.....	Miss Abigail Todd, owner and headmistress of her own school in Boston, goes to England (the enemy in her eyes)to recieve an inheritance from her distant relative.  What she finds when she gets there is far more than a simple cottage that she expected.  She finds a huge house, a treasure hunt of sorts left by her paternal grandmother, and an incredibly hansome next door neighboor known as Jared Verney, Earl of Langley.  It turns out that in order to have the cottage, Abby must fulfill a number of commissions left to her by her grandmother who was the spitting image of Abby herself and the mistress of the old (2 generations old) earl.  OH and she must take Jared (the present Earl) with her on everyone of these commissions.<br />Jared wants the cottage back from this American.  But Abby isn't at all what he expected her to be.  Old and ugly this lady is not.  With her grandmothers looks she turns many heads, including Jareds.  So what is a man to do when a girl like this is dropped into his lap?  Follow her on her commissions and help her in any way possible, all while trying to woo her subtly at the same time...But can he win her heart over to English soil when she still has such a life over in America?  We all know love works in mysterious ways...<br />Ok first off I juat want to say that I would actually rate this like 3 1/2 to 3 3/4 stars.  It was pretty good but there were many times when I just got bored with it and it seemed to slow down too much.<br />The commissions Abby and Jared are given are well thought out and funny at times, but I thought they should've fallen in love a little more quickly than they did.  The secondary characters are great!  Myles, Jared's brother, is a great character and the reader sees him grow a lot during the novel.  And Abby's companion Hannah adds a lot of life to the book too.<br />Overall this wasn't a bad read.  It just had a couple slow points to it.  I would still recommend it to many of you. And this will NOT be the last ofBlair Bancroft that I read...	2003-05-27
US	50648510	R382TYG0WKPY1M	0451208366	579062685	The Diamond Key (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	19	20	N	N	It begins with a fire....	When Lady Victoria Keyes is trapped in a burning building she vows that if she is saved, she'll marry right away and do her duty.  She'll even marry the man who saves her.  Well as you can probably see, she is saved.  And the man that saves her is none other than Wynn, Viscount Ingall who has been exiled from society after rumors of him killing someone during a duel.<br />When Torrie (Lady Victoria)tries to complete her vow and marry this handsome hunk, who has obviously been wrongly accused, he begins to run in the opposite direction because getting caught in the parson's mousetrap is the last thing he wants to do.  But the more and more he sees Torrie, the more and more he wants to be with her.  And she is the same with him, vow or no vow.  <br />What follows is a great story filled with action and romance.  This story was overall a good story.  The minor characters and problems that Wynn is face with keep the story moving smoothly for the most part.  There are a couple spots that seemed to drag on but not that many.  The characters were well thought out and the reader is easily able to feel what they're feeling!<br />So yes, I do recommend this book to everyone!	2003-05-13
US	50648510	R2UK9DWI7SGEUD	045120770X	986978678	False Steps (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	2	5	7	N	N	not quite there...	Ok I'm going to try to make this review as short and sweet as I can.  This book is missing A LOT of things.  The plot was INCREDIBLY weak.  It had potential but didn't come close to making it.  The main characters are able to fall in love with each other after only meeting 2 MAYBE 3 times.  And each other those times was about 15 minutes max.  The story was incredibly hard to believe.  I don't know about you but friendship can only be pushed so far.  And the secondary character Lavinia pushes it way to far mistreating our &quot;heroine&quot; of the story.  But Freddie (heroine) keeps coming back for more.  And in the end when it is proved that Freddie was right all along there's not even a big apology scene.  So overall this really isn't that great of a book.  I don't recommend it at all unless you are Really desparate for something to read.  But do read some of this authors other books.  She isn't normally this disappointing.  This wasn't my first of her and won't be my last either.	2003-03-18
US	50648510	R1VF8W2KUG049G	0312977557	922797759	The Troublemaker	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Trouble indeed!	Trouble seems to follow Miss Sarah Palmer whereever she goes.  But when she attempts to run off and elope with a fortune hunter, thinking he's in love with her, her family finally sends her to Scottland to visit her sister as punishment.  But what Sarah finds when she gets there isn't her sister, fore her sister and her family have traveled to Glasgow for a month!  But that's ok because this is a chance for Sarah to prove to her family that she can be responsible for herself.  She can stay there alone and not get into trouble.  But when American Marshall Macdougal crosses her path, trouble seems to find her again.<br />Mr. Macdougal is looking for revenge.  His mother, who just passed away, has been wronged his entire life.  He learned while cleaning out his mothers old items that his father hadn't passed away in a ship coming to America like his mother had told him, instead he was alive and kicking here in Scottland.  Now he's come back to claim his birthright.  However when he finds out that the old man died years ago, he decides to take it out on the old man's family.  But then it turns out that the beautiful Sarah Palmer his somewhat part of that family and it willing to do anything to stop him from hurting her beloved family.<br />What follows is a clash of wills and a battle to find out who's more stubborn.<br />I actually wanted to rate this book 3 1/2 stars.  It wasn't THAT bad but it wasn't that great either.  I just couldn't really get into the characters that much and the plot was easy to figure out what would happen.  If you're looking to a very light read then this is your book.  Not too much action though.  If you're like me and like the action packed  books, I wouldn't recommend this one.  Like I stated before, it's NOT a horrible book, it's just not that great.	2003-03-12
US	50648510	R2KXYZD2YGTNZA	0449006379	734231472	Lord of Fire	Books	5	2	2	N	N	What a spy!!!!	When Miss Alice Montague arrives at Revel Court to retreive her wild sister, Caro in order to bring her home to help take care of Caro's 3 year old son who has the chicken pox, she never imagined that she would walk into a HUGE orgy, be searched by it's host, Lucien Knight (quite improperly I might add), kissed sensless, and practicly kidnapped for an entire week!  But she also never imagined that she would see the softer side of Lucien Knight and see how she's the only one who can save him from going over to the dark side.<BR>What Alice also doesn't realize is that Lucien is a secret agent who is only holding those \\"parties\\" to gather information for the government.  He sees Alice for what she is soon after he meets her and knows that she's the only one who can save his heart from dying and becoming as evil as the people he's trying to protect England from.  He decides that she needs to stay with him for one week, property be damned. So he tricks Alice into staying and her sister must leave without her.  Soon though both Lucien and Alice start seeing each other in a new light.  They know that this is meant to be.  However Lucien has many dark secrets that he refues to tell Alice, and she refuses to be his wife until he shares them.<BR>But danger is closing in on them.  Lucien's arch enemy is in England and is planning destroying the city and Lucien once and for all.  Lucien must stop him and end this game once and for all.  But can he do it and keep Alice at the same time???<br />This story is quiet honestly one of the BEST stories I've ever read!!  It is a page turner until the very end.  You feel yourself falling in love along with the characters, and keep wondering how Lucien is going to be able to stop his horrible rival Bardou.  Mrs. Foley has done an absolute wonderful job with this book!  It is a very clean book too.  She handles the \\"party\\" scene with much tact and it very clean about it.  She is able to get her point across without becoming gross and turning it into an erotic novel.  I suggest that EVERYONE read this book!  Like I said it's absolutley WONDERFUL!!!	2003-03-07
US	50648510	R2SLYOHK8B4CA5	0804119732	191417169	Lord of Ice	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Action, action, and more action!!!!	Miss Miranda Fitzhubert has just been named ward of the incredibly honorable, brave, war hero Damien Knight, the ear of Winterley.  From the very first moment the two see each other sparks fly.  But not is all as it seems.  both of these two people have dark secrets that must be brought out by the other and conquered.  Damien is forever being haunted by his past from the war.  He is afraid that if he stays around people he might hurt them during one of his episodes.  But the sweet Miranda's touch seems to be able to keep his demons at bay.  But how can he keep her close when he might hurt her??  And then there's that small little matter of someone is trying to kill her, that they must solve...<br />This book is wonderful!  It is filled with nonstop action.  There is no way any reader can get bored with this book!!  The characters are perfect for each other, and you really find yourself feeling what the characters are feeling.  So yes, I give this book 5 stars!  It's funny and filled with action!!!	2003-03-02
US	50648510	R37RW99PCPUL6U	0804119740	719225280	Lady of Desire	Books	5	2	5	N	N	It's the sweet little sister's turn now...	All Lady Jacinda Knight wants is to be free.  To do what she wants, when she wants, how she wants. Is that too much to ask? Well if you live in London during the Regency era and are the daughter of a Duke, yes it is!  Throw in the fact that her mother was a woman of loose virtue and that just sends society into a craze of whether or not she'll follow in her mother's footsteps.  So finally Jacinda decides to run away to France.  However when Mr. Billy Blade, the leader of the largest underworld gang, finds her and realizes that she's the sister of one of his noble friends, he immediatly takes her back home.  Then Billy is caught and forced to come out into the society he ran away from 13 years ago, in order to save his friends from hanging at Newgate.  Now that he's considered an equal to Jacinda the game begins.  He must convince her that she will still be free even married to him, and that they should get married.  However someone wants Billy dead.  Someone back in London's underworld that he's dealt with before.  Will Billy be able to defeat his enemy finally and marry the woman who believes in him?  It's a romance, you figure it out...<br />This story was absolutly WONDERFUL!!!  I highly recommend it to everyone.  The characters are very well thought out, the plot is amazing, the humor is halarious, everything that makes a great book great is there!  The bad guys are horrible and when Billy finally realizes he's not the horrible person his father let him believe he was, and come to terms with his father, it's a true tear-jerker!!!  <br />I give this story 5 stars and it deserves every one of them!!!!	2003-02-27
US	50648510	RYR9O2044WDUB	0380818035	134653292	A Notorious Love (Swanlea Spinsters, Book 2)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Etiquette books only cover so much!!	Miss Helena Laverick is one of the most prim and proper misses you could probably ever find.  She has memorized every page of &quot;Miss Nunley's Guide to Etiquette for young ladies&quot; and has no trust for any man.  She knows that no man is to be trusted and that no man will want her because of her lame leg (that was caused by the illness polio).  After all her one and only betrothed broke it off once it was discovered about her leg.  But now her youngest sister, Juliet, has been kidnapped and she must find her before it's too late!  As much as she hates to admit it, there is only one person who can help her...<br />Daniel Brennan is the son of a notorious highway man and was raised by smugglers.  Last summer he had to decieve Helena family (A Dangerous Love), and he knows that she still hasn't forgiven him for that.  He has sworn never to marry a &quot;stiff-rumped&quot; woman like that!  But the fact that she came to him for help to find her sister still makes him feel a little bit good.  And he knows that Juliet is a sweet girl and does feel protective over her.  After all his best friend married her sister.  But now as he and Helena are forced to act as a married couple in order to find Juliet, Daniel starts to see Helena in a whole new light.  He sees the woman that she really is but she  insists on hiding from others.  And Helena starts seeing Daniel too.  She sees that he has lived a very hard life and has come out on top even after everything that has happened to him.<br />This story is a wonderful story!  It is full of excitment and love.  My favorite thing about the book is how the reader can see Helena blooming into her real self that she has kept hidden from everyone.  You can also really feel the love grow between the two.  The kidnapping is there throughout the entire book and was very well thought out.  It is also in Mrs. Jeffries next book.  Mrs. Jeffries has done a beautiful job giving just enough information in this book about the kidnapping asnot to spoil the next book which deals with Juliet's story.  I encourage everyone to read this book.  It really was that great!!!	2001-12-28
US	50648510	R2KI9TC4HXAPGO	0380797488	38293536	The Forbidden Lord (Lord Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	what's in a name?	Emily Fairchild, an innocent rector's daughter, is being forced by blackmail, to masquerade as a debutante in London for evil Lord Nesfield, so that they can find out who was trying to elope with Nesfield's daughter Sophie, one of Emily's best friends.  Emily has never told a lie in her life and now she finds herself having to behave like an outragous flirt, by the name of Miss Emma, and tell a web of lies, inorder to find out who did it!  <br />No one in the ton knows that Emma is really Emily a simple rector's daughter except for one man,  Jordan Willis, the Earl of Blackmore.  Because you see Jordan and Emily have met before and even &quot;quite accidently&quot; shared a stolen kiss.  Ever after that first kiss Jordan has never forgotten that sweet innocent girl from Willow Crossing where they had both had mistaken idenity that had ended in the wonderful kiss.  But surly this Miss Emma can't possibly be HIS Emily!  Impossible!  She was too sweet natured and could quote any part of the bible at any moment!  But they look the same, smell the same, and even kiss the same!  Well almost kiss the same, this Emma is MUCH more brazen than Emily.  But....<br />This story was abolutly amazing!  I loved every moment of it.  This is actually the second time that I read it because I forgot to write a review and give credit where credit is due!  The characters are very well thought out, and you can really feel the two main characters fall in love.  Espically Jordan! The moment when he FINALLY admitted to being in love with Emily was one of the best parts of the book!  Even the story line was a good one!  Mrs. Jeffries did a great job with providing additional characters inorder to keep the mystery of Sophie's secret sutior alive and burning!<br />I highly recommend this book to everyone!  Sabrina Jeffries is a wonderful author!  This wasn't my first of her's and most certainly won't be my last!!!!!	2001-12-20
US	50648510	R10CRE86DTJWAG	0451198263	488601043	The Bartered Heart (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	really wasn't impressed that much	Griffin Darrowby is in Desperate need of money but can't let anybody know about it until he is married to the weathy widow, Lady Minerva Stargrove.  Otherwise there is no way she would marry him!  However Lady Min says that she will only marry Griff if he loves her like her last husband did.  But Griff is unable to love,  he was badly abused as a child by his heartless father and vowed against it forever.<br />Enter in Miss Gates Underhill.  Poor Gates has lived a bad life too.  Her mother was a lady who married under her station so when she died, while Gates was still so young, her noble family wouldn't even respond to the letter Gates had sent informing them of her mothers death.  Her father started getting visions after her mother died about the bible and then created his own &quot;Book&quot;; and then started dragging Gates around the countryside preaching to whoever would listen.  Then he remarried to another widow with two evil sons.  <br />When both Griff and Gates there is an attraction there that neither of them understand.  But Gates always finds a way to raise Griff's hackles.<br />When I started this review I really wasn't sure what to give this book.  The characters were well thoughtout and you could feel Griff's pain about his family.  Gates seemed to act more like a school room miss who knows nothing about the outside world, but that makes sense seeing as how when her father remarried he just left her on the farm while he continued his traveling.  The problem I had with this book was that the excitment wasn't even throughout the book. The first half of the book was very boring with very little excitment.  I felt that when Griff was kidnapped by Gates' stepbrothers it wasn't drawn out as well as it could've been.  But the second half was loaded with action and love.  I would've given this more stars if the excitment was more even throughout the book.	2001-12-17
US	50648510	R3MKISDX6UWKEJ	0451195779	562416846	The Temporary Duke (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	what's in a name?	Lady Rosemary, sister to the Duke of Alston, is in a horrible situation!  Her brother has gone on a hiking trip to the alps and can not be found!  His wedding is only 6 weeks away and if he doesn't show, not only does the family name get dragged through the mud, but they lose over half of the family's money because of something their grandfather wrote in his will!  So now Rose and her Uncle is on a desperate search for someone to impersonate the duke until he returns!  Luckily there just so happens to be a man who is the exact image of the duke...BUT they have to convince him to play the part and teach him HOW to play the part.  Afterall how much can a country latin teacher know about this kind of society stuff?? And they are desperate because there is NO WAY in hades the Lady Rose is going to give up what is rightfully her's and live a lesser life like a Viscount!<BR>When Adrin Sramford is proposed this idea he thinks it'll be a great lark to play upon society!  Who of coarse he absolutly CAN NOT stand!  He dispises those snobby, rich, better-than-everybody, people.  All he cares about is digging for pre-roman artifacts, and teaching a little latin here and there for some pocket money.<BR>It all starts out as a lark for him too.  He sees that Rose is just the same as every other nobel and worse!  Until she's put to the test, then her true self comes out and he just can't seem to act in a brotherly way towards her when she does that.  But after a while it's no longer a lark, things start to get a bit more than that.  Rose starts to really see the world she lives in for the first time and she's afraid of what else this man will make her see about herself!<br />Overall this was a pretty good book.  The plot was there, the characters were really well thought out, and their love seemed well played out.  The only reason that I won't give it the final star is because I didn't finish with that &quot;sigh&quot; that a reader should.  You know the one that you get at the endof a book where everything has worked out and everybody is happy!  This wasn't my first book by Melinda McRae and it won't be my last!	2001-12-13
US	50648510	R1Z8Z8H0CQYX3X	0380789345	599616151	Brighter Than the Sun	Books	5	6	8	N	N	In 2 weeks time.....	In about two weeks time, Charles Wycombe, Earl of Billington, must find a bride and be married to her.  Not an easy job when one is NOT in London.  Even if he were, he can't stand the young simpering, just out of the schoolroom chits!<br />Miss Eleanor Lyndon needs to find a new home as fast as possible.  Her father, the town vicar, has deceided to remarry.  However the woman he has picked, Mrs. Foxglove a widow, can not stand Ellie.  Actually they both feel the same about each other.  INTRUDER!!!<br />One day Charles literally falls at Ellie's feel, he sees the perfect answer to both of their pressing problems.  They should just get married.  After all, Ellie is the first marriagble girl he has come across and can actually stand being in the same room with her alone for more than ten minutes.  Not to mention that she really isn't asking for that much when they marry.  That is until she informs Charles that they won't consumate the marriage until she's ready to do so.  But surly that won't take very long will it?  No woman has ever been able to resist his charms.  However, he's never wanted any woman like he wants her.  And the worst part is, is that he can't figure out why or how he can want someone the way he wants her.<br />Mrs. Quinn has done a great job with this book!  It is loaded with excitment from cover to cover.  Whether it's abduction you like or suprise kitchen fires, you'll find it all in this book!  I'm not quite sure I have ever read  a book with more excitment in it than this one has!  And what was really great was that the events were spread out throughout the entire book.  Which then in turn made the book a total page turner!  Also what was nice, was that even though this book was in connection to EVERYTHING AND THE MOON, you don't have to read that book to understand this one.  Mrs. Quinn does refer to the other book but also explains it to an extent not to bore the reader who already read the other one.  I give this book 5 stars because it really was THAT good!  And I will recommend this series to many people!!!	2001-09-22
US	50648510	R3S5MBCNUGKXM6	0821766082	772910822	That Scandalous Heiress (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	scandle vs scandle	When orphan Miss. Marianne McCord is notified that she is the new owner of Bibb Grange, she can't wait to move in and get away from her mean great aunt.  Even if that means that she has to go alone and unchaporoned she doesn't care because she'll have a home to call her own! However when the only 3 servents quit and leave, and the entire villiage snubs her because there is no other person with her, male or female to act as guaridan or charorone, she almost starts to doubt herself.  But she's dealt with snubs before; after all most of her life people thought of her as a byblow.  But she doesn't care because now she has her own home and can take care of herself.  Except when it comes to her hansome neighbor Viscount Adam Jenson.<br />Adam has come to his country estate to allow a horrible scandle to blow over.  When he first arrives he doesn't want to talk to anybody, however that changes when he meets Miss McCord.  This is one woman he just can't seem to get enough of, but yet drives him crazy too!  For some reason she just keeps popping up in bad places and almost gets herself killed by his horse!!!<br />This book had the potential to be a great book.  Unfortuntly, the author started too many little plots to help the main plot but never finished them all.  For instance, in the beginning of the book the reader is shown the BIG scandle that sent Adam to his estate.  The scandle is occasionally brought up thoughout the book showing that it hasn't blown over yet, but in the end is never finished and the truth never relvealed to the reader.  Also as a reader I was expecting a few confrontations and only received one, which was the one between Adam and Marianne's cousin, Titus Brougham.  Another thing was the way that when Marianne admitted to herself that she loved Adam (which didn't take long) she just seem to start flinging herself towards Adam.  It just didn't seem right for the regency period that a girl who wasn't a fortune hunter to try to get a kiss from a man like she did.<br />Sorry but I give this book only 3 stars.  Could've received many more but too many things weren't finished.  Better luck next time.	2001-09-22
US	50648510	R95JKSV6QG2WI	0451201388	669470815	The Selfless Sister (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Selfless Indeed	Miss Lucinda Linley has once again been faced with the question of is she going to finally marry now, and make her younger sister (Henrietta) who is in love wait a few more years until her parents can afford another dowry, or is Lucinda going to step aside and allow her sister to use the dowry and marry the man she loves, as Lucinda has so done from her other 5 sisters? Being the age of 26 Lucinda realizes that her chances of finding a good match are comeing close to nothing but she doesn't care because she refuses to wed a man she doesn't love. However when a letter comes from a distant aunt, she sees it as a perfect answer to her problem for her aunt has offered her father (who doesn't want to send either of his daughters to his sister-in-laws) to provide Lucinda with a &quot;more-than-adequate dowry&quot; as long as she stays and entire year. What could be so bad about that? She loves to read and draw birds, and according to her father there are thick woods beside the mansion surely to hold more than enough birds to keep her busy. Of course this statement comes right before a warning of &quot;Be careful. You have never met the likes of Edgerton Linley.&quot; her cousin.<br />Douglas Wyndham, Earl of Belington, is very much a man that keeps to himself. After &quot;The Tragedy&quot; 25 years ago, in which his family member was accused of horrible things and then the family was cut in every home, he has grown with bitterness towards the Linleys but mostly towards Edgerton Linley.<br />Even though it is forbidden to be close to a Belington, much less secretly meet with one in the woods, Lucinda can not seem to help herself. She is attracted to this oh-so-hansome man is ways she can't understand, whereas Douglas can't understand why he can't stop himself from seeing the only woman he could never have.<br />Overall this was a great story, very well thought out. The characters were great, the excitment was there, everything was there. Except even though our author showed all strings being tied for our happy couple, she didn't do so with our secondary characters as well. Now don't get me wrong, she doesn't leave us wondering what happened to them, I just thought she was going to show the reunited loves being reunited. Oh well. Like I said it was a great story with all of the characters completly thought out! I greatly recommend this book!	2001-09-18
US	50648510	R29ONOVZPEJIU5	0380789337	232060645	Everything and the Moon (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Seven years is a long time!	Seven years ago Victoria Lyndon, daughter of a vicar, and Robert Kemble, future Earl of Macclesfield, fell madly and deeply in love.  To the point that they planned to run away and elope, no matter what their fathers say or think!  However when Victoria's father catches her sneeking out of the house, he makes sure she isn't going anywhere; and Robert assumes that Victoria was nothing but a fortune hunter who just wanted his title and money!  Whereas Victoria is positive that Robert was just using her as a summer fling to keep himself from getting bored.<br />Seven years later, Robert is the hansome, extremly wealthy , and powerful nobleman; and Victoria  is now a governess to a spoiled rotten 5 year old.  Both Robert and Victoria are furious with the other because they are still under the impression that  one was using the other and never even loved them.  What either of them can't figure out is why they just can't seem to NOT want to be with the other, and why their hearts always start to pound when the other comes into sight, after they meet again after 7 years!!<br />Julia Quinn is by far one of my favorite authors now.  In every book that I've read of her's, she has done a perfect job with everything that makes a book great!  Just after the first chapter I felt all giddy inside just like the characters!  The characters were completely thought out and you could see how each of them were changing and growing as a person, and you could see the love grow again in each of them.  I loved this book.  I found myself actually laughing out loud throughout most of the book.  The only thing it didn't make me do wascry.  I've noticed  in some of her other books, Mrs. Quinn has the most amazing ability to make he laugh and then 5 chapters later cry.  I'm not saying that because I didn't cry it only deserves 4 stars, but it was just a suprise.  I give this book 5 stars because it earned every single one of them and more!!	2001-09-18
US	50648510	RLZMG9DCQ8IFD	0380818205	825716848	The Marriage Lesson (Effington Family & Friends)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	better than the last one	Marianne Shelton has deceided that she is not going to marry at all. Why would she tie herself a stuffy, boring man who would control all of the finances and never let her have any kind of adventure? There is no way she's going to let that happen when all she wants is to live her life full of adventure.<BR>However when her sisters and her go to London for the season, instead of staying with their brother and his new wife (The Husband List), who are in America, they are stuck with Thomas Effington, future Duke of Roxborough, and rake. Thomas does not like this role that has been given to him of gardian. In fact, he will do just about anything to get all three sisters married and off of his list of things to do so he can find a wife for himself. A nice, biddible, NOT outspoken girl, who won't argue with his every decision; in other words someone not like the woman who haunts his dreams with memories of passionate kisses shared with one of his charges, Marianne.<BR>Victoria Alexander has done a wonderful job with this book. Much better that her last one (Husband List). I could actually feel what the characters were feeling at the time, the excitment that had been absent from the last book had returned full blast in this one, and I was totally into the book almost throughout the entire thing. The humor throughout this book was uneven though. It was far more apparent in the end of the book and even had this reader laughing out loud at time. I would've liked to have seen more done with Marianne's sisters though. Another book perhaps?<BR>Overall 4 stars because it was a good book, but not as good as the first in the series, which I gave 5 stars!	2001-09-12
US	50648510	R226P9QD97AF6G	0380806312	899001105	The Husband List	Books	3	1	1	N	N	not that great	So if you had only 2 months  in order to pick a husband and convince him to marry you in name only, and he would not ever have you in his bed, without telling him why you must marry before the 2 months is over, what would you do? It's quite simple. Make  a list of eligible men, or if you're not sure who to place on a list have your friends do it for you.  And that is exactly what Lady Gillian Marley does so that way she may receive a HUGE inheritence from an uncle that recently passed away.  Well who better to marry than Richard Shelton, Earl of Shelbrooke?  The Earl has a great, old, noble title, but is in need of funds to undo the damage his father did before he died.  Surly  he will say yes once he hears about it all right? NO!  Richard knows that he needs the money but refuses to marry for convenience.  So he proposes to court Gillian for 2 months and see how things go once they know each other better.<br />If you were like me and expecting tons of excitment like the first book throughout the entire book I'm afraid you'll be greatly disappointed. The majority of the book was quite honestly boring.  Most of the exciting action was in the last 4 chapters.  Now I'm not saying that this was a HORRIBLE book because it wasn't.  It just was far from great.  In this book I couldn't get into the characters at all where as in the first book I was there with them by the end of the first chapter.  If it wasn't part of a series that I really wanted to finish then I would've put it down and probably not have picked it back up.<br />Better luck next time!	2001-09-06
US	50648510	RO86F2GYQUL0V	0380806290	934380949	The Wedding Bargain	Books	5	18	19	N	N	A Deal is a Deal. Isn't it?	Pandora Effington has been given the title &quot;Hellion of Grosvenor Square&quot; because her behavior is always skipping on the thin line between properity and scandle. She is a VERY stubborn 24 year old in her 7th season, and laughs at the thought of marriage; esp a marriage without love.<BR>Maximillian Wells, the Earl of Trent, is just as stobborn as Pandora and know what he wants. He has finally decieded to marry. The woman who fits all of his requirements is the ever beautiful Pandora and he wants HER. But instead of accepting his suit like any other girl would do, she refuses and instead makes a bargain with him. If Max passes any one test of her choosing, she will marry him. However is Max fails, Pandora is allowed to pick Max's bride for him.<br />Victoria Alexander has done a wonderful job with this entire book! It was incredibly captivating and it kept my attention the entire way through! I think what impressed me most was how I could see the two characters fall in love with each other. Most authors don't show as much detail and this one did, but I am very happy with the way she did it! So yes I rate this 5 stars because it earned every star!!!!!	2001-08-31
US	50648510	R135UG0L5NA9X7	0821756710	77117834	The Gallant Gambler (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	not too bad	I wasn't sure what to expect when I started reading this book, because it was one of those that I saw sitting on a shelf at the library and thought it looked good. But I am glad I read it. Martha Kirkland does a great job with everything in this book! She made me want to love the main characters and dispise the evil grandfather! Basicly the plot of this book is that Lord Gillmore (evil grandfather) is attempting to make his granddaughter, the shy Lilia wed his heir Lilia's cousin Andrew.  Lilia's sister, and our herione, Judith, is willing to do anything to stop this evil planning! Judith feels that her sister should marry for love not because she's being ordered to do it! So when the Heir and his brother arrive she attempts to do whatever she can in order to stop any wedding of this type to happen which requires the help of Andrew's brother, Zach. Who just so happens to be our hero. Overall this book is a pretty good book that is very easy to get into. The characters are well thoughout and you can feel and see when they fall in love! I give this book 4 stars because I think the end could've been played out to include the evil grandfather but oh well it was a great read without it!	2001-08-27
US	50648510	R2TM8UG6IKXF3N	0451201612	773969417	Miss Lacey's Last Fling (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	What's a girl to do?!	So if you were told that you were going to die in a couple months what would you do back in the 1800's?  Well I don't know about you but I would do exactly what Miss Rosalind Lacey did...Live life to it's fullest!!!   Rosie is the oldest child out of a family of six children, and when her mother dies of mysterious headaches, Rosie's about 14 or 16 years old. Rosie then is given the position of holding up the household because her father is so grief stricken.  Well it ends up that Rosie who used to be outgoing and up for anykind of fun is now a 26 year old country mouse, who was just informed that she has her mothers illness and has only a few months to live.  It is then that she relizes that she hasn't lived life at all. She's only looked after her family and taken care of them.  Soshe begins to make a list of everything that she wants to do and writes her free-spirited Aunt Fanny who lives in London to let Rosie come stay with her in London.  At first Aunt Fanny is hesitant to let her quiet, reserved, country mouse of a neice come stay with her.  However soon after Rosie arrives and announces that she wants to completly change, Fanny is more than willing to do just about anything! Including going to boring old Almack's!!  Max Devenant, professional rake, is bored with life.  He's tasted everything there is to taste and it now all tastes bland.  However when this new, fearless, beautiful Rosalind comes into the scene he finds that the word boring is nowhere in his vocabulary.  He now finds himself jumping into theatre boxes, being chased with Rosalind throughout the theatre, and being drawned to her in the most courious way that he just can't understand. Ms. Hern did a wonderful job developing the feelings between the two main characters!  She showed the fear that Rosie felt of dying perfect and later when the truth comes out about Rosie's mother just makes it even better!  The only problem I had throughout the entire book was when Max is literally throwing himselfat Rosie's feet wanting to marry her and she still refuses him!  It makes you wish you could just shake her!!!  I promise not to give the ending away but I must admit that it made this reader smile.	2001-07-21
US	50648510	R2Y5KO0M5GCT6U	0821767216	793172329	Lady Diana's Daring Deed (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	really wasn't too good	When I started reading this book, I thought there would be a lot more action than there really was.  Miss Diana Ballinger masquerades as her brother, Tever, to attempt to win back the money he lost gambling, to Jack Melville, and an additional 100,000 pounds so Trever can marry his true love.  At first everything is working fine but then Diana loses the last bet and in doing so she must give her hand in marriage to Jack.  Jack has no intention to marry the supposed sister of the gentleman he's gaming with but only wants to teach the young pup a lesson.  Little does he know that it's actually Diana that he's gambling with.  In return for Diana's hand in marriage, Jack will give her the money Trever needed to wed Jenny, his true love.  Throughout the book we see Diana trying to prove to Jack that he really doesn't want to marry her because she now thinks that he really does want to marry her.  But then when the evil Lord Treffington starts to attempt to court Diana because Trever took Jenny away from him, then Diana starts to try to persuade Jack to marry her and finally even tries to kidnap Jack.  I suppose the two main problems that I had with this story, was that I was hoping for an actual scene when Jack discovered that it was actually Diana that had gambled her hand away that night; and also it seemed that there wasn't enough show of Jack falling in love with Diana.  It almost seemed as POOF he loves her.  That didn't make the story flow as well as it should have.  I did like the story somewhat though and this is my first time reading Mona Gedney so I am definitly going to read another of her's.	2001-07-18
US	50648510	R267K0YAL0R07C	0451199294	108513090	The Dangerous Baron Leigh (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	not quite sure	Well truth be told I'm not really sure what to say about this book.  It wasn't quite bad enough to be BAD, but it wasn't quite good enogh to be GREAT either.  The mystery itself is a great mystery.  Jocelyn Robards (main Character)has been invited to her dear cousin's house to help her cousin (Lora) plan a costume ball to honor the new heir but when she arrives there (soaking wet and saved by our hansome hero Lord Peter Leigh whom she refused suit 5 years past) she learns that her cousin's family heirloom has been stolen and must be found within two weeks because Lora plans to wear it the night of the costume ball.  OK so basicly that's the entire plot right there.  The mystery is told perfectly.  It kept my attention throughout the entire book.  It was always once you felt certain that it was one person the author brough up good reasons why it could have been another which then made you start to think of another person...  So that was the good about the book and here's the bad...It drove me absolutly insane that our hero, even though he had been refused 5 years ago because he had no title or fortune which he now has, everytime he speaks to Jocelyn he will call her &quot;My Love&quot;, &quot;Dearest&quot;, and all of the other things that would never had been stood for back then by anybody unless the people were married!  It just seemed silly  to hear this over and over and over!  And the way Peter would just walk right into Jocelyn's sitting room without even knocking seemed just a little unbelievable to me.  These are not the ONLY things that were wrong but I really don't think it fair to point out all of them because like I said before, the story itself was good.  I hope the editor looks a little closer next time!!	2001-06-18
US	50648510	R2VGIO5R8S4Q2R	0451202589	361371206	The Ambitious Baronet (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	10	10	N	N	not the greatest	This book had the potential to be a really great book, but it wasn't. The plot was well thought out about 3 sisters that were left pennieless by their drunk father who gambled away their home to the hero Sir Robert, and then the father shoots himself so that way he does not have to face his daughters.  The daughters know that their father is a waste.  But the eldest Alexandria along with her aunt, are saving children that are being beaten and abused by either their families or employers.  Our hero, who just so happens to be Sir Robert who now owns Alex's home, is also an imformant that has been sent from London to discover who has been stealing children from family's and employers.  There were a few problems I had with the book.  First of all, in the middle of the book Mrs. Kihlstrom brings up that Sir Roberthas been betrothed before to a lady named Pamela. She is brought up in one sentence and never mentioned again.  Which left this reader wondering what happened to this mysterious Pamela?? Did she break his heart? The other thing that bothered me was that throughout the book Sir Robert uses Alex's christian name and she not once, even after they're married, uses his.  Overall I give this story 3 stars.  Like I stated before, the plot was well thought out but the overall book wasn't really that good.	2001-04-29
US	50648510	R3G1UC50EREITH	0380815575	722221564	The Viscount Who Loved Me (Bridgerton Series, Bk. 2)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	absolutly wonderful	This book was absolutly wonderful!!! Julia Quinn did a wonderful job at presenting all of the aspects to making a great book. It begins with a young Anthony being told that the father that he adores has been killed by a bee. Anythony is totally devastated and is certain that the same fate will occur to him when he turns 39. He goes through his entire life, living like a rake until he turns 29 and then he deciedes to marry so that he can have an heir when he passes on in 10 years. But he absolutly refuses to love his wife. It doesn't take him long to choose a wife and it just so happens to be the beautiful sister, Edwina, of the heroine of the story, Kate. Alas Edwina has decieded that she will only marry the sutior that her sister, Kate, accepts. So all of Edwina's sutiors start complimenting Kate trying to win her favor. But everyone can see the Kate is no match for Edwina's beauty. Anthony tries to woo Kate also but her wit stops him quit and he finds that it's much more fun to argue with Kate then try to get him in her good graces. Little does he know that Kate is forming a little tendre for him. Then Anthony's mother throws a country house party together which in the end results in the betrothel of the Anthony and Kate. But he still refuses to love her even though it seems obvious to the reader that he does love her (but you know how men can be!). Over all this was a great book and I highly reccomend it for everyone! I absolutly loved how Julia Quinn used the secret author of the newspaper throughout the book. Very clever! And funny too! The one thing that will always stick out in my mind is how well Miss. Quinn wrote about Kate learning about her mother died and Anthony telling Kate about his father. VERY POWERFUL! It made this reader misty eyed!	2001-04-10
US	50648510	R386E767IXOWJ5	0451190297	549940308	A Fresh Perspective (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	1	2	4	N	N	boring!	This book had to be one of the most boring books I have read in a long time.  I'm sorry to say Miss Fairchild but this wasn't the best book you've written.  I normally love the books you've written but this isn't one of them.  The whole book seemed to lack excitment.  There really wasn't any.  Both the hero and heroine of this book love to paint.  It's part of what makes them such friends. Not to mention that they grew up together.  The hero leaves to go travel the world for a year and when he comes home he can't wait to share everything that has happened and see how everything is the same.  But nothing is the same. Especially not his life long friend.  She has changed into a true woman with curves and all!  Throughout the book we see that the heroine is in love with the hero but the hero isn't sure about what he feels  for the heroine.  Now normally nothing would be wrong with that because that is how most regency's are. However it takes forever for him to realize how he feels and during that time NOTHING happens!  Totally boredom!  I am sorry to say that a book could be this bad but it was.  Better luck next time!	2001-04-10
US	50648510	RMB0HHHR1F87J	0451199731	995368824	Miss Maitland's Letters (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Actually a pretty good book!	At first I wasn't really sure how good this book would be, but the more I read the more I like!  Ms. Kirkland did a wonderful job with description.  And she did a great job pulling me into the story and feeling what the characters were feeling.  The only problem that I had with the story was that the heroine seemed to me to be blind about her &quot;real&quot; true love.  To me it seemed to take a little to long for her to accept the truth of her feelings and figure out that it wasn't her betrothed that wrote her those wonderful letters that she fell in love with but in fact his friend.  Overall it was a really good book that completely kept my attention for the entire book.  I do recommend this book to many people.	2001-03-13
