US	50649946	R2S73OM9NF09L8	B00006K5WV	459181806	Black Belt	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Learn To Defend Yourself Without Being A Black Belt!!!	The title of this publication is, I'd say, unintentionally misleading. To many people, it would lead you to believe the magazine is only aimed at those who are black belts, but take my word for it, ANYONE can benefit from this insightful publication. I recently seen one on a magazine rack, and wanted to skim through it because I found out that many back issues are considered highly collectible and I was hoping to find out why. As soon as I looked at the cover, I found one reason why they are so popular (I'm referring to a June 2005 Edition). On the cover, one of the lead stories concerned \\"Secrets to Controlling Your Fear\\". Then when I opened up the magazine to look at the contents, I seen even more articles of interest: \\"Wisdom Against Weapons\\" and \\"Against The Wall\\"(8 techniques in self defense using the environment). They were illustrated and well formatted. Hey, I learned new ways to defend myself, without even having to step foot in an Karate school. You can't beat a deal like that. <br />Of course, there's the usual gob of advertisements, but what magazines don't have that? And at least this magazine teaches you how you can defend your life, or that of someone else. That, in itself makes the magazine worth subscribing too doesn't it?.  And you ladies out there, don't think for one minute that this is just a \\"men's\\" magazine. In fact in this June 2005 Edition, there is an article on Kerri Kasem ( a lady fighter), who also shows off a few of her techniques. There's another lady mentioned... 14 year old Caitlin Dechelle, who has 3 black belts in various martial arts. And unlike a lot of magazines which feel they have to put people in them wearing nothing or next to nothing to try and help their sales, this magazine's format is clearly focused on one point, showing you HOW TO BECOME A VICTOR INSTEAD OF A VICTIM!!! <br />So in short, no matter your age, no matter your sex, ANYONE can benefit from this intriguing publication.	2005-05-10
US	50649946	R2EN8JQASMJP50	0786888938	995307010	ESPN Sports Almanac 2005: The Definitive Sports Reference Book	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Argument Ender	This superb publication (which I own several editions of), can end just about any argument when it comes to sports. It covers the major sports (football basketball baseball hockey), but what I really like about it is that it also covers an array of other popular sports, such as golf, gymnastics (two of my favorites)tennis, and horse racing. It goes into season records on baseball football basketball and hockey, and contains all-time records. I use it to help me decide which sportscards to invest in. The book contains bios on some sports celebrities, and also has coverage of major sports news events of the previous year. I highly recommend this book for the plain and simple fact that it is one of the most accurate sports reference books published. Plus, as most any of you know, it is put out by the fine folks at ESPN, the same people who have their own tv sports stations. Want to know who has made the most goals in hockey? It's right here. Want to find out who has struck out the most batters in baseball? It's right here. Would you like to find out who has won the most gold medals in either men's or women's gymnastics? Find it here. For me, this book is entertaining and informative. It would make an excellent Birthday/Christmas/Whatever gift for sports fans, and it's a plus for anyone doing research on sports.	2005-03-30
US	50649946	R3ON4HM7FRT6GP	1582972761	530330944	Songwriter's Market	Books	4	5	7	N	N	PUT IT OUT!!!!!!!	A, E, I, O, U, SOME, TIMES, Y. FISHHEADS FISHEADS, ROLLY POLLY FISHHEADS. FISHHEADS FISHHEADS, EAT THEM, YUM.   If any of you out there remember these lyrics from two tunes put out in the 1980's, you probably also remember WHERE you heard them. These two songs,(which in my opinion are some of the most lame ever), were popular on MTV.   And if A E I O U Sometimes Y, and Fishheads can make it on MTV, surely to God, anybody's music can!!!!!!! 8 to 80, blind crippled or crazy, PUT IT OUT and see what happens! You never know till you try. Forgotten felon or soaring saint, anyone can put out music and it be listened too. And don't worry about what individuals say, listen to what the masses say!!!!!!! They are who count. So often so many people are discouraged from their work, their art, by so called \\"friends\\" who's full intention in telling you that your work stinks, is due to their jealous minds. And while true critic friends do exist, it is rare. In other words, don't base your sellibility(is that a word?) on what a few individuals (even yourself) think, but on what the masses think. Ever heard of the term \\"regional sales\\"? Some things sell better in other places than where they originate from. What you can't give away in some sections of the country, might abound in other areas. In other words, even \\"if\\" your critic were actually expressing what they thought was the truth by saying you stink, in other portions of the world, people might think it's the best thing they ever heard. But you'll never know until you try.  Years ago, I, and my friends had a bedroom band( bedroom, because there was no garage attached to the house), and we were our own worst critics. We thought we stank, but we kept playing, at least until we were distracted by things (girls), then we quit playing together. It wasn't long until people of the neighborhood were coming up to us and asking why we had STOPPED playing!!! You never know until you put it out. And note this: I took a writing class in the early 90's under a well known author who told us that the average manuscript gets about 70 rejections before it's published. The same holds true for music.  As for this book, It is published by the same fine folks who publish the Writer's Market, a company that has existed for many many years. It has an outstanding reputation for providing both aspiring and well known writers the most updated information on book and magazine publishers, and has the same reputation for music companies and the like. There's lots of practical information contained in these pages. There are music publishers as well as producers and record companies. Each has the name of the business, their address and/or website, and often lists email addresses and phone numbers. The information can help you find someone to at least look at your work. If the Songwriter's Market publishers, find out a company has a pattern of ripping people off(a rarity), they stop listing them in their guide. If you want, need, a publication that can be a stepping stone to stardom, order this fine publication today.	2005-03-21
US	50649946	RG62HN0OIQX2I	1582972745	662474246	2005 Novel & Short Story Writer's Market	Books	4	13	14	N	N	YOUR GUIDE TO GETTING PUBLISHED	I've read and used the regular Writer's Market, and found this one to be of equal valuable. It gives you publisher's names, and addresses. Some note phone numbers, and many list email addresses and/or websites. This book can be an valuable tool in getting published. The first time I had an article published (and paid for it), was due to the fact that I obtained the address from the Writer's Market, and it's the same fine folks who publish this wonderful guide. But besides listing various publishers, it also contains information to help you get the best results in submitting your material. Information I might add, that has helped me tremendously.  <br />Now here is somethings everyone who writes (or would like to write) need to know; I took a course in college concerning creative writing. My teacher was an published author of several books, and ghost writes for a popular publication. She told everyone in the class that writers average 70 rejections before getting published. And that applies to both new writers, as well as seasoned pros. And let me state this about all you \\"doubting Thomas'\\" out there who say to yourselves, \\"no one would ever publish anything I wrote\\". You won't know until you try!!! And why be like a lot of people who, later in life, live with regrets because they didn't try.  I cannont count the number of people who have beat astronomical odds and succeeded at getting their work published. So if you want a book that will help you to at least get your work looked at, you'll need this informative publication. The one question that has been brought up to me is \\"How do I know they won't rip me off?\\". Well, anything is possible, but I have never known anyone to be taken advantage of by publishers of this book. But if you find yourself hesitant to send in a manuscript, simply contact the US copyright office, fill out the proper forms, pay the fee, and have your work copyrighted. That way, you at least have some sort of documentation of your work. but letme stress again, I have never known of anyone using any of the Writer's Market publications to have been taken advantage of. So why not get this guide, and GO FOR IT!!!	2005-03-16
US	50649946	R1BNUML234P6DH	1582972710	304603884	2005 Writers Market	Books	5	10	11	N	N	The Average Joe's Guide To Getting Published	I'm just your average joe, but in the late 80's I purchased a copy of this superb manual and got published...and paid for it!!! Whether you're a man or woman, whether you're so rich you stink or living in a cardboard box poor, you'll benefit from this guide if you are an inspired writer or just simply love writing. Now please note this: I studied creative writing from an professional author of several books, who also ghost writes for a major publication. Her words to everyone in the class was \\"you'll average 70 rejections before getting published. This applies to beginners as well as seasoned pros.\\"  <br />And for all you doubting Thomas' out there, note this: Write it and put it out. You might just get published on your first attempt, but you'll never know until you try. Don't concern yourself with what your peers think. If your conscious bothers you enough to write it, write and put it out.  <br />I got a whopping $4.00 for my first article, but it inspired me enough to try again. The next time I got published, not only did I get a good paycheck, but I succeeded in getting the magazine to change one of its policies. A policy concerning pen pal ads that made it safer for advertisers.  <br />With this guide, you'll get details on book publishers, magazine publishers, their addresses, phone numbers, and if they have one, their emails. You'll get publishers of everything from erotica, to religion, from sports to entertainment. If you want to get published, this book can help.	2005-03-04
US	50649946	R3QOOQXN872KIR	0671019872	760319819	My Secret Garden: Women's Sexual Fantasies	Books	5	28	33	N	N	Will Steam Glasses	Nancy Friday asked women around the world, to send in their sexual fantasies and experiences. What she got even shocked her. Some of, if not THE most provocative fantasies and experiences ever published. I have owned(notice I said \\"have owned\\") a couple of copies of this extraordinary book. But each time I bought one, someone would want to \\"see it\\", and I would never get it back. Like Forbidden Flowers (a similar publication by Nancy Friday), anytime someone seen me reading a copy, they'd want to read a page. Only thing is, I never had anyone who could only read one page. They would be so captivated by its contents, they'd read more and more. I've had as many as 5 women at a time, come up to me and inquire as to what I was reading, then ask to let them \\"read a page\\". As they read, mouths dropped open, eyes would widen, faces would turn flush, and giggles galore would occur. It's amazing how a book can make women in their 20's 30's 40's and 50's act.  <br />This is in no way like one of those \\"letters\\" books you've heard about in porno shops. Those letter books are not even in the same league!!! And its not a book with a bunch of 4 letter words in it to help sales, though there are a very few of them in it. No, it's what, and how it's said that makes this one risque' to say the least. Millions have been printed, and millions have sold. It's been a few years since I owned a copy of this book, and for various reasons. But I love to write reviews for Amazon, and since it is a book I've read several times through (grin), I felt I should write about it. <br />Getting back to the book, be prepared to be shocked. It is totally uncensored, and includes Nancy's own research into human relations. If you desire to find out if other people have had similar fantasies and experiences that you've had. If you seek to learn about research done on the topic of sexual fantasies, you'll want to read My Secret Garden, and Forbidden Flowers.	2005-03-04
US	50649946	R1F44O1TUA1C4S	0886879388	49132393	The World Almanac and Book of Facts 2005 (World Almanac and Book of Facts)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	No Home Or  Office Should Be Without It	First of all, please allow me to state that I own several editions to this terrific publication, from as far back as 1991. I find it both informative, and entertaining. It is a book that covers a wide array of topics. Here are a FEW of the topics covered in this huge publication: top news stories of 2004, chronology of events of 2003 - 2004, notable supreme court decisions, major actions of the 108th congress, top grossing concerts of all time, top grossing movies of all time, celebrity birthplaces and birthdates,  members of the US supreme court, accident statistics, basic first aid, eating disorders, nutritive value of certain food, where to get help (health),US consumer price index of 2003-2004, world's 50 largest banking companies, US and world economics, taxes, your rights as a tax payer, energy, meteorology, historic world disasters, women in the US armed forces statistics, air distances between major world cities, U S population, world history, state statistics, nation statistics, world maps, world nation flags, consumer information business directory, world exploration & geography, the seven wonders of the world, selected world historical figures, US history, the U S Constitution, Lincoln's Gettysburg address, how a bill becomes law, official presidential election results 1948-2000, national parks list, largest US cities, associations and societies, headquarters of selected US religious groups, baseball football basketball racing & fishing records. A perfect gift for any student or trivia buff, and a master reference book. It is a New York Times bestseller and has been printed since 1868. If you want a book that delivers nothing but entertaining information, it's hard to beat this one.	2005-02-28
US	50649946	R1PA3KBNP5ZH4Y	0786887168	390651256	ESPN Sports Almanac 2004: The Definitive Sports Reference Book (ESPN INFORMATION PLEASE SPORTS ALMANAC)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	THE ARGUMENT ENDER!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!	I love sports, and when I need to get the facts on sports, I turn to a number of sources, including this informative book. Ever wanted to know who has hit the most homeruns in baseball? It's in this book! Want to know who has won the most NASCAR races? Get the book! Do you like to read about the history of the Summer and Winter Olympics, as well as look at the more popular stats from them? Get the book! How about hockey, basketball, football, golf, or boxing records? If any of these tickle your fancy, well you know... It goes into detail about a variety of sports and well documents interesting facts about them. But if you are into the big 4 (baseball football hockey and basketball) you're more than likely going to fall in love with this book. It covers season stats as well as all time statistics. Ever get into an argument with friends over a sports topic? Well unless it's a really off the wall topic, this publication can end the argument. Now I know WHY the Yankees bragged about, now I understand why Richard Petty is the real king of racing, now I know why movies were made about the Dallas Cowboys. It's because they all kick rear!!! If you want something that will entertain you and inform you, If you are looking for something that would make a great gift for the sports fan in your life, it's hard to beat the ESPN Almanac!!!	2004-02-25
US	50649946	R3U35BRO09X6H	1892051206	33649839	Guinness Book of World Records, 2004	Books	4	2	3	N	N	INFORMATIVE AND PRETTY!!!!!!!!!!	The hardback edition of this book is one of the most beautiful I've ever seen! As for the contents, well, they're exceptional. It covers world records in sports, human endurance, nature, movies, tv, music, human achievement, and more. Who is the oldest living person? Find out in this book. What is the fastest speed attained by a jet? Find out in this informative publication. Who really has had the most gold records by a single male performer? All you have to do is get this book, and you'll know. There's loads of colorful pictures, and on pages that are made of good stock. The book is a trivia buffs dream. Other books I would recommend for trivia buffs, are The World Almanac, and the ESPN Sports Almanac. All three are superb. If you want to know what the world records are for an array of topics, please get this insightful publication.	2004-02-25
US	50649946	R3CPEA0SKS1YQ2	0886879108	839139642	The World Almanac and Book of Facts 2004	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The Student And Trivia Buffs Friend	Where do I begin with this monumental publication???!!! It covers a wide array of information on different topics. The book is ideal for students and trivia buffs. I find it fascinating and I look forward to it coming out year after year. Topics in this edition include: Profiles of 2004 Presidential Candidates, Presidential Caucus Dates of 2004, a year in review about some of the top news stories of 2003, an overview of the United States Government under the Bush Administration, Historical Anniversaries, Vital statistics such as birth and death rates, Notable US Assassination attempts, Environmental statistics, Speeds of certain animals ( I didn't know a jackal could run up to 35 miles per hour!) There's a section on notable writers of the past and present, a list of the original names of selected entertainers, Education statistics, A selected list of 2002 Grammy winners, a list of Nobel Prize winners from 1901 to 2002, a section noting highway speed limits in the USA by State, A section on world history, Flags of the world, Origins of the names of US States, United States history, the words to the Declaration of Independence, Listings on Disasters, Energy, National Defense, Magazines that are best sellers in the United States, Religion, Telecommunications, Aerospace, Taxes, Social Security, Travel and Tourism, Sports (including baseball basketball football racing, fishing , winter and summer olympic records, and much much more!!! If you want a book your whole family can enjoy, you will want to add this one to your home. It is also an ideal book for any office, or other establishment.I'd love to be able to read this book while in the waiting line at a fine restaurant. Did you know the Rolling Stones hold the number 1 position for grossing the most amount of money for an American since 1985? Or that the Eagles &quot;Their Greatest Hits 1971-1975 has sold more albums than any other in history? Or that there were only 249,441 enlisted personnel in the Army in 1940? Well, I knew about the Rolling Stones, but not about the Eagles and that about the Army. And there is so much more in this wonderful publication to read. I highly recommend it. I own several copies myself, and look forward to getting more. If you want a book that is a best seller and if both fun and informative to read, you can't hardly beat this one!!!	2004-02-17
US	50649946	R26LM5U2XS2P89	0865261008	27615165	Pirates of Colonial North Carolina	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Learn About Pirates In This First Class Book!!!	I bought this book for my mom who likes to read about pirates, particularly Blackbeard, and I read it myself, since I too, love to read about them. This is NOT a very thick book,Only 72 pages, but it is packed with loads of information on the top pirates of the day, along with short bios on some of the not so famous ones. In the back of the book, it lists the fates of some of more famous ones along with what happened to a few of their crewmen. In short it is a \\"Who's Who\\" of piracy. It's ghastly to think that most pirates met their end at the end of a rope, but according to this publication, that is just what happened. This book contains the more popular illustrations of pirates, in other words, they are drawings by artists of what the pirates actually looked like. You know, like when artists make drawings at trials... that sort of art. A few of the \\"gentlemen\\" included in this publication are Stede Bonnet, and Edward Thatch (Blackbeard), plus \\"ladies\\" like Anne Bonny, Mary Read, plus other swashbucklers. What I really like about it is that it goes into detail about their lives, and as to why some of them turned to piracy for a \\"career\\", plus there is an interesting page on How To Know A Pirate Ship.The writer used some reliable resources, among them The NC Dept of Cultural Resources, and the Dept of Archives & History. A Superb book for people of all ages, Great for anyone researching piracy.	2004-02-16
US	50649946	R2LS2V8LPH5DTK	1582971897	659143570	2004 Writer's Market (Writer's Market, 2004)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Superb Information For The Writer	Are you looking for someone to publish your book, article, poetry, or someone to consider your play or movie script? Are you looking for an agent? If so, you need this valuable tool. The cover pretty well sums it up: 8,000 book and magazine editors to buy what you write. The book includes contacts for over 300 agents, plus 700 contests and awards. Most entries list what the publisher is looking for, how much they will pay for your work, and what rights they want to purchase. It goes into detail about when the publisher was established in the business, and either their mailing address, email address, or phone numbers. This book gives you access to the \\"Big Boys\\" such as Reader's Digest, Cosmopolitan, MS, The Atlantic Monthly, and Parade. Categories for magazines include: General Interest, Gay & Lesbian, Women's, Sports, Juvenille, Child Care, Regional, Literary, Home & Garden, Animal, Automotive, Comic Books, Health & Fitness, Hobby & Craft, Nature, Teen, Religious, Trade Magazines, Travel, Science and Sex. Book categories include: Adventure, Comic Books, Confession, Ethnic, Erotica, Fantasy, Religion, Gothic, Horror, Literary, Juvenille, Plays, and Biography. There are many more categories in both magazines and books, but too many to list. The Writer's Market also contains priceless tips on how to get published, how to estimate word count, manuscript format, mailing submissions, query letters, and much more. I have purchased the book myself since 1993, and I have been published ... and PAID FOR IT!!!!!!!! Please let me stress this, If you want to write, but don't feel you have what it takes, heck, try it and see. You never know until you try. I studied writing under a published author, and she told the class that any given article etc. gets an average of 70 rejections, so if this is your first try and you get a rejection, don't give up! I would also recommend the Literary Marketplace. It too is a superb manual for writer's. The 2004 Writer's Market has over 1100 pages, plus gives you info on finding other writing books of key interest. If you have written, are writing, or want to write a book, article, poem, play, tv or movie script, this book can be a tremendous help. Order yours today!!!	2004-02-10
US	50649946	R2WDRU4ZDARUTO	0895870983	183961487	Blackbeard and Other Pirates of the Atlantic Coast	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Accurate	It's one of the best books I've read concerning piracy, and is fairly accurate. The one part I really love about this book, is of course, the one on Blackbeard. Regardless what kind of person he was, anyone can be inspired over the fact, that he was literally fearless. Instead of running from a fight, he would run to them. And when he died, it took a lot of men to bring him down, and even then it was a bloody battle. From Stede Bonnet to Calico Jack, this book brings you the bios of some of the most infamous/famous pirates ever.	2004-02-04
US	50649946	R3UVVJZS6YTIER	0671741020	786926972	Forbidden Flowers: More Women's Sexual Fantasies	Books	5	70	75	N	N	Would Make A Playboy Blush	Nancy Friday asked women from around the world to send in their sexual experiences and fantasies. The result was some of the most provocative reading ever published. If you embarrass easily, this book is not for you. Just about every sexual taboo is mentioned in this book and in great detail. But beyond the fantasies and experiences of these women, are the comments and observations of Nancy Friday herself. This book can be an awakening for any man or woman. An awakening in that, if you have had a certain type of fantasy or experience and feel that you are the only person in the world who has had such, you may learn of others who have had similar ones. Or you may be awakened to fantasies you have never thought of, but after reading the book, find yourself thinking about them, or desiring to do them. I have owned a number of copies of this revealing book only to have different individuals borrow them and never return them. I recall once when I was in a snack bar reading the book, some women noticed it and inquired about its contents. I told them what the book was about and they said, it's very good on my part to be interested in what women think about. They then wanted to read a page, just to see what it was all about. But they didn't end up reading only one page. They kept on reading and reading and reading. I finally had to ask for the book in order to get it back, and half of them were blushing. This isn't a porn book by any means, then again no porn book is even in this ones league!!! For various reasons, I don't own an edition of this book now, but, one reason I don't is that if I did, I know it would only be a short time before someone would want to borrow it, and I'd never see it again. If you enjoy reading about women's real sexual fantasies and experiences, you will want this book.	2003-11-07
US	50649946	R19ACNG1VB3U2J	0671790188	231577523	The Brooke book	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A Highly Sought After Collectible	The Brooke Book is one of the most popular Brooke Shields memorabilia items. I own one myself. But mine is the (I suppose you could call it the &quot;revised&quot; edition) second edition book. On my edition there is a headshot photo of brooke from around the early 1980's. The 1978 Edition shows her sitting on a floor. The book covers Brooke's home and professional life, from her birth to around 1978. You might think the price is too high for this book, but I have seen them sell for much higher on auction, and I've seen most bookstores sell them for a flat $500.00	2003-11-06
US	50649946	R3KREIZVBL32WL	1930692153	463703116	Beckett Football Card Price Guide	Books	4	9	11	N	N	One Of The Most Comprehensive Guides On The Market	The Beckett Guides are the most popular guides in the world, bar none. And what I've always liked about Beckett is the depth of information contained in his guides. With this one, you get listings of sets from as far back as the late 1800's to 2001. Now please note before I go any further, if you buy this guide and by chance your card or set is not listed, it does not mean your card(s) are worthless, it simply means that what you have may not currently be receiving alot of market activity, or may be a card or cards that aren't currently known to exist. You must realize there are virtually thousands of sets on the market and newer ones coming out every week by various companies, so it is almost impossible to keep up with every one produced. So Beckett concentrates on sets that are both known to exist and have heavy market activity. Oh and one more thing, if you have rubber bands around your cards, please get rid of them. Go to your local card shop or go online and get some card holders. Condition is a key element in a cards worth, and rubber bands can cause severe damage to cards. Now, as for this book, Beckett has sets listed in ABC order and lists the individual cards of the set. So if you are putting together a set, and you see yours listed in this guide, you have the perfect checklist to keep up with what you do and do not have. For each set listed, there's a little bit of information included, and there may be production numbers included in the trivia. Beckett shows you how to collect, how to preserve your cards, how to determine condition, shares football card terminology, and has other interesting facts about football card collecting. Ahh to go to a game and load up on hotdogs. Collecting football cards brings me back to the time when I was in high school and went to the games to pull for my home team (and yes, I ate a lot of hot dogs then too). Collecting football cards make me think about the times when me and my dad would watch a game together, screaming atthe players to run run run. So as I'm sure you already know, collecting football cards for most people is more than just an investment. And when I look through this Beckett guide, I see lots of cards that came out when I was younger, and they bring me back to a time(The late 60's, The 70's, and early 80's) when playing football was one of the things I loved to do the most. Beckett guides have remained the most sought after guides since the 80's and are used the world over. Some of the brands of cards you will find in this edition include Fleer, Upper Deck, Topps, Score, Playoff, and Donruss. Again, there are many other brands listed in the guide, but these are some of the most heavily traded ones. This book is a valuable tool for any true football card collector.	2002-07-12
US	50649946	R1M0H7GWE133J4	0399526676	479775653	The Address Book: How to Reach anyone who is anyone	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The Most Reliable Source For Addresses	You know those advertisements you see in magazines and newspapers where you can order celebrity address lists? Well, I've sent money in to a few of them and mailed off many letters, only to have junk mail concerning joining fan clubs fill my mail box. Now, I'm not saying all of these businesses are like this, I'm sure some are legit. But, if you want the most reliable source for addresses, you can't beat Michael Levine!... I've purchased his books for several years, and because of his painstaking steps at compiling information for his books, I have many autographs I never thought I'd get. Included in my collection are autographs from stars such as Stacy Keach(Gosh, I miss the Mike Hammer TV Series) Tom Glavine, Phyliss Diller, Richard Petty(The Real King of Racing) Pete Rose(Put him in the Hall!...)and Dan Quayle. And while you could get some mail returned to you stamped \\"address unknown\\" it's generally because (as I'm sure you already know) many celebrities move several times during the course of their careers. I'm an autograph hound, and Michael Levine's books have been a tremendous help to me.The book not only contains lots of movie star addresses, but, also addresses to bunches of corporations, political leaders, music stars, and other people from various vocations. And as I'm sure you must realize, not every known celebrity is listed in this guide, only the ones most people are looking for. In short, this is a book that attacks the quest for the most sought after addresses and websites in the world!	2002-07-08
US	50649946	RCLXXMD5U8VY4	0785273468	998374529	1,001 Things You Always Wanted to Know About the Bible,  But Never Thought to Ask	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Long Title	I love this book and I own it, so I can say without a doubt that it's both entertaining and informative. But I disagree with the title of the book, it should be something like, 1,001 things about the Bible and other religious topics. For example, one of the &quot;things&quot; mentioned in the book pertains to Leonardo Da Vinci, which as we all know is not a figure found anywhere in the Bible. But his reason for being in this book is simple, he was the master artist behind the famous &quot;Last Supper&quot; painting, which I found very intriquing since I never knew who actually did the splendid art. In fact, an entire chapter (chapter 15 Music and Art, with numbers 811-867 of the list of things) lists people and selected works of various artists, who in some form or fashion, have used the topic of God in their life and/or their craft. And this is just one such chapter, there are others. So the book is NOT totally dedicated to the Bible itself. This is not to say that this book is not fascinating. On the contrary, it's one of the most fascinating books I have ever encountered and well worth the money that was paid for it ( it was bought by my sister as a Christmas present for me). You will learn interesting facts about the Bible you may or may not have been aware of, and about famous people. This is a book that anyone can read and enjoy. I higly recommend it.	2002-06-26
US	50649946	R12V5VD8HRHVPE	0914875094	120175283	This Haunted Land: Where Ghosts Still Roam	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Perfect For Halloween Or Around A Campfire!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!	Folks, are you looking for that book you can read to your whole family without having to skip over a half a dozen curse words? Would you like a book that is SO well written it will even put YOU on the edge of your seats in terror and suspense? Well here it is ( or rather one of them, she has more) The first time I ever read one of Nancy's books, it was Ghost's of the Carolina's and it made the hair on the back of my neck stand on end. It is that good. The same holds true for this one. Nancy did her homework and she came up with some of the most terrifying ghost stories around. Now, unlike many writers who come up with their own \\"ghosts\\", Nancy found ones that have actully been reported to exist, and she tells them in such a way that it makes you actually feel like you are right there experiencing them. This is one of those books you read when you want to be \\"spooky\\" in the comfort of your own home and reading it by yourself, or you're out in the woods with your family and they want to hear a good ghost story while nestled around the campfire. Better yet, read it to them on Halloween night and you just might scare them enough to where they will all want to sleep with you in your bed. Nancy Roberts is the Shakespeare of Haunted Stories.	2002-06-20
US	50649946	RTQ3TP8PFX06C	193069217X	214215279	Beckett Baseball Card Price Guide (Beckett Baseball Card Price Guide, 24)	Books	4	34	38	N	N	The Most Popular Guide In The Hobby!!!	Beckett publications have the most sought after price guides in the hobby of Baseball. I've collected sports cards since 1972, and Beckett is used by more people than any other guide in the world. As for this book, you're getting a guide with over 1,000 pages of informative prices for some of todays (and yesterday's) hottest sets. Sets from as far back as 1887 to 2002. What I've always admired about Beckett guides is how extensive their listings are. Please note, while Beckett and other guides attempt to give you the most extensive coverage of the Baseball card market, it's virtually impossible to list every single set in existence. So if you get a guide and you do NOT see your card or set listed, it doesnt mean it isn't worth anything, it just means that your particular card or set may not be known of in the open market, or that it's not one of the most traded cards on the market.<br />The guide is set up so that the brand names are listed in alphabetical order, there's a section on the history of baseball cards, a guide to help you determine the condition of your cards (and folks, please know ahead of time, it's not kosher to put rubber bands around your collection) tips on how to Sell them, a Terminology section, a small section on how to collect, where to find them and how to preserve them. Each of the sets are broken down to list each single card of the set. You may find production numbers in the listing, as well as any known error cards or other variations. Rookie cards are designated with the RC mark. Here are some examples of the kinds of sets Beckett has listed in the guide: Topps, Fleer, Donruss, Upper Deck, Sportflics, Bazooka, Old Judge, Squirt, Topps Big, Topps Tiffany, Score, O-Pee-Chee, Denny's, Nabisco, Pacific, Ralston Purina. You will get listings of lots of subsets and parallel sets, and you will get photos of certain cards. If you are putting together a set, and it's listed in this guide, you have the perfect checklist to help you keep up with what you do and do not have. This book is a valuable tool for any baseball card collector or investor.t you do and do not have. This book is a valuable tool for any baseball card collector or investor.	2002-06-18
US	50649946	R3C6E2NMJDBO2O	0872495876	255933490	Ghosts of the Carolinas	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Real Hauntings	There are ghost stories, and then there are Ghost Stories. Some ghost stories are fiction, while others are real. This book deals with those that are real. If you have even one iota of belief in the paranormal, you will be fascinated by this book. I own it along with two other of Nancy Roberts ghost books, namely, \\"This Haunted Land Where The Ghosts Still Roam\\" and \\"Ghosts Of The Old North State\\". Just to give you an example of the validity of Nancy's books, please allow me to share with you the story of the Brown Mountain Lights. These lights (which I have seen myself) can be viewed by anyone on just about any night, on Brown Mountain, which is nestled near the Pisgah National Park's main highway. The famous mountain is registered as a historical landmark in North Carolina, and at one of the look outs along the Pisgah highway there is a sign, placed there by the State of North Carolina, detailing the story behind the mysterious lights. So folks, these stories are REAL. These are not Nancy Roberts \\"made up\\" ghost stories, these are actual accounts of real ghosts. As for what the Brown Mountain Lights look like, let me say that they look like huge balls of fire. They suddenly appear on the mountain in different locales, and move slowly up the mountain, then simply disappear. They have been seen for centuries, and scientists cannot explain what they are. Years ago, Tommy Fayle (I hope I spelled his last name right) put out a song called \\"The Brown Mountain Lights\\". So this is no isolated story, this is a Legend. And this is just one of the many horrifying stories you can read about in Nancy Roberts books. The Hound Of Goshen is terrifying, and so are all the stories in her books. Ghost Of The Carolina's is a book you can read to your family or to yourself. It's a great one for Halloween, or anytime you want a good \\"spooky\\" story. Be WARNED, Nancy shares her stories in an expert manner. Heck, when it comes to terror, she could give Stephen King a run for the money. Soif you're a person who gets terrified easily, you may not want to read this book. If you want to read true accounts of hauntings in the South, I challenge you to purchase this fascinating book.	2002-06-11
US	50649946	R39HDP8NHQ32GQ	0786885343	251939817	2002 ESPN Information Please Sports Almanac: The Definitive Sports Reference Book	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A Fun Book Plus A Necessity	Would'nt you like a book that covers records for ALL the popular sports, instead of just one or two? Well you've come to the right place!!! Baseball, college Basketball, Pro Basketball, College Football, Pro Football, Horse Racing, Formula Racing, Nascar, Hockey, Tennis, Golf, Summer Olymipics, Winter Olympics, Bowling, Track and Field, Boxing, and Fishing, are just a FEW of the sports covered in this extra thick publication!!! You get last years season records for baseball, football, and basketball, plus, the most popular All Time Records. There's hundreds of breath taking photos as well as coverage of last years World Series, and All Time World Series Records. Ever had an argument with someone about a popular sports record? There are tons of records recorded in this fine publication. Want to improve your knowledge on sports trivia without having to thumb through thousands of sports memorabilia books? Well, here's your answer! Folks, to put it simple, this book is the best publication for sports trivia in the World PERIOD I started buying this book in 1998, and it's a big help for me. I can keep up with how my favorite players and teams are faring, plus, I need it to help me pick whose sportscards I'm going to invest in. So can you tell me who the all time Rushing Leader is? If you can't, you can find out by getting this book! ENJOY!!!	2002-06-10
US	50649946	R10KS8RAMW4MHZ	1581343167	641355416	The Holy Bible: English Standard Version (Red Letter Edition)	Books	5	1	8	N	N	Action Suspense Drama Romance Mystery And More!...	If you read this book for no other reason, read it for its entertainment value. Yes, that's right, its entertainment value!... From Genesis To Revelation, the Bible is packed with lots of interesting reading. For a book that was written thousands of years ago, no other book EVER published has sold more copies!... The Bible holds a World Record!... It is the biggest selling book of ALL TIME. And if you read it you will know why. This is a book that inspires, this is a book that can put you on the edge of your seats in suspense. the translation makes it easier to read than before and it's a great gift idea for those getting married or going off to college etc. If you have an empty life, the Bible can change your life. You know I can't help but wonder why people vote no on this review I wrote. But that's ok, the review is on the money. This book is easier to understand than the king james version.	2002-04-11
US	50649946	R3QNFPU7A3WU33	060960855X	641357804	KISS and Make-up	Books	5	0	0	N	N	THE GENE THE WHOLE GENE AND NOTHING BUT THE GENE	It's that simple. This tell all book chronicles the life and times of the famous KISS rocker known as Gene Simmons. From his birth, to when the book was completed, you'll learn just about everything there is to know about Gene Simmons (at least what he is willing to tell you). What I really love is the family pics of Gene in his younger years. Who'd think the charming little boy in those photos would grow up to be a Fire Breathing Demon In THE GREATEST ROCK AND ROLL BAND OF ALL TIME? Gene's story is right here. It's entertaining, and I found it to be inspiring as well. In other words, This book kicks [behind]!!!	2002-03-28
US	50649946	R3RB5ZLOXSYJD9	0609807641	855250915	Beckett Official Price Guide to Baseball Cards 2002, 21st Edition	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The Most Popular Baseball Card Price Guide In The World	To begin with, no other baseball card price guide even comes close to the number of sales as Beckett. Literally, the world over, Beckett is used by more people than in other guide on the market. This fine publication also has monthly guides covering baseball, basketball, football, and hockey. Beckett does extensive research on the hobby and sends analysts all over the world to keep track on what's happening in the baseball card market. Dr. James Beckett is an expert in the field of baseball card collecting and in this book gives readers valuable tips on how to preserve, store, and grade cards as well as lists in detail some of the most popular and sought after cards ever produced. With all the cards on the market, it is almost impossible to list them all in one book, so Beckett lists the ones that show the most interest to the general public. Now if you are into collecting rarities, you'll really want this price guide since Beckett lists some of the most rarest cards ever made. Many sets and singles alike are listed along with values on most all of them. Believe it or not, but, there are some cards on the market today that are so rare, a clear value cannot be placed on them, they are literally priceless. These include the very popular ONE OF ONES. These are cards where only one of each card in a set is produced.<BR>If you are looking for a guide that has the most up-to-date information, the most listings and the most reliability, you can't beat Beckett. Please note this: If you go to Beckett or any other guide and cannot find a value for your card or cards, dont think for a moment that what you have is worthless. Like I stated earlier, with so many cards on the market today it is almost impossible to list them all, plus, some cards are produced that are so rare that NO ONE in the hobby may know about them until years later. For example, in 1990 Topps produced its regular baseball set including a Frank Thomas rookie. What no one knew was that there was also a very rare error card of Mr. Thomas produced. For years it was not even given a value, then finally the error card was listed with only a small value. Time passed and the card held that estimated value until it began a month by month rapid surge upward. As of August 2001, that same card is worth well over 500.00 <BR>I recommend this book to anyone who wants to find out what certain cards are worth or who would like to learn about some of the history of the baseball card market.	2001-08-31
US	50649946	R2V3H6UJZV4SXF	1930692099	782039285	6: Beckett Racing Price Guide and Alphabetical Checklist (BECKETT RACING COLLECTIBLES AND DIE-CAST PRICE GUIDE)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Most Sought After Price Guide In The Hobby	Folks, let's make this nice and simple, Beckett Price Guides are the most accepted price guides in the world PERIOD No other racing price guide even comes close to the popularity of Beckett. Collectors the WORLD over look enthusiastically for each new Beckett release. As for this book, I dare say you will not find another publication that covers its listings in greater detail. This book lists thousands of cards and hundreds of die-cast car values. With the card listings, many sets are given a value along with vital information about each one. Then many sets are broken down into listings for each individual card and a value placed on each card. There's listings for vintage sets as well as some of the more popular ones. Photos are included as well as special notations about things like error cards, rare subsets and the like. This guide will be a big help to anyone interested in the racing hobby. Beckett guides are the ONLY ones I currently use.	2001-08-31
US	50649946	R35Y44VF3NA3I5	0743418301	391533408	Talking Dirty With The Queen Of Clean	Books	5	19	19	N	N	nothing beats a good short cut	I, like everyone else in the world who have to clean, love and need shortcuts to doing the dirty deed, and this book is a must for such as we. Whether you're a full time janitor or someone who's expecting guests over soon and your maid just kicked the bucket, this book can save a lot of time and heartache. It's got all kinds of helpful hints for use in cleaning different rooms of the house, and darn good ones too!  And this Queen of Clean can save you bunches of bucks! You'll learn how you can use inexpensive items to do your cleaning with. I own a cleaning business and  when I do professional cleaning, I use very expensive materials to clean peoples homes and businesses with , and believe me, it costs them as well. But the suggestions Linda C.Cobb uses in her book can keep you from having to use professional services, and it's easy to understand too!	2000-09-20
US	50649946	R61F4YD9PPMYZ	0886878470	627322263	World Almanac and Book of Facts 2000	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A Best Seller And Perfect Gift	Whether you're hoping to get on the TV show &quot;Who Wants To Be A  Millionaire&quot;, a grade school- high school -or College student,a lover  of trivia, or someone who loves to read about a large variety of topics,  the World Almanac is hard to beat. It has gobs and gobs of information in  its 1024 pages, and has even made it to #1 on the New York Times Best  Seller list. Here is just a taste of the delectable topics covered in this  entertaining and informative publication: Economic Agricultural Employment  and Crime statistics, Baseball, Basketball, Hockey, Golf, Tennis, Boxing,  World history, U.S. history, Science &amp; Technology, States of the Union  with information and history of each state, Countries of the World with  information about each one along with  a brief outline of their histories,  Travel, Health, and Consumer information, and much much more. This book has  so much neat stuff in it it's well worth the price. It lists the all-time  television programs from 1961 to Feb 1, 1999, gives the estimated  population's of the American Colonies from 1630-1780, gives the complete  words to &quot;The Star Spangled Banner&quot;, the words to the  Presidential Oath Of Office, lists past Nobel Prize winners, has a business  directory of some of the United States major corporations including phone  numbers web addresses and mailing addresses, and has bunches and bunches  more information contained inside. It is one of my  all-time favorite  books. If you want to read a book that you can use for years to come, this  is one to own, and if you're a collector, be sure to pick up the next  edition as well.	2000-08-24
US	50649946	R3F1NFW42OCAKE	0553229702	277780747	Beyond Death's Door	Books	5	39	43	N	N	A compelling book	This isn't one of those books written by some quack out in left field, this one is written by a doctor, and one who has brought the dead back to life on more than one occasion. Here in this shocking book, people who have  died and been brought back to life give their accounts as to what happened  to them on &quot;The Other Side&quot;. There is a Heaven, and there is a  Hell, and once you read the true accounts from these ordinary people,  you'll understand why you need to make a decision concerning Jesus Christ.   Many of the folks in this book detail the horrors of Hell ,  and many share  the warm loving and peaceful experience of Heaven. I have bought a number  of copies of this book, and each time I lend a copy to a friend, it is  never seen again. After one reads it, they share it with another , and then  another and so on. This book will make you stop and think about death and  about the after life. Get a copy today !  I welcome anyone who wants to  write me  and I will answer all inquiries when possible.	2000-07-13
US	50649946	R1CTD2VH6OU5VD	0449911470	763579968	Power of Positive Thinking	Books	5	47	58	N	N	change your life	I use to be a skeptic to the teachings of this book... that is until I read it and took to heart everything contained inside, then my life changed. And this book can and will work for you. All that is required is  an open mind, a belief in God, studying this book every single day, and  doing exactly what it says. The number of copies of this book are in the  millions !  Ordinary folk and world famous celebrities have studied and  followed its principles. People have been inspired by it and changed the  course of their lives and the lives of  the people around them. To give you  a sample of its contents, here are just a few chapter titles: Expect the  best and Get It, How to break the worry habit, How to have constant energy,  How to get people to like you,  Many more inspiring chapters are contained  in this informative manual. Mr. Peale is an expert in this field and has  written several other self help manuals. This book was originally published  in 1952, made best seller lists and helped millions of people. If you don't  get this book you are really missing out. Whether you're a parent, single  parent, teen, 30 something, senior citizen,  corporate executive, or  janitor, if you are heavy burdened, this book can change your life . This  is a book designed to inspire faith in God and destroy anxieties in your  life. Don't say you'll order it some other time, procrastination is an ugly  word... order this book today.	2000-06-13
