US	50641439	R35AV0ZCBL8DTF	0671753819	896219190	The Last Picture Show	Books	4	37	40	N	N	1950s Texas setting; universal small-town themes abound	Wow.  Like the movie that was based on it, this book is one of those almost-forgotten gems of modern art. Other folks here have outlined the plot--such as it is--and the characters.  I am just here to add my own endorsing reflections, for what they're worth. <br /> <br />Larry McMurtry really nailed it on the head where small-town America is concerned. The ties that bind, the price you pay for being different in ANY way, and how, in Lois' words, \\"anything gets old if you do it often enough.\\" (I grew up in a town that had a \\"show\\" that didn't get movies until a year or two after they'd played in the big cities.  And I had a teacher or two as lazy as Coach Popper (none as chauvinistic, however).  People who went to \\"off\\" to college were the exeption rather than the rule--much as it was in Thalia. We had boys and girls like Duane, Sonny, and Jacy, too--though I don't remember hearing of any were close to their livestock. . .if you know what I mean:)) At least two of the characters here had married young--because that's what you did and what else was there to do, really--and settled into lives of boredom and routine.  While I can't say I thought all the actions of the young and not-so-young characters here were necessarily smart or well-thought-out, there was never a moment that I didn't understand what they were thinking.   <br /> <br />Much has been written about Sonny, Duane, Sam the Lion, and the other menfolk here, but I also thought McMurtry did an especially good job of developing all four of the main female characters here--especially Lois, and secondly Jacy--both of whom had spirit and passion much too large for the time and place of their lives.  I liked these women in spite of myself! I will now have to read Texasville to find out what happens to them and everyone else. <br /> <br />I recommend this to anyone who enjoys character studies or stories about small-town living (though you might enjoy this more if you left the small town like I did).   <br /> <br />Very well-written.  This did whet my appetite for more of Larry's work!	2004-11-04
US	50641439	R2XFAAWX3HQ7N4	1578601134	509744843	Six of One, Half Dozen of Another: Twelve Stories About Family, Indiana Kidhood and Other Goofy Stuff	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Back home in Indiana with the Mackenzie clan. . .	For those of us who followed Mike's columns and commentary in the Indianapolis daily papers over the last decade or so, this book brings him back full circle to writing about what he knows (and loves) the best--his wild, crazy, and wonderful family.  He gives us twelve great chapters here, each devoted to a family member or family custom such as Christmas or Thanksgiving. While he mentions so many of our regional influences (including a certain basketball coach now in the Lone Star State), I think that anyone who grew up a. during the 50s and 60s; b. as part of a large immediate and extended family; c.  anywhere in the middle of the country; will relate to Mike's stories. <br />I do need to warn you though:  if you've seen \\"My Big Fat Greek Wedding\\" and thought Nia's family of 27 first cousins was huge--well, just hold on.  The MacKenzie clan (Mike's mom's family) boasted 50!!  And like Nia's family, there were some real characters amongst the MacKenzies as well. <br />Each of his three siblings gets a chapter, as does his mom.  He often wrote about his brother, mom and older sister in his weekly columns for the Indianapolis Star, and this book gives you their \\"backstories.\\"  Mike's father was also a newspaper reporter for the Indianapolis papers, but Mike never wrote much about him except for one column when the Indianapolis News ceased publication.  He also gets a chapter here.  While most of the time Mike's writing makes me laugh out loud, this chapter made me cry.  <br />And to me, that's the true worth of Mike.  He can touch your heart through his humor--and through his sincerity as well.  If you'd like to read more of his commentary, he has a column on his website.  No, I don't work for him and I'm not related to him.  But I think he's in a class with Dave Barry and Mitch Albom.  If you like their work, check his out. <br />Enjoy this book and pass it on to your own cousins at your next family reunion.	2003-04-14
US	50641439	RP9RJUR3BS5HZ	0373709765	327409243	Count on Me (Harlequin Superromance No. 976)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Good on its own, but weakest entry in Bayview trilogy	Kathy Shay is a fabulous writer, and wonderful person.  She's done another great job here, giving us a good story of two people who have to overcome real obstacles on the way to finding love together.  The prologue was a real heart-wrencher, and of course, hooked me for the rest.  The other reviewers here have summarized the story, so I won't repeat the plot here.<br />Let me say that if you judge this book strictly on its own, it's definitely a good book--great characterization, you feel like you're inside the characters' heads, and no one sets a scene better than Kathy does--whether it's the classroom, the medical clinic, or the characters' homes.  I rooted for Zoe all the way through--she finally learned to stand up for herself, risks and all.  <br />However. . .compared to the first two books in the Bayview High School series, Cop of the Year, and Because It's Christmas, this one falls a little short for me.  I've also read her Firefighter series, &quot;Christmas Legacy&quot;, and the two out from her Serenity House series, and all of them were so good that I would keep them on the nightstand, and re-read them again and again.  &quot;Count on Me&quot; did not grab me that way.  It may have been the infidelity issue, or maybe the unbelievable behavior of the high school girls that turned me off with this one.  <BR>Just one woman's opinion.  This one is worth finding if you like the author as much as I do. . .or if you haven't read Harlequins since you were a kid and want to see that yes, they've grown up with you.  Enjoy. . .	2002-12-06
US	50641439	R12G1KVXPD0AQB	0671619314	763833725	Seventeenth Summer	Books	5	23	23	N	N	To read. . .and to pass on to your daughter. . .	I discovered this book after reading an excerpt in one of those teenager-in-love anthologies that Scholastic books used to market in their catalogs. Like many others here, I re-read this one every summer, and have for close to three decades (yikes!) Angie and Jack were easy to relate to--she's a college-bound girl from a middle-class background, he was the star basketball player whose family owns the town bakery. Angie been something of an outsider in town, having attended a private girls-only prep school. Jack discovers her almost by accident one day when he blows the paper from his straw out of his booth at the drugstore, and looks over to see where it landed.  From there, it's just a matter of time until they're a couple.  There is nothing cliched about this book, even though it has many of the common elements we associate with teenagers in love. It's rounded out by scenes of Angie's family life and her plans for college even though she's falling deeper in love with Jack and he with her.<br />One caution:  this book gets reprinted and re-released periodically with newer contemporary covers.  You need to be aware that it is definitely not set in contemporary times,  though. There are many references to  society and mores of its setting--Wisconsin in the 30s--but the feel and experience of first love transcends everything.  I think this one's a classic and a keeper. This is the only fiction book besides Gone with the Wind that I've kept from my own adolesence.  Someday it will be my daughter's.  On June 21, 2012, when she turns 17, this will be my gift to her.	2002-06-18
US	50641439	R1MFA7NOE2DGJM	0671619314	763833725	Seventeenth Summer	Books	5	4	4	N	N	To read. . .and to pass on to your daughter. . .	I discovered this book after reading an excerpt in one of those teenager-in-love anthologies that Scholastic books used to market in their catalogs. Like many others here, I re-read this one every summer, and have for close to three decades (yikes!) Angie and Jack were easy to relate to--she's a college-bound girl from a middle-class background, he was the star basketball player whose family owns the town bakery. Angie been something of an outsider in town, having attended a private girls-only prep school. Jack discovers her almost by accident one day when he blows the paper from his straw out of his booth at the drugstore, and looks over to see where it landed.  From there, it's just a matter of time until they're a couple.  There is nothing cliched about this book, even though it has many of the common elements we associate with teenagers in love. It's rounded out by scenes of Angie's family life and her plans for college even though she's falling deeper in love with Jack and he with her.<br />One caution:  this book gets reprinted and re-released periodically with newer contemporary covers.  You need to be aware that it is definitely not set in contemporary times,  though. There are many references to  society and mores of its setting--Wisconsin in the 30s--but the feel and experience of first love transcends everything.  I think this one's a classic and a keeper. This is the only fiction book besides Gone with the Wind that I've kept from my own adolesence.  Someday it will be my daughter's.  On June 21, 2012, when she turns 17, this will be my gift to her.	2002-06-18
US	50641439	R1YKK8KHUQ3BUB	0891099832	352089601	Discover Your Destiny	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Must reading for those wanting to do more with their lives.	I have to agree with Marc from Pennsylvania below.  This is one of the most important books ever written for Christians--it deserves a much wider reputation than it has thus far.<br />In 1997, I turned 40.  My father had just lost his final battle with cancer, and I was questioning my career direction.  I'd read Kathy Peel's &quot;Do Plastic Surgeons Take Visa?&quot;  and loved how she combined humor with practical suggestions for coping with everyday life--and I especially loved her story about how she went from being a housewife to a woman with a speaking and writing ministry.  That story is repeated in &quot;Discover Your Destiny&quot; and it alone would be worth the price of the book.  But there's MUCH more.  Chapter by chapter, they talk about everything from discovering your dreams and passions, to preparing yourself physically, spiritually, and practically to embark on your next step.  There are three great lists that I used not only with myself, but now with my students:  &quot;Spotting a Dream from God,&quot; &quot;Preparing for Your Dream (this one is great--very practical and powerful at the same time) and the Growth Op for discovering what you're passionate about (For example, what issues make you pound the table and say, &quot;Someone's got to do something about this?&quot;)<br />It was through doing the work in this book that I realized what was missing in my own everyday work--the career counseling component.  These last five years I've attended professional meetings, bought books, gone out of my way to work on things related to what I wanted to do.  And. . .oh, yes. . .I prayed.  OFTEN.  It took time. . .but when I finally helped create a position last year that combined academic advising with career counseling, it was the RIGHT time.  I was truly ready to do the work.  Even a year ago, I wouldn't have been ready.<br />This WORKS.  Though I cannot proselytize on the job, I can certainly use the principles outlined by the Peels as the foundation for how I live and how I help others do what their book did for me.  <br />This one is another one of my desert island books.  Five stars are NOT enough!	2002-04-15
US	50641439	RUELMYQ9XUEOL	0874775930	497323502	Making Music for the Joy Of It	Books	5	63	65	N	Y	Life-changing for adult beginners AND veteran musicians	I've had this book for 10 years, and am just now reviewing it, partly because I feel that nothing I write will do it true justice.  I do, however, want to add to the great comments here and to promote what Stephanie Judy has done.  This book deserves about 5 million stars, if you ask me. <br />Before I talk about my own musical experience, I want to say something to those who had bad early experiences with music (usually at the hands of bad music TEACHERS).  Many of us who were not natural athletes can remember the humiliation of being picked last for the team and then being assigned to the outfield because we weren't good enough for the real action on the diamond.  What I didn't realize until reading this book is that there are many folks that experienced similar humiliation when it came to music--maybe being told to sing softer or worse yet, being told to just lip-sync.  Now I know what to say to people who tell me, &quot;I'd love to learn to sing or play and wish I'd taken lessons as a child.&quot;  I ask them to share their experience with me, and then encourage them to get their hands on &quot;Making Music for the Joy of It.&quot; If you are one of those folks who always wanted to &quot;do something&quot; with music--and one of your regrets in life is that you let an early experience such as that discourage you from ever trying again until now, don't live with that regret a minute longer. Hit the &quot;purchase&quot; button right now. (Gee, doesn't this sound like an infomercial??) Read the first few chapters and see if you're not encouraged to go for it again.  I second the reviewer who said this is a must for teachers of adult students.  In fact, they should buy copies for those students as a gift and a reference.  <br />My own musical life has been a relatively easy one.  I was a pretty good singer as a child and have played the piano for nearly 35 years.  While I do have to practice and work at it to stay really good, it still feels very natural to me.  I don't think of a house as being a home without a musical instrument in it.  But in 1992, I was in a period of my life where I had spent several years doing music for &quot;other people&quot; more than myself--productions at church, playing for weddings, and most of the time it was stuff that other people picked out, not me--enjoying it less, and, not coincidentally, suffering from some aches and pains in the process.  I was at a crossroads--not wanting to continue with music unless I could get some satisfaction out of it again.  Call it God or serendipity, but at the low point of that time, I ran across this book, bought it, and my whole attitude about music became what it was when I was a child--pure fun and joy again.  The suggestions on practicing, technique, improvisation, and especially the section on ensemble playing and dealing with the inevitable ego and morale issues therein really hit me.  That whole concept of &quot;release&quot; and separating making music from &quot;performance&quot; was almost revolutionary--one I still use now when I'm playing songs of my own choosing, and as much as possible with music my director assigns me. I recently revisited them when I found myself drifting into feeling like I was just a pair of hands for a couple of groups I was accompanying.  This summer, I've spoken up about what I need in order to continue working with them, keeping in mind what I'd read in the book, and things are much better. While I hope to take a partial break from music &quot;for others&quot; this fall, the music that I do contribute to my church will be much better and I think much more appreciated. <br />Adding to the excellent work she's done with the narrative is an extensive bibliography and thorough crediting of her sources when she mentions a technique, idea, or concept that was not hers originally.  She makes some of the more scholarly work on musicology accessible and user-friendly.  And the quotes are real gems--nothing but encouragement and hope, with a little humor thrown in now and then.<br />In short, this is one of the ten books I'd take to a desert island.  Even if I were taking a break from music for a season, I would still want this book close by to ponder on for the time I returned to civilization and my piano.<br />Buy it now.  You won't be sorry. . .	2001-07-10
US	50641439	R3I1LWSFTA34J3	037370948X	317478718	A Christmas Legacy (Harlequin Superromance No. 948)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The capstone--and standout--of Riverbend Series	I first bought this book strictly because Kathryn Shay was the author, having stumbled onto an aunt's copy of &quot;Cop of the Year&quot; and getting hooked on her work from there.  She's absolutely outdone herself in this one.  I bought it at Thanksgiving when it first came out, read it over Thanksgiving break, and then re-read it at bedtime the entire month of December.  Riverbend was a place I didn't want to leave--and it wasn't just because of Jay and Kate, either.  Kathryn did such a masterful job weaving the characters from the first four Riverbend books back into &quot;Christmas Legacy,&quot; I felt just as at home with them as I did with the Steele family.  So after Christmas, I came here to amazon.com and bought the first four books in the series, which I have reviewed also.  (In case you missed them, they are:  Birthright, That Summer Thing, Homecoming, and Last-Minute Marriage)<br />Jay has been gone from Riverbend, Indiana for 15 years.  He left abruptly following a bitter betrayal that he's never, ever talked about with anyone else. His departure broke his aunts' hearts--they'd help his dad raise him after his mom's death from breast cancer--and deep down, his own, too.  As a younger man, he'd dreamed of marrying a Riverbend girl and having a whole houseful of children.  But in his years away from home, he buried that dream and channeled his energies into becoming the perfect yuppie clear down to his Rolex watch. He's selfish, too.  His only reason to come back to Riverbend now is that he's been left some lucrative property and a thriving bookstore, and to claim it, he has to move back there for two months and work in the bookstore with Kate McMann--who will get the inheritance if he doesn't fulfill the terms of the will. Jay has no idea why Kate stands to inherit--he figures she was just a smooth operator who was after Jay's dad's money.  So he decides to keep his true identity a secret and spy on her.  What he doesn't realize as he's doing it is thathe's falling in love with her, and that her little girls have already found their way into his heart. <br />That's not all he finds in Riverbend.  Many of the old River Rats (his group of friends from high school) either stayed there or have also moved back, and he has some issues to work out with them, too.  He also hurt them deeply when he left Riverbend without a backward look, and some of them are worried about what will happen to Kate if he sells the farmhouse and bookstore from underneath her.  Jay has some tough decisions to make. Through all of this, he realizes that he doesn't want New York anymore, but instead a second chance at happiness in his hometown.  He still wants to be the smalltown guy with a wife and kids--and there's only one woman he wants for the job. It's just a matter of whether or not he can find closure from the last fifteen years before it's too late.<br />There are fun trips to Chicago, a wedding between two characters from one of the previous books, the birth of a baby to another couple, some down-home humor from Jay's aunts, great &quot;love scenes&quot; and a beautifully written epilogue that ties together the characters from the series--all of whom received special bequests from Abraham Steele, who is not a &quot;living&quot; character in these books, but whose presence is felt throughout the series, especially in this installment. <br />The beauty of how Kathryn Shay writes is that she took someone as initially unsympathetic as Jay and got me to care deeply for him.  In fact, I even like Mallory--Jay's New York girlfriend--and Nick and Paul, the two other guys who were interested in Kate. I wanted them to have happy endings, too.  I can see it now. . .maybe the publishers could give us another installment where Mallory comes back to Riverbend and becomes half of a power couple with Nick or Paul:)  <br />But even if this really is the last we see of Riverbend, I hope Kathryn Shay keeps 'em coming.  She's the best writer in the genre!	2001-05-29
US	50641439	RM05BCSQZLRE1	0373709307	399260381	That Summer Thing: Welcome to Riverbend (Harlequin Superromance No. 930)	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Riverbend, Part Deux	Charlie and Beth Callahan were high school sweethearts in Riverbend, Indiana.  They rushed into marriage when their &quot;summer thing&quot; resulted in a pregnancy.  Following Beth's miscarriage, they split up and she left Riverbend for college while Charlie stayed in town with his own business.  <br />Now she's home again for a visit--and to sell her half of a houseboat that deceased town pillar Abraham Steele left to her and Charlie.  She doesn't see Riverbend as a place she's going to move back to on a permanent basis.  But Charlie's young ward, Nathan, finds his way into her heart--and she discovers that Charlie's still there, too.  They were way too young the first time they were together, but what about now?<br />Well, folks, this IS a Harlequin Romance.  Need I tell you?<br />But like the first book in this series (Birthright), there are some twists, turns, squabbles, and unresolved things along the way.  The scene where Charlie and Beth finally get down to the bottom of why their teen marriage failed left me with tears in my eyes, as did the final scene between Beth and Lucy (Charlie's sister, who had a falling-out with Beth when the latter broke up with Charlie).  Like nearly all the books in the Riverbend series, this one features a teenager or child as a major character.  It's delightful to read that in many cases, they're the ones who bring out--or bring back--the love between the lead characters. <br />Riverbend is just like the town I grew up in, and even though I now live in a much larger city, it's fun to read about the small-town community.  This is a good continuation of an excellent series.  Enjoy. . .	2001-05-29
US	50641439	R3RBR9X3WH0UXQ	0373709420	824780004	The Last-Minute Marriage: Welcome to Riverbend (Harlequin Superromance No. 942)	Books	3	3	3	N	Y	The romance didn't ring as true here. . .	I agree with Roseweb on this one.  Marisa Carroll did a great job of continuing the Riverbend setting and the peripheral characters, but the sparks didn't seem to fly between Mitch and Tessa the way they did with the other couples in the other books. Also, while I realize that these books are entertainment and not necessarily life as it really is, I still found the characters a little bit unbelievable.  Maybe men who fall in love with pregnant women really DO act this way, and maybe single pregnant women do too.  But up until the last chapter, I really had trouble believing that Mitch loved Tessa all that much. He didn't really try to fight for her--just kind of left it up to her what she wanted to do and who she was going to have a &quot;last-minute marriage&quot; with.  In fact, his son Sam seemed more proactive, and the interplay between him and Tessa was actually more moving in places than that between the adults. <br />But the last chapter made up for a lot.  The baby's birth was very moving, and Tessa did come to her senses after all.<br />What kept me interested in this book is that I'd read &quot;A Christmas Legacy&quot; first, and knew there was some overlap in events between the two books.  I was curious to see how the events would play out without giving anything away.  That part was masterfully done. . .but in the baby shower scene you do get a very strong hint about who the next Riverbend story will be about. . .and you have to be paying attention to catch who the man is.  Pick this book up and see if you can figure it out:)	2001-05-29
US	50641439	RG2IYZOROPGJW	0373709374	49641834	Homecoming (Welcome to Riverbend / Harlequin Superromance, No. 937)	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Absolutely superb. . .	. . .Tom Baines is a nephew of Abraham Steele, a cousin to Jacob Steele, and doesn't know it yet, but is also a cousin to someone he could not stand when he visited Riverbend, Indiana, as a teenager.  In the opening of the book, Tom's back in Indiana after a beloved colleague is brutally killed in a war zone they were covering for a news service. In the process of becoming a hotshot, Pulitzer-prize-winning international journalist, Tom had lost touch with his family, his early dreams, and his heart.  Uncle Abraham, who recently died, left him a farmhouse in Riverbend, and he's there hiding out from the world when Lynn Kendall crosses his path.  She's the (relatively) new pastor of one of the churches in town where Tom's aunts Ruth and Rachel attend faithfully, and passionately involved in starting Meacham House, an teen outreach club for kids who are growing up without much guidance or encouragement anywhere else in their lives.  Lynn and Tom are very attracted to one another, but he has a lot of emotional baggage, and she, of course, is a minister, with all the heavy demands, church politics, etc. that come with THAT role.  <br />This installment in the Riverbend series is as real and readable as the first two were--especially Birthright, where a lead character struggled to deal with the issue of his parentage and its implications.  Here, Tom is trying to reach out to his own kids after years of neglecting them for his career, while at the same time coming to terms with his own gifts and passions, AND helping Lynn launch Meacham House successfully, AND, because she's a minister, control his growing attraction to her. Whew, that's a boatload:)<br />This book hails back to the old Harlequins of the 1960s in that the main characters do not sleep together.  Much of that is probably due to Lynn's vocation and her commitment to it.  I would love to have seen this book end with their getting married and having a glorious wedding night, but oh, well.  This was only the third book in the series. . .it could happen in a later installment:)  <br />I loved Meacham House and the kids who went there.  They were beautifully characterized and it's very obvious that Laura Abbot loves teenagers and understands how they think and why.  I finished this book thinking about what a great cause Meacham House would be to support--and then I realized, &quot;it's a fictional place.&quot;  But if I find a real-life version of it, you'd better believe I'll find a way to support it!	2001-05-29
US	50641439	RUUX6Z3HMS696	0310219205	766422843	What Every Mom Needs	Books	5	15	15	N	Y	What Every Mom Needs. . .is this book. . .	. . .Author Deborah Lewis once said that while the early years of your children's lives go by quicker than you think, there are some individual days that seem to go on forever.  For those days and those times, this book is just what you need. It's very, very easy to read--you can usually get through a chapter in just a few minutes after your child is finally down for the night, or just before you finally get to bed yourself. This is usually the one I've reached for after a day with my daughter where one or both of us were not as noble or Christlike toward one another as we maybe should be.  And I always come away with something that I try out to make tomorrow better. It deals in very plain, simple prose with how tough it can be to get your own needs met in the midst of diapers, messy floors, and emergencies. But then it takes things one step further.  You won't find any &quot;magazine article perfect&quot; advice here--just simple-but-effective steps you can take toward keeping your dreams alive, finding the support you need to go on, managing the load, and feeling good about your choice to become a mother.  You will not feel talked down to here--in fact, you'll say, &quot;oh, man, that's JUST how I feel right now&quot; and &quot;I'm NOT the only woman who feels this way.&quot;  And the ideas for taking action are great--they realize that these are not the years to just totally make over your life, but that, just as learning to walk is a cumulative process for your kids, little steps toward your own self-improvement really do add up. <br />Two other things that made have made this book a real winner as far as I'm concerned:  First of all, Elisa and Carol give very generous credit to their sources, including an appendix with footnotes, and a &quot;for further reading&quot; list at the end of each chapter. What I especially liked about this was that they did not limit their research to Christian authors and sources.  Thanks to them, I rediscovered Barbara Sher's book&quot;Wishcraft&quot; and as a result of digging through HER book, have more or less rekindled some dreams of my own.  So, I feel as if I owe Elisa and Carol as much a debt of gratitude as I do Barbara.  Isn't that cool? And secondly, they emphasize very strongly that all moms need to look out for each other--none of this &quot;mommy war&quot; stuff between women who work outside the home and women who are spending a season at home. <br />And I do have to agree with the other reviewer about this book making a great shower gift. I heartily recommend that this be given to a new or expectant mom, along with a gift certificate for a free night of babysitting. You'll definitely get that mom's prize for best present!	2001-05-09
US	50641439	R38THVH7Y6SILC	0446677450	156348512	Rich Dad, Poor Dad: What the Rich Teach Their Kids About Money--That the Poor and Middle Class Do Not!	Books	4	16	19	N	Y	Good advice that could have used a good editor. . .	. . .No doubt about it, Robert Kiyosaki is a masterful storyteller.  I imagine when he talks in person to audiences, they are spellbound.  However, on paper, his long, rambling tales needed more than a little pruning. I found myself skipping ahead and wondering, &quot;well, when ARE we going to find out what the rich know that I don't know?&quot; (Frankly, I thought rich dad was a bit of a jerk and that poor dad, in the long run, probably made more lasting contributions to society through his work in education--but that's another topic for another time)<br />And what do they know? Well, what I got out of this was:  <br />--a house is not an &quot;asset&quot; (but real estate is?  Oh, I get it. . .Mr. Kiyosaki owns real estate where he can CHARGE RENT! Methinks his advice is just a wee bit tainted there. . .)<br />--a car is a &quot;toy&quot; (well, actually, I drive a Saturn, not a Mercedes like Mrs. K does--and what was the point of telling that if not to brag?--and I pretty much need it to see to my business and that of my family's).  I do disagree with him there. . .until we all get rich like they are, our cars are TOOLS, not toys, and I would have felt less condescended to had he said something like, &quot;choose wisely and well the tools you need to carry on your business.&quot;  <br />--making money is a synergy of accounting, investing, marketing, and law.  Yes, it is. . .and I absolutely agree with him that this is the stuff we should be teaching kids in school instead of &quot;new math&quot; or how to dissect a frog.<br />--work for yourself, not for someone else.  When you see someone like Bill Gates or Donald Trump get out there and strike it rich through work, opportunity and an irresistable product, it's hard to argue with that statement.  As a career counselor by profession, though, I agree with one of the other reviewers who said that not everyone is temperamentally suited to own a business, and that money is certainly not everything.  Also, yet another reviewer said that without the workers that manufacture and produce and build whatever is being sold, the business owner has nothing to put out there.  Not everyone can be king of the hill or cock of the walk.  <br />I did, however, find his advice to a newspaper reporter/budding author to be sound, and something immediately applicable to my own situation:  study writing, but also take courses or seminars to build up a background in sales, marketing, advertising copywriting, and public relations.  I took notes on that whole chapter, and it was worth the price of the book.<br />Once I did that, though, I sold my copy of the book.  My advice to you, the reader, is to borrow it, take good notes, and then give it back to the library or the friend who loaned it to you.  After all, they don't charge interest;)	2001-02-06
US	50641439	R3C7ICPIB4YPSY	0060256656	945451465	The Giving Tree	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A lot more to this one than meets the eye. . .	. . .I've read through many of the reviews here, and find that this book is one you either love or hate.  It's also interesting how many different interpretations there are of what Shel Sileverstein put together here.  Some see it as an environmental cautionary tale, others an allegory of female oppression at the hands of a selfish male, and still others see it as a beautiful parable of unconditional love. I see it as a simple-yet-profound combination of all those things.  <br />But to be honest, I find it a tough book to classify, review, or pigeonhole. Nothing I say can really capture its essence.  You have to read it for yourself and draw your own conclusions. In our house, I read this to my daughter probably once a month. (She got it as a present from one of my friends, who says it's one of HER favorite books) She hasn't asked &quot;what does this mean?&quot; just yet.  But at age 5, she is just now discovering that boys and girls are really different, and that sometimes those differences are not easy to work through. And I have the feeling that as she goes through the stages of her own growing up and growing away, she will interpret the story differently if she reads it at different points in her life journey.  And I probably will, too. Don't let the simplicity of the drawings or the words fool you. This is probably one of the most thought-provoking books a child--or even a midlife adult--could grow up with.  It will no doubt be a classic of our time.	2001-01-26
US	50641439	R3CM4Q3MR46W91	0394800303	961193691	Dr. Seuss's ABC  (Beginner Books, I Can Read It All By Myself)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	We're a 2nd-generation Dr. Suess family. . .	. . .the other reviewers have described this one very well, so I'll just add my random thoughts about it.  I read somewhere once that the best way to read this edition of Dr. Suess' ABC book was to sing it aloud to the tune of the &quot;ABC Song&quot; (the same melody as &quot;Twinkle, Twinkle Little Star&quot;).  That usually results in hysterics around our house--mainly because Mom can't sing very well and stumbles over &quot;Sammy sipped six sodas and got sick sick sick.&quot;  We got the &quot;Board Book&quot; edition when our daughter was 18 months old and read it to her nearly every night.  When she got this edition as a present, she insisted on reciting the alphabet every time we reached a page that recapped the letters the book had already gone through.  And she almost always comments on the ways this one differs from the &quot;baby version.&quot; <br />Reading Dr. Suess was something I did as a child, and this book was the best tool for helping my daughter learn her alphabet at an early age.  You never outgrow Dr. Suess, in my humble opinion!	2001-01-26
US	50641439	R1RXAYO6KSIAAM	0613004973	884777641	The Empty Pot (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	5	49	51	N	N	Delightful for the eyes as well as the mind. . .	The artwork in this book is among the most exquisite I've ever seen in a children's book--or for that matter, in ANY book.  Whatever the artist was paid, it wasn't enough!  Everything--from the 50 or so little boys and girls to their flowers to the kimonos they wore for the presentation to the Emperor--was done in such minute detail, and no duplication in any of it.  Each child had a personality and style all their own.  Even if your child is a newborn or an infant, this book is worth getting just so the two of you can be dazzled by the visuals.<br />And the story!--no matter what your religion, creed, or background, the message is timeless.  Ping's family and friends all know what a green thumb he has, and you'd think he'd be a shoo-in for Emperor when the seeds are distributed. The flowers DO decide who the next Emperor is. . .but not in the way you might think.  There are two very wise men who figure prominently in this story:  the Emperor and Ping's father, who tells Ping, &quot;your best is good enough to present to the Emperor.&quot; And the unspoken message there is, &quot;I'm proud of you, son, and I believe in you.&quot;  Three cheers for Ping!	2001-01-25
US	50641439	R1NWFRBYCQZTNF	0140501738	404665928	Corduroy	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Five paws. . .uh, stars, for this one. . .	Those elegant downtown department stores that close at 6pm are getting fewer and far between, but this book takes you back to a time when a visit to one could fulfill a child's most fervent wish or dream.  Corduroy is sitting on the shelf in the toy department when Lisa spots him and, of course, wants her mom to buy him.  Her mother says no, because he's missing a button from his suspenders.  Well, Corduroy goes looking for the missing button that night, thinking that's why he hasn't been picked to go home with someone yet.<br />This story is almost a primitive variation on &quot;Toy Story,&quot;  where the toys come to a life of their own when humans aren't around. . .and of course, like Woody, Buzz, and even the Misfit Toys from &quot;Rudolph,&quot; Corduroy knows that his purpose in life is to love and be loved by a child.  If your child watches the &quot;Corduroy&quot; shorts on PBS, get this book and let him or her see how he first found a home. I hate to say it, but I nearly always cry when I get to the last two pages.  I just love happy endings:)	2001-01-24
US	50641439	R1BWSUIVUGORXD	0140503528	474939407	A Pocket for Corduroy	Books	5	12	12	N	N	More adventures with Lisa's very own bear. . .	In this installment of Corduroy's adventures with Lisa, we see that some time has passed since she first brought him home from the department store.  She's taller, wearing her hair a little straighter, and her mom looks like she had a makeover, too.  Corduroy, however, is wearing the same green overalls he did in the first book and has managed to keep both buttons on this time.  Early on in the book, however, Corduroy decides he needs a pocket, and in the search for one gets separated from Lisa and her mom while they are in the laundromat.  They leave without him, setting him up for a meeting with a friendly stranger who washes his overalls for him, as well as encounters with such laundromat staples as powder detergent and pushcarts. <br />As in the first book, Lisa comes back for him the next day, and once again her needle and thread come to the rescue. <br />This book and &quot;Corduroy&quot; are the only two Corduroy books my daughter and I have read.  I wonder if there are others, and what kind of sartorial splendor Corduroy will be arrayed in next if the trend continued!	2001-01-24
US	50641439	R3RVVLSRENNG70	0966446712	981747243	The Freezer Cooking Manual from 30 Day Gourmet : A Month of Meals Made Easy	Books	5	20	20	N	N	I wish we had a system like this for laundry. . .	This book and this cooking method are absolute musts for busy times--like tax season for accountants, December for every woman in America, or cooking ahead for the two weeks of vacation you're taking either at home or at the beach condo.  I don't cook this way all the time--but I will tell you that the months I do go much more smoothly than the other ones.  I began bulk cooking using &quot;Once-A-Month Cooking&quot; and still use some of those recipes.  But Tara and Nanci have taken the concept about six steps further.  For starters,  the math is already done for you if you want to double, triple, etc. the recipe.   You can make a little or a lot, depending on your family size (or how much your family likes a certain recipe). And they DO  list a lot of vegetarian and low-fat, low-calorie substitutions in many of their recipes.  You can usually find those nearly the bottom of the recipe page. I also love the master mixes for the meats and cookies.  The meatball/meat loaf one is out of this world. <br />You need to know I am not totally objective where these ladies are concerned.  I've gone to church with them for more than eight years.  They are two of the funniest, most down-to-earth, approachable women you'll ever meet.   And what they have here works for real women with kids, pets, husbands, jobs, and a house to clean.  If someone ever comes up with a system to revolutionize housework the way this book does for cooking, life as we know it will be much sweeter indeed:)<br />Buy it, use it. . .and enjoy the results. . .	2001-01-18
US	50641439	R8KQO8BCNWOD9	0373709242	47277889	Birthright (Welcome to Riverbend / Harlequin Superromance, No. 924)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Romance, inspiration, and a bit of a mystery, too. . .	After reading &quot;A Christmas Legacy&quot; (which I bought solely because Kathryn Shay was the author), I was so intrigued by all the characters therein that I've now bought the other four books in the series and will be reading (and reviewing) them in order. Since I grew up in a small town and moved away from it 20 years ago, and now live near Indianapolis, I'm also reading these books for the authors' treatment of both our state and hometown folks.  So far, they're doing great!<br /> Both Lily Bennett and Aaron Mazerik left Riverbend after high school graduation fifteen or so years ago--she to go to college and marry a wealthy Bostonian; he to just get out of the town where he was &quot;someone's b-------d&quot; and seemingly doomed to self-destruct. He landed in Indianapolis after college, and found his niche helping kids who are just like he was as a teenager.  Now they've come home, only this time, he's gotten his act together and she is completely shattered following the death of her husband (though not for the reasons you might think).  Suddenly, his old dream of having someone classy and &quot;in&quot; like her and her old dream of having a passionate partner like him resurface.  <br />In addition to the great love scenes (as we used to call them), it's wonderful to meet the teacher that helped turn Aaron around eventually and for Aaron to tell him, &quot;here's what you did that made the difference for me.&quot; (Every teacher should hear that at least once from a student) Also, in the final chapter or two, the mystery of Aaron's father's identity is revealed after years of guessing on Aaron's part and stalling on his mom's part.  Aaron's mother, by the way, is a piece of work.  I'm still trying to figure out what makes that woman do the things she does:)<br />Aaron's journey here was more fascinating to me than Lily's, for some reason, but I think it's because he's also featured very prominently in &quot;Christmas Legacy&quot;, so I &quot;know&quot; himbetter from having read that book first.  Or maybe, like Lily, I just have a soft spot for the underdog.  You probably will, too, once you've read this series:)	2001-01-17
US	50641439	R2GVVFYF7RM7SN	0373708157	389753997	Because It's Christmas: Love That Man (Harlequin Superromance, 815)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Balm for burned-out teachers, principals, and other &quot;helpers	Burn-out hits everyone in a &quot;helping&quot; profession at one time or another.  It can be mild or severe.  For Seth Taylor (the principal and mentor to Cassie Smith in Shay's book &quot;Cop of the Year&quot;), it's a combination of things.  Being a principal is not easy, and Bayview High School students suffer from the same garden-variety social ills that most suburban schools do.  He's haunted by the mistakes he made with two students. One of them he didn't crack down on hard enough, and the other he maybe have been too hard on.  It doesn't help that the latter student was the son of the local newspaper editor/publisher, who has looked under every stone and twig for reasons to discredit Seth's standing in the community and get him fired. Up until now, though, Seth has hung in there and implemented some innovative programs that are just now yielding good results for students.  But the newspaper won't give him a break.  <br />When Lacey Cartwright--the publisher's granddaughter--puts her own dynamic career on hold to come help her grandfather run the paper--she is challenged by Seth and her old friend Cassie to look at the &quot;rest of the story,&quot; to quote Paul Harvey.  What she discovers about the school and the man who keeps it running could change her life forever.<br />Like &quot;Cop of the Year,&quot; this is more than just another romance.  It's a reminder that teachers and newspaper reporters touch lives in ways that they may never know about, and they do make a difference.  This one also has inspired me to look for more ways to connect with the university students I teach, and to pass on good things I hear about my colleagues to them, so they can keep fighting the good fight another day, week, or year.  <br />Seth is the best kind of sexy man there is--responsible, a good father, and one who cares about the people around him.  The testimonial dinner--like the farewell party in &quot;Cop of the Year&quot;--had me in tears.  I had to keep reminding myself, &quot;this is fiction.&quot;  Kathryn Shay is one heck of a writer!<br />This is a good one to read in December, when the semester is winding down at school and you're burned out with classes and just want to get to the celebrating and relaxing.  Enjoy it. . .	2000-12-07
US	50641439	RM1GI0EAB0DGD	0671897527	986759686	Digging Up Momma	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Sam's mom's story more than Sam's. . .	. . .after believing her mom to be dead all these years, Sam goes off on a wild hare to find her over the objections of people at home who love her and believe she's just on a wild goose chase.  What she finds in New Mexico is, indeed, her real mother, and their reunion is all too brief before Mom dies again.  This time, for real, and for good. It's double the grief and now double trouble. Samantha has to figure out why she's lost her mother twice, before someone decides that she, too, must die.  <br />I dropped a star from this one mainly because the plot resolutions relied 'way too much on implausible things.  The &quot;dieu ex machina&quot; that was just one of the many flaws with &quot;I Miss My Man but My Aim is Getting Better&quot; also hurts this book.  There was one loose thread from &quot;He Was Her Man&quot; that was finally tied up here, too, though the character's entry was extremely contrived and convoluted. <br />Frankly, I think Sarah Shankman has done all she can do with the Samantha Adams character, and I hope she will retire her, at least for awhile.  Better to leave 'em wanting more. . .	2000-11-06
US	50641439	RGTVHH00EWUB1	0671775634	693899847	He Was Her Man (A Samantha Adams Mystery)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Hot-footin' it to Hot Springs. . .	. . .I agree with previous reviewer.  Sam was NOT dumped.  She was scared to make a commitment and Harry decided to move on after she told him she couldn't commit.  Did she expect him to just stick around like a puppy dog until SHE decides when and if she can be serious about him?  <br />There is plenty for her to see and do, with or without Harry.  A big fancy wedding to attend, a murder to solve, a man with shady connections to flirt with, and, no doubt, some Pepsi to drink.  Some of it gets wrapped up this time. . .but there's a &quot;cliff-hanger&quot; ending and as it turns out, Sarah Shankman made her fans wait twice as long as usual for the next book in the series while she worked on and released &quot;I Miss My Man But My Aim Is Getting Better,&quot; wherein the best part of the book was the title.  Once you've finished &quot;He Was Her Man&quot; just skip &quot;I Miss My Man&quot; and go straight to &quot;Digging Up Momma.&quot;	2000-11-06
US	50641439	R1FZYMWTSQV3XA	0440235596	870989999	Tara Road (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	As irresistable as a big bag of Cracker Jacks. . .	. . .this is my first Maeve Binchy novel.  I picked it up on impulse to read one night when I had to wait someplace for 90 minutes and had nothing else to do.  And was hooked in the first few pages, when Danny Boy storms into the Dublin, Ireland real estate office where Ria is working.  The first two-thirds of the book deal with their lives and those of their friends and associates during the go-go 1980s, when divorce finally was legally permitted in Ireland, and the country seems to have been in a real-estate, yuppie mindset not unlike that of what was going on in the USA at that time.  In fact, Ria and Danny could just as easily have been American, judging by their fever to fix up the Tara Road &quot;money pit&quot; and scout out auctions for the perfect pieces of furniture to put in it.  Over the years, as they have children, parties, and material success, their friends and neighbors run in and out of there like it's Grand Central Station.  The story just kind of coasts there for awhile, and then when Marilyn calls Ria from the United States with an offer she can't refuse right now, things truly get interesting again.  What these ladies do in one another's houses changes everyone around them--and themselves, too.  I found myself saying, &quot;NO, NO--don't you DO that!&quot; to Ria a time or two, and then, &quot;Oh, yes, take that in your pipe and smoke it,&quot; when two characters were basically blackmailed into doing the right thing by two very clever women who, like Ria, are pros at making lists.  Great fun!  I dropped this a star mainly because the men are almost all one- and two-dimensional, and also I think the book would have been a stronger one if we could have had more of Marilyn's story cut in earlier rather than, as another reviewer put it, so many needless descriptions of Ria's latest culinary creation or Rosemary's &quot;House Beautiful&quot; decorator showcase home or Annie needling Brian to shut up yet again. The book would also have worked just as well without Gertie and Jack--who were just stereotype characters, anyway. As densely populated as this book was, the American relatives could just as easily belonged to someone else without cluttering up the storyline.<br />Oh, well.  Those are minor quibbles.  This is a good one for airplanes, the beach, or stressful times at work when all you want to do when the kids are in bed is give your mind a vacation.  I WILL be reading more of Maeve Binchy's things. . .only I'll just check them out of the library from now on.	2000-11-06
US	50641439	R3MSZB9LYLD0XQ	0060920386	68579470	Barbarians at the Gate: The Fall of RJR Nabisco	Books	5	1	3	N	N	True tale of big deals, trophy wives, high living in 80s.	Better than &quot;Bonfire of the Vanities&quot;--which was a hoot nonetheless--because it's all true.  The authors managed somehow to get in-depth interviews with nearly all the people whose stories they tell here. This book gives you an informed inside look at one of the biggest corporate deals in American history.  Business students and business leaders will find in it an unvarnished look at a leveraged buyout and how the personal and corporate dramas of the key players rippled through the economy of the late 1980s.  But you don't necessarily have to be interested in IPOs, LBOs, and other Wall Street activities to enjoy it.  I bought it just to read about Carolyne Rhoeme and Henry Kravis and the way they took Manhattan by storm there for awhile (I think they're divorced now and she's left the fashion business to do high-end floral consulting--nice work if you can get it, right?)<br />Beyond the fun, though, many innocent people paid a high price for the boardroom wars between Kravis and Johnson. As one person said after it was all said and done, &quot;I no longer work for a company, but an investment.&quot;  And she left it rather than move yet again because she sensed it was only about the bottom line.  The last sentence in the book is a question that every ethical businessperson should ask before putting a company into play the way Ross Johnson did.	2000-11-01
US	50641439	R2BW0AOV6V9FB0	0446359866	806938577	Presumed Innocent: A Novel	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Inside the mind of &quot;Lusty Rusty&quot;. . .	. . .it's obvious he still can't get Carolyn out of his mind, even though she's now dead and he's the prime suspect in her murder.  But as the murder trial begins, more secrets, motives, and pain surface; each one makes you wonder anew: did he or didn't he?  We see the ripples all this makes in Rusty's career (ironically, he's a prosecuting lawyer) and his marriage to a math professor who is as brilliant a scholar as Carolyn was a lawyer.  When the murder was solved, though, I found myself wondering:  did it happen the way a character said it did, or was it how a defense attorney would spin it out to get a client acquitted? <br />Since others have mentioned the movie here, I will too. When I first read this book, I pictured Ellen Barkin as Carolyn. She has sizzled on-screen in everything she's ever played.  The producers blew it by not getting her.  Every other part was perfectly cast.  They needed a hot mama, not a cool kitten, to make the character believable.  Oh, well.  This book was easy to pick up and hard to put down, as they used to say.  Enjoy. . .	2000-10-19
US	50641439	R3L8K4FZ8HYTIM	0449146391	574313351	Murder at the PTA Luncheon	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Meet the super-sleuths of Hancock, Connecticut:)	OK, I admit it.  I read &quot;We Wish You a Merry Murder&quot; first.  This was the third of the Susan and Kathleen books I read.  Loved &quot;Merry Murder&quot; and pretty much hated &quot;40th Birthday Body.&quot;  This one, however, is a keeper.  Both the cops and the suburban housewife who helps them solve the murders here confront their prejudices about the way the &quot;other half&quot; lives, be that rich vs. poor, or married vs. single.  Susan is not just another frivolous dilettante wealthy stay-at-home mom.  She's a good friend with great sensitivity.  This one doesn't have the laugh-out-loud funny moments of &quot;Merry Murder,&quot; but it's good nonetheless.  Like the other reviewer, I was VERY disappointed in the &quot;Menu for Murder&quot; TV movie based on this book.  They butchered it.  All of Valerie Wolzien's books would make good Sunday night TV movies or Lifetime TV fare--but only if they stick to the book more faithfully.  I love these characters, and what you see here is just the start of a fun series with people you don't mind visiting again.  After this one, just skip &quot;40th Birthday Body&quot; and take the rest of the books in order, and things will unfold without missing a beat.	2000-10-19
US	50641439	R2YBSI2C5OOYRJ	044021145X	438349301	The Firm	Books	5	1	1	N	N	It blew me away the first time I read it. . .	. . .that would be way back in either '91 or '92, I think.  I'd read a local newspaper review of it that said it was impossible to put down. While going through a very busy time when I needed some escapist fiction to help me cope, I bought it.  Oh, my.  What WAS Mitch going to do when both that workplace and the Fibbies started putting the squeeze on him?  <br />This one was written back before John Grisham got famous and his work got watered down and sloppy in the rush to get yet another one to the publisher and collect his royalties.  Everyone I loaned it to--from my &quot;silver citizen&quot; mom to my future husband to my co-workers--couldn't put it down, either.  I myself stayed up all night to finish it.  Mitch and Abby were folks worth rooting for, and I kept booing, hissing, and spitting everytime that evil security guard reared his head.  Great fun.  Not Shakespeare, but definitely not bad, either.	2000-10-18
US	50641439	R3WO860HASKDW	0449221504	216366114	K Is for Killer (Kinsey Millhone Mysteries)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	I felt grimy just reading this. . .	. . .much as I did when I first read &quot;The Chamber&quot; by John Grisham (my least favorite in his series of books, as this one is in the Grafton books).  If you're reading this one as your intro to the series, you should know that it it not at all like the other books.  There's very little humor in this outing--Kinsey is depressed here, dealing with issues of an extended family split and relatives who want to know her after all these years, and the case she's taken on is sadder and seamier than her previous ones--which definitely doesn't help her disposition here. Most of the characters in this book, like the ones in &quot;H&quot;, were so slimy and snaky that my skin crawled and I wanted to take a shower when I finally finished the book.  &quot;L&quot; was better, but let's hope Kinsey gets her groove back soon.  She's too likeable a character to stay this depressed forever. . .	2000-10-18
US	50641439	R38UTTDOTE0SHA	0449219461	994862601	H Is for Homicide (Kinsey Millhone Mysteries)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Kinsey's in trouble again. . .	. . .it all starts innocently enough, when California Fidelity, the company who's given Kinsey free office space for years in return for the occasional fraud investigation, gets taken over by Gordon Titus, an &quot;efficiency expert.&quot;  He's got it in for her from the get-go, so she takes a last-ditch fraud investigation job.  Next thing you know, an old school friend, who's mixed up with the woman Kinsey's investigating, enters the picture, and to help him, Kinsey follows the woman clear into LA and gang territory. Getting out is not as easy as getting in was, either. This is especially upsetting to Vera Lipton, Kinsey's old CF friend, who just KNOWS that Kinsey will not be able to squeeze in a shopping trip for a new dress to wear to Vera's wedding.  The last sentence of the epilogue, even more than the previous ones, is a &quot;cliffhanger,&quot; and I couldn't wait to read &quot;I&quot; and find out what would happen next.  Have fun, folks. . .	2000-10-18
US	50641439	R2RSJME9TT2IDC	0449219364	205738260	G Is for Gumshoe (Kinsey Millhone Mysteries)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	This was my first &quot;Kinsey&quot; book. . .	. . .and I was hooked the minute I read about the loving care her landlord Henry put into rebuilding her apartment after it had been blown away during a previous case.  On it went through her trip to another town and a sleepless night in a &quot;no-tell motel&quot; thanks to some very amorous neighbors in the next room.  To be honest, the mystery took a back seat to all the human-interest detailing here--and especially the relationship between Kinsey and her bodyguard.  I'm rooting for them to find one another at the end of the alphabet, if you know what I mean. . .	2000-10-18
US	50641439	R3SBUWLMJ25DF0	061300194X	883917886	A Time to Kill	Books	5	1	2	N	N	If you can get through the first chapter, it's great. . .	. . .I read this one years before becoming a parent, and it's probably a good thing.  The first chapter is absolutely nightmarish for anyone who has a young daughter (as I do now).  Nonetheless, it sets the stage for the rest of the book.  Can a black man in Klan-dominated Mississippi get a fair trial for shooting the men who brutalized his little girl?  And at what cost?  The white folks who come to his defense pay a high price, just as the civil rights workers did during the 60s when trying to help the black people of the deep South get registered to vote and end segregation.  This is a riveting, unforgettable book.  It will stay with you long after you've turned the last page.  I've never seen the movie.  I will never need to.  Like The Firm, this is an early Grisham novel, and one of his best.  Nothing he's written since &quot;The Client&quot; has touched those early works in quality or resonance.  Find this one in your local library. . .	2000-10-18
US	50641439	R1HZ024MN1U7Z	0553271636	594566833	D Is for Deadbeat (A Kinsey Millhone Mystery)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	I liked it!	The funniest passages in this book involve the deadbeat's wife/widow (and she's not who you think in the beginning of the book) both at home and later at the funeral parlor.  (Sue Grafton does funny funerals). When I first read this book, I snickered over the anniversary picture description, Kinsey's Sunday School memories, and her Wonder Woman sheets for days.  Then I handed it to my mother and said, &quot;you have to read this.  It's FUNNY.&quot;  She liked it, too.  Like most of the &quot;Alphabet&quot; books, this one builds to a tension-filled last chapter, with the &quot;respectfully submitted&quot; epilogue that wraps it up for this go-around.	2000-10-18
US	50641439	RI4IJV2HMPI3V	0786701056	104701893	Mona	Books	5	1	2	N	N	This would make a great TV movie of the week. . .	as the other reviewer said, it's &quot;Body Heat&quot; with an additional plot twist. Whoa, mama! I can't say anymore than that--you have to read it for yourself.  Fortunately, it's a fairly quick and easy read.  Lawrence Block can make you smell the grimy city one minute and have you basking in luxury the next.  If you like his other books, you'll like this one, too.	2000-10-17
US	50641439	RIKJS9E4FUS57	0449147231	981532445	We Wish You a Merry Murder	Books	5	12	12	N	N	This is the Susan Henshaw mystery you should start with	This was the first of the Susan Henshaw mysteries I read--a friend recommended it to me as a fun change of pace from all the professional and religious reading I was doing at the time.  To be honest, it's far superior to the first two installments, &quot;Murder at the PTA Luncheon&quot; and &quot;The 40th Birthday Body&quot;--the latter of which was especially bad. &quot;PTA&quot; probably would have kept me reading, but &quot;40th&quot; would have stopped me cold.  This is the one to start with if you're new to the series.  Susan copes with holiday shopping, a visit from her mother-in-law, parties--this series has at least one party in every installment!--and, of course, the murder of a neighbor.  But how do I say this?  This one is just plain FUN to read. Call me corny, but I can feel Christmas in the air and coming through every page.  Like the other reviewer, I like to re-read this during December.  That's when my holiday savings account is matured and just for a few weeks, I feel as if I could just go into the stores and buy whatever I want like Susan and Kathleen do.  By the way, I'd never heard of a cookie exchange party until I read this book.  This is my year to try one myself.  Did I mention that this book is fun???	2000-10-03
US	50641439	R2BNBCWNJ557P7	0449146855	587712893	Fortieth Birthday Body	Books	1	2	3	N	N	Nope. . .too depressing.. .	I was in my mid-30s when I read this one the first time.  I thought then that maybe since I hadn't turned 40 myself, that I didn't understand why Susan was crying in the tub or flinching every time someone said something about Volvos being more her style than a sports car.  But now that I'm over 40 myself, I really think that she was reacting more to the reappearance of a former rival for her husband's affections than the idea of no longer being 30-something.  I do think that Valerie Wolzien did a great job of spreading the guilt and suspicion around. . .but to be honest, the murderer's identity seemed to have come out of left field.  I had a hard time seeing where she planted the clues when I read this the second time.  It also bothered me that, this being a series, and knowing we'll see these people again,  she left so much unsaid and unresolved between Susan and Jed.  In the end, when she goes and buys the car that SHE wants rather than the one &quot;he&quot; picked out for her, is that supposed to be the payback for his having hurt her by stepping out with the town tramp?  In some ways, not knowing how they dealt with this kind of taints him for me in the subsequent books.  When he's all loving and can't do enough for her in some of the later installments, I'm thinking, &quot;You snake.  Are you behaving badly again?&quot;  So. . .all in all, I just try to pretend this book was never written and enjoy the other ones for the pure fantastic pleasure they are.  Don't bother looking for this one if it goes out of print.	2000-09-28
US	50641439	RCLUBNNYKKZCQ	0373707746	953277637	Cop of the Year (Count on a Cop) (Harlequin Superromance No. 774)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Recommended reading for teachers, cops, romantics at heart:)	Just for the record, folks, this is the first Harlequin romance I've read in at least 15 years.  I stumbled onto it last Thanksgiving while visiting my husband's extended family (his aunt is a teacher), and thought it would be a good book, but was too embarrassed to ask if I could borrow it.  I wrote down the title &amp; author, thinking I'd just buy it here at Amazon.  Alas, it was out of print.  Just a couple of weeks ago, though, I stumbled onto a used copy via another website, and it was worth the search!  Folks, this is not your standard &quot;formula&quot; romance with the damsel in distress waiting for the all-knowing hero to rescue her and overpower her with his. . .um. . .manhood.  Mitch and Cassie are two people with whom you'll laugh. . .and cry. <br />Reading this book made me wish I'd ignored all the bad advice I got in the 70s about how English majors were a dime a dozen, and gone on to become a teacher, anyway. To her credit, Kathryn Shay made this one as much about the kids as she did the &quot;romance.&quot; Cassie is not a &quot;perfect&quot; teacher, but she cares, she takes responsibility for herself and the cleaning up of her own messes, and she's not afraid of anything. . .except maybe letting that gorgeous Mitch get too close to her.  She doesn't trust cops.  This one, though, is just too good to pass up.  Mitch discovers that he needs what these students have to offer--forgiveness, perspective, and a bit of closure from a hellish war trauma--as much as they need people like him and Cassie to give them hope that their own past experiences with gang life, abusive parents, or teen pregnancy do not have to blight their futures.  The final scenes in the classroom will have you in tears as you read about how they all comfort and support Mitch when he has just shared the secrets he swore never to tell anyone.  <br />And, oh yes, the scenes between Mitch and Cassie are breath-taking.  My, my.  Where DID I put my fan?  :)  I'm ready to go hunting forthe sequel featuring Seth, the principal from this book.	2000-09-26
US	50641439	R3BPA6CJXNLE32	0783813929	84672167	Angelique: The Marquise of the Angels	Books	5	4	4	N	N	How do you say &quot;Angelique rocks&quot; in French?. . .	. . .I remember first seeing these books when my friends read them in high  school.  They looked like &quot;bodice rippers&quot; if you looked at the  covers that Bantam Publishing Company gave them, and I figured my folks  would never let me bring them into the house.  Well. . .twenty years later,  I rediscovered them via the Internet, and the old adage &quot;never judge a  book by its cover&quot; definitely applies here.  I have found all nine  books that made it into English before going out of print, and am halfway  through Number 6 in the series (Countess Angelique).  You will learn about  French history, mining, chemistry, and later in the series, sailing and  settling in the New World during the early days of America's colonization.  The research, care, and love that Serge and Anne Golon put into these books  shows on every page.<br /> &quot;Angelique: Marquise of the Angels&quot; is  the one that started it all.  It's worth the price of the book just to read  the wonderful chapter where she and her husband--who were not in love when  they entered their arranged marriage--discover that love has found them and  they finally become a married couple in every sense of the word.  (Is it  hot in here, or is it just me?)<br />Throughout all her adventures, Angelique  is sometimes up, sometimes down, but she's never ever out of the game.  Like Scarlett O'Hara and Timex watches, she &quot;takes a licking and keeps  on ticking.&quot;  Now, if we could just get those last three books  translated into English. . .:)	2000-08-14
US	50641439	R33IBCWLWGO5FC	0310226996	647058852	The Life You've Always Wanted	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Simple to read, profound to ponder	Next to the Bible and C.S. Lewis' &quot;Mere Christianity,&quot;  no book has rocked my spiritual world quite like this one. In the first pages of the first chapter, the author tells us he's nowhere near spiritual  perfection--&quot;I love God so little and sin so much.&quot; He certainly  isn't afraid to take off the masks and be authentic.  This is like hearing  about spiritual discipline from a trusted friend.  The heart of John  Ortburg's work here is that you don't have to chuck it all and go a  monastery to hear God's voice or be transformed by him.  God can meet you  and walk with you right where you are--home, office, or car.  Sure, we  already know that, right?  Intellectually, yes. . .but how many of us  can  say we really *experience* it?  John really hit some of my spiritual sore  spots--especially when he talked about practicing service and secrecy.   Part of secrecy, he says, is &quot;resigning from impression  management&quot;--in other words, watch out when you catch yourself saying  things like, &quot;I saw this interesting piece on TV that other night--not  that I watch much TV.  It just happened to be on.&quot;  OUCH!  Thank  Heaven there's humor here, too. I agree with the reviewer who thought the  pick-up truck story was a good one.  This book made such an impression on  me that I'm giving every Christian on my Christmas list a copy this year.   Don't miss this little hidden gem from one of Bill Hybels' associates at  Willow Creek Church!	2000-04-28
US	50641439	RGRWMLTGFMIJO	0449150356	264247352	Weddings Are Murder (A Susan Henshaw Mystery #11)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Not the best. . .but not the worst, either	I have to agree with some of the other reviewers who say Susan is changing.  I attribute some of her scatterbrained behavior in this book to mother-of-the-bride nerves, but she's actually been less flighty in earlier  books during events that were far more traumatic than this (The 40th  Birthday Body, for example).  But let's be honest--she's a Baby Boomer and  Boomers are portrayed in our culture as self-absorbed and pre-occupied with  not aging.  So Susan's a little flawed.  I do hope that in future stories,  she'll get some of her true detective sense back, and start enjoying this  stage of life she's entering as the children are growing up and leaving  home.	1999-12-21
