US	50658596	R1NJ6J0EAC0JNT	0805079076	436532946	The Unfolding of Language: An Evolutionary Tour of Mankind's Greatest Invention	Books	5	14	15	N	N	An insightful analysis of linguistic evolution, but it's not light reading	This is one of the most intellectually fascinating books I have ever read. As soon as I started thinking about the design of language, I have wondered how language comes about. Who decided which verbs would be regular and which irregular? Why \\"mice\\" instead of \\"mouses\\"? Even as a child, I wondered \\"Who decides these things?\\" (Admittedly, I was not a typical kid.) Why does our language change? Why is English spelling so goofy? How did the Latin noun case structure evolve? Who invented the Arabic triconsonantal pattern?     By now, many readers have said \\"Huh?\\" and moved on to the next book. But if these are things you've wondered about, this is the perfect book for you, too. Deutscher tries to explain the mysterious processes underlying the development and decay of languages. In his style of writing, he is walking a tightrope; this is a book that is aimed at intellectuals who are not knowledgeable about lingustics. At times he's a bit too cute for his own good, but I will forgive that flaw because it's preferable to being too obtuse. Deutscher's book will never make any bestseller list, but it has made the academic discipline of linguistics accessible to those outside his specialty.	2005-09-25
US	50658596	R1R79ODFCQNNOL	0972595902	396691043	Dusted: The Unauthorized Guide to Buffy the Vampire Slayer	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A thorough guide to all seven seasons although negative in tone	Fans looking for a guide that covers all seven seasons of the series have either this book or Keith Topping's guide to choose from. In their introduction, these authors take a nasty swipe at their fellow Brit, Keith Topping (although not using his name), in saying that they won't mention trivial continuity glitches or list every pop reference. Instead, these authors like to discuss how an episode contributes to character development and fits into larger story arcs, and the underlying moral or lesson of each episode. <br /> <br />Overall, this guide is awfully negative, and the downbeat tone gets irritating after awhile. I can agree with Miles that the series went downhill after Season Three (high school angst is more traumatic than postsecondary angst). But whereas I loved the Trioka, at least in their earlier appearances, and the evil-Willow arc, this guide is utterly scathing toward those story elements. I was curious how these authors would react to my favorite episodes, and very often they loathed them, such as \\"Fear Itself,\\" \\"Superstar\\" (\\"extremely stupid\\"), \\"Gone,\\" and \\"Grave\\" (\\"genuinely awful\\"). Nonetheless it's interesting to read another perspective, and a book can still be fun even if I disagree with the authors. <br /> <br />There are one or two pages per episode - actually quite a bit because each page is large and the book uses a fairly small font - plus numerous sidebars and material covering novels, comics, music, etc. The overuse of brackets is quite irritating; the authors seem incapable of writing more than ten words without putting a tangential thought in brackets.	2005-09-13
US	50658596	R28HQYRF8EXH0B	0312332211	306281105	Standing Next to History: An Agent's Life Inside the Secret Service	Books	5	4	8	N	N	Life as Reagan's Secret Service agent	Joseph Petro describes his career in the Secret Service, protecting Kissinger, Rockefeller, Mondale, Quayle, Pope John Paul II, and in particular, Ronald Reagan, who is described in glowing terms. Oddly, at the beginning of his career, the author infiltrated John Kerry's antiwar group as an undercover operative. This is a highly readable book and I found it hard to put down. Much of the book describes the minutiae of how the Secret Service functions: For instance, when the president travels abroad, his entourage requires 19 planes!    The most intriguing passages are about Petro's confrontations with police administrators in friendly countries. It is tempting to accept Petro's perspective that the infinite importance of protecting the president justifies any and all acts of arrogance or bullying. In another light, there is something offputting about the pride Petro takes in his bully-like victories over the head of the Japanese police, the US Capital Police, and US Navy security personnel. At one point, in a Quebec hotel lobby, Petro came within a hair's-breadth of a gun battle with a top official of the Canadian Mounties - is this evidence that Petro did his job well or evidence that he did his job badly?    The author wonders out loud why he gets along better with his counterparts in totalitarian countries such as the Soviet Union or China than with his counterparts in free countries like Canada and Japan. I wonder too.	2005-09-01
US	50658596	R3SNCP0G7129YE	1400096413	519479219	The Family: The Real Story of the Bush Dynasty	Books	3	14	34	N	N	Poisonous mix of 95% fact plus 5% rumor-presented-as-fact	Imagine someone wrote a book about you, and after talking to everyone who hates you, compiled a list of every flaw and every mistake, intermingled with rumor and gossip presented as fact. This is the approach that Kelley takes, and while it does make for an entertaining book that's hard to put down, one feels a need to take a shower after reading it.<br /><br />A lot of Kelley's dirt is material of which even loyal Republicans were aware: We all accept that George W. is inarticulate, stubborn, and although he might have a high IQ, he's not an intellectual. Everyone knows about his history with alcohol and his checkered past as a businessman - points Kelley pounds at viciously and incessantly. More damning is her accusation that George W. had been cheating on his wife with a Midland prostitute who was threatened by CIA agents, and that he has a history of using cocaine. Is this true? Who knows? Kelley seems very thorough in her sourcing, but one gets the sense that she'd say it even if the source lacked credibility. Even when Bush does something positive, Kelley tweaks her wording to put the worst possible spin on the event, not realizing her book would have more credibility if she showed more evenhandedness.<br /><br />Prescott Bush, George Sr., and George W. each get roughly a third of the book. (Does anyone really care about Prescott?) As well, the women of the Bush family receive the Kelley treatment - Barbara, Laura, and the twins are all presented in a very negative light.<br /><br />I bought the 2005 Anchor paperback (although not from Amazon), and the binding fell apart despite gentle handling. I bought a replacement copy, and once again, the binding fell apart and chunks of pages fell into my lap.	2005-09-01
US	50658596	R2ESY2YX4U098V	0312291531	215594631	Dr. Johnson's London: Coffee-Houses and Climbing Boys, Medicine, Toothpaste and Gin, Poverty and Press-Gangs, Freakshows and Female Education	Books	4	5	6	N	N	About the era of Samuel Johnson, not about Johnson himself	Picard covers an era of British social history, the 1700s, that has received relatively little attention. The book is divided into four parts: The first part covers London's infrastructure, and the other three parts cover the three major socioeconomic categories: poor, \\"middling,\\" and rich, although the rich get rather little page space. There are over 50 illustrations.    This book is reminiscent of an encyclopedia: For each heading there is a description of one-to-five paragraphs, making this an easy book to jump around in as the spirit moves you. A less charitable description would be to say that the style is disjointed. The amount of detail is impressive, and the reader is given a thorough introduction to daily life of that era. The author often launches into remarks that are intended to be humorous. I imagine this was done so the book would not be dry reading, but her comments often seem gratuitous or disruptive to the flow of the material. There is very little here specifically about Samuel Johnson; this is a book about his era, not about him.    I preferred a very similar book, \\"1700: Scenes from London Life\\" by Maureen Waller. Waller's book covers the identical material (50 years earlier) and has a more cohesive style of writing.	2005-08-15
US	50658596	RE5ASLKI3GNFT	1568582161	558916744	1700: Scenes from London Life	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Excellent social history of daily life in 1700 London	Oops, I meant to give this five stars, but the software won't let me change my rating. I thoroughly enjoyed this author's \\"London 1945,\\" so I wanted to read her treatment of this earlier era. It's amazing that one person can be so knowledgable of social history of such disparate periods. The author introduces us to every aspect of daily life in 1700 London using a very readable style of writing.    Here are the chapter titles (in some instances, I've paraphrased): 1) Marriage, 2) Childbirth, 3) Childhood, 4) Disease, 5) Death, 6) The Home, 7) Fashion, 8) Food, 9) Coffee-houses & taverns, 10) Amusements, 11) Work, 12) The Poor, 13) Foreigners, 14) Religion, 15) Vice, and 16) Crime & Punishment. There are almost fifty b&w illustrations.	2005-08-14
US	50658596	RQOBVY3Y60TE5	0786015195	809744706	The Windsor Knot: Charles, Camilla and the Legacy of Diana (Pinnacle Biography)	Books	4	32	34	N	N	The Windsor tale told with the spotlight on Camilla	Is there anything about the Di-and-Chuck saga that hasn't already been said? Christopher Wilson has decided that a book highlighting events from Camilla's perspective would fill a gap in the coverage of these events. It's a reasonable idea for a book, except that there's nothing to indicate he has talked directly to Camilla, and he's reduced to guessing what goes on in her mind.  <br /> <br />Nonetheless, the book is an easy read and approaches the well-known story from a different angle, adding a few tidbits such as describing the Queen's raging hatred of Camilla. According to Wilson, it was Camilla who encourged Charles to marry Diana. The book is rather ambivalent in its perspective on Camilla, suggesting she saw no ethical dilemma in cheating on her husband to be Charles' mistress and orchestrating the sham marriage between Charles and Di. Yet in other passages, Camilla is shown in a sympathetic light. Even if Camilla is responsible for her own fate, it can't be easy being the most hated woman in Britain.  <br /> <br />The book portrays Di's marriage as more of an empty shell than other authors have portrayed it. The author suggests Di knew what she was getting into, but was too naive and too intimidated to back out during the engagement. The marriage never had a chance; Di was never intended to be more than a showpiece. As the story is told in this book, the villain is Charles, who over and over is portrayed as self-centered even by the standards of royalty and utterly devoid of a moral compass or basic interpersonal skills.   <br /> <br />The early chapters cover Camilla's family history. Skip those and jump into the middle of the book which is far more interesting. The book, written in 2002, ends with the author speculating that everyone should brace themselves for a Charles-and-Camilla marriage announcement, which of course occurred in 2005.	2005-07-27
US	50658596	R189TTM9HDHCDT	0312338031	190813230	London 1945: Life in the Debris of War	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Superb coverage of wartime London	This well-written book covers life in London at the end of the war in immense detail. The ten chapters deal with (1) V-1/V-2 bombings, (2) censorship and propaganda, (3) housing, (4) rationing, (5) clothing, (6) crime, (7) V-E Day, (8) Churchill's defeat in the 1945 election, (9) heart-rending stories of the evacuation of children, and (10) demobilization and the transition to a peacetime society (my labels, not the book's).  <br /> <br />First person narratives are intertwined with historical fact to create a book that conveys the full flavor of living in that era. The author especially emphasizes the bureaucratic side of wartime London. For example, when a house was bombed, a complex set of procedures came into play to assess whether the house could be repaired, to account for the inhabitants and rescue them, to guard property against looting, to determine whether payments were warranted under insurance policies, to find replacement housing, to replace lost ration tickets, and lastly to serve snacks to the homeless victims. Everything was thought out, and everything was done in a systematic manner. Of course, crime and abuses of the system were commonplace as well.  <br /> <br />Even for those who are fairly knowledgeable about WWII history, it is amazing what Londoners suffered through. Homemakers had to be masters of bureaucracy to be on top of weekly changes to the ration system, as well as queuing for groceries and scrounging for clothes and household goods. The fear of being in the next bomb blast didn't disappear until the war ended. London housing was nothing to brag about even before the war, and during the war people crowded together in incredibly cramped conditions, often living in bombed-out ruins. Children were evacuated to the countryside for their own safety, but at the end of the war some children did not want to return to their real parents, and in many instances the parents didn't want their kids back. And when the war ended, wartime conditions continued. For instance, rationing continued after the war so that food could be provided to Germany. It took more than a decade after the war for London to truly recover. All in all, Waller has written a superb book that brings these events alive for the reader.	2005-07-27
US	50658596	R2FV9ZE637ARE3	0060598611	479922467	Outposts: Journeys to the Surviving Relics of the British Empire	Books	1	12	30	N	N	It was a great book in 1985 but needs updating	I thought I was buying a recently written book, and was very disappointed to see this is a 1985 book I had read years ago, with a new cover and a new introduction. For this reason, I have given it only one star. <br /> <br />That being said, the 1985 book was a fascinating travelogue for its era. Simon Winchester visited all of the remaining territories of Great Britain, many of them obscure places such as Tristan da Cunha in the Atlantic and Boddam in the Indian Ocean, populated by people who have been more-or-less forgotten by the British government. The best chapter is on the Falklands, where the author arrived a few days before the Argentine invasion. The author's description of pre-invasion Falklands was particularly evocative, as he describes a society stuck in a 1950s time-warp where the work ethic had been lost. <br /> <br />Winchester makes a number of cogent points about the governance of these places. He points out that the people in France's territories directly elect members to the French legislature, yet the people of Britain's territories have no representation whatsoever, even though they are generally staunch monarchists. Also, the author emphasizes how unfair it is that people in predominantly white territories have the right to move to Britain, but those in non-white territories such as St. Helena are not permitted to move to Britain. (Apparently some reforms have occurred since the book was written in 1985.) <br /> <br />It would be fascinating if Simon Winchester retraced his 1985 itinerary and described how these places have changed in the last 20 years. That is the book that should have been written.	2005-06-20
US	50658596	R10SG5F138MVVR	0688170897	177458796	Ghosts of 42nd Street: A History of America's Most Infamous Block	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A sweeping survey of NY theatrical history	Anthony Bianco describes the history of Times Square from its first theater in 1904 to the present day. He walks us through the era of vaudeville and burlesque, introduces us to memorable characters such as Diamond Jim Brady and (much later) Marty Hodas the porn entrepreneur, all the way through to the redevelopment of the 1990s.     The theme of Bianco's book is that even at its height, Times Square was seedy and disreputable. For a theater to show a Shakepearean play had always been the exception rather than the norm. The neighborhood has always been a center for prostitution of all kinds, and the theaters have always been testing the limits of what society considers decent. Any stage show was successful in proportion to the amount of skin exposed. When movies took over, the theaters of Times Square showed second-rate action movies (known as \\"grind theaters\\") while the more highbrow movies opened elsewhere in the city. In short, the Times Square of today is more respectable than it had ever been at any point in its history.    My complaint about the book is that there are no maps and only 33 period b&w photos, which are not nearly enough. Much of the book describes particular buildings in great detail without a single illustration of those buildings. The reader is expected to know that the 200 block of 42nd Street is the historic heart of the theater district and that the 300 block has always been beyond the beaten path. Detailed maps would have improved this book enormously.	2005-06-20
US	50658596	R1MF0QRMAQZTR6	0801853370	156332674	Inventing Times Square: Commerce and Culture at the Crossroads of the World	Books	2	2	13	N	N	Nostalgia for the good-ol-days(?) of sleaze and prostitutes	This book consists of 18 essays about various aspects of the history of the Times Square neighborhood. There are over 40 illustrations, mostly b&w period photos and reproductions of old theater programs, as well as one map. The drawback of collections of essays is that the reader never gets a chance to become comfortable with the tone or worldview of a single author. On the positive side, if one author is offputting, perhaps the next essay will be better, and it's impossible to dislike every essay of the book. Some of the essays are quite broad in topic while others are quite specialized (such as \\"The Syndicate/Shubert War\\" between two theater entrepreneurs in the early 1900s).     When so many authors are involved, it's hard to generalize about the book. To the extent that there is a theme, it is nostalgia for the pre-1990 era when Times Square was filled with criminals, beggars, and porn shops. For example, here is one of many negative comments about the Marriott Marquis hotel: \\"The hotel is a nasty piece of business .... [the hotel's design] seemed more deliberately arranged to sift out all but the most doggedly determined street people before they reached the eighth floor [lobby]\\" (p. 13). The complete context implies street people would be a positive addition to the lobby.    I have been to Times Square both before and after its revitalization, and I am mystified by the notion that porn theaters, junkies, and beggars are preferable to having the sidewalks jammed by respectable tourists seeing Broadway musicals. This is a strange form of nostalgia, indeed. For a much more balanced treatment of the topic, read \\"Ghosts of 42nd Street\\" by Anthony Bianco.	2005-06-20
US	50658596	R2632IZAK0WNON	0380818736	930515671	Murder in Sin City : The Death of a Las Vegas Casino Boss	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The bizarre life and death of a Vegas casino owner	Jeff German writes about the 1998 death (murder?) of casino owner Ted Binion and the ensuing murder trial. The victim was no innocent - Ted Binion was a heroin addict, and the prosecutor charged his ex-stripper girlfriend, Sandy Murphy, and *her* boyfriend, Rick Tabish, with the crime. What makes this more interesting than many books on the \\"true crime\\" shelf is that the reader is introduced to the rough and tumble world of a colorful casino mogul and his chaotic personal life. Even though Ted Binion was not the most sympathetic of victims, he did not deserve to die, and the author describes his death and the ensuing trial.  <br /> <br />The defendants argued that Binion accidentally killed himself with a drug overdose, while the prosecutor's theory of the crime was complex, circumstantial, and yet convincing - at least the way Jeff German tells the story. <br /> <br />The two defendants were found guilty largely on the strength of forensic evidence from the autopsy. What the author does not report, because it occurred in 2004 after the book was published, is that an appeals court ordered a retrial, and in the second trial the defendants were found not guilty of murder because the jury placed little weight on the forensic evidence. It's hard to believe that justice was done.	2005-05-11
US	50658596	RC85ZQ2TFMXTG	1560254904	225067	The Last Honest Place in America: Paradise and Perdition in the New Las Vegas (Nation Books)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A gambler writes about life on (and behind) The Strip	Marc Cooper's book is a collection of essays about Las Vegas. The first quarter of the book is a history of the city, which will be old material unless this is the first book you've read on the subject. Why does everyone who writes about Las Vegas feel obligated to rehash the city's history? The rest of the book is an assortment of essays about such things as the Ted Binion murder trial, a Franciscan monk who works with the homeless, corruption in local politics, the life story of the author's favorite blackjack dealer, a self-help group for gambling addicts, and a transsexual stripper who is trying to unionize the city's strippers. Cooper loves to gamble and conveys the addictive nature of trying to win at blackjack. What surprised me most is that for only $250 you can take a 100 hour course on how to be a blackjack dealer - surely a bargain for training that actually leads to a job.    I can't help but compare this book to Hal Rothman's \\"Neon Metropolis,\\" which covers the same territory. Rothman's book covers a wider variety of topics and focuses more on life away from The Strip than Cooper does. On the other hand, Cooper doesn't seem to have an ideological axe to grind like Rothman, although both writers are politically liberal. Cooper's theme, that Las Vegas is an \\"honest\\" place at a time when Americans have lost faith in other institutions, seems like quite a stretch.    Cooper's book feels like it was published too hastily: There's an epilogue with updates on his stories - why not simply revise the main part of the book instead? There are a few factual errors, there's no index, and someone should tell Cooper that the possessive form of \\"it\\" is not \\"it's.\\"	2005-05-11
US	50658596	R155F5AJ3MZ0F3	0066212839	344107382	The Accidental President: How 413 Lawyers, 9 Supreme Court Justices, and 5,963,110 Floridians (Give or Take a Few) Landed George W. Bush in the White House	Books	5	4	5	N	N	An interesting twist on the 2000 election outcome	Kaplan does a superb job of walking the reader through the incredibly complex events between election day and Gore's final concession to George W. Bush. Ideally, this book should be read together with Jeffrey Toobin's \\"Too Close to Call,\\" because both books cover the same events from different perspectives. Both writers are pro-Democrat, but where Toobin blames the Democrats for being gutless, Kaplan attributes the blame for Gore's defeat in a surprising way: Kaplan blames the liberal-based custom of judicial activism, and Justice Anthony Kennedy in particular, for the sequence of events that ended in Bush's victory. <br /> <br />Kaplan's argument, coming from a liberal, is an unusual one: He argues that Roe v. Wade, the pivotal 1973 abortion case, was a debacle of judicial interference in the legislative process, and established the pattern of judges intervening in anything that they wanted to tinker with. The legal reasoning behind Roe v. Wade was that some judges imagined there might have been a right to privacy somewhere in the Constitution, even though that wording does not appear anywhere.  <br /> <br />Fast forward to 2000, and we have the spectacle of Justice Kennedy as a key swing-vote on the Supreme Court, intervening in the presidential election merely because he had a whim that his judgement would be better than anyone else's. Thus, for those who accept this author's reasoning, we have the rich irony of Roe v. Wade leading to a judicial coup d'etat by a conservative-controlled Supreme Court. Somewhere along the way, the Supreme Court has declared itself to be dictator over the executive and legislative branches. <br /> <br />Writing in the summer of 2001, Kaplan says, \\"George W. Bush may be forgotten soon enough. His presidency is accidental and the tranquil times don't cry out for leadership.\\"  Oops! Well, few anticipated what would happen a few months later.	2005-02-09
US	50658596	R1ZLUN3THWVOIO	0312305419	791065666	Sahara	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A sweeping tour of the countries of the Sahara	In 2001, Michael Palin travelled by camel, truck, boat, and train through Gibraltar, Morocco, the disputed territory of the Western Sahara, Mauritania, Senegal, Mali, Niger, Algeria, Libya, and Tunisia. Because his main purpose was to film a documentary, he typically was assigned a government \\"minder\\" in each country, although this did not stop Palin from writing about his candid impressions. For example, although he has enormous respect for the Polisario (Western Sahara) guerillas, Palin pokes fun at their military capabilities, and although he praises his Algerian government guides, he minces no words in saying that Algeria has deteriorated into anarchy.  <br /> <br />Although it's unlikely that this book will become a classic of travel literature, it's well-written and an easy read. The book has one map and 135 color photos.	2005-01-06
US	50658596	R27C1NKOGKJ16R	0062772805	376858385	Access Las Vegas 5e	Books	1	1	1	N	N	An astonishing number of mapping errors	I am a fan of the Access Guides because of their unique format, which divides a city into neighborhoods and then describes specific buildings, but this particular guide is a disaster. With this format, the neighborhood maps are especially important, and the most important of all - the map of the Strip - is riddled with errors. I counted 19 key buildings that were incorrectly located on this one map, including such landmarks as Caesars Palace, Bellagio, Paris, Aladdin, New York New York, MGM, and Tropicana. The New Frontier, a Strip hotel, is shown as being on Industrial Road! Who edited this debacle? <br /> <br />At the time I am writing this (early 2005), this 2000 edition is the most recent version available. It is shorter than the others in the Access series, about 140 pages, of which 20 pages are devoted to gambling tips. Coverage of the Strip and Downtown is thorough (if you can figure out where things are located), but outlying neighborhoods get less attention when compared to other guides in the Access series.	2005-01-03
US	50658596	R25RDCOBURMPZP	0312422601	636052637	Blue Latitudes: Boldly Going Where Captain Cook Has Gone Before	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Wonderful synthesis of travelogue and history	This delightful book combines history with a travel narrative. Captain Cook made three Pacific voyages between 1768 and 1780 to every part of the Pacific, discovering countless lands, bolstering British claims of sovereignty, and creating maps of surprising accuracy. Horwitz, with his alcohol-seeking sidekick and travel companion Roger Williamson,  retraces Cook's voyages, relying mainly on air travel, and inquires how Cook is regarded in historical hindsight in the various places he explored. Obviously the indigenous peoples of the Pacific view him negatively, and Horwitz examines both the pro-Cook and the anti-Cook perspectives.   <br /> <br />Areas visited by the author include Tahiti, New Zealand, eastern Australia, Niue, Tonga, and Hawaii, as well as Yorkshire and London in England. My favorite part was Horwitz's account of his visit to the Aleutian Islands of Alaska, where year-round storms make travel dangerous even in large modern ships. One marvels that an 18th century explorer in a primitive wooden vessel would make a similar voyage, knowing that even if all went well, it would still take a year to return to England. <br /> <br />The book was a bit overlong in places. In some instances, I felt I was reliving Horwitz's travel experiences in real time. But all things considered, this is a wonderful interweaving of history and travelogue.	2004-12-11
US	50658596	ROM93ZPZLIV2X	0007131887	11404300	The Victorian House: Domestic Life from Childbirth to Deathbed	Books	5	36	36	N	N	A wonderful survey of daily life in 1800s Britain	This is a wonderful survey of British social history in the 1800s - how people actually lived their lives day to day. Drawing from every possible historical source, the author describes what life was like for well-to-do Brits in the Victorian era, with a particular emphasis on London. Her theme is to take the reader through an upper-crust house room by room: One chapter on the kitchen, one on the scullery, one on the parlour, and so on. I found it utterly fascinating.<br /><br />Victorian England is not exactly ancient history, yet it is amazing how different life was then, and how unpleasant (by our standards) life was even for the wealthy. For instance, people tolerated incredible filth. Even among the well-to-do, coal dust coated every interior surface, clothing was heavy and dirty, and baths were infrequent. London fogs were so thick that pedestrians would bump into things. Food was extremely bland even for the elite, and it was thought that feeding vegetables to children would stir up sexual interest. Most surprising of all, women rarely questioned their inferior status. It was generally accepted that women were mentally and physically weak, and women themselves seemed to accept this with little questioning. The amount of change during the last century, in both material and non-material ways, is mind-boggling.<br /><br />Incidentally, this book appears to be identical to \\"Inside the Victorian Home\\" by the same author.	2004-11-19
US	50658596	R2A5BIUG6A1608	0895261448	353169735	Goodbye, Good Men: How Liberals Brought Corruption into the Catholic Church	Books	5	14	23	N	N	Are seminaries controlled by a gay-radical clique?	Rose's argument is that prospective priests in the traditionalist mould are routinely screened out by anti-religious psychologists employed by the dioceses, as well as by radical feminist nuns who often serve as diocesan vocation directors. The end result is that the seminaries are filled by gays and theological liberals. The book consists largely of first-person accounts by ex-seminarians and ex-professors who felt they were driven out of seminaries controlled by liberals and gays who regard traditionalists as threats to their way of life. <br /> <br />It is difficult to reconcile Rose's portrait of US Catholicism, in which gays and liberals are taking over, with the books written by Thomas Reese and John Allen, who describe a traditionalist-controlled Church that is rapidly dwindling in size and relevance.  <br /> <br />This is, to say the least, a highly provocative book. It is written by a traditionalist Catholic who assumes the reader shares that perspective; for example, Bishop Bruskewitz of Lincoln and Cardinal Ratzinger are held up as heros. Rose argues that if dioceses and their seminaries return to traditional Catholicism, prospective priests of integrity will want to join in large numbers, but the current situation actually serves to screen out such seminarians.	2004-10-18
US	50658596	R3JNRFE5VM6CQ7	0767915305	315577385	The Sex Lives of Cannibals: Adrift in the Equatorial Pacific	Books	5	56	68	N	N	A light entertaining account of an ex-pat's life in Kiribati	The author describes living for two years in Kiribati, an ex-British colony in the Pacific Ocean that is now independent. He thought he was moving to a tropical paradise, but instead found that even in the national capital, people would regularly defecate in the lagoon, the grocery stores couldn't keep basic staples in stock, and water and electric supplies were irregular at best. He speaks of the Kiribati people with enormous and sincere affection, but a reader can't avoid the conclusion that these islands would be better off if they were still a British colony.    Troost writes in a light, humourous tone, making this book a pleasure to read, although there are places where Troost is a little too cute for his own good. A few photos would have been a nice touch, and is it asking too much for the publisher to include a map? And by the way, the title is misleading - there is very little here about sex and nothing about cannibalism. A book this good does not need the cheap gimmick of a misleading title.	2004-10-16
US	50658596	R3LT99A40D1DKV	0470869755	299894057	Comrades and Strangers	Books	5	29	30	N	N	What it's like to be an ex-pat in Pyongyang	The author responded to an ad in Britain and found himself working for the North Korean government, polishing the English of their propaganda output. At the beginning of his employment, the author was incredibly naive, knowing nothing about North Korea yet taking a paycheck from its government. During his seven years in Pyongyang, 1987-1994, the author gradually became less naive while gaining a fondness for the North Korean people and its government. Eventually he realized that his love of North Korea was strictly a one-way street and that he would never be totally accepted. Yet even after leaving North Korea and learning how the rest of the world regards it, he is still excessively sympathetic toward its government.     The author describes what it is like to be an ex-pat working for the North Korean government - his daily life and his relationships with both Koreans and other foreigners. Some readers will regard the author as a communist dupe or stooge, while others will enjoy learning how the world looks from a North Korean perspective. Nonetheless, this is a readable and entertaining book for anyone interested in Korea.	2004-09-13
US	50658596	R31FMTPVYGEKQY	0753508281	490676283	Inside Bartlett's White House: An Unofficial and Unauthorised Guide to The West Wing	Books	4	69	84	N	N	Covers first three seasons and a portion of the fourth	Topping wrote excellent episode guides to \\"Buffy the Vampire Slayer,\\" a series which I like for the same reason I like \\"West Wing\\": I am willing to overlook unrealistic, inconsistent plots to enjoy the witty dialogue.     I zeroed in on Topping's treatment of \\"Dead Irish Writers,\\" the worst episode of the series. Topping accurately points out that the whole Donna-is-suddenly-Canadian plotline is ridiculous on many levels, and how unbelievable it is that the \\"English\\" (British?) ambassador would make rude comments to the President about the First Lady's body. However, the low point of the book is Topping's asinine rant about how the Northern Ireland conflict is solely about national loyalties and has nothing to do with religion. Nothing to do with religion?!    Topping, a Brit, gives four to six pages for each episode, focussing on logical flaws, memorable lines, actors' prior roles, and oddball categories such as \\"Oh, Donna!\\" Overall, the author's insights compared unfavorably to those in his \\"Buffy\\" books, but it is still the best hard-copy episode guide on the market. The \\"revised and updated\\" 2004 edition covers the first three seasons plus the first seven episodes of the fourth season.	2004-08-24
US	50658596	R3B8SXJ37J25ZH	0385509669	957212915	All the Pope's Men: The Inside Story of How the Vatican Really Thinks	Books	4	45	63	N	N	An effort to bridge the gap between US and the Vatican	In the first two-thirds of the book, the author discusses how Italian culture influences the Vatican worldview. He also explains how the Vatican bureaucracy is organized and how priest-bureaucrats are chosen and compensated. Then, a 40-page portion is in diary style, with Allen carefully quoting Vatican officials about the pedophilia scandal. I found this segment to be very discouraging, as official after official attributes the scandal to American sexual hysteria, Jewish conspiracies, \\"pushy Americans,\\" the unfairness of the US legal system, phoney litigants - in fact, every possible rationalization. Allen reports that there is incredible anti-Americanism in the Vatican, and the sex abuse issue cements the image of US Catholics as troublemakers for the wider church.    Allen frequently cites the statistic that \\"only\\" 1% of priests are abusers, suggesting that priests are no more likely to abuse minors than protestant clergy. However, the real figure for priests is 4% (from the US National Conference of Catholic Bishops), which makes it harder to explain away pedophilia as something that affects all denominations equally, since no other denomination has pedophilia statistics that come anywhere close to 4%.    Allen says his purpose was to help US Catholics understand how things look from the Vatican's perspective in hopes of bridging the divide between the two groups. Yet I was left with the impression that the gap between the US and the Vatican is even wider than anyone would have guessed. At one point Allen quotes a Vatican official who blames the US sex abuse scandal on the Masons and the Jews! If this reflects the thinking at the top of the Church, reconciliation between Rome and the US is hopeless.  Although this book is uneven in style and less-than-rivetting in some places, it's still a must-read for those interested in the Catholic child sex abuse scandal.	2004-08-16
US	50658596	R3A42KPJEVLM9H	1843170841	573774454	Diana in Pursuit of Love	Books	5	17	17	N	N	A superb, level-headed overview of Diana from 1991 onward	Morton combines information from many sources to cover the period from 1991, including her secret collaboration with him on his earlier book, to her death in 1997 plus more recent events such as the Paul Burrell revelations. <br />  <br /> There is a pattern in the books by Wharfe, Burrell, Jephson (all of whom worked closely with her) and this book: All four authors strain to deny that Diana had mental health problems, yet they all portray her as incredibly insecure and emotionally volatile. Morton tells us that she would constantly phone her friends for consolation, as many as twenty(!) times a day in the case of one platonic male friend. Although Morton portrays her mental health as positively as he can, it's hard to avoid the conclusion that Diana was a black hole of emotional neediness. <br />  <br /> However, on the charge of Diana being paranoid, it seems like a classic case of &quot;You're not paranoid - they really are out to get you.&quot; According to Morton, Diana worried about servants going through her mail (they were), servants taking strangers into her bedroom for a fee (they were), and the government tapping her phone lines (they were). Many people associated with Diana reported being followed or having their homes burgled in a way that suggested something other than ordinary criminal activity. An ongoing mystery surrounds the explicit phone conversation between Charles and Camila which was made public, where it appears that a government agency taped the call and then, much later, broadcast it on frequencies monitored by hobbyists. Morton discusses the alleged activities of British secret agencies, but important questions remain unanswered. <br />  <br /> For followers of the events surrounding Diana, this is a must-read, pulling together recent events and sorting rumor from fact, and in particular, offering a level-headed commentary on Paul Burrell.	2004-08-02
US	50658596	R34OB205PL555L	1400034523	77394731	Surrender or Starve: Travels in Ethiopia, Sudan, Somalia, and Eritrea	Books	5	16	20	N	N	Kaplan argues the West is naive about African starvation	Kaplan takes Henry Kissinger's concept of &quot;realpolitik&quot; to another order of magnitude: Kaplan argues that the West has been incredibly naive in obsessing over starving Africans. The theme of his book is that the African elites themselves don't care about starvation among out-of-favor minority groups, and in many instances, such as Ethiopia and Sudan, governments intend starvation to happen. In such cases, foreign aid does not reach the intended recipients and does not win any friends for the West. The book's scope is limited to the countries named in the title. The title is a bit misleading, however, in suggesting that this is a travel narrative. Instead, it is a political analysis, although Kaplan does describe what it is like to visit impoverished, war-torn regions of Sudan and Ethiopia where few journalists dare to tread. <br />  <br /> Eritrea is the one country that receives unabashed, effusive praise from Kaplan. I question whether any nation can be as noble and high-minded as Kaplan portrays the Eritreans, but if there is any truth in his descriptions, Eritrea provides an example of what Africans can accomplish despite war, colonialism, religious diversity, and starvation.	2004-08-02
US	50658596	R2BQ4JH294VISU	061823649X	865354621	Spoken Here: Travels Among Threatened Languages	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The struggle to preserve dying languages	Mark Abley's topic is languages that are on the verge of extinction, and what people are doing to keep these languages alive and vibrant. Not all regions of the world get equal coverage: The author focuses on Canada, Australia, and western Europe. Abley is originally from Montreal, and he approaches the topic with a Canadian perspective that will intrigue some readers but flummox others. For instance, in one incident where a Montreal English-speaking Jewish person and a French-speaking Quebecois argue with each other, some non-Canadian readers might not appreciate the historical antagonism between these groups, each of whom perceives itself as being oppressed by the other.<br />Languages receiving the greatest attention are the aboriginal languages of Canada and Australia, Hebrew, Yiddish, Manx, Welsh, and Provencal. Abley does a good job of discussing linguistics in lay terms, and emphasizes how language structure affects the way we think. The sole drawback is that the book took on a repetitive tone after awhile. In some ways this is a travel narrative, but the emphasis is on the languages themselves and the people trying to keep them alive.	2004-06-22
US	50658596	R3BX5EA8K3ARCI	157912254X	438410058	How to Do It Standing Up: The Friars' Club Guide to Being a Comic, a Cut-Up, a Card, a Character or a Clown	Books	1	6	8	N	N	Life on the comedy club circuit, not a guide to being funny	First of all, what this book is not: It is not about how to be funny, nor is it an analysis of what humour is. The title is blatantly misleading. The book itself is not funny, because these are comedians describing things that happened to them, not attempting to get the reader to laugh.<br />This is a collection of first-person narratives in which comedians reminisce about performing in comedy clubs, especially at the beginning of their careers when they were unknowns. Their stories are surprisingly similar - struggling for stage time, desperate for money, honing their craft, and so on. The stories are repetitive and, after awhile, seem interchangeable. At times the narrators engage in a bit of introspection about why some things are funny and some are not, but one has to search for those analytical moments. To a large extent, these comedians just kind of &quot;wing it&quot; and have trouble articulating why one joke is hilarious while another leads to dead silence.<br />Of the 30-plus comedians interviewed for the book, I've heard of about one third of them. The most famous participants are Richard Belzer, Phyllis Diller, and Lily Tomlin.	2004-06-16
US	50658596	RY4D0KTD6GUQX	1932100083	530480322	Seven Seasons of Buffy: Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers Discuss Their Favorite Television Show (Smart Pop series)	Books	4	17	22	N	N	A readable and thought-provoking series of essays	This collection of 23 essays about BtVS has the advantage of being written after the series finale, allowing a wider scope than similar, earlier books. Although these are (mostly) serious, thoughtful essays, they are written in a more readable, accessible style than &quot;BtVS and Philosphy&quot; by James South, which required a PhD in philosophy to understand.<br />In a book like &quot;Seven Seasons of Buffy,&quot; everyone will have their favorites. One of the best was Zettel's piece, where she argues that the real reason the series went downhill after Season Three was - not because the characters were no longer in high school - but because their role had changed from &quot;outsiders&quot; to &quot;insiders.&quot; In high school part of the appeal was that they had only a hazy notion of the forces against them (e.g., the mayor's plot); it was more difficult to empathize with the characters when they lost that &quot;outsider&quot; role. I also loved Larbalestier's article because, although not cohesive as an essay, she articulates what an utter disaster Season Seven was. This series went downhill fast. (The episode &quot;Empty Places&quot; gets my personal vote for ultimate low point of the series.)  <br />Another great essay was Carter's article about alternate realities in BtVS. Ever notice that &quot;The Wish&quot; (in which we are led to believe that the alternate reality was extinguished when Anyanka lost her powers) is inconsistent with &quot;Doppelgangland&quot; (the alternate reality continues to exist parallel to the &quot;real&quot; reality)?<br />One of the weaker essays was Golden's, in which she complains that the presentation of wicca was unauthentic on BtVS. (Hey, anyone want to write an article about how badly Christianity is portrayed on this series?) I was also unimpressed with Harris's complaint about the good-looks bias in casting, and by Watt-Evans' speculation that Buffy and Wesley would be the ideal couple, and by Aloi's over-the-top rhapsodizing about how beautiful Tara was.	2004-06-11
US	50658596	R1GJWW6GV4E68Y	1556125577	296472711	A Flock of Shepherds: The National Conference of Catholic Bishops	Books	4	3	5	N	N	For the few people who wonder what happens within the NCCB	Of Thomas Reese's three books explaining the inner workings of the Catholic church, this was the least rivetting, and would appeal only to the narrow audience curious about the National Conference of Catholic Bishops (NCCB). Reese covers key personalities of the NCCB, how it has dealt with various controversies, and how it actually functions in practice. Readers unfamiliar with Reese's style ought to begin with his 1989 &quot;Archbishop&quot; or his 1996 &quot;Inside the Vatican.&quot; <br />Reese argues that the NCCB fulfills many important functions and (if the Vatican would loosen the reins) could fulfill many further purposes. Yet, the NCCB's political lobbying has had no impact (e.g., capital punishment and abortion). Questions of doctrine and church practice are decided in Rome, leaving nothing for the NCCB to decide. As an example of a function for which the NCCB is ideal, Reese points to the task of translating the liturgy from Latin into English, but even here the NCCB was overruled by the Vatican, which objected to gender-neutral English and did not appreciate how offensive it is for American ears when &quot;he/him&quot; is used to refer to both genders. <br />For this reader, it's hard to escape the conclusion that the NCCB is an organization in search of a function, in spite of Reese's careful arguments to the contrary.	2004-05-23
US	50658596	RWJZEHLHTZ0V2	1573226998	962216603	The New Men	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Inside the Vatican's "West Point" for new priests	The North American College in Rome is the most prestigious seminary for future priests from the US. I expected the book would focus on the North American College as an organization, but rather it describes six new seminarians during the 1995-96 academic year, going into a great deal of detail about their backgrounds and their spiritual journeys while at the College.<br />It's as though the six came from central casting - the introverted Asian immigrant, the ex-fighter pilot, the homesick farm kid from the prairies, the high-living New Orleans lawyer, and a pair of identical twins. These are a conservative bunch, both in the sense of US politics as well as in terms of accepting traditional church doctrine. Most of them are constantly wrestling with their \\"calling\\" - essentially their turmoil over renouncing sex forever - and the endless pages devoted to their inner ruminations do get tedious after awhile. Despite its flaws, I found the book entertaining to read.<br />I was surprised that two of the six seminarians had ongoing romantic relationships back in the US. The saddest part was when one of the seminarians tells his girlfriend over the phone that it's over, while she genuinely thought his enrollment in seminary was a passing fling. Otherwise, there is nothing here remotely scandalous or shocking.	2004-05-23
US	50658596	R3KUER78YQPL8M	0826413617	668805061	Pope Benedict XVI	Books	4	14	30	N	N	The paradoxes of the 2nd most powerful Catholic official	Joseph Ratzinger, as Prefect (head) of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, is essentially the Vatican's top 'heresy cop' and the most powerful Catholic official other than the Pope. Ratzinger began his career as a liberal theologian, and in 1968 abruptly became an ultraconservative, after Marxist protesters repeatedly invaded his classroom at a German university. Thus we have the paradox of the pre-1968 Ratzinger being diametrically opposed to the post-1968 Ratzinger, who has gone to great lengths to make Catholic doctrine more traditional and to eliminate dissent.<br />This book is largely an analysis of Ratzinger's writings, which is a roundabout way of getting to know someone, and parts of it are rather dry reading. Readers may feel frustration that they are not really getting an intimate sense of what Ratzinger, the man, is like.  Much of the book is devoted to tangents: We learn much about Nazi-Catholic relations, we trace the careers of Ratzinger's favorite students, and we are immersed in the teachings of theologians he has attacked.  Those with an interest in the Vatican's inner workings might prefer \\"Conclave,\\" by the same author, or \\"Inside the Vatican\\" by Thomas Reese, both of which are easier to digest.<br />Despite its dry spells, this book does an excellent job of conveying the enormous gap between official Catholic doctrine versus what lay Catholics really believe. Ratzinger favors a return to the 1950s when the Mass was in Latin, divorce and birth control were unthinkable, and laypeople accepted official teaching out of blind obedience. Ratzinger believes that the Catholic church's purpose is not to see how many people it can attract, but rather to protect the integrity of its doctrine, even if this causes the pews to be empty in the short term. Many mainstream Catholic readers will be surprised at how Ratzinger has intentionally widened the gap between official Vatican doctrine and the beliefs of ordinary Catholics.	2004-05-17
US	50658596	R37RTA37CK0121	0674932617	794933226	Inside the Vatican: The Politics and Organization of the Catholic Church	Books	5	35	40	N	N	Ever wonder what it'd be like to be a Vatican bureaucrat?	Thomas Reese, Jesuit professor and journalist, has carved a very narrow niche for himself as an author, explaining the organizational mechanics of the Catholic church. Most people would find his books to have far too much detail, but there are a few, like me, who are curious about what really happens behind the closed doors of the Catholic administrative apparatus. His 1989 book, &quot;Archbishop,&quot; described how dioceses are run, and &quot;Inside the Vatican&quot; describes how the Vatican functions. What decisions do cardinals actually make? What is it like to be a Vatican ambassador to a foreign country? What is it like to have a career as a Vatican bureaucrat? (One tidbit: No air conditioning!)<br />If these are things you've wondered about, this is the book for you. Reese approaches these things as though he were an anthropologist or a management consultant, with a keen eye for the nuances of interpersonal relationships within the Vatican bureaucracy. My only complaints are that the amount of detail can be overwhelming, and Reese sometimes gets bogged down in a wooden style of writing. It's best to start reading this book in the middle, because the beginning is rather dry. On the other hand, the anecdotes are a strong plus. To give one example, the story of John Paul II reprimanding the Archbishop of Denver to his face creates a mental image that is hard to forget.<br />The last chapter is the most provocative, where Reese suggests reforms that are both logical and unrealistic: He argues that Vatican administrators should not be allowed to become cardinals, which in papal elections would cause a monumental power shift toward those who are in closer touch with the laity. Reese suggests priests play a major role in selecting bishops, as was the case before the 1800s, in contrast to the current practice in which the pope appoints ultraconservative bishops who can't relate to anyone in their diocese.<br />According to Reese, the underlying problem is that the Vatican is more interested in doctrinal purity than keeping people in the church. Meanwhile the laity are voting with their feet, gravitating to pastors who ignore papal instructions, or leaving the church altogether.	2004-04-28
US	50658596	R3137033R2BAI	0385504535	816121868	Conclave: The Politics, Personalities and Process of the Next Papal Election	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Fascinating analysis of the politics of selecting a pope	Anyone with an interest in how the next pope will be selected and the Vatican's internal politics ought to buy this book now, because there will be undoubtedly be a run on it when the critical time arrives. Allen gives us snippets of papal history, describes the procedure for electing a pope, and discusses the underlying politics. (One fascinating tidbit: Did you know that bishops were elected by their priests until the mid-1800s?)  Also, 55 pages serve as a reference manual to the cardinals who will be voting in the next conclave - each cardinal gets at least a paragraph summing up his unique characteristics and doctrinal stance.<br />Some reviewers have accused Allen of being 'liberal' - an accurate label from the sort of Catholic who believes birth control is a sin, but most Catholics will find the author to be quite moderate. The author is not heavy-handed about his doctrinal views, but the book does convey how far typical North American practice has deviated from the pope's clear instructions. For example, according to papal decrees, divorcees must not be given communion, eucharistic ministers can only be used in unusual circumstances, and Catholicism is the only genuine path to God. There is a widening gap between the pope's decrees, which are being ignored with impunity, and ordinary practice.<br />Allen predicts that the College of Cardinals will tilt toward the moderates in the next election, even though John Paul II has appointed almost all of the current cardinals. Time will tell. The Vatican's last remaining shreds of credibility are at stake in the next papal election.	2004-04-26
US	50658596	R2ZQJA8DG6LXGH	1841620742	183369799	North Korea: The Bradt Travel Guide	Books	5	26	28	N	N	A travel guide to the last Stalinist country	No, I haven't been to North Korea, but who has? This was a quirky and fun book for an armchair traveller. The Bradt travel series prides itself on going where Lonely Planet fears to tread - places like Iraq and Kabul - as well as the world's most bizarre country, North Korea. The author briefly mentions how difficult it was to write a travel book where museum employees refuse to give opening hours or phone numbers of their establishments, and where special permits are required to travel from one city to another. I suspect the author could write a second book about what he went through to write this book. <br />Part I consists of 91 pages of background (history, politics, entry documents, etc.), and Part II is about 120 pages of typical travel information regarding hotels (not that you have any choice), restaurants, shopping (hahaha), attractions, and so on. There are 22 color photos, 27 maps, and some black and white drawings. A brief language guide gives translations of such useful phrases as &quot;Yankees are wolves in human shape&quot; - the author does have a sense of humor - as well as more commonplace words and phrases. There is almost nothing here about atrocities or the dire poverty that others have noted. However, the author does coyly mention that it would be pointless to write his book in such a manner that it was banned from being brought into North Korea.	2004-04-05
US	50658596	R29EM8ZNWSWPSY	0415926130	285115616	Neon Metropolis: How Las Vegas Started the Twenty-First Century	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Life behind the Strip	Although the author covers the history of Las Vegas, this book is mainly about its current growing pains. The county's rapid growth has made it impossible for schools and other institutions to keep pace with population, and the social fabric of Las Vegas is frail because so many residents are recent arrivals. Regional planning is a joke because the local government is under the thumb of developers, and no one in government wants to do anything that would raise taxes or raise housing costs. The end result is a place where even a hotel chambermaid can enjoy a pleasant middle-class lifestyle. Rothman, a history professor at UNLV, spices his book with first-person stories, such as how a friendship with a family on the other side of I-15 gradually fell apart as the driving time to visit them became longer and longer. <br />This is a far superior book than Rothman's \\"The Grit Beneath the Glitter,\\" which was a collection of essays. However, the flaw of both books is Rothman's over-the-top praise of organized labor. Granted, unions have provided many Vegas workers with a high standard of living, but it's really hard to believe (as Rothman claims) that employers are grateful to be unionized and grateful for the rule that the union - not the employer - chooses whom to hire. <br />I was surprised that another reviewer criticized Rothman for being an overly optimistic booster, because I thought the tone of the book was rather negative. When I've visited Las Vegas, I've always thought it would be an awful place to live, and Rothman's book confirms my impression. (Of course, Las Vegas residents probably think I'm nuts for living in Saskatchewan.) This would be an excellent book for any tourist who has a serious interest in what happens beyond the strip. <br />Also, many of the pathologies of Las Vegas are coming soon to a city near you. One of the book's more memorable passages is that, based on demographic projections, the future consists of latino service employees waiting on cranky old white people, which is hardly healthy for the fabric of society.	2004-03-01
US	50658596	R2TN7YBYUKW2YL	0312291396	552917503	American Roulette: How I Turned the Odds Upside Down---My Wild Twenty-Five-Year Ride Ripping Off the World's Casinos	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A con man's fascinating tale of ripping off casinos	Whenever a con man writes his memoirs, I always wonder if the reader is being conned too. What are the odds that Marcus has embellished his story to sell more books? In any case, this was a hard book to put down. Richard Marcus claims he earned a good living as a professional casino cheat, and although dealers and security staff frequently caught him and banned him from many casinos, he was never arrested. Marcus worked as part of a team using sleight-of-hand in which low value chips were replaced with high value chips while playing roulette and blackjack. <br />Marcus portrays himself as a sort of honorable gentleman-thief. Even if he can rationalize stealing from casinos, how does he rationalize stealing from other players (another one of his tricks)? The author's low blow was when he framed an innocent player for cheating, leading to the innocent player being taken away in handcuffs. If the author wanted to gain my admiration, he failed miserably, but he has written an entertaining page-turner.	2004-03-01
US	50658596	R1FPG2LE1EGLR7	0815736452	116517868	The Siberian Curse: How Communist Planners Left Russia Out in the Cold	Books	4	11	14	N	N	It's as though the US tried to re-create Cleveland in Alaska	The authors' main theme is that the Soviets' determination to create cities in Siberia has created an albatross that will hold back Russian economic development forever. Most of the cities of Siberia have no economic justification for existence, and by any standard, should not have been created in the first place. Even where there are large mineral or oil deposits, the cost of maintaining huge cities in the Arctic outweighs any possible profit. Getting these people to move to warmer parts of Russia would be beneficial all round, but is difficult due to housing shortages in the more desirable parts of Russia. The authors argue that Russians need to abandon their notion that settlement of Siberia is the destiny of the Russian people and will make Russia an economic powerhouse. <br />If there is a flaw here, it is that the authors keep hammering away at their main point, creating a repetitive tone toward the end of the book. Throughout the book there are short articles from various periodicals in gray boxes, which serve to illustrate the authors' theoretical arguments.	2004-03-01
US	50658596	R5S8AOAE1JCGK	0399151729	162118562	A Royal Duty	Books	5	6	9	N	N	It's rivetting, but isn't the author just a tad creepy?	There is something very creepy about Paul Burrell's attachment to Princess Diana. Burrell abandoned all notions of role and propriety, and Diana erred in converting this servant into a pathetic combination of worshipper and doting puppy dog.<br />In spite of the author's flawed personality, the book is rivetting. We see the whole epic tale from the perspective of someone who was extremely close - too close - to Diana. The book also covers Burrell's trial, in which he appears to have been framed, before the prosectors abruptly dropped all charges. It's hard to believe that the Queen woke up one morning, after Burrell's trial had been front-page news for weeks, and realized \\"Oh, I just remembered a chat with Burrell that will exonerate him.\\" On the other hand, Burrell had lost all objectivity and behaved in a self-destructive way after Diana's death. Apparently he took it upon himself to take Diana's intimate letters home for 'safekeeping,' so that Diana's mother would not shred them - hardly something likely to be in a servant's job description.<br />It is odd that Princes William and Harry have been so negative about this book, because it is extraordinarily positive about Princess Diana, the Queen, and Prince Philip. Burrell praises Diana on every page. Only the Spencer family and Prince Charles come off looking badly. Burrell repeatedly states his admiration and respect for the monarchy, but the book as a whole is a horrible indictment of the monarchy as an institution well past its sell-by date.	2003-11-12
US	50658596	RQ0EYN3LD6YXG	1854142097	420343617	London's Local Railways	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A detailed history of London's commuter train lines	This thick volume covers suburban commuter rail lines emanating from London. Some of these were later absorbed into the London Underground ('subway' to Americans), but coverage of subway lines is incidental to the main topic. The book is arranged in a logical, geographic sequence, starting with Greenwich and working its way clockwise around London, ending with the Docklands. Each of 48 branches gets an average of nine pages each, covering why it was built, station design, operating peculiarities, and why the line prospered (or did not prosper). The amount of detail is impressive and often overwhelming. <br />This is the perfect book for the railfan who wants to explore obscure London commuter branches. There are at least 200 maps and period b&amp;w photos, or roughly one for every two pages.	2003-11-03
US	50658596	R1EWXFEZN4W9Y2	1854141511	523650533	Rails Through the Clay	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The ultimate history of London's deep-level tubes	When speaking of the Underground ('subway' to Americans), Londoners distinguish between the cut-and-cover lines such as the Metropolitan and Circle Lines, which were built just below street level to handle mainline-size trains, as opposed to the deep-level tubes, in which small-profile trains travel through tight tunnels with only a few inches to spare. This book is the ultimate history of London's deep-level tubes, such as the Northern, Piccadilly, Central, and Victoria Lines.<br />After some historical introductory material, the authors begin with the first tube train in 1890, which today functions as part of the Northern Line. Every aspect of the history of this system is discussed in detail, including rolling stock, station design, political issues, finances, planning decisions, and accidents. The book is arranged in chronological order, with approximately 200 b&amp;w photos and diagrams. To give some idea of the book's span of coverage, the Jubilee extension through Canary Wharf is discussed, but hadn't opened at the time the book was written. I thought this book was superb, but the enormous amount of detail is suitable only for the dedicated subway fan.	2003-11-02
US	50658596	R1C92R45G95RMF	075092585X	802804467	Underground to Everywhere: London's Underground Railway in the Life of the Capital	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A sweeping history of all aspects of the Underground	This is a sweeping, wide ranging history of the London Underground ('subway' to Americans), covering everything from station design to municipal politics to the choice of font for official signs. Halliday discusses how the development of London has affected the subway, and vice versa. One example will suffice: Many know that London's black population is centered in the neighborhood of Brixton, but few know the reason - a Brixton-area subway station, on which construction had stalled, was used as emergency housing for immigrants from the Caribbean after WWII. <br />The eight chapters cover: (1) steam era subways of the 1800s, (2) early electric deep-level tubes, beginning in 1890, (3) the Yerkes era (US entrepreneur takes over the system, 1901-05), (4) the Ashford era (1907-1948), (5) Metroland (subway-oriented suburbs north of London), (6) the artistic and architectural heritage of the system, (7) the two world wars, and (8) the post-WWII era up to 2000. Developments after 2000, such as the 'Public Private Partnerships,' are treated only in a two-paragraph Postscript. There are approximately 70 b&amp;w photos and diagrams, plus eight pages of color illustrations.	2003-10-22
US	50658596	R2TP06P6VTTY4Q	1854108727	295349758	Down the Tube: The Battle for London's Underground	Books	3	3	3	N	N	The arcane world of financing London mass transit	London's Underground (what Americans call the 'subway') is an utter catastrophe. The system, dating back to 1863, is in a state of collapse while handling crowds for which it was never designed, and the government wants to reinvigorate it on the cheap, without spending the extraordinary amounts of money that are necessary. Supposedly the magic solution is the PPP (Public Private Partnership) in which segments of the system will be operated on a contractual basis by private companies - in short, the quasi-privatization of London's subway. This has been supported by both Conservative and Labour Party governments, in spite of Britain's disastrous experience privatizing 'mainline' (i.e., commuter and long distance) railways.<br />Most of the book focuses on the political aspects of the London subway, and the machinations among transit administrators, municipal government, and the national government. Unfortunately, there is not a single map, diagram, or chart in the entire book. <br />The main thrust of the book is explaining the PPP concept. Christian Wolmar strives to be open-minded but concludes that the PPP formula will end in chaos. Wolmar tries - he really tries - to make PPPs interesting and understandable, and brings eloquence and talent to the task. For instance, the first chapter takes us through an ordinary day in a typical subway station, to illustrate how complex it is to keep the system operating. But try as he might, there is no way to turn arcane issues of government finance into a page-turner.	2003-10-17
US	50658596	R12JBEAP86WU12	0385424345	137433229	Edge City: Life on the New Frontier (Anchor Books)	Books	5	17	25	N	N	Why suburban sprawl is inevitable - say goodbye to downtown	Although this book is over a decade old, it is still a classic on why suburban sprawl is unstoppable, and why those trying to recreate 1920s-style downtowns are doomed to failure. The author is somewhat sympathetic to new urbanists, preservationists, and advocates of mass transit, but he believes that they're overlooking some basic facts: First, Americans will always be motorists. Even if oil becomes expensive, alternative fuels will arise and the car will always be ubiquitous. No one really wants to stand in the pouring rain to board a bus filled with smelly street people and other lowlifes. Second, Americans refuse to walk more than 600 feet, not coincidentally the distance between anchor stores in a large mall. Garreau laments how sterile suburbia has become but argues it is impossible to turn the clock back to the heyday of the American downtown.<br />There is at least a chapter on each of New Jersey, Boston, Detroit, Atlanta, Phoenix, Texas, LA, San Francisco, and Washington, DC. There are only 2 photos and 10 maps; more illustrations would have helped. Over 70 pages cover the conflict between preservationists and a developer named Til Hazel regarding the Manassas (Va.) battlefield. The developer is portrayed, not as an unethical monster, but as a salt-of-the-earth entrepreneur who is genuinely mystified why people would be against progress, and mystified why people romanticize past eras in which the standard of living was so dismal<br />The greatest flaw is the author's wordiness. Time and time again, he bludgeons the reader with repetition and paraphrases, to make sure no one misses his point. It's as though his motto is never to use one sentence when five will do. There is not enough brevity, and he tends to repeat himself (like I am doing right now - isn't it irritating?).	2003-10-16
US	50658596	R2KWMX1I0Y3GI1	0618134247	245124319	Dark Star Safari: Overland from Cairo to Cape Town	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Cairo to Cape, with a scathing commentary along the way	Fans of travel narratives are well acquainted with Theroux's style - he talks about how much he loves travel, yet is generally negative about the places he visits and the people he meets. This book is true to form, and followers of the author's career will appreciate the personal significance of this latest journey, overland from Cairo to Capetown: On the eve of his 60th birthday, Theroux is searching for nostalgia and wondering if reports of the collapse of Africa are accurate. <br />As he travels the length of Africa, taking trains whenever possible, Theroux marvels at how Africans seem incapable of maintaining anything or running any organization efficiently. There is no way to put a politically correct spin on his conclusions: In Theroux's view, any progress beyond subsistence agriculture is due to outsiders (colonists, aid groups, or the entrepreneurial class from India), and once they leave, everything collapses. The Africans respond that their problems are due to a lack of money, but Theroux observes that it doesn't take any money to sweep the litter out of a building. These woes afflict every country he visits, regardless of how deeply affected it was by colonialism and regardless of what ideological path it has taken since independence. Only in Uganda and South Africa does Theroux express optimism that things are improving. And on top of it all, there is AIDS, which has infected over half the population in some countries. <br />Theroux talks about his affection for the African people, but no matter how you look at it, the book is a damning commentary on Africa and Africans. It's even more sobering to realize he visited the relatively stable portions of Africa. What would Theroux have said about Liberia, Sierra Leone, or Angola?	2003-10-05
US	50658596	RTC7M955EWKEZ	1578064880	623707066	No Place Like Home: A Black Briton's Journey Through the American South	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Black Brit follows the path of the US Freedom Riders	Gary Younge is a black Englishman who decides to travel through the US South by bus, following the path of the 1961 Freedom Riders, who did such things as having their black participants use white-only restrooms in an effort to spur civil rights reforms. The Freedom Riders were key players in the US civil rights movement, and some of them were beaten or even murdered. Younge wanted to retrace their steps in 1997 to see if there was anything that would resonate with him as a British black man.<br />The book is successful on several levels: As a travelogue, as a history of the civil rights movement, and as an introduction to the South for the non-US reader. (A blunt hint from Younge to non-US readers: Avoid long-distance bus trips.) <br />To my surprise, Younge was generally positive about the US, despite some instances when he's exposed to modern racism, such as being turned away from an empty motel. Although racism lingers, Younge seems impressed that the US has dealt with its sordid past of racial oppression in a more constructive manner than Britain has. He marvels that US blacks can salute the flag and be patriotic without feeling hypocritical, whereas he, as a British black, finds it impossible to salute the Union Jack or to feel patriotism as a Brit. All in all, it's a fascinating treatment of the American South and its complicated history of race relations.	2003-09-23
US	50658596	R2LZ43HUF40MO4	1888125209	774981823	EXTREME CONDITIONS: Big Oil and the Transformation of Alaska	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The seamy side of Alaska's state government	Strohmeyer discusses the impact of the Alaskan oil boom on its state government and on its aboriginal peoples (Indians and others), covering the 1930s to 1992. There is also a brief 4-page epilogue dated '2003.' As other reviewers have pointed out, Strohmeyer approaches this from a pro-environmentalist, liberal perspective, but he's not a foaming-at-the-mouth leftist. For example, at times he shows empathy for the oil companies, and at times he's highly critical of unions, aboriginal organizations, and municipal governments under aboriginal control. All things considered, it's a well-written, thoughtful, and comprehensive documentation of how oil affected Alaskan politics.<br />The author's theme is that the oil boom caused backroom deals and frivolous spending by the state government. However, any state government has similar dirty linen to hide, and I think Strohmeyer would have found the same anywhere, in both rich and poor states.<br />Three of the 20 chapters are devoted to the 1989 oil spill by the Exxon Valdez, in which Exxon is portrayed as the villain. Yet, Strohmeyer's own description shows that the state government and the Coast Guard made things worse through bureaucratic bungling. What Strohmeyer neglects to mention is that Exxon had been forced to keep the Valdez's captain in place, despite his history of alcoholism, because his 'disability' caused him to be protected under anti-discrimination legislation. Exxon deserves much of the blame for the spill, but there's enough blame for everyone to share, including every Alaskan who has benefited from the oil windfall. Would Alaskans have wanted double-hulled ships even if it meant much lower Permanent Fund payments?<br />There is a paradox here: The essence of political conservatism is that the public sector should be minimal because governments are always inefficient. By documenting how the Alaskan government squandered oil revenue (both political parties must share the blame), Strohmeyer has inadvertently made the conservative case that government should be as minimally involved in society as possible.	2003-08-13
US	50658596	R33ZK4BFTU8669	0882405241	340021004	Johnny's Girl: A Daughter's Memoir of Growing Up In Alaska's Underworld	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Not exactly the parents from the Brady Bunch	Kim Rich, who grew up in Anchorage during the 60s and 70s, had the parents from hell: Mom was a prostitute who ended her years in a mental hospital, and dad was an operator of illegal gambling joints who was eventually murdered due to a dispute over ownership of a massage parlor. Her parents tried to create the facade of a respectable middle-class family when Kim was a child, but all for naught; Kim imparts such experiences as being mistaken by the police for a prostitute, at age 13,  when they raided her house. <br />I sense writing the book was an act of therapy for the author, who was trying to reconcile the fact that although her parents loved her, they were, at the core, bad people. It is deeply moving to see how the author struggled to have a  normal childhood and normal teenage years despite the underworld characters who surrounded her and the emotional baggage her parents saddled her with. This well-written, articulate book is also a portrayal of what Anchorage, Alaska, was like during the 60s and 70s.	2003-08-07
US	50658596	R1D81VVG3YF9RE	0753506319	191357889	Slayer: An Expanded and Updated Unofficial and Unauthorized Guide to Buffy the Vampire Slayer	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A British perspective on the Buffyverse	Each episode, up to and including season 5, gets 3-to-6 pages of coverage, organized under various thematic headings: Plot summary, music, memorable quotes, comments on the women's clothing, continuity errors, logic flaws, pop culture references, etc. Books of this nature are enjoyable because it's fun to compare one's reaction with the author's reaction, and Topping notices every tiny detail. <br />There are also separate essays: (1) History of the vampire myth, (2) 'The Outsiders' as a series theme, (3) BtVS and real-life school violence, (4) BtVS and the internet, and (5) disputes with the TV networks. As well, each BtVS novel gets about a page of coverage.<br />This differs from other BtVS books because of Topping's perspective as a Brit. He's a bit thin-skinned about the anti-British jibes, especially Principal Flutie's snide remark about the royal family in the second episode (Flutie was right!). On the other hand, Topping sees connections between BtVS and US culture with an objectivity that US viewers lack. Apart from the vampires, Sunnydale is a bit too perfect to be realistic, and it's certainly bizarre that a southern California town would be so lily-white. It is only in the 7th season (beyond the scope of this book) that we see a recurring black character (Principal Wood) and a recurring hispanic character (Iyari Limon as 'Kennedy'). Topping notes that (white) Americans often see themselves as decent people, perhaps overly trusting, fighting off non-white underclass intruders who seek to ruin their caucasian paradise. See the connection? Does the shoe fit?	2003-07-20
US	50658596	R105PEZAA7LKMF	0753507382	229112806	Slayer: The Next Generation	Books	5	13	13	N	N	The author of 'Slayer' provides a 6th season update	For those who liked Keith Topping's British perspective in his earlier 'Slayer' volume, here is an update. This book covers only the 6th season - Buffy's resurrection, the Trioka, the musical, Willow-as-evil, etc. Each episode receives 5-to-8 pages of coverage, organized under various thematic headings: Plot summary, music, memorable quotes, comments on the women's clothing, continuity errors, logic flaws, pop culture references, etc. Topping seems to have caught everything, down to the tiniest continuity error.<br />There are also separate essays on (1) series creator Joss Whedon, (2) the network switch to UPN, (3) an update on BtVS novels (about a paragraph on each), (4) an update on BtVS and the internet, and (5) predictions for the 7th season, which was the last season of this underappreciated series that never gained the viewership it deserved.	2003-07-05
US	50658596	R8M7PYOZ01BA2	0609803425	887176272	Buffy Chronicles : The Unofficial  Companion to Buffy the Vampire Slayer	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Explores the historical background behind BtVS episodes	Genge's book covers the first two seasons of BtVS. For each episode, there is a short description consisting of a few sentences, followed by an essay related (often tangentially) to the episode topic. A few examples:<br />'The Pack' - The author argues that historically, witches were considered to be satanists, however unfashionable that argument might be today.<BR>'I Robot' - an essay about real-life techopagans and the internet.<BR>'Nightmares' - an essay about out-of-body experiences from the perspective of medical science.<BR>'Some Assembly Required' - about 19th century grave-robbers in Britain.<BR>'Halloween' - The author explains how Halloween, as we know it, actually began in the 1930s in the US!<br />These essays are often interesting background material. However, readers will be severely disappointed if they're looking for a description of plots, character development, or the symbolism underlying the episodes. An additional difficulty is that the BtVS writers have played fast and loose with historical authenticity (to the extent that monsters have any historical roots at all). Just as Star Trek is a poor vehicle for learning about physics, BtVS does not hold up very well when treated as a documentary about medieval folklore and mythology.	2003-05-18
US	50658596	R3427RK6WD4IHI	0812695313	862654055	Buffy the Vampire Slayer and Philosophy: Fear and Trembling in Sunnydale (Popular Culture and Philosophy, Vol. 4)	Books	2	49	60	N	N	Strange and offputting	Dracula once said to Xander, 'You are strange and offputting,' and the same sentiment could be applied to this book. It is essentially written by philosophy professors for other philosophy professors who happen to be Buffy fans. After reading this book, any fan will gain a new appreciation for the depth of the writing in BtVS, but be forewarned: This is rough slogging. Among the 22 articles, some writers use BtVS to introduce the reader to philosophical concepts, but many of the writers assume they can throw around philosophers' names and that the reader will already be well-versed in the history of philosophy.<br />With such a heterogenous series of articles, inevitably each reader will have different favorites. I liked Hibbs' essay which compares BtVS to the 'noir' tradition in film, and Aberdein's article which uses BtVS to illustrate the argument between classicists versus scientists.<br />My least favorite was Marinucci's feminist critique of BtVS. One would think that the series is a feminist's dream come true, with its female hero, powerful lesbian characters, absentee fathers, and considering that almost all the men are either villains or weak sidekicks. Yet, whereas most viewers see Buffy's clever witticisms as proof of a sharp mind and self-confidence,  Marinucci sees sexism and patriarchical oppression. This sentiment is also echoed in the essay by Levine & Schneider, who oddly enough, seem to dislike the series - one wonders how they sat through enough episodes that they were able to discuss their dislike in such detail.	2003-05-04
US	50658596	R2FUE9BDTFW488	1550225405	729042759	Bite Me!: An Unofficial Guide to the World of Buffy the Vampire Slayer	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The best book about the Buffyverse	This is the best all-round book on the most underappreciated series on television. I wonder how many people channel-surf through Buffy without realizing how witty the dialogue and how profound the symbolism; there is so much here that goes beyond a scantily clad teenager fighting mythical creatures.  <br />In its 425 pages, Nikki Stafford's guide includes 86 pages of cast biographies, 188 pages of Buffy episode commentaries (through Season Six, to May 2002), and 52 pages of Angel episode commentaries (through Season Three, to May 2002). I enjoy the author's opinions about which episodes are better than others, plot inconsistencies, and character development (or lack thereof). The author is unduly harsh toward the characters of Dawn and Joyce (the mother), but then again the author's personal spin is part of the charm of the book. Some reviewers were unhappy about this book because the author highlights plot inconsistencies, but this is all done in the spirit of fan-dom, and I think the people behind the series would find the book flattering. All that's missing are examples of the witty dialogue, but I'm guessing that copyright issues prevented the author from quoting actual scripts. The weak spot of the book is the pages devoted to fan parties and 'famous fans' - hardly of interest to the rest of us.	2003-03-04
US	50658596	R246Q4Y0V3IJXY	046501299X	217143369	Computers Of Star Trek	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Too much computer science, not enough Star Trek	The authors had to decide what the balance would be between computer science content and Star Trek content. Unfortunately, they erred on the side of too many overlong explanations of computer science, which the reader must wade through to get to those too-sparse nuggets of insight about Star Trek. For example, the Borg get only six pages, and the Holodeck gets eight pages (including several pages of programming code!). <br />The writers are at their best when explaining how each Star Trek series is a commentary on the era in which it was written. For instance, there are several episodes where Kirk rants that computers can never replace people - a very 1960s sentiment - whereas in the more recent series, the Borg represent our fears that technology will lead to loss of individuality. More analysis along these lines would have improved the book, rather making it a primer on programming.<br />Perhaps it's impossible to ever make sense of computers in Star Trek, since so much of it is technological nonsense (e.g., food replicators). Nevertheless, there was a missed opportunity here to speculate more deeply on the role of information technology in the world of Star Trek as compared to its role in current society.	2003-02-22
US	50658596	R1L8B0RIFRMKUV	0375507086	238592866	Too Close to Call: The Thirty-Six-Day Battle to Decide the 2000 Election	Books	5	57	66	N	N	A liberal author rips into Al Gore	Toobin is famous for his pro-Democratic sympathies, but what makes this book tolerable to conservatives (like me) is his unrelenting loathing of Gore as spineless and milquetoast, and his grudging admiration for the GOP's no-holds-barred tactics. Toobin covers the events from election night to the unofficial non-partisan tabulation released in November 2001. Although he does an excellent job of explaining the incredibly complicated series of events, Toobin makes no effort to be neutral and doesn't hold back from labeling people as spineless, incompetent, or ruthless. He explains how some judges in the lower-level Florida judiciary were in over their heads, and although Democrats, did Gore great harm, while other minor judges rose to the occasion and demonstrated impressive leadership. According to Toobin, the Palm Beach &quot;butterfly ballot&quot; fiasco was not nearly important as the Democrats' decision not to challenge the massive numbers of improper absentee ballots.<br />Toobin's theme is that while Gore focused on managing the process in a statesmanlike way, the GOP concentrated on winning at any cost. According to this author, Clinton said he would have declared victory, played the race card, fought the inclusion of the controversial military ballots, and encouraged mass protests in the streets. One wonders where such an approach would have led.<br />The author's harshest criticism is reserved for the US Supreme Court, where Rehnquist and his allies abused their power and behaved as unscrupulous political hacks. Even conservatives find it difficult to defend Rehnquist's action that stopped the statewide recount. Ironically, later examination of the ballots showed that the statewide recount would have ended in Bush's favor anyway, and all Rehnquist's intervention accomplished was to taint the (already dubious) legitimacy of Bush's victory. <br />Toobin reminds us that a non-partisan consortium that examined every ballot discovered that under any criterion ofdefining what constituted a valid vote, Gore would have won the election (although not under the rules imposed by the Florida Supreme Court for the statewide recount, which limited the recount to ballots already deemed questionable). In an ideal world, Gore deserved to win the Florida vote count and hence the presidency, but no voting system can hold up when an election comes down to roughly a hundred votes in a nation of a quarter-billion people. Toobin blames the ruthlessness of the Republicans and the spinelessness of Al Gore for what happened.	2003-01-04
US	50658596	R2ZCJCJADMTONV	0743204735	660154931	Bush at War	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Who would have guessed that Bush was a hands-on policy wonk?	The main body of this book covers the period from 9-11 to the fall of Kabul in December 2001. However, the best part is the forty-page Epilogue, which covers Powell's being forced to make an ill-advised trip to mediate the Palestinian crisis, as well as the internal dynamics of the administration's decision to invade Iraq. <br />In this book, Woodward gives the reader a thorough grasp of the interpersonal relations at the top rung of the Bush administration. Much of the book focuses on the \\"Principals' Committee,\\" consisting of Bush, Cheney, Rumsfeld, Rice, Powell, and others. Cheney and Rumsfeld are loosely allied with each other. Powell is out of synch with the others' hawkish orientation and is increasing isolated - in his case, being Secretary of State doesn't count for much. I had always thought highly of Condoleeza Rice, but in this book she comes across as smarmy and sycophantic. In one situation, Bush asks her for her opinion, but she told Woodward she didn't know how to respond because she didn't already know Bush's preference.<br />Bush comes across as a hands-on policy wonk, the complete opposite of the \\"doofus-cowboy\\" persona often attributed to him. If this book had been written by anyone else, it would be seen as a whitewash, but let's not forget that this author is the Bob Woodward, well known for his liberal politics, who brought down the Nixon administration.<br />Be forewarned that Woodward's writing style is not for everyone. Some reviewers were unhappy about the lack of analysis, but in most of his books, Woodward's style is to report who said what, and leave the analysis to each reader. Woodward never uses direct quotes unless he's absolutely sure of the exact wording, and instead relies on paraphrases. The end result can be a bit bland and yes, even boring at times - look elsewhere for snappy dialogue. But after finishing the book, I felt I had been in the room when the key decisions were made.	2003-01-01
US	50658596	R1JYOREUGID7TZ	0330331590	193234449	L.A. Lore: A Scintillating Exploration of Los Angeles	Books	5	7	7	N	N	L.A. in all its complexity from a sympathetic Brit	Outsiders perceive L.A. as a hellhole of endless sprawl, smog, and high crime, emblematic of the U.S. at its worst. Stephen Brook moved to L.A. long enough to really get to know the city and all of its complexity. He's a Brit, but never falls into the trap of arrogant Yank-bashing, as so many British travel writers do when they visit the U.S.  It's refreshing that Brook is a writer who actually likes L.A., so we experience the city through the eyes of a British newcomer who enjoys being there and accents the positive where he can. However, Brook is not blind to the negative elements; he gives ample coverage to the gang problem, the abuses by LAPD, and Black-Korean friction. He discusses the perceived failure of the public school system, but also interviews teachers who have dedicated their careers to providing a quality education. Brook takes us through the various suburban communities, explaining how each has its own unique character. At the end of the book, I felt I understood the fabric of the city in a way no tourist does, and now I can't wait to re-visit L.A.	2002-12-20
US	50658596	R1A19ZUZGHQYUT	0966410076	739549691	You Are Being Lied To: The Disinformation Guide to Media Distortion, Historical Whitewashes and Cultural Myths	Books	1	48	82	N	N	Conspiracy tales from the fringe	I bought this book because, while browsing in a bookstore, I was fascinated by the article \\"AA Lies,\\" which persuasively argues that in controlled experiments, AA was found to be the worst possible treatment for alcoholism, and in fact was worse than doing nothing at all! Alas, that was the high point of the book. The other articles range all over the landscape, many of them reflecting (for lack of a more scientific label) nutcase conspiracy theories.<br />The theme, to the extent that there is one, is that we should not trust the mainstream media because they have their own agendas and biases. Okay, fair enough - but there is even less reason to trust these articles from an unknown editor and unknown publisher. The editor's argument is, if I may paraphrase, \\"Don't trust CNN or The New York Times. Trust me instead.\\"<br />There are some very strange things in this book: Golly, I didn't know that the Bush family played a role in the assassination attempt on Reagan (p. 98), although the argument is based on innuendo and coincidence. I hadn't realized that the US government knew about the Oklahoma City bombing in advance, but allowed it to occur so as to justify a crackdown on dissidents (pp. 142 and 159). There is a defense of photographing nude children (pp. 172-5) and a defense of child molestation (pp. 196-200). I didn't know the publishers of \\"Consumers Reports\\" were a communist front group (p. 228), or that Al Gore Sr. was linked to the Soviets (p. 229). And how many people would have guessed that AIDS was a US bioweapon that got out of control (p. 230)?  And yet, there are also some very serious works of journalism by serious researchers who are probably kicking themselves when they see what other articles are in the same book.<br />An article by one Ali Abunimah argues that the threat of middle eastern terrorists has been exaggerated, and the much greater threat comes from Latin American and homegrown white supremacists. After this book was published, 9-11 happened, which proves Mr. Abunimah's article to be downright false. Yet this is the book we are supposed to trust above the mainstream media?	2002-12-16
US	50658596	R2FJQ4WQAOTOP1	1568982836	381563869	The Baltimore Rowhouse	Books	4	21	21	N	N	Well-written treatment of a highly specialized topic	The rowhouse is far more common in Baltimore than other US cities, and these authors have documented its history and development up to the present day. Every nuance of design change is thoroughly discussed, and the amount of detail allows a street-by-street discussion at times. We're told about the various developers who, parcel by parcel, converted old elite estates into street grids covered with rowhouses of varying quality. The book ends as an advertisement for new urbanism, in which dilapidated old rowhouses are renovated and run-down neighborhoods undergo renewal. <br />The quality of writing is particularly high. There are approximately 140 b&amp;w photos, which for the most part are grouped together so they can be printed on high-gloss paper. This is an awkward arrangement that requires the reader to flip back and forth to the glossy photo pages. There are approximately ten cross-sections and floor plans. There are very few maps, and a detailed knowledge of Baltimore geography is assumed. Because of the highly specialized nature of this book, it is unlikely to appeal to anyone outside Baltimore, but it would probably be a delight to architectural enthusiasts within the city.	2002-12-12
US	50658596	R1WJ51AXLNVGGZ	0679738061	671438089	City of Quartz: Excavating the Future in Los Angeles	Books	3	21	25	N	N	A political analysis of LA in the 70s and 80s	The spirit of the book is symbolized by the cover photo - a stunning but unusual high rise that upon closer examination turns out to be a high rise prison.<br />Although Davis is a leftist, he usually refrains from emotional rants, although it's safe to say he never met a person in a position of power that he liked. In any event, the excesses of LAPD have been too extreme for even an ardent conservative to defend. While outsiders think of LA as a bastion of liberalism, Davis describes how every aspect of the city is riddled by hypocrisy as Angelenos pursue selfish (and often racist) goals behind a facade of liberal rhetoric. The greatest flaw of this 1990 book is that its discussion of politics, focusing on the 70s and 80s, has become severely dated.<br />The seven chapters cover: (1) A history of LA intellectual thought, (2) evolution of the business elite from the 1840s to the 1980s, (3) the role of homeowners' associations as de facto municipal governments and their role of keeping renters and non-whites bottled up in certain neighborhoods, (4) the obsession with crime and how it has exacerbated anti-pedestrian design approaches, (5) the war between the LAPD and Black gangs, (6) internal politics of the Catholic church, and (7) history of the blue collar suburb of Fontana, tracing its evolution from farming community to steel-milltown to rustbelt.	2002-12-06
US	50658596	RHNEW3H0V9MFG	0816635846	96490938	Fin de Millnaire Budapest: Metamorphoses of Urban Life	Books	2	1	6	N	N	A scholarly survey of housing privatization in Budapest	From an architectural standpoint, Budapest is one of the world's most beautiful cities, and the fall of Communism has forced the city to endure a painful transition to a free-market economy. For most of the population, it has not been an easy ride. Bodnar, herself Hungarian, discusses such topics as the privatization of state-owned housing and the resulting inequities. She describes the uneven way in which the private sector has renovated historic buildings. Another chapter is devoted to Moscow Square, which mirrors the fall of Communism as it fills up with beggars, illegal immigrants, and pedlars. Shopping malls, gated communities in the suburbs, and the privatization of movie theaters are other topics that also receive detailed attention.<br />I'm reluctant to criticize a book like this where the author has put her heart and soul into a topic that is dear to her. But be forewarned that this is a scholarly, academic study, including the application of statistical regression, that is unlikely to appeal to most readers.	2002-11-28
US	50658596	R8NHR1PECIOZS	0349116067	384816814	The United Burger States of America	Books	1	8	8	N	N	This mix of silliness and venom doesn't quite gel	Peter Biddlecombe has entertained many readers with his amusing travelogues about business travels to the far corners of the globe. Since he has already covered even the most obscure countries, it was inevitable that he would turn his attention to the United States. Biddlecombe's unifying theme of comparing the US to a hamburger just doesn't gel. Nevertheless, he has travelled to every state and almost every state capital, including obscure ones like Bismarck and Dover. State by state, Biddlecombe walks the reader through the US, giving us his quirky British perspective on each state and its cities. <br />But this is not the silly lighthearted writer of previous volumes. When Biddlecombe writes about the US, he displays an anger and a bitterness that only rarely has popped up in his earlier books. He can't resist criticizing the US for its history and its current foreign policy at every turn. <br />Many of Biddlecombe's attempts at silliness are hard to catch. There are clever oblique swipes at Gore and Clinton that do not refer to them by name. Such humor is hard to catch and will be totally baffling to readers five years from now. More jarring are his factual errors: Biddlecombe should note that Lincoln was not shot at an opera, Pennsylvania did not join the Confederacy (which Britain supported, incidentally), the main rail route into Pittsburgh was not funded by the federal government, and in his puzzlement that the first shots of the Civil War did not occur in Massachusetts, the author has confused the Civil War with the Revolution. Even more disturbing is that Biddlecombe repeats the leftist myth that the US bombed Hiroshima *after* Japan surrendered due to some sort of evil American sadism. <br />In previous volumes, even when writing about genocidal third-world kleptocracies disolving into anarchy, Biddlecombe has maintained a healthy balance between humor and insightful analysis. The US deserves as much.	2002-10-22
US	50658596	R3OE3ONODTIIFQ	1843170051	878366778	Diana: Closely Guarded Secret	Books	5	67	71	N	N	Perhaps the best of the Diana books	Of the various Diana tell-all books that have come out, this may be the best, with the added advantage that the passage of time gives some historical perspective. Inspector Ken Wharfe was a police officer assigned as 'personal protection officer' to Princess Diana's sons, and later to Diana herself, from 1986 to 1997. He left that post following a nasty argument with Diana over, of all things, whether Diana could park in a no-parking zone when she wanted to buy some CDs.<br />The book operates on two levels, both as a chronicle of crucial events in Diana's bumpy personal and professional life from a relatively objective angle, as well as insight into how the London police protect the royal family. For most of the book, Wharfe is highly positive about Diana, describing her uncanny knack for relating to the needy, and he is critical of Charles. The author argues that tales of her being psychotic are highly exaggerated. Despite his spirited defense of Diana's mental health, one gets the impression that this was an extremely unstable woman with whom no one could maintain a normal professional or personal relationship. It seems every anecdote involves avoiding her angry outbursts or assuaging her fragile ego.<br />This perspective on Diana's life was spellbinding, but I was even more fascinated by the insight into how the London police protect the royals. 'Protection officers' are expected to get close on a personal level to their protectees in order to gain their trust - an approach fraught with problems. Wharfe describes engaging in horseplay with Diana's sons, becoming essentially a surrogate father to them and a sort of platonic-husband figure to Diana. Although Wharfe sneers at the US Secret Service, the London police could do worse than to emulate their more emotionally detached approach to personal protection.	2002-10-10
US	50658596	R19LHXI2MVKCUH	0385488718	374237140	Serpent in Paradise	Books	5	42	44	N	N	A flawed writer investigates a society in its death throes	Dea Birkett became obsessed with Pitcairn Island, populated with 37 descendants of the 'Mutiny on the Bounty.' It has neither phones, nor a landing strip, nor even a harbor, so just getting there was a tale of perseverance in itself. Birkett thought she was going to a tropical paradise, but after three months, she began to fear for her physical safety.<br />As other reviewers have pointed out, Birkett is, to put it mildly, a severely flawed person. She lied to get a visitor's permit, although her charade was so transparent, it's hard to believe she fooled anyone on Pitcairn. More serious was her habit of habitually lying and the conflict this created with Irma, her host/employer/landlady. Yet unfathomably, Birkett tells the truth about having sex with the island's sole policeman, a married man. Does she not care how this will affect his family when her book is published? Birkett is clueless about how badly she comes across to the reader.<br />But she is on target in revealing that this isolated island of 37 people is no paradise. She correctly discovers that violent crime is a problem, and that law enforcement is nonexistent because even the island cop is concerned about retribution from anyone he arrests. Birkett herself eventually concludes her life is in danger. It is noteworthy that in late 2001, the British government announced it was prosecuting a large component of Pitcairn's male population for the widespread practice of adult males engaging in sex with female children. The Pitcairnese do not deny the allegations, but instead claim the British are insensitive to their unique cultural practices(!). The resulting trials may very well lead to the end of this society, which now appears to have been too isolated and too tight-knit for its own good. Birkett is a very flawed observer, but her book has a prophetic quality about it, knowing what we now know about how pathological this supposed 'island paradise' actually is. The end result is a travel narrative that is a fascinating page-turner, about a society that probably won't exist five years from now.	2002-09-02
US	50658596	R1K5FL8MW7HMOQ	0609809636	121244280	Justice: Crimes, Trials, and Punishments	Books	2	7	9	N	N	OJ, OJ, and still more OJ	Dunne's approach is to size up each person he encounters and either vouch for that person's good character or to engage in broad-gauge character assassination. He either likes you or he doesn't. Dunne never met a cop or prosecutor he didn't like, and Dunne never considers the possibility that inept cops arrested the wrong guy.<br />The glaring exception to Dunne's principle that the defendant is always guilty is the Safra murder in Monaco, where the defendant was an American male nurse who, in Dunne's opinion, was railroaded by incompetent or corrupt Monegasque cops and prosecutors. Yet in the February 2003 issue of Vanity Fair magazine, published after this book, Dunne does a 180-degree turn and talks about how, once the trial began, it was obvious that the male nurse was guilty. One might hope that Dunne would get a dose of humility from this experience, but it's not likely. Dunne is always 100% sure he is right and everyone else is wrong. <br />Dunne's unquestioning support of all cops, good and bad, is most apparent in his unwavering friendship with Mark Fuhrman, the detective who played the pivotal role in the O.J. Simpson trial, and who was found to have perjured himself regarding whether he had ever used the 'n-word.' Granted, lying about such a thing is not equal to murder, but Dunne doesn't grasp how damaging Fuhrman's perjury was to the prosecution's case. When a detective lies about a small thing, it is logical that he should not be trusted about larger things. Dunne just doesn't get it. That Fuhrman would lie about something under oath on national TV, knowing that he had an ex-lover with a tape recording proving the contrary, suggests that Fuhrman is not quite the genius that Dunne portrays him as being. <br />The book is mainly a reprinting of Vanity Fair columns, of which 10 (of 18) chapters are about the Simpson trail. The most moving chapter is the first, where he recounts the murder trial of his own daughter. The author is correct in his theme thatthe criminal justice system is a mess, but anyone looking for a thoughtful analysis will be disappointed. At times, Dunne shows a gift for narrative flow; at other times, he comes across as little more than a self-important gossip columnist and name-dropper.	2002-07-20
US	50658596	R3G2WK2CZE4V2K	0451409272	218977436	Jimmy the Wags: Street Stories of a Private Eye	Books	3	4	5	N	N	From cop to mob shake-down enforcer: a slippery slope indeed	This New York ex-cop entertains us with tales of his career as a private investigator, which he defines unusually broadly, to include such jobs as bodyguard, collection agent, mafia go-fer, and manager of a topless bar. There are some great stories here, and the book is hard to put down. <br />However, I was very disturbed by the contrast between the author's claims to wanting to do the right thing and the fact that he was doing some very illegal things, which he obviously had no trouble rationalizing to himself. The most extreme example is when he works as a \\"collection agent,\\" extorting money from businesses for the mafia. Wagner is genuinely shocked - shocked! - that some trigger-happy prosecutor might want to put him in jail for this! After all, Wagner tried to make sure he wasn't in the room when actual violence occurred, although there were exceptions, and anyway, these were massage parlours and unlicensed bars - so obviously he wasn't doing anything wrong?! It's astonishing how such an intelligent and articulate man could have so completely lost his moral compass without realizing it. Even when Wagner acknowledges he had slid down the slippery slope of wrongdoing, one gets the impression his regrets are more pragmatic, rather than ethical, in nature.	2002-06-24
US	50658596	R22U62YX2R5IQJ	0679742654	714207430	Uneasy Rider: The Interstate Way of Knowledge	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Looking for the soul of America in West Texas	Mike Bryan starts with the premise that the true soul of America is to be found along its interstates, which have replaced its small towns as the true heart of the nation. This is a perfectly reasonable premise, but then he botches it by limiting his search to, of all places, west Texas, with some forays into New Mexico and Arizona. There is also a memorable stopover in the quirky community of  Laughlin, Nevada, which is sort of like Vegas for people without teeth (see, I can be a witty travel writer, too!).  The problem at the heart of this book is that Bryan has focused his narrative on a part of the US that is just too darned boring and soulless (and this coming from a customer-reviewer in Saskatchewan  - oh well).<br />The best passages are when the author interviews law enforcement personnel. He rides with the highway patrol, and spends time with border patrol officers and trucking enforcement officers, all of whom see humanity from a different perspective than the rest of us. Any travel writer must strike a balance between revealing too much versus too little of one's personal life, and Bryan errs on the side of revealing too much. I really don't care about his sperm motility, and his accounts of how he and his wife visited various fertility specialists fall under the label of &quot;too much information.&quot; The book's premise is a sound one - the interstate system is quintessentially American, and a better place than most to measure the pulse of the nation - but a broader geographic scope would have been a plus.	2002-06-23
US	50658596	R3PNPNKJMQ3TJW	0804738203	148047480	Masculine Domination	Books	1	18	50	N	N	What on earth does 'anamnesis' or 'sociodicy' mean?	Someone needs to point out that the emperor has no clothes: Regardless of how respected Bourdieu might be in academic circles, this book is an utterly unreadable waste of trees. I don't know whether to blame the translator or the author, but I suspect the blame rests with the latter. Are words such as doxic, sociodicy, habitus, maleficence, somatized, opacity, and qabel in your vocabulary?<br />Here's a sample sentence: 'But this anamnesis does not apply only to eidetic content, as it does for Plato; nor only, as it does for Freud, to an individual process of constitution of the unconscious, the social aspect of which, without really being excluded, is reduced to a generic and universal family structure, the embodied imprint of a collective history, which is never socially characterized' (p. 55)<br />I'll save you the agony of plowing through 100+ pages of this: Everything in life reflects man's dominance over women. We see this in the way male genitalia protrude from the body, symbolizing power, and in fact we see male dominance in every aspect of life.  <br />These are thoughts that have been expressed more clearly elsewhere. Bourdieu uses an Algerian tribal group - hardly a hotbed of gender equality - as his book's theme, which does rather stack the deck in favor of making his argument.	2002-04-25
US	50658596	RL7PYZCBJ1F6F	1885254857	472426312	New York 1960: Architecture and Urbanism Between the Second World War and the Bicentennial	Books	5	24	24	N	N	An eight-pound masterpiece of architectural history	First of all, the book is just too darned big to handle comfortably. With over 1300 pages, I don't know whether to congratulate the authors on their thoroughness or criticize them for having no sense of self-restraint. This tome could have been divided into three separate volumes, and each would have been a substantial book in itself.<br />The epic length of the book allows the authors to go into incredible detail. The book is divided into chapters primarily by neighborhood. There are also chapters devoted to the topic of interior decoration, the 1964-65 World's Fair, \\"Beyond the Boroughs,\\" \\"Historic Preservation,\\" and \\"New York and the Arts.\\"  The numerous b&w photographs, averaging more than one per page, are stunning.<br />A chapter titled \\"Death by Development\\" walks the reader through the ideology of the era that led to public housing monstrosities, as well as middle-class housing of dubious aesthetic and structural integrity. This same chapter discusses proposals for air-raid shelters, some of which would have had expanses large enough to hold a nine-story building, as well as the 1945 incident in which a US military plane crashed into the Empire State Building. The same chapter shifts to transportation issues, and presents a 1951 proposal for an unconventional \\"people mover\\" under 42nd Street, and the beginning of construction in 1972 on the Second Avenue subway (which perhaps, will open sometime in my lifetime). All this in just one of seventeen chapters - gives you some idea of the expansiveness and thoroughness of this book.<br />Many readers will take special note of the eight pages devoted to the World Trade Center. This book was written before \\"9-11,\\" and the book's coverage of the WTC is haunting, to say the least.<br />From our perspective, the era in question (1945-1976) constitutes the \\"dark ages\\" of urban planning and architecture. Yet, the beautiful period photographs and accompanying text immerse the reader in the aesthetic mentality of the era.This book is a masterpiece, and maybe later in the day I'll find the strength to move this eight pound book from my table to my desk.	2002-04-18
US	50658596	R2PWJXAY3T4PZA	0262194627	795231053	Times Square Roulette: Remaking the City Icon	Books	3	6	10	N	N	Documenting a miracle of urban redevelopment	The transformation of Times Square from a den of porn, drugs, and prostitution into an urban Disneyland is the greatest success story of urban renewal. (I am astonished that anyone could be nostalgic about the old Times Square - I find it hard to be nostalgic about drug dealers loitering in front of porn shops and boarded-up theaters.) <br />Lynne Sagalyn devotes her 600-page tome to documenting the politics behind the redevelopment process. The end result is not exactly rivetting reading. Perhaps it's asking too much for any author to transform this epic of backroom politics, urban planners, and real estate developers into a \\"good read.\\" In any event, the author has carefully documented the entire process, focussing on the backroom politics and urban planning strategies, rather than on the architecture of the buildings themselves. The book is profusely illustrated with well over a hundred b&w photos and detailed maps. In addition, a central color section of the book has about 35 photographs and drawings.	2002-04-10
US	50658596	R2BVE4GHMP630M	0465031870	102853566	Diners, Bowling Alleys, And Trailer Parks: Chasing The American Dream In The Postwar Consumer Culture	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Social history along the highway	This is essentially a book of social history, although it brings together the disciplines of economic history, gender studies, architecture, and popular culture. Hurley discusses how diners, bowling alleys, and trailer parks reflected the social values of the 1950s and 1960s. The chapters on the three building types go into excruciating detail; for example, every nuance of diner design and operation is discussed and scrutinized for meaning. The book would have been improved if the author had covered more building types in the same number of pages.<br />Hurley's overriding theme is laudable: On the outskirts of most towns, there is a region that constituted that community's \\"commercial strip\\" during the 1950s and 1960s, before America discovered fast food, shopping malls, and big-box stores. Most of us drive through these past-their-prime commercial strips every day, seeing nothing but obsolete buildings. Hurley points out that these obsolete commercial strips are the equivalent of archeological sites, speaking volumes about how family values have evolved during the past half-century.	2002-04-10
US	50658596	R25001C8MRNT54	0528986945	929934766	Rand McNally New York City 5 Boroughs: Streetfinder (Rand McNally Streetfinder)	Books	3	2	2	N	Y	Atlas version of the Rand-McNally fold-out paper map	This spiral-bound atlas is the book form of the Rand-McNally fold-out paper map (not to be confused with the EasyFinder laminated map, which has less coverage). Over half the pages are dedicated to the street index. One inch equals a half mile in this atlas, versus .7 mile to the inch on the fold-out paper version.  <br />The atlas format makes it hard to get a &quot;big picture&quot; perspective of New York, but this format will be ideal for those locating minor residential streets in the outer boroughs. There is nothing here on commuter trains or the subway; this is not for tourists. Tourists will be better served by the hard-to-find &quot;Hagstrom 5 maps in 1&quot; fold-out map (not the atlas).	2002-04-07
US	50658596	R38IS0UKUGQG3J	0520225384	680914533	The Grit Beneath the Glitter: Tales from the Real Las Vegas	Books	2	17	29	N	N	A union-based perspective on Las Vegas	This book consists of 22 articles and over 60 b&amp;w photos covering organized labor, feminism, and state politics. It is uneven in style and tone, ranging from first-person narratives to academic essays. The focus of the book is the city's underclass, which seems to be defined as unionized casino workers. (Many of these writers are oblivious that there are several strata of less-well-off people below unionized employees.) Much of the book is a paean to organized labor. For example, the longest article is titled &quot;The Recent History of the Culinary Union in Las Vegas.&quot; Entrepreneurs are the villains of this book, while the heros are union leaders and (perversely) mafioso - there is some nostalgia for the good old days when gangsters ran a tight ship and took care of the little people.  <br />The most touching essay is by Constance Devereaux who writes of her experiences conducting a class inside a Nevada prison, juxtaposed with her finding the body of her murdered husband in their bedroom as a result of a bungled burglary.	2002-04-07
US	50658596	R6Y0VXWH0GGX1	0394281055	525354741	Then We Take Berlin: Stories from the Other Side of Europe	Books	3	1	4	N	N	In search of tawdry sex in the new Berlin	This is an unusual book - a travelogue of Eastern Europe from the perspective of a middle-aged gay tourist looking for boys. I suppose I should have guessed what I was getting into on the basis of the cover illustration. The fact that the longest chapter is titled \\"Boyopolis/Berlin\\" is another tipoff. <br />Stan Persky tells us a lot about himself - in fact, too much. He is a fiftysomething philosophy professor who grew up in Chicago and now lives in Vancouver, Canada. He is a non-practicing Jew who has participated in protests against Israel. And when Stan hits a new city such as Berlin, he spends his time in \\"pederast bars\\" (a phrase used in the book) to look for boys. Some readers will find this titillating and others not, but you have been warned.<br />My greatest disappointment about this book is that Stan Persky tells us too little about Berlin itself, beyond the gay-cruising circuit. His Berlin tales of boy-hunting could just as easily be set in any large city. Berlin, which is the focus of the book, is one of the world's most interesting cities, but I felt I learned very little about it. On the other hand, the chapters covering other cities give the reader more of a flavor of local politics, culture, and history. Berlin, Budapest, Sofia, Vilnius, and Tirana receive the greatest coverage.	2002-02-13
US	50658596	R1POT7RABQYDH2	0881338796	321373893	In Place: Spatial and Social Order in a Faeroe Islands Community	Books	5	7	7	N	N	An anthropologist explores daily village life	Dennis Gaffin, an American anthropologist, spent a year studying the phenomenon of social control in an outlying Faeroese village. The resulting book is a surprisingly readable first-person narrative, not a turgid, theoretical work like so much academic writing. Gaffin's book is a description of how a small Faroese village functions - what people do for a living, their worldview, and the forces through which social norms are enforced. The topic of spatial order, to which the title refers, receives relatively little attention, with the exception that the author devotes a chapter to the issue of placenames. This book is principally about how a society pressures people to behave &quot;properly&quot; as defined in that culture. <br />I will long remember the description of how, in this isolated treeless village, every movement of every person is closely scrutinized and gossipped about. In such a close-knit, claustrophobic society with its geographic isolation, harsh weather, and suffocating social pressures, I'm amazed that more people don't turn into psychopaths or drunkards. Some readers might prefer Susanna Kaysen's &quot;Far Afield,&quot; which covers the identical material in the form of a novel. However, I preferred Gaffin's non-fiction narrative to Kaysen's work of fiction.	2002-02-04
US	50658596	R36DDC5KYYSUP0	0743423526	764771953	Tunnel Vision	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Is there an award for the quirkiest and most eccentric plot?	Many a story begins with the premise of a drunken bet, but this novel takes it to a ridiculous extreme: The narrator bets a friend that he can visit all 267 London subway stations in a single day. The stakes? Get this - he bets his fiance against his friend's collection of historic subway tickets. This is all a tad difficult to swallow, especially since the fiance seems to be quite a catch, but once you accept the premise, the novel is well-written. This is Keith Lowe's first work, and he shows an ability to create believable characters and dialogue. However, a reader's appreciation of this book will be proportional to one's familiarity with the London Underground system.	2002-01-27
US	50658596	R3263SNDQNYT5I	0926494201	195082150	The New York Apartment Houses of Rosario Candela and James Carpenter	Books	5	31	32	N	Y	Andrew Alpern's Labor of Love	Candela and Carpenter were two of New York's most noted architects of the inter-war era, specializing in luxury apartment buildings. Architectural historian Andrew Alpern has assembled a reference text of their buildings, organized in geographic sequence. In this book, a typical building has two pages dedicated to it. One page consists of a floor plan, and the facing page has a photo or rendering of the exterior, combined with a one-to-six sentence description. Also, there are several brief essays at the beginning of the book.<br />I enjoyed this volume, which Alpern has directed at a very narrow segment of readers, but it's not for everyone. This is a volume for architectural enthusiasts who are intrigued by room arrangements. Others might be better served by a book broader in scope (including some by this same author).	2001-12-27
US	50658596	RQ443XUSE1OQL	0140084991	102398027	Empire Express: Building the First Transcontinental Railroad	Books	3	1	4	N	N	It's hard to make a financial scandal exciting	David Bain has written an exhaustive history of the first transcontinental railroad. His account starts with pre-Civil War interest in the project, and culminates in the meeting of the rails and the famous &quot;golden spike.&quot; The author gives a lot of detail about the challenges of construction, but this is predominantly a book about behind-the-scenes political and financial machinations. Anyone knowledgeable about US history has a fuzzy notion of the Credit Mobilier scandal, but here Bain explains in detail exactly how the &quot;robber barons&quot; got rich at the cost of their investors and the US government. I'm reluctant to criticize such a painstaking work of scholarship, but it did not hold my interest; financial scandals rarely make riveting reading. I much preferred Dee Brown's &quot;Hear That Lonesome Whistle Blow,&quot; which was broader in scope and directed toward a popular audience. Bain's book has 700+ pages, eight maps, and over 60 photos.	2001-12-13
US	50658596	R3GWTWPNDVT2I0	0299165302	302822664	Wayward Icelanders: Punishment, Boundary Maintenance, And The	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Don't worry--you won't be mugged on Austurstraeti	This is a scholarly analysis of crime and the justice system of Iceland. The authors cover the history of policing from the earliest nightwatchmen in the 1700s to the present day, as well as the workings of the criminal courts, the prisons, and the media's treatment of crime. A great deal of attention is given to the impact of alcohol and drugs on crime. Iceland is incredibly safe even by Scandinavian standards, but like anywhere else, crime had increased dramatically in the past twenty years, affecting Icelanders' image of themselves as a caring, sensitive, equalitarian society.<br />If you're expecting the sort of book you'd find under the &quot;True Crime&quot; sign at your local mall bookstore, this is not for you. Rather, this is a serious sociological study aimed at an extremely narrow audience. I liked it because I wanted to learn more about the dark side (if any) of this outwardly-utopian society, but it's certainly not for everyone.	2001-12-11
US	50658596	RKGN8XZJWBWQ7	0486402444	490644404	Broadway Theatres: History and Architecture	Books	3	5	5	N	N	New York theaters 1873-1932	William Morrison's book covers 74 theaters from 1873 to 1932, including those demolished as well as those still standing. Most theaters get two pages of coverage, consisting mostly of b&amp;w photos of both the exterior and interior. The accompanying text emphasizes noteworthy performances. This book is a nice overview of the topic, although I preferred van Hoogstraten's &quot;Lost Broadway Theaters,&quot; which gives more information about the interior layouts, but doesn't cover theaters that are still standing.	2001-12-03
US	50658596	R3KTC4FPMVZPY4	0835716937	186382399	The Roof Gardens of Broadway Theatres, 1883-1942 (Theater and Dramatic Studies)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Wow, books don't get more esoteric than this!	Stephen Johnson has chosen an extraordinarily specialized topic -- the theater roof garden. In the era before air conditioning, some theaters realized that if they set out tables and chairs on their roof with an informal stage, they could attract customers hoping that rooftop breezes would give relief from summer heat. In some instances, the roof garden became a completely enclosed room, which one would think defeats the original intent. <br />Today, there are none left in New York. The New Amsterdam Theater on 42nd Street still stands, and its fully-enclosed roof garden still exists, but (to the best of my knowledge) the roof garden is not open to the public. The Theatre Republic (now &quot;New Victory&quot;) once had an open-air roof garden, which is long gone. Once upon a time New York had other roof gardens, but they're completely gone now. The only roof garden still is use is Toronto's Elgin Theater.<br />The author methodically traces the history of this phenomenon, giving attention to the architectural aspect as well as the performers and performances. The 76 illustrations are mostly b&amp;w photos, but there are also seating plans, maps, and a few floor plans and cross-sections of theaters. If you're curious about this architectural phenomenon, then this is the book for you, but most people will find it excessively specialized and esoteric.	2001-12-03
US	50658596	R31VSXHI51I8WX	0465004164	557272089	Arabia, The Gulf & The West	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Old but still a classic	This is becoming out of date (1980), yet it's still the best book I've seen on the modern political history of the Arabian Peninsula. The 500-plus pages cover such topics as the British departure from Aden (Yemen) and the Trucial Coast (now UAE), Oman's civil war in Dhufar, Saudi-UAE border disputes, OPEC in the 70s, and an overview of the current political situation in the various countries. Iran and Iraq also receive substantial coverage, but the greatest emphasis is on Saudi Arabia and the minor Gulf states. There are five maps. Although much has happened since the book was written -- namely the Gulf War -- this remains the classic introduction to the region's politics for the serious reader.	2001-12-02
US	50658596	R768N0SP1JXWC	0395977894	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	1	52	113	N	N	A lot of &quot;facts&quot; went into this book, but not much thought	Eric Schlosser is mad at the world. But rather than write a book titled &quot;I'm Mad at the World,&quot; he's organized his ranting around McDonald's. As is true for many leftists, McDonald's symbolizes modern society and serves as a handy target.<br />Schlosser is upset that teenage workers are paid only the minimum wage and-horrors!-aren't even union members. He ought to consider that unionized restaurants are rare indeed, and that his favorite mom-and-pop locally owned restaurant is more likely than the fast-food chains to violate the law by paying less than the minimum wage. Schlosser is upset that McFood is so high in fat, not appreciating that burgers at Burger King and Wendy's have even higher fat content than those at McDonald's. Anyway, it's unlikely their customers would go home to whip up some tofu and lentils; home-cooking can be incredibly high-fat as well. Schlosser is angry about food poisoning in ground beef, yet in jurisdictions that publish restaurant cleanliness ratings, fast food outlets score better, on average, than independent restaurants. The typical home kitchen wouldn't score all that well in a public health inspection, either. Schlosser also complains that slaughterhouses in small communities bring in members of racial minorities to staff those facilities. There is just a tad of irony that a leftist would get upset about slaughterhouses making rural communities more racially diverse. Through all of this, the pro-business Republicans are painted as evil, yet Schlosser forgot to mention that the Clintons gave preferential treatment to Tyson Foods, the country's biggest chicken processor, and that Hillary used to sit on their board.<br />If this book makes you pass by McDonald's to eat instead at Joe's Diner, remember that independent restaurants pay their employees less than fast food outlets, have lower sanitary standards, and often use products that are past their sell-by date. Bon appetit!	2001-11-28
US	50658596	R3RVNUFRHSI1SD	1841880124	804749532	A Guide To The Architecture of London	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The all-inclusive guide to London architecture of all eras	This is a thorough treatment of London architecture, covering not only iconic landmarks like Buckingham Palace (although they're here too), but as well, buildings from all eras across Greater London. Post-WWII architecture is surprisingly well represented. The region is divided into a grid of 24 squares, each of which is illustrated with a detailed map (except outlying areas), and this grid is used for organizing the book into chapters. In all, over 900 buildings are included, each with a 2 inch x 2 inch photo and a description of three or four sentences. Floor plans are shown for each of Wren's churches and for a handful of other buildings.  Appendices have maps showing 'The Great Estates,' London squares in chronological order, and 'The Inns of Court.'	2001-11-26
US	50658596	RYUL9GGDZXUCJ	9979816007	669196944	Reykjavik	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A nice tourist-oriented book for the coffee table	This is the sort of book one might buy as a souvenir. It consists of 119 pages of color photos which nicely capture the ambience of Iceland's capital city.	2001-11-26
US	50658596	R2LQENV4GFCXOY	1854141600	984088303	Underground Architecture	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The architecture of London subway stations	This is a beautifully illustrated book aimed at a very specialized audience. 'Underground' in the title refers to the London Underground, or what Americans would call the London Subway. There aren't many people interested in the architecture of London subway stations, but this book is for the few readers that are. Lawrence traces the history of London subway station design from its beginnings in 1863 up to the Jubilee Line (not open at press time, but illustrated with color photos of architectural models). The book focuses on the design of street-level structures, and there is also an emphasis on the tile used to line deep-level stations. The thrust of this book is solely on the aesthetics of station design; there is nothing here on track diagrams, and very little on issues of passenger flow through the stations. <br />This is mainly a book of illustrations, in which the text exists primarily to explain the photos and drawings. On average, there are more than two illustrations per page, mostly b&amp;w photos and diagrams, but also a sprinkling of color diagrams. Toward the end of the book (the 70s, 80s, and 90s), almost all the illustrations are color.	2001-11-26
US	50658596	RDTW83L57BZUB	0262720167	982952737	The Skyward Trend of Thought: The Metaphysics of the American Skyscraper	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A provocative perspective on why we build skyscrapers	According to van Leeuwen, it's a myth that the skyscraper was a response to high land values. Instead, he argues that they are essentially the cathedrals of our era - monuments to individual men, or to organizations, or simply monuments to civilization itself. The prose is turgid and constitutes a test of the reader's powers of concentration, but this is balanced by the numerous b&amp;w drawings of building exteriors, averaging more than one per page. The renderings of artist Hugh Ferriss receive particular attention.	2001-11-24
US	50658596	RBWZULFYNVNPO	0394715861	283627846	Skyscraper	Books	4	5	5	N	N	History of the skyscraper	The famous architectural critic has written the history of the skyscraper in the US, from its origins in the late 1800s to about 1980. Naturally, New York City and Chicago comprise the vast majority of the examples, but Goldberger frequently includes other US cities as well. The emphasis is on the aesthetics of exteriors, not interiors. There are many b&amp;w photos, averaging roughly one per page, plus 14 color illustrations. There are no floor plans.<br />The nine chapters are as follows (the descriptions are my wording, not the actual chapter titles): (1) Early NYC buildings (such as Singer Building, Times Tower), (2) Chicago skyscrapers up to 1905, (3) Flatiron and Woolworth Buildings, (4) buildings from 1917-1931, (5) The Chanin, Chrysler, and Empire State Buildings, (6) the 1930s, (7) modernism in the 1950s, (8) late modernism, especially projects emphasizing open plazas (such as the World Trade Center), (9) postmodernist projects that were on the drawing board as the book was being written (such as Battery Park City).	2001-11-24
US	50658596	R13KEZDIWH2LAV	1580930271	784517192	New York 1880: Architecture and Urbanism in the Gilded Age	Books	3	11	16	N	N	New York architecture in the late 1800s	With over 1100 pages, this book was so difficult to handle physically, that it hampered my enjoyment of this epic-length volume. On the other hand, the book is a bargain in terms of cents per page! Photos average more than one per page; however, the quality of photographic reproduction is frequently very disappointing (even when compared to Stern's 'New York 1900,' which also uses very old photographs). There are approximately 75 floor plans, with most page space used for the less-than-rivetting text. Chapters are divided by building type. A surprising amount of page space is consumed by illustrations of entries in architectural competitions (Union League Club and Cathedral of St. John the Divine).	2001-11-17
US	50658596	R2XDK9P5TUFY1T	0847806502	501343300	Manhattan Manners: Architecture and Style, 1850-1900	Books	4	9	10	N	N	New York urban planning before 1900	Ms. Boyer documents the urban fabric of Manhattan from 1850 to 1900. She focuses mainly on urban planning and the architecture of the era, at times blending social history into her narrative to convey what life was like for the well-to-do of the era.  Topics include early retailers, theaters, hotels, apartment buildings, and even brothels, but the overarching theme is how Manhattan developed as the city spread to fill out the street grid. Photos and drawings average more than one per page, with only several floor plans, although most page space is used for the text.	2001-11-17
US	50658596	R1TV1VZ52PPLPS	3764362367	460194418	Breathing Cities: the Architecture of Movement	Books	1	0	1	N	N	It's about neither architecture nor movement	Anyone choosing this book on the basis of the title will be disappointed, since it has nothing to do with architecture and nothing to do with transportation. Instead, this book consists of 22 collections of photographs, all of which take unorthodox approaches to photography in urban settings. We have such things as photos of the pattern of pipes on the ceilings of Paris subway stations, an artificial mountain in the Netherlands made of garbage, snapshots someone found laying in the street, fictitious typed letters between a photographer and some imaginary character, street markings that have been spray-painted by municipal workers, and so on. Despite the editor's introductory essay, I'm mystified as to why this book exists.	2001-11-17
US	50658596	R3ED2C8WGDL9QD	3823854615	545294795	City Transformed: Urban Architecture at the Beginning of the 21st Century	Books	2	5	13	N	N	Apparently, you can never have too much concrete	This book documents 25 urban megaprojects, of which 18 are in Europe, 3 in the US, and 4 in Asia. Most page space is given to beautiful color photos and color diagrams, accompanied by text that is unabashedly fawning. Only a few of these projects are designed to be compatible with the surrounding architectural context (Dublin and Lisbon). Others among these projects will probably become important assets to their cities. (I would put Canary Wharf, Battery Park City, and the transportation facilities in this category.) However, what is shocking is how downright ugly most of these projects are, and one wonders if, fifty years hence, they will be regarded as monstrous tumors on the urban fabric. I cringe at such projects as Albeda College (Rotterdam), the Station Quarter (Frankfurt), and some of the buildings of Potsdamer Platz (Berlin). Is there an uglier building on the planet than Gehry's Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao, Spain? Apparently, we have learned nothing from such urban planning fiascos as London's Barbican or Detroit's Renaissance Center.	2001-11-17
US	50658596	R2XI6DI61RTY20	0847819345	981635555	New York 1900: Metropolitan Architecture and Urbanism 1890-1915	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Beautifully documents buildings of the turn-of-the-century	This is an excellent treatment of New York architecture, 1890-1915, divided into chapters by building type. It's substantially thinner than Robert Stern's other books in this series (New York 1880, New York 1930, New York 1960), but there's enough meat here that the reader feels the topic has been fully covered. The book has a particularly attractive page format, with numerous photos that beautifully document the era (averaging approximately one per page). There are also roughly 60 floor plans, although most page space is used for text.	2001-11-17
US	50658596	R2OGOA4J9JKAD1	0847818381	875409255	New York 1930: Architecture and Urbanism Between the Two World Wars	Books	5	17	18	N	N	The Golden Age of New York City	When people talk about New York's Golden Age, they're usually referring to the late 1800s, but I would argue that New York's true Golden Age was the 1920s. With over 800 pages, this tome is difficult to handle, but nevertheless, it covers New York at its peak of glory, and is the best of Robert Stern's books about New York architecture (e.g., New York 1880, New York 1900, New York 1960). Especially noteworthy are the beautiful b&amp;w photos, averaging more than one per page. There are also approximately 40 floor plans, although most page space is given over to text. The authors give attention to both exteriors and interiors of the era's buildings. Each chapter covers a specific type of building, with a special emphasis on Rockefeller Center, the 1939 World's Fair, 57th Street, and the works of architects Kahn, Walker, and Hood.	2001-11-17
US	50658596	R327EAJP0Y8H4	3764362367	460194418	Breathing Cities: the Architecture of Movement	Books	1	0	2	N	N	It's about neither architecture nor movement	Anyone choosing this book on the basis of the title will be disappointed, since it has nothing to do with architecture and nothing to do with transportation. Instead, this book consists of 22 collections of photographs, all of which take unorthodox approaches to photography in urban settings. We have such things as photos of the pattern of pipes on the ceilings of Paris subway stations, an artificial mountain in the Netherlands made of garbage, snapshots someone found laying in the street, fictitious typed letters between a photographer and some imaginary character, street markings that have been spray-painted by municipal workers, and so on. Despite the editor's introductory essay, I'm mystified as to why this book exists.	2001-11-17
US	50658596	R1IZ4ZHRKIF4ZK	0684813084	792074603	The Choice	Books	5	6	7	N	N	How Bob Dole won the 1996 primaries	Woodward carefully documents the early stages of the 1996 presidential election, covering mid-1994 to April 1996. Note that the book's coverage ends before the national party conventions. Woodward tries to give equal treatment to both parties, but Republicans clearly cooperated with him much more than Clinton's staff (who no doubt feel burned by Woodward's earlier expos of Clinton, 'The Agenda').  More than anything else, this is a character study of Bob Dole, who candidly shared his thoughts with the author throughout the period. We also learn a great deal about Powell, Forbes, and Dick Morris.<br />Woodward's style is not for everyone. He carefully reconstructs various meetings, explaining who said what to who. However, Woodward uses paraphrases instead of direct quotes, unless he's sure of the exact words spoken. Many readers will find the result to be incredibly tedious, although I appreciate Woodward's concern for accuracy when quoting people. The book gives the reader a real sense of being in the room when important conversations occur regarding the federal budget or campaign strategy.	2001-11-03
US	50658596	R2IRZV0PW6GPS0	0801486130	145955966	Alone Together: A History of New York's Early Apartments	Books	5	20	20	N	N	The development of the early New York apartment house	This superb book explains how well-to-do New Yorkers were reluctant to move into apartment buildings, and how that resistance was overcome through clever design and marketing tactics. Cromley begins by discussing early Parisian apartment buildings and the earliest tenements in New York City. These two historic strands came together in the 1870s, when apartment buildings for the affluent, known as 'French flats,' appeared as a new building type for New York.  Cromley highlights the social history of the era - what life was really like for the people (especially the women) who lived there, as distinct from their counterparts in single-family houses. Among the still-extant classic buildings discussed are the Dakota (1884), the Osborne (1885), and the Ansonia (1902). In all, the book covers the mid-1800s to 1911; there is nothing here about the 1920s building boom following WWI. The book is generously illustrated with about 30 floor plans and about 50 engravings.	2001-11-01
US	50658596	R3FQZGPQAMZ4DA	0679738762	21996426	Low Life: Lures and Snares of Old New York	Books	5	20	20	N	N	New York City's 19th century underclass	Luc Sant has written this wonderful book about the social history of New York City from the 1840s to WWI, with a particular emphasis on the very late 1800s.  The author is interested in the 'low life' of the book's title, by which he means the working poor, the unemployed, and especially, the criminal element. Interwoven with this social history is a discussion of the physical environment of New York City (tenement architecture, the street grid, the elevated trains), as well as the literature of the era. The chapters, which are arranged by topic, include such things as tenement life, famous theatrical acts of the era, infamous saloons (the worst of which were merely fronts for mugging customers), the role of narcotics, gambling rackets, prostitution, the life of the typical policeman, and the first instance of neighborhood gentrification (Greenwich Village). Throughout it all, Sant enables the reader to imagine being there. The end result is a delight to read, giving the reader vivid insights into New York history that are overlooked in most history books.	2001-11-01
US	50658596	R2I2Y4J3V829XT	0394556410	418402221	New York, New York: How the Apartment House Transformed the Life of the City (1869-1930)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Architectural history of the New York apartment house	Elizabeth Hawes traces the development of the New York apartment house, beginning with the Stuyvesant (1869), and then discussing the earliest middle-class and upper-class buildings of the 1870s. As Hawes explains how design evolved through the decades, she examines such classic buildings as the Villard Houses (1885), the Dakota (1884), and the Osborne (1885), as well as others of lesser fame. My favorite chapter is the 13th (of 14 chapters), in which Hawes compares three famous architects of the 1920s: Roth, Carpenter, and Candella. As the title indicates, the book's coverage ends at 1930. The author has done more than merely catalogue buildings; instead, she shows how changes in design reflect changes in society and an effort to learn from past design errors. There are 5 floor plans and approximately 50 photographs. As much as I enjoyed this book, I prefer Cromley's 'Alone Together,' which struck me as a slightly better treatment of the same material, with more illustrations. However, Hawes' 'New York, New York' covers the 1920s, a pivotal decade in New York apartment architecture, which was not covered in Cromley's book.	2001-11-01
US	50658596	R24F7931I447TO	0674538390	933763706	London: A Social History (New York Times Notable Book 1995)	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Not a social history, but it's a wonderful book nonetheless	Roy Porter's book covers the full breadth of London history, from Roman times to approximately 1990, with the Victoria era and the post-WWII era receiving particularly heavy emphasis. A more accurate title for the book would be 'London: A History,' because the social history component is a bit thin. Porter devotes more attention to the evolving political situation and to physical characteristics (streets, fortifications, famous buildings) than he does to social history. <br />This is a wonderful introduction to London, and would be ideal for the visitor seeking a deeper appreciation of (what I regard as) the world's most fascinating city. One quibble: Porter should have been more self-restrained about his visceral hatred of Margaret Thatcher. Porter's rants about her are so over-the-top that he even blames her for the excesses of left-wing political correctness.	2001-10-20
US	50658596	R1UPU8Z0YT6R23	0465041930	205798898	The Lost City: The Forgotten Virtues Of Community In America	Books	5	16	18	N	N	A provocative social history of the 1950s	Alan Ehrenhalt's premise is a provocative one: People in the 1950s were happy, and they were happy because they accepted authority. The book is a rebuttal to all those who portray the 1950s as the 'dark ages' of US history, and the author argues that even blacks were better off than popularly believed. Ehrenhalt takes us to three Chicago neighborhoods: the Southwest Side with its working-class Catholic population, the suburban community of Elmhurst, and the black ghetto of Bronzeville. In each, he shows that people in the 1950s were content with their lives, and in many ways were better off than they are now. Even Chicago's black ghetto had a multitude of black-owned businesses and black social organizations, which have since vanished, replaced by nothing but vacant lots and failed housing projects. This is a provocative work of social history that challenges our image of the 1950s, and in addition, it challenges our assumptions about the benefits of free choice and the 'evil' of obedience to authority.	2001-10-15
US	50658596	R2ODPYCRBQAHQC	078670716X	711375286	The Queen's House: A Social History of Buckingham Palace	Books	1	16	21	N	N	The royal family through rose-colored glasses	The problems with this book begin with its title: It's neither a social history, nor does it have much detail about Buckingham Palace. Instead, Edna Healey has written a sugar-coated history of the royal family. Some of her sources are linked to the royal family, and the resulting book is so unabashedly fawning that all credibility is lost. Even Edward VIII is described in a sympathetic light. Those with a serious interest in the history of Buckingham Palace as a physical structure will be disappointed in the amount of detail, and there are other authors who have written more balanced treatments of the royal family.	2001-10-10
US	50658596	R3FBWIT4CFUDA6	0300077394	602985789	Rise of the New York Skyscraper: 1865-1913	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Documenting New York's earliest high-rise buildings	As the title indicates, this book covers New York 'skyscrapers' (loosely-defined) from 1865 to 1913. The book begins with 5-story masonry buildings of the late 1800s and culminates with such landmarks as the Woolworth and Singer Buildings. The authors highlight the technical angle, and explain the developments that occurred in steel framing, foundations, and elevators, although the exterior aesthetics of these buildings also receive attention. Some space is allocated to hotels and apartment buildings; however, most of the book is devoted to office buildings. Best of all are the magnificent period photographs of early high-rises, about a hundred in all. Also, there are twenty floor plans.	2001-10-04
US	50658596	RKEP2OTXK6NU7	0917439090	327713053	Mansions in the Clouds: The Skyscraper Palazzi of Emery Roth	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Emery Roth: New York's underappreciated architect	Ruttenbaum's book on Emery Roth (1871-1948) is a biography as well as a survey of the buildings he designed. The author successfully explains Roth's role in creating high-rise hotels and apartment buildings that combined attractive exteriors with more efficient, more livable interiors than had been the case before Roth. Architects like Wright, Pei, and LeCorbusier may be better known, but their buildings were designed as works of art, not buildings to be lived in. In contrast, Roth's buildings combined functionality and attractiveness. As Ruttenbaum walks us through Roth's career, we see how he gradually fine-tuned his ability to craft functional floor plans. Roth's works include such New York landmarks as the Beresford, Warwick, San Remo, St. Moritz, Ritz Tower, and hundreds of others.<br />Two small quibbles regarding this book: Why did Ruttenbaum omit the Hotel Dixie (now Hotel Carter), which was noteworthy for having a long-distance bus station in its basement, complete with turntable? And why did the author use the last chapter to fawn uncritically over the works of Emery Roth's sons, who, lacking their father's aesthetic sense, have produced buildings comprising the worst of 60s-era architecture? Ruttenbaum's book includes a multitude of photos, averaging roughly one per page, as well as 25 floor plans.	2001-10-02
US	50658596	R6Q5M72FDYF2A	0486273709	969541524	Luxury Apartment Houses of Manhattan: An Illustrated History (Dover Architecture)	Books	4	59	59	N	N	The luxury apartment house through the decades	Architectural historian Andrew Alpern takes the reader through a survey of luxury apartment buildings on Manhattan Island. There are 34 chapters, of which 28 are descriptions of particular buildings, their histories, and their unique features, each illustrated by one or more large b&amp;w photographs. The book includes four floor plans. Buildings discussed include the Majestic, Century, Ansonia, London Terrace, Beresford, Osborne, and Alwyn Court. There are also six chapters dealing with more general topics: British 'antecedents of American apartments,' famous courtyard buildings, office-to-residence conversions, classic buildings of Fifth Avenue, double-height studios for artists, and changing fashions in floor plans. <br />There is substantial overlap with Alpern's earlier book, 'New York's Fabulous Luxury Apartments,' although the two books were clearly separately written works. That earlier book is aimed at the reader whose interest is mainly in floor plans, while the reader who is more interested in detailed narrative descriptions might prefer 'Luxury Apartment Houses.'	2001-10-01
US	50658596	R1ADJTR1OUB84X	0486288722	241676638	Historic Manhattan Apartment Houses	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Evolution of the NYC luxury apartment building	This extremely slender, 84-page book covers 20 luxury apartment buildings in New York City, each of which is illustrated by at least one large b&amp;w photograph. For each, the author discusses the building's history and unique features. Buildings covered include the Normandy, San Remo, and Hampshire House. This book has no floor plans, in contrast to Alpern's earlier work, 'New York's Fabulous Luxury Apartments.'	2001-10-01
US	50658596	R1CKXJ4RUU9X8L	0520219546	765127532	Living Downtown: The History of Residential Hotels in the United States	Books	5	11	11	N	N	You won't find these hotels in any travel guide	Much has been written about luxury hotels, but Paul Groth has chosen an overlooked subject: the bottom-rung hotels, often known as SROs (single-room occupancy), that serve as homes for those at the margins of society. Groth is an architecture professor who has actually lived in such places, which gives a refreshing personal touch to the book. He discusses the physical characteristics of such buildings, combined with a sympathetic description of who lives in them and what their lives are like. At the end of the book, Groth argues that SRO residents have been overlooked in urban renewal, and he explains how naive it is to expect that demolition of SROs will cause their residents to disappear.<br />The book has a distinct San Francisco emphasis. There are over 150 illustrations, mostly photos, but also including 12 floor plans. If you've ever wondered about the down-and-out hotels that are in every town and city, Paul Groth explains what is behind the facades.	2001-09-30
US	50658596	R2LJHCR6IPZON1	0801845734	689290931	The North American Railroad: Its Origin, Evolution, and Geography (Creating the North American Landscape)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Why railroads were built where they were	This hefty tome falls under the topic of 'historic geography of transportation,' in which Vance addresses the question of why railroads were built where they were. He examines the 'big picture' of why, for instance, the first transcontinental passed through Cheyenne and Ogden, instead of further north or further south. He also takes a `micro' perspective and explains how a specific railroad route was planned to reach a given mountain pass, while keeping gradients, overall length, and tunnels to an absolute minimum. The reader gains a new appreciation of how difficult it was to plan railroads before the era of aerial surveys, since even a tenth of a percentage point in gradient (an additional rise of a few yards over a mile) can make the difference between profit and financial disaster. The book focuses solely on the planning issues -- look elsewhere for descriptions of operating practices or rolling stock.<br />Three-fourths of the book cover the US, while one-fourth addresses Canada. Northern Alberta and northern British Columbia receive disproportionately heavy attention, undoubtedly because the author has a summer cabin there. There are over a hundred b&amp;w photos and fifty maps.  However, when the author engages in a mile-by-mile description of why a certain route was laid out as it was, the book cries out for even more detailed maps so that the reader can follow the author's description of topography.	2001-09-30
US	50658596	RW245Q3L1KP8V	048625318X	96556657	New York's Fabulous Luxury Apartments: With Original Floor Plans from the Dakota, River House, Olympic Tower and Other Great Buildings	Books	5	69	71	N	N	Floor plans of New York's luxury apartment buildings	Originally published under the title 'Apartments for the Affluent,' this book is aimed at a very narrow audience indeed. Alpern takes us through 75 luxury Manhattan apartment houses in chronological order, from 1869 to 1974. Each building has a full-page b&amp;w photograph, a diagram of a typical floor plan, and a quarter-page-or-so description. Alpern explains the reasoning behind the various room arrangements, and how that reasoning evolved over the years. I enjoyed this book immensely, but it's not for everyone. If you ever walked by an older high-rise apartment building and wondered how the rooms were arranged and why, this slender volume will fascinate you. Otherwise, you may prefer a book that's a more general survey of the topic (including some by the same author).	2001-09-30
US	50658596	RIRF9BK2LEL0H	0814719104	13199390	Tunneling to the Future: The Story of the Great Subway Expansion That Saved New York	Books	2	25	26	N	Y	A political-financial history of the &quot;Dual Contracts&quot;	Peter Derrick's book covers the &quot;Dual Contracts&quot; era of subway construction in New York, when numerous lines were built between 1910 and 1931 by the IRT and the BRT /BMT. Derrick focuses on the interactions between executives of the then-existing subway companies and municipal politicians. Only a few paragraphs cover the &quot;Independent&quot; subway system, which was built after 1931. <br />Endnotes, bibliography, etc., comprise 155 pages of this book, or nearly a third of its pages. There are eight maps and 24 period photographs. There is nothing in this book about station design, track layouts, operating procedures, or rolling stock. In fact, the book ends when construction began. It was a worthy endeavor of historical research to document the political deal-making of this period, but some readers may be disappointed that the author's interest was solely in the back-room political gamesmanship that preceded construction	2001-08-23
US	50658596	RY4SVYZHT4VQW	0226644693	236352085	The Creative Destruction of Manhattan, 1900-1940 (Historical Studies of Urban America)	Books	2	6	17	N	Y	New Yorkers' changing perspective toward demolition	Max Page discusses how the notion of demolition has fit into New York public policy over the decades. The topics of the eight chapters are, after an introductory chapter: the work of the Fifth Avenue Association, a critique of Jacob Riis' views on slum clearance, the controversy over saving the old City Hall, the history of the Museum of the City of New York, policy regarding trees in parks and along streets, a critique of Stokes' multi-volume &quot;Iconography&quot; treatise, and the symbolism of the children's book, &quot;The Little House.&quot; The book has over 70 illustrations, mostly period photos of streetscapes and key buildings.<br />Parts of the book are fascinating, especially Page's critique of the writings of Jacob Riis, the 19th century Danish-American writer and reformer. But as the list above demonstrates, many of the topics of this book are simply too esoteric and remote to be of interest, even to a devoted enthusiast of New York history.	2001-08-22
US	50658596	R1BLRBWHTXSQ26	0375502726	585847413	Eastward to Tartary: Travels in the Balkans, the Middle East, and the Caucasus	Books	3	16	17	N	N	Kaplan revisits his old haunts	Robert Kaplan revisits some of the countries of his previous books, and the end result is a fascinating Hungary-to-Central Asia itinerary, mainly by train and bus. Through it all, he describes how these places have changed and what he predicts for their future. Kaplan's tragic flaw is that he's never content to be a mere travel writer; he's always seeking out deep truths about the world's future, and it is this overreaching that creates the flaws in his books. His normal approach is to describe interviews he's had with local (self-serving?) experts, and from this shaky foundation, extrapolate into the future. In short, this book is not the equal of his earlier work, 'The Ends of the Earth.'<br />In this book, Kaplan's itinerary took him through Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, Turkey, Lebanon, Syria, Jordan, Israel, Georgia, Azerbaijan, Armenia, and Turkmenistan. Very little has been written in English about the last few countries, and Kaplan's book, despite its drawbacks, does introduce the reader to the political and ethnic dynamics of the region.	2001-08-13
US	50658596	R21VNYTM523XJ0	0742500292	141683842	Life in the Air: Surviving the New Culture of Air Travel	Books	3	1	3	N	N	The agony and the ecstasy of the frequent flyer	This has the veneer of academic research, but it's not actually a sociological study despite being written by a professor. Gottdiener writes mainly of his own experiences as a frequent flyer, such as when he was approached by a prostitute at O'Hare, or snowed in at Logan, or became ill at Denver. These first-person narratives are coupled with observations of how people behave in airports and aircraft. The strongest part of the book is about how flying distorts our experience of space and time; the worst parts are where he descends into ranting about how awful flying can be, because of things like people who insist on reading during night flights (Hey, I do that - some of us can't fall asleep merely because they turned the lights off!).	2001-07-30
US	50658596	RCW3LCLYHDJ65	0300035810	122156528	Discovering the Vernacular Landscape	Books	1	17	37	N	N	Meditations upon the meaning of 'landscape'	I was attracted by the title of this book; there's so much to be learned by observing the suburban or rural landscape, which most of us drive through without really noticing or reflecting upon it. Someday a wonderful book will be written on this topic, but this is not it. Instead, John Jackson presents us with a series of 'musings,' for lack of a better word, about the vernacular landscape. At times, the writing takes on a stream-of-consciousness quality that leans too heavily toward personal reflection. Topics include the grid-road network of the US midwest, placement of county courthouses within town plans, the history of the 'box house,' evolution of the Arts &amp; Crafts style of architecture, and the author's experiences in the US Army in Europe during WWII. Intertwined among these topics are passages in which the author reflects upon the notion of 'landscape' and what it means to him.	2001-07-16
US	50658596	RQ4JUPNNOPH7A	0140277986	734655423	Future Perfect: How Star Trek Conquered Planet Earth	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Trekkers around the world + celeb interviews = ?	Greenwald sets out to explain Star Trek's appeal, arguing that interest in the series soared only when the 'real thing' - the moon landings - had come to an end, and there was nothing else to serve as a vent for people's interest in space travel. The author spent time on the set of 'First Contact,' and he travels the world to interview Trekkers in the UK, Japan, Hungary, Germany, Italy, and India, where he describes how each culture puts its own spin on the Trek legacy. As well, he interviews a variety of celebrities about the impact of Trek. It sounds like a great formula, but somehow the end result falls short of its potential. The interviews of fans get a bit tedious, and Greenwald's style of writing up celebrity interviews puts too much emphasis on the interviewer. <br />Celebrities interviewed include Leonard Nimoy, Patrick Stewart, Gates McFadden, Kate Mulgrew (who comes across as the nicest of the bunch), Michael Dorn, Producer/writer Brannon Braga, Kurt Vonnegut, Arthur Clarke, and the Dalai Lama (yes, really).	2001-07-07
US	50658596	R352E9POFCOKI3	1573228168	164151671	The Distance to the Moon: A Road Trip into the American Dream	Books	2	4	5	N	N	A car buff shares his love of the Boxster	James Morgan describes driving a Porsche Boxster from Miami to St. Louis to Portland to San Francisco. Morgan seems like the sort of person who experiences life as a series of car stories, and during the journey, he tells his life history with an emphasis on the automotive angle. The pivotal part of his road trip is in Portland, Oregon, which is famous for its anti-car, pro-transit policies that are known as the &quot;new urbanism.&quot;  Morgan attacks the new urbanists, and wonders why anyone would choose to stand on a windy rain-drenched street waiting for the bus when they could be driving their own car instead. It's particularly ironic when Portland planning specialists use contorted rationalizations to explain why they drive to work instead of taking the public transit that they're forcing down the throats of their fellow residents.<br />Morgan writes well, if you don't mind the autobiographical element overpowering the travel narrative. However, he's a dyed-in-the-wool car buff writing for other car buffs. Unless you're the sort of person who loves talking about cars, you may have difficulty connecting with this author.	2001-06-14
US	50658596	R15F7T7TAVXKGA	0006531113	49276795	Along the Wall and Watchtower: A Journey Down Germany's Divide	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A fascinating journey tracing the route of &quot;The Wall&quot;	Oliver August, the son of East German parents who escaped to West Germany, drives along the route of the now-vanished Wall that separated East from West, and interviews people on both sides of the border along the way. The author is perfectly bilingual and bicultural, and thus in the ideal position to explain to the reader the peculiarities of German behavior and attitudes. The Easterners regard themselves as Germany's second-class citizens and look with nostalgia upon the old East German regime. The final chapter (of 14) is about Berlin, where the author interviews the East German general who supervised the border guards. The author writes well and tells a compelling story of how, despite reunification, the two halves of Germany are far from being able to understand one another. The book has no photos, one diagram, and (only) one map.	2001-06-10
US	50658596	R29PDZ8GITV9TA	0735101329	907831053	Accidental City: The Transformation of Toronto	Books	1	1	2	N	N	A lost opportunity to document Toronto's architecture	This books walks the reader through the history of Toronto with special emphasis on its architecture and city planning. We're introduced to various neighborhoods, and Fulford discusses specific buildings that he regards as either assets or eyesores, often including a bit of historical background on how that building came to be. The great flaw of the book is that there are only 16 pictures. When Fulford discusses a building (for instance, the Commercial Bank of the Midland District at 15 Wellington Street) we're supposed to be able to picture it in our mind's eye, a daunting challenge even for Toronto residents. In the same vein, an entire chapter is dedicated to criticizing the CBC Broadcasting Centre, but nowhere is there any illustration of it.	2001-06-06
US	50658596	R4ZVMIFHDEZVU	067977758X	495129312	In Nevada: The Land, the People, God, and Chance	Books	1	4	5	N	N	Part travelogue, part history book	While Thomson does give reasonable coverage to the history of Las Vegas, most of his book is about the rest of the state - places like Reno, Carson City, the not-so-secret &quot;Area 51,&quot; and the sparsely-populated northwest corner of the state. Thomson's book is part history and part travelogue, although it is arranged in neither chronological order nor in any particular geographical sequence. If there is a theme to this book, it's the effect of atomic bomb testing and nuclear waste disposal on the state, a topic to which Thomson returns repeatedly. The book includes one map and about thirty photos. The book's drawback is that the author seems to be stretching for material to fill the pages. It's as though a student has to write a 5,000-word essay but has only 1,000 words of material. Thomson frequently lapses into empty rhetoric as though to meet some requirement regarding number of pages. Most travel writers interview local people to give their books a human tone, but Thomson seems to have talked to surprisingly few actual Nevadans.  This is unfortunate, because Nevada is one of the more interesting states, and there should be no shortage of interesting characters and places to discover.	2001-06-01
US	50658596	R10LC1QJX7E5XY	0812931076	203482601	AIA Guide to New York City	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Maximum coverage at the cost of excessive brevity	With any guide of this type, there is the dilemma of whether to cover briefly as many buildings as possible, or to cover relatively few buildings in greater depth. This book opted to maximize the number of buildings covered, about 5000 in all, each of which has a 1 x  inch photo and a description that is often a single sentence. Those seeking a more intense treatment of individual buildings will not be satisfied. The emphasis here is on quantity of buildings covered, and of these, roughly half are beyond Manhattan Island. The book, which includes many detailed maps, seems written for someone wandering the streets investigating these buildings on foot, but the very awkward dimensions of this book make it impractical to put in a pocket.	2001-05-21
US	50658596	R14B98R0NNUY4E	0671020617	941667787	No Heroes: Inside the FBI's Secret Counter-Terror Force	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The founder of the FBI's counter-terrorist unit tells all	Whenever the FBI has had a crisis, Coulson seems to have been in the middle of it, whether it's Waco, Ruby Ridge, the Oklahoma City bombing, the Marielito prison riot in Atlanta, and even Iran-Contra. Amidst these events, he established the FBI's first counter-terrorist unit. In this book he recounts these events in fascinating detail, interspersed with descriptions of agency politics and details (way too many details, in fact) of his personal life.  If the book has a flaw, it's the sugar-laden tone of his narrative. Too many times, Coulson tells us how much he loves children and how much he respects his colleagues. It's hard to believe that FBI abuses of power are as rare as Coulson leads us to believe. Nevertheless, it's a page-turner, and a first-person insight into the major law enforcement crises of the past few decades.	2001-05-19
US	50658596	R7YUOJVXN1T62	0671020617	941667787	No Heroes: Inside the FBI's Secret Counter-Terror Force	Books	4	2	3	N	N	The founder of the FBI's counter-terrorist unit tells all	Whenever the FBI has had a crisis, Coulson seems to have been in the middle of it, whether it's Waco, Ruby Ridge, the Oklahoma City bombing, the Marielito prison riot in Atlanta, and even Iran-Contra. Amidst these events, he established the FBI's first counter-terrorist unit. In this book he recounts these events in fascinating detail, interspersed with descriptions of agency politics and details (way too many details, in fact) of his personal life.  If the book has a flaw, it's the sugar-laden tone of his narrative. Too many times, Coulson tells us how much he loves children and how much he respects his colleagues. It's hard to believe that FBI abuses of power are as rare as Coulson leads us to believe. Nevertheless, it's a page-turner, and a first-person insight into the major law enforcement crises of the past few decades.	2001-05-19
US	50658596	R37N4E9LG8A6D9	1568362854	212574824	Inside the Oval Office: The White House Tapes from FDR to Clinton	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Management styles from FDR to Clinton	Doyle's unorthodox book is a survey of the differing management styles of eleven presidents, FDR through Clinton. The book purports to be based on secret presidential tapes. But actual tape transcripts comprise a tiny percentage of the pages of this book, and in any event, there were no surreptitious recordings of conversations after Nixon. Anyone buying this book to read juicy tape transcripts will be disappointed. Instead, this book is a description of how each of the eleven presidents structured his staff, coped with the workload, and made decisions. <br />Some presidents come across very differently than their popular image: For instance, Reagan was a surprisingly hands-on president, while Bush Sr. is portrayed as ineffectual and passive. Clinton fares very poorly in this book due to his lack of organization. It is Johnson, however, that is the most memorable, combining political acumen with incredibly disgusting personal habits. The book, as a whole, walks the reader through a half-century of US history as events were experienced in the Oval Office.	2001-04-24
US	50658596	R67VQIVWF9XI5	0805043683	179935026	Changing Places: Rebuilding Community in the Age of Sprawl	Books	4	11	11	N	N	What have we done to our cities?	Moe and Wilkie describe what has gone wrong with the planning of urban and suburban America, and discuss their solution: a combination of historic preservation, community activism, and more intelligent zoning regulations. Their book is very much in the spirit of New Urbanism - that cities should be looking backward to traditional planning approaches that served us so well before World War II. Memphis gets the most attention in this book, as both a positive and negative example; the authors also focus on New Orleans, Pittsburgh, Denver, St. Paul, Portland (Ore.), and several small towns that revitalized their main streets. Moe and Wilkie write with a journalistic balance that I found refreshing, in contrast to the rabid ranting of certain other books. Even when describing Disney's failed effort to build a theme park in northern Virginia, the authors resist the trap of making Disney sound like the heart of evil, and allow the reader to understand the situation from Disney's perspective. The only drawback is that even though the book is about historic preservation and urban planning, there are only 20 illustrations.	2001-04-23
US	50658596	R3UWOUB35C3NN9	0688174493	540663973	The Keys to the Kingdom: How Michael Eisner Lost His Grip	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Hardball in the Disney executive suite	If you don't recognize names like Ovitz, Katzenberg, or Eisner, this book is probably too insider-oriented to be of interest, because Kim Masters goes into extraordinary detail about Michael Eisner, who perennially brings the wrong kind of attention upon himself due to his stellar pay package. When options are included, Eisner's pay is regularly in the hundreds of millions per year, a figure that defies explanation except that Eisner had stacked the board with his cronies. Eisner comes across as no genius, but neither is he stupid nor is he the boss-from-hell. True, Eisner does have an abrasive style and a fragile ego, but this is probably unremarkable among Hollywood movie moguls. Oddly, the book seems to be more about Katzenberg, who appears to have been the author's main source. Katzenberg eventually became Eisner's right-hand man, only to lose his job, allegedly because Eisner could not tolerate a strong person in the Number 2 position. The book's engaging style sweeps the reader into a world where 7-day weeks and 20-hour days (gulp!) were considered normal, and where even top-performing executives were cannon fodder on the battlefield of office politics.	2001-04-23
US	50658596	R2B5NOZL7Z3RB5	1558491066	245172853	A Better Place to Live: Reshaping the American Suburb	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Why can't suburbs be like real communities?	Langdon's book is a gentle and articulate introduction to New Urbanism - the notion that our cities and our suburbs are a mess, and that in their place, we should have higher residential densities, mixed-use zoning, and pedestrian-oriented design. Langdon extols the benefits of the traditional street grid, and bemoans suburban developers' fascination with &quot;pods&quot; (i.e., clusters of cul-de-sacs). The author highlights the design of individual houses, and describes various ways of hiding garages and &quot;granny apartments.&quot;  Places given special attention include Seaside (Fla.), Kentlands (Md.), Laguna West (Cal.), Portland (Ore.), Kirkland (Wa.), and Bellevue (Wa.). The book is profusely illustrated with well over a hundred photographs and diagrams, a welcome change from authors who feel they can discuss this topic at length without a single illustration.	2001-04-23
US	50658596	R3JZJB8ITJPYNT	0684837374	612083066	Home from Nowhere: Remaking Our Everyday World for the 21st Century	Books	4	14	14	N	N	The alternative to suburban sprawl and dead inner cities	This might well become the bible of New Urbanism - the notion that planners should imitate turn-of-the-century townscapes, with their high densities, mixed uses, and streets designed with the pedestrian in mind. Lengthy case studies describe success stories of New Urbanism: Seaside (Fla.), Boca Raton (Fla.), Memphis, Columbus, Providence, Corning, and Kentlands (Md.). There are also stories of where it failed due to local opposition: Lagana West (Cal.), Mashpee (Mass.), Chatham (NY), Homestead (Fla.), and Brooklyn. Oddly, there are almost no illustrations of these projects - a glaring flaw in an otherwise brilliant book. Page after page describes innovative planning initiatives in enormous detail, where the material cries out for a photo or diagram.<br />Kunstler has a tendency to wander: There's a chapter about an organic farmer, a chapter about African-American history culminating in the author's recommendation that many black kids should be put in orphanages (huh?), and two chapters that are essentially autobiographical. Also, the occasional use of words like &quot;crudscape&quot; adds spark to his writing, but Kunstler sometimes gets carried away by his own emotions. The author's description of a zoning dispute in his hometown of Saratoga Springs is so venomous and vulgar that he hurts only his own credibility. Kunstler should keep in mind that not everyone who opposes the New Urbanism is &quot;evil&quot; (his overused adjective), but rather are responding to the fact that people do like malls, large house lots, and travelling short distances by car, however harmful these preferences might be to the larger fabric of our metropolitan areas.	2001-04-14
US	50658596	R178B0NGIYC5A8	0571201164	267347478	Underground	Books	3	0	1	N	N	A murder mystery in London's human gerbil tubes	Anyone who has visited London will remember the stations on the London underground (&quot;subway&quot; to Americans). In the deepest stations, elevators carry passengers to the bowels of the earth, where they trek through narrow, twisting, tubular passageways to the train platform. It can easily be claustrophobic, and during slack periods, a little spooky. Other passageways, leading to abandoned elevator shafts or abandoned air raid shelters, are barricaded. This is the setting of Tobias Hill's murder mystery, in which a subway maintenance worker who knows his station like the palm of his hand, matches wits against a murderer who knows the station even more intimately. This novel has great potential as a screenplay, with some visuals that would translate well to the silver screen. However, there is a &quot;b plot&quot; consisting of flashbacks to the lead character's childhood, that detracted seriously from the main plot. Also, while the action scenes were well-written, I had difficulty following certain other aspects of the plot.	2001-04-09
US	50658596	RMLI68FFWSFFV	0801861098	177381815	Fast Food: Roadside Restaurants in the Automobile Age (The Road and American Culture)	Books	2	11	14	N	N	As dry as a fast food hamburger	This could best be described as a detailed history of chain-restaurants (not just fast food). It opens with a history of 'quick-service' eating establishments in the US, taking the reader through the history of tea rooms, roadside stands, diners, and other more recent permutations. Most of the book is devoted to histories of chain-restaurant companies, which amount to something less than riveting reading. The authors have thoroughly researched the history of every restaurant chain in painstaking detail, but rarely are these written in a way that makes for a gripping story. An exception is the Indiana-based 'Snappy Service' chain (closed in 1983), which is described in a way that brings its entrepreneur to life. The last chapter describes the pattern of chain restaurants that evolved in Springfield, Illinois. The book is profusely illustrated with well over a hundred photos and dozens of maps. One glaring error appears in a series of five maps (pp. 154-157) analyzing McDonald's domination of rival chains, in which the ratio of McDonald's to competitors was inverted.	2001-03-03
US	50658596	R2N26VP448INPM	0679751238	939095964	The Ends of the Earth: From Togo to Turkmenistan, from Iran to Cambodia, a Journey to the Frontiers of Anarchy	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A tour of countries teetering on anarchy	In this, the best of Kaplan's books, he seeks out the areas undergoing gut-wrenching change in search of broader lessons of the world's future. He travels between Guinea and Togo, mainly by bus, and later travels from Uzbekistan, to western China, to Pakistan by a combination of bus and rail. Other chapters describe his visits to Egypt, Turkey, Iran, India, Thailand, and Indochina, all involving overland journeys through the countryside, not just forays into the national capitals. Kaplan's larger point is that the system of sovereign nations is dissolving and being replaced by a struggle between the world's poor versus the world's well-off. As Kaplan describes the chaos of contrived political entities such as Pakistan, Liberia, and Togo, his arguments are convincing, although he readily acknowledges he chose his itinerary with the intention of demonstrating his point.	2001-02-21
US	50658596	R3JW473UU4M6GK	1585671436	404555841	One Foot in Laos	Books	1	22	29	N	N	The famous Irish travel writer visits the Laos war zone	Dervla Murphy, a dauntless sixtysomething woman from Ireland, decides to explore Laos on foot. Although she begins in Vientiane, Murphy quickly gets off the beaten path and visits areas inaccessible by road. At one point, she injures her foot (hence the book's name) and resorts to a bicycle, while at other times she uses bus, boat, and an airplane. I found this to be the most disappointing of Murphy's books. Normally, what brings travel narratives to life is the conversation between the traveller and the locals. But there's relatively little of that here, since Murphy doesn't have a common language with these people. The author instead fills innumerable pages with her political musings. She hates Americans, who she describes as 'consistently evil,' and reminds the reader of this every few pages. Americans are hardly heros in the history of Laos, but 'beating a dead horse' is the apt idiom here. She sees the Pathet Lao, in contrast, as the angels of Laotian history, and their abuses of human rights are excused or glossed over. She explains how low-level government employees were incarcerated in 're-education camps' for years, but does intellectual somersaults to explain it away as resembling a summer camp. Murphy also falls into the trap of idealizing third-world poverty. She sees such things as electricity and paved roads as a cancer upon society, and sings the praises of subsistence agriculture. This is ironic considering that Murphy's homeland, Ireland, wasn't exactly a utopia in its subsistence-agriculture era, yet she would gleefully freeze the Laotians in that stage of development if she could. All in all, this book is a sad let-down from a writer whose earlier work comprises so many memorable travel narratives.	2001-02-15
US	50658596	R7CT8DRJR0KA0	006095373X	207910478	In Siberia	Books	3	21	25	N	N	Great subject matter but it's not a &quot;pageturner&quot;	'In Siberia' is about the author's trek from the Ural Mountains to Magadan in northeastern Siberia, using train, bus, truck, boat, and air. Colin Thubron is not the most engaging of travel writers. He isn't witty, he reveals little of himself, and he isn't good at building his travel narratives around a theme or 'hook.' Thubron's approach is more like that of a journalist - to document what happens to him, what he sees, and the people he encounters. <br />The low spots of the book are due to Thubron's habit of getting bogged down in pointless, over-long interviews. In one instance he spends too much space on a crank-physicist who claims that 'magnetic waves' can cure any disease, and later, on a fringe-archeologist who claims the first humans evolved in Siberia. A couple of pages on these eccentrics might be amusing, but Thubron doesn't know when to move on. Still, the book is of value because it documents an intriguing region at a turning point in history. He describes communities far away from roads and rail lines and, thanks to his fluent Russian, he interviews people there and describes how they see the world. Perhaps most important are his descriptions of the abandoned prison camps, some of which have never been viewed by westerners, and which are scheduled to be bulldozed. His accounts of what the Soviet government did in these camps will stick with the reader long after the book is finished.	2001-02-03
US	50658596	R1Y01KR9BLL288	0316652288	715993299	Almost Heaven: Travels Through the Backwoods of America	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A Brit explores the USA at its weirdest	British journalist Martin Fletcher sets out to discover &quot;the other America,&quot; by which he means rural America. During his journey, which is limited to the South and Rocky Mountain states, he seeks out America at its weirdest. He interviews snake-handling fundamentalists, UFO cultists, polygamists, Ku Klux Klanners, militia groups, and moonshiners.  He visits the US's poorest counties, several Indian reservations, and an island where Black Americans still speak an African dialect. He drops in on an illegal cockfight and a legal brothel.  A great deal of page space is given to Louisiana's infamous 18,000 acre Angola Prison, where he seems to have been given free rein to talk to everyone.  Here it is, folks - the US at its most embarrassing and most depressing. Fletcher is writing for a British audience, and apparently the Brits eat up this stuff - they like looking down at the US because it takes their minds off the fact that they live in a country that hasn't yet discovered central heating.<br />Yet, I give it a good rating because as much as I dislike the book's premise, it's hard to put down. It's the book equivalent of the Jerry Springer Show: As repulsive as it may be, it's riveting to watch, and the same is true of Fletcher's book. Nevertheless, I cringe to think what impression it leaves with non-US readers.	2001-01-16
US	50658596	R2PDUWWDOOU1K6	0061015458	424782742	Shadows Of A Princess: An Intimate Account by Her Private Secretary	Books	2	3	7	N	N	Uneven writing from Diana's personal secretary	Jephson was Diana's &quot;private secretary,&quot; really more of a chief-of-staff, and his tell-all book is the latest entry regarding Diana. He joined Diana's staff when the marriage was already on the rocks, and left in 1996. It's hard to believe this book was written entirely by one person, given the shifts in tone and style of writing. The book begins with Jephson describing what it was like to be interviewed for a job by Diana, and nuts-and-bolts anecdotes like trying to find the lunchroom in Buckingham Palace. The middle of the book is tough slogging, as Jephson spends far too many pages describing the princess's personality in general terms - an approach that's interesting at first but loses its charm for the reader quite quickly. At the end, Diana decided to fire him: She sent nasty anonymous messages to his pager, and then when he actually resigned, she threw a temper tantrum.  <br />The book is fascinating in places, but very uneven in quality and over-long. Jephson tells us that Diana tended to be tempermental and prone to mood swings, but he also describes at length her natural gift for relating to the unfortunate, and her knack for shining at official functions.	2000-11-13
US	50658596	R10XXOXQKIKYAG	1575001438	688305496	Survivor : The Ultimate Game	Books	1	5	6	N	N	A failed attempt to document a great TV series	This book is not what it might have been with a bit more effort and a bit more candor from the writers. With a few exceptions, it offers nothing new to those who followed the series. Each episode is described, and although there's some additional detail and background material, fans hoping for a 'tell-all' expos will be disappointed. We are told such new material as Colleen's health being even worse than viewers saw. (Couldn't the on-site doctors do anything? - and we don't mean Sean). We are told a bit more detail about the political machinations toward the end; Sean comes across even worse than he did on TV. The book also describes how the crew got caught up in the morality-play dimensions of the series, and shared most viewers' revulsion of how the gentler characters got voted off early while the nastiest ended up on top - sadly, like real life. Oddly, some of the show's most memorable moments aren't even mentioned, such as Rudy's repeatedly saying &quot;I dunno&quot; during the face-mask challenge, Greg's &quot;pick a number&quot; question to the two finalists, or Rich's not knowing the name of Rudy's wife. The show's most dramatic moment - Sue's emotional tirade to Kelly in the final episode - is described only in cursory terms. The lead author is the show's executive producer, leading to an irritating self-congratulatory tone at times. The book concludes with a  four-page interview with Richard Hatch.	2000-09-30
US	50658596	R131GI91JXHUWO	0375707042	412546475	The European Tribe	Books	1	11	17	N	N	Europe through the eyes of a Black Englishman	Phillips' travels, which occurred before the fall of Communism, cover Morocco, Gibralter, Spain, France, Italy, Netherlands, Ireland, Germany, Poland, Norway, and the Soviet Union.<br />Any travel narrative needs a 'hook' or a theme, and Phillips' is to seek out things that he can particularly relate to, as an Englishman of Black descent. He identifies with the plight of European Jews, and in other countries he highlights encounters with local Blacks. He seems to be straining for material at times, and oddly, rarely goes out of his way to seek out the local Black community, instead relying on happenstance. Yet, as he points out, the results of the Caribbean diaspora are everywhere: Even in northern Norway, he encounters another emigrant from the English-speaking Caribbean. Norway is also the occasion where the author loses his temper due to one-too-many racist incidents, and the target of his eruption is, of all things, a Norwegian customs officer. Phillips is paranoid about the revival of fascism in Europe, but perhaps that's understandable as he recounts racist slights and insults (some quite shocking to this white reader) that occur during his travels, as well as from his life in the US and UK.	2000-09-21
US	50658596	R1OYMVGLU0VT7T	0679776877	237601957	An Empire Wilderness: Travels into America's Future	Books	1	11	15	N	N	A premature obituary for the United States	Kaplan travels throughout the western US (except California, Nevada, or  Utah), and also travels to Mexico and British Columbia, to seek the real  meaning of the US and to divine its future. A lot of attention is given to  Arizona, where the author emphasizes the economic/racial divide in cities  like Tucson and Phoenix, as well as the numbing hopelessness of Indian  reservations. Kaplan argues that the notion of nationhood is crumbling due  to globalization coupled with economic and racial polarization. Hence, the  Tucson underclass has more allegiance to the working class of Mexico than  to the abstract concept of the United States, and similarly, Tucson's  educated lite has more allegiance to their counterparts in Canada or  Europe than to the United States as a nation. In short, Kaplan argues that  patriotism is an obsolete concept.<br />As an essay on the meaning of the US,  the author seems to overreach in making his point; it would have worked  better as a magazine essay. As a travelogue, the book relies too heavily on  interviews with community leaders who give the usual predictable  platitudes. The best part of the book is the chapter where Kaplan forsakes  his car to travel by bus, which turns out to be a rolling bin of the  homeless and mentally ill. The weakest part deals with Vancouver, where the  author appears to have been sucked in by local boosters who are convinced  that their province will join Oregon and Washington to form a new political  entity. Kaplan gushes about Vancouver but is blind to its horrible  transportation problems, its poverty, and its racial friction. The author's  earlier book, 'The Ends of the Earth,' was a superb work of  travel-journalism, but 'An Empire Wilderness' is not its equal.	2000-09-10
US	50658596	R1KRNBVK4I7UFK	1883089476	840773586	New York Central's Stations and Terminals	Books	4	16	16	N	N	A tribute to the big-city railroad stations of the NYC	Doughty focuses on the Central's major urban stations: Those given the  most pages are Chicago (LaSalle St.), Toledo, Buffalo, Rochester, Syracuse,  Utica, Albany, Grand Central, Cleveland, Cincinnati, Boston, and Detroit.  Most of the page space is filled with black and white photos from earlier  eras, although 12 pages have color photos, and there are also some floor  plans and track diagrams. The text portion is limited but discusses why  each station was built, its unique features, and current status. Most  intriguing to me are the Buffalo and Detroit stations, which have high-rise  office buildings attached and are currently abandoned hulks - buildings  which are uneconomic to renovate yet too expensive to tear down.	2000-09-10
US	50658596	R2LM4WV260C5VB	1580930565	576818247	American Ruins	Books	3	8	9	N	N	A photographic essay of abandoned urban buildings	Vergara's photographic essay takes the unusual approach of studying  abandoned buildings in Detroit, Gary, Harlem, South Bronx, Newark, and  Philadelphia/Camden. Detroit is the most interesting of all, where there  are so many abandoned skyscrapers that Vergara suggests they be converted  into a sort of museum-of-urban-ruins. He has a point, since Detroit has  many buildings that are too expensive to rehabilitate and too expensive to  tear down. Understandably, this is not how Detroit's community leaders  envision gaining fame for their downtown.<br />If one were to find fault, it  would be that too many buildings are covered in too shallow a manner. Some  of these abandoned Detroit buildings are fascinating, and it's a shame  Vergara gives so little detail about them. Many pages are devoted to  trivial, minor buildings, and there are photos showing such things as  rotting dog carcasses in the street, which are interesting in their own  right but not directly relevant to the title.	2000-09-06
US	50658596	R4YKUBOJ13K5L	1580930565	576818247	American Ruins	Books	3	4	6	N	N	A photographic essay of abandoned urban buildings	Vergara's photographic essay takes the unusual approach of studying  abandoned buildings in Detroit, Gary, Harlem, South Bronx, Newark, and  Philadelphia/Camden. Detroit is the most interesting of all, where there  are so many abandoned skyscrapers that Vergara suggests they be converted  into a sort of museum-of-urban-ruins. He has a point, since Detroit has  many buildings that are too expensive to rehabilitate and too expensive to  tear down. Understandably, this is not how Detroit's community leaders  envision gaining fame for their downtown.<br />If one were to find fault, it  would be that too many buildings are covered in too shallow a manner. Some  of these abandoned Detroit buildings are fascinating, and it's a shame  Vergara gives so little detail about them. Many pages are devoted to  trivial, minor buildings, and there are photos showing such things as  rotting dog carcasses in the street, which are interesting in their own  right but not directly relevant to the title.	2000-09-06
US	50658596	R4AP2DE3PP891	0684859718	666165371	Deadly Decisions	Books	2	7	7	N	N	A plot driven by long-distance coincidences	Here's the formula: As Montreal's forensic anthropologist, the narrator  encounters a series of grizzly murders - so far, so good. An old friend in  the Carolinas just happens to have key information that allows a  breakthrough - what luck! A dysfunctional relative from Texas visits as a  houseguest, and just happens to have Texas-based ties to the culprits in  Montreal. Inevitably, people associated with the perpetrators will  physically attack the narrator, but through a lucky break she survives and  cracks the case. This is the formula that Reichs uses in both her second  and third novels, but it's a very tired and flawed plot structure. She  needs to find some way to advance the plot without relying so heavily on a  series of cross-national coincidences.  This novel, which introduces us to  Montreal's cycle-gang subculture, is better than her second, 'Death du  Jour,' but still no match for her first novel, 'Deja Dead.'	2000-09-06
US	50658596	RCTHTUWF49DY6	0060929839	106345183	Out of the Ashes: The Resurrection of Saddam Hussein	Books	3	15	17	N	N	Life inside the regime of Saddam Hussein	This book will fascinate anyone with a deep interest in the Gulf War. The  Cockburns show us what was happening on the other side, within Iraq. We're  given a rich portrait of what life is like in Hussein's inner circle, the  functioning of the various anti-Hussein factions, and the CIA's  unsuccessful efforts to foment Hussein's overthrow. Hussein's atrocities  are fully documented, as is the incompetence of the CIA - no one comes out  of this book smelling like a rose. The Cockburns argue that the US should  have pushed on to Baghdad during the Gulf War, and they're harsh toward the  US for its naive hope that somehow, against all odds, someone will  overthrow Hussein. The most shocking part of the book is an account of an  attempted CIA-backed coup in 1996, in which the CIA allowed the coup to go  forward in spite of hard evidence that Iraqi authorities had advance  knowledge. The result was that many Iraqi dissidents, working under the  CIA's leadership, were sent to their imprisonment and death.<br />The  Cockburns harshly criticize the US's ongoing blockade of Iraq, despite  their own account of Hussein's determination to develop biological,  chemical, and nuclear weapons. The Cockburns end their book with the  prediction that somehow the Iraqi people will rise up against Hussein. Yet  the authors spent most of the book criticizing the US for taking exactly  that same stance - naively hoping for an uprising.  This glaring  inconsistency is an incredible flaw in an otherwise fascinating book.	2000-08-22
US	50658596	R1Y4ACW7YBW4O1	0804727988	929799511	Erie Lackawanna: The Death of an American Railroad, 1938-1992	Books	3	15	15	N	N	A focus on the railroad's financial history	The Erie Lackawanna, whose main line was New York-Chicago, was one of the  more interesting US railroads. It was originally laid with a  wider-than-standard track gauge, had wider clearances than competing  railroads, and had unusually mild gradients, at least in Indiana and  western Ohio. However, throughout its history, it was always clinging on  for dear life, never a truly credible competitor against the larger  railroads. Today, it's little more than a memory, and much of its main line  track has been lifted.  It's a shame, because railroad rights-of-way are  impossible to assemble in this day and age. As the author points out, Erie  Lackawanna would have been perfect as a 1990s-style carrier dedicated to  container and `piggyback' trains, thanks to its generous clearances. The  Erie Lackawanna was also noteworthy for avoiding all significant cities  between New York and Chicago - a liability in its heyday, but an asset in  the container era.<br />This book might more accurately be labeled a  `financial history.' We're given an incredible depth of information about  securities, taxation, business practices at headquarters, and biographical  information of executives; the end result is thorough but something less  than riveting. The most interesting portions describe the organizational  turmoil resulting from Erie's acquisition of the Lackawanna, and the later  acquisition by Conrail. Sadly, there is very little regarding rolling  stock, stations, details of its route, or operating practices.  This book  has four excellent maps and about 20 black and white photos of rolling  stock, plus various miscellaneous photos, especially formal pictures of  executives.	2000-08-22
US	50658596	R12UGXILV1VI83	0945213174	826714244	Icelandic Essays: Explorations in the Anthropology of Modern Life	Books	1	2	5	N	N	Modern Icelandic society for the non-academic reader	Paul Durrenberger is a US-based anthropologist who has made modern Iceland the focus of his academic research. This book is not a scholarly treatise, but rather a first-hand narrative about the author's experiences as he tries to learn the Icelandic language while working on a farm and insert himself into day-to-day Icelandic life. Although it's not exactly a page-turner, since modern Icelandic life isn't all that exciting or weird, this would be excellent reading for someone planning on visiting Iceland, who wants to go beyond the hackneyed tourist sites and learn something about the people. The book's fatal drawback is Durrenberger's insistance on inserting his left-wing opinions about US politics at every opportunity; he doesn't seem to realize that people are buying the book to learn about Iceland, not to get a lecture about US politics.	2000-07-03
US	50658596	RW6AT42FNWM3L	0226109496	134490921	Real Places: An Unconventional Guide to America's Generic Landscape	Books	1	9	15	N	N	An encyclopedia of small-scale urban and rural geography	This profusely-illustrated book consists of approximately 120 mini-essays on a slew of topics that relate in some way to urban planning and urban geography, although there's quite a bit on rural geography as well.  For  some idea of the content, here are the first five of his essay headings, if  they had been in alphabetical order: Abandoned farm/town, active zone  (i.e., crime zone), air rights zone, airspace, annexation area, all the way  to 'wreck site' at the end of the alphabet.<br />The essays are of uneven  quality, and often seem a bit shallow. It's not entertaining enough to  succeed as a popular book, and not analytical enough to succeed as a  serious treatise.  There's a niche for a book that would address topics of  small-scale geography in the not-quite-rural but not-city-center places in  which most of us spend our lives.  Such a book might explain the different  ingredients of suburban sprawl -- types of shopping centers, commercial  strips, and housing developments, how they develop, how they affect the  surrounding area, and how they age. Sadly, this book seemed pointed in that  direction but fell short.	2000-07-03
US	50658596	R1O3MBVYHSLULC	0684841185	466385534	Death du Jour	Books	2	4	4	N	N	A pyramid of coincidences	There is a rule of thumb that no novel should have more than one significant coincidence, and it's a shame Kathy Reichs never heard of that principle. In this novel, the protagonist just happens to be personally  affected by seemingly unrelated events in South Carolina, North Carolina,  Texas, and Quebec, and it just so happens that each of these subplots tie  in to each other culminating in the grand climax. After the first couple  chapters, it was painfully obvious how the author had structured the plot.  In any mystery where the protagonist is not a law enforcement officer,  there is dilemma in plot construction of how the protagonist gets his or  her information. It is at this point that Reichs has dropped the ball:  Coincidences spanning three states and one Canadian province are not a  solid foundation for a compelling novel.  <br />Reich's previous novel had  appeal because of the Montreal setting, and because the specialty of  'forensic anthropologist' provides an interesting vehicle for a murder  mystery. Those types of 'hooks' may succeed with a writer's first novel,  but are not enough to sustain a second novel, especially when compounded by  such difficulties of plot construction.	2000-06-14
US	50658596	R3O07BXCFI8NRM	0753810131	41683339	Ice Tea and Elvis: A Saunter Through the Southern States	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Another Brit goes adventuring through the US South	One could fill a bookshelf with books by Brits writing about the South. Their usual approach is to interview people loitering outside bus stations in the poorer section of town, and surprise, surprise, such interviews  create the image of Southerners as incredibly ignorant, and the non-US  reader gets a good laugh at 'those stupid Americans.'  Middleton does a bit  of that, but to his credit, he approaches the South with a more positive  orientation than most writers have done. Middleton mainly follows the  tourist's route, using rented car, bus, and train, although he also gets  off the beaten path to investigate places like the Mississippi Delta  region. Because of his even-handedness, the end result is not as fun to  read as a book that ridicules the South, but it's a more solid, more  balanced book than most of its genre. Middleton has a good sense of humour  and frequently takes jabs at Southern (and American) idiosyncrasies, but he  also takes pains to point out the positive and educate the reader about  Southern history. It would be ideal for someone outside the US planning on  visiting the South, but  it's not exactly a page-turner.	2000-06-14
US	50658596	R1V5IZ3L4PUBFE	0349111456	727385814	A Nice Time Being Had by All	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A flippant romp through four continents	Peter Biddlecombe has carved out a niche writing silly, amusing travel essays about his business travels, seasoned with the occasional profound observation of why some countries are hives of prosperity while others are  starving. He is not among the politically correct -- brace yourself for  snide remarks about local customs. But at his best, he's amusing and  informative. At his worst, he's just obnoxious.<br />This volume has an  ex-Soviet theme to it, covering St. Petersburg, Kaliningrad, Yerevan,  Tbilisi, and Chisinau. He also visits the three Guyanese capitals  (Paramaribo, Cayenne, Georgetown), Luanda (one of his better, serious  essays on Africa's challenges), Maputo, Victoria Falls, Gaberone (Botswanna  being one of Africa's success stories), Tehran, Damascus, Phnom Penh, Luang  Prabang (Laos), Caracas, St. John's (Antigua), and Ponce (Puerto Rico).  That last one was the weakest of the batch -- endless puns on the word  &quot;Ponce&quot; become tiresome very quickly.	2000-06-02
US	50658596	R2K9MVAVXRH0AJ	0679753761	343819233	Far Afield	Books	2	10	15	N	N	An introduction to life in the Faeroe Islands	This is the sort of book where the exotic locale is the novel's sole strength. Few people have heard of the Faeroe Islands (a Danish possession north of Scotland), but those with an interest might enjoy this fictitious  tale of an American anthropologist. The Faeroes are one of Europe's  remotest corners, where people still pursue such customs as killing whales,  eating sheep eyeballs, and (most shocking) slowly killing the household cat  as an appeasement to the gods. The characterizations and the plot are too  thin to sustain this novel; if it were set in (for instance) Maine, no one  would ever give it a second look. The love-story-subplot is especially  disappointing, consisting of the lead character obsessing over an airline  clerk who is not equally interested in him, but who appears to be the only  available woman in the country -- or at least that's the impression the  reader is left with. Nevertheless, for those fascinated by remote  Scandinavian locales, this in-depth look at Faroese life might be worth a  read.	2000-05-10
US	50658596	R37S6S18VSN5QE	0312253192	31844328	Frost on my Moustache: The Arctic Exploits of a Lord and a Loafer	Books	2	1	1	N	N	The components of this book didn't quite gel	This book had the ingredients of a great travel book. First, the author is very witty at times. Second, he chose Iceland, which is one of Europe's more intriguing nations, and the fact that his wife is Icelandic gives him  some bicultural insights. Third, travel books need some sort of 'hook' or  theme, and Moore's theme is to retrace the travels of Lord Dufferin, a  19th-century adventurer. Moore starts with an overview of life in Iceland  (the best part), discusses a cross-Iceland bicycle journey (too many pages  dedicated to a fairly uneventful trip), then describes a boat trip from  Iceland to Norway (during which he's incapacitated by seasickness), and  eventually works his way north to the Norwegian island of Svalbard. One of  the reasons this book didn't 'work' for me is that the author comes across  as a disagreeable person. He tries to be funny and entertaining, but refers  to his outbursts of temper directed at others often enough that one is left  wondering how disagreeable Tim Moore really is in real life.	2000-05-10
US	50658596	R1GXYW9A4DD6OI	0753503603	260941926	Royal Babylon: The Alarming History of European Royalty	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Trashy, but a good read nonetheless	No legitimate historian would be caught dead with this book. Shaw has gone through a bookcase of European history books and assembled all the trashy tidbits, especially where sex or personal hygiene is concerned. The end  result is a very, very strange book. Focusing mainly on European monarchs  of the 1700s and 1800s, the author details the shocking excesses of the  royals, with an emphasis on the sexual. Attention is mainly on the  monarchies of Britain (before the reign of Elizabeth II), France, Germany,  and Russia, with secondary attention on Belgium, Poland, Portugal, Spain,  and Austria. The people discussed are all long-dead; look elsewhere for a  recounting of the Charles-and-Di story. The author assumes the reader has  some background in European history. Historians will sneer at this book,  but it kept me amused during a long day of flying and sitting in airports.  It also reminds us that the potential to abuse power is bottomless, and it  reminds us why we fought a revolution to get rid of the British monarchy  (oops, I forgot -- I live in Canada).	2000-04-27
US	50658596	R13D7LBOSTS9UW	0316076643	576178579	Travels With My Briefcase: Around the World - On Expenses	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A delightful update on the author's first book	Peter Biddlecombe has carved out a niche writing silly, amusing travel essays about his business travels, seasoned with the occasional profound observation of why some countries are hives of prosperity while others are  starving. He is not among the politically correct -- brace yourself for  mother-in-law jokes and snide remarks about local customs. But at his best,  he's amusing and informative. At his worst, he's just obnoxious.<br />This  volume has a distinct Franco-African theme, which seems to be Biddlecombe's  area of greatest expertise, and where he veers away from frivolity and  comes nearest to being profound. The book is in some respects an update of  his first volume, 'French Lessons in Africa.' Of 19 essays, five are from  francophone Africa, four are from southeast Asia, three from South America,  and a sprinkling of others to round out the book.	2000-04-08
US	50658596	ROLL7MSW8MZH0	0316078905	963911473	Faster, They're Gaining	Books	4	1	1	N	N	He veers from the silly to the profound	Peter Biddlecombe is part of that sub-genre that might be called 'silly travel writing.' This book, one of six in a series, consists of essays about 17 cities. In one paragraph he's silly, the next paragraph has a  profound insight about economic development, and then he goes on to make  mother-in-law jokes or talk about how ugly the local women are --  definitely not a style that will appeal to everyone. When the author  retires, I hope he'll write a tell-all story of his career; I suspect  there's more depth to Peter Biddlecombe than we see in his writing.<br />This  volume has a distinct Middle Eastern theme, with chapters on Jerusalem,  Gaza (a very serious and thoughtful essay), Riyadh (some hilarious  anecdotes), Kuwait, Doha, Muscat, and Abu Dhabi, and a variety of cities  from other regions of the world.	2000-04-08
US	50658596	R2H2F79865QGDY	0316076570	491296189	I Came I Saw I Lost My Luggage	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The best of Biddlecombe's series of travel essays	Peter Biddlecombe has carved out a niche writing silly, amusing travel essays about his business travels, seasoned with the occasional profound observation of why some countries are hives of prosperity while others are  starving. He is not among the politically correct -- brace yourself for  mother-in-law jokes and snide remarks about local customs. But at his best,  he's amusing and informative. At his worst, he's just obnoxious.<br />This  volume, perhaps the best and most serious of his series of six books, has  essays on 20 places. There seems to be a Nordic theme (Helsinki,  Copenhagen, Reykjavik, and the Baltic States, that last being the best of  the book). There's also a Middle-Europe theme (Vienna, Budapest, an  excellent essay on Bratislava, and a chapter on Warsaw that includes a  deeply serious reflection on Auschwitz). Among other regions of the world,  his essay on Managua is one of his best, but some may be turned off by his  anti-abortion rant that seems jarringly contrary to Biddlecombe's usual  style. The chapter on Abidjan is an excellent essay on how France uses the  'CFA Franc' to promote African prosperity while keeping its ex-colonies  tied to Paris.	2000-04-08
US	50658596	R20KQK19MLIYKU	0863722296	179789975	The Making of the Modern Gulf States: Kuwait, Bahrain, Qatar, The United Arab Emirates and Oman	Books	1	18	18	N	N	A dry and uncritical introduction	Zahlan covers the history of the Gulf states with special emphasis on the history of the various monarchical families. Sadly, her attitude is unflinchingly fawning; she seems afraid to say one negative thing about  these countries and their economic and political challenges. As well, the  writing style is very dry and wooden. Her bias is symbolized by one of the  maps showing the UAE as extending westward all the way to Dawhat as Salwa,  at the southwest base of Qatar. This reflects absurdly ambitious  territorial claims of the UAE at a time when the Saudis have claimed the  coast in the vicinity of Khawr Duwayhin, southeast of Qatar. This map is  emblematic of the book's flaws. A much better book despite its age (1980)  is 'Arabia, the Gulf, &amp; the West' by J.B. Kelly.	2000-03-28
US	50658596	R1NFGFTY1V9IM7	0375501819	474214507	24/7: Living it Up and Doubling Down in the New Las Vegas	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A delightful perspective on the &quot;new&quot; Las Vegas	Martinez's book is well written, but it's his wonderful sense of humor that makes it such a delight. The author goes to Las Vegas with $50K in his pocket and the assignment to write a book about losing it all. Alas, even  though Martinez is naive in the world of gambling, he never runs out of  money, all the while enjoying his comps and sharing his wild ride with the  reader. At times the card-by-card reporting gets a bit tedious, but the  book's good points overshadow the weaknesses.	2000-03-28
US	50658596	R1BDLRW6CKH0Z9	0553095021	782641067	Super Casino: Inside the "New" Las Vegas	Books	4	7	8	N	N	How they tried to make the Luxor a highbrow establishment	The book is divided into two parts. The first part was so-so; the second part was great. Part One is a rehash of the history of Las Vegas, with a special emphasis on the two competing firms, Bennett's Circus Circus (lowbrow) vs. Wynn's Mirage/Golden Nugget (highbrow). It's not bad, but  it's old hat to anyone who follows the Vegas scene.  It's Part Two of the  book that I really enjoyed. We follow an effort to remodel the Luxor hotel  and convert it from a lowbrow to a luxury establishment -- not an easy task  when the budget keeps getting slashed. Along the way, we see the casino  through the eyes of various management employees who do battle with  cheaters as well as fight their office-politics battles with each other.  The company gave the author free rein to nose around, and they probably  regret it, because he's written a candid portrayal of casino mangers at  their best as well as at their worst.	2000-03-12
US	50658596	R38H6S2Q9ONOW4	1851589899	389816614	London, England: A Day-Tripper's Travelogue from the Coolest City in the World	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Flippant, silly, but still delightful light reading	Hammond's book falls within that subgenre that might be labeled 'silly travel writing,' a niche also occupied by such writers as Nick Middleton, Peter Biddlecombe, and Bill Bryson. For all of these authors, the reader doesn't learn anything useful about the destination, but the author's wit  and command of the language make for an enjoyable read. Hammond's  all-too-flimsy premise for his book is that he, a London resident, will  play the role of tourist in his city, while referring to various existing  travel books. But really, what makes the book so much fun is the author's  witty stream-of-consciousness style of writing. It was fun to read, but is  no replacement for a real guidebook to London. Also, not incidentally,  Hammond's book presupposes a thorough familiarity with London; otherwise,  it will all go over the reader's head. It might be the last guidebook to  London you read, but it shouldn't be the first.	2000-02-25
US	50658596	RQGAACELSUITD	0312193262	32125221	The Royal House of Monaco: Dynasty of Glamour, Tragedy and Scandal	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Couldn't put it down	For those who feel the Brits have the dysfunctional royal family from hell, this book about the Grimaldis of Monaco will be an eye-opener. It covers Grace's marriage to Rainier--an unhappy sham of a marriage contrived  to boost Monaco's economy, ending with Grace's tragic death due to a stroke  while driving. Roughly half of the book covers the three troubled children,  Caroline, Albert, and Stephanie, who are, to put it politely, a handful. We  follow the two daughters through their teenage rebellions, out-of-wedlock  pregnancies, troubled marriages, and (in Stephanie's case) drug problem;  one cannot help but sympathize with their troubled parents and the  heartbreak they've experienced watching their daughters destroy their  lives. The sole son, Albert, is the most responsible of the three siblings,  but even he is still 'sowing wild oats' at an age when he should be  thinking about creating an heir to the throne. It's a gossipy sort of  book--not an academic tome--but readers with some familiarity with Princess  Grace will be fascinated.	2000-02-25
US	50658596	R2HGBJVIPMW0VH	157322118X	16172294	Beyond the Sky and the Earth: A Journey into Bhutan	Books	2	18	32	N	N	Bhutan through the eyes of a self-centered writer	Jamie Zeppa joined the Canadian equivalent of the Peace Corp to experience life as a teacher in Bhutan. We see the experience through her eyes--the culture shock, followed by her enchantment with these innocent,  nonmaterialistic people. Then, she's transferred from a remote elementary  school to a college (actually more of a secondary school), where she  becomes aware of the ethnic and religious conflict (Buddhist vs Hindu).  Some of her students are taken by the police in the night for questioning  and worse. However, it's hard to like this writer. It's surprising that  she's unaware of the Hindu-Buddhist conflict until page 190 of the book.  She unthinkingly gets involved in a religious protest; she ignores her  closest friend during the friend's personal crisis. She has sex with two of  her students, but this doesn't seem to bother her because she sees her  desires as pure. One wonders what would happen to a secondary teacher in  her hometown that decided to sleep with students, but Zeppa gives little  thought of how her actions affect others. She gets pregnant, married, and  separated. The book is an interesting introduction to Bhutan, but  the  author seems unaware of how badly she comes across.	2000-02-08
US	50658596	R27ML4DEPHZ7RT	0679743634	956645046	So Close to Heaven: The Vanishing Buddhist Kingdoms of the Himalayas	Books	4	37	39	N	N	A highly readable introduction to Bhutan	The title indicates the book is about Himalayan Buddhism. While small portions are devoted to the Buddhists of Kashmir, Nepal, and Sikkim, the majority of the book is about Bhutan, because it's the last remaining  Buddhist monarchy of the Himalayan region. This is not a travel narrative;  instead, the material is arranged by topic. It's comprehensive and pleasant  to read. It's shortcoming is the author's unabashed bias in favor of the  Bhutanese monarchy, despite its dubious record of human rights toward the  Hindu minority. Crossette admits she received favored treatment from the  king, and it shows. Likewise, she sides with the (now deposed) monarchy of  Sikkim. The bias is so transparently obvious, I didn't feel I had been  conned, but one expects greater balance from a correspondent of The New  York Times.	2000-02-08
US	50658596	R3TFL7BEXMV7B9	0864425325	335292744	Mali Blues: Traveling to an African Beat	Books	2	9	11	N	N	A disappointing hodge-podge	The book splits evenly into two halves. The first half recounts Joris's travels in Senegal and Mauritania (the book's high point), and introduces us to Mali.  The second half, also dealing with Mali, is an account of her  friendship with the singer Boubacar Traore, and her efforts to delve into  his personal life.  Traore comes across as an abrasive and tempermental  character; it's very odd that he should be the focus of the book.  Joris's  writing style at the beginning of the book relies on indirect quotations  instead of actual dialogue, which makes it quite dry; later in the book the  writing quality improves markedly where dialogue is concerned.  This is  more the memoirs of Traore than a travel narrative. It's a sad oversight  (but emblematic of the book's flaws) that her only visit to Mali's Dogon  region is one day-trip, recounted in a few pages that highlight Traore's  role as her guide rather than the Dogon people.	2000-01-24
US	50658596	RI8Q3PBG34R4Y	0452267455	664457226	Baghdad without a Map and Other Misadventures in Arabia	Books	5	19	19	N	N	A delightful travelogue	This was a tough book to put down.  'Baghdad Without Maps' works on many different levels:  The author shares with us something of his personal life and the development of his career, in a humorously self-deprecating tone.   We learn something of the pack-mentality of war zone journalists, and we  learn something of the countries he visits, with the occasional  crash-course on a nation's history or political system. All too often with  this type of book, I find myself skipping over the boring historical stuff,  but here, his writing style is so entertaining, I didn't want to miss a  single sentence.<br />Where Horwitz really shines is his man-on-the-street  interviews.  He has a knack for recording some real gems of dialogue, such  as the Iranian who was chanting 'Death to America,' and then stopped to ask  Horwitz for advice on visiting Disneyland.  Some might see his approach to  the Middle East as negative, but after all, he's a journalist who chases  war, so the negative tone isn't very surprising.  In most of the countries  he visits, Horwitz introduces us to local people that are almost always  portrayed in the most sympathetic of tones.  The country that comes across  worst in this book is Israel, notwithstanding that Horwitz himself is  Jewish.<br />Chapters cover Yemen, the UAE, Egypt, Iraq (he was there during  the war with Iran as well the Gulf War), Iran (for Khomeini's funeral),  Jordan, Israel, Sudan, and Lebanon.  But the most memorable chapter of all  is his brief visit to Libya.  The only thing missing from this book is  maps--only one for the entire book, which is not enough.	2000-01-10
US	50658596	R16AY5UU9WVHTO	0814782388	144486987	The Victorian Underworld	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Crime and justice in Victorian England	Readers of British social history might enjoy this work. The first half (&quot;Crime&quot;) draws very heavily--perhaps too heavily--from the works of 19th-century writer Henry Mahew.  (Oddly, the Amazon listing shows Mahew as co-author, but he is not listed as co-author in the book itself.) We're treated to a detailed description of slum living conditions, criminal scams  of the era, cheating on horse races, early pornography, and prostitution. A  variety of detailed narratives give the book a personal touch;  it's not  dry reading.  The most astonishing tidbit in this book is that in Victorian  London, there was a ratio of one prostitute for every ten adult  males!<br />The second half of the book (&quot;Retribution&quot;) covers the  jails of the era, police corruption, hangings of wrongly convicted people,  and the workings of the court system, spiced with a variety of narratives  about actual people.  On the other hand, the most irritating feature of the  book is that the index lists only names of persons, not topics.	1999-12-02
