US	50659531	R1NDNMXI3KA7LP	0412276305	629666438	Practical Statistics for Medical Research (Chapman & Hall/CRC Texts in Statistical Science)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	The best book I've found on the topic!	This book was the text for the intro to Biostat class at Columbia University this year.  It is lucid, well organized, doesn't bog down in details or equations, and gives a good introductory explanation of the basic statistical methods, their rationale for use, and their various assumptions and shortcomings.<br />I can't imagine trying to do stats without a copy of this book beside me - I'd be lost.  If you're in need of a book to help you understand medical statistics as they are presented in the literature, you should use this book and eschew all others.	2003-12-19
US	50659531	R1BVZBZBIEBIIO	1929007116	985883715	Atlas of Human Anatomy, Third Edition	Books	5	20	20	N	N	The finest clinical anatomy atlas available.	Frank Netter's atlas compiles his paintings of every imaginable human body part, seen in various degrees of dissection, into one volume. Dr. Netter's talent for reproducing the facts of anatomy is exquisite and unquestionable. However, as one looks a little deeper, it becomes clear that Netter is in fact a guru of function as well. Nerves, outlined in an unearthly yellow, terminate on muscles they actually innervate. Tendinous insertions are always on the correct part of bony protuberances, and fiber direction is always carefully detailed. Any unusual functional variances, such as the dual sympathetic/parasympathetic function of Vidian's nerve, or such as the pulley effect on the trochlear nerve, are always painstakingly pointed out. Netter also excels in variation, presenting, for example, 11 normal variants of the cystic and hepatic ducts.<br />The alternatives are few and inadequate. Pernkopf is often cited as Netter's chief rival; his experimentation on living persons incarcerated in Nazi concentration camps forbids me from perusing his text, on ethical grounds. Grant's atlas is laughably inadequate by comparison, both in number and quality of the plates. And Gray's, the old standby, simply cannot measure up; Netter's bold colors and functional depictions are clearly superior.<br />Rohen and Yokochi, a photographic atlas, offers the advantage of being photographs of superb dissections, and therefore more like what one encounters in the anatomy lab. Some find it useful as a supplement to Netter's atlas. I also used Moore's textbook of anatomy; the plates, from Grant's atlas, are not so good, but the text can be used to expand and illuminate on the relevant plates in Netter's, and the text is well written and clear. I found it indispensible to read a little bit about what I was looking at, the night before an anatomy lab.<br />I have also lent my Netter to several artists (sculptors and painters,) all of whom found it to be quite useful.<br />If you have any interest in human anatomy, then, you need a copy of Netter today!	2003-09-15
US	50659531	R2XXJD2EXVRD7	032300914X	550215348	Swanson's Family Practice Review: A Problem-Oriented Approach	Books	1	73	77	N	Y	Out of date!  Beware.	Several years ago, word was out that this was the book to use for Step 3 review.  That may have been the case, but it is no longer.  I saw this book was out in a 4th (2001) edition, so assumed it would be up to 2001 standard of care.  Unfortunately, each section ends with a couple of references, and most of these were dated from 1992-1996.<br />When I saw penicillin G recommended as S. pneumonia treatment, my red flag went up (30% of community S. pneumonia isolates were Pen-resistant in 2000), and when I saw cisapride recommended as definitive treatment for heartburn - well, that drug's been off the market for safety reasons for 2 years.  So I closed the book - I'm a neurologist, I can't be expected to know what *else* is out of date in here!<br />I realize that Swanson's multiple choice format is no longer appropriate to the new patient-oriented boards, but I was surprised to discover such out-of-date content, too, in a book ostensibly dated 2001.  USMLE Step takers and all other physicians, purchase and read only with great caution - I suggest using a different book.	2003-07-15
US	50659531	R6Z85VI5UVNFK	0671472143	834307853	5 Weeks To Winning Bridge	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Well-organized introduction to bridge.	This book is so fun and easy to read, it actually got me, a non-player,  interested in bridge.  Then when the internet came along, I was able to play easily using the Yahoo! servers.  That's when I picked it up again.<br />It's organized logically: 35 lessons, 1 per day for 5 weeks, in the following order: rules, scoring, bids, notrumps, rebids, slams, competitive bids, doubles, finesse, squeezes, and on to esoteric tips that only the masters need to learn about.  It covers the conventions naturally, as they come up, and also lets you know which ones are frequently needed and which are &quot;once in a blue moon.&quot;  There are plenty of examples and self-tests along the way, which let you know if you need to reread a section.<br />Best of all is the writing - Sheinwold is witty, making you feel like an insider to the world of smart bridge playing.  If you're a beginner, you'll find him lucid and easy to follow; even a pro should take tips from the later sections.  You needn't get far through the book before you start wishing you had a better partner, which I think is probably the ultimate test of any bridge book.<br />Sheinwold himself is an interesting fellow - a native of Great Britain, he grew up in the USA, then headed the Department of Codes and Ciphers of the O.S.S. during World War II.  He returned to bridge when the war was over, making his living at playing and writing about bridge.<br />This book was written in 1959, but isn't dated at all, and its long life should be the best testimony to its merit.  There are two very, very mildly misogynistic jokes (&quot;who can ever tell what a woman is thinking?&quot; is the worse of them) scattered in the text, which were well within the bounds of repartee in 1959, but which don't seem appropriate in 2003.  That's the only bad thing I can find to say.<br />If you have any interest in bridge, you ought to read this book!	2003-07-07
US	50659531	RLE0R1EGQELVI	0875964869	640252762	Bicycling Magazine's Complete Book of Road Cycling Skills : Your Guide to Riding Faster, Stronger, Longer, and Safer	Books	4	60	60	N	Y	Cobbled together, but a comprehensive guide	As a long-time car driver who just made the 'switch' to cycle commuting, I had a lot of anxieties regarding safe and intelligent operation of a bicycle on roads shared with automobiles.  This book served the purpose admirably and got me riding safe and sane on the streets of Manhattan, something I wouldn't have believed possible a couple months ago.<br />There are sections on how to equip your bike, how to follow the rules of the road, and tips and tricks bikers need to know to coexist safely in traffic.  There are also sections on what to eat and drink, how to train effectively to increase your abilities, and how to get into serious long-distance touring - things which I hadn't originally been interested in but which were fun to read about.  I think what I liked best about the book was that it was clearly written by enthusiasts who've spent a lot of time riding and a lot of time thinking about how to convey their skills and enthusiasms to the public.<br />If I had a criticism, it'd be that the book suffers by being a collection of separate magazine articles not originally intended for publication in this form, so some information is repeated and coherence is sort of loose.  But it's not a major criticism and I'd recommend the book anyway.	2002-08-20
US	50659531	RBH14LL5K5MI8	0812536355	288499140	A Deepness in the Sky (Zones of Thought)	Books	5	5	9	N	Y	In the grand old style of SF	First, I have to say that I didn't think they made Authors like this anymore.  Vinge apparently has a computer science background, but he's no slouch at physics and biology either, and his deft touch with the hard science as well as the literary aspects of setting, character and plot make him simply a delight to read.<br />As a work of speculative fiction, Vinge shows the influence of Heinlein and Niven, but at his best he comes through with the erratic brilliance of Alfred Bester - especially in the extreme machinations of some of his more evil, yet believably self-interested human characters, who squabble for power and position even as their technologically advanced little spaceship-worlds are (literally) falling apart around them.<br />As a work of allegory, Vinge shows us a race of alien Spiders who in fact have much in common with 21st century Earth culture, and the book works on this level, too.<br />I'd recommend this book without reservation to anyone who loves great SF!	2002-08-20
US	50659531	R1LLEIS5VV80BB	1579540090	567019644	Bicycling Magazine's Complete Guide to Bicycle Maintenance and Repair for Road and Mountain Bikes	Books	5	11	14	N	Y	Read this *before* you buy a bike!	I've just gotten a new bike, and this book was my bible along the rocky road to buying a bike.  Technology's come a long way in the 15 years since I last bought a bike, and I was starting from nearly zero - I didn't know my top tube from my seat stay.<br />This book covers the basics of what bicycle components are, what they do when they're working right, and how they can fail.  I'm not someone who does a lot of \\"wrenching\\" on his own bike, but I found I needed to read this whole book in order to make an informed bike-buying decision.  What do the tradeoffs between strength and lightness in wheelsets really mean with respect to your riding style?  Do you need to go for the more expensive bottom bracket?  (Probably not.)  What's a 'headset', and why does it need to be covered up when you're transporting the bike on the back of a car?<br />This book will answer all the questions you had about the makeup and operation of a bike, but more importantly, it'll answer the questions you didn't know enough to ask, and help you make the best-informed bike buying decision possible!	2002-08-20
US	50659531	R1Y3KN490UX2FG	0393307069	659543252	Post Captain (Aubrey/Maturin)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	A delicate hand at history	About a third of the way through Post Captain, I began to grow a little impatient.  &quot;Why can't Aubrey and Maturin get to sea again,&quot; I wondered.  &quot;All this gallivanting around, dodging bill collectors, competing for the affections of rose-cheeked English lasses - it wears on one.&quot;  But after reading about the press gangs, the foxes and hounds, the merchant class and their conduct at parties, it became clear that O'Brian had widened his narrative scope.  No longer would this series be merely about two men and their friendship aboard a fighting ship; the author couldn't be content with reproducing the prior success of &quot;Master and Commander.&quot;<br />And in fact, one gains a rich and carefully-crafted vision of the times and the customs of 1803 England, just before and after the breaking of the Peace of Amiens.  Though the novel is imbued with history, you needn't refer to a textbook if your recall is rusty - O'Brian takes you there, he shows rather than tells, and in the end you'll feel like you'd lived through the historical moment in question, along with the good Captain and his faithful Doctor.  A very pleasant way to take your history.<br />I especially liked the part where Aubrey finds a dermoid, carefully concealed in Maturin's pistol holster!  What a character!	2001-09-25
US	50659531	R3FX1CP1HRVUUE	0061418609	519407731	Way of Life	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Life in day-tight compartments.	Dale Carnegie and Stephen Covey, to name two self-help authors, were quite impressed with Dr. Osler's plan for a happy, successful life, which is summed up by the maxim: &quot;Live in day-tight compartments.&quot;  Full of flowery classical references, Dr. Osler's speech to the Yale graduating class of 1913 remains pleasant and inspirational, and if you'd like to know just a little bit more about Osler than his physical sign of endocarditis, it makes a fun read.<br />It's a &quot;charming little book,&quot; practically new-polished with the rough pumice stone (reading Ivy League commencement addresses makes me quote Catullus.  So sue me) - and it's pretty, bound in tan vinyl.  I really would take exception to the type face, though, a too-cute number called Goudy Mediæval.  It looks like something an old lady fond of antimacassars would call 'elegant.'<br />Would make a super gift for a college - or med school - grad!	2001-09-23
US	50659531	R3JZA38KIPUNKP	0890420254	606675325	Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 4th Edition, Text Revision (DSM-IV-TR)	Books	2	62	95	N	N	Not the simple, useful nosology you're looking for.	I quote Karl Menninger, on the publication of the DSM-II in 1968:  \\"This year [1968] the APA took a great step backward when it abandoned the principles used in the simple useful nosology [DSM-I]. In the interest of uniformity, in the interest of having some kind of international code of designation for different kinds of human troubles, in the interest of statistics and computers, the American medical scientists were asked to repudiate some of the advances they had made in conceptualization and in the designation of mental illness.\\"  Since then, it's gotten worse, not better, with thousands of symptom checklists and numbered diagnoses, conveniently correlated to the ICD-9 standard diagnosis codes for easier billing.  But people, medical students and physicians included, will insist on treating DSM-IV as a textbook in psychiatry. It's nothing of the sort - it never touches on the essential topics of etiology, prognosis, and treatment. People memorize the checklists and think they understand psychiatry, when in fact they have entirely failed to grasp the noble and great endeavor: riddling out the first causes and mechanisms of our humanity, and how those mechanisms go awry.  Well, then, you say, what about diagnosis? Isn't this a diagnostic manual?  In my opinion, for that purpose DSM-IV is worse than useless to a lay person. Consider the previous reviewer who thought the book made a good party game, diagnosing his healthy friends with all sorts of 'disorders'. It wouldn't take much experience in a psychiatric emergency room to realize that psychiatric illness is no party game - but it would take some. Without the context provided by direct, caring relationships with the mentally ill, the jargon and symptoms discussed in this book are meaningless.  This book will not teach you to be a psychiatric diagnostician! Only experience can do that. It's intended as a quick reference guide for people with that experience, and a reference concerned with very practical matters not relevant to the patient-physician relationship (such as the standardized conduct and reporting of clinical trials, or how to justify billled services).  I'd disagree strongly with the prior reviewer who felt psychiatric patients should read their DSM-IV. If you're a psychiatric patient \\"on the same page\\" as your health care practictioner, get off the page and get on top of your life! You have more pressing concerns than making yourself into an expert psychiatric diagnostician and quibbling over the learned APA's compilation of symptom checklists - you need to heal.  In short, I can't imagine recommending this tome to anyone for any purpose - people who need it don't need me to tell them so.	2001-08-30
US	50659531	R2KGBLEXRK82UL	0380730464	631570921	The Iron Dragon's Daughter	Books	5	14	20	N	Y	Pixie dust and guided missiles!	This is a crazy romp through nearly-uncharted waters - although if you're a fan of Mark Shepherd's &quot;Elvendude,&quot; you'll be familiar with the rather nutty concept of mixing a Judy Blume-style Young Adult plot with a bunch of Little People.<BR>To Swanwick's credit, his hip young fairies, dwarves, elves, trolls, and whatnot (there's dozens of species) are believable, even when they're snorting pixie dust in the back seat of a limo and listening to modern elven rock. But this isn't their story - it's the story of a young changeling, a human girl-child taken from her cradle to work in a cramped, Dickensian factory.<BR>Well, except that this factory makes sentient, highly evil missile-launching 'iron dragons' - fighter planes, in a magickal way. The novel really begins when one of these enters our heroine's life, and plans out a glorious escape - or a blackmailed kidnapping, depending on your point of view. Then , we follow her struggles to find her own identity and discover her past - the various plot twists will leave you shaking your head in stunned amusement, except for the ending, which simply cries out for a sequel.<BR>If you're not turned off yet, I highly recommend picking this inventive and offbeat novel up for a read. You won't be disappointed.	2001-08-30
US	50659531	R1VRKY4FJK4QCL	0393307050	680723399	Master and Commander	Books	5	3	6	N	Y	What a fantastic book!	This book is just simply astounding! Halfway down the first page I thought, \\"well, that's a neat trick;\\" by the time I'd finished it I knew I was in the hands of a master.<BR>Frigates! Guns! The Royal Navy and Spanish booty! An upright, straight-shooting newly minted captain, and an absent-minded, slightly flawed physician who fancies himself an amateur naturalist, and their unlikely adventures together upon the high seas!<BR>Who cares! This book is a BOOK, readers - this is why trees are chopped down, sliced thin, and put between two covers! If you didn't know how good a novel could be, read this one - and prepare to be slapped across the face<BR>I came to this book a couple months after finishing 'Two Years Before the Mast', and I can't imagine a better primer - but not necessary. If you like to read a book - if you like people at all - if you ever learned to read English - then I can't imagine that you won't absolutely love this book.<BR>Yes, it's that good.	2001-08-30
US	50659531	RCL6FKRHHS8B6	0890420254	606675325	Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 4th Edition, Text Revision (DSM-IV-TR)	Books	2	33	42	N	N	Not the simple, useful nosology you're looking for.	I quote Karl Menninger, on the publication of the DSM-II in 1968:  \\"This year [1968] the APA took a great step backward when it abandoned the principles used in the simple useful nosology [DSM-I]. In the interest of uniformity, in the interest of having some kind of international code of designation for different kinds of human troubles, in the interest of statistics and computers, the American medical scientists were asked to repudiate some of the advances they had made in conceptualization and in the designation of mental illness.\\"  Since then, it's gotten worse, not better, with thousands of symptom checklists and numbered diagnoses, conveniently correlated to the ICD-9 standard diagnosis codes for easier billing.  But people, medical students and physicians included, will insist on treating DSM-IV as a textbook in psychiatry. It's nothing of the sort - it never touches on the essential topics of etiology, prognosis, and treatment. People memorize the checklists and think they understand psychiatry, when in fact they have entirely failed to grasp the noble and great endeavor: riddling out the first causes and mechanisms of our humanity, and how those mechanisms go awry.  Well, then, you say, what about diagnosis? Isn't this a diagnostic manual?  In my opinion, for that purpose DSM-IV is worse than useless to a lay person. Consider the previous reviewer who thought the book made a good party game, diagnosing his healthy friends with all sorts of 'disorders'. It wouldn't take much experience in a psychiatric emergency room to realize that psychiatric illness is no party game - but it would take some. Without the context provided by direct, caring relationships with the mentally ill, the jargon and symptoms discussed in this book are meaningless. This book will not teach you to be a psychiatric diagnostician! Only experience can do that. It's intended as a quick reference guide for people with that experience, and a reference concerned with very practical matters not relevant to the patient-physician relationship (such as the standardized conduct and reporting of clinical trials, or how to justify billled services).  I'd disagree strongly with the prior reviewer who felt psychiatric patients should read their DSM-IV. If you're a psychiatric patient \\"on the same page\\" as your health care practictioner, get off the page and get on top of your life! You have more pressing concerns than making yourself into an expert psychiatric diagnostician and quibbling over the learned APA's compilation of symptom checklists - you need to heal.  In short, I can't imagine recommending this tome to anyone for any purpose - people who need it don't need me to tell them so.  If you're interested, however, in psychiatry, I urge you to read the classics - Freud for the grounding of psychodynamics, Skinner on behaviorism, Menninger's superb \\"Man Against Himself\\" on suicide and depression, Erich Fromm's \\"Escape From Freedom\\" and \\"Man For Himself\\" for academic psychophilosophy, Kraepelin on dementia praecox (what we now call 'schizophrenia' - I prefer his original term), Wundt on introspective self-analysis, Kraft-Ebbing's \\"Psychopathia Sexualis\\" for a laugh and for a serious understanding of the social construction of sexual \\"disorder\\" - if you're really interested in these topics, you'll find these authors far more stimulating, I guarantee!	2001-08-30
US	50659531	R17HSYZVNCSL5S	0683068520	263787185	001: Atlas of Topographical and Applied Human Anatomy: Head and Neck	Books	1	2	13	N	N	Ethically untenable.	Pernkopf's anatomy textbook has been praised for its quality. I wouldn't know - I've never looked at it. And I never will, because Pernkopf participated in unethical experiments on living human beings while gathering information for this atlas. His unwilling subjects, mostly Jews incarcerated in Nazi concentration camps, underwent experimental surgeries and dissections, some having spinal or peripheral nerves severed. They were then awakened and made to report on the effect of the lesions. As a physician, scientist, and human being, I find these experiments and Pernkopf's work entirely unacceptable on ethical grounds. I will not be a participant, not even to the extent of reviewing the results, some of which appear in this volume. If you have an interest in human anatomy, do yourself a favor - buy Frank Netter's atlas. It's the finest available, and was based on cadaveric dissections; his models willed their bodies to science.	2001-08-24
US	50659531	R1CO0ZA9UWHIWI	0380014033	772010642	Lord of Light	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	&quot;Indistinguishable from magic.&quot;	Arthur C. Clarke once commented that any sufficiently advanced technology was indistinguishable from magic. That had to have been on Zelazny's mind when he wrote this classic SF novel, in which a bunch of former space travelers play the Hindu pantheon, lording over a pre-industrial planet. Zelazny's point seems to be that the myths have power unto themselves; events play out with the force of archetype and the human/gods lose some of their free will as the old stories play themselves out.  (Remember H.G. Wells 'Men Like Gods'?) The story focuses mostly on Sam, an exile from the heavenly community, who incarnates himself (they've beaten death) as the Buddha and starts a spiritual movement against Heaven. A highly original and thought-provoking work of far-future SF!	2001-08-24
US	50659531	R3PDFJU4M9PX5K	0345350804	109454413	The Best of H. P. Lovecraft: Bloodcurdling Tales of Horror and the Macabre	Books	5	9	13	N	Y	Don't make the mistake I did, children...	Maybe you grew up on Stephen King, shuddered along with the rest of us as he showed you moments of psychological breakdown.<br />Maybe you read along with us, were quaintly amused at the gothic beauty of the fall of Usher's house - but not horrified, no; not really.<br />Perhaps, on coming of age, you looked into Stoker's 'Dracula'; even nipped your lover's neck the next midnight abed with her, enlightened to this aspect of the dark side of human sexuality.<br />What has come before will not prepare you for this.<br />Don't do as I did; sick; half-frozen; feverish in a brick dormitory over winter break, in earshot of the justly-famous Widener Library; as the mists float in densely over the rime-laden ground.  Don't open this dread tome, this gruesome mad ramble into what should not be comprehended.<br />Don't fire your fever dreams with these wormy logs.  You'll hear the rats chittering behind those ancient walls.  You'll be afraid to lift your hand to turn the page as you track &quot;The Colour Out of Space&quot; to its miscegenated conclusion.  You'll fall asleep and dream of the shadowed streets of Innsmouth - and recognize them, later, where your friends just see a run-down wharf and a maze of alleys.  And should you learn of the Great Race and the Shadow Out of Time - no!  Dreams are for purifying, healthful rest; not for - this!<br />That is, unless you want to read the best, scariest horror stories ever written, in which case, order this book immediately.  The cover art's campy but one night you'll see that skull looking back at you from your bedside table...	2001-08-15
US	50659531	R17J1ZMJEO63F2	0721692346	537900241	Clinical Pediatric Neurology: A Signs and Symptoms Approach, 4e	Books	5	16	18	N	N	The next best thing to Juan Pascual	Sometimes you can't have a portly, balding pediatric neurologist right at the bedside to help you out.  For those times, you need this book.<br />Fenichel's book is the standard for adult neurologists and pediatricians who need a practical, concise, well-organized introduction to the otherwise mysterious world of pediatric neurology.  It's organized by the presenting sign and symptom, which makes it redundant in places, but also invaluable when preparing for Board vignettes, not to mention highly relevant for taking care of real patients.  There's no substitute or alternative.<br />Its only shortcoming is its lack of depth - and it doesn't purport to be a textbook.  (That role is filled by Swaiman's 1998 2-volume edition, which is superior in my opinion to that of Aicardi.)  This is a book you could carry around with you on your pediatric neurology rotation - and if you rotate, you'd better!<br />What else it's not:  It's not for lay readers, such as parents or non-medical personnel.  It assumes a great deal of familiarity with medicine, pediatrics, and neurology, and presumes that the reader has a good deal of clinical experience.  For this reason I also wouldn't recommend it to medical students - it's written for residents.  (I'd send the students to Swaiman.)<br />As much as we wish we could keep a pediatric neurologist in our pocket at all times, current technology doesn't permit it.  And the one I'm thinking of would never fit.  So, order your copy of Fenichel today!	2001-08-13
US	50659531	R3QACETT82Z2TN	1574534211	826884658	A Wizard of Earthsea (The Earthsea Cycle, Book 1)	Books	5	87	90	N	N	The original school of magic.	I'm writing this review because JK Rowling's books about the Hogwarts School of Magic reminded me of this, one of the few perfect novels I've ever read.<br />It's not a light-hearted fairy tale, though it is &quot;high fantasy.&quot; It's the story of Ged, from his childhood discovery of his wonderful yet terrible magical powers; to his education at the School of Wizardry on Roke Knoll.  There he makes a misstep; overstepping his powers, he accidentally lets loose an evil creature from a shadow world.  His self-imposed exile, journeys, and eventual maturation and triumph are written with a deft flair for the beauty and wonder of magic; yet Ms. LeGuin is even more masterful in depicting Ged's character: the young high achiever who must finally make his peace with his inner demons.<br /> As a child, I loved it for the idea of a school of magic.  I grew older, reread it during a dark teenage time, and cried when Ged finally confronted his inner shadow creature.  Later, studying anatomy in medical school, I recalled Ged's long days in the Namer's high tower, learning the true names of things; and bent cheerfully to my task.<br />It still bears re-reading to this day.  Readers who enjoy Tolkien, JK Rowling, or Alice Miller's &quot;Drama of the Gifted Child&quot; ought particularly to read it; and readers who didn't like &quot;The Left Hand of Darkness&quot; or &quot;The Dispossessed&quot; should give Ms. LeGuin another try, in this, her finest work.  .  It is one of my favorite novels and I recommend it to you wholeheartedly.	2001-08-13
US	50659531	R2H7CQLS8OORC2	0870118668	348353675	The Book of Sushi	Books	5	17	17	N	Y	The Joy of Sushi!	This book is true fun to read.  Pictures are spare, elegant, and profuse; for a good ways in the middle of the book, every other page is a full-color photo designed to remind you how various forms of sushi relate to the passing of the seasons.<br />The text is clear - very readable - and the author's love for the history, tradition and eating of sushi shines through.  Tips on what to order don't feel like prescriptions so much as suggestions; I especially appreciated the explanation of which types of fish are good during different parts of the year. The book is crammed with practical information like this - Omae points out that maki rolls should be eaten first, not because of some obscure protocol, but because the seaweed-paper wrapper may not hold up as moisture soaks into it.  And it may sound obvious in retrospect, but I'd never actually realized that you're not supposed to dip the rice part of nigiri-zushi into the soy sauce; rather, you hold it 'upside down' and just wet the fish.<br />This book will make you want to go out and eat more sushi, and if you're a thoughtful person like me, all that good information will probably enhance the experience.  5 stars!	2001-07-09
US	50659531	R39JUI6BJ2V5WL	0262690128	900380721	The Classical Language of Architecture	Books	5	25	33	N	N	Do you like looking at buildings?	I was introduced to this classic work in a course on Michelangelo by John Shearman at Harvard, and I'm writing this review because I'm convinced this book deserves wider distribution.<br />It's essentially an illustrated compilation of a series of lectures Summerson gave at university in England.  The topic: the 'language' of architecture through the ages.  Ever look at white marble columns, or that triangular thing over a window, and think how beautiful and elegant the display of forms was?  Believe it or not, those styles are not created anew each time architects design a building!  Rather, they draw on our rich common heritage - the 'classical language of architecture', first defined by Vasari in the 15th century (though in use since prehistoric times).  That thing over the window is called a 'pediment', and columns can be Doric (stocky), Ionic (tall and graceful), or Corinthian (elaborated with flowery scroll-work at the top.)  The triangular thing over a window is called a 'pediment'.<br />Intrigued?  Want to know more about what the architects were thinking when they designed that building you're looking at?  Buy this book, now!	2001-02-22
US	50659531	R7WD8HT0ASNON	0671726528	28659434	Kon-Tiki: Across the Pacific in a Raft	Books	5	49	53	N	N	Courage, comrades, an idea, and the ocean	Kon-Tiki starts with an idea, conceived during Heyerdahl's stay on a South Seas island researching his doctoral thesis: could Polynesia have been colonized by trans-Pacific emigres from the pre-Colombian cultures of South America?<br />A true scientist, Heyerdahl isn't satisfied with deciding &quot;yes&quot; - he must test the theory!  In the hands of a lesser man this would have produced a musty old thesis collecting dust on the back shelf of an anthropology library.  Instead, Heyerdahl marshals five friends of heroic spirit, acquires 9 giant balsa wood logs and some other supplies, and within a few months he sets sail from Peru to cross the Pacific.  Drinking fresh water stored in hollowed-out bamboo shafts and eating fish that leap aboard the raft, they make their way across the ocean, well knowing that despite the advanced radio technology of 1936, their chance of rescue in the event of mishap is nil.<br />The only sea book I can think of to rival this for sheer interest and adventure is Verne's &quot;20,000 Leagues under the Sea,&quot; - a fantasy.  Heyerdahl's work is true, and his heroic heart shines through in every word.  His love and reverence for the ocean and the primitive culture he sought to imitate, combined with his scientific clarity of exposition, make it a joy to read and will instill the sea-lust into even the most devoted landlubber.<br />I think everyone ought to read this book, for sheer pleasure, and as an example of what can be done with stout heart, clear head, and good will.  I recommend it to you without any reservation.	2000-12-31
US	50659531	R1KI448LLSHVAR	0761119639	119411089	365 Cats Page a Day Calendar: 2001	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Cats-o-Rama!	The title says it: 365 cats, one for every day of the year, rendered in loving color with bits of kitty trivia and feline facts as captions.<br />A great stocking stuffer for the cat lover in your family!	2000-11-19
US	50659531	RQPXLLYZ60329	0451179803	959014913	Spandau Phoenix: A Novel	Books	5	13	15	N	N	A real page-turner!	It's 1987.  Gorbachev is in power.  The cold war is rapidly winding to a close.  So what does it matter that an old man, the last of the Nazi war criminals, is found dead in Spandau prison?<br />Well, it turns out that no fewer than eight governmental organizations (American, British, East and West German, South African, Israeli, Libyan and Russian) have a vested interest the death of the prisoner formerly known as Rudolf Hess - and it all revolves around a nine-page document that is found by an honest West German police officer.<br />Most of the intricate plot is set up in the first third of the book, and the rest just traces the story of the Spandau papers to its highly complex and inexorable conclusion.  If I had a complaint, it'd be that some characterization is sacrificed in order to keep the plot advancing - but I wouldn't have made the book any longer than its 700 paperback pages, either.  To Iles' credit, there's never any trouble keeping his large cast of characters straight.<br />Great beach read!	2000-10-16
US	50659531	R2P7T51WSV63KS	0375705449	1994753	334: A Novel	Books	4	3	8	N	Y	The future, darkly	As futures go, this one isn't particularly pleasant to read about, and doubtless some of this follows from Disch's choice to portray the mercilessly-oppressed lower-class citizens of New York City's Lower East Side.  They're not particularly likable, lovable, or interesting, and you'll be moved to moments of frank disgust as you contemplate what they're missing.<br />The interest, then, must lie elsewhere.  For this reviewer, it was found in the web of inferences about Disch's proposed future society - if Milly the airline stewardess/high school sex counselor makes her husband bear her child, what does it say about her philosophies and priorities and the way they are shaped by economic necessities?  This seems to be Disch's point, sometimes; other times, especially during the contrived sex scenes, it's not clear at all what he's getting at.  And he's hardly a master wordsmith, or even more than a barely-competent prose-stylist, so you have to fight through some rather barren language to get at these things.<br />However, the heart of SF is idea.  So if you care to travel for a moment into a carefully-imagined future world and experience the sense of a time-traveler displaced from your habitual norms, this book will bring you the ideas you need!	2000-09-23
US	50659531	R15JHJKDAD5VA7	0914168800	985883715	Atlas of Human Anatomy	Books	5	124	126	N	N	The finest medical anatomy atlas available.	Frank Netter's atlas compiles his paintings of every imaginable human body part, seen in various degrees of dissection, into one volume.  Dr. Netter's talent for reproducing the facts of anatomy is exquisite and  unquestionable.  However, as one looks a little deeper, it becomes clear  that Netter is in fact a guru of function as well.  Nerves, outlined in an  unearthly yellow, terminate on muscles they actually innervate.  Tendinous  insertions are always on the correct part of bony protuberances, and fiber  direction is always carefully detailed.  Any unusual functional variances,  such as the dual sympathetic/parasympathetic function of Vidian's nerve, or  such as the pulley effect on the trochlear nerve, are always painstakingly  pointed out.  Netter also excels in variation, presenting, for example, 11  normal variants of the cystic and hepatic ducts.<br />The alternatives are few  and inadequate.  Pernkopf is often cited as Netter's chief rival; his  experimentation on living persons incarcerated in Nazi concentration camps  forbids me from perusing his text, on ethical grounds.  Grant's atlas is  laughably inadequate by comparison, both in number and quality of the  plates.  And Gray's, the old standby, simply cannot measure up; Netter's  bold colors and functional depictions are clearly superior.<br />Rohen and  Yokochi, a photographic atlas, offers the advantage of being photographs of  superb dissections, and therefore more like what one encounters in the  anatomy lab.  Some find it useful as a supplement to Netter's atlas.  I  also used Moore's textbook of anatomy; the plates, from Grant's atlas, are  not so good, but the text can be used to expand and illuminate on the  relevant plates in Netter's, and the text is well written and clear.  I  found it indispensible to read a little bit about what I was looking at,  the night before an anatomy lab.<br />I have also lent my Netter to several  artists (sculptors and painters,) all of whom found it to be quite  useful.<br />If you have any interest in human anatomy, then, you need a copy  of Netter today!	2000-06-29
US	50659531	R14HFJWCI480CC	0683061410	810647855	Clinically Oriented Anatomy, 4th Edition	Books	4	40	42	N	N	Superb text, not so great pictures	I used Moore's as an adjunct to studying anatomy with Netter's atlas of anatomy.  I found that the text was concise, lucid, and enjoyable to read, with pertinent and important clinical examples in the form of case  presentations.<br />The illustrations, on the other hand, are from Grant's  atlas of anatomy, and occasionally are confusing or downright obfuscating  (the anterior and posterior triangles of the neck come to mind.)  So I  recommend reading the text, but referring to Netter's atlas when referring  to pictures!	2000-06-29
US	50659531	R3PAL1GXSM5V9Y	0312244770	498761510	Let's Go 2000: New York City: The World's Bestselling Budget Travel Series (Let's Go. New York City)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	NYC on a shoestring	The Let's Go NYC guide is intended for the backpack traveler on a seriously cramped budget.  The guides are heavily marketed in Europe, where the tradition of young folks backpacking around the world for a year is  strong.  For this reason, much of this guide focuses on how to eat, sleep,  and get into museums and cultural attractions for cheap or free; and what  to do, say, or think about when you get there.  Also, great attention is  paid to things like hospital locations, public transport systems, police  phone numbers, etc. - things you may not plan for in advance, but are very  grateful for when you end up wanting them.  And Let's Go also offers  information for alternative travelers such as gay/lesbian resources,  music/club-o-philes, a list of used bookstores, and so forth.<br />It's  written entirely by Harvard students: each summer, a skeleton crew of  harried researcher-writers, paid a pittance, go out and physically check  every listing, every year.  They report back to the main office in  Cambridge, MA periodically, where a team of underappreciated editors  compiles their reports into next year's book.  I was the researcher-writer  for Hawaii in 1994, and so I can confidently attest to the merits of this  system.  It's based on the real experience of a live college student trying  to do the stuff that's written about, and that sense of fun, frustration,  and whirlwind tourism comes through in the writing.<br />When I came to NYC  this guide was the first thing I bought.  I'd encourage you to do the same!	2000-06-23
US	50659531	RCGL0KRV7S8JG	0374189870	56265932	Lives of the Monster Dogs	Books	5	3	6	N	N	A charming first novel	A mad scientist's vision, perilously near, yet gone disastrously awry.  A young New Yorker, fresh out of college, smarting from a broken relationship and the sting of the unfeeling city.  Discrimination and taste warring with  dissolution and decadence.  Here are the setting and characters of  &quot;Lives of the Monster Dogs,&quot; a charming first novel.<br />It is a  good mix; the science fiction veneer diverts with its newness, yet the old  themes are touched with the author's young hand.  She is exquisitely  poignant at best, maudlin at worst.  Perhaps best of all, she is painfully  aware that a first novel should not attempt too much; the scope of the  novel is painstakingly limited, and the resultant microscopic examination  of character, style, and personality takes on an Old World atmosphere far  removed from the utilitarian clamor of city life - an external contrast  that sits well with the novel if you're reading it, say, on the uptown A  express.<br />I recommend it.  Furthermore, I expect better things from Ms.  Bakis in the years to come.	2000-06-19
US	50659531	R1BBEU7AXE8NWY	0156482401	212601616	Language in Thought and Action: Fifth Edition	Books	5	93	98	N	Y	Why should I care about semantics?	It's been said that language is what differentiates humans from the apes.  But why language?  Why not hawaiian shirts?  Senator Hayakawa's short book explains why language, and particularly meaning, is so important.  It  stands alone on its own merits, or as an elegant frame to the debate  addressed in Korzybski's monolithic 1933 work, _Science and Sanity._<br />Ever  been in an argument?  Ever get hot and bothered, maybe even start shouting,  until you eventually realize that your disagreement is over the definition  of terms?  And did you ever stop to consider that there might be more than  two sides to every story - maybe an infinite number?  Come along as  Hayakawa examines these issues in great detail.<br />The style of the book is  so lucid, you'll almost feel as if you're being reminded of things you've  always known.  Does the book reveal universal truth?  Or maybe just a  skillful command of language?<br />I recommend this to any human who uses  language to communicate or think.  You'll never look at Hillary Clinton's  &quot;politics of meaning&quot; the same way again.	2000-06-17
US	50659531	R3E1Z1IHUNAOIU	999976472X	459309252	Stars in My Pocket Like Grains of Sand	Books	5	82	88	N	Y	Sequels In My Pocket Like Grains of Fairy Dust	I thought about the question for about one year, and I've come to the conclusion that &quot;Stars&quot; is my favorite book of all time.  It has tremendous appeal as science fiction, escapism, political and gender  theory, satire of modern-day cultural conflicts, and traditional  character-driven fiction; and it is a 'novel' in the strict sense.  So  people looking for any of those things won't be disappointed.<br />But what I  frequently hear from people whom I've persuaded to read this book is that  it, somehow, caused them to open their perceptions; to feel that there were  more ways of thinking, of feeling, of living than they had previously  known.  This is Delany's specialty; he did it first in &quot;Dhalgren&quot;  but he does it best here, and in this respect no other author can match  him.  And this is a great talent and a great gift and why Delany will still  be read when William Gibson has disappeared down the road that swallowed up  Murray Leinster (two of my favorite SF authors, by the bye, and no offense  intended.)<br />Naturally, when something is this good it immediately goes  out-of-print.  I'd recommend letting Amazon find you a copy - they found me  a perfect mint condition first-edition hardcover for $31.  I can't recall  when I've been so happy about anything.<br />Oh, and the sequel.  Science  fiction fans around the world are awaiting it with some annoyance - he did  publish the first chapter in 1997 in some academic journal (memory tells me  the Journal of Contemporary Fiction, but memory could be way wrong), but it  more frustrated and delimited than satiated that desire for closure to the  story of Marq Dyeth, Rat Korga, Velm, Nepiy, the Thants, the Xlv, and the  mysterious and sinister Web that snares them all.  It's anybody's guess if  he'll ever finish it, but I certainly hope he does!	2000-06-17
US	50659531	R1WKS0WAJUDCEW	0375408223	789029832	The Verificationist	Books	2	14	20	N	N	Batter up - this book is flat as a pancake!	This is a novel of internal monologue and external dialogue experienced by a clinical psychologist as he meets his professional colleagues for brunch at a pancake house.  An abridged version appeared in the New Yorker as a  piece of short fiction - and that in itself ought to tell you something  about the audience for which the novel is intended.  <br />Antrim is a darling  of the NYT Review of Books, and this novel fits the formula to a T: a book  about upscale, well-educated white people nattering on, in an unusual and  diverting way, about the particular neuroses and life events and issues  typical of that group.<br />Nothing much gets said or done, and in the end  you're left to contemplate how this sort of fiction is actually remarkably  well symbolized by pancakes: light, sweet, fluffy, homogenous, mild in  flavor, and probably bad for you, yet there's always a new way to prepare  it.  (Can someone say CREPES?)<br />I didn't like it very much.  Your mileage  may vary.	2000-06-17
US	50659531	R34E6QHZ01XAYK	0316698393	976878546	No Man Alone: A Neurosurgeon's Life	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	Life of a cerebral cartographer.	You don't have to learn a little bit about neuroscience to understand why Wilder Penfield, M.D., was so important.  You don't have to appreciate the contrast between the ridiculous 19th-century field of phrenology and the  eloquent experimental data summarized in Penfield and Jasper's landmark  _Functional Anatomy of the Human Brain_ to understand what the name  Penfield means in neuroscience today.<br />In fact, even a casual reading of  Rudy Rucker reveals jacked-in cybernauts, their neurosurgeons doubtless  Penfield's spiritual descendants.<br />The work stands on its own, and this  autobiography will barely touch on it, or the turbulent relationship  between Penfield and Jasper (the latter is barely mentioned.)  But if your  question is, &quot;Who was that man,&quot; this book provides the  answer.<br />If you're not interested in an out-of-print book, there's a book  called &quot;Something Hidden,&quot; by Penfield's grandson, that covers  much the same ground; in fact, whole chapters are practically lifted  word-for-word with only the person changed from first to third.	2000-06-17
US	50659531	R30S8YHCOURFWK	0385176961	439196655	Something hidden: A biography of Wilder Penfield	Books	4	8	8	N	N	More readable but similar to Penfield's autobiography	Written in a slightly more readable style than Penfield's own autobiography (_No Man Alone_), this work explores the life and times of Wilder Penfield, the revolutionary neurosurgeon who mapped the human  cerebral cortex for the first time and pioneered surgery for epilepsy.<br />I  recommend Penfield's own work, because after the first couple of chapters,  this book devolves into a recapitulation of that autobiography; whole  sentences and even chapters appear to have been lifted wholesale from that  work, with only the person changed from first to third.  Still, the  opening, explaining Penfield's little kindnesses on the eve of his 85th  birthday, is worth a read for the true Penfield devoteé.	2000-06-17
US	50659531	R359S1X0F1ZWQA	0966599802	884468086	Adrift in a Vanishing City	Books	5	9	11	N	Y	Mapping the undiscovered country	Wilder Penfield, a turn-of-the-century neurosurgeon, called the mind the &quot;undiscovered country.&quot;  Mr Czyz, a fellow cartographer of the interior world, appears intent on mapping the province we call  &quot;memory.&quot;<br />In this binding of loosely-connected short stories,  he blends cartography and introspection, facts as concrete as blood and  philosophy abstract as dreams to delineate the bounds of the vanishing  city.  Is it Paris?  Cairo?  Pittsburg, Kansas?  Lyndhurst, New Jersey?  Or  just that Erewhon that lurks in our hippocampi, triggering on the proper  stimuli to drown us in rivers of nostalgia?<br />The stories follow the  wanderings of Zirque Granges, lover, rover, and adventurer; and they trace  out the web of personalities and cities he maps.  As Delany points out in  his prefatory note, there is precious little here of economy, of the  politic, or the practical; set adrift from these moorings, what is left is  the psychological and a touch of the picaresque - a ticket for a journey  into mind, if one is like-minded.<br />I recommend this book without  reservation, as a diverting and enthusiastic first foray by a young and  slightly non-traditional writer.	2000-03-27
