US	50665966	R3Q7C35RV2MPJI	0439064864	667539744	Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets	Books	5	16	19	N	N	Whodunnit, fantasy, monsters, magic, and wit...	I've always been incredulous that people could consider these books the work of the Devil, because they are superb pieces of fiction in their own right. Fiction is made-up, and I consider this book - The Chamber of  Secrets - to easily be the best of the first three books. Its plot is  worthy of one of the classic whodunnits, with its convolutions, its twists  and turns, and its red herrings. We allow ourselves to think one way, and  then another, and then Rowling surprises us and knocks us sideways by  revealing the solution. And the solution makes sense, when you think back  through the book. This is a very good book for fans of Agatha Christie and  the classic whodunnit genre. The plotting is surprisingly complex and  mature for a recommended reader age of  - what is it? - 11, 12? which is  largely why the Harry Potter books have so successfully captured the  attention of adults. These are books for intelligent people of any age; a  rare commodity, and even rarer is the fact that they can be read by people  of almost any age. Of course, I would not recommend these books for the  very youngest children, and they can be truly spinechilling, but there is  nothing wrong with horror if it is firmly set in a fantasy world. There  have been complaints that these books stereotype all Muggles as stupid  lumpish people, but frankly - this book is written from the viewpoint of a  world where witchcraft and wizardy is a way of life. It is no wonder that  Muggles seem stupid, because they do not know or see the same things as the  non-Muggles do. We are fortunate to be allowed to read about these things,  and it makes us view this world with renewed wonder and magic. Because what  is mundane becomes marvellous. Read these books to your children, or if  they are old enough to read, read it with them. Your children will learn to  think, especially if you discuss the issues raised by the books. There have  been complaints that Harry Potter makes it good to tell untruths. I read  all three books recently, to see whether this was a fair statement, and can  tell you that where the untruths appear, they are almost always accompanied  by a Very Good Reason - someone or something's life needs saving, or a very  important talisman needs recovery. The lying and untruths are not  gratituous, and the authorities usually find out about them at the end of  the day, and excuse them with good reason. Joanne Rowling's prose is not  bland-bland, or unduly convoluted, but settles at a very satisfactory point  in between. She writes with wit, humour, warmth and intelligence, about  real people who make the same mistakes and do the same things that Muggles  would do in the same circumstances. Children's writing is where the  discerning adult has to look these days, if they want good plotting, clever  reasoning and strong characterisation, and fantasy as well. To find all  these rolled up in one book is a delight; to find that they are rolled up  in a trilogy - one day to be a septology - is wonderful. If Rowling had put  her hand to classic whodunnit, in the mould of the women crime writers such  as Christie, Tey, James and Rendell, she would quickly have become just  another of those women writers. But she has instead combined her head for a  strong whodunnit plot with magical elements and fantasy, and has produced  something that is original in its elements, if not totally original in its  concepts. And it is the best-written, best-composed of all the  magician's-school stories I have encountered.<br />I would like to add that I  believe in God, and have seen nothing in Rowling to support the accusations  that she is an arrant heathen and writes blatantly pagan stories. She is  just a very good writer, and one who deserves her success. I will certainly  be buying her next book, and the one after that, and the one after th....all three books recently, to see whether this was a fair statement, and can  tell you that where the untruths appear, they are almost always accompanied  by a Very Good Reason - someone or something's life needs saving, or a very  important talisman needs recovery. The lying and untruths are not  gratituous, and the authorities usually find out about them at the end of  the day, and excuse them with good reason. Joanne Rowling's prose is not  bland-bland, or unduly convoluted, but settles at a very satisfactory point  in between. She writes with wit, humour, warmth and intelligence, about  real people who make the same mistakes and do the same things that Muggles  would do in the same circumstances. Children's writing is where the  discerning adult has to look these days, if they want good plotting, clever  reasoning and strong characterisation, and fantasy as well. To find all  these rolled up in one book is a delight; to find that they are rolled up  in a trilogy - one day to be a septology - is wonderful. If Rowling had put  her hand to classic whodunnit, in the mould of the women crime writers such  as Christie, Tey, James and Rendell, she would quickly have become just  another of those women writers. But she has instead combined her head for a  strong whodunnit plot with magical elements and fantasy, and has produced  something that is original in its elements, if not totally original in its  concepts. And it is the best-written, best-composed of all the  magician's-school stories I have encountered.<br />I would like to add that I  believe in God, and have seen nothing in Rowling to support the accusations  that she is an arrant heathen and writes blatantly pagan stories. She is  just a very good writer, and one who deserves her success. I will certainly  be buying her next book, and the one after that, and the one after th....	2000-06-16
US	50665966	R30NDGU0WG7015	0373834470	825722191	Talisman Ring	Books	5	73	74	N	N	Ride ventre รก terre to your Heyer supplier for this!	The Talisman Ring is a marvellous piece of comedy, high drama, farce, romance and wit. If you find Regency drawing-room dramas slow-moving, but enjoy the beautiful writing, and want something to set your pulse racing  and your excitement on end - buy The Talisman Ring. If you love mystery,  this book is considered by some to be Heyer's masterpiece from her mystery  writing career - probably because it is not a mystery in the strict sense  of the word. It is a late 18th century story of snowdrifts,  misunderstandings, disguises, humour, murder, and stolen rings. The book is  very romantic, with one of Heyer's most likeable casts - Eustacie de  Vauban, the romantic, strong-willed French refugee, Ludovic, Lord Lavenham,  refugee of justice, smuggler and rogue, Miss Thane, as sensible as she is  romantic and inventive, and Sir Tristram, one of Heyer's sardonic dark  heroes. With Basil Lavenham, the oily dandy, a charming innkeeper, his deaf  sister, a couple of bumbling Bow Street Runners, and Hugo Thane, Justice of  the Peace, this is a happy, very fast-moving novel full of the sort of  corruption that the reader can forgive, and it is just the right length for  a beginner. Younger readers, in particular, should thoroughly be  recommended to read this book to introduce them to the world of Heyer and  its high drama, stylised manners and wonderful language.	2000-06-16
US	50665966	REIUFDSVEOWSQ	0312203241	279845342	Emotionally Weird: A Novel	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Emotionally manipulative	When this book came out in the UK in May I was so excited, I even bought it in hardback. Kate Atkinson is that rare writer - one who knows as much about writing as how to write, and she shows this to advantage in an  extremely clever book. She veers on the self-indulgent with her myriad  storylines interweaving in and out of this book, but her charm and great  good humour shine throughout; and I greatly regretted that we did not see  more of her lead character's gloriously campy and wickedly parody-like  detective novel. The word games and language play which characterise  Atkinson are not so subtle as they were in &quot;Human Croquet&quot; (which  still remains her best novel) but they still provide a source of much  enjoyment and delight; amusing us as much as they entertain the brain and  make the reader think. She is one of our greatest modern writers, and even  if Emotionally Weird is not as good as her last two books (Human Croquet,  and Behind The Scenes at the Museum, which latter is much praised by people  and described as &quot;The perfect novel&quot;) , and is, undeniably,  flawed in some ways - The symbolism and development of Atkinson's  storyline, with the private eye and the yellow dog, is not as clear cut as  one would wish for. However - and this is the truly magical thing - with an  Atkinson novel, you can re-read it and everything suddenly becomes  different. Words dropped here and there become surprisingly important,  dialogue leaps into focus, things you ignored suddenly force themselves  into your consciousness a second time around. The book grips the brain as  much as it thrills and mystifies, entertains and satisfies. Not only is it  extremely funny, extremely baffling, and extremely intelligent, but it is  extreme in its own right. The plot lays itself open to ridicule, but so  strong is Atkinson's power and skill that we never think &quot;Goodness,  what a daft plot!&quot;. The portraits of the characters are marvellously  precise, true tolife and bitingly witty. Thankyou, Kate, for understanding  that characters are very important in a novel. A mediocre plot can be  pulled off with strong characters, a faintly weird plot is a success. Kate,  you may not have quite parallelled the superlative wealth of your second  book, but you're still a damn good authoress. And the exciting thing is -  there is obviously room for improvement! This is not a bad thing when  someone writes as well as she does. What I am saying to you is that Kate  Atkinson will go on to write even better - though it hardly seems possible  - than she does now. Her style will develop, and when she is at her most  matured, she will be one of the literary greats of her day. I heartily  recommend the purchase of this book, but would suggest strongly that you  buy her other books as well, and start with Human Croquet - which is more  accessible and immediately understandable. Having read that, you can then  embark upon this book - and you will be all the better for it. I promise  you.	2000-05-31
US	50665966	R328V5DLRHOXLK	0373834462	372958735	Cousin Kate	Books	4	57	64	N	N	The last of the truly classic Heyers	.................................... Her writing style is always exquisite, and her ear for dialogue is parallelled by none. Even in a book where she was not at her utmost greatest, she is still very readable; and Cousin Kate is one of those books. It is not Heyer at her best, however.  The characters are just a shade under-developed, veering dangerously  towards the two-dimensional, which is very unusual for Heyer, and the story  is not as elegantly plotted as we expect from Heyer. Having said this, it  remains to be said that  &quot;Cousin Kate&quot; shows Heyer at the last  height of her talent. Her last historical romances after &quot;Cousin  Kate&quot; were &quot;Charity Girl&quot; and &quot;Lady of Quality&quot;,  both proving a sad disappointment on the whole. So &quot;Cousin Kate&quot;  is Heyer's last wholly successful and well-written novel. This gives the  book a pathos to the Heyer fan, as does the fact that it was written during  a serious illness on Heyer's part. If you read the book, you can sense the  author's illness-induced depression underneath the surface comedy, and more  obviously, in the dark twists and turns of the Gothic plot. However, Cousin  Kate remains a classic Heyer study of character and Regency attitudes, and  boasts a wonderfully warm and generous heroine who it is impossible not to  dislike, and one of Heyer's most pleasant and agreeable heroes. (If you're  expecting the bared teeth and masterful machoism of a Regency Buck, you  will be disappointed, but if you like a man who you can talk to, who is  warm and considerate and dependant, here is a book that will satisfy you as  regards romance) It was written in response to the popularity of the Gothic  romance as exemplified in Victoria Holt, so inevitably, such a departure  from the &quot;Heyer mould&quot; of gentle and pleasant romance with a  strongly realistic and sensible basis could disappoint some fans. But  having said all this, I highly recommend the book &quot;Cousin Kate.&quot;  to anyone who wants to see how competently Heyer handled what is an  essentially different type of historical novel.	2000-05-03
US	50665966	R2AS06W5NJKC1T	0373834454	619745516	The Convenient Marriage	Books	5	138	141	N	N	H-h-humour, H-H-Heyer, and h-h-high spirits	and a stammering heroine! As always, Heyer's dialogue is spot on, her characterisation warm and powerful, and her characters very strongly drawn. The Convenient Marriage is considered in some circles to be one of the  finest ever examples of a romance that portrays a flawed and unorthodox  heroine, with its portrayal of the stammering, plain Horatia, and her  marriage of convenience to the extremely handsome Earl of Rule, thus  releasing her sister from any obligation to marry Rule. How Rule discovers  the truth of his heart, and that he loves his funny, extravagant little  wife, makes for moving reading, whilst Heyer gives us abundant humour in  her portrayal of the mincing, petulant dandiprat Crosby Drelincourt; and in  the escapades of Horatia. It is all the greatest of great good fun, and one  of Heyer's most easily accessible books - its readability, exuberance and  humour make it an excellent book for a potential introduction to the world  of Georgette Heyer. However, this book is NOT a Regency Romance, but a  Georgian Romance, and if you don't think it's as historically accurate as  she usually is, consider that it is set in 1770 - about 50 years earlier  than usual! It's still a lot of fun.	2000-04-04
US	50665966	R3BXC4C466HLB1	0941807290	304310088	Dance Me To The End Of Love	Books	5	56	57	N	N	...Show me slowly what I only know the limits of....	I'm a great fan of this series of books - each takes a poem and an artist, and blends the words of the poem with the images of the artist to create a harmonious, well-matched whole. Dance Me To The End Of Love is the most  successful of the sequence, with Matisse's gliding, extravagantly  curvaceous artwork and Leonard Cohen's beautiful song-poem floating around,  in and out of each other, the words complementing the images complementing  the words. It is a beautiful book to look at and to read, to savour and  enjoy. Matisse was an artist whose images had all the flying poise and  grace of the dancer, and is the only possible artist who could have  complemented Leonard Cohen's song. I am delighted to possess this book, and  can read it over and over again, admiring the beauty and vision of the  person who set the typeface and layout of the pages. If you love beautiful  things, and admire Matisse, this is a book you must have casually tossed  onto your coffee table - see how many people lean forward and glance  inside, and are riveted immediately.	2000-04-01
US	50665966	R1ZL5NSVN5QWDO	0941807207	641537842	Shape Of My Heart (Art & Poetry Series)	Books	4	24	25	N	N	He doesn't play for respect,	he plays for us all. Sting's song is a haunting, beautifully composed melody from one of the most intelligent song-writers of contemporary times; beautifully if not always ideally complemented by Picasso's artwork. The  marriage of poetry and art was slightly more successful in the case of  Matisse and Leonard Cohen (Dance Me To The End of Love), and in the case of  Cummings and Chagall (May I Feel? Said He), but it is still of a very high  standard. Had I not already experienced the other two books, I would  certainly have believed that this was the best of its type. The layout and  font is as always, perfectly chosen, and the book is a great pleasure to  look at, like all the books in this series. It is a must-buy by any  standard, anyhow!  A friend tells me that this is the song played in the  film &quot;Leon&quot;, so there's a film which I must watch in the future!  I hope that everyone who enjoyed this book goes on to find the rest of the  books in this sequence, and discovers what a really good combination of  words and images can be like.	2000-04-01
US	50665966	R186XVK0IQBLXD	0425152251	380749586	Sophie's World: A Novel about the History of Philosophy	Books	3	7	7	N	N	At some point something came from nothing...	...and that something was an idea. And more and more ideas came, and Jostein Gaarder has collected the most important of those ideas in this novel. Described as a potted history of philosophy, it is just that, and  has a right to be termed Jostein Gaarder's greatest novel. Multi-layered  narrative and mystery is used to emphasise factors of the philosophies of  the past; a girl is shadowed by a strange man who asks her questions; the  ideas come back and she discusses them. This novel is extremely intelligent  and thoughtful, and as far as fame and success goes, is Jostein Gaarder's  greatest novel. As far as writing and overall quality goes, the ideas and  aims cannot be faulted, but the process has many flaws. This could be the  translator's failing, but Gaarder's narrative mysteriously falls apart when  he tries to debunk the characters we have grown used to, to reduce them to  somebody else's narrative. The turns and twists of the plot become  increasingly surreal, and the book suffers, which is a shame, because up  until the last 50 or so pages, it is a superb work of philosophy and ideas.  Jostein Gaarder's magnum opus does not really work quite as well as his  masterpiece to date, &quot;The Solitaire Mystery&quot;; and the idea of the  history of ideas as fiction was better and more fluently handled in  &quot;The Christmas Mystery&quot;. This is an extremely good book let down  by an inexplicably weird and dissatisfactory ending.	2000-03-15
US	50665966	R2VYMI12AZHBUO	0552139440	323919731	Diana's Story	Books	5	14	14	N	N	No, this is NOT about Princess Diana.	In a later book Longden records that a woman assaulted him at a book-signing for this book, believing that he was James Hewitt, and the book was about the Princess of Wales. It is not. This anecdote highlights  Longden's eye and ear for the small nuances of trivia and life that so  often are forgotten, but which are so true and funny that we ought to  remember them more often. When people deride Longden for making comic  novels about his family's sufferings, I cannot but feel sorry for them.  Diana's Story is a very warm book, full of the human touch and a great  sense of humour, full of love and soul. It could so easily be an angry and  embittered novel which would please the critics and anyone with literary  pretensions, a searing attack upon the medical services who failed to  recognise his wife's ME, but although it is full of anger and sorrow, it is  also full of humour and love. Diana's refusal to be ground down by her  demeaning and agonising illness is an inspiration to us all. Her warmth and  humour shine through, despite her suffering and agony, as does that of her  husband, who wrote the story. We laugh and cry simultaneously, the wit and  the pathos so exquisitely blended that our feelings are exercised well and  truly. It is a beautiful book, both laugh-out-loud funny, and fantastically  sad, and should be an inspiration to anybody who reads it. Books about  sickness and death don't have to be morbid and dark. They can be funny  without compromising their power to move us.	2000-03-06
US	50665966	R2SE21KZ94ZPFF	068483068X	716836572	Gone With the Wind	Books	5	62	69	N	N	Lust... melodrama... passion... and crinoline.	Margaret Mitchell wrote, for her first book (an earlier work, called &quot;Lost Laysen&quot; has since been published), an exhaustingly researched, wide-ranging, exciting and thrilling book set in the Civil War.  This book - Gone With The Wind - was a runaway success; and ultimately made  into the biggest movie of its day. Alright, let's admit it, by modern  standards it's sexist, racist, overblown, and melodramatic. And it's pretty  darned brilliant. I have read this book no less than ten times!  In theory,  one ought to detest that spoiled little brazen, Scarlett O'Hara, but  Margaret Mitchell makes her into a vivid, strong human being, a woman with  spirit and the will to survive, but who was essentially immature and  spoilt. But she was fiercely protective, loyal, and someone who you were  forced to admire, even as you disliked what she was doing. She also had a  alarming propensity to fall in love with the wrong men - this was a woman  doomed to claw her way anywhere to succeed, but at the same time,  estranging herself in the eyes of her Society. But does she give up, does  she make it a tragedy? No. She gets up and keeps going, she just doesn't  let people see that she minds it very much. She is an inspiration, but she  doesn't really deserve to be. Scarlett is flawed, hideously so, but none  the less, we are forced to admire her. She IS the book. A weaker or less  flawed heroine would be irritating or just TOO unsympathetic. Her  unrequitted love is very believable, it's happened to most of us at one  time in our youth, and we never really quite shake that first infatuation  off without a rude or painful awakening.<br />The attitudes which feature in  this book, although sexist and racist to us now, were perfectly normal for  Civil War Southerners - Margaret Mitchell really understood the way people  behaved at this time, and did not make them behave out of period or in  anachronistic ways. Like Georgette Heyer and Regency England, she has a  true understanding and insight into the period she is writing about - she  LIVES it, and her people could have been alive then without unduly standing  out as unusual or unremarkable.<br />Scarlett is a rebel, but she does not go  as far as a modern author might make her heroine go. She loves her family  and her land, though she may deny it, and she is very proud. She is an  inspirational woman, a true forerunner of the power woman of the 1980s - a  sensational concept, even for the 1930s!  The clever thing is how, in such  a huge and spreading book, everything comes together. It may seem trivial  and unnecessary to discuss Aunt Pittypat's drawing room, or go into the  minutae of Scarlett's wardrobe, or to discuss events that happened a long  time ago, but believe me, it is all very important in building up a  coherent and very accurate (scarily accurate, for 1930s historical fiction  - Heyer and Mitchell, as far as I know, were the only authors at this time  who really bothered to research in depth for their &quot;lightweight&quot;  historical fiction writing.) Gone With The Wind is a masterpiece. It must  not be read with modern eyes, but as an amazing study of how people  behaved, lived, and survived throughout the Civil War in America on the  losing side.	2000-02-17
US	50665966	R23DWYME0WKD3L	0425105288	46722381	The Grand Sophy	Books	5	253	259	N	N	The Grand Georgette	This book was voted one of the 400 best novels ever to come out of the 20th century; chosen out of Heyer's entire oeuvre to represent the best of her work. They made the best choice. Heyer invented a genre, that of the  Regency Romance, which became cheapened by countless imitators and  emulators as well as many very good authors who got lost among the dross  and the sweeping statements which consigned the Regency Romance to an  undeservedly low-rated place. The Grand Sophy shows Heyer at her very best  - it is a outrageously funny book that still has me laughing out loud (I  had to stop reading it on the train because other passengers began to  complain), it presents a cast of strongly drawn and complex characters,  premier among whom is the titular Sophy - Sophia Stanton-Lacy, the  irrepressible, indefagitable young woman with a personality the size of all  England. From her extravagant arrival at her aunt and uncle's house  accompanied by a monkey, a parrot, an Italian greyhound, and a very fine  horse - to say nothing of her strong managing nature and charisma, she  takes her rather hare-brained cousins in hand, sorting out their  entanglements, scandals and romantic peccadilloes in a helter-skelter way.  A book for those who always know the best for everyone else, unless you  don't want to encourage them. It is a fast-moving, extravagantly amusing,  richly detailed and satisfyingly convoluted novel in which Heyer skilfully  draws myriad loose ends together with an incredible lightness and sureness  of hand - her great talent. Many imitators tend to do so with too heavy and  ponderous a style. Buy, borrow or beg this novel - but don't read it in  public unless you're good at suppressing laughter. And even better - unlike  several of Heyer's best novels, where the language can be somewhat  offputting, this book is among one of the most immediately accessible for  the novice to Heyer.	2000-02-15
US	50665966	R2S7Z41R9L1S97	0385006098	555428764	The Legend of the Seventh Virgin	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Exploring the Gothic...	Legend of the Seventh Virgin is an interesting book in the Victoria Holt canon. I am going to name another book and author: &quot;Cotillion&quot;, a Regency romance by Georgette Heyer, who invented that particular genre.  Holt, too, invented a particular kind of modern Gothic with a strong  romantic element, which was an instant success in the same way as the  Regency. Anyway, &quot;Cotillion&quot; is a novel in which Heyer subtly  subverts the traditions and mores of the Regency genre - rules she herself  established!  - and &quot;Seventh Virgin&quot; is a novel in which Victoria  Holt explores the themes of the particular genre that she created. (She was  influenced by Charlotte Bronte, but made the modern first-person narrative  Gothic historical romance her own). I think this is what makes it so  particularly interesting - Holt experiments with heroines and lead  characters, playing around with their roles and our expectations,  manipulating the rules she herself established (and unfortunately later  depended too much upon) for this genre. Snare of Serpents, one of the  better of her later books shows similar experimentation with the roles of  hero and heroine and subversion of our expectations.<br />The book is, as we  expect from Holt, interesting with the customary mysterious buildings and  ruins, the intriguing characters with the dark pasts, the sense of fear and  dread and the eventual, startling, unexpected conclusion. However, I did  not particuarly like the last chapter, which appeared to be an  after-thought, a whole other separate study, as if it belonged to a  collection of short stories or in a folder of experimental jottings. Having  said that, Legend of the Seventh Virgin is still a great Holt, a  mysterious, slightly subversive Gothic which courageously plays a game with  the author's own rules and ways. If you are studying the development of the  Gothic romance through the ages, you should try to refer to this book as  well as to Holt's &quot;Mistress of Mellyn&quot; to sufficently represent  her work in this genre. It is dissatisfactory in some ways, but as a friend  said: <br />&quot;I thought it was an interesting twist upon the Gothic plot.  The characters didn't deserve the fates that would normally befall them. So  they didn't&quot;<br />I think this sums it up pretty well, really. A brave  and relatively successful experiment on Holt's part.	2000-02-14
US	50665966	R38XLCVZWLW0C2	0449239241	892225190	Mistress of Mellyn	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Great debut! but not a first novel	Victoria Holt's first novel - but not her first novel. How can this be? Because Victoria Holt was the same woman as Jean Plaidy, who had been writing since the 1940s. Anyway....<br />Mistress of Mellyn is an interesting  book. It is of interest to the literature student as being the first  example of the modern historical-Gothic genre. Written in the first-person  style which gives it immediacy and personal interest, it gives us a  beautifully developing romance and a true sense of creepiness. The Jane  Eyre theme of the governess, the masterful employer, and the sinister manor  house is well-handled with an almost ingenuous simplicity, the heroine  develops extremely well even if she is somewhat one-sided in her views. In  later novels Holt showed a worrying tendency to recycle her old plots with  minimal alterations; so it is best to read her in chronological order. She  is a skilled and fluent writer, the book is a treat to be savoured and  enjoyed in your own leisure. It isn't great literature, but it's great fun,  and of interest and relevance to the student of the Gothic romance through  the ages.	2000-02-14
US	50665966	RKVN0H0J357XI	0224013971	710067334	La Corona and the Tin Frog	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Now is the only time there is... to read this.	This was the last book I remember my granny giving me before her untimely death. I was just turned six years old. Fifteen years later, my copy is somewhat well-read, creased, dog-eared and tattered. I wouldn't part with  it. The pictures - I forget who the artist is - glow. They are exquisitely  detailed, rich, deep, and haunting; an exact and perfect complement to the  prose. It is a magical book; one that should be back in print AT ONCE and  NOW. Elegant prose; exquisite turn of language. Even after so long quotes  roll around my mouth like the finest wine - and ever since then I have been  striving to see between the dots; to step through the window between the  clock's striking one to twelve.<br />La Corona and the Tin Frog is a very  beautiful book. It brings together the discordant harmonies of the short  stories with fluent elegance and a truly mature style; imparts magic to the  cosy world of a child's nursery. The artist who illustrated my copy truly  captured the mood and magic of the book; so much that as a tiny child I was  terrified, enthralled and entranced all at once. It is one of the books I  would never be without - I may purchase a less battered copy in time, but I  shall always cherish and treasure the last book my granny bought me. Buy  this for your children where you see a copy. Especially if the cover shows  a cigar-box, a beautiful woman in a red dress, a green tin frog, and a  wooden incense-burner shaped like a night watchman. That copy is a work of  art!	2000-02-11
US	50665966	R2LYABS0T4P4BD	0451131630	158620006	An Infamous Army	Books	5	59	61	N	N	It doesn't deserve five stars....	but oh my gosh, it demands twice as many again! An Infamous Army is an incredible book. On one level, it is considered by Waterloo historians to be one of the most important texts ever written about the Battle of  Waterloo and its aftermath; and actually used to be - I don't know if it  still is - a compulsory read for all Army cadets and students of military  history. And on another level, it features a passionate, outrageous romance  between the lovely, scandalous Lady Barbara Childe - the ultimate of all  Heyer's Bad Women - and Charles Audley, the handsome and dashing soldier.  She is the descendant of the hero and heroine of Heyer's great 18th century  melodrama, &quot;These Old Shades&quot;. He is related to the Earl of Worth  in &quot;Regency Buck&quot;. Their blazing and passionate courtship sets  this book almost on fire. Babs, brazen as her red hair, is definitely the  most shocking of all Heyer's heroines. The book is full of character  development set against a practically flawless reconstruction of the events  surrounding 1815. Heyer handles tragedy, humour (ranging from the decorous  to the deliciously vulgar), high emotion, dislike and distrust, arguments,  and pathos, and a dozen other elements without the smallest suggestion of  sentimentality. The only problem is that, if you are not a military buff,  you may find the description of Waterloo hard to follow. But I just allow  this wonderful book to flow past me, and have re-read it many times. Many  critics consider this Heyer's greatest achievement, and I must agree. It  blends her two main features - her humour and her historical accuracy - so  that both stand on their own, yet complement one another. Along with  Cotillion, a witty subversion of Heyer's own traditional Regency plots  (I've also reviewed this book on Amazon); and The Grand Sophy, which was  voted one of the top 400 Novels of the Millennimum recently; An Infamous  Army shows Georgette Heyer at her best. If only all set books could be this  enjoyable!	2000-02-04
US	50665966	R1SDC564XGEXSX	0312186886	387660503	Human Croquet: A Novel	Books	5	82	86	N	N	As good as, if not better than Behind The Scenes.	I read Kate Atkinson's first book somewhat reluctantly - &quot;Behind The Scenes At The Museum&quot; - and then read it all through in delight and fascination. If anything, Human Croquet is even better. A tighter  narrative, a closer grasp upon the characters in her book, and an  incredible wit and talent for characterisation have combined to greatly  improve upon Atkinson's style. Behind the Scenes was an awesome debut.  Human Croquet is a marvellous book. I fell instantly in love with the  characters, even the ones you aren't really sure you're supposed to like,  but do anyway (Aunt Vinny is an absolute black delight.). It explores  realities and dreamlands, plays around with our expectations and thoughts,  and eventually everything falls into place. You MUST re-read this book at  least three times. It's the only way you will ever realise just what a  superlative work of art it is - complex, deep, and very, very  clever....<br />I have just discovered that Kate Atkinson's next book is out  in June! O frabjous day! Callooh! Callay!<br />Anyway... there is so much I  could say about this book - it is a devastatingly devious whodunnit, that  you don't even realise is a whodunnit until you realise it IS one; it is a  extremely funny, barbed and ironic book; it is a character driven piece as  well as a plot-driven piece. It is one of my top 10 books of all time. The  only other book I can think of that comes even close to Kate Atkinson's  style in this book is Jostein Gaarder's &quot;The Solitaire Mystery&quot;	2000-01-31
US	50665966	R12MXJU7UFEVOT	0896762173	409359120	Costume in Detail: 1730-1930	Books	5	151	153	N	N	A work of art	Any artist or draughtsman would agree that this book - which is composed of hundreds of line drawings - is an incredible achievement. Nancy Bradfield's tireless research and shining talent with a pencil have  produced one of the most incredible and singular costume reference  textbooks in a long time. Original costumes and accessories have been taken  by this artist, studied inside and out, measured methodically and every  seam and mark noted - and then drawn down. Some of the costumes are far too  fragile, or too soiled and damaged ever to be mounted for photography, and  will probably never be available to the general public. But in Nancy  Bradfield's drawings, they become fresh, vivid and whole once more,  three-dimensional garments. The annotations to the drawings themselves are  very informative - colour notes accompanying a silk pattern, the  measurement of the waists and shoulders, observations upon the styling or  similarities between this and another item. My increasingly well-worn and  well-read copy saw me through my A Levels in Costume and Fashion History (I  got a grade A pass), and it will, hopefully, see me through my secondary  degree in the History of Dress. I would not dare to go away to study 18th  or 19th century costume without taking this book with me or being able to  put my hand upon a copy.<br />Some of these costumes can be seen in full  colour in photographs in &quot;The Art of Dress&quot;, and most of the 19th  century dresses from the M.J.King and &quot;Personal Collection&quot; are  now in the Killerton House costume collection in Devon, UK. (This is also  featured in Jane Ashelford's Art of Dress.)<br />Buy this book and your  studies of costume - be it construction queries (Janet Arnold and Nancy  Bradfield coincidentally illustrated some of the same dresses - Arnold's  books give you the pattern but Nancy Bradfield's book will show you how it  was put together and how it should look inside and out.) or just to study  the subject - itwill all become so much easier. Tragically, this author  lost her sight in later years, and her recent death (as well as that of  Janet Arnold's) has robbed the world of two of its greatest and most  talented costume researchers. Fortunately their names will never be  forgotten as long as their books continue to be published and to remain,  literally, compulsory reading for the costume student.	2000-01-31
US	50665966	R3MS18A629Y99V	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	15	17	N	N	I am ashamed of my kinsmen.	Why? Because I believe in God, and I believe in the Good, but I have been ashamed to read the misanthropic and vindictive attacks upon this book by people who claim to share my beliefs and values.<br />Harry Potter is a magnificent and fascinating book. There is nothing at all offensive about  witchcraft or sorcery as portrayed in this book, because it is about the  ultimate using of powers for the proper ends. Even the deceit is justified,  following soul-searching and worries. That is human life, and sometimes  it's better not to know certain things. It is imaginative and thrilling,  with genuine originality used to spice up a well-trodden theme (The Worst  Witch school stories, for example, predate the idea of a school for  witchcraft), and references to the ancient myths. Thus, it is educational.  It informs you about such things as mandrakes, unicorns, phoenix,  cockatrices and the like, and about the myths and legends connected to  those beasts. It encourages you to imagine and to think for yourself. It  was truly frightening, but everything ended happily and satisfactorily. The  plot was logical enough for a child, yet elaborate enough to please the  mature mind. Of course, Harry's uncle and aunt are grotesque. They embody  the narrow-mindedness of my so-called kinsmen, who lack magic and joy for  life in their souls, and who lack the imagination to understand that magic  is all in the mind. &quot;Children will start dabbling in sorcery&quot;,  INDEED. And so what if they do? They are very likely to go on to become  eminent scientists or great philosophers. They may write, paint or create  works of art. They will use their brains to make life interesting, and will  be open-minded. They are reading, and learning, and they know from the  world around them that such things cannot happen to them. There are  positive Muggles too, just as there are positive and negative wizards,  creatures and monsters, and there are people who are neither totally good  or evil, just like in the world. If your child cannot distinguish between  fantasy and reality at 8 years old, what kind of parent can you have been?  There is fantasy everywhere. Even the wholesome Sesame Street is a fantasy.  Do children grow up thinking that birds talk, and that monsters live in  garbage cans? No. So why pick upon this immensely popular (and deservedly  so) book? It is a much, much better book than most books written for  children. Long live Harry Potter!st like in the world. If your child cannot distinguish between  fantasy and reality at 8 years old, what kind of parent can you have been?  There is fantasy everywhere. Even the wholesome Sesame Street is a fantasy.  Do children grow up thinking that birds talk, and that monsters live in  garbage cans? No. So why pick upon this immensely popular (and deservedly  so) book? It is a much, much better book than most books written for  children. Long live Harry Potter!	2000-01-29
US	50665966	R4OFA595EDXB2	084782151X	951185834	Fashion in Detail: From the 17th and 18th Centuries	Books	5	30	30	N	N	Superb! Magnificent!	WHAT a wonderful book. Never has a museum published a more mouth-watering and so informative reference book. Forget the idea that all museum publications are dry and arid - even if you don't really like costume or  fashion you MUST look at this book. The photography is of the very highest  quality. If a picture is worth at least a thousand words, then there are  millions of words in this book - millions of words that have never been  coined, but which describe the small minutae - the rich colouring - the  magnificent designs and craftmanship - the hitherto unsuspected marvel of a  seam or a collar - the small pattern that you would never have noticed in a  figured silk. Every library and art gallery and museum must have a copy of  this book. Even artists ought to buy a copy, because it is invaluable as a  source for design and ideas. I highly recommend this book. You can almost  feel the satins and stroke the embroideries, feeling their texture. Dress  is definitely an art form. Just ask this book with a mere glance, and you  will get your answer - a resounding YES. The reviews below say this so much  better than I could.	2000-01-29
US	50665966	R2JQMZP3XR3406	0679785892	58271710	Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas: A Savage Journey to the Heart of the American Dream	Books	1	33	83	N	N	I bothered to read THIS?	This book is loathsome. I don't even rate it at all. It is incoherent, rambling, and remarkable solely for its subject - which CLAIMS to be realistic and drug-fuelled. It is sordid, squalid and depressing, with no  redeeming qualities, except to convince one that drugs are just as you  always thought they were. This book is overhyped, and nauseating. The  cartoons merely annoy and irritate, especially the deliberately blotted  pages. There is no insight into the human soul, or what passes for a human  soul in these soulless victims of their own selves. I still do not believe  that I read it all through, and will definitely never do so again. Never  before has a book actually made me feel so physically sick - I would have  flung it on the fire had there been one handy. The only thing it would be  good for would be as compulsory reading in drying-out drug rehab clinics,  to convince people that they don't deserve to demean themselves so  miserably in this way again.<br />There is only one good episode in this  entire work, involving a sportsman and a young fan, which genuinely shows  some insight and considered attack upon the American dream. The rest of the  book is all misanthropic attack, failing to satisfy the principal rule of  satire - there MUST be at least some basis of the thing you are attacking  in your attack, rather than just attack and nothing to show what you are  attacking.	2000-01-29
US	50665966	R3INXJ7GMKNEHQ	0891906460	699645056	Penhallow	Books	5	97	97	N	N	Fear and loathing in Heyer's world.	Could this really be by the same woman who wrote Cotillion, and The Grand Sophy, and many other marvellously witty historical romances? It is a Heyer that isn't a typical Heyer, but I highly recommend it. If you thought Heyer  could only write romantic fluff and froth, you failed to notice and  appreciate the cast-iron gauntlet of reality beneath the soft  swansdown-trimmed velvet glove. Penhallow is a very unusual book, written  to persuade Heyer's publishers to break off her contract - and it shows  just how much talent Heyer had. She sat down and rushed off this book, and  it came out as this deeply disquieting, deliberately dissatisfactory - but  yet compelling and fascinating novel. One of her most savage and  dysfunctional families comes together in this book. The imagery is  powerful, the writing pulls no punches. This book will shock you if you  thought you knew Heyer's style, it may even be a severe disappointment (I  do not find it disappointing, but it is admittedly very hard to categorise)  but it is frighteningly good. The tyranny and sadism of the old man  unfortunately is all too believable, as are the reactions and behaviour of  his family. It is a psychological novel with no romantic elements, and must  not be read with the expectation of romance, but rather, prepared for the  macabre, and the insights into the downtrodden or controlled psyches and  minds. It is an extremely interesting book, and astonishingly well-written.	2000-01-29
US	50665966	R4ALE28LLR859	0899661270	713597817	Cotillion	Books	5	159	164	N	N	One of the great Regency Romances.	This book has been described as one of the greatest Regency romances of all time. It subtly and with cracking good humour subverts all the expectations of the genre with a great deal more subtlety, humour and  cunning than most deliberate parodies. Heyer builds up her usual cast of  powerful and memorable characters - no two-dimensional characters for  her!<br />She gives us a vain and slightly selfish, yet also totally generous  and completely charming heroine, who you cannot dislike; a delightful,  stammering and ineffectual dandy who turns out to have gumption beneath his  affectations, his lovely, silly sister with no fashion sense, but a great  deal of kindness, a wicked rake who yet fascinates and interests us - a  cast literally of dozens of characters, all of whom are distinctively  portrayed.<br />There are no less than four romantic plots in this book,  interthreaded and interwoven out of each other with exquisite grace -  (hence the title - &quot;Cotillion&quot; - basically a gay little dance).  In less skilled hands this book would have become heavy-handed and  ponderous, exquisitely tactless. In Heyer's hands the book is light and  flowing, fluently written, complicated and yet not at all hard to follow.  It is a book for the fan of Heyer, and is best read after you have  cultivated a familarity with Heyer's traditional Regencies - for example,  Regency Buck. She subtly and wickedly subverts traditions she herself  established.<br />You'll laugh, you'll cry, your emotions will all be twanged  one by one. It is a very fine book. A very fine book indeed. I won't tell  you who the hero is, because it would ruin the book for you - but you won't  be disappointed. Cotillion is a happy book, written by Heyer at the very  height of her powers. It is not just a Regency Romance. It is a novel about  history - Heyer's Regency novels have, collectively, been described as the  most important set of books about the Regency middle and upper class  lifestyle ever to bewritten. It is a novel about real people. It is also a  novel about the Regency Romance. And it is also a seriously comic novel.  Read it. Preferably after you have read several others of her Regency  Romances (I recommend Regency Buck, Sylvester, Faro's Daughter, and The  Corinthian as the best examples of Heyer's traditional Regency - that she  subtly teased in this book), so you have the right expectations.	2000-01-28
US	50665966	R39VTFJK4XTZU3	0374123292	416783644	The Christmas Mystery	Books	4	11	11	N	N	One of the great seasonal novels	We have grown to expect striking and intelligent philosophy and thought from Gaarder's books. The Christmas Mystery is, like The Solitaire Mystery, a deceptively simple and yet richly complex story. The only flaw, as far as  I'm concerned, is a faint cloying sweetness to the story, but even this can  easily be overlooked by the sheer cleverness and spirit of the narrative.  It is a potted history of Christmas through the ages, its evolution - or  rather, devolution, handled adeptly and intelligently. It is a true book  for all the family, and should become compulsory seasonal reading along  with A Night Before Christmas and The Christmas Carol. The nice thing about  Gaarder is that his mysteries only open up yet more mysteries - he solves  his mysteries and leaves us looking at the world through new eyes, trying  to explain our own personal mysteries that we have only just noticed....	2000-01-28
US	50665966	R2ZDSIQ3JPN0DX	042515999X	337776847	The Solitaire Mystery: a novel about family and destiny	Books	5	53	56	N	N	A modern classic and an adult fairy tale	The Solitaire Mystery is Jostein Gaarder's best book. (though arguably not his greatest, which is probably Sophie's World). Very few books make one want to sit down and re-read them all through again after the first  reading, but this is one of them. It is deceptively simple, yet the ideas  are so striking that you can't work out why nobody ever pointed them out  before. Jostein Gaarder took the theme of Alice in Wonderland to create an  entirely new and modern story based around the cards - you'll never look at  a playing-card in the same way again. Buy this for your entire family, even  for your children or grandchildren. Once you've read it you'll wonder why  you never read it before. A classic plot, yet such a very new one. Simple  yet incredibly complex, yet an intelligent child could understand it. A  novel of ideas that is coherent and striking and memorable. I tried very  hard to think of anything I didn't like or found substandard in this book,  and... I just couldn't. It is perfection itself. Even rereadings are highly  recommended. You discover the smallest details and nuances that passed  unremarked the first time around, which link back and forward to past or  future events, and only build up an even more coherent picture.	2000-01-27
US	50665966	RLS4ZNUYQID0O	0061002771	361041787	Crooked House	Books	5	51	54	N	N	Clever, chilling, cunning - and brilliant.	This is one of the Christie books I remember reading as a child. When I reread it recently, I was amazed at how superb it is - it is not a Poirot or Miss Marple mystery, not at all, but it is a very different type of  mystery. The shocking solution is in fact a brutal attack upon our own  culture, our obsession with murderers and murder, and the inexorable  impartiality of evil - it is a very frightening book, largely because it  does not follow ALL the strictures one expects of a murder mystery. A novel  as well as a whodunnit as well as a psychological study. And a grand  success.	2000-01-27
US	50665966	R14GA3CNT467DA	096279872X	613142017	The Toys of Princes	Books	5	15	16	N	N	A macabre marvel	Ghislain de Diesbach is one of the great short story writers of all time, on the weight of these stories. His vignettes of fantasy set in the exuberant and elaborate world of the thousand and one small kingdoms of  Eastern Europe, with their Baronesses, Countesses, Canonesses, Dukes, kings  and queens, and lords and ladies, are overwhelmingly nasty and yet at the  same time wonderfully addictive. With a controlled hand, Diesbach paints  sweeping pictures of small kingdoms, of mystical occurences and the  supernatural. He scarcely has a happy ending for anyone, yet his endings  satisfy. There is only one weak story in the whole book - The Divine  Baroness. Yet this story is rich in imagery and language as well. Read it.  You'll feel enriched and overwhelmed by the strange stories, the cruel and  biting humour, and the strange beauty of this book. The greatest story is  Iphigenie of Thuringe, though The Canoness Vanishes, The Apparitons of  Kurmunster, and the title story are also worthy of particular notice. A  book composed of miniature masterpieces and overwhelmingly memorable yet  appropriate endings. You wouldn't have them any other way, even though you  may feel saddened or exultant. Inevitability is the key word.	2000-01-27
US	50665966	RXFXBYQH2C0J5	0436012006	292832150	Collected Poems	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Allott, the neglected master.	We all know about WH Auden and Louis MacNeice, and the 1930s Poets. But how many of us know Allott? Kenneth Allott, who died in 1973, was a master of the reverse bathos technique. He raised the most trivial things to the most monumental importance, yet his preoccupations with death and time and  alienation were far from being depressing. He spoke with an unusual  ambiguity that transcended who you were, and yet addressed you and everyone  all at once. His small body of poems may be dandified and self-conscious,  but it is also some of the most moving and deep writing ever to come out of  the 1930s and 1940s.<br />In my opinion Allott's greatest ever poem is  &quot;The Statue&quot; - a romantic poem that could be addressed to anyone  at any time, be they man, woman, beast, or child, gay or straight, black or  white, able or disabled. It is asexual and ambiguous yet tender and  loving.<br />The best of Allott's other poems include:<br />Morning And Evening,  a powerful narrative poem which exemplifies his use of reverse bathos to  perfection in building up a oppressive and scary portrait of life in  wartime reduced to vignettes and vistas, still-lives and  destruction.<br />Aunt Sally Speaks: an aggressive and vicious rant, a demand  for answers that will probably never be answered, a howl of defiance with a  trembling undercurrent of terror. A savage yet beautiful poem which attacks  the indifference of man, and his sophisticated vulnerability in an  indifferent and cruel world.<br />I also recommend The Children, Lament for a  Cricket Eleven, Calenture, Exodus, Fete Champetre, Offering, and the poem  that starts &quot;Say goodnight and step over the mountain&quot;<br />Allott  wrote scarcely a bad poem (although there are a few in this collection that  are dubious) and even in his lesser works there are marvellous images and  powerful insights. I leave you with the last verse of Ode in Wartime, which  Roy Fuller draws our attention to in his foreword:<br />Phosphorshall rise  above a moon of sorrow,<br />And we shall know such a day as never  was,<br />Tomorrow, or a day after tomorrow,<br />Do what you will and when, love  whom you please.	2000-01-27
US	50665966	RSNYFWKJJD0M0	0192834339	109240111	Villette (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A masterpiece with an irremedial flaw.	The book is superb, thought provoking, well-written, cunning and deviously deep. It is good, on the whole. With one exception. Those irritating French conversations, which appear contrived and self-indulgent, and hinder the reader. The first time I tried reading this book, I was bogged down by the  French, which I consider almost a criminal offence - since it is a very  fine book, one of the most mature and deeply satisfying romances I have  ever read. Rarely does one encounter a romance that develops with such  depth and insight, that could so easily be offensive to our sensibilities,  but which succeeds. The Gothic aspects of this novel are less effective,  however, than the psychological aspects of this. It is basically a very  insightful and thoughtful study of human character. The ending is among one  of the greatest I have ever read in its almost deliberate and cruel  ambiguity, leaving us to make our own conclusions. Lucy Snowe is an  extremely flawed heroine and far from the perfect narrator, but at the same  time we are drawn into her world, and share with her her existence. I would  recommend that in future editions the translations to the French  conversations appear in footnotes ON the pages, which would greatly assist  the reader.	2000-01-26
US	50665966	R11OQ9SA3881MJ	0385122810	275616006	The Pride of the Peacock	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Pride is the right word	This is probably one of Holt's best books. She managed to put wit and humour into the narrative (something she occasionally failed to do in other novels), to create a spirited and likeable heroine and a hero, who, although suitably saturnine, was not as worryingly old, or as disturbingly  satanic as some of her others. The recurring theme of opals forms a  suitably sinister theme to this classic of the modern Gothic genre. It is a  very good read.	2000-01-26
US	50665966	R1PLKXIHVZ0NKM	0810963175	420015635	The Art of Dress: Clothes and Society 1500-1914	Books	5	53	56	N	N	Superb UK costume reference	This is a wonderful book!  And I'm not saying that just because I'm English and I know intimately the Paulise de Bush collection (one of the collections featured in this book.). It deals specifically with the history  of European costume (not American or ethnic costume - sorry, US of A'ians!)  as reflected in the collections of English houses and collections in the  National Trust, and has mouthwatering images. A MUST for all costume  historians and fans of the art of antique costume. It is unfair to complain  that this will not be of any help to the seamstress, because that was not  its aim. It is intended to overview the changes in English fashion as  reflected through the contents - paintings, engravings, drawings and actual  textiles - of Stately Houses and holdings belonging to the National Trust.  WONDERFUL book for the social historian of English fashion, and of interest  to anyone who appreciates costume for its own sake.	1999-12-01
