US	50665692	R6N3DB8HSTWEE	0765310015	599137545	Gardens of the Moon (The Malazan Book of the Fallen, Book 1)	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Enter a troubled world	Gardens of the Moon is an amazingly complex first book for what promises to be a fiendishly complicated series. I've seen reviews blasting it for not being Robert Jordan-like or GRR Martinoid enough, which is fine with me. If you'd like to examine the roots of this story, go back and read THE BLACK COMPANY by Glen Cook. But you'd have to set your nets pretty wide to catch every source he's drawn on. There's a pinch of Elric, a dash of Dying Earth, chunks of flesh sliced from dozens of sword-waving heroes, but the flavor is distinctly Black Company. Why doesn't it have more elves and dwarves and orcs? Er, China Miville can explain it better than I can, but the short answer is that copying Tolkien is impossible and the results are usually crap. Read it for what it is: an impressive debut by a new author, who's published in Canada and UK but just arriving here, and who is six or seven books along already in a projected 10-book series.	2004-07-23
US	50665692	R3HUF4YNJD2KJF	0553106635	549456361	A Storm of Swords (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 3)	Books	5	20	22	N	N	the blood drained from my face as I read	I read hugely and omnivorously, devouring good, bad, and mediocre alike in my quest for more printed material to stuff into my hopper. This is in many ways one of the best things I've ever read. It's marvelously entertaining, with great characters and a rock-solid world under their feet, and the story is worthwhile and fiendishly complicated and well-crafted. It's a sharp look at a quasi-medieval society unencumbered by much in the way of religion, philosophy or science, where the average man's life is nasty, brutish, and short. Martin tips his hat to dozens of other authors without plagiarizing, and the incredible wealth of detail creates a well-rounded work. But Martin has a thing in common with Stephen King as well: he introduces you to warm, living human beings, then puts them in horrible jeopardy. I literally felt the blood drain from my face as I saw where he was taking his story, and his people. I could rant and rave about the heraldry, and the backstory, and the families and bystanders and the actual fantastic elements of the story, about dragons and shadowbinders and blackhanded zombies with glowing blue eyes, about duty and honor and their obverse as well ... but you'd think I was talking about a Jordan or Goodkind or other Tolkien-imitator. This is the real stuff, the books that go on your short shelf next to Tolkien and Stephen Donaldson. I read once about a trick Eskimos play on wolves by throwing them frozen blubber with a sharpened whalebone doubled over and frozen inside; once in the wolf's belly it thaws and snaps open. This series leaves a similar cold feeling inside for days, as troubling questions about man and society and our obligations snap open and stab at your vitals.	2000-12-20
US	50665692	R2B75FV6USK6P3	0312890575	894581121	Soldiers Live (Black Company)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Thi Kim is coming	The Black Company was staggering and decimated when it fought its way into  another world. Now, after a five-year absence, the Company returns, with  new faces, new tactics, new wizards with new powers, and a new lease on  life. Elmo wouldn't recognize them these days. Even Croaker takes a back  seat to Sleepy's deadly tactics and Tobo's deadly friends as they thunder  back into Taglios to ruin Soulcatcher's day. Soldiers live, heroes die, and  this is a costly episode in terms of brothers of the Company. Croaker  drives his failing body harder and harder as he tries to settle things for  his aging wife and the Daughter of Darkness they never held and still call  'Booboo' to themselves, and finally pulls out his most devious,  inscrutable, and underhanded strategy of all. It's a bloodbath, just like  every other novel of the Black Company, and people die in those. But others  come to the fore, and there's plenty left for more Black Company novels in  the future, especially when you consider the destiny of the one known as  Thi Kim: like White Rose, a child born in war and raised by the Company. A  book closes, another opens. There will be more Annals of the Black  Company...	2000-08-15
US	50665692	R25STYWM24I1U2	0553575260	98461616	A Free Man of Color (Benjamin January, Book 1)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Walk on gilded splinters	Ever wanted to go back in time? Just hop in the time machine and see the past? Read this; you'll be cured. Hambly leads us down a muddy path into New Orleans at the height of the slavery days, and shows it to us in all  its stinking glory through the educated eyes of freeman Benjamin January; a  Paris-educated 'colored' whose surgical training and skill on the piano  mean little to the white inhabitants of the French-speaking city. January  has fled Paris to escape the ghost of his cholera-slain wife, and is a  cultured fellow who gives us a slightly modern viewpoint as he struggles to  fit back into a world in which he is not allowed to look a white in the  eye. Hambly starts with a glossary of the names used to distinguish degrees  of prized white blood: octoroon, griffe, sambo. The rich planters all have  octoroon or quadroon mistresses, who live in houses bought by their  protectors through their mothers' negotiations, and who birth more  octoroons and quadroons for the 'placee' system. The white and colored  balls are held side by side, and the men circulate between wife and  mistress all night. It's not a pretty picture, and January, from his  vantage point as the pianist on the white side, sees it all ... all except  the moment when a colored girl is strangled, and the blame begins to shift  his way. January must solve the crime himself or be blamed for it, and  risking slavery, voodoo, and humiliation along the way, solve it he does.  Every character in this book, from the Prussian swordmaster Mayerling to  the old scarfaced Ewe tribesman Lucius, is trapped in the web of their  unsavory culture. It's a clear indictment of the human race; we should all  be whipped for letting stuff like this go on. Only the outsiders like Ben  and the ridiculous Kaintuck policeman Abishag Shaw have a chance to rise  above the steamy, muck-filled gutters and see a hopeful future. A good  mystery book, too: all the clues are there if you look back. But I think  I'm developing aprejudice against white people after reading it ...	2000-06-06
US	50665692	R2PY80P14LAXIO	0312858787	906123966	Gun, With Occasional Music: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Don't Ask Why	Tough P.I. Conrad Metcalf is having a rough time lately. The instrumental news on the radio hints of bad things coming. It's getting tougher to figure out what his clients want, because they all snort so much  government-supplied Forgettall that they don't know who he is, let alone  what they do for a living. Only Private Inquisitors like Conrad are allowed  to ask any questions at all, in fact. Conrad's got it tough: he needs to  see his old girlfriend about a personal matter, half his customers are  evolved animals, one of his suspects is a brain-evolved, drunken,  sarcastic, three-year-old babyhead, and the gangsters in the back room of  the Fickle Muse have sicked a kangaroo hit man named Joey on him. What kind  of catastrophe could have produced an insane world like this? Why are the  children being turned into babyheads, and why evolve animals to take their  places? Why is everyone upside-down on free dope all the time, why is the  news just sad or happy music, and why do people have appliances as parts of  their names? Why does the government freeze you if your karma drops too  low? And how the heck can you shoot someone with a gun that goes &quot;Dum,  da dum dum&quot; when you draw it? Ah, ah, ah: no questions allowed. Just  sit back and watch this thing unwind. There's a real hard-boiled private  eye in this book, but he's a gorilla. That didn't even surprise me after  the sheep was murdered. Even though justice is a lost cause and human  rights an interesting problem, Metcalf fights on for his client's freedom,  risking his own karma in the process. Lethem himself obviously has karma to  burn.	2000-06-01
US	50665692	R1RS2L2GWO07R8	0385491832	352044771	Motherless Brooklyn	Books	5	8	11	N	N	A Frayed Knot	It's been a week since I read this book, and I still flinch every time I pass a big sign reading BAILEY on my way to work. Luckily, the rest of my symptoms seem to be fading and I think I can get back to something like a  normal life. This is not an option for Lionel Essrog, the shattered hero of  this book: he has Tourette's Syndrome, and he is forced to count, rap,  bark, and curse his way through a deadly minefield of aging mobsters, Zen  Buddhism, and indifference. Lionel's one of the four orphans that wiseguy  Frank Minna recruited out of all motherless Brooklyn to be his helpers; now  Lionel is compelled to unravel the messy case that ended with Frank stabbed  in a dumpster. Hampered by his tendency to introduce himself as 'Vinyl  Bullfrog,' poor Lionel searches for clues, completely confusing a homicide  detective into adding Tourette to his suspect list and woos a pretty girl  while discovering the incompatibility of Zen meditation and violent verbal  expostulations. As he dodges a gigantic kumquat-munching hit man and  wonders what his fellow orphans know that he doesn't, Lionel doggedly  defends the center of his chaotic life: Frank and the other orphan 'Minna  Men,' who accept his tics and serve as his family. And he rises to the  challenge like a true hero, descending into the underworld for information  and slaying his dragons, public and private, avenging his father-figure,  and winning a space for his 'family' to endure. Lethem's got hold of a live  wire here; this is a story that twitches off the pages and demands your  attention. If you pay attention you can also learn about Tourette's Cat and  the connection between Tourette's, The Artist Chronically Known as Prince,  and Don Martin cartoons. There's a mystery here, rolled up in a crime novel  and cross-indexed with a medical case history, and narrated by one of the  most engaging nuts in recent fiction. The Fickle Muse was sitting in  Lethem's lap when he wrote this one.	2000-06-01
US	50665692	R44KP3QHOUZ78	0345319656	745869903	The Time of the Dark (The Darwath Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Afraid of the Dark	A wizard from another world seeking sanctuary for an infant prince is aided by a biker and a female history grad student who leave their boring lives on Earth to join his war against the horrible force known only as The  Dark. They become a warrior and a wizard, just as you'd suppose, except  that the girl becomes a warrior and the biker a wizard's apprentice, and  that's because nothing is ever predictable in a Hambly book. Darwath is a  well-thought-out world with a severe problem; namely the hordes of Dark  creatures coming from under the ground. What are they, and why did they  kill all the wizards they could find? Can Ingold Inglorion find the answer  before the Dark comes for him? Well, there are two more books so you can  probably guess...	2000-05-08
US	50665692	RS0O9FI1FLKYD	0345421892	906833178	Knight of the Demon Queen	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Go to Hell; and then ...	You'll never get what you expect from a Barbara Hambly book. Perhaps this is why her books haven't degenerated into predictable series fiction. This is a case in point, as the continuance of her series seems likely to kill  every character in it, or at least destroy them in other ways. John the  Dragonslayer remains a vivid, honest character caught between his personal  life and the open need of the starving and bandit-plagued Winterlands who  depend upon Lord John to defend them. His mate Jenny is torn between her  need for magic and her desire for a human life, and in the first book  DRAGONSLAYER she found she needed both. DRAGONSHADOW saw Jenny possessed by  a demon, whose addictive magic made her betray everything she loved and  whose defeat left her a scarred, despondent cripple, yearning for the  demon's touch. KNIGHT OF THE DEMON QUEEN drags John and Jenny behind it  screaming into all the Hells that exist or that men can make for each  other. She's rough on her characters, our Barbara. And on the basis of this  book, I hereby promote Ms. Hambly to goddess, since the last thing I  expected was a cyberpunk episode in a 'Dragon' book. I wish it was longer,  but I'm glad I didn't have to wait 2 years for it; evens out in my opinion.  But maybe I just can't resist a world in which heroic deeds tend to be done  by men who wear glasses ...	2000-05-08
US	50665692	RSINJ0U7WAMBD	0881847267	214080434	The Dark Light Years	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Smells Like Intelligent Life	If mankind met an alien race which built no structures and wallowed in mud, would we understand their intelligence? If we found they communicated by tasting the excretions of others in the mud wallow, would we be ready to  communicate? Think so? A cautionary fable by SF great Brian Aldiss displays  a lot less trust in mankind's basic decency towards less developed  civilzations.	2000-03-29
US	50665692	RHHFIYBBVD52	0571091628	379592078	Barefoot in the Head	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Multi-faceted Reality	Yesterday is a dream; today and tomorrow have been shattered like mirrors reflecting endless distorted visions. Anything might be possible. This is because the world has been well-drenched with psychedelic nerve gas, and it  never wears off. Civilization has almost crumbled, and mankind stumbles  through its daily grind by force of habit. Out of the wreckage of Europe  comes Colin Charteris, self-named and losing his grip on reality by inches,  driven by a sense of destiny to drive his red Banshee across the  deteriorating roads of Europe, searching for meaning in England. But in  England he is hailed as a messiah for the message he brings, of uncertainty  celebrated, of open-endedness and freedom, and his idea of the new humanity  as Man the Driver, choosing his destiny or doom at high speed. A wild  motorcade across Europe ensues, and something worse than mere anarchy is  loosed upon the dazed world. Aldiss endows his work with a feel of gritty  realism, despite the fact that it reads like a Stephen King novel  transcribed by James Joyce. Will mankind survive? Will Charteris walk on  water and hang on a cross? Was that dog really wearing a tie? Maybe the  answer is yes, or no, or maybe; or perhaps all of those at once. There's an  incredible feeling of impending doom in this book; all the characters  inhabit their own private worlds, unsure if they see the same thing the  others see. I finished it, scratched my head, and began to re-read it; and  found it almost a different book. Multi-faceted, multi-valued, and filled  with poetry and blazing worldplay; BAREFOOT IN THE HEAD is a difficult but  rewarding read from a grandmaster of reality.	2000-03-29
US	50665692	R3PKJFICZC72E0	0380014033	772010642	Lord of Light	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Binder of Demons	On a far planet in the future, mankind has fallen into its old ways. Long ago, the officers of the spacecraft STAR OF INDIA stranded their colonists with no technology, then returned in a century to rule their descendants as  the gods of the Hindu pantheon. Not only can they switch to new bodies by a  technological trick, but after the first century they begin to develop  godlike mental powers. Once they were all saved by the power of Sam, who  could bind the demonic energy creatures native to the planet; today they  spurn Lord Siddartha, as he is known, and plot to harm him, and so begins  Sam's war against Heaven; just as the fit hits the Shan. Sam is angry with  the way the world is run, and prepares his most potent weapon: philosophy.  You thought philosophy was the stuff of dry tomes? Watch Sam's new buddhism  attack the roots of this pseudo-Hinduism like weed killer. Even though the  goddess of destruction Kali was once his wife, Sam fights a war to the  death...and beyond, and then even further than that, against beings who  hurl lightning and fire, who breathe dreams and dance emotions, who are  nearly the gods they imagine themselves to be. But not even the Buddha was  above Death, and Sam must play a deadly game with Dharma himself until the  world is convulsed with war. The world's last Christian is no help either;  he's become a satanic figure leading an army of mindless zombies. Gods,  goddesses, men, apes, and demons contend in a book so well-considered it's  nearly poetry. As original in its way as Lord of the Rings, it will always  be considered one of Roger Zelazny's finest works.	2000-03-29
US	50665692	REPP4HM1810XT	1856195686	610232140	At the Caligula Hotel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Stay at the best hotels	Brian Aldiss has been turning heads since the sixties with his novels, science fiction, and criticism. His work in NEW WORLDS magazine helped jump-start the New Wave of SF, and not the least of that work was his  poetry. Here's a collection much richer and stranger than the usual  chapbook, and as surely as a musk ox falls in love with a refrigerator or a  book falls in love with its reader, you will at least feel a strange  attraction to this audacious volume. Included are gems like &quot;The Cat  Improvement Company,&quot; unwinding the helix of Felix's genes for his own  good, and the title piece, which ponders the eternal question 'If music be  the food of love, should we order in?' Aldiss' agile mind leaps across dark   light-years to flirt with an incompatible &quot;Femalien,&quot; soars  across time to visit Mary Shelley, and rearranges headlines into poetry,  leaving plenty of room for small gems and larger pieces. Brian W. Aldiss is  the critic responsible for pointing out that FRANKENSTEIN was the first  science fiction novel, and also the author of FRANKENSTEIN UNBOUND; no  surprise that he pays several visits to Mary Shelley, rearranging her own  words to make a poem and giving both Victor Frankenstein and his creation  narrative voices. Aldiss ends with his &quot;Alphabet Ameliorating  Hope,&quot; a futuristic tale in verse. Once you've got this book open, it  could rain cucumbers for all you'd care.	2000-03-29
US	50665692	RNOY9730VE7Q1	0966067673	193934777	Bruno the Bandit (Bruno the Bandit	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Somewhere Between Lankhmar and Lichtenberg	Wavering on the borders of reality and ridiculousness is the little  kingdom of Rothland, which has somehow managed to keep its magic while  adopting modern conveniences like TV and newspapers; so that if you're  publicly pilloried it could be front-page news. Life would be idyllic  (unless you were hexed or something) if not for the presence of the mighty  Bruno the Bandit and his sidekick, Fiona the micro-dragon. In a world where  Lords of Evil can become trapped in a vacuum cleaner and Great Cthulhu give  a reference for a bartender, Bruno is a force for good...er, well compared  to some...well, he's kinda nice to his mom. Fans of Terry Pratchett will  recognize his insidious influence; fans of Robert Jordan better keep  smiling. It's well-drawn, too, and the ridiculous plot twists could only  come from the mind of a well-read, well-informed, and well-twisted  cartoonist.	2000-03-16
US	50665692	R3KMRPAQAKMYT7	0380800985	509464521	Sir Stalwart (Book One of the King's Daggers)	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Short and Sharp	It's dedicated to Anne McCaffrey, and why not? This book does for Duncan's 'King's Blades' series what the Harper Hall trilogy did for her Pern series: offers a portal for the younger reader to enter without  condescending to the older reader. The language is simpler, which lends a  sense of urgency to the narrative, and the moral choices are clear-cut. At  the time of the Monster War, Candidate Stalwart (known as Wart to his  friends) becomes the King's secret agent against a magical plot where a  magically-bound Blade would be detected. With hastily-defrocked White  Sister Emerald and a load of stinking garlic, he rushes along his mission,  tipping his hat to McCaffrey and T.H. White along the way. Keep in mind  that the Blades books are darker and not meant for Harry Potter fans.  Duncan rewards older readers with a closer look at the weird magic of this  world, and a closer look at the White Sisters and their magic-sniffing  talent. The sisters see everyone as a blend of the four real elements  (earth, air, fire, and water) and of the virtual elements (death, love,  time, and chance): one real, one virtual, so they characterize someone as a  fire-death person, or an air-chance person. Duncan himself? All eight  elements contend in his books, but somehow love always balances the  equation.	2000-03-14
US	50665692	R14NSYTPPHMHG9	0441005667	204362253	Forever Peace	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Soldierboy, Go Home	Julian Class does battle every day...by proxy, while his body sits safely in a capsule, operating a huge robot 'soldierboy' by remote control as an agent of his government's foreign policy. He hates it, too, but the draft is on and his number came up. He has other problems as well: in his  civilian life he's part of a team of scientists who are beginning to  suspect that their experiment could start a new Big Bang...right on Earth.  This sounds great to a group of religious fanatics. Unless humanity can  nerve itself to change into something less aggressive, it will destroy  itself. Is this SF, or just cold logical reasoning? Can Man change, and  should it? Why can't we all just get along? Trust Haldeman to ask  disturbing questions and you won't be disappointed.	2000-03-07
US	50665692	R19SE40R08JGOY	0441006973	332040900	Forever Free	Books	5	6	8	N	N	To stop war, make men gods	The Forever War didn't last forever. Now everyone who survived is a living fossil, building a dispirited human colony on the frozen and dull god-forsaken world known as Middle Finger as an alternative to joining the multi-brained group mind called Man which inhabits every human being on  Earth. William Mandella and his wife Marygay find that their midlife crisis  is going to be as unique as their youth, as fish-farming icy waters palls  and the colony seems more and more like a cage of lab rats. Their children  are flirting with joining Man's collective mind, and Man himself is  intrusive and superior. Time for a road trip in a fast machine, and one  more big time loop for the veterans seems in order; a leap into the future  when Man is either improved or gone altogether. Man thinks it's a good  idea, but the Tauran group-mind recoils in horror from such a violation of  physics. The trip is made anyway, but ends disastrously. The entire fabric  of the universe seems to be disintegrating as the veterans search an empty  world for clues. Haldeman is always concerned with human nature: why do we  fight? why do we live in peace? The very kind of group-understanding and  mind-sharing that is mankind's hope at the end of _Forever Peace_ is  depicted as a dead-end here in the identical 'zombies' of Man. Will the  things that make us human destroy us in the end? Can we change? SHOULD we  change? Perhaps some Deus Ex Machina will drop in on a string and tell us  one day, or maybe we'll figure it out by reading Haldeman.	2000-02-28
US	50665692	R3SH88UNSNRB48	0345348672	150650131	The Power That Preserves (The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant the Unbeliever, Book 3)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Joy is in the ears that hear	Once again, tortured antihero Thomas Covenant is drawn to the magical Land, kicking and screaming all the way. Trapped in his wish-fulfilment hallucination, poor Tom confronts the end result of his inability to act: without his wild magic, the Land has become a desolate wasteland, where the  survivors' only hope is the Unbeliever's ring. Covenant's inability to take  sides and believe has brought the Land itself to a leper's desperate state,  miserably awaiting death. There is almost nothing left to fight for, and  the lesson of Hile Troy's whole-hearted acceptance of the Land's need is  plain. Even the Giant Saltheart Foamfollower has become a killer, haplessly  treading the path of despite Lord Foul has decreed. Happy endings don't  happen to lepers; they also have nothing left to lose. Only a twisted and  corroded key could unlock this puzzle, and the racked body and mind of  Thomas Covenant has been forged into such a key by the merciless author.  Would you die to save your dreams? Be true; you need not fail.	2000-02-24
US	50665692	R219MUOPR5FL6L	0345348656	150650131	Lord Foul's Bane (The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant the Unbeliever, Book 1)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Unbeliever in a doomed paradise	If you lost everything but your life, what would it take to give meaning to your existence...or break you completely? Thomas Covenant finds himself transported to a world of heart-breaking beauty and strangeness, where his  hurts are eased and the white gold ring which is all that remains of his  marriage holds the magic to save the world from Lord Foul's Bane. Beauty  and terror; the promise of love and acceptance and a place of honor in a  world more vivid and real than Earth. It can't be real. It's too good to be  true. Nerves don't regenerate, as Covenant knows only too well: he is a  leper, and his wife has taken their son and fled from him, just as everyone  he meets recoils in horror. His last memory is of a car running him down,  and he suspects that his wretched body is dying while his mind wanders this  fantasy world. As images of wonder and horror assault his mind, he fights  to free himself from the fantasy...or is it reality? Do you have a moral  responsibility to a figment of your mind? Is he a fool, a criminal, or a  good man pushed beyond the breaking point? Heroic fantasy has never been  the same since Donaldson began holding up his mirror to the genre.	2000-02-24
US	50665692	R2QJQ2QRQCUBTS	0345348664	150650131	The Illearth War: The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant the Unbeliever, Book Two	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Into the woods...	Thomas Covenant is crumbling inside under the stress of tortures no human can withstand. Did he just return from a fantasy world in which he saved the day by using the magic power hidden in his wedding ring, or has the leprosy which has destroyed him as a man and barred him from society driven  him mad? A second trip to the magical Land doesn't help his mental state at  all, especially when he meets fellow Earthman Hile Troy, to whom the Land  has given sight for his blinded eyes and employment for his military  genius. Troy cannot understand how Covenant can ignore the Land's need, but  the Lords, masters of wood and stone lore as well as the secrets of war and  Earthpower, understand Covenant's fear of power and committment. As Troy  commands the Land's army, Covenant and the High Lord Elena search for a  secret power locked away an age ago as too dangerous, while Covenant still  insists he is trapped in a hallucination. And what if he is? Even in a  dream, should you try to do the right thing?	2000-02-24
US	50665692	R1X0F8YXMX0MHR	0812508424	990472454	Shadows Linger: A Novel of the Black Company (The Second Chronicle of The Black Company)	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Life in a Dead City	Marron Shed is up against the wall. Another hard winter is coming, and the moneylenders are after his ramshackle inn, the Iron Lily. Firewood is hard to come by and already vagrants are freezing on the unfriendly streets of Juniper. Marron is a coward and a sneak, but he does have his aged mother  to consider, who will die without a roof over her head. Luckily the  loansharks and torpedoes are afraid of his scary tenant Raven, who can eat  them for breakfast. So when Raven cuts Shed in on his sideline of selling  bodies to the evil creatures in the Black Castle above the town, he really  has no choice. But as the Black Castle grows with each twitching corpse, it  draws attention from the Lady in the faraway city of Charm, who sends a  force to destroy it...a force consisting of her trusted Black Company of  mercenaries. The last people in the world Raven and his little girl Darling  want to see. Can Shed - and Raven - undo the harm they've caused before  Juniper crashes down on their heads? Will the Black Company be forced once  again into actions they despise? Glen Cook always goes for the gut-punch  and sneak attack - watch out for his left!	2000-02-24
US	50665692	R33OUE0S5TY926	0812521390	825946760	The Black Company (Chronicles of The Black Company #1)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Taken by the Taken	The Black Company is an ancient and cynical mercenary organization, a sworn brotherhood whose origins are lost in antiquity. Double-crossing their double-crossing employer, they sign on with a mysterious lord only to find that the ugly past has risen with a vengeance. In centuries past the  evil Dominator and his nameless Lady ruled the land, enslaving his  mightiest enemies as the Ten Who Were Taken, until the mighty general known  as the White Rose nailed them living into their graves behind a barrier of  spells. Now the Lady has risen with the Taken, leaving the Dominator raging  in his grave...and the Black Company has just signed a contract with the  Taken Soulcatcher, who is a warm puppy beside the other grave-rotten Taken,  like Moonbiter, Nightcrawler, or the Hanged Man (or The Limper, who covers  his missing lip with a leather mask). The Black Company has the stuff to  stand beside the darkest villains, but as they find themselves being  well-rewarded for their contribution to the Lady's conquest of the world   their greatest hope is to escape beyond her reach. For the prophecy says  the White Rose will be reborn to face her enemies again, and the Black  Company know this is true. As their own wizards struggle to keep pace with  the Taken and their Captain matches wits with centuries-old monsters,  Company Annalist and Physician Croaker finds he has his own problems: his  interest in the beautiful Lady has come to her attention, and she wants to  see him personally. In a world in which women lead armies as often as men  and even cities use pseudonyms to avoid magic, the Black Company tries to  avoid becoming part of the evil that ensnares them...and fails, inch by  inch.	2000-02-24
US	50665692	R3RJIFZ4OFCKNU	0152008691	388981441	The Forgotten Beasts of Eld	Books	5	68	68	N	N	Enchantress on the Mountain	For many years there has been a wizard in residence atop Eld Mountain, living in peaceful contemplation with a group of magical heraldic animals. The last one called a reluctant princess to him with a spell, just as he called the animals, and before she died of loneliness and sorrow she bore a  daughter. This daughter, named Sybel, becomes the wizard-in-residence,  spending her long days conversing with the wise Beasts and never missing  the company of humans. One day a handsome prince brings her a child; her  nephew, in danger from political maneuvering. Sybel comes to love little  Tam, but as he grows he draws her into the world that she has always  ignored. There is danger there; Sybel is lovely and powerful and men covet  both attributes. She loves Tam enough to release him to his destiny as  Prince Tamlorn; in Coren she finds not only love but acceptance into a  family. But across her new life falls the shadow of hate and revenge. Sybel  finds no amount of power can spare you from your own humanity. As you might  suspect, many readers have treasured copies of this book for years, and I  suspect Stephen R. Donaldson of being one of them. Could WHITE GOLD WIELDER  or DAUGHTER OF REGALS have existed without this book? It's a seminal work,  a book of wonder that has inspired and taught all its readers. On one  level, a fairy tale; beneath the surface, a story of choices and ethics. If  you turned your eye inward, would you like what you saw inside your mind?  Even atop the loneliest mountain in the farthest land, your own humanity  will seek you out one day and demand an accounting.	2000-01-07
US	50665692	R32EL8DKAU5ZQ5	0345348656	150650131	Lord Foul's Bane (The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant the Unbeliever, Book 1)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Be True; You Need Not Fail	Thomas Covenant has been destroyed by fate. Nevertheless, he continues to live. Stripped of his family, health, career, and identity by the leprosy which has made him a figure of fear, Covenant doggedly hangs on to his  miserable life, inspecting his numb extremities for damage as he gropes  blindly for some human contact. &quot;Be true,&quot; a mysterious old  beggar tells him. &quot;You need not fail.&quot; Then he is in a wonderful  never-never land, heartbreakingly beautiful and achingly described, where a  pretty young girl cures his leprosy with a handful of mud and everyone  hails him as the reincarnation of their ancient hero Berek, come back to  save them with his white gold wedding ring, which is a talisman of power in  the Land. So far, standard wish-fulfillment fantasy, and Tom's troubles are  over, right? Wrong. Covenant is too damaged, too close to death, to be  brought back so easily. He knows this is a hallucination (think it's not?  read carefully) and is frantic to escape. Fate drags what's left of him  across a landscape of incredible beauty and wonder, drawn from the mind of  a great author, and forces him to become involved, then throws him back to  his awful leper's life on Earth. There's never been anything like this book  and the two sequels; it made publishing history and set a new standard for  fantasy writing. Too much has been made of the author's debt to Tolkien;  every fantasy writer owes JRR a huge debt that can't be repaid, except in  the way Donaldson does it here: a huge, rich fantasy that doesn't rely on  elves, trolls and hobbits to make it run, with a wonderful creation myth  and laughing, large-souled Giants. There's nothing you can validly compare  this to; it's a true original.	2000-01-07
US	50665692	RQUSOCDRS8BLV	0441005969	950318092	Riddle-Master	Books	5	17	18	N	N	&quot;Answer the unanswered question.&quot;	For centuries the ghost of King Peven has haunted his decaying castle, playing a deadly riddle-game with visitors: his crown against their lives. He has always won. Now someone has taken his crown, ignorant of the fact  that with it goes the hand of Raederle, the second most beautiful women in  the known world. The crown has been won by Morgon, Prince of tiny,  agricultural Hed, and it's under his bed while he, his brother and sister,  and Snogg Nutt the pigherder try to decide what to do with it. Suddenly  riddles are gathering like storm clouds over a world scoured centuries ago  by the War of the Earthmasters, powerful magical beings who once ruled,  then suddenly fled the world. Where did they go? Who were they? Who are the  powerful and hostile men from under the sea, and why have they suddenly  come after Morgon? Most important of all, why does Morgon have three stars  birthmarked on his forehead? Luckily, he's one of the Riddle-Masters and  has a chance of finding the answer. Meanwhile Raederle, no shrinking  violet, calls upon the powers that she is heir to through her father the  King of An, as the ancient dead of An begin to rise and pursue their  ancient wars, and strikes a desperate bargain with the dead to safeguard  Morgon. Who is the harper named Deth? Where did the wizards go? Why doesn't  the High One, source of authority and land-rule, act in some way? And who  will fix the leak in poor Snogg Nutt's roof? Even if you turned into a tree  and thought about it all winter you'd never figure it out. Secrets as deep  as the root of a mountain, as wild as a pack of wolves, as chaotic as the  pounding sea: solve them or the world plunges into horror.	1999-12-31
US	50665692	R8IGPOC3VATNC	0679401385	639054554	Mr. X	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Cthulhu lives!	Whoa, what have we here? Another expedition with Peter Straub through the tiny sidestreets and byways of a vivid, imaginary town, in pursuit of something evil and strange. In these days when every two-bit serial killer  thinks he, she, or it is the Antichrist, it's downright refreshing to find  one who is the emissary of Lovecraft's Elder Gods. Mr. X has a problem,  though: long ago he sired a son, whose destiny is to destroy him unless he  can be killed in time. Little Ned Dunstan, meeting his relatives as an  adult, realizes that psychic powers and kleptomania run in his family. On  each birthday he is tormented by visions of the awful Mr. X, killing as he  searches for his son. Is the shadowy Other who stalks Ned his father, or  something else entirely? In real life answers seldom come neatly wrapped,  and Straub can be quite realistic (for a guy who names characters things  like 'Piney Woods' and 'Minor Keyes'). It's not all a stroll in the park  for poor Mr. X either. He has his doubts, his dark nights of the soul: what  if there IS no Cthulhu? Maybe Lovecraft was just a writer. Ned must try to  understand the weird powers that are his family heritage if he is to  survive having them turned aganst him. Like Edgerton, the book is dark,  complicated, twisty and winding, and filled with surprising secrets. It's a  good book; more so if you've read enough Lovecraft to compare the Dunstans  with the Whateleys. Straub's often compared to Stephen King because of  their collaboration, but I find him darker and less hopeful than King.	1999-12-29
US	50665692	R35YOMCEDBF5IE	0671578278	784554812	A Civil Campaign: A Comedy of Biology and Manners	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Love and Bug Butter on Barrayar	Miles Vorkosigan has got to be one of the most brilliant characters ever unleashed on the unsuspecting reading public. Dwarfed before birth by an assassination attempt upon his pregnant mother, Miles has every reason to  shun public life and duty; instead he drives his crippled body mercilessly  through a career as a military secret agent. Medically discharged before  thirty due to seizures, Miles has become a special Auditor for his cousin  the Emperor, prying into suspicious cases and hunting trouble. This brought  him into the life of lovely Vor widow Ekaterina in the last book, KOMARR.  Miles at war is an unstoppable force, or almost. Miles in love is a  different story. Perhaps someone should have advised him that laying siege  to a woman's heart is only a figure of speech? Bujold is always amusing,  but seldom comical; thus it slipped up on me. Add in the continuing saga of  Miles' clone Mark, always on the lookout for a money-making scheme, and his  bioengineered butter bugs, which make a sort of yogurt instead of honey.  Mark's in love, too, and her parents aren't thrilled. Add in Lady Donna's  scheme to inherit her brother's title and you have the guest list for a  dinner party of apocalyptic proportions. I laughed like hell, but there's a  serious side to this foolishness: Miles really loves the girl. If he blows  this one it's going to be a long lonely life. Mark's no better off with his  dilemma, since few women can really relate to his dwarfed body and unstable  mind. And fans of Ivan Vorpatril will find him in top form, casually  drifting along ogling the women and ducking responsibility. Tangled  political maneuvering, strong characters, and a complicated emotional  situation; just what I expected from Bujold, who also gives us men a look  at how the fair sex see our foibles. Lucky Miles and Mark; mother Cordelia  is still a force to be reckoned with in this universe, and after the bug  butter is all mopped up and everyone's had their share of humiliation  there's still a good chance of a happy ending. Not many authors can keep a  character like Miles alive and growing through this many sequels; Bujold's  done a great job of making him plausible, one broken bone at the time.	1999-12-29
US	50665692	R1BTTM0U83JCI3	0380809060	394892878	The Great Book of Amber: The Complete Amber Chronicles, 1-10 (Chronicles of Amber)	Books	5	49	53	N	N	A walk in the Shadows	This book is your passport to the real world, of which all others are reality-warped Shadows. From the moment strong, handsome Corwin awakens in a hospital, amnesic and possessed of strange powers, the plot kicks into  high gear. On pure instinct and bluff he bulls his way into a wild  hell-ride towards the ultimate reality, regaining his name and pride along  the way. In Amber, the capitol of the real world, Corwin's brother Eric  reigns uneasily, wondering when Corwin will return for revenge. Corwin  falls easily into his brothers' eternal and unchanging round of wars and  plots, but with a difference: years on the Shadow called Earth have taught  him humility and humanity, and tempered his pride with wisdom. After  centuries of youth he is becoming a man at last and fit to rule, but can  anyone without the lost secrets of King Oberon or his wizard Dworkin keep  the throne against the dark forces of Chaos? Corwin must unite his kingdom  and conquer his own internal chaos in order to survive, and possibly to  save the universe. The second series follows Corwin's son Merlin, whose  approach to magic is completely different from Corwin's due to his  upbringing in the Courts of Chaos. Merlin must find his father and  understand what lies beneath reality in order to save Amber and Chaos  alike. The books are filled with strange beauty and eerie magic, as playing  cards talk and prisoners escape into pictures, and with amazing ideas and  places, cities in the sky and undersea. This is vintage Zelazny, and some  of the best; almost impossible to describe. Anyone who's never read these  books is in for a treat, and for those who have it's a great chance to get  them all together and read them again. It's a long hellride to the brink of  Chaos. Better get started soon.	1999-12-13
US	50665692	R3M2615DRH4NXJ	0553108034	153810577	A Clash of Kings (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Song of Death and Beauty	George R.R. Martin is the last person I would ever have suspected of a secet desire to write heroic fantasy. Perhaps that's why his Song of Ice and Fire is so unexpectedly great. Martin, known better for his hard sf, draws together threads from dozens of books, transforming them as he goes:  I've noticed his hat tipped to Tad Williams, Robert Jordan, Poul Anderson,  Lois McMaster Bujold and Dave Duncan as well as Feist and Eddings and the  whole pantheon of fantasy writers. This is a huge work, packed with  characters, and written in a realistic, uncompromising style. Feudalism,  with all its glory, honor, and starving peasants, has lasted for a  millenium on this world; perhaps due to the weak grip of religion, or  perhaps because of the decade-long winters caused by the wobbling axis of  the planet. In the longest winters, the eerie dwellers in the frozen north  can extend their sway into the lands of men, slowed only by the exiles of  the Night's Watch who guard against the dark powers. It's all about honor  and might of arms: you can gain a kingdom by force, but can you hold it  without the consent of the governed? Does a lord deserve fealty if he rules  unjustly? There are no clear-cut heroes in this book, and no simple moral  choices. The evil and the less-evil rule, and only those able to play the  game of thrones survive; and as the humans struggle for advantage in the  warm southern kingdoms, the brutal wolf-winter gathers and inhuman  creatures with glowing blue eyes mass to crush the warmblooded intruders  forever. Across the sea, little Princess Dany and her dragons may be  mankind's only hope. Caught between the grinding armies and maneuvering  lords, a host of interesting characters rise and fall, advance and retreat,  weep and rejoice. Fire and Ice? Love and Hate? All the extremes are here.  The White Walkers in the north can match humanity hate for hate, sword for  sword, strength for strength. Winter is coming, and only honor and love can  burn hotenough to turn it back.	1999-12-10
US	50665692	R6B9EOKWY8FUX	0380973332	302223171	Lord Demon	Books	5	8	12	N	N	World in a bottle: Last call	What a mix of joy and tears this bottle contains! The joy of a new Zelazny book; the pain of knowing there won't be another. It doesn't seem that Lindskold has added a word, yet somehow you can feel an undercurrent of  sorrow that doesn't quite fit the mood of this book as it fit the  Death-haunted DONNERJACK. That made the funny parts even more welcome. Like  some of the demons within it is a sketch of what could have been, but a  still a vital entity in itself. This is the last bottle of an old and rare  vintage, slightly diluted with a sparkling new springwine but undeniably  the real stuff. Sip it slowly.	1999-12-03
US	50665692	R14R2O0SAIXFXQ	0380974614	778919555	Lord of the Fire Lands:: A Tale of the King's Blades	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Blades still sharp!	LORD OF THE FIRE LANDS is another piece in the puzzle of Dave Duncan's novels of the King's Blades. The new Blades are as sharp as the old; King Ambrose is at his villainous/heroic best, and another piece of the  mysterious world is revealed. The redhaired, viking-like Baels are  well-thought-out, and their thralls are a nasty, scary idea. But, er, where  have I heard this plot before? An indecisive prince whose uncle has designs  on his father's throne and wife? Alas, Sir Yorick. Something's rotten in  Baelmark. And only half a witch; what economy! Duncan's use of the  Anglo-saxon 'eth' and 'thorn' characters adds depth to the Baelish society,  and the thralls add a nightmarish edge. The ending contradicts that of  GILDED CHAIN, which is why I say it's a puzzle. More puzzle pieces, please,  Mr. Duncan. Keep 'em coming. You're on a roll!	1999-12-01
