US	50664978	RKA7ZQAOXA7QM	1576753360	365119949	Shortchanged: Life and Debt in the Fringe Economy	Books	5	23	27	N	N	Best source for understanding the American consumer economy	In 1996 the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act transformed welfare to workfare, and the lives of the poor were radically altered. In 2001 Barbara Ehrenreich (Nickel and Dimed) showed us the health and housing woes of the working poor, concluding, among other things, that minimum wages must rise. Last year David Shipler (The Working Poor) expanded Ehrenreich's experience, concluding: <br /> <br />\\". . . [W]orking poverty is a constellation of difficulties that magnify one another: not just low wages but also low education, not just dead-in jobs but also limited abilities, not just insufficient savings but also unwise spending, not just poor housing but also poor parenting, not just the lack of health insurance but also the lack of healthy households\\" (p. 285). <br /> <br />In this volume Howard Karger makes an amazing contribution to our understanding of the working poor. He moves beyond Ehrenreich's simple solution (give the poor more money and they will not be poor), and he avoids the scent of victim-blaming that clings to Shipler's work despite his sensitivity and compassion. Instead, Karger analyzes the alternative financial services sector, or fringe economy, and shows how it systematically stalks the poor, working poor, and vulnerable middle class.  <br /> <br />What is the fringe economy? Karger describes it as \\"corporate and business practices that have a predatory relationship with the poor by charging excessive interest rates or fees, or exorbitant prices for goods or services\\" (p. x). Laying aside the obvious counter-argument that high risk deserves high rates of return, who are the primary customers for the fringe economy? Karger notes that it is the 28% of American adults without a bank account, the 40 million Americans without health insurance, the 33.1 million foreign born residents, especially the undocumented segment, and the high debt, low asset segment of the middle class.  <br /> <br />Does high risk justify high ratesof return? Secured credit cards assume no risk, yet charge high origination fees, high monthly service fees, and high interest rates. Pawnshops rarely loan up to 50% of the value of surrendered collateral with interest charges as high as 24% for a single month. Payday loans are secured by check or electronic debit with the debtor liable for criminal charges for non-payment and earn interest equivalent to 800% a year.  In 2002 tax preparation services, refund loans, and check cashing fees related to government-backed Earned Income Tax Credits cost the working poor $1.31 billion. Rent-to-own stores routinely price furniture and electronics at more than double the prevailing purchase price. Independent used car lots do the same.  <br /> <br />The sad fact is that the fringe economy assumes almost no risk. Because the clientele does not have access to mainstream sources of credit, the fringe economy is able to set prices at will, and does. Whether one is looking at the credit card industry, used car sales, housing, telecommunications, or even the get-out-of-debt industry, the story is the same. Almost no one is barred from access, but for those without good credit, the costs just continue to escalate. <br /> <br />I have been a certified public accountant for over 20 years, but I learned a lot by reading this book. I can think of no better source of information on how our American consumer economy actually operates. I became more enthusiastic about the book with each chapter I read, and you will, too. Reading it, however, might entail a bit of risk. It is likely to change your own consumption patterns, and it is likely to result in the purchase of multiple copies, especially if you have people close to you that you would like to help! <br />	2005-09-28
US	50664978	R7Y7L2J9T2RRT	080773750X	807697433	The Book of Learning and Forgetting	Books	4	26	29	N	N	Quite valuable despite a bit of tilting at windmills	Smith, a cognitive psychologist, presents an informal interpretation of two disparate perspectives on human learning. On one extreme he presents the \\"classical view\\" in which learning is the natural, implicit, and unconscious byproduct of social contexts. On the other extreme he presents the \\"official theory\\" of learning that assumes learning is the result of effort, structure, repetition, and discipline. <br />This type of dichotomizing, while quite useful in highlighting the distinctions Smith is making, does tend to oversimplify the issues. In this case, he demonizes the official theory while divinizing the classical view. As a result, his tone of voice is a bit extreme, his conclusions faulty, and his suggestions for educational reform unrealistic.<br />Then why give this slim volume a four star rating? Educators need to be continually reminded, as they are here, that learning is not about recall of facts, but about the restructuring of the students' long-term memory. Long-term memory is arranged semantically. This means that new concepts must build on old ones in some kind of meaningful way. The catch for the educator is that the student is the one who gets to decide what is meaningful. <br />Education is not about recitation of facts, completion of tests, or skill development. Education is about connecting the student to meaningful content in a way that builds on the innate capacity to learn. It is not taught until the student owns it. Because Smith will settle for nothing less than this, I recommend the book.	2004-05-27
US	50664978	R3NAI873A2QA3S	0805071342	225067813	The Lady Tasting Tea: How Statistics Revolutionized Science in the Twentieth Century	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Noble effort, and entertaining.	It should come as no surprise to any reader that a 300 page collection of anecdotes might fall a bit short in realizing the implied goal in Salsburg's subtitle. He attempts to explain the paradigmatic shift in science from a Newtonian determinism to a probabilistic worldview by focusing on the statisticians themselves. The reader is often left with a desire for more - either more explanation of the paradigm shift or more anecdotes.<br />Nonetheless, I found this volume entertaining. I was fascinated by the newness in this field. Certainly nothing in my education led me to believe that virtually every aspect of social science research and statistical analysis is a 20th century invention. Who would have thought that the essence of 21st century social science research would be so well-anchored in agricultural studies and, perhaps most importantly, in the quality control efforts by master brewers at Guinness?<br />Salsburg intends to write to a non-statistical audience in language that can be understood without mathematic symbols. In this he is only partly successful. He does avoid technical symbols and most technical jargon, but in doing so he is often too vague to make his point clear. Even with three years of graduate statistics (from a social science perspective), I often found myself unsure of his explanations. <br />In the final analysis, Salsburg's description of the \\"statistical revolution\\" in science is really more of a sketch than a portrait. The significances of a shift from certainty to probability cannot be easily explained, but I will give him credit for trying to do so. That he is able to deal with this shift without explicitly commenting on the implications of this shift for religion, values, meaning, and justice is perhaps one of this book's major strengths. <br />Unfortunately, Salsburg concludes with a critique of the statistical revolution that may weaken the impact of his stories. Those desperately holding onto a Newtonian worldview could use this critique to discount 20th century science, especially social science. If, as Salsburg suggests, we are on the cusp of another paradigm shift, any post-statistical revolution is unlikely to be advanced by those continuing to resist the statistical one.	2004-05-25
US	50664978	R2H11XM37Z0KME	0415173159	271573892	Hayek on Liberty, 3rd Edition	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Definitely worth more than a single read	The shear volume of work completed by Hayek over a publishing career that marked more than fifty years makes it quite difficult to grasp the interlocking system of ideas he advocated. Gray has done an exceptional job of synthesizing this work. He presents the philosophical roots of Hayek's thought, the unique 20th century context in which Hayek's ideas competed with others, and a magnificent critique that anyone interested in Hayek should study.<br />Essentially, Gray reduces Hayek's contribution to that of a critic of socialism. Hayek's assertion that socialized central planning was an \\"epistemological impossibility,\\" while historically evident, provides an inadequate justification for the 19th century form of capitalism Hayek advocated. The post-communist 21st century must deal with competing capitalisms, not rigid centrally planned economies, and Gray considers Hayek inadequate on this score. <br />Gray believes that Hayek missed an essential aspect of free market capitalism, that is, the power of progress. Free markets demand change, even change for change's sake, and the metaphor of a \\"spontaneous social order\\" arising in some sort of social evolution is not adequate to provide support for the traditional values and institutions for which Hayek had regard. Personal autonomy will always present a danger to social cohesion. In Gray's view, the free market advocated by Hayek prefers the former to the latter. <br />To Gray this weakness in Hayek's thought is fatal, and I tend to agree.	2004-05-18
US	50664978	R1DA4LA5BPCFO	1403960380	961902481	Hayek's Journey: The Mind of Friedrich Hayek	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A valuable thematic supplement	In this readable volume, Ebenstein offers an overview of Hayek's thought organized thematically rather than chronologically. It is meant as a companion volume to Ebenstein's biography of Hayek, but I read it as a supplement to Caldwell's intellectual biography, Hayek's Challenge. <br />Being only modestly acquainted with 20th century history, and even less so on economic and political theories, I strongly endorse reading a historical account of Hayek prior to considering this thematic presentation. Hayek was a man of his time, passionately contending with political ideologies and economic centralization that he felt threatened individual liberties. In my view, a historical approach can more aptly express the interplay of social, cultural, and personal influences that shaped Hayek's life and thought.<br />Be that as it may, Ebenstein has done a fine job in this book. Each chapter is devoted to a specific idea of, or a major influence on, Hayek. Foundational ideas incorporated into Hayek's thought are discussed (Darwinianism, German historicism, Austrian school economics) as are significant works that denoted major changes in his thought. Individual chapters deal with Mises, Keynes, Friedman and Popper, and another contrasts Hayek's thought with Marx, Mill, and Freud. Hayek's major economic thought is address in chapters devoted to both his early years and his later work. <br />I recommend this book primarily as a ready and current reference for the ongoing debates and interpretations of Hayek. Ebenstein's Bibliographical Essay on the collected works of Hayek may be an essential source for those studying this man.	2004-05-17
US	50664978	RK8PFPJ46772Y	0226091910	298676760	Hayek's Challenge: An Intellectual Biography of F.A. Hayek	Books	5	51	53	N	N	Amazing bio of an amazing thinker!	Tasked with the need to understand a contemporary, conservative thinker in a doctoral course on social justice, I was enriched by the professor's suggestion that I focus on Hayek. In due course I came upon this book by Caldwell. I wish to echo the earlier reviewers praise - this book is everything an intellectual history should be. The reader will become intimately familiar with the historical antecedents to Hayek, the academic, cultural, and historical milieu in which he worked, and the likely future his ideas will have.<br />I approached this book as a complete novice. I had never heard of Hayek, and frankly, reading this book stretched my 18 hours of undergraduate economics about as far as they could be stretched, but I was left with an astonishing respect for this economist turned political theorist. How is it possible that Hayek could have escaped my notice for 50 years? <br />One hundred and thirty pages are devoted, not to Hayek, but to Austrian school economics (i.e. - subjective value, marginalism, entrepreneurship) and its founder Carl Menger. Caldwell introduces key figures in the Austrian school at length (Bohm-Bawerk, Wieser, and Mises) as well as the chief protagonists of the school (German historical, socialism).<br />Into this fray comes Hayek, an ambitious but not a particularly aggressive academic. Any attempt at summarizing Hayek's thought is easily criticized, but from my personal perspective, Hayek seems to have been a master at synthesis. He linked what today would be called cognitive psychology with philosophy to produce an epistemology that is foundational to all his subsequent work. Further, he linked this epistemology with social evolution to explain social advance, social stability, and social institutions and values.<br />Epistemologically, Hayek understood human beings to possess a subjective ignorance. He denounced the \\"rational economic man\\" as a fiction, but asserted the importance of the free market supply/demand pricing mechanism. Without this pricing mechanism, economic planning was doomed to inefficiency and competitive disadvantage while the individual was cast adrift without any objective anchors with which to make decisions. Without the freedom to pursue subjective goals, however ignorant, there was no individual liberty.<br />It was from the random and chaotic subjectively ignorant decisions of the individual that social institutions evolved (i.e. - order out of chaos). The fittest of these social constructs prevail over time and form the framework of stability essential for the maintenance of a free marketplace and for the subjective projection of future value. <br />Hayek was awarded a Nobel Prize for economics in 1974 and the American Medal of Freedom in 1992 by then president George Bush, Sr. After spending a semester reading about this man and his ideas, I have become convinced that Hayek is a foundational thinker undergirding the conservative resurgence in America during the past 40 years. It is unlikely that there will ever be a finer intellectual biography than that provided by Caldwell. Everyone interested in social policy, social justice, and contemporary trends should become familiar with this book.<br />One last warning, Caldwell writes as an academic for academics. Footnotes abound, and there are four appendices directed at specialists. A lay reader will frequently realize that he cannot appreciate all of the subtle points that Caldwell is making. Despite these facts, this is a readable book worth the effort.	2004-05-14
US	50664978	RKIOA997D5BVJ	0300090218	365419541	The Strange Death of American Liberalism	Books	3	4	8	N	N	A starting place for beginners	One need not be an astute observer of public life in America to note the ascendance of the conservative perspective in politics, religion, and education. As a mid-life convert to liberal thought, I approached this book in hopes of finding insight into contemporary trends. With broad brush strokes, Brands paints a historical frame that provides an interesting start.<br />Liberalism - champion of the downtrodden, advocate of egalitarianism, conveyor of compassion - is reduced in Brands analysis to the barest essentials of its American expression. Liberalism so conceived is for making big changes in big ways. Discontent to await progressive evolution of social life, liberalism advocates pro-federalist accretions of power and money to be expended on the behalf of those who lack power and money of their own. While such a picture of liberalism may rankle a few, there seems to be ample evidence in Brands discussion to support such an interpretation of 20th century American liberalism (e.g. - Johnson's Great Society). <br />Why, then, is this liberalism all but dead? Brands' explanation is simple and elegant. He contends that the American public has always maintained a high level of distrust of government. This distrust is overcome only during periods of national emergency. The prolonged dominance of liberalism (from World War II to Great Society and briefly beyond) is best explained as an aberration during which the public distrust of government was temporarily suspended during the hot war and cold war \\"emergencies.\\" Nixon's détente and pre-resignation shenanigans ended the prolonged national emergency, and with it, liberalism's dominance.<br />This book is a quick read, has only eight pages of footnotes, and contains a short annotated bibliography. I consider it appropriate for undergraduate students as an introduction to historical analysis, but found it a bit light for my personal tastes.	2004-03-17
US	50664978	R1A8SO60XH2B9A	0761922857	206629995	The Nature of Qualitative Evidence	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Research is more than null hypothesis testing!	This book is written in the shadow of the Cochrane Collaboration and their standards for Evidence-Based Medicine. EBM is difficult to argue with since it gives priority to the best quantitative medical evidence, looking primarily at the results of randomized, controlled clinical trials and secondarily at meta-analytic studies of clinical reports. From this perspective, qualitative research methodologies provide a subjective perspective at best and mere hearsay at worst. <br />Nonetheless, these medical researchers argue rather persuasively that there is a necessarily and valuable role to be played by qualitative research approaches. The practice of medicine encompasses more than technology. Even the most effective medication can be adversely impacted by other environmental influences in the patient's life; and established treatment protocols routinely rely on patient compliance. It is in this \\"black box\\" of patient motivations, attitudes, and belief structures that qualitative methodologies often excel because they presuppose collaboration of researcher and research subject.<br />The authors refer to medicine as an applied science, and it is in the application of scientific research that qualitative information is required. Analogically, other applied sciences (e.g. - psychology and social work) are most likely to reap therapeutic results from attention to both quantitative and qualitative methodologies. <br />The attentive reader will find logical justification and philosophy support for implementation of qualitative methodologies. I cannot recommend this volume more highly, and I suggest that more social science graduate students should be apprised of its content. Social science research should not be restricted to null hypothesis testing.	2004-02-12
US	50664978	R1PUOTMMSNNMPX	0393317722	245799001	The Life Cycle Completed (Extended Version)	Books	3	91	132	N	N	Remains valuable as historical perspective	Erikson's psychosocial stages of human development are standard fare in introductory psychology textbooks. In this slim volume you will find Erik's personal explanation of these stages and three short chapters by Joan (25 pages total) that elude to an additional ninth stage. Both authors were long-lived (Erik to 91; Joan to 93+), and, accordingly, offer a perspective that relatively few others will share.<br />Having spent most of the last year teaching cognitive psychology, I was struck by the antiquated writing style and absence of empirical justification for Erik's conclusions. He is clearly indebted to the clinical observations and theoretical formulations of Sigmund Freud, and he devotes his entire first chapter to the task of making this indebtedness clear. It reads as though he were attempting to justify his slight deviation from the master.<br />The second chapter is another apologia, this one specifically addressing the synthesis of Freud's psychosexual with Erik's psychosocial stages. It is in this chapter that Erik presents his (in)famous eight-stage chart, but it is not discussed in depth. <br />The more detailed elaboration of the eight stages is attempted in chapter three. Erik starts with old age, rather than with infancy, arguing that the end goal is necessary to understand how the stages relate. His stage explanations are filed with word etymologies, casual references to clinical examples, and sweeping generalizations that embrace world histories, social movements, and philosophies. It would be hard to imagine how one could write this material to be more distinct from the careful limitations and operational definitions required in current psychological research.<br />Erik's last contribution is an extension of the individual emphasis in psychoanalysis into the social realm where he develops the concept of ego development within a social milieu.<br />The concluding chapters by Joan are quite different from what comes before. She advocates a ninth stage beyond old age but does not explicitly define details compatible with Erik's earlier charts. Her metaphorical style paints a picture of gerotranscendance (emphasis on \\"dance\\") in which healthy resolution of earlier stage conflicts leads to a deepening appreciation of the past while living within the constrained, care-receiving present. In this present moment Joan finds an expansion of self that embraces others and a sense of communion with all things, including death itself. These chapters read like a self-eulogy rather than additional theoretical work.<br />I believe that more psychology students should read this book because it so clearly demonstrates the differences between what psychology once was and what psychology has become. There is quite a gulf between speculative theorizing and science. That a book this ensconced within the psychoanalytic worldview could have been published as late as 1982 gives one pause.	2003-08-19
US	50664978	R3N8GHB29B33OM	0312176864	849568379	Crisis in the Academy: Rethinking Higher Education in America	Books	3	3	6	N	N	I�m still looking for the crisis	I once frequented an amusement park with a lengthy log flume ride. The line for the ride was always quite long, and the ride was a rather laid-back course. The final seconds of the ride contained the only thrill - a rapid drop, large splash, and wet exit. Reading this book is a similar experience. The promised \\"provocative analysis\\" really does not begin until page 157.<br />Most of what precedes that point is historical analysis without much punch. The overview in chapter one is suitable only for the novice, focusing as it does on the insight that postsecondary institutions and the professoriate are a diverse lot, that more people attend college today than ever before, that student demographics have changed substantially in the last 30 years, and that college campuses confront a host of recurring controversies. <br />If possible, the second chapter is even a more laborious experience, extending a two page document that distinguishes the historical differences between community colleges, liberal arts colleges, and research universities into a fifty page monograph. Yes, contemporary universities embrace an exceptionally broad range of goals that includes student instruction, research, and service to the greater society. Yes, there is some degree of incompatibility between vocational training, professional preparation, and the more general benefits of a liberal education. That American institutions of higher education achieve each of these goals on a level envied by the rest of the world is scarcely mentioned.<br />Chapter three rehashes the old debate between elitism and egalitarianism in college admissions, a debate that seems to have been rendered permanently irrelevant by pragmatic concerns with enrollment levels. Lucas seems to lament that baccalaureate degrees may serve the same function that high school diplomas once served, but fails to associate this with the extension of adolescence into the twenties and the conversion of the American economy from the manufacturing of products to the management of information. Simply because it is seldom mentioned when discussing affirmative action, I will applaud Lucas' interesting distinction between race-based policies and alternatives that give greater import to socio-economic classes (pp. 115-119).<br />The curriculum is the focus of the fourth chapter in which Lucas appears to prefer pursuit of a general liberal education to professional specialization on the undergraduate level. Frankly, I do not think he supports his position very well. By his own admission it is difficult to measure the higher functions anecdotally associated with a liberal education (open-mindedness, critical thinking, etc.), and he fails to discuss a particularly salient issue - what is most developmentally appropriate for traditional-aged undergraduates? <br />His ten-point agenda for reform is built on the presumptive superiority of a liberal education and the confusion he associates with institutional embrace of conflicting goals. To the extent that one rejects these foundations, one is likely to reject his agenda. Perhaps there is merit in his insistence that existing academic departments restructure, but he provides no guidance on how the newly structured institution might avoid incipient bureaucratization. <br />The fifth chapter is almost a diatribe against the \\"publish or perish\\" evaluation standards of the professoriate. Easily quantifiable assessment standards often assume disproportionate influence; however, the degree of variability within academe, the ubiquity of student evaluations, and the high incident of academic employment by the unpublished all tend to weaken Lucas' contention that publishing requirements have undermined American higher education. <br />As one who is only beginning his academic career, I read Lucas' critique of tenure with interest (pp. 182-186), and I found his explication of pre-tenure pressures enlightening. That he fails to even mention adjunct instructors, on whose back the financial viability of many institutions rest, seems a significant weakness.<br />Using Lucas' own research, it is apparent that American higher education is primarily financed by tuition, grants, and public largess. Accountability, the keynote of chapter six, fails to acknowledge the magnitude of influence that accompanies financial support. Institutions unresponsive to these forces are unlikely to survive intact. The litany of changes Lucas advocates - strategic planning, faculty involvement, curriculum modification, instructional techniques, accreditation standards, teacher training, tenure reform, and faculty evaluation - are being made and will continue to be made according to the dictates of the various constituencies served by higher education.  Institutional change is always slow, but as Lucas' historical analysis reveals, institutional change is steady and sure. <br />Lucas has a writing style that I personally found disquieting. It often reads like a well-written undergraduate research paper that hopes to prove its point by bombarding the reader with quotations. I would have preferred more references to empirical research and more rational argument. I was left with the concluding impression that the crisis in the academy is a product of conflicting values, journalistic hyperbole, and anachronism.  Almost two-thirds of high school graduates attend college. It seems quite obvious to me that there is substantially more right with higher education that Lucas' crisis would seem to indicate.	2003-08-14
US	50664978	RRDU5OL8VELY7	0618116494	276626014	McKeachie's Teaching Tips: Strategies, Research, and Theory for College and University Teachers (11E)	Books	5	45	46	N	N	Start here!	Having just finished my first year of teaching undergraduate psychology courses, I would like to confirm the praise of this book written elsewhere. I cannot imagine a better introduction. Twenty seven short and specific chapters make this an easy read and a useful reference. Each chapter ends with annotated recommendations for further study. No wonder Teaching Tip's is on so many bookshelves.<br />McKeachie is a psychologist, and his personal experience is in teaching the social sciences. His preferred approach is constructivist rather than didactic (he prefers discussion to lectures), and his personal value system (chapter 25) can be sensed in most of his advice. His highest value is love and respect for others within a relativistic framework. He is quite committed to active learning in all its various guises. <br />In a fragmented discipline like psychology, McKeachie's approach is likely to be quite successful. I wonder if those teaching in disciplines with a higher fixed content will find his advice as useful.<br />The primary strength of this book is the smooth blend of theory with practical advice. Research-supported theory (learning and memory in chapters 4 and 5, Bloom's taxonomy in chapter 24) is introduced with a light touch that makes it easy to assimilate - often with a \\"take what you want, leave the rest\\" attitude. In like fashion, the practical advice (cheating, discussion monopolizers) is not heavy-handed, but suggestive.<br />I read this book through over a two day period, finding that it bogged down only in Part 5 that focused on teaching in contexts that I am unlikely to encounter in the near future. Twice I found myself revising my typical course syllabus.	2003-08-12
US	50664978	R2MQO1ON2YN6T3	0679752552	916213869	Discipline & Punish: The Birth of the Prison	Books	5	474	497	N	N	About power and agency, not prisons	This book is no more about the history of prisons than the fable of the rabbit and hare is about animal competition. Foucault is writing about the power of normalization in western society. <br />Within five minutes of my residence there are two large Texas state prisons. The offenders incarcerated in these facilities exist in a network of interlocking disciplinary mechanisms, mechanisms that Foucault unveils in this book. The criminal justice system, the prison environment, the educational/training opportunities available during incarceration, parolee supervision, and the limited employment options on release all coordinate to encapsulate the offender's life. The offender's agency is significantly impaired for the balance of his life regardless of his domiciliary. <br />I live in a master planned, suburban community subject to a detailed and lengthy list of deed restrictions. These deed restrictions dictate the colors that I can paint my house, the height to which my grass can grow, the type of trees that I can plant in the front yard as well as the insistence that I plant three trees in my front yard. My wife and I have had to paint the front door twice in the last four years to comply with homeowner association threats, and we have been chastised for offenses as \\"severe\\" as leaving a hose uncoiled for too long in the front yard. <br />Now I admit that there is a modicum of agency in my decision to live in this specific community; however, just like the offenders incarcerated nearby, I live in a network of interlocking disciplinary mechanisms. I contend that my agency is also significantly impaired. The difference between my life and the offender's life is one of degree, not kind.<br />This is the message Foucault communicates with both style and substance in this book. He identifies three means by which power works on each of us to coerce compliance with the standards of normality: hierarchical observation, normalizing judgment, and examination.<br />The sad andsimple fact is that surveillance is coercive. We might all see the public good in maintaining records of the offenses of the violent, but think for a moment about all of the records kept on you - telephone calls, financial transactions, medical tests and treatment, insurance claims, library check outs, video rentals, credit reports, credit card transactions, property ownership, internet sites, and tax filings. Hierarchical observation is a fact of modern life, and it seems to be steadily increasing.<br />By normalizing judgment, Foucault is referring to the power inherent in all social expectations.  Try applying for a job, a business loan, a home mortgage, or a graduate program, and you will quickly feel the power of normalizing judgments. Woe to the applicant who stands out as different! Rarely do those exercising judgment question their standards, and even more rarely do they make exceptions on an individual basis. The message is loud - conform or else.<br />The last and perhaps most subtle power of normalization lies in the use of examinations. Even low paying professions (public school teachers, social workers, home day care operators) must attain licensure through examination. In Texas, third graders cannot be promoted to the fourth grade without passing a statewide exam. We endure the dominance of testing because of its presumed objectivity, but we all know that testing is not objective. Bias in design and in test conditions influence outcomes, and the testing continues despite an absence of evidence that it reliably predicts future performance. <br />I think this book is brilliant and disturbing. It is not always easy to read, but then, what book worth reading is? Foucault is given to dramatic images, and he does little to mitigate the impact of these images on the reader. Perhaps he is really trying to increase this impact. Since he is attempting to counter the powers of normalization, he may need all of the momentum he can get.	2003-08-06
US	50664978	RNTDSICHXZ3YZ	0814742610	70759273	The Gay Baby Boom: The Psychology of Gay Parenthood	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Excellent treatment of subject ï¿½ minor flaws forgivable	Johnson and OConnor are to be congratulated on providing such an accessible summary of the psychological research on gay and lesbian parenting. Included is both a reasonably reliable summary of the work done by their predecessors, but more importantly, they provide a report on their own recent research, The National Study of Gay and Lesbian Parents. <br />Readers not familiar with the psychological literature on gay and lesbian parenting may not realize the magnitude of Johnson and OConnors work. Gay and lesbian parents have ample social incentive to remain hidden. In order to come out, they must be willing to endure the social criticism that is inevitable in our society, and they must be willing to expose their children to this same criticism. They are a twice-hidden population.<br />For Johnson and OConnor to collect data from a sample of 415 gay and lesbian parents is without precedent. The participants represented 256 families with 56% of the gay and 57% of the lesbian families originating within a gay or lesbian context. <br />Over half of the book provides the written responses of the gay and lesbian parents to open ended questions. One cannot help but be impressed at the intentionality of the decision to become a parent. The communication, soul-searching, and commitment reflected in this decision are a far cry from the post-wedding hots that produced my first child! <br />This pattern of intentionality does not seem to be incidental. The social climate has yet to become fully accepting of gays and lesbians, and these parents express great concern to protect their children from the worst of these social storms. While few parents capriciously select a pediatrician, day care, or public school, these gay and lesbians parents report a degree of thoughtfulness in the parenting role that is easy to admire.<br />In a sense, these parents are charting a new course. The assumption of heterosexual roles in the family simply does not apply, and they have an opportunity to create a more egalitarian homelife. In addition to the directions for future research discussed by the authors, I would suggest that new patterns of parenting may emerge from the gay and lesbian population that could prove useful in evaluating new ways of being and becoming family. <br />As noted by other reviewers, there are a few minor errors in the book. For the best discussion of gay and lesbian demographics, I refer readers to an article by Black, Gates, Sanders, and Taylor in Demography (2000, vol. 37, issue 2, pp. 137-154). They conclude from their careful analysis of available data sources that there are 2 million gay men and 1.2 million lesbians in the United States. Children are living in 14% of the gay households, and in 28% of the lesbian households. While this is significantly less than the 6 to 14 million children suggested by Johnson and OConnor, Black et al. provide solid evidence to conclude that there are more than 300,000 households with children and gay or lesbian parents in the United States. It certainly sounds booming to me.<br />Another minor error is the conclusion that scientists have not found any sign that such children are more likely to be gay or lesbian than are children of heterosexual parents (p. 50). Stacy and Bibliarz in the American Sociological Review (2001, vol. 66, pp. 159-183) discuss this issue at length and tend to disagree with the view expressed by Johnson and OConnor. <br />The striking down of the Texas sodomy statute has recently focused national attention on gay and lesbian rights. This book is an excellent summary of what we do know about families headed by gays and lesbians. Read this book, especially if you do not currently support full civil rights for gays and lesbians. Listen to what these parents have to say for themselves. I doubt that you will find anything to fear.	2003-08-05
US	50664978	R24MFU3K8OH42D	080583267X	351295618	The Evolution of Intelligence	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Some tasting morsels here!	Summers are for self-indulgence, and this summer was devoted largely to the evolution of intelligence. Since brains leave no fossils, few areas in psychology are more pregnant with fantasy than conjectures about the development of human intelligence. In spite of this substantial handicap (at least from my empirical perspective), I found this collection to contain some tasty morsels. Rather than discuss each contribution, I will simply note those I found palatable.<br />Bjorklund and Kipp contribute a fascinating extension of the social cognition hypothesis in chapter three. They locate the origin of human intelligence in inhibition. The capacities to not respond in a social context, to control sexual and aggressive instincts, to parent offspring, and to deceive are all attributable to inhibition. In fact, they even explain theory of mind as a product of inhibitory abilities. I found this chapter particularly refreshing because the speculations are well-founded on the empirical work in neuroscience and cognitive psychology.<br />Byrne, in chapter five, provides a short introduction to the primate origins of intelligence. He questions social complexity as the prime mover of human intelligence, noting that the organization of actions into hierarchical, goal-oriented programs may have been of greater importance.<br />Calvin (chapter six) explains how intra-generational climatic changes may have fueled the growth in human intelligence. By providing an environmental context that selected for group cooperation and precision throwing, rapid climatic change may have fueled the development of syntax, first in the argument-structure schemes necessary to deal with violators of reciprocal altruism, and secondly in novel hand-arm sequencing necessary for precise throws.<br />Flanagan, Hardcastle, and Nahmias deconstruct arguments that suggest that human intelligence is an evolutionary adaptation in chapter nine. They find that it is more likely that intelligence is a spandrel, orinevitable byproduct of adaptations.<br />Jerison provides an interesting look at brain evolution from the perspective of comparative psychology in chapter nine. First he finds the origin of the mammalian cortex in the detailed non-visual sensory processing required for nocturnal existence. Secondly, he finds an adaptive use for this cortex in social predation. Since hominid olfaction had largely ossified, language, cognition, communication, and consciousness, were enabled by happy coincidence of cortex and society.<br />Finally, I cannot fail to mention Plotkins discussion of evolution as a hierarchy of skeptical induction engines primarily because of his creative inclusion of human culture. In this view, the evolution of intelligence cannot be explained apart from the inclusion of cultural influences.<br />I may still have more questions than answers related to the evolution of human intelligence, but I believe that my questions are significantly more insightful and complete after reading this collection. I recommend it for those desiring a sophisticated and comprehensive overview of the competing perspectives.	2003-08-04
US	50664978	R1F8DLLZ1TA3NG	0140443290	167149132	A Nietzsche Reader (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	27	28	N	N	Whetted my appetite for more	Assigned as a textbook in my 19th century philosophy class, I must admit that this little volume was a pleasure to read - twice. While it may be criticized as a collection of Nietzschean quotable quotes, I was continually fascinated by his insights. It left me wondering if any of the ideas attributed to Freud were actually original, and it confirmed some of my own hard won critiques of contemporary evangelicalism.<br />Before the class was over I had purchased another half dozen books by this man!<br />A warning to those considering reading this - you will not receive pages of editorial content. Go elsewhere if you are looking for an interpretation of Nietzsche. Also, you may find this thinker as addictive as I have.	2003-06-20
US	50664978	RGVLWSLIW6RZU	0521559499	512748268	Machiavellian Intelligence II: Extensions and Evaluations	Books	3	11	11	N	N	Does for theory what the 1988 volume did for ethnography	Collected as a self-conscious extension of the 1988 work edited by Byrne and Whiten, \\"Machiavellian Intelligence: Social Expertise and the Evolution of Intellect in Monkeys, Apes, and Humans,\\" this volume contains 14 articles. In spite of the explosion of empirical research sparked by the 1988 volume, this collection does not emphasize a review of this new work. Instead, one is left with the impression that this collection is heavily weighted toward theory and speculation.<br />My evaluation of this collection is that it contains less extension and more refinement of the 1988 presentation. The contributions in this volume tend to limit the grosser conclusions of the earlier work while refining the Machiavellian intelligence concept more precisely. <br />Only a few of the articles warrant specific note, in my opinion. I found Hauser's article on deception to be of value, especially in its careful distinction between functional and intentional deception. Whiten's review of theory of mind research holds promise for anyone interested in that subject. The three empirical articles, Russon's on exploiting expertise, Menzel's on foraging, and Barton and Dunbar on encephalization quotients, also make significant contributions. <br />New theoretical speculations regarding evolutionary triggers include brain modularity, technical expertise, sexual competition, and language left me wishing for more data and less speculation. Only the Boehm chapter on egalitarian behavior and intelligence seemed to warrant a second reading.<br />My advice is to skip this book and go straight to Sternberg and Kaufman's collection \\"The Evolution of Human Intelligence\\" (2001) or Corballis and Lea's \\"The Descent of Mind\\" (1999).	2003-06-19
US	50664978	R3UKQNJXNQP4ZW	0198521758	650193256	Machiavellian Intelligence: Social Expertise and the Evolution of Intellect in Monkeys, Apes, and Humans (Oxford Science Publications) (Bk.1)	Books	3	15	16	N	N	Ethnographically rich	The premise of this collection of articles (25 in all) is really quite simple. The editors contend that the competitive nature of social group living provided the primary impetus driving the evolutionary development of monkey, ape, and human intelligence. Other triggers for this change are considered - tool use and foraging behavior - but this collection represents a significant first salvo advocating social expertise.<br />No more than six articles could be considered empirical research reports due to the absence of significant research in this area prior to the publication of this volume. The majority of the articles are ethnographic is content; however, the variety and specificity of these reports are fascinating reading.<br />The articles are grouped into seven sections. The first includes three early works, one originally published in 1953 that sparked the idea of social expertise. Primate social relationships are the second group, and it contains one study of human child interactions. The effect of adding a third party to dyads is discussed in the social complexity section. Theory of mind especially as it may be demonstrated among chimpanzees is the subject of three articles in the fourth section, and deception is discussed in the fifth. Alternatives to social expertise are reviewed in the sixth section, and the exploitation of the expertise of others in primate groups in the last.<br />Considerable research has been done since 1988 which may have supplanted this collection. For example, Sternberg and Kaufman's collection \\"The Evolution of Human Intelligence\\" (2001) or Corballis and Lea's \\"The Descent of Mind\\" (1999) may be a much better starting places for a review of more contemporary work. Nonetheless, I thoroughly enjoyed this read. If you have the time to indulge in a multi-volume introduction to the evolution of intelligence, find and include this book. To some extent it established the parameters for the ongoing dialog.	2003-06-19
US	50664978	R2CA52BYY3IH0	0292777671	986583675	Brown Tide Rising: Metaphors of Latinos in Contemporary American Public Discourse	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Worthy dissection of public discourse � while tedious	Brown Tide Rising is not one of those social science books with a beat. No one will soon convert it to a hit song or into a blockbuster movie. Reading it is tedious without being overly complicated, but didn't all our mothers make us eat our broccoli? Some books need to be read even when we don't want to read them.<br />Santa Ana walks the reader through his analysis of metaphors utilized in the Los Angeles Times when reporting on three California propositions presented to the electorate in the 1990's. All had direct and potentially adverse repercussions for Latinos. This book carefully deconstructs the ways in which the parameters of the debates were constructed by looking at the language, and metaphors, used in newspaper accounts.<br />The power in Santa Ana's work lies in his explanation of the idea of public discourse. Public discourse is the imaginal limitation of perspectives. This narrowing of perspectives is accomplished by almost subliminal use of metaphor so that the legitimate contours of an issue are restricted by assumption and adoption of a specific cognitive framework. Because this framework is undeclared and public, it serves to significantly restrict public debate and provides an assumptive, public heuristic that easily substantiates bias, injustice, and discrimination.<br />Few in America continue to defend ethnic and racial pejoratives. Their demeaning use is without social acceptance or approval. Santa Ana clearly shows that the metaphors utilized in public discourse are substantially more pejorative than the most blatant verbal slur. <br />I hope that many will read this work. Awareness of the power inherent in the formation of public discourse, a power that is quite subtle and pervasive, can only be controlled by an intelligent and insightful public.	2003-05-15
US	50664978	R118T381EQEEF1	0896083853	539189737	Yearning: Race, Gender, and Cultural Politics	Books	3	16	58	N	N	I yearn, too � one white male response	Being substantially outside of Bell Hooks' target audience, I confess a certain amount of difficulty in hearing what she has to say. Frankly, I had to read this book twice in order to get past her offensive terminology. \\"Whiteness\\" is the foundational problem for Hooks, and it leads to racism, colonization, and \\"oppressive structures of domination.\\"<br />It is possible that Hooks uses inflammatory language with intention. Her overarching purpose seems to be to rekindle black solidarity in order to complete movement toward racial freedom and equality. This goal is laudable, but I find it easier to support Hooks when she rephrases this goal outside of racial class conflict. She advocates for control of one's destiny, self-actualization, community, and integrity of being, but she does not seem to realize that these are the yearnings of all humanity, not simply American blacks.<br />American culture, perhaps every human culture, is hierarchical. Even whites must deal with the \\"oppression\\" of those higher in the structure. Continued fracturing of middle and lower levels of the social structure along racial lines merely diffuses the power innate to each social class. Coalitions across racial, religious, and ethnic barriers are needed to compete with the hegemonic power of the social elites. Hooks passionate voice may actually work to maintain the secondary status of black Americans by making such coalitions more difficult.<br />I find two additional inconsistencies in Hooks message. First, she advocates solidarity and self-actualization, but I cannot help but wonder if these two goals can be harmonized. Secondly, I believe she is guilty of baseline distortion in her assumption of hopelessness as the black cultural norm. This implied victimization is self-defeating, and seems to deny the tremendous advances black Americans have made educationally and economically in the last twenty years.<br />It is possible that America needs to be continually confronted lest we become complacent in the progress we have made toward an egalitarian ideal. If so, Hooks' voice should be heard. But make no mistake about it, Hooks is not a voice of calm reason and balanced reflection. She writes from the fringes where ideals shine so brightly that the merest hint of a blemish is magnified.	2003-05-13
US	50664978	RPXE4WGU9Z55C	0805056696	71060500	Wild Minds: What Animals Really Think	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Subtitle should be how animals and human minds differ	Hauser has written a remarkably accessible introduction to comparative psychology.  While containing the main points one might expect in a textbook outline, he does an excellent job of presenting this information in an interesting narrative form.  <br />Hauser begins with an introductory chapter that presents his basic approach and cautions against anthropomorphisms.<br />Chapters two through four comprise a unit that focuses on those mental capacities shared by animals and human beings.  Both can identify objects and predict their movement. Both can distinguish quantity.  Both can navigate through space.  Perhaps it takes a course in cognitive psychology to appreciate these commonalities, but I believe that Hauser does an excellent job of presenting research results for lay consumption.  His presentation of animal and human infant studies of the expectancy-violation principle is alone worth the cost of the book.  <br />The second section, chapters five through seven, focus on mental capacities which seem to be qualitatively common in animals and humans, but quantitatively distinct. Hauser presents a well-balanced account of the evidence for self-awareness, teaching, and deception among animals.<br />The final section contains two chapters on mental capacities that appear to be almost unique to human beings - language and morality.  Hauser's careful review of animal communication is amazing, as is his locus of morality in the ability to inhibit selfish tendencies to maintain social conventions.  <br />I recommend this book without reservation.  No reader will regret spending time with this book. It is quite stimulating.	2003-01-15
US	50664978	RJLBCX8Y3SL0F	0520236998	759613097	The Practice of Everyday Life	Books	5	190	199	N	N	Enigmatic and enlightening	Sometimes I am simply proud that I have read a book.  This slim volume falls into that category.  The fourteen short chapters explode with new ideas, fresh perspectives, and tantalizing viewpoints.  To summarize these riches is unlikely to do them justice, yet I will try.<br />De Certeau inverts social values and cultural hierarchies.  His hero metaphor is not the exemplar, but rather the ant.  Wisdom resides not in the pronouncement of expert or philosopher, but in the routine discourse between ordinary people.  To De Certeau the definitional constraints imposed by the experts result in artificial distinctions.  Only the discourse of ordinary people is firmly rooted in experience and embraces the varieties and logical complexities of living.<br />Among these complexities of life is the amazing adaptive capacity of the ordinary.  Even the most oppressive and controlling of cultures cannot eradicate the subversive agency of the peasant.  This subversive agency is expressed through mythic stories, common proverbs, and verbal tricks.  De Certeau refers to the adaptive capacity of the ordinary as tactics of living, and these tactics may be best exemplified when the worker does the personal while on the clock.<br />The distinction between strategy and tactics is central to De Certeau's thought.  Strategy refers to the top-down exercise of power to coerce compliance.  Tactics refer to the opportunistic manipulations offered by circumstance.  The conflict between strategies and tactics is ironic - as strategic forces expand to increase dominance, there is a corresponding increase in opportunity for tactical subversion.  <br />De Certeau relates his ideas to the theoretical work of Foucault and Bourdieu, and continues his inverted perspective by looking anew at the concept of city, commuter travel by rail, story telling, writing, reading, and believing.  <br />This book is more of a riddle than a narrative; de Certeau provides glimpses of his meaning from time to time, butdeliberately avoids propositional clarity.  This style requires that the reader take an unusual stance toward this book.  Instead of expecting the author to communicate, the reader must content himself with hints and suggestions of meaning.  I am convinced that these hints and suggestions are more than worth the reader's investment of time.  Find a quiet place and enjoy!	2003-01-12
US	50664978	R1V1XI1RCC3S6D	0231113919	638970769	Social Work Values and Ethics (Foundations of Social Work Knowledge Series)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Leading text, but could be improved	The strongest advantage to this book is that it is written by one who was intimately involved in the development of the various codes of ethics adopted by social workers over the last thirty years.  When Reamer explains a principle, value, or rule, the reader gets the feeling that it is an inside peak into the thought processes the committees actually shared.<br />Reamer presents social work as a value-laden profession.  In chapter one he shares a brief historical perspective on the profession, and places the development of ethical codes for social workers within a larger national context that includes erosion of confidence in authority figures and scientific explanations.  <br />The second chapter provides an excellent discussion of values and their importance to the profession, and it reconsiders the historical roots as a conflict between \\"case\\" social work and \\"cause\\" social work.  His summary of the six orientations that have been taken toward social work is excellent.  This chapter includes a long listing of various taxonomies of social work values.  While of interest historically, it seemed a bit out of place and somewhat peripheral to the primary focus of the book, that is, the preparation of social workers for practice.  It closes with discussion of the inevitable conflict between personal and professional values, and points to the implications of trust and distributive justice as effective means to resolve the conflict.<br />Ethical dilemmas and decision making are the focus of chapter three.  Once again Reamer adds to his historical summary, including additional material on the development of social work codes of ethics.  By this point the reader will be convinced that Reamer should have included one good chapter of history so that the three historical streams in the first three chapters could have been presented as one.  He also discusses the NASW Code (1996) in detail, but this is best utilized by those who are updating their knowledge from an earlier code.  Entry-level social workers do not really need to know how the code has changed, as much as they need to know the current text.<br />In the second half of chapter three, Reamer takes a more philosophical slant that tends to rely heavily on utilitarianism and on John Rawls' distributive justice.  Reamer also presents his schema for resolving ethical conflict.  This section is weak in two respects.  First, Lowenberg and Dolgoff's ethical principles screen is not included in the discussion.  Secondly, I feel that Reamer fails to address contemporary pressures, both political and religious, toward recognition and adoption of an absolutist approach to ethics.  <br />Chapters four and five are application chapters in which Reamer guides discussion of a variety of ethical conflicts that have been and will be faced by practitioners.  An argument could be made that these chapters represent the strength of the book.  Reamer concludes with a final chapter on malpractice and the entire NASW code (1996) in an appendix.<br />Instructors considering Reamer as a textbook are warned that supplemental materials may be required.  I believe additional information in moral philosophy and the ethical principles screen should be considered.  Further, I believe that instructors will find it useful to integrate Reamer's historical sections into a more coherent format for student comprehension.	2002-12-18
US	50664978	R3I1NS4Z9W9265	0198524196	601203770	The Descent of Mind: Psychological Perspectives on Hominid Evolution	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Lucid introduction to evolutionary psychology	I found this collection of 17 essays to be a delightful read.  Only two seemed a little too dense or obscure for an introduction, and many seemed to be top-drawer. Because this book captures different perspectives in one volume, I believe it is an excellent primer on the issues and contemporary state of evolutionary psychology.<br />Taken as a whole this collection argues most explicitly for the evolution of mind.  In particular, the primary challenge is to understand the evolutionary development of personality, theory of mind, metamind, social mind, intelligence and language.  I was continually amazed at the blending of paleontology, neurology, animal studies, and childhood development into a synthetic whole.  The importance of social context in hominid evolution, especially in the development of semantics and grammar, was presented in a clear and convincing manner.<br />Evolutionary psychology must deal with a breadth of data that is astonishing.  Mastery of this interdisciplinary approach may be beyond most readers, but Corballis and Lea offer a diverse collection capable if whetting the appetite of almost everyone.  It is my pleasure to recommend this book for the curious, the analytical, and the theorist.  Within these pages may lie the kernel of a meta-narrative for all of psychology.	2002-09-23
US	50664978	R3D0OLILIFDS3U	0198524196	601203770	The Descent of Mind: Psychological Perspectives on Hominid Evolution	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Lucid introduction to evolutionary psychology	I found this collection of 17 essays to be a delightful read.  Only two seemed a little too dense or obscure for an introduction, and many seemed to be top-drawer. Because this book captures different perspectives in one volume, I believe it is an excellent primer on the issues and contemporary state of evolutionary psychology.<br />Taken as a whole this collection argues most explicitly for the evolution of mind.  In particular, the primary challenge is to understand the evolutionary development of personality, theory of mind, metamind, social mind, intelligence and language.  I was continually amazed at the blending of paleontology, neurology, animal studies, and childhood development into a synthetic whole.  The importance of social context in hominid evolution, especially in the development of semantics and grammar, was presented in a clear and convincing manner.<br />Evolutionary psychology must deal with a breadth of data that is astonishing.  Mastery of this interdisciplinary approach may be beyond most readers, but Corballis and Lea offer a diverse collection capable if whetting the appetite of almost everyone.  It is my pleasure to recommend this book for the curious, the analytical, and the theorist.  Within these pages may lie the kernel of a meta-narrative for all of psychology.	2002-09-23
US	50664978	R2GY0NXIYO77V9	0826412769	943187434	Pedagogy of the Oppressed, 30th Anniversary Edition	Books	3	120	199	N	N	Amazing that 750,000 copies have been sold!	Any reader who has felt the slightest hint of discrimination, any reader who has had to deal with systematic limitations on personal freedom, any reader who has felt rejection by an in-group - all will find Friere's words hitting a sympathetic inner chord.  Perhaps this alone explains the continued publication, and popularity of this book.  <br />Friere does not write like an academic.  His arguments do not unfold in a logical, linear way.  His style resembles an evangelical rant in which wave after wave of argument, each more extreme than the last, assaults the reader until defenses are overwhelmed.  What does he have to say?  His basic contention is that both oppressor and oppressed are controlled by the system, and that only the oppressed can free themselves.<br />This thesis rests upon five presuppositions.  First, Friere is commited to an anthropological philosophy that identifies the ontological vocation of all human beings, that is, \\"to be a Subject who acts upon and transforms his world, and in so doing moves toward ever new possibilities of fuller and richer life individually and collectively.\\" This thinly veiled theology is central to all that Friere writes, even though this exaltation of self-actualization is in direct conflict with the basic presuppositions of most world faiths.  For example, many Christians and Muslims understand obedience to be their ontological vocation.<br />Secondly, Friere argues that History is a problem to be solved.  Again, this presupposition seems antithetical to major thought systems that see balance, suffering, or familial devotion to be the essence of human existence (Taoism, Buddhism, and Confuscianism, respectively).<br />Thirdly, Friere is quite critical of western societies and capitalism in general.  (I counted 26 of 88 footnotes citing Hegel, Marx, Mao, Che Quevera, Castro, or Lenin).  While his criticisms may be worth considering, reduction of western society to technological assistance seems short-sighted.<br />Fourthly, Friere believes that every human being is capable of critical, dialogical encounters.  While I personally applaud this assertion, as well as the priority Friere places on the dialogical process, observation of human interactions is not particularly supportive of this contention.  Many people seem to have little patience or interest in the self-discovery required by genuine dialog.<br />Fifthly, Friere is committed to a communal, rather than individual, approach to liberation.  There is obvious strength in numbers; however, a communal approach seems inconsistent with his ontological vocation.  How is one to radically pursue self-actualization without compromising with in-group limitations in a communal context?<br />In the final analysis, Friere is just as patronizing of the oppressed as any aristocracy.  He asserts that the oppressed must be led to think more critically, they must have their consciousness raised, and they must be persuaded to take action together.  He does not denounce violence, and he disregards patterns of competition and dominance which seem endemic to humanity.  He is guilty of demonizing western societies, deifying \\"the people,\\" and arguing for a socialist ideology without admitting he does so.<br />This was a stimulating read, but not an important book.  I recommend it only to those who enjoy arguing with an author.	2002-09-23
US	50664978	R3BCAEC82MN523	0231106734	940291316	Confronting Injustice and Oppression	Books	3	6	10	N	N	Applies Freire to American context	Gil, working within the worldview of Paulo Freire (see Pedagogy of the Oppressed), presents theories, policies, and practices for social workers who wish to change more than the immediate ills affecting their clients.  Social workers who wish to make an impact on the root causes of social disadvantages, termed \\"radical social workers\\" by Gil, are encouraged to embrace foundational assumptions that are, at a minimum, highly debatable.<br />For example, Gil postulates that human societies that existed prior to settlement into agricultural communities were egalitarian, cooperative, and harmonious.  These hypothetical cultures are presented as free of domination, individualistic competition, and disregard for the dignity of others.  Gil continues describing this \\"return to the native\\" utopia as one in which all work was voluntary and inherently self-motivated.  The produce associated with community effort was apparently distributed equally in accordance to need.  <br />Frankly, Gil's \\"historical\\" analysis is not convincing.  The human proclivity to dominance and competitive interaction is most likely genetically innate since it is evidenced in our closest evolutionary cousins, the other Great Apes.  In fact, the ascendancy of Homo Sapiens over Neanderthal may be best explained by the former's greater aggressiveness.<br />Another foundational thought that appears throughout Gil's work is the assumption that capitalism in inherently flawed.  The surplus that results from the infusion of capital into the mechanisms of production becomes, in Gil's analysis, the root cause of social stratification and oppressive social structures.  While Gil stops short of condemning private ownership of property, the reader cannot be faulted for considering this a logical conclusion consistent with his overarching premise.<br />It is hard to imagine how anyone can condemn capitalism since the fall of the Berlin wall.  Since that time, every country previously denouncing private ownership and free markets has modified their position.  China has embraced capitalism since re-acquiring Hong Kong and found significant growth of a new middle class even in provincial regions.  Eastern Europe has forsaken communism, and there are free farmers' markets in Moscow.  Castro's Cuba may be the single anti-capitalist nation left, and one cannot help wondering how much Castro's survival depends on the ready emigration of social dissidents to the United States.<br />Is there anything of value in this book?  Surprisingly, there is much to commend it.  Gil correctly emphasizes the structural obstacles to the elimination of poverty and oppression.  He is probably correct in stressing employment-related issues as the most crucial element of structural problems.  <br />He warns social workers that helping can become nothing more than another act of oppression.  He challenges social workers to confront the structural causes impeding the progress of their clients.  He advocates (along with Friere above and Charles Taylor in The Ethics of Authenticity) a commitment to dialogical processes to raise critical awareness, and he advises social workers on how to build a support system strong enough to withstand the opposition change advocates will inevitably encounter.<br />I can recommend this book as an exercise in critical analysis, as an introduction to a left-wing social work perspective, and as a challenge to agency-centered social work agendas.  I cannot recommend this book as a pragmatic guide to revise contemporary social work policy or practice.	2002-09-19
US	50664978	R2BIYHUVWVNVAI	0060915935	60901556	I'm Dancing As Fast As I Can	Books	4	36	40	N	N	Gripping tale - God forbid that it happen to anyone else	Hidden within the pages of this intense and absorbing first person account, are sincere and serious warnings for everyone living in our therapeutic culture.  It warns of the false solutions offered by therapists who rely too heavily on medication.  It warns of the dangers of relying on experts to provide healing rather than on self-responsibility.  It warns of the dangers of emotional repression instead of expression.  But the greatest warning may be that we all need to build and maintain networks of supportive and sensitive family and friends.  In the end Gordon credits this resource as contributing the most to her healing.<br />Honored for 15 weeks on the New York Times bestseller's list, this book is the story of Barbara Gordon's anxiety-induced slide into Valium addiction, her ill-advised and dangerous \\"cold-turkey\\" withdrawal, the psychosis and hospitalizations that followed the withdrawal, and her slow, painful, and persistent pathway back to functioning.  Readers may find the first half of the book to be a bit repetitive as Gordon chronicles her destructive relationship with Eric, but the pathos and honesty expressed in her fight back to sanity while at Greenwood Hospital is gripping and compelling.<br />I am aware that there have been changes in state licensing standards for therapists since this book was written.  I am aware that there have been many significant advances in the study of brain biology since this book was written.  I hope that the therapeutic \\"industry\\" may be credited with significant advance since Gordon endured this mistreatment.  Nonetheless, I recommend this book.  It speaks with a distinctive voice warning that we all - treated and untreated, patient and therapist - must take personal responsibility for our mental health within a supportive social context of family and friends.  <br />No one should ever have to repeat the experience Barbara Gordon had.	2002-07-16
US	50664978	R3I7ZT0HJA8RNQ	0674824261	566384513	Sources of the Self: The Making of the Modern Identity	Books	4	163	169	N	N	Tapestry of philosophies with flashes of brilliance	Taylor took two years to write this book; it took me nearly as long to read it!  It is a five-part tome of 525 pages of text and 71 pages of footnotes.  In this entire collection I cannot remember a single section that could be read without my complete concentration.  Quiet and solitude are minimal prerequisites before tackling this book - a good grasp of the history of philosophy wouldn't hurt either.<br />The sources to which Taylor refers are the moral ideals, ideas, and understandings that have dominated in various historical eras.  Taylor's basic premise is rather simple, \\"we are only our selves insofar as we move in a certain space of questions, as we seek and find an orientation to the good (p. 34).\\"  His purpose is not to specify the good, that is, he does not seek to set normative definitions or qualifications.  His purpose is to show that self-definition requires a framework in which to be understood.  <br />The historical course of his narrative begins with the classical perspective.  In this view, self was dependent on a vision of the True or the Ideal.  The hierarchical nature of reality presupposed in classical thought meant that self-definition was subservient to the whole.  Traditional Christian thought embraced the classical perspective and the preference for self-definition by externals.<br />Obviously, this short sketch of classical thought seems to be absurdly irrelevant in our contemporary world.  Self is definitely not defined in relation to externals, but by an extreme interiority, complete rejection of hierarchical schemes, and the assumption that reality is defined empirically rather than conceptually.  This book traces the transformation of the classical perspective through history in each of these areas: the movement toward inwardness, the affirmation of ordinary life, and the voice of nature.  <br />I found Taylor's historical analysis of more value than his contemporary application; however, I have to admit that the latter was quite difficult for me to follow due to my lack of exposure to the material.  In essence he claims that the near universal adoption of benevolence and justice as our predominant ethical values have insufficient foundation.  Radical subjectivity, radical equality, and radical acceptance of nature do not provide a horizon capable of defending contemporary values.  <br />Even though Taylor stops short of offering an external standard, his thorough critique of contemporary inconsistencies is excellent.  I cannot really recommend this book to everyone because it is clearly written to a graduate audience.  If you are not well-read in philosophy, theology, or psychology, it may not be worth your time.	2002-07-02
US	50664978	R335HMTHCMWAN4	0060610352	217222538	The God We Never Knew: Beyond Dogmatic Religion to a More Authentic Contemporary Faith	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Amen, brother!  We really need to get this word out.	This book works like WD-40 on a rusted bolt - short exposure is likely to begin opening closed minds.<br />The first two chapters challenge traditional conceptions of God.  Borg argues persuasively that God is not \\"out there,\\" pouncing on every mistake and blessing every approved action.  This \\"traditional theism\\" does not satisfy reason or experience.  (See Jill Carroll's \\"Savage Side\\" for the limits of the revelation of God in nature).  Borg argues for a view of God that is panentheistic, that is, God is in everything but not limited to everything.  If God is always present, then there is potential for mystical and/or ecstatic experience of God.<br />The third chapter, well worth the price of admission alone, contrasts two images of God.  God as King denotes power, separateness, rule, and control.  God as Spirit denotes life, enjoyment, intimacy, and belonging.  The first leads to an understanding of the Christian life as performance; the second to a life of relationship.<br />The fourth chapter blends Borg's understanding of the pre-Easter Jesus, the post-Easter Christ, and the Bible as meaningful myth into a short synthetic theology that more Christians need to understand and embrace.  <br />In the last section, chapters five through seven, Borg discusses the essence of a spirituality that is consistent with his theology, a collective life (social and political) that is consistent with his theology, and a new way of viewing salvation.<br />One need not be a scholar to see that liberal Christian denominations are declining at an alarming rate. After two years of seeking a liberal church to attend, I've concluded that most do not have a clear understanding of the message they want to share.  I believe that Borg has provided a good beginning.  I hope that many will be moved beyond performance to relationship with this God we can now know.	2002-05-02
US	50664978	R1NTN6GRUEKFPO	0553802666	133143825	Learning to Fall: The Blessings of an Imperfect Life	Books	4	21	25	N	N	We all have to learn to fall eventually	On a recent visit to Europe, I was surprised by the difference in French and German pastries.  Both are beautiful, but the \\"sweetness quotient\\" varies remarkably.  Simmons writes like French pastry - just a little too sweet for my taste.<br />This does not mean that this little volume is not worth a read; however, it does mean that it is not an edgy book.  Simmons does not take us into his private depths.  He does not invite us to share his personal struggles with doubt.  When he asks \\"Why me?\\" he tends to ask without pathos and pain.  He is, instead, unusually humorous and witty.<br />What Simmons does provide is a collection of twelve remarkable essays that explain why he has not given up on life.  Each is written from a post-crisis perspective, and each invites us to embrace life more fully.  I cannot resist reference to one story.  In it he watches a turtle laboriously crawl out of the water, up the bank, onto the bridge, only to cross the bridge and fall back into the water.  While thinking of the futility of all this effort, he sees the turtle start all over again, and is struck by the dance of life.  This book is all about dancing in the face of futility.<br />Although we rarely face the truth, we do not control our own existence.  Simmons has had to face this fact in a most terrible and personal way.  That he can still find laughter, dance, and hope - even while falling - is remarkable.  When my own time of falling comes, I want to face it with this kind of courage.<br />I think I'll keep this book on my shelf for my next crisis.  I think it might help.	2002-03-21
US	50664978	R252UGVGEIVS6X	0742512827	5635840	The Savage Side: Reclaiming Violent Models of God	Books	5	17	17	N	N	The image of God in nature - honest, chilling, and humbling	Brava, Jill Carroll!  This publication of her doctoral dissertation does much more than solidify her position among academics - it argues persuasively for an image of God that is honest and inspiring.<br />Written in response to the political theologies of liberation and feminism, Carroll identifies a thoroughly natural theology in the works of Annie Dillard.  Two chapters explain the God-image in Dillard's work, an image that is unconcerned with human ideologies, politics, and welfare.  In nature, Dillard sees a God of \\"extravagance, beauty, violence, and power intertwined\\" that is separate from humankind.  We are mere sojourners in this natural world that reveals a deity who is \\"savage, sinister, and arbitrary.\\"<br />A fourth chapter connects the separateness of Dillard's conception of God and the radical Otherness of Emmanuel Levinas, especially as both counter the anthropocentric conceptions of a God of concern, compassion and nurturance.<br />In a fascinating fifth chapter, Carroll shows how, by avoiding a whitewash of divine violence and divine disinterest, a natural theology is capable of withstanding Feuerbach's criticism of religion as an idealized human, Freud's critique of religion as wish-fulfillment, and Nietzsche's critique of religion as an self-justifying schema for special interests.<br />Nature is violent and completely unconcerned with an individual's welfare.  The image of God these brutal and empirical facts convey is one of dispassion and distance, but also one of extravagance and beauty.  Carroll suggests that a God that requires a leap of faith and the adoption of a sectarian worldview has little influence in a nuclear and evolutionary age.  The images of God revealed in nature, perhaps embraced better by aesthetic than by faith, may point the way to a theology of substance for a post-modern world.<br />If you have sat in church wondering why God is given credit for all the good things that happen, but never blamed for all the tragic, then this book is definitely for you.this book is definitely for you.	2002-03-07
US	50664978	R1BF6LIOQTGO1	0674268636	517747221	The Ethics of Authenticity	Books	4	144	149	N	N	An ethic whose time has come	This is a short and powerful book.  The frequent references to Taylor's &quot;Sources of the Self&quot; may indicate that it is a mere introduction to the longer work, but I feel that it stands well alone.  <br />Taylor, a Canadian, observes the conservative-liberal debate in America from an outsider's position.  He is able to distance himself from the rhetoric, vocabulary, and narrow categories of this debate.  I found his insights well worth consideration.<br />In essence, Taylor attempts to redefine the debate.  His concerns are threefold.  First, radical individualism has disavowed most moral absolutes, eroded the meaningfulness of life, and resulted in a centripetal self-orientation that denigrates relational connectiveness.  Secondly, Taylor is concerned that modern thought has become dominated by a reason that finds the highest good in the economic maximizing of ends.  This &quot;instrumental reason&quot; demeans others as mere means to an end, disregards important perspectives that are not integral to the cost/benefit equation, and creates a technological supremacy that may cost us our humanity.  Thirdly, Taylor is concerned that institutions have embraced instrumental reason as supreme and creating a power-base that may stand in the way of reform.<br />Most of this book deals exclusively with Taylor's thoughts on the first of these concerns.  Conservatives will be upset that Taylor does not call for a return to older values and older worldviews.  Instead, he accepts the modern emphasis on individualism and the corollaries of self-fulfillment and self-actualization.  He parts with these liberal ideals by arguing that the centripetal self-focus can only find meaning outside of the self.  Discovery of my originality and uniqueness is a dialogical process (with others, values, or deity) that demands an objective &quot;horizon.&quot;<br />Hence, my definition of Taylor's authenticity is the dialogical discovery of my &quot;being.&quot;  Others are not used to complete my project, but are collaborators and partners.  Together we work to throw off the shackles of psychological, institutional, and familial pressures to conform.  Freedom from these shackles is not license to abuse, but becomes ground to assume responsibility for self without excuse.  Radical individualism escapes meaninglessness only in dialogic connectedness and assumption of personal responsibility.  <br />In my view, the ethics of authenticity are much needed.  I hope this book finds many receptive readers.	2002-01-07
US	50664978	R308ZPY6UD6RKC	0671019112	61165871	Learned Optimism: How to Change Your Mind and Your Life	Books	4	23	24	N	N	One of my favorites!	I wish more researchers would write books like this one.  Seligman has managed to escape the obfuscations of technical writing as well as the syrupy simplifications of the self-help genre.  He presents his empirical findings in a way that does not require an advance statistics degree, and he bases his conclusions on these findings in a way that enables the reader to evaluate his claims.  <br />This book is accessible to the thoughtful general reader, but it is not necessarily a quick or easy read.  There will be times when the reader must simply plow through the pages.  Is this effort worth the trouble?  While Seligman's prose may not carry you through the book, his ideas will - helplessness, pessimism, optimism, the links between thinking and feeling - these ideas are quite likely to become a central part of your life.<br />In psychology classes, counselors are cautioned to avoid the imposition of personal values on their clients.  While I see the merit in this warning, Seligman presents a clear empirical basis for advocacy of optimism over pessimism.  This may not be absolute truth, but it is close.<br />I believe there is something in this book for everyone.  Parents need to apply these principles in raising children.  Organizations should apply these principles to release the talents of their employees.  Individuals will find the tools they need to take charge of their self-defeating attitudes.  <br />Read this book with anticipation - it will give you the tools to change your own life.	2001-11-27
US	50664978	R3GGE95YVMOXF1	031051780X	858732473	Disappointment with God: Three Questions No One Asks Aloud	Books	3	34	39	N	N	Asks many hard questions, but only hints at the answers	After writing an introduction to a new book by a novitiate Christian author named &quot;Richard&quot;, Yancey was confronted with Richard's conversion away from God. After much prayer and seeking of God, Richard concludes, &quot;I came to my senses. Nothing had happened. God had not responded. Why continue torturing myself? Why not just forget God and get on with life . . . ?&quot;<br />This book is Yancey's attempt to respond to Richard's questions. Is God unfair? Is God silent? Is God hidden? Perhaps his greatest insight into these questions comes in a simple sentence. &quot;Power can do everything but the most important thing; it cannot control love.&quot; From chapter six through chapter 20, Yancey provides a sketch of biblical history with an eye to answering Richard's questions. <br />Quite frankly, a historical answer is not satisfying. Richard's questions are really personal. Why is God unfair to me? Why won't God reveal His will to me? Why can't I get an answer? There is a special kind of pain, even a kind of betrayal, when a Christian commits everything to God, but finds only silence. There is a sense in which disappointment is little more than unsatisfied longing. <br />In the last third of this book, Yancey tries to deal more directly with these personal implications. I think he does so quite well, but those looking for final answers will be frustrated. Yancey provides hints, leads, and suggestions. Each of us must find our own way through the darkness, silence and pain. <br />This book may help many prepare for a season of darkness. This book may help those who have passed through a season of darkness. But this book did not help me while I was in the dark. Only God can help then.<br />This book ends with Richard separated from God. Should he ever find God again, I hope he writes another book. Maybe that one will help while in the dark.	2001-09-17
US	50664978	R2878WJ8B5LJ96	0380603926	742020309	When Bad Things Happen to Good People	Books	4	12	13	N	N	May be the most honest book I've read	As one who chooses to believe in God, I found this book a challenge to read.  It is Kushner's attempt to explain how he has come to accept and understand the loss of his son, Aaron.<br />Kushner does not lie about the reality of suffering.  All things are not justified in some far off, unfathomable, ultimate ending.  Pain is real.  Injustice wrong.  Unmerited suffering, though the common plight of us all, is portrayed as the offense that it is.<br />So this book does not defend God.  God does not come riding in like the US cavalry.  Perhaps the most shocking statement in it is that God cannot be all-powerful and all-good at the same time.  If both, then God is guilty of not acting when he could, thereby becoming culpable in the very injustice that appalls us.  <br />If you are considering this book, I suspect there is a good chance that you are dealing with a personal tragedy of some kind.  If so, you will be asking yourself many of the same questions that Kushner did.  You may not arrive at his conclusions, but you owe it to yourself to read his book.  You will not regret the effort.	2001-08-16
US	50664978	R2TZSAKEKS27X1	0446605980	264443642	The Last Day	Books	5	26	27	N	N	A feast of pleasure for thoughtful readers	Once every year or two my retired father recommends a book for my reading.  I cannot tell you how glad I am that he included this one!<br />Kleier has created an amazingly lucid, insightful and enjoyable novel.  While endorsing other reviewers' comments concerning the contemporary religious meaning that fills this book, I cannot help but focus on the historical parallels.  I could not read this book without wondering what it was like to know Jesus in the first century.  I believe that this imaginative &quot;second coming&quot; helped me understand the skepticism, adoration and impact that the original generated.<br />I don't often read a novel, as my other reviews will attest, but I recommend this one to all who possess a thoughtful faith.  It is likely to please and surprise you on many levels.	2001-08-16
US	50664978	R3BAUP5K385WYI	013675158X	534806136	Piaget's Theory of Intellectual Development (3rd Edition)	Books	4	22	23	N	N	Prerequisite to tackling anything written by Piaget himself	Piaget's stage theory of intellectual development is rather common fodder for developmental psychology and education courses. Here is an excellent summary of the immense amount of material, both theoretical and experimental, that constitutes the corpus of Piaget's work.<br />Following almost all secondary authors who discuss Piaget, Ginsburg and Opper discuss each cognitive stage in a separate chapter, in this case, labelled after the common age periods exemplified by each stage.<br />I especially liked the introductory chapter that provides a theoretical overview of Paiget's developmental work, and a biographical account of the major publications reflecting the more important aspects of his work, and covering Piaget's entire career. This book is stronger than Flavell's &quot;The Developmental Psychology of Jean Piaget&quot; in explaining the cognitive mechanisms at work in stage transitions, the explication of formal operational thought in adolescence, and the application of Piaget to an educational context. I also liked the focus of this book. Ginsburg and Opper are more careful than Flavell to avoid digressions to touch upon peripheral aspects of Paiget's work. Flavell has greater appreciation of Paiget as an epistemologist.<br />If you intend to read some of Piaget, I strongly recommend this book as an introductory primer. Piaget can be somewhat dense without preparation beforehand.	2001-06-26
US	50664978	RBN3KP6DU8D8S	0442024134	756128250	Developmental Psychology of Jean Piaget (University Series in Psychology)	Books	3	11	12	N	N	Excellent when written, but dated now	Flavell provides a detailed and comprehensive guide to the thought and work of Jean Piaget that was without peer when written.  Unfortunately, Piaget continued to work for almost 20 years following the publication of this book.  <br />The strength of Flavell's work is the 297 page summary of Piaget's theory.  Like most summaries of Piaget's work, chapters are devoted to the sensory-motor period, preoperational thought, concrete operations and formal operations, but I found the introduction to Piaget's epistemology (chapter 7) and Flavell's comparative definition of Piaget's model of intelligence (chapter 2) to be most enlightening.  <br />Flavell writes with a flowery tone somewhat unusual in developmental psychology, but spares little in his attempt to explicate the intricacies of Piaget's thought in a balanced, but critical, manner.  Nonetheless, I prefer the shorter work by Herbert P. Ginsburg and Sylvia Opper titled &quot;Piaget's Theory of Intellectual Development.&quot;  This later work is more comprehensive in that it includes Piaget's entire career, and makes better use of experiments as illustrations that Flavell does.	2001-06-26
US	50664978	R1H9W594YX2BRZ	0335196578	636396410	Pink Therapy Guide for Counselors	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Read if you've ever said, &quot;love the sinner; hate the sin&quot;	...  I am a straight graduate student in psychology who has spent the last 8 months as a volunteer with a local gay telephone switchboard.  I read this book as background for a paper I am writing that attempts to defend adoption by gay/lesbian parents.  It covers all the basics - homophobia and its internalization, the coming out process, GLBT relationships, parenting, aging, etc.  Each is addressed as a blend of theory with case studies so that the reading is smooth, entertaining and interesting.  It is written from a British perspective with an occasional colloquialism, and the appendices are not useful here in the States.<br />But I am so glad that I read this book.  My neurology class convinced me that the etiology of homosexuality is biological. Spong convinced me that the moral condemnation of homosexuality is wrong in &quot;Living in Sin.&quot;  &quot;Pink Therapy&quot; helped me to feel the pain of those society has rejected, to understand how hard it must be to overcome the temptation toward self-loathing such rejection breeds, and to respect the courage of those who have dared to be what they were made.<br />In my evangelical past it was often said that we should &quot;love the sinner while hating the sin.&quot;  I now understand what was wrong with this statement.  By presuming to judge my gay brother or my lesbian sister, I am wounding them.  With God's help I will do so no longer.<br />Read this book with an open heart and mind.  You might learn more than you ever thought you could.	2001-05-24
US	50664978	R3BSNUVDMU9IPE	0805454470	807902093	Shattered Vocations (Bible and Personal Crisis)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Representation of the best the Southern Baptists used to be	In this small volume, Jensen does a wonderful job of blending a psychological insight with compassion for a lay audience.  In spite of many personal reservations about reading this book (Why waste the time?), I found enough nuggets in every chapter to keep me at it.<br />Jensen understands vocation to be more than Christian ministry and more than occupation.  He understands vocation has to do with a commitment to follow a Jesus way of life.  Occupations change, even ministerial ones, but the lifelong process of pilgrimage and growth continues unabated.  <br />His chapter on the pain of loss is sensitive not only to losses suffered from external forces, but also the normal losses associated with our common human life cycle and those losses we bring upon ourselves.  Jensen strives to communicate that loss, when seen within the shadow of the cross, becomes an effective tool to rid us of the falsities with which we so often encase ourselves.<br />He grounds vocation in both creation and covenant, in both who we are and what we are called to do, and challenges us to relive our personal experiences of God even when faced with loss.  In what may well be the best chapter in the book (no. 4), Jensen reminds us that it is our individual experiences of God that sustain us through loss and provide a foundation upon which to rebuild our lives.  <br />To me this book represents the best of what Southern Baptists used to be - a diverse people seeking to know the Unknowable in a personal and experiential way.  While there is no mistaking his strong evangelical convictions, I doubt that Jensen could get this volume published today.  He did remind me of why I was once a Southern Baptist, and of what we have all lost.<br />If you or someone you know has lost moorings, give this book a read.  I'm glad I did.	2001-05-24
US	50664978	R1U202U696POPM	0060675071	193000446	Living in Sin?: A Bishop Rethinks Human Sexuality	Books	5	37	46	N	N	Controversial?  Of course!  Spong wrote it.	In order to understand Spong, one must understand two things.  First, the inertia of the Church, and secondly, Spong's chosen role as change agent.  Mix these two liberally (no pun intended) and his life and work become explicable.  Spong lives what many suspect - it takes quite a load of hyperbole to move the Church!<br />&quot;Living in Sin&quot; was among my first exposures to Spong, and I found him persuasive and entertaining.  He clearly has a knack for seeing Scriptural truth through a lense that my fundamentalist-trained yes tend to neglect.  For example, he opens with the story of Jonah.  I have always seen Jonah as a story about call and obedience, but Spong sees a story about prejudice and inclusiveness.  Read the other reviews posted and you'll find much reference to &quot;sex.&quot;  Spong considers &quot;Living in Sin&quot; to be about prejudice, not sex.  It is about the prejudice of the Church against sexual minorities, that is, the divorced, the homosexual, and the unmarried.  <br />In part two of the book Spong faces the Goliath of defenses for the Church's historical stance - the Bible itself.  I remember the tinge of fear that swept through me the first time I said that &quot;Paul wrote (that), but Paul was wrong.&quot;  Spong has spent a long career squarely facing the over-literalized authority many ascribe to Scripture, and he does so again here, challenging the literal interpreters, the traditional anti-women teachings of the Bible, and the traditional anti-gay interpretations of the Church.  One need not agree with every jot and tittle of Spong's text to agree that the foundations of the traditional positions are quite weak.<br />In part three Spong is at his finest, arguing for a consistent spiritually-based morality that honors the essence of Biblical truth without erecting standards inimical to human dignity and psychological health.  Another example may be in order.  What seems most reasonable to you, to endure a loveless marriage or to pursue wholeness alone?  To applaud committed coupling that is outside the legal strictures of marriage, or to applaud lifeless unions?  Spong, correctly in my view, errs on the side of wholeness and life-sustaining partnerships as indicative of the relationships God hopes for us all.<br />Read this book.  Enjoy the &quot;ride&quot; Spong offers, then let it sink in for a few weeks or months.  Believe me, inside his hyperbole is a jewel of great worth.	2001-05-24
US	50664978	R2XKDEFZBEVHL7	0787948705	515248406	Understanding and Applying Cognitive Development Theory: New Directions for Student Services, Number 88	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Focused on college-aged, but applies beyond those limits	Adult cognitive development is a quickly expanding field.  This little volume provides an excellent introduction to one small part of this field - the traditional college student.  Five theorists (William Perry, Mary Field Belenky, Baxter Magolda, Patricia King and Karen Kitchener, and Robert Kegan) are reviewed with short chapters describing the major tenants of their theories, contemporary shortcomings of their work, and continuing usefulness of the theory for college educators.  <br />Perry set the stage for this discussion by framing collegiate cognitive development in epistemological terms.  As collegiates matured he identified shifts in identity and meaning formation.  Belenky extended Perry's research to women, identifying five epistemological patterns during women's life-span.  Magolda's Epistemological Reflection Model was developed from longitudinal study, and identified gender tendencies and the cross-domain non-generalizability of epistemological level.  King and Kitchener's Reflective Judgment Model extends Jean Piaget's stages into adulthood by emphasizing critical thinking and ill-structured problem resolution.  Kegan's life-span theory of orders of consciousness sees consciousness as the personal construction of experience, emphasizing the organization, rather than content, of feelings, thinking and relating.  Development in Kegan's theory involves redefinition of the subject-object distinction.<br />Please note that only Perry and Magolda limit their theories to the collegiate.  Belenky, King and Kitchener, and Kegan are identifying collegiates within a broader life-span theory.<br />In addition to the five theories, there is one chapter devoted to discussing the interpersonal, cultural and emotional influences on cognitive development, and a concluding chapter that attempts to synthesize the theories into a congruent framework and to provide advice on improving informal assessment of collegiate cognitive developmental level.<br />While it would bedifficult to improve on this concise introduction to collegiate epistemology, this is in no way a comprehensive introduction to the complex field of adult cognitive development.  Much work continues under the umbrella term &quot;postformal operations&quot; and major theorists of note include Jan Sinnott, Michael Commons, Francis Richards, Lawrence Kohlberg, John Broughton, Michael Basseches, Herb Koplowitz, Gisela Labouvie-Vief, Patricia Arlin, Allan Chinen, and Cheryl Armon.  Furthermore, intelligence, wisdom and aging requires mention of Robert Sternberg, Howard Gardner, Timothy Salthouse, and Paul Baltes.  <br />I recommend this volume as a primer to the field of cognitive development, especially as it relates to changing epistemological patterns.  Anyone working with older adolescents and young adults is likely to benefit from exposure to this material.	2001-03-14
US	50664978	R15JQ8NLPBJUCS	089135106X	146436625	Measures of Religiosity	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Wonderful reference in specialty field	Perhaps only a graduate student in psychology can appreciate the frustration garnered by searches for survey instruments.  As one of the younger empirical sciences, psychology is replete with new questionnaires, tests, surveys, etc. every year.  Often it is easier to design an original instrument than it is to find and evaluate an existing one.  Obviously, the multiplication of new psychological instruments makes replication and comparison of experimental data more difficult.<br />This volume seeks to solve this problem for the psychology of religion.  Over 120 instruments are listed.  Each is introduced in detail covering all of the essential bases.  Variables are identified.  The history of the instrument's development and use is discussed, including limitations for current usage.  Norms and standards are provided.  Evidence for both reliability and validity are provided, as is the location in press and in subsequent research.  Finally, the actual test instrument is appended.<br />The only possible improvement would be an index of contacts for obtaining approval to use each instrument.  <br />If you have any influence over your librarian, use it to get a copy of this volume on file.  When needed, it is absolutely indispensable.	2001-01-11
US	50664978	R1KM9GY1PTWFLV	0385418493	610658517	How the Irish Saved Civilization: The Untold Story of Ireland's Heroic Role From the Fall of Rome to the Rise of Medieval Europe (The Hinges of History)	Books	3	11	18	N	N	Should be titled &quot;Christianity Reintrepreted -Irish Version&quot;	Frankly, this book is mis-titled.  Cahill's fascination with the &quot;librarian&quot; role of the Irish seems blatantly over-estimated.  Hyperbole to this extent becomes quaint.<br />The value of Cahill's work is in the last half of the book.  Here he turns his attention to what might be called &quot;Celtic Christianity.&quot;  Without defending every exaggeration of Cahill's imagination, he writes something worth serious consideration on this subject.<br />Roman Christianity (a la Augustine) equated sin with sexuality.  Platonic elements that exalted heavenly ideals also demeaned earthly joys.  Who has not felt the frustration with Church that is so &quot;heavenly-minded it's of no earthy good?&quot;  In opposition to this so-called &quot;Roman&quot; perspective, Cahill presents the Celtic Christianity of Patrick.<br />This faith was something new, the first inculturation of Christianity to occur in centuries without Greek and Roman influence.  &quot;For God's pleasure and man's are reunited, and earth is shot through with flashes of heaven....&quot;  &quot;...the belief grew strong that the one thing the devil cannot bear is laughter.&quot;  Celtic Christianity, as seen through the pen of Cahill, is definitely a faith with dirty feet.<br />Western civilization, and western Christianity, rests on Greek and Roman foundations.  Read this book, not as serious history, but in hope that Cahill's imagination will spark your own.  Perhaps the abundant life promised by Jesus has been misunderstood by us all!	2000-12-20
US	50664978	RRALX761F45QK	0553374397	288544035	The Six Pillars of Self-Esteem:  The Definitive Work on Self-Esteem by the Leading Pioneer in the Field	Books	4	36	41	N	N	Unbalanced but worthwhile	I have recommended this book to many of my personal friends, and I am glad to do so again.<br />Like many of the other reviewers of this book, I found it very meaningful to me personally.  I spent almost 18 months working the sentence completion exercises, and I cannot recommend this process more highly.  If you have an introspective slant, you too may find these exercises more helpful than consulting a therapist.<br />However, I do not want my endorsement of this book to take on the tone of unmitigated praise that many others have.  Branden's writing is cocky, self-absorbed and narrow-minded.  You will not find careful analysis here.  You will not find balance.  Branden is quite proud of his unofficial title &quot;the father of self-esteem,&quot; and he writes as one defending this claim.<br />He is likely to offend those in the helping professions who work directly with people dealing with low self-esteem.  He is likely to offend those working in the public education system.  He is likely to offend evangelical and fundamentalist Christians.  What he says is of value, but one needs a fairly thick skin to glean the best of it.<br />Perhaps the most significant emphasis Branden makes is that self-esteem is so much more than just feeling good about yourself.  Responsibility, integrity, assertiveness, purpose, action - each plays it's part in forming your opinion of yourself.  In this I agree completely.  Self-esteem is not and cannot be based upon the fact that you exist.  &quot;Being&quot; is an inadequate reason to think highly of yourself.  What you have chosen to do with what you are, is the essential foundation of an esteem that can weather life's ups and downs.  <br />I'm glad that he pushed me to take more complete responsibility for my own life.  If you have the courage to try, he might also help you.	2000-12-20
US	50664978	R2OUSBDW5PJHYL	0825426375	904713786	How to Survive in the Ministry	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Best for medium size churches and up	Flynn was a pastor for 45 years.  The last 40 he served one church, Grace Conservative Baptist Church in Nanuet, NY.  His advice on how to survive in ministry is an easy read with very little in it to cause offense.  His tone throughout is tempered with kindness, and only rarely with a pinch of superiority.  <br />His first chapter should be required reading for anyone considering a vocational ministry.  Flynn does an exceptional job of conveying the pitfalls, stressors, church demands and challenges associated with ministry.  He may be retired, but he is not completely out of touch.<br />The rest of the book deals with topical advice from Flynn's own ministry:  delegation, sermon planning, church celebrations, hobbies and relaxation, family, etc.  Pretty mundane stuff really, but he does a good job of covering all the bases.  Flynn's wife contributes a delightful chapter on family life that I highly recommend.  I think it may communicate the pace and stresses of ministry better than the balance of the book.<br />The biggest problem I have with Flynn's approach is that his church was so atypical.  He freely admits that three quarters of all Protestant churches have less than 150 in attendance on Sunday morning.  Even if the church was small when he went there, his stories seem to come from when he had a full-time secretary and additional staff members. He authored one book a year during that time, taught part-time in a small college, and maintained a daily radio broadcast.  His church was in the upper quartile for most of his tenure.<br />Many of his suggestions are completely impractical in a small church.  Small church pastors are lucky if they can avoid mowing the church grounds on Saturday!  Delegation, vacations, visiting speakers and radio ministries are way beyond the possible.<br />I suppose that I would have to add one chapter to Flynn's book - Getting a Bigger Church.  Both my personal experience, and Flynn's, seem to indicate that survival in ministry hasa great deal to do with finding a church large enough to provide the asistance and financial support a pastor needs.<br />Few seminarians today are likely to imitate Flynn's pattern in full.  He was too quick to embrace the sacrifices involved in ministry, and he was too vulnerable to problems that could have occurred.  Toward the end his book becomes nostalgic, and the closing chapter in praise of humility, while an excellent sermon, is quite out of touch with contemporary occupational goal-setting.  <br />Flynn may only imply that the old days were better, but he might be right.	2000-11-29
US	50664978	RWY8VXPXTHTZK	0671867377	896981582	The American Religion: The Emergence of The Post-Christian Nation	Books	4	50	56	N	N	Inventive critique of indigenous faiths from an outsider	Bloom, nominally Jewish, has created a most imaginative assessment of indigenous American faiths.  Mormons, Christian Scientists, Seventh Day Adventists, Jehovahs Witnesses, Pentacostals, New Agers, Southern Baptists, and Afro-American religion are each addressed.  <br />Unlike cult critiques by evangelical authors, Bloom spends almost no time comparing the beliefs of these groups to a measure of orthodoxy.  The genius of Bloom's thesis is that these groups represent different shades of a single American religion - one distinct from the Jewish roots of the Jesus movement and from the European roots of historical Christianity.<br />He identifies, in a rather rambling and unsystematic way, three fundamental principles of this American religion.  (1) The best part of us is uncreated, that is, existing before creation and remains in some sense perfect and divine.  (2) That which frees us is knowledge, not belief founded on assent.  (3) Freedom exists only in solitude.  &quot;What holds these principles together is the American persuasion, however muted or obscure, that we are mortal gods, destined to find ourselves again in worlds as yet undiscovered.&quot;  (p. 103).<br />I was frequently frustrated by Bloom's ability to dance around his main point.  His historical interpretations are excellent.  His thesis incredibly controversial.  It is unfortunate, in my opinion, that he was unable to reduce his arguments to precise formulations.  Personal fascination with the eccentricities of these faiths made it impossible for him to resist digressions.<br />I can recommend this book for those who enjoy dabbling in theological contemplation, despite Bloom's political digression in the closing chapter.  There is much to fuel a weekend's thought in these pages.  If you are so inclined - enjoy!	2000-11-23
US	50664978	RTPSVMSJTKHLS	0060609176	48611944	Meeting Jesus Again for the First Time: The Historical Jesus and the Heart of Contemporary Faith	Books	5	239	260	N	N	A new faith - for after the shipwreck!	Conservative and evangelical Christians often attack the audacity and impiety of the Jesus Seminar.  Just imagine - a collection of scholars proposing to vote on the authenticity of the New Testament record of Jesus life and words!  As one once anchored in contemporary fundamentalism, I find it easy to understand this offense.  <br />Borg challenges this reaction.  He writes with a sensitivity, honesty and spirituality that is much to be admired.  Like so many others, he found traditional and conservative beliefs about Jesus unsatisfying in early adulthood.  His personal hold on traditional Christian beliefs waned as he embraced a modern worldview and liberal religious scholarship.  He became a closet agnostic, then a closet atheist.  Yet, Borg was somehow drawn to always keep searching.  This book is a record of his search; a moving description of Truth as Borg has found it; a very personal answer to the question, \\"Who is this Jesus?\\"<br />His essential premise involves the importance, even primacy, of our personal image of Jesus.  Is Jesus the savior who requires faith?  Or, is Jesus a great teacher of moral ideals?  Borg rejects both in chapter one.  Borg imagines Jesus as one to whom spirit, and the experience of spirit, was foundational.  Accordingly, Borg does not understand the Christian life to be \\"about believing or about being good .... It is about a relationship with God that involves us in a journey of transformation.\\"<br />Reconstructing the pre-Easter life of Jesus with historical criticism, Borg explains that Jesus was a spirit person (chapter two), a social prophet and movement founder (chapter three), and a teacher of wisdom (chapter four).  In these chapters he does not heed the consensus opinion of the Jesus Seminar, but provides his personal conclusions with sensitivity to their implications for the Church and Christian life.  <br />The concluding chapters (five and six) deal with the metaphorical use of language in Christology and the macro-stories of Scripture as imaginal material for contemporary living of the meaning of Scripture.  <br />In 1 Timothy 1:18-19, two are mentioned by name, Hymenaeous and Alexander.  Their faith had become a \\"shipwreck\\" (KJV).  Today their name is legion.  I recommend this book for anyone who feels the water leaking in.  There is more to the experience of God than conformity to denominational patterns and the exaltation of obedience.  Let Borg point the way for you, too.	2000-10-11
US	50664978	RZCVGCPN6FJDE	1557982198	581180691	Getting in: A Step-By-Step Plan for Gaining Admission to Graduate School in Psychology	Books	5	105	107	N	N	Tells you everything you need to know	The APA considers a doctorate to be the entry-level degree for a career as a psychologist. The best programs are accredited by the APA, and the competition to gain acceptance is quite fierce.  This book is an exceptional guide to understanding the entire process.<br />Written primarily for an undergraduate audience, it begins by leading the undergraduate through a careful self-assessment to determine if the skills, interests and resources are realistically available to support completion of a graduate program.  The next chapter is an overview of career options and licensure issues, and covers this material in a more useful manner that Sternberg's \\"Career Paths in Psychology.\\"<br />The earlier in your college work that you read this book, the more useful chapter four will be.  It explains what graduate programs are looking for in GPA, GRE, letter of recommendation, experience, essay, etc., and how you can position yourself to compete effectively for acceptance.  I do not believe that planning for graduate admission can begin too early.  <br />Chapter five takes one through the process of selecting a graduate school, and chapter six focuses on completion and coordination of the application process.  One graduate program that I have talked to eliminates over half of its applicants because the application process in not completed as required!  <br />Less than 10% of applicants are accepted into APA programs.  The concluding chapter provides therapeutic advice regarding non-acceptance, as well as generally accepted protocols for dealing with multiple acceptances.  Checklists and timelines are provided throughout this book to assist you.  Every resource you could possibly need is listed in an appendix, as are a list of APA divisions, an early planning checklist for juniors, and a list of state licensing authorities.<br />Read this book before you ask your professors for advice.  That alone may tend to prove that you are graduate material.	2000-09-27
US	50664978	R323ON94G7H4BJ	1557984115	228974456	Career Paths in Psychology: Where Your Degree Can Take You	Books	3	237	263	N	N	For undergraduates only - others will be disappointed	In this volume, the most current APA career guide available for  psychology, Robert Sternberg lends his name to a collection of articles  covering the fourteen major career options in psychology.  Sternberg writes  no more than a three page Introduction and a five page Epilogue.  The tone  throughout is moderately persuasive.  Each contributor has been hugely  successful in his or her niche, and accordingly, tends to downplay problems  while elevating opportunities.<br />The articles are not of equal quality, but  all tend to cover much of the same ground.  A general overview of the  career is offered.  Entry requirements, including skills and personality  traits, are discussed.  Each addresses details such as potential  compensation, \\"a day in the life of ...\\", and a short review of the  advantages and disadvantages of working in the field.  Those chapters not  dealing with academia and counseling tend to have more detail.  Some even  have recommended reading lists.  All have references.<br />The fourteen  careers include academia (separate chapters on the different academic  departments, i.e., psych, school psych, and business), counseling (private  practices, schools, community organizations and hospitals covered in  separate chapters), government research, public school work,  industrial/organizational psych, consumer psych, human-factors psych,  military psych, and health psych.  <br />Those considering a career in  psychology should note that a doctorate is considered the entry level  education requirement.  I am avoiding the temptation to capitalize every  word of the preceding sentence.  Without a PhD there are few, if any,  career options available in psychology.  <br />Acceptance into an APA  accredited doctoral program is quite competitive.  In the few programs I  have personally evaluated, less than ten percent of the applicants are  accepted.  The head of one psych department warned me that it was easier to  get admittance into medical school than it was into psychology.   <br />Assuming a four year undergraduate education, immediate entry into a  doctoral program, and a one year post-doctoral fellowship (generally  required to compete for the best positions), a career in psychology is  likely to be a nine to eleven year investment.  If you are thinking of  making this investment, read this book.  Better yet, drop by the graduate  psychology department of an APA accredited program and chat with a  professor.  Find a graduate student to interview.  <br />All things  considered, psychology is more of a calling than a career.  If you can be  happy doing something else, maybe you should.	2000-09-18
US	50664978	R1Y0VVL4CUNBR9	006092683X	675066858	Fatherless America: Confronting Our Most Urgent Social Problem	Books	3	24	37	N	N	Flawed, but thought-provoking	Much reading requires a temporary suspension of judgment in order to  really hear what the author is trying to say; however, when reading social  science commentary, I make it a practice to increase my critical faculty  with every occurrence of \\"always\\" and \\"never.\\"  If you are like me, you  will be tempted to miss what Blankenhorn is saying because of his penchant  for overstating the case.  Nonetheless, beneath his polemics and hyperbole,  he presents an interpretation of contemporary American society and family  life that is worthy of a hearing.<br />He contends that fatherlessness is the  most significant American demographic trend.  By this he is referring to  the absence of the biological father as the paternal figure in a nuclear  family.  In chapter one Blankenhorn chronicles the statistics.  In chapter  two he relates the decrease in biological fathers-at-home to increases in  youth violence, domestic violence against women, childhood sexual abuse,  childhood poverty and adolescent pregnancy. Chapter three is a historical  interpretation of the consequences of wartime fatherlessness. Critics  should note that taking issue with Blankenhorn means to engage historical  and statistical analyses, not to attack his tendency to exalt a mythic  Rockwellian past.  <br />Chapters four through ten are the heart of the book.   In these chapters he extends his thesis to claim that there is a feminist  and media-led denigration of fatherhood.  Fatherhood is unnecessary  (chapter four), harmful (chapter five), and undependable (chapter seven).   A father is a part-timer (chapter eight), a sperm-donor (chapter nine), or  a figurative image (chapter ten).  Only the New Father in chapter six is  honored by Blankenhorn, but the conflicting expectations for this New  Father lead to ambiguity and confusion.  For many absence is preferable to  ambiguity.  Blankenhorn closes with a two chapter plea for re-institution  of the Good Family Man, coupled with social policy and governmental  decisions that might assist this process.<br />In my opinion, no thinking  American can advocate a return to the monochromatic and patriarchal past.   The injustices practiced in the name of cultural homogeneity were, and are,  unconscionable.  That Blankenhorn is blind to these implications can be  infuriating, but my ire does not erase the importance of Blankenhorn's  thesis.  Fatherhood, as once envisioned, may be ending in America.  How,  and with what, will it be replaced?  I cannot endorse Blankenhorn's answer,  but I am grateful that he raised the question.	2000-09-11
US	50664978	R2M88WJF3LR0DP	0395924782	475827170	The Way of the Guerrilla: Achieving Success and Balance as an Entrepreneur in the 21st Century (Guerrilla Marketing)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Passion is the Way!	Levinson's fans will find this book particularly interesting.  On the  surface it purports to be a business book about guerrilla entrepreneurship  in the 21st century, but in reality it is a statement of Levinson's  personal philosophy of life.  As one who has successfully escaped the  confinement, regimentation and bureaucracy of the corporate world, he is  one of my heroes.  Reading this book may force you to confront your  self-imposed limitations. Reading this book may move you to change the way  you think.  You have been warned - read this book at your own  risk!<br />Levinson divides his subject into four subject areas:  The Goal,  The Setting, The Tools and The Secrets.  Frankly, this structure is largely  artificial.  Almost everything he has to say is said four times in four  slightly different ways.  There is a great deal of redundancy and  duplication, but like an evangelist, Levinson is not writing to inform, he  is writing to persuade.  <br />And the message that he is trying to get across  is that your life is not your work.  Work should neither control not  dominate your life - your life should control and dominate your work.  This  book is not about how to make more money.  It is not about how to organize  your business, or how to work harder.  This book is about finding your  passion, focusing on your passion, and balancing your passion with the rest  of your life.  <br />Written in short chapters, the longest is eleven pages,  this book is designed for quick, daily snack-like consumption.  If you  struggle to make it through each work day, read this book.  If you end each  week too tired to take your loved one dancing, read this book.  If you  dream about doing something more with your life, read this book.  Levinson  does not have all the answers, but I can guarantee that he will ask you the  right questions.	2000-08-27
US	50664978	R31GFKXKXO6MSX	0844200379	138398369	Teach Yourself Postmodernism	Books	5	49	50	N	N	Postmodernism made clear - at last!	Whipping-boy of preachers, or the coolest of cool labels, \\"postmodern\\" keeps popping into my life unbidden.  Frustrated over my own ignorance of  the term, and unable to pin down a common definition, this book was a  simple solution.  <br />Understanding modernism as the Enlightenment ideals of  progress, optimism, rationality and the search for absolute truth and the  true self, Ward sees postmodernism as the contemporary antithesis embracing  exhaustion, pessimism, irrationality and disillusionment with absolutes.   On the surface this comparison may appear to put postmodernism in a  negative light, when it has much to commend it.  <br />For example, in  architecture (chapter two) the modern perspective was utilitarian.  Form  had to be functional.  The result was inhuman sameness. Postmodern  architecture emphasizes form, not function, and borrows/blends  architectural themes from various places and times to create an eclectic  hodgepodge more representative of human diversity and experience.  This  democratization of architecture is mimicked in literature and the arts  (chapter three) where critics are dethroned as arbiters of taste and  culture in favor of mass appeal and acceptance.<br />Chapter four titled \\"The  Trouble With Reality\\" is simply marvelous, and sets the tone for the  remainder of the book.  Postmodernism changes the very essence of reality.   Just as quantum physics explains that my desk if more \\"space\\" than matter,  postmodern thought sees reality in form, not substance.  The conviction  that \\"image\\" must rest upon something \\"real\\" is contrary to postmodernism,  since image is reality.  Television is the primary medium; Jean Baudrillard  a primary figure.  <br />Chapter five builds on four with poststructural  conceptions of language and meanings. Positing that language is  self-referential and, accordingly, never reflective of essential reality,  postmodernism replaces the author's intent with the readers' insight;  meaning with interpretation; facts with relationships.  <br />In chapters six  and seven Ward explains the postmodern reworking of personal identity.  Rather than the unveiling of innate essence, the postmodern self is  fundamentally social.  Constructed, not created, the postmodern self  \\"becomes\\" through social interactivity. Postmodernism rejects a whole,  unified or coherent psyche in preference for a \\"fleeting, unstable,  incomplete and open-ended mess of desires which cannot be fulfilled.\\"   <br />In chapter eight Ward summarizes postmodernism as against depth and  essence, totality and universality; but for the superficial and  provisional, fragmentation and difference.  He concludes with applications  of postmodern thought in both science and politics.<br />Ward does an  exceptional job of selecting representative postmodern voices, letting them  speak for themselves, and then also giving voice to their critics.  This  style of writing is a little choppy, but is well worth the added insight it  provides.  <br />Now if I can just find a similar book on chaos theory and  quantum physics!	2000-08-17
US	50664978	R2CR2Y987YKQ1P	068471907X	463547246	The Eternal Now	Books	3	15	16	N	N	Accessible and digestible Tillich	Part of a three volume collection of chapel addresses (&quot;The New  Being&quot; and &quot;The Shaking of the Foundations&quot; are the  companion volumes), this book is an unorganized introduction to Tillich's  thought. Each sermon is self-contained; however, the collection has been  organized into three sections.<br />The first, The Human Predicament, spoke  strongly to me, perhaps because I identify so strongly with the sixties.  Tillich's themes, loneliness, being forgotten, evil, being, ministry and  eternity, are shared with a depth and insight rarely captured in sermon  form.  For example, he writes, &quot;they never find the courage to make a  total judgment against themselves, and therefore, they can never find the  courage to believe in a total acceptance of themselves.&quot;  In this  section, Tillich reveals that he is thoroughly Christian, and thoroughly  human.<br />I found the second section, The Divine Reality, less meaningful.  Perhaps his themes were too familiar to me, but his comments on spiritual  presence, the divine name, God's pursuit of man, salvation and eternity did  not grab me with the same intensity as section one.<br />The last section is  The Challenge to Man, in which Tillich deals with nonconformity, strength,  maturity, wisdom and thanksgiving, is a return to what he does best - apply  Christianity to the human condition.  It is filled with practical,  sermon-level applications of his ontological theology.  &quot;Be what you  are - that is the only thing one can ask of any being.&quot;<br />I was  quite impressed by Tillich the preacher.  His grasp of both grace and  humanity is exceptional.	2000-08-15
US	50664978	RM87TXNVDU5G0	0062507877	68856968	Forgotten Truth: The Common Vision of the World's Religions	Books	2	106	150	N	N	Surprisingly disappointing and dated	This book surprised me.  I expected a seasoned synthesis of the world's religions from one of the foremost experts in that field.  I hoped that  Smith might make a persuasive presentation of the foundation upon which  they all were founded.   Instead, this book more closely approximates a  polemic against the Western scientific perspective.<br />Chapter one denounces  science as merely quantitative, and therefore unable to speak to the  qualitative concerns of religion and humanity.  Science is concerned with  objectivity, predictability, control and number.  Religion with values,  purpose, meanings and quality. Science corrupted becomes scientism, the  reduction of all reality to the material.<br />In chapters two and three Smith  begins to present his alternative.  Reading more like a personal ideology  than a research synthesis, he amends the ancient two-story universe  (natural and supernatural) by adding an inner level (psychic or  psychological) and by splitting the supernatural into celestial and  infinite levels.  This four-story, hierarchical model of reality is Smith's  personal explanation of the construct underlying all world religions, but  those looking for documentation to support his view will be disappointed.   Smith does jazz up his perspective by allusion to quantum physics, but this  material is quite dated (originally published in 1976).<br />Chapter four is  the longest chapter in the book.  In it Smith likens his four-story model  to levels of selfhood: body, mind, soul and spirit.  Inexplicably, he  spends eleven pages arguing that the mind is not equivalent to the brain.   The inclusion of an appendix on Stanislav Grof's experiments with LSD is a  strange way of supporting Smith's views.<br />Chapters five and six return to  his critique of science.  The first focusing on his view that science, in  its proper place, supports the \\"common vision\\" of religion.  Essentially,  this common vision is the assertion that \\"things are not as they seem.\\"   Tables appear solid, but quantum physics says they are largely composed of  space.  In the second Smith rejects evolutionary progress.  He claims that  the evidence for evolution would not be persuasive for science were it not  for the predisposition for material, rather than transcendent,  explanations.  He also argues that there has been no human progress.  His  preference for the hunter/gatherer, as opposed to technological man, seems  romantic, if not absurd. <br />Smith presents his personal interpretation of  the \\"common vision\\" of world religions as a top-down explanation for  reality.  Human conceptualizations for the ideal and infinite are  essential, in his view, to understanding all aspects of human existence.   Western science takes a bottom-up approach, with hypothetical constructs  resting upon material facts. Smith's view is really quite simple - science  will never penetrate the infinite by working with the finite.  <br />Unless  you are looking for insight into the personal beliefs of Huston Smith, I do  not recommend this book.	2000-08-11
US	50664978	R188BNXJ5R9KIU	0394748816	580547805	No Boundary	Books	4	91	93	N	N	Transpersonal synthesis of psychology and spirituality	Ken Wilber has provided a synthesis of virtually all psychological  theories and spiritual perspectives in this short introduction to his  spectrum of consciousness.  Consciousness, in this context, refers to our  personal sense of identify, our personal answer to the question,\\"Who am I?\\"   Wilber makes much of the fact that our first answer to this question is  largely a matter of identifying that which is \\"not me.\\"  The distinction  between \\"me\\" and \\"not me\\" is the fundamental human error, for in making it  we deny our oneness with all reality.  Hence the title indicates that to  grow in consciousness is to eliminate these artificial boundaries. The  first half of the book explains this in detail.<br />Fortunately, our denial  of oneness with reality results in dissatisfaction with life that becomes  the primary motivation to resolve four basic false dichotomies: (1) persona  versus shadow; (2) ego versus body; (3) centaur versus environment; and (4)  transpersonal identity versus unity consciousness.  At each stage, the  harmony in identity that follows elimination of the boundary becomes a new  identity defined by new boundaries.  Persona and shadow become ego.  Ego  and body become centaur.  Centaur and environment become a transpersonal,  but non-universal, identity.  Only in unity consciousness, or oneness with  all reality, do we eliminate boundaries and find peace.<br />Chapters are  devoted to all four dichotomies.  In each Wilber discusses the nature of  the boundary conflict and therapeutic approaches sympathetic to its  resolution.  Interestingly, he understands the conflicts in various  therapeutic approaches to be differences in dichotomy rather than truth.   Some therapies work for one stage; others for another; all have value at  times.  Often he discusses the spiritual/religious impact of the  dichotomies and their resolution.  In each chapter he provides a narrative  discussion of related materials by other authors for further  study.<br />Everyone will not find Wilber totally convincing.  Jungians will  be disappointed in Wilber's simplistic resolution of the persona/shadow  boundary.  Christians will be uncomfortable with the strong Hindu emphasis  in unity consciousness.  Behaviorists will note their total absence in the  discussion.  Those predisposed to resist Wilber's synthesis should take  note that it is not fair to reject Wilber without providing a equally  sensitive and compelling synthesis of the myriad therapies, theories of  personality and spiritualities that have lasting value worldwide.<br />This  book is a primer, but one that awakened a desire in me to read more  comprehensively and thoroughly.  The analytical approach of experimental  psychology is unlikely to answer the deepest questions of humanity.   Wilber's spectrum provides a working model that may.	2000-08-09
US	50664978	RTCL8NBU8ZUJG	0385484518	725864791	Tuesdays with Morrie: An Old Man, A Young Man and Life's Greatest Lesson	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Reviews are hard to write through tears	Mitch, and Morrie, have dared to share something special with us, but  finding the words to describe it does not come easy.  It is not just that  they shared closeness and tenderness. It is not just that they shared their  love for one another.  They have moved beyond the meaning of these words.   Mitch and Morrie shared a connection that is at once thoroughly human and  exceedingly rare.  Their story is about what being human is supposed to be  - connecting, relating, becoming more with you than I could ever be by  myself.<br />Read this book in a quiet place.  Take tissues.  And when you're  finished, get up and tell someone how much you care about them.	2000-08-05
US	50664978	R2YOICMRIHE5JZ	0195122909	366709244	The Outrageous Idea of Christian Scholarship	Books	3	4	7	N	N	An appeal for inclusion, when what is need is courage	Marsden addresses two audiences: mainstream university scholars and religious people who are uncertain what &quot;Christian scholarship&quot;  might be.  To both his aim is clear, to show how faith is relevant to  scholarship apart from dogmatism.  I am not entirely sure he has  succeeded.<br />In chapter one he sketches the historical secularization of  the university.  In two he provides answers to three arguments against  inclusion of Christian scholarship: lack of empirical support, offense to  others in a pluralistic setting, and violation of church/state separation.   Chapter three contends with liberal pragmatism and the academic prejudice  against voices of faith.  Marsden contends that faith-informed voices need  not be absolutist, and that to deny them is to undermine pluralism.  &quot;What difference could it possibly make?&quot; is answered in chapter  four by identifying the paradigmatic perspectives faith-informed  scholarship might provide, including faith challenges to naturalistic  reductionism (causation without God), human exaltation, and moralistic  relativism.  <br />In chapter five Marsden's arguments attempts to illustrate  faith-informed scholarship from four perspectives: Creation, Incarnation,  Holy Spirit, and Human Condition.  To me, his entire argument for the  inclusion of Christian scholarship in academia rests on the persuasiveness  of these examples.  Moral progress is possible apart from belief in a  Creator.  Neither the incarnation nor doctrine of the Holy Spirit provide  empirical, reproducible evidences.  These faith convictions may provide a  hermeneutic, but not one that is likely to be persuasive for the  unconverted.  <br />In chapter six Marsden presents academic strategies which  may provide a greater hearing for faith-informed scholarship, and many  examples of how these have worked.  I was left with the impression that the  &quot;idea of Christian scholarship&quot; was already well-seeded and  producing fruit.  <br />Ifall truth is God's truth, and if the pluralistic  world of contemporary academia is the competitive arena in which truth  claims contend, then &quot;Christian&quot; scholarship simply needs to get  into the arena and fight.  Christian scholars, no more than any other  subgroup, should wait to be invited.  I was not convinced that we need more  reflection among Christian scholars.  What we need is more courage.	2000-08-04
US	50664978	RKJ710O0PPJFT	0195122909	366709244	The Outrageous Idea of Christian Scholarship	Books	3	23	30	N	N	An appeal for inclusion, when what is need is courage	Marsden addresses two audiences: mainstream university scholars and religious people who are uncertain what &quot;Christian scholarship&quot;  might be.  To both his aim is clear, to show how faith is relevant to  scholarship apart from dogmatism.  I am not entirely sure he has  succeeded.<br />In chapter one he sketches the historical secularization of  the university.  In two he provides answers to three arguments against  inclusion of Christian scholarship: lack of empirical support, offense to  others in a pluralistic setting, and violation of church/state separation.   Chapter three contends with liberal pragmatism and the academic prejudice  against voices of faith.  Marsden contends that faith-informed voices need  not be absolutist, and that to deny them is to undermine pluralism.  &quot;What difference could it possibly make?&quot; is answered in chapter  four by identifying the paradigmatic perspectives faith-informed  scholarship might provide, including faith challenges to naturalistic  reductionism (causation without God), human exaltation, and moralistic  relativism.  <br />In chapter five Marsden's arguments attempts to illustrate  faith-informed scholarship from four perspectives: Creation, Incarnation,  Holy Spirit, and Human Condition.  To me, his entire argument for the  inclusion of Christian scholarship in academia rests on the persuasiveness  of these examples.  Moral progress is possible apart from belief in a  Creator.  Neither the incarnation nor doctrine of the Holy Spirit provide  empirical, reproducible evidences.  These faith convictions may provide a  hermeneutic, but not one that is likely to be persuasive for the  unconverted.  <br />In chapter six Marsden presents academic strategies which  may provide a greater hearing for faith-informed scholarship, and many  examples of how these have worked.  I was left with the impression that the  &quot;idea of Christian scholarship&quot; was already well-seeded and  producing fruit.  <br />Ifall truth is God's truth, and if the pluralistic  world of contemporary academia is the competitive arena in which truth  claims contend, then &quot;Christian&quot; scholarship simply needs to get  into the arena and fight.  Christian scholars, no more than any other  subgroup, should wait to be invited.  I was not convinced that we need more  reflection among Christian scholars.  What we need is more courage.	2000-08-04
US	50664978	R33XN2OO1OJ709	0567291340	48343059	Why I Am Still a Christian	Books	5	60	63	N	N	You've read the theologian, now meet the man	This short book was a pleasure to read.  Unlike Kung's theological works,  this &quot;personal testimony&quot; reverberates with his large heart and  passion, not simply his erudition and education.  Reading this book is an  excellent way to meet Kung, not necessarily as a theologian, but as a  Christian man of tender, yet bold, heart.  I wish more of my seminary  professors had shared his courage.<br />Beginning with the nihilistic void  created by relativism, Kung asserts his conviction that real Christianity,  contra nominal, organizational, and traditional Christianity, contains the  values upon which to build a meaningful and purposeful life.  That life is  exemplified by newness, in attitudes, actions, motives, viewpoints, etc.   <br />A rosy picture?  Perhaps, but the addenda of &quot;How Do We  Persevere?&quot; provides the essential balance.  Only one who has had the  courage to try, and be defeated by the church, can speak with authority  about the means and reasons for persevering.  I am grateful that he has  shared this word with us.<br />In conclusion Kung challenges us all -  Catholic, Protestant, Free Church, Orthodox - to hear the Spirit's call to  unity.  May this challenge, and prayer, come true in my lifetime.	2000-08-04
US	50664978	R1P8K2PZJJV63U	0465026109	967556370	Intelligence Reframed: Multiple Intelligences For The 21st Century	Books	4	33	38	N	N	MI theory as a new way to look at human nature	Gardner is the father of the theory of multiple intelligences (MI).  For twenty years he has allowed his theory to take on a life of its own, as evidenced by a 20 page Appendix B listing works related to MI by others.   In this book he attempts to clarify what MI theory is, and what it is  not.<br />MI theory is essentially a paradigm through which to  &quot;conceptualize human intellect.&quot;  Gardner claims that MI theory  is &quot;an account of human cognition in its fullness ... a new definition  of human nature, cognitively speaking.&quot;  The essence of MI theory is  not the specific 8.5 intelligences Gardner supports to date, but the eight  criteria he developed by which to evaluate potential candidates for  &quot;intelligence&quot; status.<br />His convictions are clearly stated.   Humans possess multiple, distinct intelligences.  These intelligences are a  &quot;potential to process information in a cultural setting.&quot;  Each  individual possesses a unique blend of potentials which can only be  activated in response to environmental demands.  Therefore, assessment  attempts are wrongheaded.<br />With the exception of linguistic and  logical-mathematical intelligences, an intelligence can only be tested by  watching it in action, that is, problem solving or product creation.  This  is a sigficant weakness for direct application of MI theory to an  educational setting.  MI theory requires individualized education without  meaningfully comparative assessment tools.  <br />In place of comparative and  competitve assessment of students, Gardner argues for teaching  &quot;understanding.&quot;  The intelligences point to &quot;entry  points&quot; through which students might engage curricular materials by  performance.  Instead of evaluating student test-taking skills,  observation, critique and improvement of student performances are  advocated.  In this way Gardner hopes to enhance the overarching goals of  education - the &quot;transintellectual capacities&quot; of analogy,  synthesis and wisdom.<br />I question the practicality of Gardner's  application of MI theory to classroom, while applauding his re-imagining of  human nature and our innate potential for lifelong development.	2000-06-16
US	50664978	R6HVC83DQHWYG	0345417402	845769908	Romancing the Shadow: A Guide to Soul Work for a Vital, Authentic Life	Books	3	82	84	N	N	Useful for midlife reflection	Imagine yourself at a crowded conference table in a dark room.  There are many present, but no role call.  Each person is known only when he or she speaks, but you cannot speak.  In fact, you sometimes cannot even hear.  On  the rare occassion that a light briefly shines, your eyes are usually  closed.  Every decision, reaction, thought and feeling in your life is  determined by the voices at this conference.  Usually the loudest and  shrillest voice dominates.  To the authors, this is a picture of your inner  life.<br />The authors attempt to enlighten the reader so that he begins to  bring the shadow people into the light.  In essence the book is a call for  conscious, intentional life. Instead of a mute observer and victim, the  authors hope to strengthen the innermost Self so that the voices can be  heard, not denied; heeded without dominating. <br />Like much written from a  Jungian perspective, I found this book both frustrating and helpful.   References to Greek myths multiply at an alarming rate, but I found that  prior knowledge of the pregnant meaning of each myth name was not essential  to benefit from this book.<br />The authors explore family of origin shadows,  relationship shadows, shadows in the workplace and the midlife experience  of shadow.  Four primary defenses against self-awareness of the shadow  occur as running themes: money, power, sex and addiction.<br />It is  interesting that there is little or no reference to mortality, aging and  legacy shadow issues.  Perhaps the ages of the authors (at most 51 years?)  has resulted in a less comprehensive view of shadow work.  If so, I hope  they will update this work in 20 years.<br />I recommend this work to others,  like myself, who are consciously working through midlife questions.  This  book may open new vistas for these seekers.  For those looking for a  &quot;how to&quot; prspective, this book will be a disappointment, only  nine pages provide practical advice.	2000-06-09
US	50664978	R1353MOOBEYX3U	1567312187	993188463	Codependent No More & Beyond Codependency	Books	3	84	104	N	N	A review for men only - flawed but possibly of value	This review is addressed specifically to men by a man.<br />When I pick up a self-help book, I am looking for help.  I want the facts, the key points, the substance of the book to jump right out at me so that I can begin to  immediately implement change. Beattie regularly frustrated me.<br />She is a  story-teller.  For example, It takes over 36 pages for her to get to a  definition of codependency.  &quot;A codependent person is one who has let  another person's behavior affect him of her, and who is obsessed with  controlling that person's behavior.&quot;  <br />The problem with this  definition, and with this reprint of two Beattie books in one cover, is  that it is largely meaningless without the stories.  Beattie does not write  to teach as much as she writes to help the reader feel.  I often felt that  I was wading through verbage to get to the point.<br />Looking back on my  experience of reading Beattie, I realize that this may have been her point  all along.  There is a certain logical inconsistency in the male  perspective regarding codependency.  <br />To be codependent is to have a  problem with &quot;control.&quot;  I have become convinced that the  codependent control issues cannot be fixed by learning new control  techniques.  The cure lies in intuiting and feeling.<br />If you are open to  this non-male experience, I recommend this book.  If not, I suggest you try  another, although I cannot suggest another title.  I have yet to find  another book that is as helpful.	2000-05-26
US	50664978	R2JM5EB712X03I	0385487525	295630308	The Powers That Be: Theology for a New Millennium	Books	5	81	88	N	N	A challenge to traditional Christian faith - Don't miss it!	Wink has written a fascinating and readable book.  This isheavy theology packaged for sale to a junk-food crowd.  I recommend itwithout reservation.<br />The essence of Wink's thought revolves around &quot;redemptive violence,&quot; the belief that &quot;violence saves.&quot; The powers Wink engages are those which employ violence to maintain their dominance. This dominace of violence, ranging from literal torture and death to softer forms of humiliation and degradation, are described as the explicit focus of Jesus' life and message. His death, rather than being a violent appeasement of a blood-thirsty God, is revealed as the only nonviolent means of defeating the powers - embracing the unjust suffering of violence as a means of bringing humiliation and reproach to the powerful.<br />Those looking for an exegetical analysis of Jesus' sayings may be initially frustrated by Wink.  He uses biblical references as illustrations, not proof texts, and his imagination frequently stretches the limits of &quot;proper&quot; hermeneutics.  Nonetheless, his imagination captures the spiritual essence of Jesus' call for nonviolent opposition to evil in a powerful and convincing manner.<br />Those hoping for a manual of social activisim will be frustrated by Wink, also. His calls for personal reform and renewal as much as he calls for political change.  Most of his psychological musings are clearly derived from CG Jung, but seem to be written by one who has found Jung's insights personally meaningful.<br />In conclusion, I must commend Wink for his short essay on worldviews and how our unconscious adoption/indoctrination into a worldview influences all that we think and believe.  I also commend his analysis of prayer, especially in this worldview context.<br />As a &quot;recovering fundamentalist&quot; I believe this book may prove to be one of the major pillars in my personal attempt to rebuild my faith.  I simply loved it.	2000-05-25
US	50664978	R3K9LGI2ALIRTX	0931580439	365897156	How to Survive the Loss of a Love	Books	5	335	344	N	N	Emotional healing for broken hearts - excellent!	Let's face it, abandonment hurts.  There would be more charity in murder.  But, if your heart has been broken, if you are the one who wanted the relationship to work, if you are the one left behind - this is the perfect  book for you.  Buy it.<br />In it you will find short, one page chapters chock  full of important reminders, proverbs, advice and practical suggestions.   Throughout the message is constant - let yourself hurt, take responsibility  for your own pain and your own healing, you will survive, you will smile  again, life really is worth living. <br />Accompanying every chapter is a  short, one page, free verse poem.  Nothing has ever helped me feel more  than these did.<br />I read most of this book while sitting in a city park one  sunny, Sunday afternoon.  All around me were families playing with their  children.  Inside I was bleeding, and frequently crying.  It took at least  two more years to get over being dumped, but my healing started that day.   Maybe your's will, too.	2000-05-24
US	50664978	R3C5NPSDSDHCWB	0824505263	188994574	Evil: The Shadow Side of Reality	Books	4	46	46	N	N	Reconciliation of Jung and Christian theology - interesting!	Sanford is an Episcopal priest and Jungian analyst.  This book is his attempt to reconcile CG Jung's conception of the psychological Shadow with the Christian theology of evil.  Though written for a popular audience,  this book succeeds to a large degree.  <br />In turn Sanford covers the  perceptions of evil from a mythological perspective (dualism), from the Old  Testament perspective (monotheism), and from the New Testament perspective  (dualism beneath a monotheistic umbrella).  He contrasts the views of Jesus  and Paul, finding in Jesus support for the Jungian concept of persona,  while condemning Paul as the originator of the Church's historical denial  of the duality of human nature.  He evaluates patristic and more recent  emendations of the devil legend, going so far as to skillfully retell and  analyze the Jekyll/Hyde story.<br />Sanford takes a very balanced perspective  on both the Christian and Jungian side of this issue.  He presents both  cases fairly and critically.  Both traditions are personally valued by  Sanford, and this respect shines through his presentation.  <br />In the end  he concludes with a persuasive reading of Christian theology through a  Jungian lens, finding in crucifixion/resurrection a theological statement  of wholeness compatible with Jung's integration of the Shadow.<br />A book  like this is likely to be based upon many technical, scholarly works.   While there are a few footnotes, I wish Sanford had included more  biographical information for those wishing to dig more deeply.	2000-05-24
US	50664978	R15XQ5MQ6GFSYH	0938434039	500534518	Puer Aeternus: A Psychological Study of the Adult Struggle With the Paradise of Childhood	Books	2	44	61	N	N	Too much jargon, not enough substance	Considered a &quot;classic&quot; by Jungians, I found this book to be so filled with Jungian imagery that it was not worth the trouble of wading through it all.  The majority of the text is an analysis of The Little  Prince, and would be of most value to one who wished to interpret this  story.<br />Almost everything of value regarding the psychological image of  the puer is available in the first chapter which is reprinted in Reclaiming  the Inner Child by Jeremiah Abrams (ed).  Here the reader will find an  entire section on Eternal Youth and Narcissism including excellent chapters  by Joel Covitz (Narcissism), Alice Miller (The Search for the True Self)  and Jeffrey Satinover (The Childhood Self and the Origins of Puer  Psychology).  This last I especially recommend to anyone interested in the  puer.	2000-05-23
US	50664978	R3OU8IGLQQOMOD	0465016901	241968441	The Drama of the Gifted Child: The Search for the True Self, Revised Edition	Books	4	32	40	N	N	A classic in serious need of revision	Miller clearly states in her 1990 preface that her entire psychological orientation has radically changed since writing this book.  Yet, she has opted to leave Drama in its original form.  Considering the constrictions  &quot;orthodox&quot; psychoanalytic theory place on thought, I would love  to see the drama free of these colorings.<br />Be that as it may, virtually  every first-born baby boomer can profit from this book!  Our fathers were  largely absent.  Our mothers were forced into social straightjackets that  stunted their humanity.  The false selves this environment produced has  left a legacy of emotional pain that continues to fuel the therapy  industry.  As Miller contends, our only hope lies in &quot;the emotional  discovery and emotional acceptance of the truth in the individual and  unique history of our childhood.&quot;  <br />This book calls us to this  historical, and personal, task.	2000-05-23
US	50664978	RCOPL1U76XFKP	0553371320	961727244	The Spirituality of Imperfection: Storytelling and the Search for Meaning	Books	5	207	211	N	N	More than a book, this is an experience	This book is to spirituality as riding a rollercoaster is to physics.  It  is not a read; it is an experience.  Kurtz and Ketcham have managed to tell  their own story in such a way that the reader is invited to share in that  experience.  <br />Finding this spirituality of imperfection in Alcoholics  Anonymous and the twelve-step program, K&amp;K have scoured spiritual  writings throughout history to find the words to describe their experience.   Boldface quotes and stories color almost every page.<br />K&amp;K find the  essence of the spiritual in human imperfections and failure, in the  inevitability of pain.  Spirituality is not the evasion of consequences or  errors, but rather learning how to live with them.  They call trying to be  perfect the most tragic human mistake.  They are clear, spirituality is  found in asking the right questions, not in finding the right  answers.<br />Perhaps every reader of this book will not be able to hear it's  music.  Perhaps only those who have been wounded by life, need it.  Perhaps  only those who have drunk deeply of failure will find nourishment here.   All I know is that I did, and to Kurtz and Ketcham I will always be  grateful.	2000-05-23
US	50664978	R3OJD46RU6WKFS	0802840841	353106505	The Romance of the Word: One Man's Love Affair with Theology	Books	5	35	35	N	N	&quot;Keep it light or it will not be light at all.&quot;	A conservative Episcopal priest, Capon is to theological reflection what stand-up comedy is to an academic lecture.  Both may be true, but which one will you spend money to hear on a Friday date?<br />His lighthearted style  belies the depth of his thought, and his passion for the truth.  I have a  theological degree myself, and found that his style resonated with some of  the most meaningful theology I have encountered.  That he makes it  accessible is even more to his credit.<br />In sequence he deals with quite  serious themes: our common priestly office as human beings, the nature of  and reason for evil, and the will of God.  He is always creative and  original.<br />&quot;We have forgotten, you see, not what reality means, but  how it smells and what it tastes like.  The work of theology in our day is  not so much interpretation as contemplation.  God and the world need to be  held up for oohs and aahs before they can safely be analyzed.  Theology  begins with admiration, not problems.&quot;<br />Any pastor who expects me to  sit weekly to hear him preach should spend time with Capon.  Maybe some of  it will rub off on him, too.	2000-05-23
US	50664978	R24DMKU7ZUZODJ	0684848597	621724421	People of the Lie: The Hope for Healing Human Evil	Books	3	24	41	N	N	Neither good psychology  nor good theology	In the grey overlap of psychology and theology one should tread lightly.  Peck makes the requisite warnings as he enters this twilight, but I finished the book with the feeling that his warnings were deceptive.  His  conversion to some form of evangelical Christianity has seriously impaired  his scientific objectivity.  I could not help but feel a strong sense of  self-justification in the last half of the book.  On some level I felt that  he doubted the justifiability of coercive &quot;exorcisms.&quot;<br />Even  with these failings I think some may find this book helpful.  The strength  is Peck's careful identification of the characteristiics of human evil.   First, he takes evilness out of the realm of mundane moralism.  He defines  evil as that which &quot;seeks to kiil life or liveliness.&quot;  I am  grateful that he has escaped the Christian evangelical trap of defining  evil as disobedience to an objective moral code.  Defining good/evil in  terms of liveliness/deadness is the essential beginning of a theologically  and psychologically sound approach to humanness.<br />Secondly, Peck carefully  extends his definition of evil to embrace coercion and scapegoating.  Both  behaviors seem well anchored in self-deception, the primal enemy of both  theology and psychology, in my view.<br />These gleanings from the first three  chapters are well worth reflection, but I found the rest of the book to be  largely a waste of time, with the single exception of Peck's musings on  specialization as a catalyst for group evil.  <br />I am disappointed that  exorcism seems to be Peck's only solution to the problem of human evil, and  cannot help but wonder if this conclusion is a implicit criticism of  psychoanalysis.  If so, Hans Eysenck does a much more thorough job (see  Decline and Fall of the Freudian Empire).	2000-05-23
US	50664978	R3PBSACOPG1IY4	0767901037	717916522	Stepfamilies: Love, Marriage, and Parenting in the First Decade	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Analytical and thorough	Bray has written a popularization of a clinical study conducted over a  decade.  In it he identifies three typical stepfamily types:   Neotraditional, Matriarchal, and Romantic.  He also presents his theory of  a stepfamily life-cycle.  In my opinion, anyone contemplating remarriage  with children should give this book serious study and reflection.<br />Unlike  most self-help literature regarding stepfamilies, Bray presents serious  clinical support for his assertions, although these conclusions are  generally presented in apocryphal case studies to increase lay acceptance  and understanding.  <br />But he makes it clear that stepfamilies are tough.   In fact, my personal review of additional clinical research indicates that  Bray could be accused of soft-peddaling the difficulties a bit.  The  families participating in his study did not include a significant number of  teenage stepchildren, and in my opinion, his conclusions regarding eventual  acceptance of the stepparent is not applicable to the stepfamily with  teenage children.  I believe the Matriarchal stepfamily may be a  significant improvement over the Neotraditional when teenagers are  present.<br />A special note to anyone considering remarriage:  I have three  teenage stepchildren in my six month old remarriage.  It is quite  difficult, I cannot deny that, but knowing this going into the marriage has  made all the difference.  Bray was a major part of halping me prepare for  this new life.  I think he can help you, too.	2000-05-23
US	50664978	R2MY4IH7YT5O93	1878465015	946824578	The Decline and Fall of the Freudian Empire	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Not the last word, but essential reading	Make no mistake about it, Eysenck does not think much of Freud.  At times  his tone adopts a polemical flavor that I personally find distasteful.  Yet  the facts remain.  Anyone hoping to understand Freud and psychoanalytic  theory must read Eysenck, if only to be aware of the questions that must be  faced.<br />Eysenck gives four rules about interpreting Freud.  First, do not  believe what Freud and others have to say about his life.  Check out the  facts for yourself.  Eysenck claims that most biographical material about  Freud is designed to promote hero worship.<br />Second, do not believe the  claims about the effectiveness of the psychoanalytic method.  Look at the  evidence for yourself.  For example, in the famous case of Anna O, Eysenck  documents Freud's failed &quot;cure&quot; and continued treatment by  medical doctors of her tuberculous meningitus.<br />Third, do not accept  claims of originality in Freud's theory. Eysenck traces use of even the  &quot;unconscious&quot; to Freud's predecessors.<br />Fourth, do not accept  Freudian evidence for the correctness of his theories.  Eysenck claims that  the facts often disprove, rather than support, Freud's claims.<br />Eysenck is  not the last word.  Psychoanalysis continues today.  There are proponents  who have extended Freud's theories.  There have been new attempts to find  value in Freud's work.  Nonetheless, Eysenck is essential.  In a sense he  started the entire controversy!	2000-05-23
US	50664978	R3GM9LSSH8GCO6	0231119771	88511618	Anti-Christ: Two Thousand Years of the Human Fascination With Evil	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Historical, but not heavy.  Surprises galore.	This book is not a statement of faith.  Readers will not feast on endtimes paranoia and fanciful imaginings of who, today, the anitchrist may be.  Instead, McGinn offers a well-researched, historical investigation of the  figure of the antichrist.  <br />Beginning with Jewish apocalyptism, McGinn  lets each successive &quot;wave&quot; of Christianity speak for itself.   The recurring themes through which the antichrist has been understood, used  and villified, are detailed in chronological fashion.  <br />His survey is  guite comprehensive, including not only the theological, but also the  artistic and political uses of the antichrist image.  Obbviously, any  historical survey of a Christian image will be dominated by western  European sources, but McGinn is careful to include brief accounts of  Russian usage of the antichrist figure (e.g. Dostoevsky) and even  contemporary American images (e.g. - The Omen).  Frankly, I was surprised  to find reference to C. G. Jung in this book, but this simply indicates the  completeness of this survey.<br />To me this book described how Christianity  has struggled to understand the reality of human evil.  It may have raised  more questions than it answered.  For this reason alone I am glad that I  read it.	2000-05-23
