US	50673134	R3ROVVAOZ8QG8E	1555835414	99972846	The Book of Lies: A Novel	Books	5	4	6	N	N	complex, sophisticated and quite simply a stunner!	Complex, intelligent, ambitious and beautiful! This book captivated me: an astute piece of work where the lies and pretense of the academic world are wonderfully exposed. Anyone will enjoy this book who is familiar with  student and college faculty politics. Also, anyone who has a love of  literature, especially gay literature will enjoy this! I don't think this  is for the &quot;light&quot; reader though or the intellectually timid -  this is a hard and demanding read as there is alot to keep track of. I was  never really a fan of Picano's work until I read this. His attention to  detail and his ability to find wry humour in his characters' actions is  just wonderful! As a current LA resident I could particularly relate to the  depictions of the LA basin and his evocation of the beauty of the area. The  suprises come thick and fast and without giving anything away you will  definitely be shocked at certain matters of a sexual nature...!  Packed  with wonderful literary ilusions, especially to the Violet Quill Club, this  book will hold you in its grasp and you won't be able to put it down!	2000-06-07
US	50673134	R5D0UT38NLPAD	1565121686	874937184	Fay: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Grunge lit. comes to the South	In Australia they call this literary genre &quot;grunge literature&quot; and what a grungy, gritty work of fiction this is! Although a little overlong and somewhat muddled towards the end, this is still a terrific  account of those who make up the &quot;seedier side of life&quot; Poor Fay  she's naive, uninvolved and yet tough and uncompromising. Life in  Missisippi has never looked so bleak for her. Brown has a stark minimalist  style which works well with the subject matter although the ending is week  and tends to fall into stock melodrama. Sexy, edgy, and sad, fay grips us  and doesn't let up. It will put you off going to Southern strip clubs for  ever! The hopelessness and dead end feeling od those on the fringes are  expertly conveyed.	2000-06-07
US	50673134	R1LOAAJTGBR5LI	0385497431	710198060	English Passengers: A Novel	Books	3	6	10	N	N	a novel about my birthplace	Reading this book was a surreal experience for me. As a born and bred Tasmanian and one who grew up in Hobart, I found it hard to read in places. This is a beautifully told tale of one of the most unforgivable and  barbaric acts. The brutal extermination of the Tasmanian Aborigines and the  Tasmanian tiger show that the British still have so much &quot;blood on  their hands&quot;. So many of the places recorded in the book are personal  to me - Flinders Island, Hobart, Launceston, Battery Point - indeed it is  strange reading a work of fiction based on such familiar fact. English  Passengers feels a little less successful as an adventure story and the  plot mechanics become a little worn towards the end but as a treatise on  the harshness of &quot;white mans rule&quot; it cannot be matched. A must  read for anyone interested in Australian history, particularly Tasmanian  history.	2000-06-07
US	50673134	RA3B3ZSPZWC80	0060179473	645468601	Galilee	Books	4	1	1	N	N	a challenging read	There is really know doubt that Clive Barker is an extremely talented writer. The metaphysical analysis of earthly worlds' and the spiritual plain are incredibly complex. Although I enjoyed Galilee I found it a  little too long winded. There is far too much metaphysical posturing by  Maddox, the astute reclusive narrator. I also found myself wanting more of  the &quot;soap opera&quot; narrative of both families. The other reviewers  are right - there are sections where it reads like a cheap Southern  Californian day time television show! However, Barker's cleverly insightful  style and his eye for the passionate and sexual save this novel from being  just a slice of the mediocre. New York has never looked so sinister and  Hawaii has never appeared more beautiful - especially as a background to  the steamy and exotic sex scenes with Rachel and Galilee. And then we have  some remarkable characters, Cesarina, born of the earth and the stars; the  very essence of life itself. Galilee isn't as successful as Barker's ealier  Sacrament and the characters' are not as varied and interesting, however,  in places it is still a riveting read. I also found admirable the  references to the American Civil War and Thomas Jefferson: the astounding  way he weaves fact and fiction to paint a total picture. The novel is truly  epic in scope -  a multi-generational saga which is incedible detailed and  very interesting.	2000-04-12
US	50673134	RLHI3ACXVHUSJ	006019491X	694565872	Daughter of Fortune: A Novel	Books	3	7	12	N	N	a little generic	I read the House of Spirits many, many years ago and I loved it. I decided to read Daughter of Fortune with a great deal of interest. Gone is the complex and intricate style along with the allusions to magic realism. Now  we have a mass market &quot;populist&quot; style. This is by no means a  brilliant mesmerizing novel but it is a proud story of romance, self  discovery and the journey that one takes through life. Eliza is an  extremely strong willed and independent woman and one cannot help admire  her for undertaking an incredible adventure. It is easy to see why Oprah  picked this book as it has all the makings of a generic romantic best  seller. Allende does, however, provide an interesting historical treatise  on the British in Chile, and China in the 19th century. I was particularly  interested to read that many Australians particularly Tasmanian convicts  emigrated from Australia to work in the Californian gold fields. Daughter  of Fortune is educational and entertaining but not really insightful - a  romantic drama masquerading as historical fiction? The book also begs a  sequel but I hope Oprah doesn't pick it for her book club  Read this as an  adventure and romance but that's all!	2000-04-12
US	50673134	R12SZMBGVC9OKM	0451407229	559569265	In the Cut	Books	2	2	2	N	N	A better film!	This will probably make a great noir thriller with Nicole Kidman playing the sexy uninhibited protagonist. It just reeks of Hollywood pretense and promise and I'm sure Vin Deisel would be more than adequate as the  &quot;ultra butch&quot; Mallory. As a sexy, seductive and dark thriller the  novel is OK - the sex scenes ARE erotic, raunchy and compelling if not a  little too het. Moore manages to place you in decadent Manhattan and her  allusions to the seedier side of life in the big city are always astutely  observed. This isn't one of the best psycho-sexual thrllers I've read but  it certainly does a good job in portraying the &quot;darker side&quot; of  human nature. You also need to pay attention to detail when reading because  the author plants a few red herrings early on and it is only at the end  when the threads come together and the true killer is revealed that you can  make sense of the clues. A cleverly constructed novel which is grisly,  gruesome and very dark. A novel that is certainly not for all tastes but if  you love sexual honesty and have a fascination with the psycho-sexual  mentality then you must definitely read this. I can't wait for the movie as  I think Nicole will be terrific!	2000-04-08
US	50673134	R2DWGJS6V4ZHHJ	156512250X	634439244	Comfort and Joy	Books	4	3	3	N	N	a slice of reality for gay men	Question: What do you do when you can't wait to take your gay lover home to meet your parents' and why would you even want to? This is a remarkably bitter sweet novel about a part of gay life which receives very little  attention. Grimsley has crafted a finely tuned and socially astute piece  which centers on the relationship between the &quot;upper class&quot; Ford  and the HIV medical worker Dan. Of course they both steal each others  hearts' and face a life together full of seemingly insumountable obsticles.  The novel raises many important issues: gay commitment, safer sex,  sero-discordent relationships and the tempestuous relationships that gays  can have with their blood relatives. The decision to come out to them is  always difficult and fraut with impossiblities. Using wonderfully three  dimensional and well rounded characters Grimsley handles these issues with  taste and tenderness and shows that there are no easy solutions: Fords  father cannot get beyond years of insitutionalised homophobia. Confronted  with a family like this you feel like telling them both to relax and not to  worry. Anyway they DO transcend their situation which is perhaps the most  positive message of the novel.  They both have what is most important which  is their love and commitment for each other.This is a wonderful slice of  reality and the ending is far from predictable. Don't let the simplistic,  austere style put you off. This is a fine piece of work which sensitively  handles many of the issues confronting gay men today. Comfort and Joy begs  a sequel as I'd love to revisit Dan and Ford in a couple of years.	2000-04-08
US	50673134	R1I6IQMBHMZKV9	0688154522	817701876	Misadventures in the (213)	Books	1	2	3	N	N	Tries but fails	This novel reads like something a fourth grader wouldproduce. The characterisations are for the most part OK but theirdevelopment is hampered by immature dialogue and laughable situations. Some of the comedic scenes do provoke a laugh especially Dandi's escapades on Politically Incorrect with Bill Marr but generally the humour falls dreadfully flat.  Maybe Hensley is really only trying to impress us with his knowledge of the local LA scene... who knows! There is also no story and the episodic structure it pretty mundane as it has all been done before. This is supposed to be a funny book which is really unfunny. Maybe it would make a better cheap, prime time sitcom. I couldn't even finish it!	2000-04-08
US	50673134	R354YY7PQPCHN8	0670894184	334925003	Back Roads (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	26	28	N	N	gritty and edgy and easily one of the best Oprah picks'	You can't help falling for Harley. He's modern literature's great anti-hero; a post modern young man whose wry observations and astute cynicism provide for a remarkably entertaining and moving romp. For an  Oprah selection this novel certainly packs a punch and I admire Oprah for  choosing such and edgy, gritty and urbanly realistic novel for her Book  Club. This is a riveting portrait of a dysfunctional family gone even more  awry when the mother is put in prison after killing their father. Harley  tries desperately to keep it together and we applaud his efforts to stop  the remaining threads of his family life unravelling. Teenage angst, dead  end lives', domestic violence, incestuous couplings and murder are all  played out around a veneer of humour and compassion. Harley is such a  lovable character, beautifully realised and startlingly portrayed. You just  want to keep reading long after the novel ends - I couldn't put it down!  You know though that with an astute and intelligent boy like Harley things  WILL get better. Life is a struggle for the Altmyer family and there is so  much anger but as readers' will discover they manage to transcend this and  find that their true loyalties are to each other. A truly remarkable story  from a remarkable writer. Tawni O'Dell is going to be a real voice on the  current literary landscape.	2000-04-08
US	50673134	R2D7SSCPB924SH	0880642394	302033952	Love Is Where It Falls: The Story of a Passionate Friendship	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A fine memior!	A great writer and talent. This book is also a great memior ofLondon's theatrical scene. Simon didn't use Peggy and Peggy didn't useSimon.  Rather, this work is a wonderful testament to a very close and very personal friendship. They were kindred spirits who shared so much in common. Peggy loved art and loved life and part of her mission was to educate Simon and pass her talents and knowledge onto him. This is at once a riveting and at times sad and melancholy piece of writing. Callow really brings Peggy to life and having been to London and being familiar with the West End I could really identify with this work. It paints a fascinating portrait and provides an exclusive insight into London's literary, artistic and theatrical scene. This is a finely tuned and astute piece of work and Callow should be congratulated on producing a sensitive, emotional and beautiful homage to a woman who was indeed talented, strong and influential.	2000-04-04
US	50673134	R3I4H49FYCMKWG	0375406182	963629300	Plainsong	Books	2	10	18	N	N	an average read, nothing stunning	Yes, this novel IS simple, eloquently phrased and astutely observed. I can see why people are reading it in droves. However, Plainsong is strangely boring! I know nothing is really supposed to happen and plot development is  kept to a minimum but the story is turgid and ultimately unexciting. The  novel does &quot;sing&quot; like wind rising across the Colorado Plains and  there is a nice lyrical flow to the prose but there is also a lack of  anything else happening. This lack of substance is all the more peculiar  when you consider the themes Haruf is exploring - teenage pregnancy, small  town politics, physical abuse, drugs and alcohol etc. Actually this novel  could really read as a Sunday night tacky, sensational miniseries - a made  for TV movie! Everyone comes together to experience the multi-generational  joys of motherhood, so what! Does the exploration of this topic really  demand three hundred pages, especially when it has all been done before.  The angst of small town working class America is becoming a little passe  now re: Billie Letts. This certainly wan't go down as a great work of  American Literature but it is readable nonetheless.	2000-04-04
US	50673134	R2ASGEI74RMKUM	0670888087	843664165	The Danish Girl	Books	5	2	2	N	N	beautiful and seductive	This is a magnificent novel; quite simply one of the best novels' to be published recently. A startlingly beautiful account of one individual's struggle with his sexual identity. The protagonist's loneliness, his  strength and his ability to rise above his situation is wonderfully  portrayed. The love relationship between Greta and Ienar/Lillie is  tastefully handled and compassionately conveyed. Ebershoff seems to  effortlessly transport us from Pasadena to Copenhagen to Paris as we watch  the growth and stransformation of Lillie. This novel is a painting of words  full of light, colour, darkness and shade. Ebershoff is an exceptional  writer, his capacity for natural detail cannot be matched and his  historical knowledge of Germany, Califiornia and Denmark in the early part  of last century is remarkable. A great novel which perfectly handles a  sensitive subject. This is a homage to friendship in the face of loneliness  and adversity and a testament to the fact that one CAN find his true path  in life.	2000-04-04
US	50673134	R2UAX7Z73O5PI9	0452279755	234995964	The Same Embrace: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	An artistic, insightful first novel	An eloquent first novel; I read it in just one day! The Same Embrace is very much an issue piece and very reflective of Lowenthal's own life experiences as a Jewish - American. The religious traditionalism of  Jonathan's conflicts with the secular &quot;gay life&quot; of Jacob's and  of course, sparks fly! Jewish history (which is unfamiliar to me) family  loyalties, gay and lesbian pride, the AIDS crisis, generational roots are  all tackled with compassion and remarkable realism. This is a wonderful  novel of reconciliation and healing and although some of the religious  diatribe becomes a bit much, it still packs a very important wallop!  Lowenthal has a gift for creating characters' with a remarkable depth and  three dimensionality. This novel makes me want to visit Boston and Israel!  The opening scenes at the Wall have a wonderfully detailed and at the same  time sinister feel about them. The author has a beautiful, artistic style,  so perhaps we are seeing the emergence of a real talent!	2000-04-04
US	50673134	RD6E6Z1OTIG2	1555834949	383422796	Fool's Errand: A Novel	Books	1	1	6	N	N	I wouldn't bother!	Don't bother with this one! it isn't worth the time. In fact, I couldn't finish it and I lost interest in it after the first quarter. Bayard tries his hand at a Noel Cowardesque type of comedy of manners but unfortunately  it comes off as a little &quot;half baked&quot; and ultimately contrived.  There is a severe lack of dramatic tension and dreadfully droll and half  hearted attempts at  comedy. What exactly does Bayard want to do with this?  So Patrick falls asleep and sees a man of his dreams - who cares! There is  nothing about this story that is original or dynamic, rather, you are just  faced with pages of inane, inept dialogue with little or no impact. There  is an attempt at some nice, easy and relaxed conversational style but the  negatives of Bayard's writing by far outweigh the positive. Forget it!	2000-04-04
US	50673134	R1EGQYK58FJ5HK	0684829975	318753432	The Vision of Emma Blau	Books	4	25	26	N	N	Epic in scope	A great piece of work. Hegi has done a fine job! I read Stones from the River last year and loved it so it was great to revisit the American side of this family. Although, stylistically &quot;Vision...&quot; is not as sophisticated as &quot;Stones...&quot; it is still  astutely observed. AS a  new immigrant to the US I identified with Stephan Blau as he forges a life  for himself in a new country. The issues raised re: the immigrant  experience ar spot on: the language barrier, the feeling of belonging  neither here nor there, the problems of assimilation and the cost of  retaining one's loyalties to one's homeland are all explored. The  characterisations for the most part are good - I loved the stream of  consciousness episodes - while the characters' are acting their true hidden  motives are being revealed, The Wasserburg contains a wonderfully eclectic  cast of individuals spanning all generations and it is perhaps the central  character. We are witness to its inevitable decay as Emma is released from  her &quot;vision&quot; This novel is a sweeping view of America and shows  us how love and tradition can have such a multi-generational impact. Hegi  brings a wonderfully luminescent quality to her writing and she maintains a  startling capacity for detail. A great work by a great writer and it has  made me want to revisit Stones From the Rover all over again!	2000-03-07
US	50673134	R3LH5FCPY4AV56	0671011456	490784705	Eating Chinese Food Naked: A Novel	Books	3	5	6	N	N	An average read	There are some good things about this novel. However, it does suffer from being a little too long - the action doesn't warrent the length. The characterisations are good, the ambience of New York is great,and the  symbolic representations of food are effective; but the novel suffers from  a lack of action and no real plot. Nothing really happens! <br />Generally   though, good does outweigh the bad. The novel really makes you cherish the  immigrant experience and it presents the American Chinese cultural divide  with compassion and candor. Ruby is a very &quot;modern&quot; girl; a true  feminist in every respect (especially when compared to Bell) and by  contrasting her experiences with the &quot;old world&quot; attitudes of her  parents, Ng is making a very astute statement about the problems young  Chinese Americans face in this country. Her sexual ambivalence and her  confusion over life's choices ie: living at home rather than being  independent and her lack of commitment are issues of import for many young  people today. There is a relevancy about this novel which I think is very  important. Not a great novel, but an OK one!	2000-03-04
US	50673134	R30KU6W2RV40XT	067976397X	659658614	Corelli's Mandolin: A Novel	Books	4	7	7	N	N	sweeping saga	This is a sophisticated, intellectual, historical and highly emotional love story. Bernieres has demonstrated an astounding vocabulary along with a complex, sophisticated and intellectually astute style. The novel takes a  little while to get off the ground but don't let this disappoint you!  Corelli's Mandolin provides a wonderful history lesson re: WW2 and the  relationship that existed between Italy and Greece. This is not a  &quot;light&quot; read but it is certainly very rewarding.	2000-02-15
US	50673134	R1PPNUFGHV6MT1	1565122968	780904511	Gap Creek : The Story of a Marriage	Books	4	8	9	N	N	We never had it so good!	The novel opens with Julie's younger brother having a seizure. This sets the scene for what is to come, you keep thinking will things get better but of course, they never do. Consequently, we have a death by burning, a solo pregnancy, more infant death, bloody descriptions of animal slaughter,  absolutely freezing sub zero weather, starvation, and a massive flood that  nearly wipes everything away. It seems as  though Morgaan is intent to make  us experience the whole gamut of human experience and suffering! He seems  also to be implying that the poor of this world are destined to suffer and  lead a life of constant struggle and hardship. Gap Creek is still a page  turner though as you wonder whether Julie and Hank are ever going to make  sense and achieve some kind of order out of the madness and chaos  surrounding them. Morgan offers us some elegant prose, although at times  the dialogue becomes turgid, stilted and meanders. Also, the plot mechanics  tended to grind about three quarters of the way through as Julie and Hank  discover their &quot;spiritualism&quot;. Morgan, however, sounds as though  he has dome is research, especally regarding the descriptions of food etc.;  you know the prose is effective when you salivate while reading. He also  has an incredible appreciation for the world of the Appalachian high  country, although each day is a battle to keep food in your belly, Julie  still has time to reflect and admire the beauty of the natural world around  her - witness her scenic walks to the top of Gap Creek. Certainly not the  best of the Oprah Book Club picks but good nonetheless.	2000-02-05
US	50673134	RWW8NCTN77NFP	0060926864	533849003	Mysterious Skin: A Novel	Books	4	7	9	N	N	This novel brings some serious issues to light!	I had trouble starting Mysterious Skin as for some reason, I was confused by the narrative so I automatically assumed it was a fairly perfunctory read. However, half way into the novel I was pleasantly suprised. Heim has  written a lyrical, beautiful and quite eloquent first novel and the suject  matter of chilhood molestaton and the subsequent denial certainly packs a  wallop! I loved Heim's use of similie and metaphor and his descriptions of  the natural landscape of Kansas are breathtaking and wonderfully realised.  He captures the constant eb and flow of the world that Brian and Neil  wonder in; a world that keeps them a prisoner. This novel makes you change  the way you view the world. Also fascinating is the portrayal of small town  life and the adolescent gay angst that builds up in such a small  &quot;close&quot; community. I too grew up in a small community so I could  definitely relate to many of Brian's and Neil's yearnings, frustrations and  fears. The time  period - the early 1980's - the age of &quot;new  wave&quot; music, dyed hair, back mascara etc, encapsulates and captures  the isolationism and loneliness of growing up being &quot;different&quot;  in a small, provincial community. Heim is also an expert at bringing the  different narrative threads together and he keeps us guessing right up to  the climax of the novel where Brian and Neil meet and confront the horrific  childhood injustices done to them. Life in Mysterious Skin is hard, gritty,  realistic - witness Neil's sexual escapades in Manhattan towards the end of  the novel. This is gay New York at its best and the author shows his keen  eye for understanding and observing the wilder, racier side of gay life.  Heim never compromises and weaves a wonderful tapestry of mid western life  with remarkable candor. A great piece of work and one of the best gay  novels to encapsulate the trials and tribulations of small town life. This  is a gay novel that not only deals with serious issues but alsoportrays  the all enveloping angst of a disenfanchised generation. I  await more work  with eagerness!	2000-02-05
US	50673134	R38TF2NCYOF1BR	0316781010	155429542	Fortune's Rocks: A Novel	Books	3	4	6	N	N	An elegant read but not a great romance novel: part 2	Fortune's Rocks is a very cinematic novel. I can just imagine Ishmail Merchant and James Ivory obtaining the film rights and producing a gorgeous, lush and sumptuous period drama with Reece Witherspoon as Olympia  and a grey haired Jeremy Northham as John. It certainly has all the  attributes and hallmarks of an eloquently beautiful E.M Forster nineteenth  century costume epic such as A Room With a View. As I was reading I had  visions of Reece Witherspoon dressed in taffeta, lace and silk wondering  elegantly along the sea wall of Fortune's Rocks. She stands wistfully and  looks out at the ocean thinking passionately of John (aka Jeremy Northam!).  Perhaps other reviewers have misinterpreted Shreve's aims and objectives in  writing this novel.Fortune's Rocks is not merely a pedophiliac take on  human relationships; rather she presents a relationship that is remarkably  honest and beautiful. The novel is in reality an indepth exploration of  adolescent longing and sexual passion and like her earlier novels, Shreve  is effectively exploring the ramifications of &quot;forbiddden love&quot;.  Adultery, illicit love and betrayal are subjects that interest the author  and those who are sickened by the subject matter need to take a far closer  look at Shreve's insights. The age gap is not the issue; rather the act of  betrayal and the concept of a love that by societal standards can never be  consumated is the real issue here. The setting is 1899 and a new century is  dawning. Along with this new century comes a loosening of social mores.  Olympia's character reflects this. She is stoically independent and her  actions in fighting for the return of Pierre show that although she is a  woman, she is also a formidable foe. Her affair and subsequent ostracism  from society WAS terrible but at the heart of this disaster came something  good. Her new found vocation, her vitality and her independence of spirit  are her triumphs.	2000-02-01
US	50673134	R1D4134HWJGISG	0802136621	129559433	Allan Stein	Books	3	11	14	N	N	Sexy &amp; intelligent but there are better gay novels out there	I enjoyed this novel on a fairly perfunctory level as I've recently read far more involving gay fiction. While reading Allan Stein, I was reminded of British author Alan Hollinghurst, who I feel does a far better job in  portaying the sexual mores and misdemeanors of the &quot;upper crust&quot;  college educated  and artistically driven gay man. Allan Stein does not  disappoint though as there are some good things about this novel. The  descriptions of Paris and rural France, especially the French Mediterranean  are startling in their authenticity; Stadler manages to capture the  wonderful idiosyncrasies of Parisian gay life. He also demonstrates a  remarkable command of the language and his capacity for constructing  wonderfully complex and fluent sentences astounded me. The story of the  narrator's pedophiliac obsessions with Stephane, the 15 year old Parisian  are similiarly funny, sexy, erotic and dangerous but yet strangely  unconvincing. As for the central theme of man boy love, wel, I feel Stadler  is making an important point that some teenagers can be very aware of what  they are doing in matters sexual. In approaching this theme, however,  Stadler seems intent on perpetuating the stereotypes  of man boy pedophile  relationships. Paul Russell handled this issue far more effectively in The  Coming Storm, a very upbeat and realistic account of the same scenario.  There are some wonderfully funny and heart rendering scenes in Allan Stein,  especially the scenes between the narrator and Stephane's family. The long  distance phone conversations made to his partner in crime Herbert back in  the US also provide some laughs.  In general, however, I think a deeper  appreciation of this novel really depends on having a familiarity, not just  with the French language but  Paris and all things Parisian. The novel at  times appears as a rather intellectually astute tourist guide to Paris.  This novel IS challenging and it IS full of complexities, however don't let  thisput you off. I've just ordered another of Stadler's novel's as I  admire his sophisticated, intelligent (if not a little pretentious) style.  I just hope he has the fortitude other equally important gay related  themes.	2000-01-29
US	50673134	R3KX70S4DTY1KN	0316781010	155429542	Fortune's Rocks: A Novel	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Elegant but not a great romance novel	The first half of Fortune's Rocks is a stunningly sexy and poetically elegant treatis on adolescent love. I found the build up to Olympia's affair with John Haskell quite startling, however, it seems to get bogged  down as it goes and the plot mechanics slow, especially in the final  quarter. It almost comes across as a &quot;half baked&quot; melodramatic  court room drama. On some levels the novel works but it certainly doesn't  live up to the wonderful Weight of Water, Shreve's earlier historical  drama. Although like The Pilot's Wife, Fortune's Rocks is certainly a page  turner. The reader throughout most of the novel does become involved in the  characters' emotions and there is a feeling of dread effectively produced,  especially in the first half: we know Olympia and John are going to be  discovered, it's only a matter of where and  when. After the initial  discovery of the affair though, we know that the socially down trodden girl  is going to ultimately triumph. The characters tend to be either stock  stereotypes or too underdeveloped. Olympia's foreboding staunchly rigid and  ultimately forgiving father, the handsome John, and the ineffectual, bland  mother. This is certainly no masterpiece of literature with its generic,  formulaic plot. However, the characters' for all their idiosyncrasies are  likable and at least Shreve makes an attempt to develop Olympia's  character.	2000-01-29
US	50673134	R1UUI91LXWLCUD	1885983409	256170784	Lawnboy	Books	5	117	120	N	N	An astute tale of suburban &quot;gay angst&quot;	Lawnboy is a beautifully realised, erotic and at times wonderfully sexy read from first time author Paul Lisicky. The characterisations are spot on and the story of a young gay guy's emotional and spiritual growth is quite  riveting. This is a remarkably bittersweet tale which effectively portrays  the &quot;topographical&quot; emotional growth of Evan a seventeen year old  &quot;gay everyman&quot;  Lisicky sets his novel against the decaying  suburban world of South Florida and uses this to symbolically portray the  ever existing dysfunctionalilties that can exist in contemporary families.  Evan nurtures a private world which is full of sexual and emotional longing  and Lisicky effectively juxtaposes this with the indiscriminate ugliness of  the landscapes he walks in. Adolescent confusion, the first gay sexual  passion, sexuality in the age of AIDS, sibling and parental relationships  and the transience of everyday life are all addressed with startling  alacrity in this book. There is a genuine compassion evident in Evan's  journey through adolescence - witness his first relationship with the older  and world weary Willam and its subsequent disintegraton. There is  compassion evident in his strained relationship with his overbearing  father, ineffectual mother and his sexually ambivalent brother. The passion  is evident in his affair with Hector, the sexy urbanite. This leads to  ultimate fulfillment in the arms of the affable and altuistic Perry. This  is an incedibly naturalistic and gritty piece of work and Lisicky never  &quot;sugar coats&quot; or compromises Evan's circumstances and his  desperation to be loved. Evan moves on in life and at the end of the novel  we hopefully see him grow up. Lawnboy is a wonderful examination of the  growth of the young gay male psyche and this is something that I think  people whether gay or straight can at some point in their lives relate  to.<br />Michael Leonard	2000-01-18
US	50673134	RPLGQ0JJDH127	0385720106	305678170	A Map of the World: A Novel (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	38	40	N	N	beautifully eloquent, Hamilton is a great writer	I read A Short History of A Prince last year and I was incredibly impressed with Hamilton's work. So when Oprah picked A Map of the World for her Bookclub I was anxiously anticipating a good read. I must say that I  was far from disappointed for the novel which traces the fall and rise of a  farm workers family is indeed a sharply beautiful and elegant work. I feel  that the triptych like structure is an excellent way of highlighting the  different points of view  - Alice, her husband Howard and then back to  Alice for the final court room scenes. The psychological descriptions of  Alice's inability to cope with Lizzie's drowning are riveting. Also,  masterful are the decriptions of her husband Howard as he tries to hold up  the &quot;home front&quot;  when Alice is incarcerated for suspected child  abuse. Hamilton's eye for natural detail is great and her use of metaphor  terrific. She has a keen ear for natural dialogue and a remarkable capacity  to present wonderfully complex three dimensional characters. She really  makes us feel Alice, Howard's and Teresa's pain and hurt. The novel works  on many levels: as a &quot;map&quot; of family life which slowly  disintergrates; a psychological analysis of death grief and loss; and also  as a cinematic court room drama (I can't wait to see the film!). The  fragilities of economic circumstance are also explored. Nothing in life is  ever guaranteed. Hamilton shows the closed mindedness of small town life:  the Goodwins were percieved as different, eccentic and hippyish. They  didn't fit in and the &quot;god fearing&quot; citizens of the town new it.  By writing this novel Hamilton is perhaps making us not only aware of the  shortcomings of being different in a homogenious environment but also the  pitfalls of trying to build a life in such an insulated and ultimately  prejudiced community. A great, important work of literature.<br />Michael  Leonard	2000-01-15
US	50673134	RH3UY49XJ981Z	1888451068	134181390	Massage	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A sharp, sexy portrayal of inner city &quot;grunge&quot; life	Massage is an incisive, raw, edgy and very gritty novel. Flesh never compromises his characters actions or the sexual relations that exist between them. The novel is full of larger than life, colourful and  controversial characters - gym boys, drag queens etc. all helping paint a  startling picture of life in inner city Manhattan and also helping to  present an incredibly compassionate portrait of the lower east side gay  community. <br />Although at times the dialogue appears stiff and stilted,  don't let this detract you from reading this novel. The issues raised here  are what are important: Flesh raises the question of what constitutes  socially deviant behaviour and the consequences of the casting off of ones  sexual repression. Don't let the sexual explicitness put you off reading  this novel either because the central character Randy takes us on an  interesting journey. We witness his growth and are with him as he battles  the interior demons of his past and comes to term with his situation in  life. <br />Often funny and incredibly heart rendering, Massage is certainly  not the best novel I've read about gay Manhattan and the individual's  voyage of self discovery. However, it is certainly one of the most frank  and honest accounts to be published recently.	2000-01-05
US	50673134	R1FIT0YG12BGEI	0316899984	508044138	River, Cross My Heart: A Novel (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	2	4	6	N	N	a pleasant read, if not a little too saccharine	I liked this novel. However at times I thought it glossed overmany of the serious racial issues of the day. Breena Clarke has a niceeasy relaxed style which lends itself well to the subject matter. River Cross My Heart paints a graceful and profound portrait of life in an entire community in the Georgetown neighborhood of Washington DC, 1925. I liked the portrayal of the closeness of the Afican-American family during this time and the sense of community which is efffectively described. The initial tragedy at the beginning of the novel does not diminish the affectionate eye that Clarke has for small town life. River Cross my Heart is a pleasant if not mediocre read. I feel though that it is certainly not one of the best Oprah Book Club books.	2000-01-04
US	50673134	R1GACZJ0O79QCJ	0679742298	904783689	The Talented Mr. Ripley	Books	5	57	58	N	N	a masterpiece of suspense	I read this novel with a great deal of interest and anticipation and I was not disappointed. What can one say about the &quot;talented&quot; Patricia Highsmith that has not already been said. I loved this novel and I loved  the way that Highsmith, so cleverly and astutely enters into the mind and  tortured psyche of what could now be considered a modern day sociopath.  Even though you know Tom Ripley is bad and what he does to Dickie is wrong,  you really do wish he will get away with it. Tom Ripley is the ultimate  anti-hero: calculatingly cruel yet strangely vulnerable. The author does a  dashing job in conveying Tom's fears, longings,  desires and  upsets.<br />Onother highlight of the novel is its fabulous settings: Southern  Italy has never looked so beautiful along with Venice, Cannes, and Paris.  This novel makes for an extremely exotic, fascinating read and it also  works as a wonderful portrait of a figure who has strangely removed himself  from others and from society. Patricia Highsmith manages to embody the  spirit of Italy while at the same time writing a terrific suspense  thriller.<br />Michael Leonard	1999-12-21
US	50673134	R1GL92JC4M9DRE	0879518928	38115164	Where the Rainbow Ends	Books	5	7	8	N	N	a heart rendering treatis on the age of AIDS	I loved this book! epic and breathtaking in scope with an easy relaxed, fluent style; this book takes you on an incredible &quot;gay odyssey&quot; I have never read a novel that so effectively encompasses all aspects of  gay life and sensibilities. Sexy, romantic, sad and melancholy; this book  takes us on a wonderful journey as we navigate the highs and lows of  Robbie, a young gay &quot;everyman&quot;. Through his eyes we witness the  sexy hedonism of the Manhattan gay scene in the late 70's, the AIDS ravaged  Reagan years of the early to mid 80's and the 90's AIDS activism of LA.  Effectively incorporating historical fact with fiction, Currier has painted  a fascinating portrait of Robbie and his four friends; their loves, losses,  achievements and disappointments. Thematically there are many, many  important issues relating to gay life and the homosexual identity being  addressed here: questions of faith, religion, and spirituality and whether  these can apply to a modern gay man. The importance of family; Currier  raises the essential question, What constitutes a family? Is family by  blood or is true family friendship? Issues regarding contemporary sexual  politics are also discussed particularly the politics of AIDS activism and  the attitudes that big business and government had towards the disease in  the late 80's and early 90's. This is a beautiful, eloquent, sexy and at  times a disturbing chronicle of the ravages of AIDS and the impact that the  disease has had on a whole generation od gay men. Currier gives us an  uncanny insight in to the mind of Robbie never compromising the gritty  realism, this novel tells it like it is. I would recommend this novel as  essential reading not just for every gay men but for anyone who has ever  has been touched by AIDS or who has had to struggle against  adversity.<br />Michael Leonard	1999-12-11
US	50673134	R2EQA2KGEDFMY6	0060194197	359674409	Hitler's Niece: A Novel	Books	2	4	17	N	N	An interesting blend of fact and fiction	I am extremely disappointed in this book as I did not think it lived up to the hype surrounding it. Hitler's Neice failed to involve me although parts of it were engaging. Perhaps this has something to do with the lack of  dramatic build up of tension. The novel is far too episodic, the structure  resembling a series of realistc, factual journal and newspaper accounts of  Angelika, Adolf, their family and his Nazi cronies. The problem is also  Hansen's lack of a sophisticated writing style; the dialogue seeming forced  and stilted. Hansen doesn't seem prepared to really plumb the depths of the  characters' personalities. He skims the surface of Goebles and Himmler  never offering an indepth  analysis of the psyches of them. His portrayal  of the most hated man of the century is indeed astute and intelligent and  there is an insight provided into his anti semetic views. However this does  not make up for the endless paragraphs of inept dialog  and pointless  individual description. So read Hitler's Neice if you want as an  interesting historical treatis on Nazi Germany and the rise of National  Socialism. However, it is inadequate as a serious work of literary  fiction.<br />Michael Leonard	1999-12-11
US	50673134	R2AY7G4Z6R2YCS	0684855895	794686807	JUMPING THE GREEN: A Novel	Books	4	6	9	N	N	A hip, sexy, erotic read	I loved this book!  Leslie Schwartz in her first novel Jumping the Green paints a smart, eloquent yet racy and sexy portrayal of the inner termoil and torment of a troubled young woman, Louise Goldblum. Full of modern,  urban and adult themes, Jumping the Green tells of Louise; her confusion  and angst over the sudden and horrific death of her big sister and her  subsequent fall into a self destructive, highly charged erotic relationship  with the equally tormented Zeke. <br />Combining the past with the present in  a unique structure, two stories parallel each other and come to a  shattering climax as Louise comes to terms with Esther's violent and  unexplained death. My only critisism is that the obsessiveness that Louise  had with her sister may be carried too far towards the end of the novel.  <br />Ostensibly though, Jumping the Green is a fine piece of work and  contains some thoroughly beautiful images - the wind swept streets of San  Fransisco and the calm but sinister beauty of the lake where the Goldblum  family played while growing up. Leslie Schwartz should be commended for  creating easily identifiable, memorable characters - the dependable, honest  best friend Alice, Mrs Goldblum; the boozy,cynical, pill addicted mother of  Louise and the,tormented,sexually driven Zeke who also hides his own  ghosts.<br />This novel is very &quot;today&quot;. Smart, hip,groovy and very  sexy. Schwartz demonstrates an inate  knowledge of the SF Bay Area art  scene and a keen sense of the SF urban chic. She also has a keen eye for  detail. I am eagerly awaiting her next novel.<br />Michael Leonard	1999-11-30
