US	50678198	ROYENV7JPMWOE	0399145990	217600181	The River King	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Flow of Love	In The River King, a mixture of mystery, magic and love, creates a juicy story that is hard to put down. From the rather run down, but prestigious, New England prep school to the characters from the town, Alice Hoffman has woven a web of intrigue and mystique that will whet the appetite of almost any reader. The story starts off slowly with descriptions of the small Massachuttes town and its local characters interwoven with the lives and lies of several students at the private school.<BR> Two students stand out for their very differences from the preppy and priviledged elite who are the norm at Haddon School. Carlin, a scholarship girl from Florida befriends Gus, a loner from New York and together, at least for a while, they struggle to find their place. Tragedy strikes and the world changes for them both. Amid fear, guilt and suspicion, the plot unravels with unexpected twists and turns. Crimes are committed and retribution is nearly made while some suffer and others rebound.<BR> The adult love story that intertwines the student story is not quite as interesting but comes out well in the end. The most fascinating element of the novel lies in its magical realism. Roses exude strong fragrances in mid-winter when no rose could bloom. Live fish and river rocks turn up in a dripping raincoat months after it comes out of the water. Phantom figures appear in photographs and shades lurk in shadows. Legend mixes with reality to reveal what lies beneath the surface. <BR> I could hardly put this book down, reading it almost in one setting. But it's not sensational; it is pure with motives uncovered and truths revealed.	2002-08-28
US	50678198	R31FYL36FNIZD6	0142000205	497257633	Icy Sparks (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Icy's Sparks	Icy Sparks, title character and charming little girl, will win your heart. She is bright and beautiful with &quot;hair the color of goldenrod&quot; and eyes of &quot;yellow ochre,&quot; but she has a secret that all too soon is revealed to the public and not only peers but adults alike fear her. She has Tourette Syndrome, but in the 1950's, it was undiagnosed and she found no relief until her 20's.<BR> Icy lives with her adoring grandparents in a small Kentucky mountain town. The book is full of folk wisdom and lovely description of flowers and the natural beauty of the area. Characters are well-drawn allowing the reader to attain an intimacy with them that is seldom found. A stay at the state mental hospital reveals characters so despicable that they are almost Dickensian in character, making the reader empathize with Icy all the more.<BR> A sojourn at the end into the various churches of the town and their characteristics lends humor and authenticity to Icy's emergence from fear and shame into a world where she knows she will survive. Her lovely &quot;voice like an angel&quot; gives her confidence and the courage to know that she will make it.<BR> All in all, this is a lovely book with wisdom and lessons for living. Icy's insights are both wise beyond her years and charming in their innocence. Despite some rather wordy passages that could have been shortened, this is a very good read.	2002-08-27
US	50678198	R3QB5BMEVYA5PM	0142000205	497257633	Icy Sparks (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Icy's Sparks	Icy Sparks, title character and charming little girl, will win your heart. She is bright and beautiful with &quot;hair the color of goldenrod&quot; and eyes of &quot;yellow ochre,&quot; but she has a secret that all too soon is revealed to the public and not only peers but adults alike fear her. She has Tourette Syndrome, but in the 1950's, it was undiagnosed and she found no relief until her 20's.<BR> Icy lives with her adoring grandparents in a small Kentucky mountain town. The book is full of folk wisdom and lovely description of flowers and the natural beauty of the area. Characters are well-drawn allowing the reader to attain an intimacy with them that is seldom found. A stay at the state mental hospital reveals characters so despicable that they are almost Dickensian in character, making the reader empathize with Icy all the more.<BR> A sojourn at the end into the various churches of the town and their characteristics lends humor and authenticity to Icy's emergence from fear and shame into a world where she knows she will survive. Her lovely &quot;voice like an angel&quot; gives her confidence and the courage to know that she will make it. The only part that did not ring true to me was all the carrying on at the end with the pentacostal stuff. It seemed totally out of character for both the grandmother and Miss Emily to fall prey to such sensationalism and perfectly on point for Icy to refuse it.<BR> All in all, this is a lovely book with wisdom and lessons for living. Icy's insights are both wise beyond her years and charming in their innocence. Despite some rather wordy passages that could have been shortened, this is a very good read.	2002-08-27
US	50678198	R3W55N65V5IA7A	0743237188	434448992	Fall On Your Knees (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	No One Can Hide	all on Your Knees leaves the reader breathless as it becomes more and more convoluted with every page, and characters delude both themselves, each other and us.  What begins as a typical historical novel set on Cape Breton Island, Nova Scotia leads the reader on a journey of horrors and tragedies unspoken that make the definition of disfunctional seem  to have originated right there.<BR> The novel begins with the marriage of James, an eighteen year old of Scottish descent to Materia, the thirteen year old Lebanese daughter of one of the town's most respected and wealthy families; they ran away in the night scandalizing her family which ultimately resulted in her banishment for life from those she loved most. Woven into the story is the love of and talent for music that passes through generations and influences the lives of each character. Along with music is the strong arm of the Catholic Church which induces guilt and the accompanying sickness of unjustified penance and self-righteousness. Together these themes weave a tale not unlike the gothic aura of Faulkner at his best with incest, misegenation, abuse and homosexuality.<BR> However, these elements are not really what permeate the novel because the truth unfolds slowly and torturously, keeping the reader in suspense,  all the time luring  you in and then returning with another shocking event. The end reveals the destruction of lives that could have had incredible promise but for the wrongs, the misplaced passions and the hidden truths. Despite all this, love is basically what drives the entire novel, perhaps not conventional love, but love that is contrasted with what should be and might have been. All in all, this is a book of great depth and storytelling, one in which the characters will remain alive for all who read it.	2002-08-23
US	50678198	R121X0TMS7L31I	0060988258	551668212	Running in Heels: A Novel	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Youthful Disfunction	Running in Heels is another story of twenty-somethings in London who, despite various disfunctions, end up on a  fairly even keel. Although not as good as Getting Over It, Running In Heels has its share of laughs and endearing characters. It's easy to sympathize with Natalie--anorexic, nervous and insecure--and to admire her best friend Babs--just married, fire fighter and perpetual optimist.<BR> The family dynamics and disfunctions that seem to create such problems sort themselves out, leaving the characters to continue their lives the best they can. The book ends on a note of optimism in almost every way with the added benefit of a plug for Pilates as a life-changing exercise program.<BR> One drawback for non-British readers is the constant use of British slang. Some are easy to catch, but others are a bit more nebulous. Overall, that does not affect the storyline and certainly gives it an authenticity that would otherwise be missing. This is a quick read with a few laughs and several underlying truths that are relevant to most of us.	2002-08-19
US	50678198	R1MVG7RSEL1SX9	0804114986	745329531	The Bonesetter's Daughter	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Mother-Daughter Conflict-Love	Amy Tan has done it again with The Bonesetter's Daughter. Not only do we have intriguing story of China in the days before and after the revolution, but we also have an age-old story of the tension between mothers and daughters that is so difficult to define and so easy to identify with. Ruth Young and her mother, LuLing, have a tortured but magnetic relationship, a bond that involves superstitions, ghosts and criticisms that come close to destroying Ruth both as a child and as an adult. Her mother's daily fear of the ghost of her mother, who influences her entire life with barely hidden guilt, permeates Ruth's life too.<BR> As a child, Ruth learned to survive her mother's vicious attacks by communicating with Precious Auntie, her mother's mother, by writing on a sand table for her mother. It is only when LuLing is old that Ruth learns the truth about her mother's life, what tragedies she endured, what courage she had, and how very much she loves Ruth.<BR> Besides being a good story about mothers and daughters, The Bonesetter's Daughter tells about the relationships between different cultures and the richness that comes from sharing those lives. From Chinese food, dragon bones and the importance of ancestors, to the ideas that begin to erode ancient Chinese thought and custom, this is a good read, one that will leave the reader feeling good and satisfied.	2002-08-19
US	50678198	R3AFC23P5ZTASR	0804114986	745329531	The Bonesetter's Daughter	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Mothers and Daughters	Amy Tan has done it again with The Bonesetter's Daughter. Not only do we have intriguing story of China in the days before and after the revolution, but we also have an age-old story of the tension between mothers and daughters that is so difficult to define and so easy to identify with. Ruth Young and her mother, LuLing, have a tortured but magnetic relationship, a bond that involves superstitions, ghosts and criticisms that come close to destroying Ruth both as a child and as an adult. Her mother's daily fear of the ghost of her mother, who influences her entire life with barely hidden guilt, permeates Ruth's life too.<BR> As a child, Ruth learned to survive her mother's vicious attacks by communicating with Precious Auntie, her mother's mother, by writing on a sand table for her mother. It is only when LuLing is old that Ruth learns the truth about her mother's life, what tragedies she endured, what courage she had, and how very much she loves Ruth.<BR> Besides being a good story about mothers and daughters, The Bonesetter's Daughter tells about the relationships between different cultures and the richness that comes from sharing those lives. From Chinese food, dragon bones and the importance of ancestors, to the ideas that begin to erode ancient Chinese thought and custom, this is a good read, one that will leave the reader feeling good and satisfied.	2002-08-17
US	50678198	R1IQCMAUTIQWPS	1551668998	628566923	The Beach House	Books	3	22	26	N	N	Coming Home	The Beach House, by Mary Alice Monroe, is a story about family and the strangled relationships that often exist within them. Mother and daughter, Olivia and Caretta Rutledge, are from upper crust Charleston, live in an old mansion, have a beach house on the Isle of Palms, and for all appearances, have charmed lives. However, underneath all the glamour lies a history of anger, repression, and violence. That the two women chose totally different ways to cope with the disfunction in their family wrenches them apart for twenty years and it is only when Olivia is old and dying, that Cara forces herself to return.<BR> Caretta, a successful and self-made business woman in Chicago, comes home to visit at the beach house on the Isle of Palms and finds what her previous life has been missing: love, affection, trust, companionship, family. In only a short summer, she forms a new family with her mother, a young pregnant teenager and the Turtle Team, a group who monitors and protects Loggerhead Sea Turtle nests. Her hesitance at first grows into wonder as she observes her first nest of hatchlings in the South Carolina moonlight.<BR> There is also a romantic element that is good enough to make you happy for the couple and hope for their future. In the end, a hurricane swipes the island and forces the realization of just how much it all means. <BR> This is not a deep or philosophical book but the story of human contact and the need for love and understanding make for a good read. The turtle storyline is informative and interesting as well as consciousness raising. A good book for mothers and daughters whose relationships need work and a perfect one for reading on the beach.	2002-08-06
US	50678198	RWLO83N8INWL3	0385502761	841891973	Look at Me	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Who Are We?	Look at Me by Jennifer Egan is an interesting book with a thesis that more or less pertains to every person. Are we what we pretend to be? Who can really answer that question, and even if we could, would we be honest, even to ourselves? This book is about the lies we tell as we go about our daily lives; perhaps it would be more honest to say our daily &quot;lies.&quot; The point is who is really honest, who can say they lead open transparent lives giving of themselves fully to all they meet?<BR> To begin with, no one actually can fully know another person. There is that &quot;shadow&quot; self, that the main character, Charlotte,seeks when she meets someone new, and if the shadow doesn't reveal itself, she is more than suspect for Charlotte is the consummate liar. In fact, her whole life is a lie, especially after a terrible accident that crushes her face. That she is a fashion model adds another dimension to the multi-layered plot that evolves. <BR> Not only is Charlotte not what she pretends to be, neither is anyone else, from the teenagers in her home town to the stranger she meets and transports half across the country. Z is the epitome of the shadow, for he is nothing but a shadow, lurking, spying, blending and melting into each new identity. The crossing of all these lies and lives is what makes the plot with each character revealing himself to varying degrees. Thematically, this is a very interesting book because it reveals what lies underneath the veneer of everyone's lives, however thick or thin.	2002-08-02
US	50678198	RLPLTU0YD9XDU	140003065X	366389334	A Fine Balance	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Circus of Humanity	Knowing where to start is just the first problem in trying to describe or review this book. It covers the entire scope of the human condition, sparing no detail of horror or despicable behavior. Set in mid-1900's India, A Fine Balance details the political and social upheaval of an India beset with corruption, evil and unspeakable crimes against humanity, not to mention the abuses of the caste system and the indignities those of lower castes were forced to endure. In a country where begging is a profession from generation to generation, and children are stolen and deformed in order to become beggars, and where local officials build shanty towns for thousands without sanitation or fresh water and charge them outrageous prices, it is a wonder that anything productive or positive ever occurs.<BR> What saves this novel from utter despair are the four characters, vastly different, who come together out of chance and necessity and discover that caste and position are unimportant; it is the human spirit that triumphs and makes sense of the world. When the tailors, Ishvar and Om meet Dina Dalal and college boy, Maneck, they form a family such as none of them has ever known. With each incredible adventure that befalls Ishvar and Om, the four of them come closer together until a final disaster tears their fragile family apart forever. <BR> The desperate finality than ends the book is shocking and heartbreaking--and mostly unexpected. This fine book is thought provoking and serious as it takes the reader through the gamut of human despair and emotion, leaving one blank and empty at first, then filled again with the richness that lies underneath.	2002-07-29
US	50678198	R2426O4DYDN99J	0764222171	443468059	Legend of the Celtic Stone (Caledonia Series, Book 1)	Books	3	8	14	N	N	Bravo Caledonia	On the historical novel scale, this one is pretty good for its information although it is no Michener in its historical accuracy. It is somewhat disconcerting to read detailed stories of ancient people who are completely made up, but the spirit of the ancient Celts who settled present day Scotland permeates the novel. Another fault is the perspective that all Druid practices were evil and satanic which smacks of fundamental Christian prejudice and intolerance, when in fact, the Roman Catholic Church was successful in such places by incorporating the good in pagan religions with Christian beliefs.<BR> The modern story of a North England MP entranced with his Scottish roots is well done even though the theft of the Stone of Scone by Irish Druids is a bit far fetched and barely resolved thematically. Characterization is strong and empathy is developed for the characters. <BR> There is much beautiful description of the Scottish landscape, especially in the historic chapters which flip from various ancient periods in non-chronological order; however, at least a third is repetitious and should have been left out. Despite the negative comments, the book as a whole gives a good if not totally historical account of Scotland's beginnings and what causes the modern Scot to have such fierce pride in his heritage.	2002-07-23
US	50678198	R2DN6R1D121814	044900483X	641199639	Children of God (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	All God's Children	Children of God continues the saga of Father Emilio Sandoz as he struggles to conquer the demons that torture and haunt him following his first trip to Rakhat. When he seemingly finds happiness and a measure of peace of mind, he is brutally snatched up against his will and returned to the scene of former heinous acts. Plunged once more into a sea of betrayal by those he trusted most, Sandoz once again finds himself in an abyss of physical and spiritual despair as he soars again through time and space to another adventure among an alien world.<BR> Rakhat, however, is not so alien this time, regardless of the terrors its memory conjures up, and as Sandoz is reunited with Sophia Mendes, he learns acceptance and resolution for himself. In the process of absorbing the changes that have occurred in his absence of forty years, he learns that forgiveness is indeed within his reach as well as absolution for the sins he blames himself for.<BR> In addition to Sandoz's story, the changing social history of Rakhat and its peoples is interesting and exciting as it presents a drastic and violent change in philosophy and ethics. New characters step into strong roles that catch our imagination and spark empathy with both sides.<BR> All in all, Children of God is an excellent sequel to The Sparrow, although it still calls for more when it ends. Again, Mary Doria Russell has woven a spell of magic and wonder worthy of ancient and modern spiritual thought as she has raised the consciousness of all her readers about their own spiritual health and well being.	2002-07-21
US	50678198	RQ5GIS9JCO6JX	0374129983	647099960	The Corrections	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Who Needs Correcting?	The Corrections is indeed a powerful novel of family, relationships, disfunction, and discontent. There is also humor, if sometimes, black humor, and there are realistic situations that almost any family can identify with. Is it a good read? Yes and no. On many levels, The Corrections makes us think about our lives and the individual family relationships that haunt and please every family. The characters focus blame on each other and on family dynamics, and take sides for and against each other in a complicated and often sad set of situations that each is hard put to escape.<BR>Brother Gary is the methodical and practical achiever who views the shortcomings of his siblings and parents with a critical eye that reveals his assumed superiority as well as his fear of dealing with any of their problems, not to mention his own. Chip, the more loveable middle child, banks on his intelligence to get him through in a career that has not been successful, but who in the end, becomes the rock for the others. And Denise, the only sister, who tries to do the right things, seems to constantly mess up her personal life.<BR>Add to this, Enid and Albert, aging parents who have years of unhappy history and blame against each other as well as against their children. It is Enid who feels that &quot;corrections&quot; are in order, mainly for poor ailing Albert, but also for each child who has brought various disappointments and embarrassments to her life.<BR>This is not a happy book or even one that has a redemptive ending. There is really no reconciling or healing among the family members who continue their lives on more or less the same plane with no hope or evidence that they will ever change.	2002-02-08
US	50678198	R3QPWW5NQESOWD	0449912558	541384114	The Sparrow: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	9	11	N	Y	&quot;Not One Sparrow Can Fall&quot;	The Sparrow is a novel unlike any other I have read.  It is science fiction. science, religion, theology, morality, and adventure all rolled into one.   After the discovery of extraterrestrial music coming through space,  in the year 2021, the Society of Jesus sent a missionary voyage to the planet Rakhat in the Alpha Centuri solar system to spread the word of God and the Catholic Church.  The mission consisted of eight people:  four Jesuit priests, a doctor, an engineer, an astronomer and a computer expert, six men and two women.  This mixture included believers and non-believers whose personalities meshed in interesting and unexpected ways.<BR> Regardless of the sense of adventure and moments of violence and horror,  The Sparrow is basically a story of redemption and the eternal search for God.  Father Emilio Sandoz is the main character through whose eyes is revealed a most remarkable story.  His own struggle with faith, obedience to God, and to his Jesuit vows makes him the architypical searcher for ultimate reality in a world that is often enigmatic and terrifying.  HIs lifelong journey toward faith and belief is at once fulfilling and devastating, and the catharsis he must experience to find redemption is almost beyond human limits.<BR> The novel travels between past and future to reveal the plot and its outcome as the reader becomes acquainted with  characters who gradually seem like close friends.  The final chapter is open ended, suggesting a sequel which the reader wants at once.  The incredible depth of intimacy one feels with the characters along with the soul searching that is personally inevitable, and the suspense that is almost unbearable make The Sparrow a classic in more than one genre.  It is a must for all seekers and soul searchers on their own pilgrimages though life and faith.	2002-01-04
US	50678198	R3TJ0K55S0XQLC	0312195516	226874686	The Red Tent	Books	4	12	15	N	N	In Celebration of Women	How many people have read the Old Testament and wondered what all those characters were really like?   What do we really know of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, not to mention the women who were their wives and daughters, slaves and concubines?  The Red Tent tells the story of those first Old Testament women, of Leah and Rachael, Zilpah and Bilhah, and of Dinah, the narrator, the only daughter of all four sisters, all four the wives of Jacob.  We touch on the story of Jacob and Esau with Jacob stealing Esau's birthright from their father Isaac, and the story of Joseph who was sold into slavery by his jealous brothers and who subsequently became a famous ruler in Egypt.  Those are the stuff of infinite Sunday School lessons that children have learned for centuries.<BR> But who has told the story of the Bible's women?  Not many until Anita Diamant gave us The Red Tent. This is the story of Biblical women's lives and hardships, joys and sorrows, humiliations and triumphs that is not told in theBible.  Set apart from male society almost exclusively except for serving and sex, these brave women spent themselves in lives of hard work, spinning, weaving, grinding grain and making bread, tending gardens and cooking meals that they ate only after the men were served and finished.  <BR> The red tent is the literal and symbolic icon of female society where the women went once a month for three days as the moon goddess visited them; where they were allowed to rest, tell stories, sing and make offerings to their gods of fertility and harvest, of the moon, stars and universe.  The ancient beliefs, traditions and superstitions lived on in the stories that were told each month from mother to daughter in the red tent.<BR> This is also a story of early midwives who aided births and kept women and babies alive with their skills and feminine empathy.  The plot takes us into the land of Canaan with Jacob's family and ultimately to Egypt where Joseph and Dinah reunite after many years.  The heinous deeds perpetrated by the sons of Jacob live in infamy throughout all time, but their victims eventually find redemption and peace.  <BR> The Red Tent has passages that bring tears of recognition to women of all ages;  women share the procreative spark that is theirs alone and which hence, endows them with power and unity that no man can ever be privy to.  What a wonderful book to celebrate the joy and sorrow of being a woman, not to mention the ultimate priviledge!	2002-01-04
US	50678198	R3EJED3IB440G1	0061053104	387426853	The Terminal Experiment	Books	4	5	7	N	Y	Artificial Intelligence--Good or Bad?	The Terminal Experiment proposes some interesting scenarios using artificial intelligence as it seeks to discover two of life's most intriguing questions--when does life actually end, and is there life after death?  Both questions are both pragmatic and theological and can be viewed from more than one perspective.  Dr. Peter Hobson, scientist and dabbler in life energies, discovers that there is a current in the brain that escapes at the moment of death; as he chooses to interpret it, the soul.  Of course, this discovery opens all kinds of discussion from the most scientific to the most extreme religious fundamentalists.  <BR> When he and an old Muslim schoolmate and friend decide to create simulations of his brain to test their theories on the soul, they open a can of worms that cannot be eliminated despite all their high tech prowess.  With three simulations loose on the Internet implementing what they conceive of as Peter's desires, things become frightening and desperate.  <BR> Add to all this Peter's dilemma over his wife's infidelity and you have a futuristic mystery with morals and ethics problems thrown in.  This is a thoroughly entertaining book with lots of future scientific advances mentioned as well as the very real question of what reliable scientists should do with artificial intelligence.  A fast page turner, it is also thought-provoking and intelligent.	2001-12-30
US	50678198	RMGHIZ5SWZ4CA	0802137849	615558519	Sound of One Hand Clapping	Books	2	20	29	N	N	How Dismal Can Tasmania Be?	This novel of Tasmania from the 1950's-1990's is dreary and dismal with characters who are hard to like and even harder to sympathize with. This is the story of European immigrants who came to Tasmania for a better life after the horrors of WWII, only to find themselves further enslaved by the giant corporation that is building a new hydro-electric dam.  Forced to live in dire poverty in company shacks that shake in the roaring wind and relentless rain and snow, the workers and their families can only find solace in friendship and love.  However, many resort to drink, violence, and despair as the only way to forget how horrible their lives really are.  The main characters, Sonja, and her father, Bojan, exemplify the tragedy that occurs for many such people.  Sonja's mother simply walks out of the house one day, never to be seen by Sonja again, and so begins a lifetime of hope and despair for a little girl and then a woman who can't seem to fit together the pieces of her life.  Full of love as well as hate for her father, she struggles alone until she finally leaves home for good.  The redemption that finally comes to her and Bojan is almost too late for the reader who has to drudge through 400 pages of tragedy and woe.  Certainly a sad and desperate story, it is however, not much fun to read.  Even the end is hollow because it is so hard to empathize with such pathetic characters.	2001-08-14
US	50678198	RBJ1MST0PWZK6	067978120X	834025931	Chasing Cezanne: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Treachery and Haute Cuisine--Lots of Fun!	If you like fast-moving and exciting action mixed with jet set characters, haute cuisine, and treachery among the fine art set  in the South of France, then this book is for you.  Peter Mayle has written another fun-filled novel that takes you on a merry ride from New York to the South of France.  Characters include  an honest and fast thinking photographer and his adorable assistant, a devilish magazine editor, and various amusing and interesting characters from a world most of us dont know but are all too glad to visit for a time.  The famous chefs who flavor the novel with mouth-watering menus and taste- tempting dishes  make reading  a savory experience as well as filling the reader with a desire to hop on the first plane to finer eating.  Descriptions of restaurants from out of the way inns in the French countryside to the trendiest in New York City make the book a vicariou culinary experience par excellence.  As for mystery and mayhem, there are fine art thieves and their accomplices, the relentless hit men who do their best to throttle the photographer and his string of good guys.  All in all, this is a book that is fun to read, hard to put down, and that will make you long for sunny vacations with a bit of flare.	2001-08-14
US	50678198	RVS0TMHX09XAH	0679771476	887180857	The Law of Similars	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Good Medicine or Bad?	This fast-moving novel of legal, medical, and ethical dilemas is hard to put down.  The characters come alive as the plot thickens and we become enmeshed in the dramas of their lives.    Leland Fowler, State Attorney and widower with a four-year-old daughter, meets Carissa Lake, a charming and lovely homeopath who not only cures Leland of his long time ills but who also falls in love with him.  Homeopathy, a 200-year-old type of alternative medicine, plays a big part in the story that begins with alternative healing and ends with a unintended death.  The question is whether the death is murder.  What evoloves from that question is the focus of the book as legal ethics and moral compulsions vie for the top spot in both the office of the State Attorney and in the character's own lives.  Definitely a page turner that you can't put down, this novel also sheds light on the field of homeopathy, and its authenticity, as well as on the human heart in all its many manifestations.	2001-08-08
US	50678198	R2LDEVZOUPNJQA	0060393203	956920947	Getting Over It: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Laugh Out Loud but Crying on the Inside	Getting Over It, the story of Helen Bradshaw, late 20's Londoner, whose life slowly begins to crumble after the death of her father, will make you laugh out loud as you share the insights and escapades of Helen and her rowdy friends, while at the same time, it will make you cry as she, little by little, realizes how much her father meant to her.    While Helen tries to deal with her grief-sticken mother and stoic grandmother, she negates her own feelings as she insists that she was just not that close to her father.  Eventually she realizes that somewhere deep inside is a little girl who misses her father as she remembers her childhood and the daddy she adored.  Catharsis is what she needs and finally gets, but it is a long and sad road to find it.  Thanks to good friends and a special man, she does find that release.  Under the hilarious situations that occur and cause laughter is the very serious subject of dealing with a parent's death and  how you actually do get over it.  A lovely Chinese custom helps Helen to find release, but there is food for thought here for all who have lost a parent and especially for those who perhaps need to reevaluate that relationship.  In all, it is a thoughful and insightful book--also loaded with laughs.	2001-08-08
US	50678198	R2EA8YXPJEMHXJ	067976397X	659658614	Corelli's Mandolin: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	The Timeless Nature of Love and War	The ancient beauty of a remote Greek island is contrasted with the daily reality of Nazi and Fascist occupation during WWII as both the citizens of the island and the soldiers who are stationed there strive to achieve some manner of normality in the face of worldwide horror and destruction.  The inevitable mixing of Greek, German, and Italian people reflects the human side of war, but the conflicting ideologies ultimately bring disaster more frightening than could be imagined.  Against the backdrop of interweaving politics and philosophies, is woven the stories of local villagers whose lives become real as they illustrate that different opinions and factions can exist in harmony without drastic action being taken.  The very &quot;Greekness&quot; of their actions--the reflection of centuries of philosophical discourse, not to mention the birth place of western thought--is what gives them strength and courage to resist the morally ignorant forces that occupy their island.  Perhaps the best part of the book, however, is the love story of Pelagia and Antonio and the wit and joy that exists in their relationship.  Pelagia's father, Doctor Iannis is the true heart of the book as he discourses and writes about the history of his island and the nature of mankind in general.  Through his humanity, he takes the Italian captain as the son he never had as he relishes the spirit and enthusiasm that they both share.  Ultimately, through tears and laughter, the novel takes us through WWII and to the present where retrospection is often the only way to continue while at the same time, looking ahead is what has saved them all from the catastrophes of history.	2001-08-07
US	50678198	R2M3B10OPDMR17	0385335121	870989999	Tara Road: Oprah Selection #26	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Another Set of Good Irish Friends	Maeve Binchey has created another set of unforgetable characters in whose lives the reader quickly becomes engrossed, almost as though we lived on Tara Road also.  Set in modern day Dublin, the novel features a cast of interesting people whose lives intertwine in various ways, some loving and others deceiving and heartbreaking.  From grandmothers to children, each character reveals both themselves and their perspective of the world.    The book deals with difficult modern problems from drug and alcohol addiction to adultery, as they affect the individual characters and those around them.  The ability to present numerous philosophies and to represent Irish culture at the same time is a triumph of storytelling.  As the reader traverses the highs and lows of modern society with the characters, he comes to understand and appreciate how hard it is to simply live day to day, to try to find peace and happiness in life and to also realize that everything does not always turn out for the best.  As always, upon completion of a Binchey book, you long to know what happens next, to follow the characters and hope things will work out.  This set of characters will stay in your mind and heart as will the warmth and caring that seems to stem from Irish society	2001-08-02
US	50678198	R2OZAIKL0G8P7I	037540600X	68389017	Horse Heaven	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	Horse Heaven ad Infinitum	If you are a dyed-in-the-wool horse lover, this is probably the book for you, as it goes into infinite detail about the training, breeding, care, and running of racing thoroughbreds, not to mention the multi-faceted work and social world of high stakes racing.  However, the number of characters and personal situations is almost overwhelming.  It is difficult to keep track, even by the end of the book, of the different sets of characters and their horses.  Some characters introduced at the beginning of the book, such as Skippy and Mary Lynn Hollister, are more or less neglected or dropped, while others, such as Curtis Doheny, come in at the end with almost no purpose but to add endless lines of introspection and speculation.  On the other hand, there are certain characters with such charm and appeal that the reader is quickly caught up in their stories.  One very appealing aspect of the book is the detailed description of the actual horses and their personalities.  The intelligence,  charm, and distinctive differences in horses is an interesting facet of the book.  In addition, there is a horse communicator; a woman who actually claims to be able to read a horse's mind and share information.  Through this aspect of the book, one learns to appreciate how very intelligent and sensitive horses can be, and along these lines it is easy to understand the passion that many people have for horses.	2001-07-24
US	50678198	RG4SSYQTORZOG	0553107755	403168550	Fierce Invalids Home from Hot Climates	Books	5	0	2	N	Y	Another tour d'force for Robbins!	What is it about Tom Robbins's writing that draws us fans back over and over?  Is it the never-ending string of similes and metaphors, the constantly outrageous and often offending picaresque adventures, or is it the social commentary that stings deeply into our consciousness?  Needless to say, it is all three and more.  As usual, when I discovered a new Robbins book, I got excited and could hardly wait to begin, and this new one is certainly no disappointment.  With our new hero(anti-hero?), Switters, we move into a new domain of the absurd combined with the all too real.  Switters says and often does what most people seldom dare.  The fact that he is a CIA operative makes his viewpoint more seemingly dangerous for its possible verity.  And what do a shaman's curse, a lusty nun, and the breakdown of worldwide ethics have in common?  Well, that is what you will perhaps find out when you read the book, and even if you don't, you will be assaulted with enough laughs to last a while not to mention enough food for thought for a lifetime.	2001-07-23
US	50678198	R1ZZ6D9ODMPMCY	0679442405	860500413	Traveling Mercies: Some Thoughts on Faith	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Spirituality for the Non-Religious	What a lovely book of revelation, personal quest, and spiritual fulfillment!  Anne Lamott takes the reader along on a personal journey that is both difficult and heartbreaking, but which rings with the realization that there is life after no-matter-what-kind of previous life you might have had. We travel her road of addiction and grief as she searches for the right path in her life, while at the same time we become involved and caring in her life.  When she stumbles into a community church after years of denying the need for religion, not to mention Christianity, she finds the home that she didn't even realize she needed.  Her subsequent acceptance of Christ as her savior is as much surprise as it is revelation, and it becomes a life-changing event.  Not only can she fight, and defeat, her addiction, she can also pray with her son whenever life affords a problem that seems insurmountable.  But this is not a schmaltzy touchy-feely book of fundamentalist dogma.  It is truly a blessing, both for the author and for the reader.  The simple acceptance of God and His healing power along with the love and comfort of a supportive community illustrate the changes that can occur when one is ready to surrender to a higher power.  It ends too soon and one longs for &quot;the rest of the story.&quot;  Let's all hope that Anne Lamott will continue the saga of her spiritual journey.	2001-07-23
US	50678198	R3OX3JL6XXK7CB	0375727345	498826779	House of Sand and Fog (Oprah's Book Club)  (Vintage Contemporaries)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Fate Takes Control	House of Sand and Fog by  Andre Dubus III<br /> Sometimes in life certain situations are set into motion and the inevitability of fate pushes events into otherwise unheard of tragedies.  Such is the case in House of Sand and Fog.  When Kathy Nicolo is mistakenly evicted from her house by the county, and it is subsequently bought at auction by Iranian immigrant Colonel Behrani, both are thrust into a marathon of anguish that eventually destroys both their lives.  Add Deputy Sheriff Lester Burden to the mix and you get not only a love story full of passion, but also the destruction of another family and extremes of lawlessness than surprise even the most jaded suspense reader.    The conflict of cultures is another theme that is woven throughout the novel.  Colonel Behrani was a high-ranking officer in the Shah's government before the revolution in Iran whose family lived in luxury, but who was ultimately forced to flee Iran or else risk slaughter by the new regime's fundamentalist soldiers.  After living in Europe for a time, the Behrani's immigrated to the United States where the Colonel was forced to work at menial jobs which he considered beneath himself to be able to support his family.  The contrast of cultures is evident in Berhani's wife, who longs for her country and family , and his handsome teenage son who speaks perfect English and lives to ride his skateboard.  The colonel's shame and humiliation at his family's downfall plays a great part in his desire to hang on to the cottage despite the obvious moral conflict of living in a house obtained dishonestly.  As for Kathy, the apparent victim, we find a not altogether likeable character for whom it is hard to find much sympathy except the basic indignation against a government agency which refuses to admit they were wrong.  All through the novel it is hard not to think what tragedy could have been avoided if the county had not made such a huge error.  But that is where Fate comes in, as it does in real life,and the reader is shown in all too graphic description what can happen to a person when it seems that everything has been taken away.    This is an interesting and compelling book not only for the suspenseful story but also for the moral implications that it reveals.  Do cultural norms really make such a difference in one's perception of what is right and wrong, or is basic human nature the same all over the world?  These are questions that are not answered, and don't need to be answered, in this book, but they are questions that you will ask after you read it.	2001-05-06
US	50678198	R1DYPJH82L0ADI	0684844826	454180310	Salt Dancers	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Searching for the Other Half	The search for one's mother never stops, even when your mother is always with  you,(for who can ever really know their mother) but when she just one day disappears, the heartbreak and longing that follow are incomparable. When Julia was only nine years old, her mother just vanished, never to return.  She and her brother, Travis, were left with a father who loved them, but also drank too much and occasionally, took out his despair on Julia in the form of beatings and rage.  Although she left as soon as life would permit, she was forever filled with the hate left from those years and the abuse she sustained from her father and her brother's lack of help.  When she returns at age 41, pregnant, her thoughts are full of what kind of mother she will be as she encounters her father, now old and slow, for the first time in twenty years.  Memories come and go, but slowly she realizes that some of those memories are good.  The universal fact that all people are selective in their memories is reflected in Julia's realization that her childhood was not all bad, and that her father's selective memory had blocked out all those times of anger and rage against her until he had simply lost them.  This is a novel of redemption, not only for Julia but for her brother as well.  That her father is somewhat redeemed in her mind and the realization that she does love him are in fact, the anchoring point of the novel.  The reclamation of their mother is a secondary and restoring event that brings the lives of brother and sister--and mother--to welcome fruition and peace.  Julia finds as she leaves her mother, that she can be a good mother herself as she treasures the hope that her own mother will be part of her future life.  Ultimately a life affirming book, Salt Dancers examines family and personal issues that haunt many people and it forces the reader to reevaluate their own memories.	2001-04-21
US	50678198	R3SFB39L4Z99Y0	0316781010	155429542	Fortune's Rocks: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Passion Overcomes Morality in Turn of Century Tale	Anita Shreve takes a step into the past with this book which begins in 1899 and follows the life of Olympia Biddeford, a privileged young girl from the Boston society world.  Educated by a doting, cultured, and scholarly father, Olympia is intelligent and sophisticated beyond her years; however, when she meets a friend of her father's, Dr. John Haskell, she is already primed, at 15, to enter the idealistic and free-thinking world of Dr. Haskell who has written a book of essays detailing the horrors of factory life in New England.  Besides his mind, Olympia forms an immediated physical, if idealistic attachment to the doctor which is reciprocated despite his apparently successful marriage and children.     What follows is a passionate and ultimately scandalous love affair that predictably nearly ruins them both.  There is plenty of suspense in the novel despite the somewhat cliched scenes that necessarliy occur.  One wishes for their love to be unsuspect while at the same time wondering in near disbelief at the Victorian moral code that seems to rule their every move.  It takes a while to get past the antiquated societal strictures, but eventually, one finds that this is a love story with all the passion and steam of a modern novel yet with the ever-restricting problems of &quot;what people will think.&quot;  Overall, it is well written with lovely descriptions of seaside New England as well as the triumph of what is really moral--not just what people think and what society says.	2001-04-21
US	50678198	R18R3JDX8I5BPN	0679463046	79158641	Ghostwritten: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Mystery of Life?	What an amazing first novel!  Nine interconnected stories that leave the reader wondering how, when, and why.  The characters who populate David Mitchell's novel are both diverse and similar.  Each is searching, some up close, some within, one in other bodies.  Each character whether young or old or in which century tries to relate to the world around him with respect to the universal longing to belong somewhere and to someone.  From the young lovers to an old peasant woman who runs a tea shop to a disembodied soul who inhabits bodies at random, all of them want the same thing.  The plot of each story is somehow connected if only marginally in some cases, but the vastness and smallness of the universe is called up in each instance.  The nighttime radio show host who invokes outrageous callers and ultimately invokes the one who may--or may not be--calling the shots for infinity.    The only real disappointment is that you expect  all the characters to come together somehow in the end and that just does not happen.  The end leaves you wondering what the book, and life, is all about which is apparently the theme of the book.  Despite a few flaws, this is a thoughtful and interesting book.  Many passages call out for underlining and rereading;  and the next question is:  what will David Mitchell write next??!	2001-04-04
US	50678198	R1TR2SWEUTWAGG	0385496761	124498499	Peel My Love Like an Onion	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Carmen de las Alas	Carmen la Coja soars through her life like a bird with giant wings, refusing to relent in the face of incredible obstacles, and still manages to be brilliant and sexy and desired.  In the Flamenco world, Carmen is a symbol of grace and beauty, of amazing passes and fluid movements, and as a part of this world, even though she is not &quot;gitana&quot; she delves into that world as if she is a native.  A polio-crippled Mexican-American from Chicago, Carmen faces life with spunk and a fearless sense of fate that carries her through passionate love affairs with two dazzling Gypsy dancers whose own bond of filial honor results in her desertion and eventual reclamation, albeit after is is too late.   That Carmen triumphs at last in the Flamenco world is a tribute to her luck as well as to her devotion and faithfulness to her old friends and family.  That she struggles on despite physical debilities that would stymy many others brings her the success that she has long deserved, as well as the fulfillment of her dreams and longings for security and love.  This is an exciting novel, full of love and lust, magic and mystique.  A must read!!	2001-04-03
US	50678198	RRGEWUVGVAGBM	0375503900	125750717	What a Woman Must Do	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Three Women in Search of Life	This book takes you back to Depression Minnesota and draws you into a family tragedy that encompasses three women who struggle to live together and to escape the places that fate has placed them in.  Kate, the great aunt, who raises her niece's child  after a tragic automobile accident takes Bess's parents, does her best for Bess who loves her aunt and clings to her for security and love.  Harriet, the middle aged cousin who comes to live with them and serves as Bess's mother dreams of a life and family of her own although Bess is like a daughter to her.  Suddenly in the midst of a small town life of stability and order, all three women are thrown into turmoil because of new relationships that occur toward the end of summer one year.  Harriet is courted by a kind and dance loving farmer with several children to raise on his own.  Bess is thrown with a handsome young man who seeks her out for his own pleasure, and despite her knowledge of his wife and children, finds it hard to resist him.  At the same time, Kate is dreaming of her life with her late husband and the farm they both loved and lost in the Depression.   Fate brings all these elements to a conclusion that is at once tragic and life affirming. Harriet realizes how much love she has always had to give and is at last free to do so while Bess, reluctant to leave the security of the only home she has ever known  not to mention the forbidden fruit that she must forego, is mature enough to recognize that her path is elsewhere for the time being.  This is a pleasant book that reveals how normal lives can be exceptional and how even the most ordinary people find happiness and fulfillment in life.	2001-04-03
US	50678198	R71O0Y6I9LYZO	0385502532	903040762	Drowning Ruth: A Novel (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	0	1	N	Y	Drwon the Reader	While I found it hard to keep reading and even to finish this book, after I did finish it, it seemed to have more worth.  Although it is so very depressing, not only because of the time period and place but also because I just cound not identity at all with the characters, when it was over, I wondered what had really happened.  Did Amanda kill her sister or was it an accident?  And why had she never  connected again with the father of her child?  There are many unanswered questions in the book, not to mention the confusing change of point of view.    The setting also contributes to the bleakness of the plot as it is really hard to warm  up to rural Wisconsin winters and scarcely better summers.  The drugery of the farm seems far removed from any pleasant aspect of nature or any other realm of the natural world.  The island itself seemed almost a symbol of evil despite the feeling that is should have been a place of love and comfort.  Perhaps the regional nature of this book just does not feel right to readers from other areas.  Also for many, the time after WWI is pretty far removed from consciousness and reality.	2001-04-03
US	50678198	R6NJBU2E43DAM	0374293414	333681334	The Years with Laura Daz	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Love, Politics, and Life in a Century of Mexico	Carlos Fuentes takes us on a sweeping journey of the 20th century as he reveals the history, culture, and political life of Mexico and the world.   Fuentes draws on his own family history to weave a tale of  love and tragedy and of extraordinary people whose lives and work influenced their times.  Laura Diaz, the heroine both normal and unusual in her roles as wife and mother--lover and artist, waltzes through the years with grace and vitality.  Her honesty and common sense approach to life make her an example for the many lives that she touches.  She married a dashing young man in the labor movement andwas thrown into the political mainstream that coursed through Mexico City in the early part of the century.  She also was the lover of more than one dashing and famous man as she joined the high life of Spanish-European society that existed in Mexico City.  Diego Rivera and Frieda Kahlo became friends of hers, and she traveled with them to the United States as Diego painted his famous--and infamous--series of murals celebrating the workers.  As a friend of Frieda's, Laura was able to tell the tragic story of the famous painter and her struggle with health and tragedy.  The figure of Santiago, first the murdered brother of Laura and later her son and grandson, symbolizes the heroic persona who fights for what is right only to be cut down before his prime.  Laura holds her love of these three in her heart, and eventually it sustains her through her life and into her new career.  That in later life she became a famous photographer of the poor and downtrodden is indicative of the love she has for the three Santiagos, and for her husband and lovers, all of whom where involved in the people's movement.  This novel encompasses all that is important in life, and it celebrates the courage and vitality of those who are willing to spend their lives for other's causes.  The  tracing of Mexico's history from revolution, corrupt politics and visionary idealism, interwoven with Laura's life, is fascinating, and leaves the reader with a better understanding not only of Mexico bul also of the human spirit.	2001-02-16
US	50678198	RSC4WVGAK5E0C	0817310479	980024164	All the Lost Girls: Confessions of a Southern Daughter (Deep South Books)	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Mothers and Daughters--Enigma or Revelation	All the Lost Girls is a touching memoir of life in the Deep South of the 50's and 60's, but at the same time, it is the universal revelation of the mother-daughter relationship that touches all women.  The question is, can we ever really know our mothers?  No matter how much of their lives and dreams they choose to reveal to us, daughters are forever in that limbo of unknowing regarding their mothers.  Whether it is competition for the father's love or favored status within the family, children, especially girls, are constantly competing with their mothers to be the best, not only to be the best and make her proud of you, but also to be better than she is.  Here we find Patricia Foster, second daughter in a family only one generation removed from dire poverty and ignorance, who is raised in middle class splendor by a bright and ambitious mother and a doctor father. His status elevates the family to heights only given to professionals--doctors, lawyers etc., and her mother is determined that her daughters will have the talents and advantages that she was denied.  They take every lesson available in a fifty mile radius of Foley, Alabama, a small town between the Gulf of Mexico and Mobile.  Alas, Patricia's older sister, Jean, always seemed to be the better of the two, leaving Patricia to feel lost and without accomplishment, falling short of her parents's expectations.  It takes years for her to make the break she must make to be her own person and even more years to mend the break with her parents. However, she realizes at age thirty that she has become her own person and that she has overcome the uncertainty and lack of self confidence of her youth.  At last, she can be friends with her parents and relish the deep love and understanding she has longed for all her life.  Patricia's story is a mirror of so many girls who feel they cannot live up to their mother's expectations and who feel inferior to them.  Her revelation is that her mother's prodding was for love and even if to shed light on herself, she wanted her daughters's accomplishments to be embelishments for them to carry forward into the world.even if to shed light on herself, she wanted her daughters's accomplishments to be embelishments for them to carry forward into the world.	2001-01-07
US	50678198	R6FBX7SV95MQL	0671774670	305287579	Mother of Pearl (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	Searching for Family	Mother of Pearl is a luminous novel of the 1950's South  that intermingles race and racism, degeneracy and prejudice, magic and love.  With characters whose names came from real estate and road signs such as Even Grade and Valuable Korner, the story races and rambles through a search for meaning, love, and family.  As often happens, when someone has no real family, they satisfy their needs in unconventional ways.  Here we find a girl, Valuable Korner, who is set adrift by her mother, the town hooker, who takes off for California one night never to return; Valuable goes to the only refuge available, a lesbian aunt and her companion who live in a large Victorian mansion on the river.  When her boyfriend moves to Georgia with his family, she is truly cut adrift until she finds comfort and compassion with a Black conjure woman and her lover, Even Grade, an orphan who is also looking for a family.  The complexity and variety of the plot moves the novel along at a rapid pace as the author reveals the pettiness and prejudice of 50's Mississippi while at the same time allowing the essential human needs to take precedence as an unusual family of mixed race begins to form.  There is also a touch of the outrageous that accompanies many Southern novels and that is certainly a part of Southern culture,  as well as the humor that erupts from such situations.  Overall, Mother of Pearl is a thoroughly tender and heartrending story of a few individuals in troubled times who overcome their despair in ways that are unexpected and influence their lives forever.	2000-12-27
US	50678198	R15OHQZZ4L825D	1569470952	463184252	Men	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The Evolution of Passion	Stella James's knowledge of passion began when she was old enough to notice her parents--youthful, exuberant, and endlessly lusting.  That this beautiful pair left her for their own realm, at the tender age of six, to be raised by an eccentric, intellectual grandmother was the beginning of an odyssey that by age 16 brought her to her first lover--a homosexual whom she was too naive to recognize. The humiliation she felt at this betrayal lurked inside her as she sought out men for one-night stands--evenings of which she was in control and through which she delighted in pure sexual pleasure with no strings.  Eventually, to her surprise, she met a man and fell in love.  The complicated relationships of her past continued to haunt her but real love finally brought the realization that she had found what she had always searched for.  Another very sensual aspect of the story is Stella's ability to cook--her love affair with the abundance of fruits, vegetables, and meats offered a creative and senusous extension of her passion.  That she becomes a chef is an elemental part of her character--making something delicious to eat is part love, part creation, part sharing.   Overall, we find a story of eroticisn and passison tempered by the universal search for real love and tenderness--the caring that comes from deeply felt knowledge of someone as well as the realization  that no one can escape their heritage but rather must emerge from and with it.	2000-12-27
US	50678198	R1FIMCAEMN63EV	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Good Triumphs Over Insidious Evil	Harry Potter does it again!  He triumphs over evil and wins our hearts, but this time the evil is far more sophisticated and insidious than before.  The dreaded and feared Lord Voldemort finally returns in  his hideous and revolting form, striking terror in the hearts of all the magical world and the readers as well.  This book is more sophisticated than the other three because it deals with complex moral and ethical issues as well as introduces the concept of an evil so vile that even a universal good and innocence is hard pressed to combat and conquer it.  However, the book, because of that very complexity, is more interesting and thought provoking than the others.  Perhaps aimed at a bit older reader, Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, returns us to the magical world with a vengeance as once again the reader immerses himself in the characters, creatures, and circumstances of this new work. The forces of good and evil clash as before, but we see Harry and his friends facing ethical dilemmas previously unencountered as they get older and receive more advanced magical training.  The qualities of friendship, loyalty, and responsibility are strongly presented here as Harry and friends face challenge after challenge.  They are also faced with  ethical decisions that come with experience and maturity.  And the bottom line is how hard it will be to wait for the next installment to find out what happens next!	2000-10-31
US	50678198	R25GIVATQMV2X	0385479646	630084340	Bound Feet & Western Dress: A Memoir	Books	3	11	12	N	Y	The Ultimate Breaking Away	The popularity of Asian stories has increased over the last few years and  Bound Feet and Western Dress, A Memoir is certainly one of the most  endearing.  The story of Chang U-i, a woman born in a traditional China who  was trained in traditional Chinese thought and responsibility, but whose  life spanned both the traditional and the modern--western--world,  highlights the difficulty of bridging the very distant gap between ancient  Chinese custom and the vast changes thrust  upon it by the emerging western  world.  Married off at the early age of fifteen to a man she had never  seen--as was the custom--U-i was left with her in-laws while her husband  continued his education in the West.  Even though she bore his family two  sons, she scarcely knew her husband and was shocked when he demanded a  divorce, as he put it, \\"the first couple in China to get a divorce.\\"  It is also the story of Pang-Mei, U-i's grand niece, who grew up in the  United States and became interested in her great aunt's story.  The  juxtaposition of their lives and the corresponding parallels are not only  interesting but also revealing of just how far U-i came from a young girl  in China through her interesting and challenging life to the end where she  was loved and cherished by many.	2000-09-06
US	50678198	R3CW04T2XNZKBR	0156011042	736668502	East of the Mountains	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Journey Towards Life	East of the Mountains offers a visual picture of the Washington landscape  that works almost like a character.  The descriptions of mountains, desert,  and fruit orchards blend with the story of a man's journey toward death as  he reviews his life and eventually turns back toward living.  Heart  surgeon, Ben Givins, sets out on a rainy Washington morning with his two  dogs to go bird hunting and finally to end his life.  When a series of  unexpected events occurs, his course is changed and challenged as he  struggles with age and infirmity, only to discover that he is still useful  and that life is still full of richness and beauty.  What initially was  to be a depressing story turned into a life-affirming saga of one man's  journey of self discovery.  In reliving his youth, war years, and savoring  the memories of his wife, Ben rediscovers the importance and fullness of a  life accustomed to loving and helping others.  Only through that revelation  is he able to return to his own life and face the challenges that  inevitably must come.	2000-08-29
US	50678198	R3Q40YIF5VX92D	034543630X	342504347	Simon's Family: A Novel of Mothers and Sons	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Magic, Myth, and Reality	Simon's Family is a story from Sweden, full of magic, myth, and reality.   The majestic landscape of towering forests, ancient oaks, and roaring sea  sets the stage for a story of family that encompasses not only blood ties  but those of race, nationality, and religion.  The call of ancient  religions weaves its tale throughout the story as the idea of archetypal  myth influences present day lives through dream and imagination.  The  story begins in the 1920's and travels through the horrors of World War II  and on into the post war world.  The effects of the Holocaust are a theme  that runs through the book along with the tolerance practiced by many  Swedes.  Politics is also a theme that is handled well and is not  overbearing.  The ideas of fairness and responsibility are influences on  the characters's lives that give the book additional depth.  The close  and inevitable ties that exist between a mother and child are examined in  depth with Karin, the loving and kind mother who overcomes her own sorrows  to become a mother to several children who become her own.   Several of the  characters are scared by destructive relationships with parents, and they  must overcome these memories in order to become whole in their adult lives.   The special relationship that can exist between a mother and son is also  well examined with  love and perception, and we are left with an overall  feeling of wholeness.  All in all, this is a lovely book, one filled with  myth and magic, but also a perception of the reality of life that is alive  and glowing.	2000-08-21
US	50678198	R38AADH9VPM1QK	0312243022	785940945	The Hours: A Novel	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Searching the Hours for the Other Tiger	In The Hours, we join the search for that illusive third tiger of the mind  that Borges mentions in The Other Tiger, as we also piece together the  hours of the lives of three women in three separate decades whose lives  come into collision by the end  of the novel.  First of all, Cunningham's  tribute to Virginia Woolf brings her life and genius into tragic focus,  while her influence is a guiding principle for Laura, a woman in search of  meaning in what she considers a vacuous world.  In 1980's Los Angeles,  Clarissa is affectionately called \\"Mrs. Dalloway\\" by her lifelong friend  and sometime lover for her similarity to Woolf's character.  Clarissa plans  a party for her oldest friend's literary triumph only to be put on hold by  circumstances beyond her control.  She plans her party with energy and  pleasure as Laura plans the birthday party for her husband with less than  enthusiasm.    Virginia is recovering in a London suburb while she  longs for the city and the stimulus it would bring to her new novel.  Her  sister's life, with children and everyday pursuits is what Laura needs to  give her life balance, but even though she does have that life, she tends  more to Virginia's tragic longings.  The three stories come together as  we recognize the slim thread between sanity and insanity and what a narrow  space lies between the courage to go on and the ability to let go when  there is no longer hope.  That Laura does not give up is unexpected as is  her relationship to Clarissa in the end.  This is a brilliant study of  character as well as a tribute to Woolf who in her own brilliance conceived  her place in the world.	2000-08-19
US	50678198	R3OVPKCXF1FHBY	0375411550	331831848	The Bluest Eye	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Blue Eyes Are Not the Answer	The Bluest Eye, Toni Morrison's first novel, is redolent with imagery and  the richness of language that her later books also reveal.  We discover,  through the eyes of children, the heartbreaking story of Pecola Breedlove,  an eleven year old Black girl whose physical ugliness shapes her place in  the world.  Shunned by her classmates and made fun of, she is befriended by  two sisters who feel sorry for her and set about trying to change the  course of her life.  Pecola's lack of beauty is an extension of her  family which has no unity and no core of values to lean on.  Her longing  for blue eyes suggests her craving for the beauty that exists for all the  blond and blue-eyed children and explains her love of Shirley Temple and  similar stars, but deep inside, reveals the tragic lack of self-love and  the almost universal belief of her times that Black was not beautiful.  When a devastating event shakes her entire world, Pecola tries to maintain  her equilibrium with her belief that her eyes will really turn blue.  However, the changes that occur, are far less attractive and incredibly  more destructive.  As with all her books, Toni Morrison has created a  poetic, if tragic, view of the world.  In Pecola's life we can experience  the tragedy of not having a true place in life, and share the shattering of  disillusionment that can only be felt in childhood.	2000-08-13
US	50678198	R1152ZI6MELGGJ	0767902807	632913221	Under The Tuscan Sun - At Home In Italy	Books	4	26	28	N	N	The Richness of Italy	Under the Tuscan Sun is a book completely filled with extravagant and  sumptious descriptions of the Italian Tuscan countryside, its lush fruits,  vegetables, and flowers, olive groves,  orchards, and vineyards.  After  several summers of visits to Italy, the author takes the plunge and buys a  centuries old farmhouse near Cortona.  The book details the progress and  difficulty of restoring a house in a foreign country as well as the  satisfaction gained when even the smallest project is completed.  We  travel through several years and many more dreams as the author  accomplishes what she originally envisioned her Italian home to be.  Anyone  who has ever restored or remodeled a house on foreign soil can appreciate  the problems and anticipation that go hand in hand with such projects--not  to mention the untimate pleasure when the project eventually becomes a  home.    Equally interesting are the recipes rich with local produce,  the pressing of one's own olives into oil, tours of ancient churches and  towns, the reviving of once vital olive trees and grape vines, and the  lovely introspective passages that reveal the spiritual aspects of such a  project and dedication to the richness of life.  This is truly  a book to  be savored and reread, and even if you never get to Tuscany, you will  retain a bit of it in your psyche.	2000-08-13
US	50678198	R1O2MPS0LB2CKX	0140270590	396807558	A New Song (Mitford)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Another Visit with Old Friends	A visit to Mitford is like a breath of fresh air, a reacquaintance with old friends, and a renewal of faith all in one.  After four previous books, Jan Karon has once again drawn us into the spell of the small town life  that glows with love, life, and spirituality.  This time, we not only get  to catch up with all our old friends in Mitford, but we are introduced to  another congregation of interesting and unforgettable characters.  When Father Timothy and Cynthia go to a small island off the North Carolina  coast, we become involved in the lives of another set of wonderful--and a  few not so wonderful--people.  Whitecap Island is as much a microcosm as is  Mitford, and Father Tim assimilates the various levels of society so that a  cast of colorful characters emerges and duly receives the blessings that  seem to flow effortlessly from his loving ministry, not only to his own  congregation, but to everyone in town.  The coastal environment also  conjures up visions of the sea and all its many faces, from blue and  tranquil to gray and menacing as storms roll in that challenge anyone's  faith or fears.  The most abiding feature of any of the Mitford books,  and this one in particular, is the easy spirituality that permeates the  stories.  As an Episcopal priest, Father Tim exudes his belief in a loving  god who is accessible to all, and in his daily life and works, he  challenges and influences all whose lives he touches.  The quotations from  the Bible, the Book of Common Prayer, and the Episcopal Hymnal are  inspiring and beautiful to the spirit.  Overall, Father Tim's love and  wisdom are a wealth to the readers whose lives also become filled to  overflowing.	2000-07-31
US	50678198	R24HQBP0GVPJHO	0140293248	221101137	The Girls' Guide to Hunting and Fishing	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Hunting and Fishing for Life	I avoided this  book for a year thinking , from the title, that it was  another sweet potato queen epic, but was I ever surprised when I finally took the plunge and met Jane Rosenal!  What a great character!  Jane is so  real that we can all relate to her and to the situations she encounters as  she grows up to become an interesting woman.  Here is a character who  loves and is close to her family, who really enjoys being with her brother  and sisters and parents, and who is obviously shaped by them, as well as an  eccentric novelist aunt.  For example,  Jane is all too aware of how her  family will feel--disapproval--when she moves in with a man her father's  age, but is relieved when they are cordial to him.  Only when close to  death does her father tell her what he really thinks.  Jane's story is  also about growing up--and sometimes that takes longer than one might  think.  It is about searching for love and not finding the right one until  \\"Mr. Right\\" does come along and half scares you to death.  Ultimately it is  about being yourself and having the confidence to be open and real and to  accept the consequences if the real you doesn't make the grade every time.   The Girls Guide is funny--Jane is funny--and the book has some great lines.   It is also a serious and touching story about life and finding your place  in it.  This is a book you could easily read more than once, maybe just a  favorite chapter here and there, and enjoy equally every time.	2000-07-31
US	50678198	R16XK7PCBNKLQ4	0316284955	613460974	White Oleander (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Poetic Justice?	How can you describe imagery so beautiful and unique that you keep a pen in hand to underline phrases to remember as you read the book?  White Oleander is filled with such imagery, so poetic it sweeps you along until  you are as caught up in its spell as are the characters it describes.    There are shades of Tom Robbins lurking between the lines as the images  leap off the pages regaling the readier with a sensory overload.  And the  picaresque nature of Astrid's youthful search is reminiscent of Robbins's  characters.  However, the comparison stops there, because in White Oleander  the characters are heartbreakingly real and their struggles are almost  beyond imagination.  On the surface this is a story about a mother and  daughter, but not the usual relationship we have come to expect in a novel.   Ingrid Magnussen--poet, beauty, free spirit, evil encarnate--and her  daughter, Astrid--brilliant artist, deep thinker, lover of beauty, hungry  for home--have a unique relationship.  Ingrid, who spurns all conventional  thought and propriety shapes Astrid as she would a lump of clay, and it  takes Astrid years before she realizes the heartless manipulation and  control her mother has used on her.  When Ingrid is sent to prison for  murder, Astrid embarks on a quest for the real home and family she never  had, not to mention the unconditional love one expects from their mother.   Despite horrific circumstances in foster homes, Astrid also finds love as  she learns, often the hard way, what love really is and that ultimately,  she is a giver of love.  She learns to take the best from all the places  she has been and to learn from them; she also knows what kind of life she  wants for herself.  This is truly a lovely book, one I hated to finish  and one I will read again.  Here we have beauty and inconceivable tragedy,  but ultimately, there is triumph for Astrid who takes the beauty where she  can find it and transforms it into something she can love--a lesson  well-taken.	2000-07-24
US	50678198	R37X10QLJWY5AN	037570924X	236185551	An Equal Music: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Music for Life and Love	An Equal Music is a music lover's dream as it weaves its story of love and breathtaking romance through the stories of Michael Holme and Julia McNichol, lovers from music school days in Vienna who lose each other and  remarkably reunite years later in London.   Michael, a violinist and member  of the prestigious Maggiore Quartet, and Julia, now Julia Hanson, a  brilliant pianist, catch glimpses of each other on two of London's  double-decker buses after ten years with no contact.    Michael becomes  obsessed with finding Julia for whom he has never ceased to search or love.   Despite all his efforts to find her, he is unsuccessful until she comes to  one of the Maggiore's concerts and waits afterward to see him.  What  happens next, as they inevitably reunite, is a story of tenderness mixed  with heartbreak.  For Michael, Julia is the one love of his life, the  soulmate for whom we all aspire.  Not only their music but their complete  love binds them inexorably to each other for life; their playing together  is so in tune that they even breathe as one and the joy they receive from  that bond is beyond most earthly relationships.  But perfection is not what  is in store for them in their relationship.  Not only is Julia married with  a child, but she also has a heartbreaking secret that even Michael cannot  help her overcome.  Reading this book we are thrust into the  international music scene as we follow the Maggiore Quartet through their  rehearsals and concerts, their inevitable inner conflicts, and their  triumphant performances.  We learn their pieces as they examine the  movements and practice them in detail.  Not only do we share their  technical expertise but their emotional reaction to the music as well.   There is much depth here in the knowledge of music and in the intimate and  lasting relationships that are formed by life and experience.	2000-07-21
US	50678198	R1QHNI8ULMAWQ1	0786705566	844718574	A Cafe on the Nile	Books	4	22	22	N	Y	Sample the exotic treachery, intrigue, and love	A beautiful cover led me initially to this book as the Sphinx glowed from the clouds amidst palms and distant mountains.  The exotic beckoned as I iimagined what interesting pleasures might issue forth from a \\"cafe on the  Nile.\\"  I was not disappointed!.  A cast of fascinating characters led me  into the labyrinths of intrigue, love, and war, not to mention the  treachery and calculating energy that existed in  Cairo in the  early days  of WWII.  A brilliant and wealthy dwarf, a German soldier of fortune, an  English gypsy safari leader and his medical student wife, an impoverished  English Lord, and energetic twin sisters from Kentucky make up the main  cast of characters, but there are numerous enduring indigenous characters  that round out the multi-layered  ethnic mixture of Egypt and Africa.   This is a novel of intrugue, of close ties of friendship and of betrayal.   It focuses on the Italian campaign in Africa where the Italians violated  all rules of civilized warfare when they dropped poison gas on thousands of  Abyssinian warriors and bombed Red Cross hospital tents.  The ensuing  torture and vengeance that traveled with their forces illustrates the  horror of war and what it can do do one's humanity.  Another element of  this novel that distinguishes it from the usual historical novel is its  focus on the pleasures offered in  that part of the world that might be  considered decadent in other cultures but that exists hand in hand with the  austerity of Islam and the hypocrisy of Chrisianity.  Sexual favors and  delights are there for the enjoyig, given freely as gifts, as bribes, and  as favors.  Here the exotic manifests itself in an enchanting and throbbing  rhythm that whets the appetite without being vulgar.  In addition, the  actual love affairs and intimate relations thrill without repulsing.   All in all, this is a novel full of energy and excitement.  History is  there as well as adventure, intrigue and international affairs.  Descriptions of theAfrican bush are  as beautiful and poetic as the animal  and plant life that charm and enchant those on safari.  To read Cafe on the  Nile is to enter a world of fascinating intrigue and drama that dashes from  start to finish, leaving the reader breathless and wishing for more.	2000-07-16
US	50678198	R1GXFJHFZKWHLG	0679450009	772619720	The Binding Chair or, A Visit from the Foot Emancipation Society	Books	5	5	7	N	Y	Bound to More Than a Chair	The Binding Chair is an exotic mixture of a woman's search for love, acceptance, and significance.  Set in turn of the 19th century Shanghai, the book reveals the horrors of bound feet, not to mention other  indignities that Chinese women had to endure.  The juxtaposition of British  imperial society with that of the upper class Chinese shows an uneasy  mingling of cultures that is often difficult to understand.    The main  character, May, is a Chinese woman who escapes an unfortunate arranged  marriage and purposely finds herself a place in a high class brothel.  From  there she goes on to marriage in the upper class, but her life in not  necessarily a happy one. May experiences loss, not only of her first  family, but of her own family as well.   The tragedies that affect May also  affect those around her especially her neice, Alice, and other women she  encounters.  The pain May experiences in her bound feet, reflects the inner  pain she suffers for her past and what could have been her future.  The  binding chair, where her grandmother tied her to bind and break her feet,  is symbolic of the invisible bonds of society and the ever present  tranquility of opium; that May overcomes  her bonds with offers of kindness  and charity, is a tribute to her enduring spirit  and her search for  freedom.  Ultimately, this is a spellbinding novel about the nature of  women's committment to themselves and to family, and ultimately, to the  traditions that bind them to their time and place.  A must for discerning  readers.	2000-06-21
US	50678198	R5GBISE8JS6ZM	068484477X	709347155	Stones from the River	Books	5	4	4	N	N	How Different is Different?	Stones From the River is a book about being different, as all people are different.  In this case, the main character, Trudy  Montag, is a dwarf and we trace her life from birth to adulthood in Natzi Germany where she  realizes that she is not the only one who is \\"different.\\"  Throughout her  youth, Trudy suffers the pain and indignity that come from ridicule from  her schoolmates as she longs to have friends and be part of the group;  she  also develops a deepseated rage stemming from certain heinous acts against  her.  When it becomes apparent that the Natzis truly have control and  beloved members of the community begin to be threatened, beaten and  eventually disappear, Trudy finds the strength to help those people who  suddenly have become as different as she is.  While she and her father hide  Jews and other dissidents, she is able to accept herself more easily.   Another aspect of the book is Trudy's storytelling ability and her skill at  turning the real world into fictions that are easier to live with and that  make the townspeople come to her for information and comfort.  This is a  deeply conceived book, one with beautiful passages that you want to read  over and over; most importantly, it teaches the lesson that all people are  different, some physically, all mentally and emotionally, but all longing  for the same things,  love, family, security, and safety.	2000-05-14
US	50678198	RRJ79NJAHBR4L	0375401121	471049102	While I Was Gone	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Forgiveness and redemption overcome horrific past event!	Once again, Sue Miller has written a thoughtful and powerful story, this time about Jo Becker, a woman of quiet integrity and trustworthy love.  Her marriage to a kind and gentle minister, their three precocious and talented  daughters, and her much loved profession as a veterinarian place her in  positions of high regard and respect in her community and great affection  and love with her family.  But Jo has a past life that she cannot forget,  partly because of the role she played at a time when she was searching for  her own identity, and largely because of a tragic and horrific event that  brought that other life to a screeching halt.  When a friend from that  past surfaces in her small Massachusetts town, the memories come rushing  back with a vividness akin to the actual time, and she relives the tragedy  once again.  She is drawn to this old housemate in a strange and  frightening way, a sexual fantasy that not only attracts but also repels  her.    This is a story about trust and betrayal .  It takes us to the  edge of that certainty of how well we can know a person, even if we have  lived with them for years.  It also reminds us of how we can return from  the edge of heartbreak and despair through faith and the abiding affection  that sometimes exists between people who truly love each other.  Miller's  characters are real and if they suffer, the reader suffers with them,  hoping for forgiveness and  redemption.	2000-03-22
US	50678198	RWBM78TBMFIZ5	0804118906	816847926	Before Women Had Wings	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Bird Learns to Soar Despite Obstacles	Bird, a poverty stricken and abused little girl, struggles to find her wings so that she can soar in the heavens like birds and angels to a place where there are happy loving families with no knowledge of fear, anger, and  pain.  In this tale of a poor Florida family, we find several generations  of passed-on abuse, anger, and lost dreams.  In a child's reality, this  heartbreaking legacy is manifested in feelings of guilt and worthlessness  tempered by the daily hope that she will be loved and her parents will stop  drinking and fighting.  Bird's quest for a spiritiual answer comes not  from the Gideon Bible she reads but never gets past the fire and brimstone  of the Old Testament to Jesus's love and forgivenes, but from a healer who  becomes her friend, confidante and literal savior.   Miss Zola is a kind  and gentle woman whose own tragedies have made her sensitive to those of  others.  She, plus a Walt Whitman-quoting biker, bring Bird to realize her  own worth.  When Bird is able to tell her mother that she loves--and  forgives--her, we know she is on the road to recovery, just as we hope the  same for her mother whose decision to change realizes the redemption they  all need.	2000-02-21
US	50678198	R1UYEB73SKDU33	0395924952	313543011	Jubilee	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Triumph of the Human Spirit Overcomes Despair of Slavery	Jubilee is a story that details the triumph of the human spirit in all its many facets:  love, hate, fear, forgiveness, acceptance, compassion, pride.  All these exist in the character of Vyry, a slave on a Georgia plantation,  the never recognized daughter of the plantation's master.  Stories of  slavery, the Civil War, and its aftermath are often presented as glowing  tales of chivalry and glory for those bygone days, but in Vyry's story, the  glory comes only from faith in God and his promises to send a new Moses to  free them as he did the Israelites.  Imagine the other side:  picture life  from a slave's point of view and glory becomes hardship, backbreaking work,  separation of families, vicious beatings and no hope of freedom.     Vyry's story is true, retold by her great granddaughter in all its poignant  detail as history unfolds and her life changes.  Her strength and  compassion for all mankind plus her faith in God and His moral commandments  places Vyry with all great heroines.  This is a thought provoking and  heartbreaking story but one that triumphs in the end and leaves the reader  with a sense of regret for past injustice and inhumanity.   In no  uncertain terms, this book makes it clear that there could be no excuse for  slavery despite its ancient history and justification.	2000-02-21
US	50678198	R2XP4ZSCQNAVIE	0380811308	150038577	Skin Deep	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Being white in a black world?	Kathleen Cross introduces a problem that most people wouldn't think of--being white in a black world.  Nina Moore, a beautiful black woman, is as white as any white person could be, including blue eyes to match her  flawless white skin.  For many, this would not be a problem, but for her,  it causes dismay and uncertainty as to her actual belonging, not only to  her family but also to her race.  Having grown up in an upper middle class  black home, she perceives of herself as black and is proud of her heritage.   However, she finds that while looking white opens doors for her, it also  alienates her in some respects from her fellow blacks.  As events in the  novel unfold, she finds herself in a search for her real heritage and is  shocked, surprised, and dismayed by what she finds out.    The story is  interesting, if there are a bit too many soulsearching passages of angst as  she despairs over her color, and there are some surprising twists that make  it worth reading.  The characters are real and engaging and we find  ourselves wanting to know more.  For a first novel, this is a good one,  easy to read and with just enough meat to satisfy the discerning reader.	2000-02-21
US	50678198	R2FISDU913WQYT	0679750703	202923996	Havana Dreams: A Story of a Cuban Family	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Cuban Dreams--Myth or Reality	Havana Dreams scans the 20th century in the unforgettable account of a Cuban family, descended from aristocrats, who live the high life before Fidel, and the heartbreak after.  This is the story of Naty Revuelta, and  four generations of Cuban women.  In 1952, Naty met Fidel Castro, a  young  revolutionary, and although she was married, began a passionate affair with  him that resulted in his unrecognized daughter and his rejection of her  mother.  Despite the large number of friends and family who fled Cuba,  including Naty's husband, a doctor and their daughter, Nina,  when Fidel  took over, Naty stayed with her mother, Dona Natica and her daughter by  Fidel, Alina, in hopes that she and Fidel would eventually be together.  This is the story of her hopes and dreams, as well as the heartbreak of  lost love and a disentegrating society.  We trace the lives of Naty's  daughters and their daughters, who all end up in the States, one with an  ordinary confortable life, and the daughter of Fidel who longs for the  acceptance and position she feels she deserves.  This is truly a powerful  story, even moreso because itis true, of passion and what revolution can do  in the light of modern Cuban history.	2000-02-21
US	50678198	R2DCRYE2M7P4Z7	0394751019	421244819	The Persian Boy	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Alexander, Master of the World	Alexander the Great, one of the world's most admired and respected military men and Great King of Persia, died at age 33.  In the prime of youth, he conquered much of the then-known world, receiving homage and love  from his subjects from India to Greece because of his justice and mercy,  and respect and admiration from his men because of his military genius and  remarkable ability to lead men of all nations and tribes.  The Persian  Boy tells his story, and that of the ancient world through the eyes of  Bagoas, a boy captured and made a slave and eunuch at age 10.  Bagoas's  legendary beauty set him apart for advancement, and his intelligence and  integrity made him a fitting partner for such a man as Alexander.  Male  relationships were accepted as natural in Alexander's times and his long  connection with Bagoas is historical.  Through Bagoas's eyes, we come to  know Alexander and his world, to appreciate the sensual nature of one of  history's greatest warriers.  That man could be at once loving and  ferocious, gentle and vengeful and be loved and admired by thousands hints  at a crack in modern sensibilities that smacks of prejudice and fear.   This is an interesting story both in the historical and narrative sense,   It conjures images of opulence and glory unknown in modern times and modern  warfare.  Jewels and gold, spices and incense were prized gifts and  treasures both for mortals and the Immortals.  In a time when Greek gods,  Mithra, and the Hindu trinity ruled the earth, religion was moral and  ethical and structured by rules of omens and ritual sacrifice.  The ancient  world offers much to modern society in terms of moral and ethical thought  and behavior.  Perhaps it is time to look back instead of forward to learn  the meaning of existence.	2000-02-21
US	50678198	R2JOOO2ZUT1TG2	0140280499	487895309	The Farming of Bones	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Endurance and Hope in Haiti	Edwidge Danticat, author of Breath, Eyes, Memory, has written another heartbreaking novel.  This time in The Farming of Bones, she takes us to the 1937 Dominican Republic where Trujillo decides to rid his country of  the many Haitians who work in the cane fields.  We understand the terror,  persecution, and despair of those who are maimed, slaughtered. or deported.   Amabelle Desirt, a young Haitian girl orphaned at age eight, is rescued by  a Dominican family in whose home she is raised with their daughter,  Valencia, and later becmes her maid.  When Senora Valencia marries Pico, a  colonel in Trujillo's army, Amabelle is the one to deliver her first child.   Amabelle has promised herself to Sabastian, a cane worker on a nearby  farm, and when she fears that he has been take by Trujillo's army, she  gathers her few belongings and begins the long trek over the mountains in  hopes of meeting him across the Dominican/Haitian border.  What follows is  a story of heartbreak, horror , and despair.  It is a story of man's  savagery in the face of prejudice and hate; it takes us to an unimaginable  place where racial cleansing once more emerges to make a civilized person  sick and ashamed of the human race.   We follow Amabelle as we  sympathize and empathize with her plight.  We admire her spirit and mourn  her losses.  More than anything though, we suffer with her and applaude her  endurance.  Danticat writes beautiful, descriptive language that  invites us to share the beauty of her native land as well as to experience  the ravages perpetrated by Trujillo.  Although written from the Haitian  perspective, The Farming of Bones reminds us of Julia Alvarez's  In the  Time of the Butterflies;  both books reveal the injustice and terror of  Trujillo's reign and only knowing of his death lends any justice at all.	2000-02-08
US	50678198	R2F9RAUBOK3UBW	0316789089	760222125	The Pilot's Wife	Books	4	5	5	N	N	My Husband, the Stranger	Our husband, our children, our parents, our best friends--these are people close to our hearts, people we know as we know ourselves, or do we?  Is it ever really possible to completely know another person?  That question is  the theme of The Pilot's Wife.  We consider our worlds--the world of those  close to our lives--to be sacred, safe, and free from deceipt.  When  something happens to upset this security, our worlds are thrown askew and  the unthinkable questions must be asked.  This is what happens when  Katherine Lyons opens her door in the early morning hours to find that the  shadow that hanga over all pilot's families has descended on her.  The  shock, the anger and the despair that follow are nothing compared to what  the investigation of the plane crash brings to light.  In the weeks  following the crash  Katherine begins to emerge from the depths of grief  only to be faced with new information that makes her husband seem to a  complete stranger.  As the plot unfolds, we share her disbelief and outrage  as well as difficulty in accepting the inevitable, and her resolution to  try to protect her teenage daughter.  This is a book of tragedy and  grief but also it is a book of treachery and deceipt.  Katherine's world  has become unreal, and even those who appear to be there to help her are at  last found to be false.  If we grieve and find indignation along with  Katherine, we may consider examining our own lives for traces of  inconsistency and doubt.  Certainly if nothing else, we can prove by our  own lives that we are to be trusted by those closest to us.	2000-01-25
US	50678198	R1MR6H0M19DS3X	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Magic and Wizards--Just like Us!	It's been a while since I've read a book of fantasy and after reading the first Harry Potter book, I realized how much I'd missed it. Magic wands, flying broomsticks, potions, dragons, messenger owls--and much more--are present to enchant the reader whether old or young. The young Harry,  magician unaware, is a charming and somewhat pitiable young man who comes  into his own in the world of wizards as well as the world of humans. His  instinctive notions of what is right and wrong make him an immediate  favorite with his fellow students at Hogwarts School of Wizardry and  Witchcraft, although he invokes the jealousy and derision of a certain evil  element group.  In the world of wizards and witches that Harry  joins we find all the joys and sorrows, foibles and follies that exist in  the human world. The only real difference is that their differences are  settled with spells and magic as well as common sense and good moral  character. Overall, this is a story of the battle between good and evil,  with virtuous and kindly wizards poised against dastardly villians. And  what a pleasure it is to get lost in a different world where magic and myth  join to not only teach a lesson but to entertain us royally. I haven't had  as much fun reading since The Lord of the Rings and Star Wars. This is a  book for children--and adults of all ages. Go quickly and get the first so  that you can start the next ones!	1999-12-06
US	50678198	R3ICP6P4AUZ1L8	006019491X	694565872	Daughter of Fortune: A Novel	Books	4	18	18	N	N	High Adventure from Chile to California	Once again, Isabelle Allende has spun a tale of adventure, love, suspense and mystery.  Daughter of Fortune begins in her native Chile in the mid 1800's with the adoption of a supposed foundling by an English family of  distinction.  Eliza Sommers is raised by the Enlgish brother and sister and  by the native woman who cooks and runs their household.  She becomes an  accomplished young lady befitting her station but she also learns native  lore and cooking at which she excells.    When first love strikes her  in the form of a very unsuitable lover, Aunt Rose plans to send her to  England. However, Eliza has different ideas and she, with the help of a  sympathetic Chinese man, escapes  the bonds of society and begins an  odyessy that takes her to the California of the gold rush days.  Her  adventures are somewhat reminiscent of the Eva Luna stories in their  picaresque nature and exotic cast of characters whom she encounters.     Ultimately, Eliza learns the ways of the world, both good and bad, real and  spiritual, and eventually realizes the direction her life must take.  There  is also resolution of several family mysteries that bring the ending to a  satisfying conclusion.  This is really a good read, one you can't put down  and when  you finish it, want to know what happens in the future.	1999-11-30
