US	50683815	R2UXXW9TOJEO1L	1585676195	914251018	Molvania: A Land Untouched By Modern Dentistry (Jetlag Travel Guide)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Laugh Out Loud Funny Guide	I picked this book up while I was browsing in the bookstore last week and ended up making a fool of myself, laughing out loud -- and loudly -- so that I had to take it home so I could guffaw in the privacy of my own home.  I buy a travel guide before every trip and some are, of course, more helpful than others, but all are pretty banal.  Not this one!  All you have to do is open any page and start reading and I promise that unless you are are lacking a keen sense of the ridiculous, you won't get past 1 or 2 sentences before the silliness will hit you and you will be highly amused.  A very clever idea, done very well, this book is not for people who take themselves -- or their travel guides -- seriously.  It's just for fun. The photos are priceless and everything from the maps to the index are all in on the joke.  \\"Molvania:  A Land Untouched by Modern Dentistry\\" is a gem.  Much fun.  Good for when you need to feel better. No need to go there.  Reading about it is ALL the fun -- an you won't have to get your shots!	2005-01-21
US	50683815	R1QTDNPN9W42XZ	0375725601	517121775	The Devil in the White City: Murder, Magic, and Madness at the Fair That Changed America	Books	4	100	108	N	N	The White City and the Dark Side	This is an easy and enticing read, full of gritty and gossipy details that are presented in a style that keeps the reader interested. I was intrigued by the astounding feat of effort that it took to prepare and present the Columbian Exhibition in Chicago in 1893 and Larson does a good job of introducing us to the men who made it happen -- all led by the talented and tireless architect Daniel Burnham. The cast of characters with whom Burnham worked reads like a Who's Who of culture and design in the 19th Century.<br />The reader also comes to learn a good deal about the city of Chicago at that time -- how it so desperately wanted to refine its image from that of a grimy city known primarily as a hog-slaughterer into a cultural oasis and how it self-consciously but determidly sought world-class status, competing with New York and Paris to make the Big Time.<br />The enormous success of the White City was due in large part to that gutsy determination and much hard work. And this book explains that very well. At the same time, it really piqued my interest to the extent that I have done some additional research into this World's Fair.<br />Larson parallels Burnham's story with that of Herman Mudgett, alias Dr. H.H. Holmes, the first notorious serial killer in the United States. Holmes, a charming, fast-talking and handsome con artist, was able to swindle, steal and lie his way into and out of many schemes that a less clever person could have never even imagined, much less succeeded at. He was also a cold-blooded killer who had no qualms about killing women and children as well as men. He ran a hotel and apartments in Chicago during the Fair and attracted tenants and victims there with the Fair's help. Holmes' story is chilling but also fascinating. Again, he is someone I'd like to know more about.<br />Having said all that, I realize that the things I enjoyed about the book were also weaknesses. There is so much going on that I'd have appreciated either more focus on one area or a great deal more focus on the whole picture. The book just left me wanting to know more, which is not necessarily a bad thing. I just wish the paralell stories would have had more of a connection. I wish there had been more illustrations. I wanted more detail about the legacy of the Fair on the City of Chicago.<br />All in all, though, this was a fascinating story and one I could not put down. Be forewarned though, if you enjoy the story, this book will not be enough for you. You'll want to read more. Fortunately, there is an excellent bibliography at the end, as well as extensive notes and a thorough index. (...)area or a great deal more focus on the whole picture. The book just left me wanting to know more, which is not necessarily a bad thing. I just wish the paralell stories would have had more of a connection. I wish there had been more illustrations. I wanted more detail about the legacy of the Fair on the City of Chicago. <br />All in all, though, this was a fascinating story and one I could not put down. Be forewarned though, if you enjoy the story, this book will not be enough for you. You'll want to read more. Fortunately, there is an excellent bibliography at the end, as well as extensive notes and a thorough index. (...)	2004-03-21
US	50683815	R39YJAABHCK5ZW	0151005982	886779732	The Yellow Rain	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	Time Is a Patient Yellow Rain	This book, a compelling and poignant elegy to both a vanished village and dying way of life, is one of the most beautifully written and sorrowful books I have ever read on the power of memory.  Andres, the last surviving inhabitant of Ainielle, a small village in the Spanish Pyrenees, has been alone for years, with only his loyal dog, and the ghosts of his family and fellow villagers, for company.  On what he believes to be his last day on earth, he recounts the slow, steady decay of his home and his village, the loss of his friends and family, and in the process tells us much about himself.  The &quot;yellow rain&quot; of the Poplar leaves is compared to both time -- &quot;like a patient yellow rain that . . .douses the fiercest of fires&quot; -- and death.  As he watches his village die, Andres laments the loss of his own life as well.  His entire life has been one of loss -- of his young daughter to disease, of one son to the Civil War and another who leaves, never to be forgiven or come back, and of his wife, to suicide.  What she cannot bear, Andres stubbornly suffers through.  He loves his village as he loved his family, but is powerless to stop its destruction by nature and time.  And ultimately he knows that he, too, must die, ultimately becoming a part of the past.  Though the images of destruction and decay are strong and ominpresent, they nonetheless mingle with those of rebirth and growth; the life cycle is complete. The nature that destroys during the winter also comes alive again each spring.<br />Andres comes to accept the fact that the ghosts of his past now dwell with him, and he himself then becomes a ghost, wandering through the streets of the old village and its surrounding hills, sometimes losing himself in time and place.  He knows that his life is over and he finally comes to accept the loss of hope that his village will ever revive.<br />This book is beautifully written -- the language poetic and rich, the symbols and images both stark and gently evocative. The past dwells with Andres, as it does for all of us, in the present, living on in memory and in dreams.<br />My Spanish is not good enough to read Mr. Llamazares in his native tongue, so I can only hope that, in the future, there will be other translations of his works for me to read.  This lovely little book is a perfect introduction to his writing.gently evocative. The past dwells with Andres, as it does for all of us, in the present, living on in memory and in dreams.<br />My Spanish is not good enough to read Mr. Llamazares in his native tongue, so I can only hope that, in the future, there will be other translations of his works for me to read.  This lovely little book is a perfect introduction to his writing.	2004-02-23
US	50683815	R12V8J5P9RGPEY	067003133X	929452996	The Bounty: The True Story of the Mutiny on the Bounty	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Compelling Tale	Caroline Alexander does a marvelous job of making what could be a rather dull history of a long-ago mutiny into a fascinating tale that reads more like a Shakespearean tragedy.  The characters come alive in that they are allowed to tell the story in their own words; through the journal entries, court records and witness statements, the tale of the HMS Bounty opens up to the reader in all its suspense and sorrow.  Ms. Alexander's history reveals enough detail to educate the reader, but never falls into the realm of excruciating boredom that many such non-fictional accounts often do. Skillfully and artfully written, the book allows us to get to know and understand the officers and seamen on the ship as the story moves forward along its tragic course.  From the original mission to gather breadfruit (another very interesting aspect of the story) to the perilous voyage of Lieutenant Bligh and his supporters after the mutiny, every aspect of the story is entertaining and informative.  Ms. Alexander chooses to focus primarily, though, on the court-martial of those mutineers who were ultimately found, and this is where the full story is illuminated.  Captain Bligh is revealed to be a duty-bound officer who cared about his mission and his men and Fletcher Christian is no longer the high-minded hero of legend, fiction and film. He is a fatally flawed man who is doomed by his own actions to be forever alienated from his fellow men, country, home and family.  His is a fascinating character study, and I feel as though we will never be able to fully grasp either his motives or the source of his anger.  But his actions had consequences far beyond what he probably ever imagined and he would never have dreamed that his story would still be told today, over 200 years later.  An incredibly story, well-told. Difficult to put down or to stop thinking about.	2003-12-02
US	50683815	ROW3VKKGDQA8Y	0375712895	709795035	The White	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Novel as Poetry	This brief beautifully written novel, based on the real life of Mary Jemison, reads more like a short epic poem.  Written in an almost stream-of-consciousness style, the narrative follows the history of Ms. Jemison from the time she is captured by the Shawnee until her death many years later. Until the day she died, she chose to remain with the Indians, even when provided with the choice of returning to the White world.  In the interim, she marries twice (and is widowed both times) and bears 6 children.  Her capture is sudden and shocking and she lives while she watches her entire family die.  Her silence becomes her refuge; within it she heals, and is able to adjust to her new life. She becomes a part of the Seneca tribe in trade for a brother who died fighting the whites.  Thus the brutal conflict, as well as the peaceful blending, of two cultures becomes the backdrop of Mary's existence. The wonders of the natural world, as well as the cruelty of mankind, are revealed in the descriptions of the world and the people who inhabit it.  The love of family and the pain  and loss of war are both described in prose that works as poetry. Mary, taken in by two sisters who care for her, slowly adapts to the Seneca ways of life and ultimately finds a world she does not want to leave. The story slowly unfolds and the narration is split between third person and first person.  Mary's thoughts are scattered at times, but they parallel the action and can be quite effective and moving.  However, I wanted to read more, in more depth, than this brief novel provided to me. I found Mary's story fascinating and this book just gave me a taste of it.  Lovely novel, far too brief.	2003-10-07
US	50683815	R2LL6N3EOUEWFN	0060987103	816790174	Wicked: The Life and Times of the Wicked Witch of the West	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Beyond the Rainbow	This marvelous, imaginative and thought-provoking novel takes the story of the &quot;Wizard of Oz&quot; and spins its themes around more thoroughly than the famous tornado spun Dorothy and her house.  Elphaba, who becomes the Wicked Witch of the West, is a Munchkinlander, born of a religious preacher who thinks her birth is some sort of punishment,and a beautiful, alcoholic mother who is restless and lonely.  During the course of her life, we see her as a freak of a child, a cranky but intelligent schoolgirl and then as a rebellious young woman who hopes to turn the tide of history in Oz by fighting against the powerful Wizard.  Elphaba's loneliness is primarily self-inflicted, and at heart she does not believe she has a soul, although she longs for one.  During her journey, she makes mistakes, some very serious, and ultimately fears that she is a failure. Among the fascinating questions this novel raises is the question of whether she is indeed a failure, or, because she never compromises and never gives up, is she ultimately a success?  Her fate is very well known, and her whole life seems to lead up to the final confrontation with Dorothy, her seemingly innocent murderer.  But this novel addresses the question of free will vs. destiny, as well as good vs. evil.  Was Elphaba's destiny pre-determined, or was it of her own making?  Is she better or worse than the Wizard who sends an innocent child to murder her?  Was her single-minded abandonment of her family and friends to become a revolutionary a necessary part of a noble journey, or was it a thoughtless and selfish act?  Is her story ultimately tragic, or did she succeed?  I am still thinking about it and while I may never know the answers to the questions it raised, I have thoroughly enjoyed contemplating them.<br />The women of the novel, from Elphaba to her self-righteous sister, the armless Nessarose (who becomes the Wicked Witch of the East), to Nanny, the nursemaid to them both, to Glinda, Elphaba's girlhood friend and the shallow society girl who becomes the Good Witch of the North, are all strong characters who are well drawn and who all evolve as the novel progresses.  Each deals with life under her own terms. But in the society of Oz, this does not always make a woman a success.<br />Gregory Maguire has managed to make one of the most frighteningly evil icons of literature into a sympathetic and even vulnerable character. I will never see the Wicked Witch in the same way again.<br />There is so much to say about this book and it is difficult to do so in this small space.  Nothing is clear -- everything is questioned and there are many gray areas.  That is why I found it fascinating.  I will probably think about this one for a good while to come.lhood friend and the shallow society girl who becomes the Good Witch of the North, are all strong characters who are well drawn and who all evolve as the novel progresses.  Each deals with life under her own terms. But in the society of Oz, this does not always make a woman a success.<br />Gregory Maguire has managed to make one of the most frighteningly evil icons of literature into a sympathetic and even vulnerable character. I will never see the Wicked Witch in the same way again.   <br />There is so much to say about this book and it is difficult to do so in this small space.  Nothing is clear -- everything is questioned and there are many gray areas.  That is why I found it fascinating.  I will probably think about this one for a good while to come.	2003-09-09
US	50683815	R578Q1PG8ZOZ0	0966416155	102927977	Pacific Crest Trail Data Book (3rd Ed.)	Books	5	40	42	N	Y	Couldn't Be Better	I can't think of anything this guide has left out.  It provides not only thorough trail descriptions and maps for each segment that are detailed and clear, but also a history of the trail, both natural and historic, advice on planning your trip, and a complete list of agencies to contact for trail permits.  I appreciate the details regarding flora and fauna, as well as advice from everything to supply stations to how to deal with bears.  I don't believe that I have ever seen a more thorough and complete trail guide.	2003-09-09
US	50683815	R2DBACTHFD29PT	031228375X	162596119	Wintering: A Novel of Sylvia Plath	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Astoundingly Beautiful	This novel is an utterly amazing piece of work. Beautifully written, it goes straight to the heart of Sylvia Plath, a tortured genius whose poetry so aptly depicted the inner demons with whom she fought for all of her short life. The book uses not only the facts of Ms. Plath's life, but also the imagery and symbols of her poetry, interwoven so completely and skillfully that the novel becomes a perfect fictional character study of a real-life person. It would help to have a copy of Plath's posthumously published book of poetry, \\"Ariel,\\" to refer to as you read the book. The titles of the chapters are those of most of the poems of \\"Ariel\\" and the themes, images, and symbols are parallel. As you read her life, Sylvia Plath's inner thoughts are revealed in even more depth by her emotionally charged and intelligent poems.<br />Ted Hughes edited \\"Ariel\\" after Sylvia Plath committed suicide, and was criticized for, among other things, leaving out some of the poetry she had written in the days before her death. It is a testament to the power of those poems, Plath's character and of the circumstances of her death that Ted Hughes was never able to free himself of the spectre of his first wife or of her work. The poems of \\"Ariel\\" present, with frightening clarity and remarkable directness, the unraveling of a woman's mind and the unapologetic anger, pain, and sorrow she felt when she stared, open-eyed, into her own soul.<br />\\"Wintering\\" is not a biography. It is a very creative novel which goes straight to the heart and mind of one of the 20th Century's greatest women poets. It is gut-wrenching and poignant, wonderfully evocative of a place and time, and incredibly perceptive in its characterization of a woman who tried to have hope even though she was haunted by death all of her life.<br />Even if you are not familiar with Sylvia Plath or her poetry (and I had to admit, the last time I read any of her poetry was in grad school, years ago), if you appreciate well written literature, and have the courage to look into the soul of a woman who was utterly tormented by the fear that she would lose all she had come to see as the \\"miracle\\" of her life, only to have that fear realized, then I urge you to read this wonderful book.terature, and have the courage to look into the soul of a woman who was utterly tormented by the fear that she would lose all she had come to see as the \\"miracle\\" of her life, only to have that fear realized, then I urge you to read this wonderful book.	2003-03-21
US	50683815	RWPAXONGAPETB	0786886323	399419494	Carter Beats the Devil	Books	4	5	6	N	N	History, Mystery & Magic	Glen David Gold has woven a seductive and very entertaining tale which uses fact (often stretched to the limit and just as often totally skewed, but delightfully so) mingled skillfully with fiction.  Its protagonist, the self-proclaimed Carter the Great, was a real-life magician who entertained during Vaudeville's Golden Age.  The world of Vaudevillian stage magic,including its often eccentric cast of characters and dazzling effects, is created in rich detail and provides a backdrop which contrasts with the often lonely and melancholy life of Mr. Carter himself.  We see the magician grow from a curious child to a clever and resourceful adult; we watch his career take off due to his creative and spectacular use of magic to entertain and to allow his audience to escape from the dull world of reality.  This escape is as much for Carter's benefit as for his audience, and while everyone knows the \\"magic\\" is but an illusion, they joyfully and willingly enter into the deception.<br />Carter becomes embroiled in the mystery revolving around the death of President Warren G. Harding and thus he becomes a shadowy and elusive fugitive of sorts, playing cat-and-mouse with the Secret Service (which consists of an awfully villanous cast of characters of its own).  Through an imaginative blending of historical fact and pure whimsy, Gold manages to weave a tale that is absolutely and purely entertaining.  His Carter is a man of depth, tortured by guilt,  who searches for inner peace and who can find real happiness when he is on the stage, creating a world of awe inspiring illusion for his audiences.<br />The plot moves fairly well and even with all the twists and turns, it never became confusing for me.  Pay careful attention, though, or in the maze of details you may neglect to pick up on something important.  Allow yourself to enter this magic world.  Suspend your disbelief and let your imagination take flight.  Go with Mr. Carter and let him amaze you.	2003-03-21
US	50683815	R1V038UXWJZZTA	0060535229	416657694	Enemy Women: A Novel	Books	3	11	12	N	N	The Civil War Made Personal	I bought this book on tape before I took a long road trip a few weeks ago.  The story is one that I have never heard told before -- that of a female taken prisoner during the Civil War. I never even knew about such women, or the prisons that housed them, until this novel.  It is therefore an intersting perspective on the war and its devastating effect on the county, its families and the individuals who not only fought in it, but who were left behind.<br />  Adair Colley is a young Missouri woman comes from a family whose father, a judge, is apolitical and who hopes to keep his family protected and apart from the war.  This is not to be the case, of course, and his family is torn asunder when he is beaten and taken prisoner, the family home ransacked, the barn burned and the children set out to survive as best they can.  Adair is a feisty 18 year old who is taken prisoner when she is betrayed by a family of fellow travelers while she is on the road searching for her father.  Her saga thus begins; she will struggle to find her way back home while battling illness, loneliness and sorrow.  Her romance with the Major who is in charge of the prison (until he is transferred, at his request, to the battlefield) is abrupt but believable, considering the fact that many a wartime relationship began and developed quickly, and Adair is a winning young woman with guts and beauty.  A bit like Scarlett O'Hara, but more likeable by far.<br />  Each chapter begins with historical facts and commentary, as well as journal entries made during the time of the war.  This provides a vivid backdrop to the action of the novel, as well as an historical perspective that makes it all the more realistic.<br />  Adair's journey home parallells that of Major Neumann, her love interest.  They seek each other and a future,during a time when nothing was certain and so many lives, dreams and hopes were lost.  Interesting perspective, a vital and admirable female character.  I have heard this book compared to Cold Mountain, but they are really not similar, except that they take place during the Civil War.  Cold Mountain was a much more literary novel with more depth, well written and thought provoking.  This book I would consider to be more of a popular fiction, historically accurate but without the literary depth.  Entertaining nonetheless, and the perspective was fascinating.ook compared to Cold Mountain, but they are really not similar, except that they take place during the Civil War.  Cold Mountain was a much more literary novel with more depth, well written and thought provoking.  This book I would consider to be more of a popular fiction, historically accurate but without the literary depth.  Entertaining nonetheless, and the perspective was fascinating.	2003-03-13
US	50683815	R3O5IDU1LML746	0156001411	770567673	The Gospel According to Jesus Christ	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Poignant, Provocative & Thought  Provoking	This re-telling of the life of Christ is a multi-layered masterpiece in the guise of a simple tale, that of the life of Christ on earth.  A story told by a bemused skeptic, it is clever and tragic at the same time.  Jesus is portrayed from his humble birth until his pre-ordained death and is seen as a simple man who wished only to live his life and who sought to free himself of the mantle of the martyr but who ultimately realized that his destiny was set by God and that he had no choice in the matter.  God and the Devil are the puppeteers who pull the strings in Jesus' life and they both know, even in their constant competing with one another,  that they cannot exist without the other.  Thus, one of the many questions this fascinating novel ponders is the nature of Good vs. that of Evil and how in many respects they parallel one another.  God is capricious and selfish, sometimes seeming to ignore blithely the pain and suffering He can inflict on mankind and seeking to have his son be a martyr so that He himself can rule the entire earth. The Devil is the one who teaches Jesus a great deal of what he must learn in order to live his life.  The other lessons he is taught by Mary of Magdala, a prostitute who nonetheless understands the true nature of love. The narrator constantly asks taunting questions about God's motives, as well as those of man.  As a skeptic myself, I thoroughly enjoyed this book and its exploration of the many philosophical \\"gray areas\\" and basic, straightforward questions about the nature of God and of faith.  Fascinating reading, classic Saramago.  I loved it from start to finish and underlined passage after passage. An amazing and provocative work about a simple man whose philosophy became the basis for a religion, but who was often misunderstood when he was alive and is often still misunderstood today.	2003-02-04
US	50683815	R1LDZ766XTRCNR	0385264682	752216879	Palace of Desire: The Cairo Trilogy, Volume 2 (Cairo Trilogy II)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The Saga Continues	In this, the second novel of the Cairo Trilogy (although I hesitate to call it that, since I now see the &quot;trilogy&quot; more as a novel in its entirety, which is what Mahfouz apparently preferred it to be), the movement of the narrative is more toward introspection, as we enter the mind of the youngest member of the family, Kamal.  Kamal is a philosophically and romantically minded young man, an idealist who wants to be a teacher in spite of his father's strong opposition and the fact that the profession he seeks to enter gets little respect from his friends and the society in which he lives.  His openness to the new ideas (such as evolution) stands in direct opposition to his father's staunch defense of the old ways and the old religious beliefs.<br />While sometimes I found the narrative a bit slow (too much of Kamal's ruminations on the nature of love, for example), I still enjoyed this section of the saga.  I got a feel for Mahfouz' world view and a further education on the Middle Eastern mind.  Egypt continues in a turmoil which parallels that of the young Kamal.  Europe beckons, taking his best friend from him. The Western Influence is a source of pain and curiosity at the same time.  More and more the reader comes to see why the Middle East views the West with scepticism and scorn.<br />Kamal's father begins to slide into infirmity, losing physical strength but not inner passion, and the family will soon no doubt have to deal with the problems related to the possible loss of its patriarch.<br />As always, well written, compelling narrative, for the most part.  I will continue to complete the trilogy by reading &quot;Sugar Street.&quot;  This family saga is one I want to complete.	2002-11-30
US	50683815	RYGLPZBN3B9F1	0385264666	603947329	Palace Walk: The Cairo Trilogy, Volume 1	Books	5	19	19	N	N	The Heart of a Family, the Soul of a Country	I have had a copy of Palace Walk in my book pile for about 10 years, but finally got around to reading it.  What a fool I was to have waited so long to enjoy such a perfectly written work of literary art!  I suppose I was intimidated by the fact that it was about modern Egypt, but Mahfouz is such a good writer that his reader is brought into this world and; aside from a few confusing allusions here and there, the book is accessible to the Western reader as well as to a Middle Eastern reader.  The characters are universal and at the same time, purely Egyptian.<br />This is a story of a family whose lives and fortunes mirror those of the country they live in. Egypt, in the years following World War I, is in turmoil, undergoing historical transition, moving painfully toward independence.<br />In the home of the Jawad family, the father, Ahmad Abd al-Jawad, a merchant, rules with stern, unrelenting dominance, while enjoying a secret, separate life of complete, selfish, sensual enjoyment.  His obedient wife, Amina, on the other hand, serves him and her family as a whole in every capacity, unquestioningly, selflessly.  His children, three sons and two daughters, fear and love their father and worship their mother.  They live the life of a upper middle class Egyptian family.<br />But they, like their country, teeter on the brink of change.  The black and white, unquestioning religious and social faith of the past is being replaced by a new world, one in which all the rules of the past are being called into question.  This new world, with its turmoil, will exact a tragic price from this family.<br />Time passes, change occurs.  Each member of the family reacts in his/her own way, reflecting the change in the country they live in.<br />The characters are each interesting, completely human, the story a tale well told.  I am now 2/3 of the way through the second book in the trilogy, Palace of Desire, and my interest in the story and its characters has not flagged. I have no doubt that I will continue on the finish the trilogy, for I find this a fascinating read.<br />I'm just sorry I took so long to get around to it!no doubt that I will continue on the finish the trilogy, for I find this a fascinating read.<br />I'm just sorry I took so long to get around to it!	2002-11-18
US	50683815	R2SUGKOC4NUR4B	0679744665	686456715	The Moor's Last Sigh	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Family, Insanity, Magic &amp; Art	What a master of magical allegory Rushdie is!  The only other book of his I'd read was &quot;The Ground Beneath Her Feet&quot; and I was immediately and completely swept away into his mythical tale which contained elements of the ancient and the contemporary, blended into a modern allegory of love, loss and memory.  Again, with &quot;The Moor's Last Sigh,&quot; Rushdie weaves a tale which encompasses the confused and sad history of India, the pain, joy and strength of her people, and the magical world of mystery and darkness that lies beneath, in the world of the imagination.  The Moor cannot belong to the world he inhabits; his geneology doesn't fit, nor does his physiology.  He is old before his time, due to his aging at double the rate of other humans, and his family history leaves him alienated in the society which he longs to be a part of.  The characters are well drawn and all are unusual, to say the least. From his artist mother, a wild child herself, to his mafia-baron-like father and his sisters, Ina, Mina, and Mina, the family is portrayed as a source of life and love as well as of misery and embarrassment.  All of India's social and economic problems are revealed in the adventures (and mis-adventures!)of this unusual family group.  To discuss this novel's elements fully would take far more space than I have here, but suffice it to say that if you like a challenge, I'd recommend that you leap into this fascinating book.  I personally enjoy the intellectual exercises necessary to fully comprehend Rushdie's prose, and even then I'm sure that I miss out on a great deal of it.  Nonetheless, his work is well worth the effort and a joy to read.	2002-10-01
US	50683815	R1NN7RW2VW7VFW	014028091X	440273884	T.C. Boyle Stories	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Wonderful Collection	T.C. Boyle is one of my favorite short story writers; he has a marvelously skewed view of life and his characters often find themselves in situations that the average human being encounters only in nightmares or drug-enduced reveries. He illuminates the basic truths of life in with an imagination that is unlike any other writer I've read. This collection spans the broad spectrum of his short stories; there is a little bit of everything here, love/hate, death, relationships, life in general.  From the whimsical to the deadly serious, these stories will capture the imagination of the reader whose mind is open to them.	2002-07-23
US	50683815	R3J56R43QHI9NS	156512295X	891583066	New Stories from the South 2000: The Year's Best	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Stories of the Modern South	Every year, I purchase New Stories from the South, but I always buy last year's, in paperback, then I might take another few months to read it.  So I've just finished the 2000 issue and will start on 2001 one of these days (I have it in my pile of books somewhere).  I never regret having purchased or read these anthologies.  They always include good writers, both new and familiar, and the stories are an interesting combination of themes, locales and styles.  The South is a part, sometimes subtle, but always there, and the characters are seldom sterotypical, their stories never trite. Pick up any of these issues.  The stories are timeless.	2002-07-23
US	50683815	R1HRFZ63YUP7UT	140003065X	366389334	A Fine Balance	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Life in the Face of Despair	I finished this book a couple of days ago but have been unable to sit and write about it until now.  I have to say that I could not put it down; I thoroughly enjoyed reading it and I was fascinated by its cast of characters. The setting of the scene, the descriptions of the cities and the villages was detailed and mesmerizing, and I learned a great deal about life in India during the \\"Emergency\\" during which the people suffered under Indira Ghandi's apparently inept attempts to bring some sort of order to an incredibly poor and overpopulated country with a corrupt system of government and an antiquated, cruel caste system. The atempted \\"cure\\" almost destroyed a nation that was already torn apart.<br />The four main characters, Dina, the strong willed, hardened widow, Maneck, the sheltered young student who comes to live with her, Ishvar and Om, the tailors fleeing the horrible caste system of their village and hoping to build a new life, are well drawn and sympathetic.  The array of supporting characters reveal a great deal about the best and worst that mankind is capable of:  Beggars, innocents, con men, landlords, thugs, gangsters and revolutionaries. In the end, no one is perfect, and each person (and even animal!) must do his or her best to survive in a world that is seldom fair, often cruel, and never predictable. These people somehow go through their tumultuous lives with grace and courage, always seeking something to  hope for, some reason to go on surviving, some future that is better than the dismal present.  I could see the strength of the people and thought that Mistry did a wonderful job portraying a nation's anguish through the characters he created.<br />Having said all that, and having enjoyed reading it as much as I did, I have to say that I was ultimately disappointed by this novel.  It seemed like there was little redemption, or hope, for anyone and that every single bad thing that could happen to a poor person in India happened to these 4 characters personally.  It was just too much, and in the end, the suffering inflicted on them was just too heavy handed for me as a reader to accept.  There were also far too many incredible coincidences that seemed too often contrived.  The writing was clean and well done, and the setting of the tale was incredibly well drawn.  It just seemed as if Mistry were trying too hard to explain the beauty and pain that is his India.  In seeking the balance between hope and despair, he found only despair. Characters either survived, or were destroyed, each in their own way, but the ending was totally unsatisfying for me and I felt that it weakened all that had gone before.  That is ultimately why I have had such a hard time writing about this book.  I wish I could have been able to say more that was positive about a novel that I sincerely enjoyed reading and about a work that is obviously well-received.<br />Perhaps I am like the reader in the Balzac quote at the start of the book and I am blaming the author for my own \\"insensitivity, accusing him of wild exaggeration and flights of fancy.\\"  All is probably true, and I can tell that Mistry feels very deeply about his subject, but it seems to me that fiction should illuminate the truth in such a way as to make it seem more real, while at the same time illustrating the basic truths of existence.  To merely drive the sad truth into the ground, without giving one's characters at least some feeble hope for redemption, seems like a sad and wasted effort.rs personally.  It was just too much, and in the end, the suffering inflicted on them was just too heavy handed for me as a reader to accept.  There were also far too many incredible coincidences that seemed too often contrived.  The writing was clean and well done, and the setting of the tale was incredibly well drawn.  It just seemed as if Mistry were trying too hard to explain the beauty and pain that is his India.  In seeking the balance between hope and despair, he found only despair. Characters either survived, or were destroyed, each in their own way, but the ending was totally unsatisfying for me and I felt that it weakened all that had gone before.  That is ultimately why I have had such a hard time writing about this book.  I wish I could have been able to say more that was positive about a novel that I sincerely enjoyed reading and about a work that is obviously well-received.  <br />Perhaps I am like the reader in the Balzac quote at the start of the book and I am blaming the author for my own \\"insensitivity, accusing him of wild exaggeration and flights of fancy.\\"  All is probably true, and I can tell that Mistry feels very deeply about his subject, but it seems to me that fiction should illuminate the truth in such a way as to make it seem more real, while at the same time illustrating the basic truths of existence.  To merely drive the sad truth into the ground, without giving one's characters at least some feeble hope for redemption, seems like a sad and wasted effort.	2002-07-23
US	50683815	R20XDGC7M5X5MA	0312421265	101663882	The Good German	Books	4	6	8	N	N	More Than a Mystery	I found this novel to be fascinating from the start.  The rich detail of Canon's language captured the utter devastation of post-war Berlin and brought me immediately into the heart of the story.  \\"The Good Geman,\\" as with most good novels, works on a variety of levels; this one has an amazing number of plots and characters: the mystery of who killed the soldier who washes up on the shore in the middle of the Potsdam Conference, at the very feet of the victors; the story of the American journalist and his married German lover, as well as her scientist husband (is he or is he not a Nazi?); the German Jew who turned her fellow Jews in to the SS to save her mother and her child; the myriad of personalities and stories, for better or worse, brought together because of war; the moral enigma involved in dividing the spoils of a devastated country whose defeat no one is sorry for; and the strange bedfellows which are formed and who are forced to deal with one another to effect the final victory.  The roots of the Cold War are brought to the surface and revealed here, with Russians, Americans, British and Germans all playing a game of cat and mouse in an attempt to gain the upper hand.  You get the sense that no one will win this one.  From the desperate Germans who sell everything from their bodies to their dishes in order to survive, to the smug military men who have no qualms about buying whatever they want with their cigarettes, the people who populate this bleak landscape look with horror to the past and with trepidation to the future.<br />I found the story sometimes confusing, so much detail and so many questions.  But I stayed with it and was satisfied.  An excellent effort.  Asked many interesting questions that I am still thinking about.  But I am fascinated by moral ambiguity and this novel is full of that.	2002-06-30
US	50683815	R169K538J2XYRW	0670030058	14543326	After the Plague: AND OTHER STORIES	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Another Excellent Anthology	I admire T.C. Boyle's short stories very much and appreciate his irony and the skewed world view he illustrates so well in his fiction.  The quality of the stories in this collection did not disappoint me; however, I was disappointed to see at least two stories (&quot;Mexico&quot; and &quot;The Love of My Life&quot;) that I had already read in previous versions of his works.  But no matter; whether you are new to Boyle or a seasoned reader like me, if you are ready to take an off-centered look at the world, dive into Boyle.  I think you'll really enjoy the trip.	2002-02-03
US	50683815	REOK70GSEF9WN	0312282990	383312801	The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay	Books	4	3	4	N	N	The American Dream Meets Reality	I don't know why I decided to read this book; I suppose the cover caught my eye and then the description nabbed me.  In any event, I'm glad I did.  While the story does ramble a bit and could have used a bit of tightening, the characters and the imaginative tale kept my interest, and it seldom flagged.  Sammy and Joe, while not your everyday male characters, are nonetheless &quot;Everymen&quot; who typify the American Dream, and who actually get to live it, with all the good and bad that go along with that dream (Be careful what you wish for. . .).  The novel explores many issues:  the irony of tragedy that can accompany the life devoted to creating comics, the creative process itself, the search for love, the isolation we each must experience in order to be able to finally connect with our fellow human beings, the search for happiness in monetary success, the hypocrisy of bigotry in a free society, etc.  These are all addressed in an imaginative and detailed story.  I must say that, while I consider myself very well read and educated, I too was a bit put off by Chabon's almost whimsical use of obtuse vocabulary; but I love words and just kept a dictionary nearby.  That did, however, tend to interrupt my reading and the flow of the narrative at times.  Overall, I believe that this is a book that can be read for entertainment, but is best enjoyed when one savors the metaphor, symmbols and imagery that work with the likeable characters to create a tale that illustrates well the painful process of maturing that inevitably results when we must learn to temper our dreams with reality.	2002-02-03
US	50683815	RKOJEVE4ILCCY	0449006972	71254966	Gertrude and Claudius: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Another Side of Hamlet	This book is a fascinating intellectual exercise, although not a particularly emotional one.  Having said that, I will say that I thoroughly enjoyed seeing Gertrude &amp; Claudius fleshed out, more human, than they ever were in Shakespeare.  Gertrude is seen as a sensitive, loving woman who grows from girlhood to middle age with a grace that could not have been easy, considering her circumstance.  She exists always in relation to the men in her life:  first, her powerful father, Rorik, who arranges her marriage to Horwendil, who in his turn becomes king, thanks to his marriage to her, her surly son, Hamlet, and even her father's chancellor, Coriambus.  Once her husband's brother/her illicit lover becomes her husband and again, thanks to her, king, their relationship changes and Gertrude has the perception to see the change in the man she was devoted enough to to risk her life to love.  She is just beginning to come to terms with this change as the book ends.  As a woman and a queen, she doubts herself often, but remains true to herself in all circumstances.  This is an interesting character study, as well as an enjoyable tour de force for Shakespeare fans.  I wouldn't recommend it to anyone who is not fond of the play, or who doesn't care for Updike.  Although I am not particularly a fan of Updike (I find some of his work dry and pretentious), I very much enjoyed this book.  It ends when it ought to, and if you are not familiar with the Hamlet legend, you will fail to appreciate the wonderful irony of its last lines.  Chilling, yet satisfying, the story is one that I am glad that Updike chose to tell.	2001-11-14
US	50683815	R1VY8A1MFZ6JPJ	0770428231	75368334	Cat's Eye	Books	4	55	59	N	N	A Haunting Novel	Other reviewers have used the word &quot;haunting&quot; to describe this novel, and I must agree.  This book stayed with me long after I finished it, and compelled me to read even when I was too tired to do so.  At first, I couldn't decide whether I liked it or not.  Elaine, the protagonist,  does not come across as a strong character; indeed, she is almost painfully introspective and introverted.  Her inner life is rich, however, and her ruminations about her family and friends are quite perceptive.  So I kept reading and allowed Elaine to reveal herself to me.  As a girl, Elaine grows up in a family that is unusual, but loving and supportive of her.  Her &quot;friends&quot; are another story.  I don't think I've ever read anything that describes so well the cruelty that young girls are capable of.  The social and psychological aspects of growing up are no better shown than here.  However, this is the strongest part of the book.  Elaine's adult life, colored as it was by her past, is not as richly portrayed, but she remains an interesting person.  Her art is her catharsis, as personal and as difficult for an outsider to understand as is the artist herself.  This book is an eerie coming-of-age tale, told with poetic beauty and sorrow.	2001-10-21
US	50683815	RF1ECKYASUXVQ	0916685780	739605778	The International Directory of Little Magazines and Small Presses 2000-2001, 36th Edition	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	An Excellent Resource	I have never used a directory that is as thorough, up-to-date and as easy to use as this one is. It has never let me down. The indexes are especially helpful and the categories are most useful. In my opinion, there is not any guide for writers that is better.  I believe that it is the most complete and vast array of (as its title says)literary magazines and small presses available.  It provides no only the basic information (name, address, etc.) but also information regarding specific requirements for submissions, including any that are unique to each publisher.  The Regional and Subject Indexes are very helpful, saving a lot of search time.  If you are interested in publishing in small presses, this resource is a must have.	2001-10-21
US	50683815	R2I3L9UDTMFZSC	0312169949	575145458	Same Place, Same Things: Stories	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	The South without the Stereotypes	Being of Cajun heritage, I enjoy reading Southern literature, but at its worst, it is a bad mix of standard stereotypes: white trash, hound dogs, trailer parks and bad men and loose women. Gim Gautreaux gets it right! He gently (often humorously) takes a good, long look at Louisiana, and his vision is sharp without getting mired in cliches. The title story is dark and poignant, and its characters are interesting and multi-dimensional. I want to read more of Mr. Gautreaux; his view of the world is just quirky enough to be fascinating, but not so strange that I don't want to visit that place! And besides, I never knew anyone who ever actually wrote about Catahoula!	2001-08-29
US	50683815	R156IVBR7RJ9KI	0807126802	641415151	Ignatius Rising: The Life of John Kennedy Toole	Books	4	28	31	N	Y	A Fascinating Look at a Tormented Soul	Ever since I read &quot;A Confederacy of Dunces&quot; and heard the legend about how it got published, I have been interested in the character of its author. This biography provides an interesting look at the life of John Kennedy Toole and sheds some light on a complex man whose inner demons finally destroyed his spirit and ultimately, his life. His mother, probably the greatest influence on John, is drawn as vividly as he is, and comes across as a fascinating and maddening woman who nonetheless always believed in her son's work. Their relationship is at the core of John's life as well as his pain. The ultimate tragedy for us readers is that we won't ever see any more of his work. John's tragedy was that he thought no one would ever want to. A well documented character study that is a must read for anyone who is a fan of Toole's masterpiece!	2001-08-29
US	50683815	R22UZBPA9529AT	0393050424	759689844	The Death of Vishnu: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Humor & Tragedy	This book was one I avoided at first, fearing perhaps that I would fail to adequately comprehend or appreciate its Indian philosophy or understand the motives of its characters. I knew little of life in Bombay, but I have been reading more Indian authors lately and have been impressed by the timeless and universal apeal of their works. \\"The Death of Vishnu\\" is such a story. The plot involves the petty concerns of two families who don't quite know what to do with Vishnu, the homeless man who lies dying on their stairway landing, but it also involves the spiritual journeys of several other characters, including Vishnu himself. Everything is here: concerns of physical well-being, fear of death, affairs of the heart, the complexity of social interaction, as well as the dark side of religious conflict and the toll it can take on society and on the individual. This is a clever social satire, as well as a compassionate look at our human weaknesses. The reader can laugh and lament on the same page, and while it is comforting to know that we are all, at heart, so much alike, it is also discomforting to know that, in spite of our best intentions, we can also be quite self-centered. I wholeheartedly recommend this book, especially to any reader who may be shying away from Indian literature. It is an accessible and fascinating introduction to the genre, as well as a crash course in the social and religious conflicts that have plagued India for years and that continue to cause problems even today.	2001-08-29
US	50683815	R21RBQ2E1C5KPR	0812931130	859192771	A Passion for Books: A Book Lover's Treasury of Stories, Essays, Humor, Lore, and Lists on Collecting, Reading, Borrowing, Lending, Caring for, and Appreciating Books	Books	4	74	77	N	N	A Harmless Madness	This is a charming, amusing, often poignant glimpse into the mind of the bibliophile, and I, for one, was reassured that I am certainly not alone in my addiction to books (even the smell of them!).  I have far more books than I can ever read in one lifetime, unless I am held prisoner in my home for the next 50 years and have nothing else to occupy my time (come to think of it, that doesn't sound half bad), but I must keep buying them, because I not only love to read, but I love the heft, the texture, the smell, the look of a book, and have ever since I can remember.  I was heartbroken when I had to give back my first textbook (which I thought was a gift to me!), a reader called &quot;Spot,&quot;  and perhaps that childhood trauma is still with me!  So I surround myself with MY books, and my husband does the same, and we read as much as we can, and it gives us great pleasure.  This book has essays, stories, lists (I felt guilty when I hadn't read enough of the books, or, horrors! hadn't heard of some of them!, and even the gentle angst of the guilty book thief or two. Each writer has his own perspective on his addiction to books.  Anyone who doesn not care to read has a gaping hole in his soul, I think, and will not care for this book.  The rest of us can take consolation in reading the well-chosen words of those who can articulate what this gentle madness feels like and how life-enriching it truly is.	2001-06-29
US	50683815	R1Q0HRDVMR1PHK	0767902890	852411699	The Things They Carried	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	The Power -- and Pain -- of Memory	This is one of the most powerful collections of short stories I have ever read, and I've read quite a few!  I keep going back to it time and again, for the imagery, the characters, the deep emotional impact of the stories.  Tim O'Brien has fashioned a collection of stories that, while each can stand on its own, work together to form an entire work of fiction which expresses the strength of memory and the healing that comes with working through the most painful of those memories.  The setting is, of course, the Vietnam war, but, like all good fiction, the stories are about much more than war.  Human drama, played out in a hellish environment, reveals much about man's strengths, weaknesses, and emotions.  As Tim O'Brien says, there are no morals here, nor should there be.  Life has many gray areas, and when we see only the black and white, we can only become lost and confused.  In struggling to survive, the men of Alpha Company find what is really important in their lives.  Death is a powerful force, but so is love and loyalty.  Powerful and disturbing, this is a beautiful work, one I highly recommend.  I think it is already a classic, and deservedly so.	2001-05-16
US	50683815	R2WE93V13DWOP4	0786864133	62030752	Napalm & Silly Putty	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Old and Cranky, but Still Funny!	I've been a fan of Carlin's since I was in high school in the late 60's. I love his biting cynicism and sarcasm, as well as his keen intellect and sharp perception of the good and bad aspects of the modern human.  I, too, do not suffer fools gladly, and love to laugh (better than crying) at the foibles of human nature.  However, I have noticed that GC has gotten a bit angrier as he ages.  Perhaps the loss of his wife left him wounded, perhaps he's just getting older and less tolerant (I can relate to that!).  But I just try to overlook that and laugh at the GC I love best.  Therefore, I laughed out loud at almost every page of this book.  Sure, some of it is &quot;used&quot; material, and sometimes his rants seem a bit overdone, but I laugh each time I hear him or read him, and so I don't care.  Maybe I'm a bit (okay, a lot) cynical and crusty myself, so I can forgive George for it.  He still can make me laugh at myself and at all my fellow human beings.  If more of us listened to what he was really saying, we might be a bit better off.  The classic satirist, GC is least appreciated by those he makes the most fun of -- the &quot;trendy, fruity&quot; ones among us who can't bear to see themselves as they really are! (He must be talking about someone else!)	2001-05-11
US	50683815	R3COP5UV5PLTXK	0517884941	388755271	Moosewood Restaurant Low-Fat Favorites: Flavorful Recipes for Healthful Meals	Books	5	65	66	N	N	Vegetarian That Even Meat Eaters Can Appreciate	I have several Moosewood cookbooks, but have sometimes found that the recipes can be complicated and time-consuming, and can involve ingredients that are not always easy to find.  This book, however, contains good recipes that are not only healthy, but also relatively easy and quick to make.  From soups to salads to entrees, I haven't tried anything that I haven't liked, and I really appreciate the effort that was made to make the dishes low fat.  Low fat or not, the recipes included here are for food that is both flavorful and hearty.  A must-try for the vegetarian or even the meat eater who wants to try to include some vegetarian meals in his/her diet.  I find myself turning to this book when I want to make a meal for friends who are not necessarily vegetarian, and they are always pleasantly surprised and ask for the recipe!  These meals would encourage even the hard core carnivores to take a break and eat some veggies!	2001-05-01
US	50683815	RNRR2L2KIFJFG	0156007754	787923440	Blindness (Harvest Book)	Books	4	16	19	N	N	A Harrowing, but Beautiful Book	What an amazing work of fiction!  This is a very tough read, not only because of Saramago's use of language, but also because of its subject matter.  The language, however, perfectly matches the themes of the book and the characters, while stumbling blindly (literally and figuratively!), attempting to exist in a strange new world of confusion and chaos, each have something to teach the thoughtful reader.  The characters have only their personalities and physical traits to identify them; none are named. I was reminded of works like the &quot;Canterbury Tales,&quot; &quot;Pilgrim's Progress,&quot;  and even &quot;The Fairie Queene&quot; in that this novel is also the tale of a journey, and a parable for our times.  In their movement through blindness, despair, pain, frustration and, eventually, redemption and/or death, the characters mirror the  best and worst in all of us.  Each in his own way is an &quot;Everyman,&quot; showing us how each individual can have an impact on the society as a whole, for better or for worse.<br />The blindness is a disease of the body and the spirit, contagious and ubiquitous.  It is to be feared not only for the obvious reasons, because it takes away sight, but for what it reveals in each person it strikes.  Stripped of their sight, these people are then forced to come to grips with their individual demons.  Some manage better than others, rising to the occasion, while others fall from grace quickly and almost effortlessly.<br />Sometimes I had to take a break from my reading, because the book was so intense and I got so wrapped up in the experiences of the characters that I often felt like I was in the middle of it myself.  Very tough to take, sometimes, but so compelling that I had to continue to read.<br />&quot;Blindness&quot; is the first book I've ever read by Jose Saramago (I, too, am wondering why it's taken me so long to discover him!), but after having read it, I've already purchased &quot;Baltasar &amp; Blimunda&quot; and &quot;The Gospel According to Jesus Christ.&quot;  Saramago is obviously an inventive and thought-provoking writer, one whose works I'd like to continue to explore.quot;The Gospel According to Jesus Christ.&quot;  Saramago is obviously an inventive and thought-provoking writer, one whose works I'd like to continue to explore.	2001-04-07
US	50683815	R39LAS4CP15GJT	0345436911	441036137	The Dress Lodger (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Death Sets the Tone	While I foung the characters in this book interesting (their inner conflicts and character quirks made them truly human, not just stereotypes), the most prominent &quot;character&quot; was Death itself.  It resides in the home, streets, the clothing of the people, the very air of the town. The voices of the dead speak clearly and are responded to. In their struggle to overcome grinding poverty and despair, the characters' primary battle is just to keep alive.  Most of us who are fortunate enough to live comfortably, in this century, can't imagine the poverty the characters in this book experience, but Ms. Holman does a splendid job of describing their desperate lives to us.  Each of the characters, including, and especially, Dr. Chiver, must grapple with his/her own conscience to determine how best to exist in the world of Victorian England in the midst of a cholera epidemic.  The combination of satisfaction and pain Dr. Chiver feels upon obtaining a corpse for his anatomy students culminates in the horrifying final scene in which he must at last come to terms with, and face the consequences of, his own actions and attitudes.  The gulf between the rich and the poor was wide and deep; neither understood the other, and we can see, in Chiver's fiancee, the forces that were at work to bridge that gulf.  No one was portrayed as all bad or all good, and that was what made the people in this book so interesting to me. I found the subject and the plot fascinating and refreshingly different; however, the tidy ending left me dissatisfied.  In my opinion, the ending weakened all that had gone before.  Having said that, I still think it's a good read.  Life vs. death, right vs. wrong, the gray areas that are reality are examined in a very interesting way in this book.	2001-03-09
US	50683815	R1VQXCSCZ0CNYU	0060196076	324624246	Blonde: A Novel	Books	4	5	7	N	N	It's Not Just About Marilyn	This book, an amazing feat of reality-based fiction,was alternatively horrifying, thought-provoking, and ultimately supremely tragic. Any reader who approaches it needs to bear in mind that it is a work of literature and, as such, requires an open mind to be receptive to its message. Anyone expecting all the facts in perfect order,or expecting some lurid Hollywood tale in Screenplay language will be disappointed, because that's not what this book is about. It's the story of an American legend, a screen star and sex symbol,but it's also much more than that.  It also speaks of the treatment of women by our society, which values beauty over brains, by examining the loss of one woman's innocence, which leads to the destruction (literally and figuratively)of her as a person. Norma Jeane/Marilyn becomes Everywoman.  The men who are individuals (for better or worse) have names; the men who are symbols have titles.  It doesn't matter what their names are or were, or if she really slept with them or not. They all had a role to play in MM's rise and fall; they all had power over her.  Her public had power over her, too, and this also filled her with fear.  She moves through her life trying to maintain her identity, begging people to see her as Norma Jeane, but despairing that all they can see is Marilyn, who isn't real.  Ultimately, Marilyn wins out; this is the ultimate tragedy of the life of a legend.  It's almost a Shakespearean tragedy; as a matter of fact,if he'd been alive at the time, Shakespeare probably would have written a play about MM.  Her tale would have been just too good for him to resist.  Yes,it's long, and yes, it probably could have used some more editing, but I found it fascinating and came away with a new understanding not only of the goddess we call Marilyn, but also of our society's fear of sex and its paradoxical fascination with,and ultimate destruction of,the sex symbol that we loved to death.	2001-01-31
US	50683815	R2Y65MAO26ZVYK	0786707682	912147982	The Ultimate Jack the Ripper Companion	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Fascinating Facts	... I have not studied about Jack in depth, but have always been fascinated by these crimes and the mystery of how they were accomplished. I've often wondered what Scotland Yard might have accomplished if they'd had access to today's advanced investigative techniques and technology. I found this book very interesting, possibly because at the time I read it I hadn't investigated this topic deeply. Although I don't often read non-fiction, I picked this up at a bookstore and couldn't put it down, even with all the minute details. To me, it told me as much about Victorian England as any novel or sociological study could. The victims (and, often the witnesses) were desperately poor, outcasts from polite society whose murders were only of interest because they were so brutal, and the witnesses were often doubted because they were either prostitutes or drunks or \\"lunatics.\\" At the time they occurred, these murders brought the sordid details of life in London's East End into sharp relief and made the upright citizens of London uncomfortable. It is a fascinating study in the psychology of fear and the separation of the social classes, especially in that time. I certainly think that it is a great start to anyone who is interested in the mystery of Jack the Ripper (you can always skim over the boring details, although I was afraid to miss anything!).	2000-12-09
US	50683815	R2NSX9LNHMS67O	0375706410	663303744	Waiting: A Novel	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Weary of Waiting	While I could appreciate this novel as a good (not great)work of literature, its depiction of the dry life of the spirit in Communist China is so realistic that the reader will have a difficult time getting through it.  The protagonist is a man with divided loyalties; he has a lover who keeps waiting for him to divorce his faithful, long suffering wife in the country and he knows that he cannot do this and be completely satisfied with his decision. He waits for an opportunity to be able to have everything he wants -- both ways.  I struggled to have sympathy with this man or his impatient mistress, but they, along with the wife, are all victims of the coldly impersonal system in which they all must live their lives.  There is no freedom of the spirit in their world.  The first time I tried to read this book, I simply put it down in frustration.  I went back to it and finished it at last, but must say that it was not a book that touched me other than intellectually.  Emotionally, it was empty and dry (except for the portrayal of the poor, illiterate country wife), although I believe this was the author's intent.  A fable for our times, perhaps.	2000-12-09
US	50683815	R1RWTV4NY3H2G0	0915811812	381791390	Diet for a New America	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A Life-Altering Book	I don't think I will ever be the same after reading this book -- I was one of those people who was in the &quot;didn't want to know&quot; category when it came to the meat I ate.  I considered myself an animal rights  person, and I give generously to humane societies, etc. on a regular basis.  However, after facing the truth through John Robbins' profound and  disturbing book, I know that I will never look at what I eat in the same  way again.  We must realize that we are animals, too, and that we cannot  base our society on an inhumane system of food production that survives on  the suffering of our fellow animals.  This book did an excellent job of  explaining the food chain as it exists now and suggests ways in which we  can make positive changes for the better.	2000-01-20
US	50683815	R2EMJPAZEXF4OR	0684848783	223960215	'Tis: A Memoir	Books	3	11	13	N	N	On the Publisher's Clock	I felt that &quot;Angela's Ashes&quot; was a tale which Frank McCourt had long needed to tell, and he wrote it with care, on his own time.  The book showed this -- well crafted and beautifully written, it was a masterpiece.  However, &quot;'Tis&quot; seems to have been written under the publisher's  timeline, and it shows it.  McCourt can still tell a great yarn, and some  of his stories were still funny and poignant at the same time, but I found  the book overall to be dull and repetitive, lacking in theme and overall  structure.  Too many unanswered questions, and an abrupt end made for an  unsatisfying read.  I was curious about how he made it here in America, but  this book really didn't have the emotional punch or the structure to earn  my respect for it.  I will never forget &quot;Angela's Ashes&quot; and it's  really unfair to compare the two books, but Frank McCourt should be allowed  to tell his own stories, in his own time.  He obviously has talent and a  knack for the telling of a tale!	1999-11-30
