US	50684595	R2LW529UB8B8TB	006093736X	817493742	Krakatoa: The Day the World Exploded: August 27, 1883	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The grand scheme of things	As with his most recent book on the San Francisco Earthquake of 1906, in KRAKATOA Simon Winchester takes a cataclysm from over a century ago and uses it to delve into not simply the history of the event itself but also of almost everything you could think of it related either directly or tangentially to it, from an account of the intellectual work of Alfred Russell Wallace and the \\"Wallace Line\\" imagined across Java to the history of Dutch colonization of Indonesia. Unlike the more recent book, however, Winchester ties the different strings together much more successfully and convincingly, and brings off the kind of complex fugal narrative effects he intends through the interweaving of these storylines. Although sometimes he makes claims for which he offers little support (such as his claims as to why the aftermath of Krakatoa led to the spread of fundamentalist islam in Indonesia, for which he offers all kinds of interesting speculations but very little convincing proof), the book is still edifying and intriguing, and shows off Winchester's unique polymathy at its very best.	2005-10-10
US	50684595	R1EQXK6YLWSYDK	0060571993	630888274	A Crack in the Edge of the World: America and the Great California Earthquake of 1906	Books	3	94	104	N	N	The rough materials for a great book	Simon Winchester's love of learning and information is so incredibly infectious that even at his roughest his books do not fail to illuminate and interest. As with KRAKATOA, Winchester in A CRACK AT THE EDGE OF THE WORLD takes a momentous geological event--in this case, the great San Francisco Earthquake of 1906--and proceed to tell us as many stories leading up to and out of it as he possibly can, covering not merely accounts of the event itself (particularly the disastrous fires that came from it) but also ways of understanding the event within its multiple contexts. He tells us much about the commerical and social history of California as well as of the geology of the San Andreas Fault, Iceland, Missouri, Indonesia... s you can see, at times it _does_ get a little much. Winchester loves to amble through all these events at his own pace, but the result is a book that often reads as if it were hardly edited. His prose leaps about with weak transitions (along the lines of \\"As we have seen earlier,\\" \\"And this brings us to Enrico Caruso,\\" \\"And this is not the first time he shall appear in these pages, as we shall see,\\" etc.) and seems as irruptive and eruptive as the events he chronicles; his intriguing and edifying narrative would have surely benefited from more studied editing and more careful organization. There's a wonderful book buried in here, but as with some of Winchester's earlier books this seems rushed and undigested.	2005-10-09
US	50684595	R2CLICYT5RRCT0	0671536141	171334439	The Enchanted April	Books	5	27	28	N	N	Grace abounding	Always celebrated for its beautiful evocative setting in Portofino, THE ENCHANTED APRIL has also to some extent been dismissed as a sentimental trifle. It is not: for all its surface charm, it is also one of the most searching fictional works ever written on the nature of goodness, and its effects upon selfishness and acquisitiveness. Two Hampstead housewives, Rose Arbuthnot and Lottie Hawkins, advertise for two other women to share in the costs so that they may rent an Italian castle for the month of April and escape their loveless lives; when they and the other two women (the dazzling Lady Caroline Dester and the rigid bluestocking Mrs. Fisher) arrive at the spectacularly lovely castle, they begin to discover that not only have their spirits been refreshed but also that their value systems have changed through what amounts to the dispensation of the castle of a kind of secularized grace. Elizabeth von Arnim accomplishes this very probing study of modern British mores through the very subtle and unobtrusive psychological realist use of extended interior monologues. The result is a novel that is not only completely beguiling but actually quite thoughtful. A greatly underappreciated little gem.	2005-09-04
US	50684595	R23TV0VAIS2K1L	1401207111	371871617	JSA: The Golden Age (Justice Society of America)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Careful, intelligent, respectful, and beautifully done	This is one of the finest miniseries DC has done in years--it's debts to Alan Moore's and Dave Gibbons's WATCHMEN are clear, but it's also a work all of its own. Except for a few minor errors (the Black Canary is addressed as \\"Diana\\" not \\"Dinah\\"; the Sportsmaster is apparently killed at the end when we know he goes on to live for decades later), this work actually could fit perfectly with the previous work done on the JSA and the DC Universe and their continuity. The story involves several members of the Justice Society of America (the Atom, Green Lantern, Hourman), several members of Roy Thomas's All-Star Squadron (Liberty Belle, Johnny Quick) and several obscure 40s DC/National heroes (the Tarantula, Miss America, Manhunter) after the Second World War. A minor hero, Mr. America, has been credited with the deaths overseas of Adolf Hitler and several other Nazi supervillains; based on this fame, he runs successfully for Senate and starts an anti-Red Menace program involving the recruiting of superhumans, while most of the other heroes languish in misery, either forgotten by the public or involved in HUAC hearings. The ending is very dramatic and worth the slow unravelling of narrative surprises, and the art of Paul Smith has never been more beautifully employed than here. Most remarkable is James Robinson's surprising evocation of genuine patriotism: the courageous heroine Miss America, Joan Dale, makes a speech at the climax of the story that it is almost impossible not to feel moved after reading, as corny as that may sound. This is really DC at its finest.	2005-07-30
US	50684595	R113CXX6AWX9KP	0375758070	903070373	The Custom of the Country (Modern Library Classics)	Books	5	11	14	N	Y	Wharton's beautiful monster	The heroine of Edith Wharton's 1913 novel, Undine Spragg, is a monster of selfishness and ambition, and yet she is hard to despise. Elevated first by the money made by her cowed Midwestern parents and by her startling and all-conquering physical beauty, she comes to New York City determined to have everything she wants, but always aware of the complexities of knowing what that truly is given the multiple standards among the different wealthy communities she moves among. Her first marriage, to a scion of one of the great Old New York families, assures her utter respectability but not the kind of money and liberty she expects to have to assure her constant amusement; in order to get what she wants, there are few sacred social rules she is not willing to bend or break. The genius of the novel is its ability to move from the point of view of the victims Undine leaves behind in her wake back to Undine herself; the novel becomes not only a strong commentary on the rapaciousness and self-centeredness of Gilded Age America, but also a marvelous anthropological study of Old New York society, the nouveaux riches, and the fearsome French aristocracy (with whom Undine seems to find her greatest challenges to her will).	2005-07-17
US	50684595	R3QI3QUUQRIG9F	0812967127	823106538	The Day of the Triffids (20th Century Rediscoveries)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Gripping, strange, uneven	John Wyndham's books (such as this and THE CHRYSALIDS and THE MIDWICH CUCKOOS) are pretty much classics of the scifi genre in the UK but have not enjoyed the same status in the USA; they're very intelligently crafted and also genuinely scary. THE DAY OF THE TRIFFIDS is his most famous work, and shows his intellectual debt to HG Wells very clearly. Like THE WAR OF THE WORLDS, it's a catastrophe novel that seems to mirror Britain's anxieties during its long imperial decline that it (and the whole world) was on the brink of utter chaos. In this book, giant ambulatory poisonous, carnivorous plants, called \\"triffids\\" have been created through the errors of human bioengineering; not long after, a mysterious spectacular meteor shower blinds everyone on Earth who sees it, leaving them at the mercy of the triffids. <br /> <br />The triffids sound a bit ridiculous when described but you almost immediately believe in their possibility when you read this novel; what makes them so frightening and effective is that they're fairly slow in moving (except when they whip out their poisonous tendrils for the kill) and behave fairly instinctually, so the characters, preoccupied with their planet's social catastrophe, tend to forget about the menace they pose until its too late. Indeed, the triffids are mostly background menaces for the real subject of the book, which is the possibilities of new social structures after the apocalypse. The novel's hero comes across several new survivor communities, organized (variously) on feudal, Christian, and eugenicist/breeding models, and Wyndham seems greatly interested in comparing them. It might be that there's just too much, in the end, going on in this book, especially since the creation of the triffids and the meteor shower seem ultimately coincidental. Yet it's a hard book to put down, and the vein of anti-feminism that runs through it makes it exceptionally intriguing as a peice of post-War social commentary. Anbd you'll never forget the triffids themselves.	2005-07-04
US	50684595	R3R60SD1KNG046	0753820099	849329973	SNOBS: A NOVEL: A NOVEL	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Fine and funny summer read	Julian Fellowes, himself a member of the British aristocratic circles (his wife is a lady in waiting to Princess Michael of Kent) and the co-writer of Robert Altman's GOSFORD PARK, was the perfect person to write this frothy but very funny send-up of the British fascination with titles and privilege. Edith Lavery, a daughter of an arriviste family, manages to hook Charles, Earl Broughton, the only son of the extremely wealthy Marquess of Uckford. Edith must combat not only the snobbish and exclusive Broughton circle but her own colossal boredom when she realizes that  her life as a countess will consist of little more than flower shows and hunts. Things become extremely complicated when she leaves the earl for a handsome television actor, but then realizes how little she gains in the exchange. <br /> <br />This was an absorbing read, and Fellowes is able to skewer British elitism fairly deftly. (A very funny underlying theme is how the Broughtons always have to admit new wives with New Money whom their mother-in-laws object to as parvenus.) The lethally exclusive and polite Marchioness of Uckfield, is a fine comic creation, and Fellowes makes fine observations about manners and morals in the age of Tony Blair. Although the novel clearly borrows much from Thackeray, Wharton and Waugh, it really isn't in the class of THE CUSTOM OF THE COUNTRY or A HANDFUL OF DUST although it echoes both their plots: it's a summer page-turner, nothing more. But it succeeds very well for what it is.	2005-06-22
US	50684595	R1HST9WAE3FAUZ	1590171586	691093854	The War of the Worlds	Books	5	21	24	N	Y	Only Gorey could have done it full justice	Nearly fifty years ago the Looking Glass Library published an edition of HG Wells's WAR OF THE WORLDS with some very creepy black and white illustrations by Edward Gorey; for the first time, this edition has been re-issued by NYRB. It's hard to think of another artist who could have extracted the same bleak sense of horror out of Wells's 1898 novel as Gorey did: he beautifully captures the Martians's loathesomeness and their cruelty. Wells's novel always deserves another look--it is much more horrific than people tend to remember: his Martians casually fish for the humans in their giant tripod machines so as to suck their blood from them later. Its Anglocentric vision (the Martians only land around London, which for Wells is basically the whole of the world) shows the egocentrism of the most powerful nation on Earth at the Victorian fin de siecle, and the odd speech the man from Putney Hill makes to the novel's narrator late in the book exactly captures exactly what Wells believed might have to be done to combat the lassitude and decadence his overextended empire suffered from.	2005-06-08
US	50684595	R1NHZTQENPW45B	0385279213	796054925	Mrs. Palfrey at the Claremont (Virago Modern Classic)	Books	5	73	76	N	Y	Love among the ruins	In terms of sheer craftsmanship alone this little novel is a masterpiece--there hardly seems to be a word out of place. But what really distinguishes it is its sophisticated and yet almost oblique take on the many varieties of love. Elizabeth Taylor's setting is a small hotel in  London which caters not only to visiting tourists but also to a small group of retired middle-class widows and widowers, who are forced to accept the dark back rooms and have little to do as they wait for death but knit and wait for the change of the evening's menu in the dining room. To this sad last stop before the grave comes Laura Palfrey, who (rare for a Taylor novel) is a genuine heroine in her kindness, sensitivity, and refreshing lack of the silliness or malice endemic among so many of the Claremont's other permanent denizens. Neglected by her only relative in the city, a grandson working at the British Museum,  Mrs. Palfrey asks a young penniless writer who helps her after a fall one day to pretend to be the grandson in order for her to save face among her hotelmates--and as she learns to love him for his attentions and goodness to her he also begins to revel in her generosity and maternal care. Despite the repeated praise lavished on this book by other writers I held off reading it for a long while because I feared it would be unbearably sad; but while Taylor does not stint on the emptiness and pathos of her retiree characters' lives, she brings humor and an expansive vision of redemption to the book.	2005-06-04
US	50684595	R1NRN2RGAX90S1	0140161139	615760711	Palladian (Virago Modern Classics)	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Some like it cold	Elizabeth Taylor is a real writer's writer, which can be a term of disparagement as well as one of high praise. Taylor's novels always show amazing intelligence and care and devotion to craft, and at their best they can be moving and obsorbing; at their worst, however, they can seem a bit inhuman and cold. PALLADIAN, her second novel, falls into the latter category. This is truly a metanarrative, as its clever-clever title  would indicate, suggesting not only the Palladian architecture of the estate on which most of the action takes place but also the realms of the intellectual, of Pallas Athena. The Austenian-named heroine Cassandra Dashwood goes to work at the estate as a governess, and dreams from the first of falling in love with her charge's widowed and mysterious father; Taylor acts immediately to deconstruct any such Brontsque narrative expectations by showing quickly that the true locus of interest should lie not with Cassandra and her employer but rather with her employer's dislikeable drunken cousin, who is sleeping with a pubkeeper in the nearby town. Characters are coldly sacrificed for the sake of narrative surprises and moral points; you end up admiring Taylor's skill and fine mind but not caring a bit for anyone in the novel at all.	2005-06-02
US	50684595	R3O23ZYYKZ8ZSZ	0385279752	816981705	Miss Mole (A Virago modern classic)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	The world aslant	E. H. Young's delightful Hannah Mole is over forty, unmarried, and always on the run for new work as a companion, nanny, or housekeeper. Although proud of her work, she realizes her humorously sharp tongue and satirical perception of the world will always get her tossed from each new job; yet despite her hand-to-mouth circumstances, she keeps fairly happy by always amazing herself at the qualities and peculiarities of human nature. This much-loved, but little-known 1930 masterpiece, which details the return of Miss Mole to her favorite city of Radstowe (really Bristol) to care for a clergyman's family is told with an angularity and asperity befitting its great central character. Nothing in this novel is ever told straightforwardly, but always at a kind of slant like sunlight through spar; but this is the way Miss Mole herself views the world, and the result is a very comic and very intelligent novel by one of the most unjustly forgotten British novelists who might be best characterized  (with her quirkiness and love of aphortism) as an early 20th-century George Meredith.	2005-05-30
US	50684595	R1OOCAA9EDXM5R	0143034901	734819982	The Shadow of the Wind	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Gets under your skin	Carlos Ruiz Zafon's Barcelona-set SHADOW OF THE WIND has been repeatedly compared--quite inaccurately--to Borges, but it is really more akin to Sebastien Japrisot's A VERY LONG ENGAGEMENT and Michael Ondaatje's THE ENGLISH PATIENT: it's basically a multi-threaded story of doomed love, set against historical upheaval and pieced together years after the fact. It has fine Gothic atmospherics that really make it compelling. There are, however, quite a number of narrative lapses throughout that may betray the author's comparative youth. (For example, Ruiz Zafon frequently has his main character read documents by other characters that are all told in the same basic style and that have information within them to which the characters writing the narrative could not possibly be privy.) It was an enjoyable read all told, however--whatever its errors, I could not wait to get back to it while reading it.	2005-04-11
US	50684595	R2QCK8MAW02CQI	0393050572	948966865	Will in the World: How Shakespeare Became Shakespeare	Books	3	13	18	N	Y	Clever-clever, but absolutely not convincing	In the notes for this extremely speculative biography of Shakespeare, Stephen Greenblatt lists as one of his primary inspirations the \\"Scylla and Charbydis\\" chapter of ULYSSES wherein the precocious Stephen Dedalus spins a dazzling theory of Shakespeare's plays reflecting the basic source material of his autobiography. But Greenblatt does not include the fact that when Stephen Dedalus is finally asked by an auditor whether he believes in his own theory, he responds, \\"No.\\" Like Dedalus, Greenblatt weaves a tremendously clever web of suppositions about Shaeskeapre's life based on the author's work, but whereas Stephen Dedalus (and his creator Joyce) were intelligent and honest enough to admit such work in the end amounts ultimately only to a game of suppositions, Greenblatt seems to take his own speculations so seriously that they become treated via his own rhetorical force as factitious.  <br /> <br />A classic example is Greenblatt's elaborate theory that Shakespeare's treatment of both Jews and anti-Semitism in THE MERCHANT OF VENICE stems from the ridicule Queen Elizabeth's personal physician, Dr. Lopez (a coverted Portuguese Jew), received from the crowd of Londoners when he was on the scaffold for treason. First Greenblatt frankly admits that whether Shakespeare was there on that day or not is mere speculation, but then he refers again and again to how the laughter Shakespeare heard at one moment before Lopez's execution must absolutely have been a seminal moment in the playwright's intellectual career--even though he has not established any evidence whatsoever that Shakespeare was present or that he even heard news of this laughter reported elsewhere! The biography becomes little more than a fancy series of suppositions that takes itself far too seriously; fortunately, the unconvicing biographical speculation is at least balanced by a thorough understanding of the era, by sensitive readings of the plays (though some plays such as CYMBELINE are not even mentioned), and by Greenblatt's extremely readable style.	2005-04-11
US	50684595	R3RVYU1B7ORHTI	0156319527	950668602	Flush: A Biography	Books	4	33	33	N	N	More than just Woolf being cute	FLUSH probably gets the least respect of all of Virginia Woolf's books, and many critics at the time of its publication in 1933 (and since) thought she was being more than a bit twee in telling the satory of the Elizabeth Barrett-Robert Browning courtship from the point of view of Barrett's adored cocker spaniel. But this experiment in biography is much more than that: it's an attempt to understand the world from a non-human point of view, and it also is Woolf's most overt look in her fiction at class difference and (more unusually) at the world of crime. It's also a terrific addition to Woolf's extended engagement from an early 20th-c. perspective with the world of genteel Victorian society and its snobberies and hypocrisies.	2005-03-12
US	50684595	R2109Q0FQHMMM0	1903155207	229280015	A House in the Country	Books	3	12	12	N	Y	The condition of England during WWII	Jocelyn Playfair's 1944 novel is set in a great Georgian country house, which has been billeted by all manner of homeless Englishmen, during the fall of Tobruk in 1942. The great house, of course, is a symbol of England (as it so often is in the English novel), and Playfair's work is a fairly sophisticated and earnest attempt to grapple with some of the larger questions posed by the second World War to the English people: is it possible to ever go back to \\"normal\\"? Was it a mistake to attempt to go back to \\"norma;\\" after the first World War? Must people be willing to sacrifice willingly if anything is to be learned from the wars at all? The novel thus becomes very much in the tradition of the great essay-novels of the modern period, including Woolf's JACOB'S ROOM and THE YEARS and Wells's CHRISTINA ALBERTA'S FATHER and ANN VERONICA; Playfair is a bit less successful than Woolf or Wells, though, in that her characters are often so idealized. Her heroine Cressida is so beautiful and kind and noble that it is--all too unfortunately--easy to imagine her played by Greer Garson; similarly, her wounded hero Charles Valery, agonized by the war, seems of the Leslie Howard variety. You wish the major characters were as memorable as the minor characters (such as Cressida's formidable wealthy aunt).	2005-01-31
US	50684595	R3CRGGXRQRSFML	1590170857	883310353	The Furies (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	4	4	6	N	Y	Two-thirds of it a great work	Janet Hobhouse's last novel THE FURIES was published two years after her death in 1991, and its incompleteness shows. The work is a thinly fictionalized family memoir of an improvident but glamorous matrilineage living largely on their wits on the edges of Manhattan life throughout the course of the twentieth century; the doomy narrative centers upon the author's alter ego, Helen, who grows up shuttling between home and expensive private schools, watched by her unhappy mother, her artistic grandmother, her odd aunt and great-aunt, and eventually her cold father living in London. The first two-thirds of the work are fantastic--as superb a fictionalized memoir as THE BELL JAR, with each chapter acting as a beautiful short story in its own right, all permeated with the author's singular blend of lush prose and sweetly rueful melancholy. But when Helen marries a wealthy Englishman and her fortunes change drastically the tone of the novel remains exactly the same. When the narrator then uses the same complaining tone she used to describe her mother's mental illness and her father's verbal abusiveness to describe how alien ated she and her husband become for having such much nicer and more expensive houses than their friends, your sympathies for her begin to dry up completely; even when Helen's luck again turns for the worse, she's by then exhausted all the reader's patience. Had Hobhouse had time to finish the work before her early death, she likely would have surmounted these problems in revision; as it is, the work is very flawed but still more than worth reading.	2005-01-24
US	50684595	R1QHSLRAS1G3HC	0860683559	101752673	Angel (Virago Modern Classics)	Books	4	20	21	N	Y	A novel with a considerable cult following	The novel's heroine is described within as an exotic bloom from a cactus plant: the novel ANGEL itself might be described the same way. Its title heroine grows up spoiled and adored by her shopowning mother and mother's sister; indifferent to their ideas for her future (or indeed to just about anything else), Angel discovers her gift for fantastic fictions translates beautifully into the publishing world, where she becomes a bestselling author of contempibly popular potboilers. Angel accordingly re-invents herself as a glamorous author figure of the Elinor Glyn school, and we follow her through her successes, marriage, eventual popular neglect, and poverty.<br /><br />ANGEL is a cult favorite among many British novelists, including Hilary Mantel, but is only really transcendent when it allows Angel to strive (at the beginning and the end of her career) against difficult odds. The scene, for example, where she tells off her aunt for planning to make her a ladies' maid is enormously funny and satisfying. But when Angel is rich and successful Taylor seems too invested in scoring points of of her heroine, as if she, too, feared what Angel might do if not kept in her place.	2004-12-28
US	50684595	RROPMMJI1V8JK	0953478025	19460082	Someone at a Distance	Books	3	27	28	N	Y	Cliched and hoary divorce plot, but exquisitely written	Dorothy Whipple has been one of the authors Persephone Books has been most proud to re-dsicover, and the beautifully sharp prose in this 1950s novel will alert you immediately why she's been a favorite. Yet for all that the novel is bit of a disappointment. The plot seems reminsicent of Clare Booth Luce's THE WOMEN: a noble-minded wealthy married woman loses her weak and contempible husband to the clutches of a stylish and spiteful vixen, while her daughter suffers tremendously and her friends cluck and sympathize. Some of the characters are also quite hard to take. Anne, the sickeningly adorable daughter, carries on so much when her father is caught with the French interloper, Louise, that you begin to develop a perverse delight in her unhappiness; and all the male characters are wholly two-dimensional weaklings. With the older women characters, however, Whipple seems right on the money. The heroine, Ellen, is perhaps a bit too noble but is also observed with sympathy and skill, and Louise, the clear villain, is surprisingly well-drawn too. Whipple's ability to turn a memorable phrase is also consistent throughout.	2004-12-28
US	50684595	R3M6VU52DR19JJ	1903155177	218984336	Little Boy Lost	Books	3	12	15	N	Y	Weakest of Persephone's three Laski novels, but worth a look	Two of the strongest and most thrilling of the novels Persephone Books has reisuued include two by the critic and religious scholar Marghanita Laski: the chilling time-travel novella of confused identity THE VICTORIAN CHAISE-LONGUE and the absorbing postwar comedy of manners THE VILLAGE. Their third Laski re-issue, LITTLE BOY LOST, is not as strong as the other two. The protagonist, Hillary Wainwright, is so ambivalent and ineffectual he deserves his name; while part of the novel's suspense rests in the fact that, in trying to determine whether a war orphan is his own lost son, he may scotch the whole thing because of his egotism and moral weakness, these qualities make him a difficult character to spend an entire novel following. The best thing LITTLE BOY LOST has going for it is its sharp-etched portrait of the dismal quality of life in France after the Nazi Occupation, and here it excels.	2004-12-28
US	50684595	R39JBJE6LV7RQK	0312176856	761848732	Eminent Georgians: The Lives of King George V, Elizabeth Bowen, St. John Philby, and Lady Astor	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Intriguing lives, lazily written	This certainly isn't Lytton Strachey. Like Strachey and Richard Holmes, however, Halperin well realizes the inherent great enjoyability of very short biographies of extremely interesting people. There seems to be almost no original research here, and Halperin is willing to make an extremely shallow and lazy transition to an anecdote just to squeeze it in, but he does write with grace (and has an eye for a great story). Oddly, there's a running theme throughout the book: the perfidy of what Halperin extremely loosely calls \\"treason,\\" although what he means by treason seems so broad at times as to be almost meaningless. The best lives here are of the stodgy George V and the hilariously irreverent Nancy Astor, because with both Halperin seems really to have a new angle he wants to bring out; while his willingness to applaud the late king for his steadfastness and decency as compared to his eldest son's thorough rottenness, it does not seem to occur to Halperin that Edward VIII's character might be in part due to his parents' legendarily neglectful cold and neglectful care. Halperin's extremely heavyhanded evaluations of Elizabeth Bowen's novels are also a bit puzzling, although Bowen's exceptionally eventful life and character make up for his judgmentalism towards her fiction.	2004-11-25
US	50684595	R1C50LZSX1ZV4R	0953478092	449244615	Julian Grenfell: His Life and the Times of His Death, 1888-1915	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Life at the Edwardian Top	Julian Grenfell's parents, Lord Willy Desborough and his fascinating wife Ettie, were at the very top of the power structure during the Victorian fin de siecle and the first twenty years of the next century. Ettie, the granddaughter of two earls, was the great society charmer of her day, and was the cynosure of every eye among the 'Souls,' the coterie of wealthy aristocrats who happened to run the British Empire at its very height (they numbered among them Lord Curzon, the great Indian Viceroy, the Wyndham sisters, the Asquiths, and Arthur Balfour). But the same qualities that lef to Ettie's fascination as a beauty also made her a very vexing mother for her children: this book is largely a study of her dark and troubled relations with her eldest son Julian Grenfell, who died in the First World War just after writing what became one of the most famous war lyrics ever written, \\"Into Battle.\\" The novelist Nicholas Mosley, who is himself Lord Curzon's grandson, wrote this very penetrating 1976 biography that shows the dark underside of the Edwardian power structure that made possible the stupid sacrifice of talented young men like Julian and his brother Billy in WWI: the book reverberates with this terrible telos. Mosley quotes very extensively from the letters and diaries of the Grenfell/Desboroughs and the 'Souls' throughout the work. Although their society codewords and gushiness can be almost unbelievably cloying and even stupid (the men care only for hunting and for worshipping the women; the women for manipulating the men and each other), the exposure of this mindset is one of Mosley's major points. This book is a great find for anyone interested in the First World War, in the Edwardians, or in modernism in general.	2004-11-18
US	50684595	R2PB400SM5YHWU	0953478033	148388295	Fidelity	Books	5	28	28	N	Y	A nearly perfect modern American novel	Susan Glaspell's beautiful 1915 novel of a fallen woman may be the single best unread American novel from the first quarter of the twentieth century: it is proleptic not only of the later novels of Willa Cather (like THE PROFESSOR'S HOUSE and A LOST LADY) but even of Fitzgerald's Midwestern writings--and yet it remains its own one-of-a-kind work. The protagonist, Ruth, must return home for her father's funeral to the Mississippi River city of Freeport she left a decade earlier with another man's husband, bringing shame to her family and disappointment and feelings of betrayal from the polite society in which she used to excel. The book is far too intelligent to present the aftermath of Ruth's elopement in one-sided terms, and shows as many sides not only to the affair's consequences but to Ruth and her friends as possible. The novel is told deftly and complexly, with unobtrusive shifts from one time period to another; it also treats its Iowan subjects not as mere hicks (as Sinclair Lewis was wont to do) but rather as they see themselves--as complex and richly layered individuals. The highest compliment I can pay FIDELITY is to say it truly deserves the heartstoppingly beautiful re-edition Persephone Books has here given it, with its gorgeous endpapers pattered after a turn-of-the-century quilt.	2004-11-11
US	50684595	R19Q1BW2DI8FBL	1903155223	669411853	The Carlyles at Home	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The domestic side of a life of genius	Now it is quite common to write biographies of the wives of great writers and thinkers of times past, but when Thea Holme, an actress living in 24 Cheyne Walk , wrote about the former mistress of the house Jane Carlyle it was very unusual. Yet the experiment was a success: Holme was a superior writer, and this short study of the Carlyles' lives at their home for over thirty years draws you thoroughly into its world of fighting with noisy neighbors, managing funds, and caring for small pets. Jane, the center of the book, emerges as hypochondriacal and at times overly sensitive, but paradoxically also intrepid and likeable. It would have been nice had Holme not taken Carlyle's career and the couple's courtship in Scotland for granted and provided more detail in these respectsm, but so much is given within here it is hard to complain. The book is ideally suited for its new edition through the marvelous Persephone Books; atypically, they chose not to use a period fabric for their endpaperes but instead wisely reproduce Roberrt Tait's famous 1857 \\"A Chelsea Interior,\\" which shows the Carlyles among their beautifully wallpapered and richly upholstered library.	2004-10-16
US	50684595	R1HK8S54INSVNC	0140161198	694868556	One Fine Day (Virago Modern Classics)	Books	4	20	20	N	N	Beautiful (despite its obvious debts)	This is one of the finest novels to emerge from the Second World War, and greatly deserves to be back in print. Mollie Panter-Downes's debts in this \\"day in the life\\" of a family (a father, daughter, and, most crucially, a wife) in a small village outside of London during the year after the cessation of war activities was clearly influenced by Katherine Mansfield's great story \\"At the Bay\\" and--even more saliently--by Virginia Woolf's MRS. DALLOWAY, in form, content, and tone. (Key phrases like \\"The war is over,\\" here as in Woolf uttered by a wealthy woman past her sexual prime in relief, are directly taken from the Woolf novel.) But despite its derivativeness this is a masterful little novel, and should be accorded a special placed in the literature of the 1940s. Mollie Panter-Downes really could write, and her characters really come alive off the page. The descriptions of the English countryside on a hot day when the world seems still even though the class structure is forever changing are something to relish.	2004-09-17
US	50684595	R1UEWCKB42JA6R	1903155061	531777421	Every Eye	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Another remarkable rediscovery from Persephone	The editors at persephone Books in London have done a tremendous service by reissuing these terrific and beautiful editions of neglected twentieth-century women's classics; it's a true shame these books aren't more available in the United States in affordable editions. EVERY EYE is one of the most beautifully written books in their series; Isobel English's gift for narrative description (particularly for landscape and for fabrics) is superb. The story initially seems to be out of Caroline Blackwood territory, with its heroine's repeating complaints about the maternal figures in her life (particularly her aunt); but as the novel unfolds it moves far beyond that, and its deft shuttlings back between the heroine's present (her honeymoon in Ibiza) and her past seem miraculous. Cinema is one of the places where we are best used to such shifts, but there's little filmic in English's technique--her talents are thoroughly those of the novelistic. The gorgeousness of the prose and narrative drive allow you to overlook the conventionality of the very guessable \\"surprise ending.\\"	2004-08-29
US	50684595	RYCBJAS74ZIZI	1590170105	492688677	A Bolt from the Blue and Other Essays	Books	5	12	14	N	Y	A beautiful mind in a beautiful book	Mary McCarthy is one of the most important American thinkers of the twentieth century, and she was at the heart of everything in the New York worlds of politics and letters. This superb collection of her essays shows  her at her shrewdest, on subjects ranging from Eugene O'Neill to fashion magazines to Portugal to society and political figures. Famous for her unrelentingly flinty lordliness (memorably and mercilessly caricatured in Randall Jarrell's PICTURES FROM AN INSTITUTION), she can be savage in her reviews. When her stinging rebukes are deserved, as in her famous withering critique of Salinger's FRANNY AND ZOOEY, they're a delight, but even when you feel they're unwarranted or off-target they're still instructive and illuminating, and are always written with incredible elegance and eloquence. We want the best of the best critics to show, more than anything, a point of view, which McCarthy undoubtedly does: a point of view that is Europhilic, intelligent, self-important, funny, biting, and exceptionally articulate.    This collection is an absolutely beautiful hardcover edition from NYRB that is as delightful to the touch as to the eye. It is an extremely worthy investment.	2004-08-21
US	50684595	R2Y8KX17HV4CXR	0140013113	752845749	Anglo-Saxon Attitudes	Books	3	6	11	N	N	The burdens of conscience	There's not a lot of raison d'etre for this very amusing comedy of British class life, centered upon a decades-long academic controversy, other than to show the consequences of conscience upon an elderly wealthy history professor. This book, which has been  out of print for a few years in the US, is still quite enjoyable, and the cadre of curious characters that populate it are as memorable in their own way as those out of Dickens (to whom Wilson is often compared). There is a kind of creepiness in the latent homophobia of the comic ending (everyone receives his or her just desserts, which means in this case the major gay characters are killed or maimed), but the novel is of a different and earlier time.The description of Ingeborg Middleton's hideously frolicsome Nordic Christmas party alone makes the novel worth reading.	2004-08-20
US	50684595	R2HAPYHYLAXQRD	1903155231	140176458	The Far Cry	Books	4	15	15	N	N	A second Voyage Out	Emma Smith wrote only two novels in the late 40s before she married and put away her typewriter for decades; they were bestsellers and were critically acclaimed, yet they remain today largely forgotten. The Persephone Press has reissued one of them, THE FAR CRY, and like its  central characters it is odd and difficult to appreciate at first but well worth it in the end. Fourteen year-old Tersea is pulled out of school by her cantankerous and dislikeable father to go to India with him simply to spite her mother, from whom her father is estranged and who is coming to England to reclaim her; in India, he hopes to reunite with his other daughter from a previous marriage, the lovely Ruth. For the first hundred pages or so this book is very hard-going: the characters seem not only unlikeable but also unloveable, and you wonder why you put up with them. Like Forster in his rougher early fiction (WHERE ANGELS FEAR TO TREAD and THE LONGEST JOURNEY), which seem among her clearest models, Emma Smith seems intent on showing us the worst side of people: the luxury of a bright and alienated young author, perhaps. But when Teresa and her father get to India, everything changes: their responses to this nation unknown to them show them to be capabnle of stronger sensibilities and reactions then we supposed, and when they arrive at the house of Ruth and her husband in Assam (both of whom are themselves strongly realized characters) we feel we know them much more thoroughly, and Smith's wider precocious pattern makes more sense.<br />It may be objected of this book (as Salman Rushdie objected to Paul Scott's RAJ QUARTET, which four novels this book anticipates in many ways) that Smith uses India only as a backdrop for her Anglo-Indian characters' problems, and is content to have the Indians in her novel only play walk-ons in their own country. There is no real answer to such a charge, because Smith is concerned with India mostly in terms of the distance and immensity it implies for central Anglo-Indian family, and what it says about their own problems regarding human contact and friendship. In this the novel seems much like another early Bloomsbury novel, Woolf's THE VOYAGE OUT, which is the clearest of all precursors for this work. But unlike Woolf's imagined South American country, the India Smith uses as the backdrop for her character's Bildungsroman is real, and was really observed, and Smith's powers of description are exceptional. This is not an easy novel to like, but I think it is well worth the effort.ntral Anglo-Indian family, and what it says about their own problems regarding human contact and friendship. In this the novel seems much like another early Bloomsbury novel, Woolf's THE VOYAGE OUT, which is the clearest of all precursors for this work. But unlike Woolf's imagined South American country, the India Smith uses as the backdrop for her character's Bildungsroman is real, and was really observed, and Smith's powers of description are exceptional. This is not an easy novel to like, but I think it is well worth the effort.	2004-07-16
US	50684595	R2DXLSIM2FPNQ3	1843910918	439296305	Simonetta Perkins (Hesperus Classics)	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Desire under false pretences	LP Hartley's first major published work is less forced than his later, more canonical THE GO-BETWEEN and more controlled than EUSTACE AND HILDA. Although it owes much (too much) to Henry James and E. M. Forster and Edith Wharton, it's still a memorable novella, especially in its evocations of a tourists' Venice that is more ultimately more recognizable (and sensual) than Mann's or James's, even if it lacks the other writers' intellectual rigor. <br />Wealthy, attractive Lavinia Johnstone is in Venice with her formidable Boston Brahmin mother after disappoiinting the latter by refusing four estimable suitors; while acting the tourist, she becomes enamored of a handsome gondolier even if she refuses to admit this to herself. She writes a friend for advice, transferring the desire for the gondolier onto a fictitious friend--\\"Simonetta Perkins\\"--, all the while denying the truth of her attraction to the gondolier, to her mother, or to herself. How long can Lavinia remain in the closet from her desire, and what should happen if she should venture out? The novella is made all the more fascinating given Hartley's own sexual orientation, which puts the idea of Lavinia's masked desire into a different focus.	2004-07-15
US	50684595	R2DAAYWAYJD1G7	1590170814	752240345	Apartment in Athens (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	4	39	39	N	Y	Wescott's study of character under adversity	His 1945 APARTMENT IN ATHENS may lack the dazzling structurations of his recently rediscovered and greatly celebrated novella THE PILGRIM HAWK, but it is told with the same crystalline prose and is perhaps a deeper study of character. Mr. and Mrs. Helianos are a couple living in Nazi-occupied Athens forced to share their apartment with a melancholy German officer; vaguely mistreated by him, they learn to bear up under their hardships for a good year. Then he leaves for a vacation in Germany and returns behaving suddenly much more gently and kindly towards them, a change of heart that signals disaster for the lives of all of them. The story, inspired by an anecdote told by a Greek freedom fighter to Wescott, is perhaps not as dense as you'd like on first reading (there are none of the sort of Jamesian twists we might expect), but the difficult ethical positions of the Helianoses become clearer the more you think about the work later. This short novel is a very sophisticated study of the problems and evils inherent in human sympathy during a time of war.	2004-07-10
US	50684595	R2CWZTZHYD9ZZL	190315507X	144528966	Marjory Fleming	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Prodigious	Dead by the age of seven, the poetic prodigy Marjory Fleming (1803-1811) was the youngest person to be granted an entry in Leslie Stephen's DICTIONARY OF NATIONAL BIOGRAPHY. Oriel Malet,. something of a prodigy herself, wrote this astonishing little biography of Fleming in 1946 at age twenty. Although several biographies of Fleming had been written in the preceding century, and Malet's book owes much to Lytton Strachey's QUEEN VICTORIA (particularly in its descriptions of a child's ungovernable temperament), this novelized biography is a little miracle in its own right. Malet doesn't quite get down the way educated Regency Scottish children like Marjory spoke (the invented dialogue is often at odds with Marjory's own archly sophisticated observations in her diary), yet even still malet captured something not only about the involving struggle of a child straining to master language but the odd pitched battle in our souls from those to whom we feel we ought to owe our gravest debts and those whom we truly love the most.	2004-07-03
US	50684595	R295J8KI4EJDKH	0953478041	721640261	The Victorian Chaise-Longue	Books	5	9	9	N	N	We are not what we once were	This little masterpiece of horror has been touted as one of the stars of the Persephone catalogue, and deservedly so. It bears comparison to THE YELLOW WALLPAPER but is more sophisticated than Charlotte Perkins Gilman's classic tale (which Laski was unlikely to have known about in 1953 anyway). Laski's story centers on frivolous, wealthy Melanie, who lies in recovery from tuberculosis in the months after giving birth. Her doctor allows her to move from her sickbed to an embroidered Victorian chaise-longue she purchased while shopping for her cradle. As she lies upon it, she becomes aware she is no longer in the 1950s but trapped instead in the body of someone else in the High Victorian period--someone oddly familiar...<br />This little novella uses its fantasy framework to expose our relations to ourselves and to memory and to time, and also to analyze the change in conventions for women and behavior from the nineteenth to the twentieth centuries. It's a real forgotten classic, deserving of rediscovery both in the United Kingdom and the USA.	2004-07-03
US	50684595	R3W2CKDPNIF9UD	1569472564	120001981	The Vault	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A good police procedural series in a memorable setting	The resort town of Bath, with its creamy Georgian carved stone and echoes of Jane Austen, makes a pretty fun contrast as a setting to Peter Lovesey's overweight, hot-tempered, and inappropriately joking detective, Peter Diamond. In this entry in the series,  a series of events one summer month involving Mary Shelley's Frankenstein (most of which was composed in Bath) begins to unfold: first a hand in discovered in the vault under the Bath Abbey churchyard, then what may be Mary Shelley's edition of Frankenstein is uncovered by an American English professor, and then finally what may be a series of Blake illustrations for an edition of Frankenstein begin to show up. The fun of this book is waiting to see how the smaller mysteries will come together, especially when the American professor's wife goes missing and a woman's body turns up in the river. Not everything is resolved as satisfyingly as possible, but the novel has its pleasures: the professor's obsession with his quest for Shelley's writing box, the atmosphere of fancy Bath antique shops, and Diamond's grumbling and misanthropy.	2004-07-02
US	50684595	R15RJGLR8NJ56V	0140107479	292088234	The Transit of Venus	Books	3	15	26	N	Y	Ambitious and admirable, but not successful	The reasons Shirley Hazzard's best-known novel doesn't succeed are not the same as readers fear when they start it. Her burnished lapidary prose and her characters' extremely aphoristic way of speaking can seem initially offpyutting, but once you realize she knows what she's doing exactly on the level of the sentence you trust her and let her run with it. But Hazzard's sense of control at the larger level of plot is less steady. The novel, which describes a huge span of time (25 years) in the lives of two sisters and the people with whom they gather in an academic's house in England in the 1950s, is an admirable attempt to cover the arc of many lives over a period of years as they occasionally cross paths in ways as  transcendantly as the astonromical event mentioned in the title; the big narrative surprises at the end seem to undo much of what you thought about the characters before, but since there are so many characters to keep track of you end up feeling more confused and cheated than entranced. You wind up admiring what Hazzard is trying to do but left feeling she couldn't quite pull it off. Some of the ancillary narratives embedded within the larger narrative are first rate, however, and I have to say I am going to read her other novels regardless of my dissatisfactions with this work.	2004-06-16
US	50684595	R3TJVLDNMD5KLP	0385489498	126353102	Marie Antoinette: The Journey	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Unquiet ghosts of Versailles	The best biographers know they have to be sympathetic to their subjects somehow or the biography just isn't very interesting; fortunately in Marie Antoinette Antonia Fraser found not only someone sympathetic but even someone who was, for all her faults, ultimately admirable in her composure and grace in the midst of horrors. Fraser does not whitewash the queen's extravagance nor her intellectual limitations nor even her affair with Count Felsen of Sweden, but she also shows that the Austrian-born consort has been unjustly maligned for being excessively Machiavellian (which she was almost incapable of being) and for the Diamond Necklace Affair (where the queen was almost wholly innocent, although she did mismanage her own exoneration). She is also very moving in her descriptions of how Marie Antoinette was a pawn in her mother's dynastic strategies, and perceptive in her explanations of how Louis XVI's sexual awkwardness resulted initially in the queen's constant anxiety regarding her inopportunity to provide an heir and then later in her unlucky assumption of the roles usually accorded to the king's mistress. <br />Fraser writes beautifully, with a strong sense of narrative and character: I found it a hard to stop reading. The color photo inserts are also quite well chosen. My only strong gripe would be the inadequate genealogical charts Fraser provides, which is especially unfortunate given the multiple (and confusing) titles assumed by the king's and queen's immediate Bourbon and Hapsburg family members. Fraser wastes space providing a chart showing how both Louis and Marie Antoinette are descended from mary Stuart--something of great interest to her, perhaps (as the foremost biographer of Mary, Queen of Scots), but not to her readers, who would benefit more from a chart explainging other things.	2004-06-08
US	50684595	RSZKD2SWB4GTP	0812968778	568965033	The Winter Queen: A Novel (An Erast Fandorin Mystery)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Reportedly the later books in the series are better	This is the first in Boris Akunin's series of novels featuring the detective Erast Fandorin in 1870s Czarist Moscow that has been the rage of Russia in recent years, and it is a good thing the novels are supposed to get better as they go, because this was prettty much of a disappointment. Involving a far-reaching anarchists' conspiracy masked behind the apparently random suicide of a student in the Alexander Gardens, the story is full of twists and turns, many of which you see coming (especially the character reversals). Things aren't helped by the translation from the Russian, which winds up sounding exactly like a translation from a foreign language--indeed, it sounds as if it were translated from Russian to a third intervening language and then to English. And the novel's final chapter seems at odds tonally with the rest of the book. On the other hand, the conspiracy itself is pretty original and interesting (although you guess who's behind it very quickly), and the story, while quite literate, is pretty much of a pageturner. Best of all, the main character, the young detective Fandorin, is very appealing. Vain but bashful, smart but naive, and supremely lucky, he does seem promising for later (and, one hopes, better) installments in the series.	2004-05-19
US	50684595	R32UH00EHLRUS	0812966988	60432491	BUtterfield 8 (Modern Library Classics)	Books	4	16	19	N	N	A world of its own	O'Hara, it has been said, writes like you always wish Fitzgerald had actually written. He describes much the same privileged world, but without the chocolate-box sentimentality. His characters are often moral monsters--to themselves as well as others--but they do seem real, as does the New York world of speakeasies and glamorous apartments in 1931 he describes here. His central character, Gloria Wandrous, a beautiful cosmopolitan girl living on her wits and her sex appeal, seems a clear forerunner of Sally Bowles and Holly Golightly, except she is much less madcap and much more tragic. The central action is Gloria's swiping an expensive fur coat from the closets of a married wealthy new Yorker who brought her to his apartment and tore her dress off in order to date-rape her; we are then introduced to a series of characters who will all come together through the chain of events set off by Gloria's taking of the coat. This is a hard book to put down. Though the world it describes is incredibly sordid, it feels like a place you could easily visit and recognize.	2004-05-01
US	50684595	R3MNM2MVC0I9KU	0785102566	785585710	Essential X-Men Vol. 1	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The relaunch of a comic series that changed everything	The New X-Men became the most popular comic book series in the late Seventies and early Eighties and has continued to be so almost to this day. You can see why by looking at this reprint edition, which carries (unfortunately in black and white newsprint reproduction) the first twenty or so issues of the relaunched series. One of the most interesting things is to see how long it took for Chris Claremont, the main writer, to get the series &quot;right.&quot; For the first ten or so issues the stories were pretty standard early Seventies Marvel cheesiness, with far too many characters and hyperdramatic posturing (there's so much going on in the Empress  Lilandra story--featuring the introduction of not of two sets of heroes, the Starjammers and the Imperial guard, but also an entirely new Marvel interstellar empire--that it's very confusing to see what kind of effect Claremont and his illustrator, dave Cockrum, had in mind). With the introduction of John Byrne into the series as the artist, however, Claremont begins to take his time with his stories, and focus on subtler characterization. The superb Mesmero story, &quot;Mind Games,&quot; is the first where you feel both the writer and the artist are doing something truly innovative. And from then on, it just gets better and better.	2004-04-18
US	50684595	R21QFSR10EPMGL	0375725539	538383465	Samuel Pepys: The Unequalled Self	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	One of the best English biographers at her very best	The only living English biographers I can think of who are in any way comparable to Claire Tomalin are Richard Holmes and Peter Ackroyd, and of the three I am not sure if Tomalin isn't the best. Certainly she is the most compulsively readable: she has a fine ability to clarify confusing historical matters and offer a clear and compelling narrative line. <br />This book on Samuel Pepys, her latest work, shows Tomalin at her very best. Pepys lived through (and was an important witness to) some of the most complex and drmaatic changes in British history--the Civil War, the Restoration, the Great Plague of London, the Great Fire, and the Glorious Revolution--and Tomalin presents them all so clearly and simply it's a bit of a wonder. Her work is animated by her great admiration and fondness her subjects, Samuel and Elizabeth Pepys. She never shirks in showing their many faults (Pepys's sexual compulsiveness with other women, both  Pepys's physical violence towards each other and their servants) but she is also very attuned to what remarkable people they were, and how they jointly contributed (Pepys directly, Elizabeth indirectly) to one of the most remarable documents of all time: Pepys's great diary, the first great record of the Enlightenment self. I could not put this book down!	2004-02-11
US	50684595	RG6RZAKSMF4FD	0671792253	777019112	Class: A Guide Through the American Status System	Books	3	41	51	N	Y	Intelligent, but unpalatably nasty	The greatest irony of this admittedly meanspirited but smart little satirical study might seem initially that, in the intervening twenty years since it was published, it has become literally a social climbing guide for status-seeking readers. Many upper-class aspirants still religiously look to it to learn how, for example, to have their suits tailored (no &quot;prole gap&quot; between jacket and neck!) or decorate their living rooms.<br />But perhaps this irony isn't so great after all. Despite the often brilliant (although now dated) observations Fussell makes, the loathing he feels for the middle classes and mockery he shows towards the &quot;proles&quot; really isn't balanced by any similar feelings for the upper classes, or for what Fussell designates as his own class (&quot;class X&quot;). Just as he describes the wealthiest of the wealthy as &quot;out of sight,&quot; so is any pointed satire aimed towards them. Worst of all, his argument (like Freudian psychoanalysis or Marxism) is neatly unfalsifiable: any criticism you might make of his argument is neatly explained away on his terms as symptomatic of your own class insecurity, which functions as a kind of false consciousness. It's an exceptionally intelligent book, but too mean-spirited and blind to its own prejudices ultimately to be as trenchant as it means to be.	2004-01-27
US	50684595	R31XJHHPXNZM6P	1401200060	118195440	Spirit, The - Archives, Volume 12: January 6 - June 30, 1946 (Spirit Archives (Graphic Novels))	Books	5	19	23	N	N	The most inventive streak of the most inventive of comics	For the sake of completeness, DC re-issued all the previous sets of Sunday newspaper &quot;Spirit&quot; supplements created while the strip's creator, Will Eisner, was off serving during the war. But those comics by other artists (issued as #5-11 in the SPIRIT ARCHIVES series) are nothing compared to what Eisner produced before the war and certainly nothing like what he produced after it. The last book in the series ended with Eisner's return to the series with his &quot;Christmas Spirit&quot; story for 1945; this volume is all Eisner and shows how he had become if anything even more inventive both artistically and in terms of narrative during his absence from &quot;the Spirit.&quot; The collection introduces (and shows the exeunt) of Blubber, Ebony's Aleutian Indian replacement as the Spirit's assistant, and it also introduces the great post-war villain, Mr. Carrion (and his pet buzzard Julia). But it is most noteworthy for some of the most inventive art and narrative that have ever been produced in the comics medium , particularly in the stories &quot;The Fly,&quot; &quot;The Last Trolley,&quot; &quot;Magnifying Glasses&quot; (a brilliant comics metacommentary on perspective), &quot;The Bucket of Blood&quot; and &quot;The Rubber Band.&quot; This shows the beginning of probably the best work (and certainly the most original) done in the comics medium since &quot;Little Nemo in Slumberland.&quot;	2004-01-18
US	50684595	R35IWNP49XQ6KN	0142180157	255253646	Ancient Sorceries and Other Weird Stories (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	51	54	N	N	The scariest of ghost story writers	Algernon Blackwood really is the most frightening to me of all horror story writers. He has a way of capturing mood and setting that outdoes any of his many followers (among whom H. P. Lovecraft was proudly one of the most preeminent). The three most famous stories in this book--the title story, \\"The Wendigo,\\" and, above all, \\"The Willows\\"--emblematize his skill. The title story is set in an ancient French town where the townspeople seem to have a peculiar habit of transforming into something else, and authentically captures the creepiness of medieval towns at night. Even more frightening is \\"The Wendigo\\": set in the North Woods, it realizes whatever fears you've ever had walking alone in the snowy woods. \\"The Willows\\" was Lovecraft's nomination for the finest horror story ever written, and it clearly may have inspired THE BLAIR WITCH PROJECT. Two canoesmen traversing through the Middle European forests find themselves stranded on an island by unknown forces that won't let them leave. Part of the pleasure of Blackwood is that he never overdoes it: he has a marvelous light touch, and reads quite crisply at the level of the sentence.	2004-01-09
US	50684595	RS5SRCEBR97XR	0375422404	530251799	Mythology: The DC Comics Art of Alex Ross	Books	5	17	18	N	N	The magic of superheroes, recaptured	Alex Ross brought a new technique and style to superhero artwork that had never quite been seen before in comics. Working almost exclusively in watercolor gouache, he brought a photorealistic style that takes almost everyone's breath away. It marvelously recaptures the essential thrill of comic books: the fantasy of what it would be like if a man could really fly, or run at incredible speeds, or had a magic ring that could do anything. He's often been compared to Norman Rockwell (in his hyperrealism and love of dramatic facial expression), but Ross is his own artist. His intense love of dramatic composition, lighting, and figural motion suggests his roots also extend to the greats of comic artwork, including Dick Sprang, Steve Ditko, Gil Kane, and Neal Adams.<br />This wonderful collection captures many of his childhood attempts at art and documents not only his changing style but also his creative process (using live and inanimate models, photography, and high-contrast lighting). It also showcases a plethora of his best work for DC, and even includes many rare and uncollected images done for fan publications and even a collector's plates series (!). The fancy-shmancy book design by designer and comics fan Chip Kidd is sometimes a drawback (too many images are sometimes crammed into one doublepage spread, reducing the detail to the detriment of all the images), but the book is terrific nonetheless. It greatly benefits from commentary by Ross throughout explaining what he finds interesting and exciting about each classic Golden and Silver Age comics character.	2004-01-09
US	50684595	R2QMRC3EJV3VY5	0521639743	500733721	A Concise History of India (Cambridge Concise Histories)	Books	2	20	24	N	N	Refreshing in its correction of bias, but indigestible	Most of the concise histories of India commonly assigned to students, such as those by John Keay and by Kulke and Rothermund, have been accused of having to Eurocentric a bias. The Metcalfs, professors at the UCalifornia schools, remedy this slant in their new CONCISE HISTORY OF INDIA by stacking the deck against European colonialism. While this is welcome, it is not without cost. The greatest, perhaps, is that the Metcalfs often seem to great length to vilify some figures or parties while at pains elsewhere to vindicate others . While their biases are understandable (even ones with which I basically agree), this does not make for the most balanced or objective of histories.<br />More worrying is their utter dryness of tone: it would be hard to imagine anyone being introduced to India (presumably the book's target audience) finding this book anything other than a painful chore. key figures or concepts are introduced basically offhand, then circled back to discuss in greater length much later when you've forgotten who or what they were; very minor figures from the nation's history or culture are often brought forth to comment on the events, but the authors do not clarify whether these commentators are important or central or not. There are good maps, and a useful beginning glossary, but I would have to recommend John Keay's book (for all its European bias) as a much more readable introduction to India than this one.	2004-01-06
US	50684595	R28BVZVOKKWDLE	0192834320	602714996	Barchester Towers (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	21	23	N	N	This is where you start with Trollope	This is Trollope's funniest and most popular novel, and the one where he really came into his own as a comic novelist. Although it is second in the Chronicles of Barset, I greatly recommend starting here if you have never read Trollope before rather than beginning with the first book in the series, THE WARDEN: you'll quickly pick up everything you needed to know that happened in the first book at the beginning of BARCHESTER TOWERS, and this is a much, much funnier novel (and is more likely to hook you into his way of seeing the world). <br />BARCHESTER TOWERS is the greatest novel of petty infighting ever written: it anticipates (and surpasses) the many British and American college novels written in the twentieth century. Very little happens in this novel: two old clergymen die in the course of this novel and have replacements chosen for them, and a widow is re-married. But to the inhabitants of Trollope's Barchester it is nothing less than all-out war, waged between the archdeacon's faction (representing the conservative church) on one hand and the new bishop's wife, Mrs. Proudie, and her chaplain Mr. Slope (representing the &quot;Low Church&quot; movement) on the other. Everyone else, including the henpecked bishop, is caught in the middle. There are two absolutely uproarious setpieces in this novel: the reception Mrs. Proudie throws at the bishop's palace, and the hilariously quaint medieval fair held at the country seat of Ullathorne (complete with such ghastly oddities as a quintain for practicing jousting) are as funny as anything Jane Austen ever wrote. Trollope may not have had Austen's genius for presenting ethical quandaries, but he comes second only to her as the great novelist of comic manners in the 19th century.	2003-12-28
US	50684595	R2OER2MDGKC4QJ	067972883X	937025874	The Optimist's Daughter	Books	3	9	14	N	N	Stacks its deck too unfairly	Welty's Pulitzer Prize-winning novel is largely told in the third person through the observations of its heroine, Laurel McKelva Hand, the daughter of a prominent and wealthy smalltown Mississippi judge who comes to New Orleans to help her father who must see a doctor for an eye affliction. On hand is the judge's second wife, the silly and vulgar Fay, whom Laurel and the doctor basically ignore. When the father unexpectedly dies, Laurel (who is older than Fay) must return to the smalltown with her stepmother for his funeral.<br />The reasons for Welty's popularity with THE NEW YORKER editorial board are much in evidence: the story is told subtly and in small pieces, and accrues a remarkable level of hospital and genteel smalltown detail as it proceeds. Its measured rhythms are the best thing this novel has going for it. Unfortunately, it seems to proceed too much along the lines of a contest between discreet Southern gentility and refinement (embodied in the quiet and grieiving Laurel) and no-'count Southern lower-class vulgarity (championed by Fay and her obnoxious Texas relatives). Although Laurel comes to realize why her father's late-life optimism explains why he married Fay, Welty doesn't really allow Fay any sort of appeal to the reader at all, and so you finish the novel thinking how much *nicer* everything would have been had the judge never married her. (At least Tennessee Williams allowed Stanley Kowalski animal magnetism.) The novel seems too much on the side of delicacy , especially given that Welty's own fine feelings are so manifest in her method of telling of the story--though paradoxically some overobvious symbols (a carved boat, a breadboard, the judge's degenerating eye) weigh things down a bit much. The work is most interesting at the end, when Laurel must confront some truths about her real  mother's final illness which complicate the overly schematic family alignments in some welcome ways.	2003-12-19
US	50684595	R1HT10SBHG3ORN	159017058X	388891755	The Towers of Trebizond (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	5	38	39	N	Y	Magical, funny, learned, expansive, unique	Rose Macaulay's TOWERS OF TREBIZOND is unlike any other novel ever written. Basically a kind of travelogue of the narrator's travels through the Levant with her eccentric Aunt Dot, the smug Anglican Reverend Chantry-Pigg, and Aunt Dot's crazy camel (an important character in its own right), the novel comes to encompass much more: a meditation on East and West, a study of the contrasts between diffeerent forms of religion, and a very searching analysis of the need for religion in human experience. It's the kind of book you don't want to end, and even when it becomes somewhat wild and unbelievably allegorical (such as when the narrator trains an ape she acquires in Turkey to drive a car late in the work) you stay with it. It's the kind of book you can dip in again and again throughout your life: it works as well in bits and epigrams as it does as a sustained narrative.	2003-12-16
US	50684595	R3V03XE3WLQ6E2	1590170598	304858610	Monsieur Proust (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	5	26	29	N	Y	The woman who knew and loved Proust best	The pleasure of memoirs is that for all that they allow a circumscribed vision of things they tend to offer coherent narratives of the past, and let you know &quot;what it was like.&quot; This famous memoir by Celeste Albaret, Proust's housekeeper for ten years while he was writing his masterpeice, gives us thus a better and more complete view of the writer during his most productive years than could be imagined otherwise. Albaret was not a writer herself--the memoir was composed by others who shaped her oral reminiscences--but this work is beautifully shaped, and flows wonderfully. Almost all the major questions anyone would have about Proust--how he wrote, what he was like, who the bases were for the characters in his novel, and what his relations with his family were like--are answered in due course, and though Albaret retains her biases (she refuses to give much credence to his affairs with his chauffeur and others, for example) she is still as honest as can be. It's clear that she considered knowing and working for Proust the great event of her life, and she feels bound to tell as much as what she saw as she can.	2003-11-22
US	50684595	RUDB77KA1RT3L	0140088172	25109845	The Moving Toyshop (Classic Crime)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A great central conceit and a lively cast	This is the most famous of the Gervase Fen mysteries Edmund Crispin wrote in the early half of the century, and its exceptionally fast-moving and funny. Fen is an Oxford don, so much of the fun of the work depends upon the characters constantly debating the literary merits of different authors (a Janeite and a Lawrence fan feature into the plot, Fen is paged once as \\"Mr. T. S. Eliot,\\" and Joyce and Rabelais are dissed as unreadable). The novel begins with a doozy of a puzzle (a poet-friend of Fen's stumbles late at night into a toy store and discovers a dead body, and then the next day the body is gone and the toyshop has vanished--and no one can remember anything other than a grocer's on the site), but it unfortunately the plot becomes a bit cheesy  as it wears on (too much attention is given to the \\"locked room\\" aspect of the mystery, and some of the stuff with Edmund Lear seems unnecessarily  complicated). Still, the characters are superb and very much in the Dorothy Sayers mode, and the climax on a runaway carousel is not only exciting but indisputibly the inspiration for STRANGERS ON A TRAIN. This does date as mysteries go, but the pleausre is in discovering what used to be exciting reading sixty years ago.	2003-11-15
US	50684595	R27OSZVJ2W6247	0394895894	312522121	The Ruby in the Smoke: A Sally Lockhart Mystery	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The most authentic of the crackerjack series	Phillip Pullman is largely successful in this first homage to the sensation novels and gothics of the Victorian period in this gladly feminist novel for teenagers. All the elements you'd expect from Charlotte Bront, Wilkie Collins and Conan Doyle are there: a headstrong and independent young heroine, a cold and heartless guardian aunt, a mysterious jewel from India, East End skullduggery, and all manner of plots and counterplots. This is a good read, and Sally and her friends make for involving and even admirable characters. And thus I think the reviewer below who thinks this book inappropriate for teenagers is far off the mark .	2003-10-29
US	50684595	RPCDFRX289Q59	0394825993	994590504	The Shadow in the North (Sally Lockhart Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	4	9	13	N	N	Not as authentic as the 1st Sally book, but a better mystery	By the second book in the Sally Lockhart series Phillip Pullman's characters seem a bit unbelievably contemporary in their attitudes and behavior, but this entry in the series is darker and deeper than \\"the Ruby in the Smoke.\\" Drawing on Anthony Trollope's THE WAY WE LIVE NOW (which Pullman even mentions during the story), this novel shows Sally in the unlikely position for a young Victorian woman of being an independent  financial advisor, and she becomes quickly involved in a plot by an extremely wealthy and mysterious foreign financier. The tycoon's \\"weapon top end all weapons\\" is pretty fascinating: almost unbelievably crude by contemporary standards, the rhetoric surroundings its use and justification brings to mind more recent discussions of nuclear and biological weapons in a fascinating way. The characters remain rich and compelling, and Pullman is as wonderfully deft as ever at creating suspenseful situations and cliffhangers.	2003-10-29
US	50684595	R1GUJ5V6TIOWL9	0743243307	864788878	Brick Lane: A Novel	Books	4	7	10	N	N	A sophisticated and wise look at both the home and the world	As someone below wisely noted, Monica Ali's first novel, shortlisted for the Man Booker Prize (and expected to have won, though it lost out), is in many ways a response to THE HOME AND THE WORLD, the beautiful turn-of-the-century novel by Rabindranath Tagore, the Nobel prizewinning Bengali poet and novelist. As in Tagore's novel, Ali's work shows the very circumscribed world of a Bangla woman, her husband who adores her, and the young man who excites her, and the competing claims the public life makes upon her own inner sanctum. Nazneen, the central character of Ali's novel, is extremely beautifully fleshed out, and her inner life is probed with great profundity despite the quietness of her actions and the closed-in nature of her immediate physical world. Her stubborn and talkative husband Chanu--at times contemptible, at other times quite loveable, and always human-- also emerges as a memorable three-dimensional character, and their interactions frame an intelligent meditation on multiculturalism, on Islam, on women, on Britain, on Bangladesh.  This is a superb first work.	2003-10-19
US	50684595	RJEJBG2FFK9LA	0940322692	236185378	The Lore and Language of Schoolchildren (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	4	11	11	N	Y	Anthropology of a world like ours (but not quite)	Collected in the 50s, the Opies' LORE AND LANGUAGE OF SCHOOLCHILDREN is a compelling compendium of a world very similar to that of the 21st century but not quite. Americans will be particularly fascinated by the slight differences in customs and games among children across the Atlantic, as the Opies catalogue nicknames, rhymes, games, tricks, and half-believed superstitions and spells. fascinating reading.	2003-10-15
US	50684595	R2UELJ8F37CQMI	0679742298	904783689	The Talented Mr. Ripley	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One of the greatest of all crime novels	The superiority of Patricia Highsmith's novel to the recent Anthony Minghella film adaptation of it almost goes without saying: the homoerotic subtext of the film is here (unsurprisingly) laid bare, making the novel infintely richer aned more disturbing. Highsmith's novel is really a disquisittion on how identities are constructed: by objects, by friends, by official papers, and above all by writing. Part of its genius is bringing you inside Tom Ripley's very strange little mind so that his murders, by the time they occur, seem thoroughly logical and almost justifiable (which is part of Highsmith's moral genius). It's also a brilliant study of the manners of wealthy Americans abroad during the postwar period.	2003-10-11
US	50684595	R1A4O8XVN9P0T1	0897333667	528621097	The Blank Wall: The Innocent Mrs Duff	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	One of the finest modern American novellas (plus an extra)	Elisabeth Sanxay Holding's THE BLANK WALL has twice been made into memorable movies: Max Ophuls' RECKLESS MOMENT, with Joan Bennett and James Mason in the post-War period, and THE DEEP END just a few years ago with Tilda Swinton. Expect a few more. This is one of the finest modern American novellas written, regardless of its pulp origins, and is thus simultaneously rich on any number of lveles while it remains breathlessly suspenseful. Lucia, a well-to-do mother raising her children by a lakeside in wartime while her husband fights overseas, finds herself (through her daughter's affair) covering up a manslaughter, then becomes entangled in blackmail and even murder. The novella is really an extended meditation on identity, gender, class , nationality and even race during the late modernist period, and brilliantly shifts back and forth within Lucia's consciousness from how she understands herself and how others see her. Her frantic attempt to keep the disparties in place is one of the most astonishing accomplishments of this narrative.<br />THE BLANK WALL is so very fine that the added novella, THE INNOCENT MRS. DUFF, is just frosting on the cake. It isn't nearly at the level of Harding's masterpiece (the main character is too dislikable, and the plot he involves himself in is too farfetched), but it serves as a somewhat fascinating comparison point for other novels told from the point of view of a killer (such as THE TALENTED MR. RIPLEY or MALICE AFORETHOUGHT).	2003-10-11
US	50684595	R3EVULKBE09JLY	1590170660	814226144	Black Sun: The Brief Transit and Violent Eclipse of Harry Crosby (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	4	21	22	N	N	The pleasures of a minor life	Geoffrey Wolff's famous 1976 biography of Harry Crosby--a minor but spellbinding figure of the so-called Lost Generation--was an ideal book for the NYRB Press to revive and reissue. As a literary figure Crosby was certainly exceptionally minor--he was a dreadful and derivative poet, and his reputedly beautiful editions published by his Black Sun Press would be hard to reproduce here (and are indeed not). But his life was as fascinating a tale of early 20th-century wealthy decadence as you could wish. The best part of the narrative are the earlier sections, explaining how Harry rebelled against his Proper Bostonian past to pursue a live of drugs, drink, sex and lavish spending in Paris between the wars. The details of what Harry did once he threw caution aside and did whatever he felt like tend to become monotonous, as stories of decadence often do (everything blurs together). But Wolff has sensitively framed his narrative, and makes a very persuasive case for why Harry was NOT typical of his generation that actually makes an intriguing point about the kinds of narratives biographers map onto their subjects' lives. And if Wolff's prose is occasionally somewhat empurpled, it could not be more mete to its subject's temperament.	2003-09-19
US	50684595	R2JPAL9WQCGKU	0192838628	318101768	The Forsyte Saga (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	The first of the great British family sagas	Galsworthy was the first to borrow the term &quot;saga&quot; from the Nordic epic poems to apply to a lengthy novelistic study of a family: the trilogy, his masterpiece, influenced more writers in this century than probably can be counted (most eminently Robert Graves and -- in THE YEARS --  Virginia Woolf). Although it very quickly went out of fashion among the modernist writers of his time, THE FORSYTE SAGA has remained a popular hit, inspiring no less than two famous BBC mini-series. And it's the real deal: I can think of few novel cycles that are as satisfying or as eminently readable, much less that are as minutely crafted. (The continuing themes of possesion and death cycle throughout the saga in such fascinating ways that it is almost impossible to believe Galsworthy wrote the first novel, THE MAN OF PROPERTY, without intending to build a trilogy out of it.) The best edition in print seems to be the Oxford World's Classics edition in that it comes with an indispensable family tree.	2003-08-29
US	50684595	R1LSPBVBNWZ7VG	0375761209	656960172	The Woodlanders (Modern Library Classics)	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Hardy gone berserk	Hardy classified THE WOODLANDERS with his Novels of Character and Ingenuity, which category included his very best novels (TESS, THE MAYOR OF CASTERBRIDGE, THE RETURN OF THE NATIVE). This 1887 novel is so bizarre, however, that you might feel it belongs more properly with his Romances and Fantasies. In the secluded rustic community of Little Hintock all manner of things are a-brewing: simple Marty South has a thing for cider-merchant Giles Winterbourne, who has been promised for years to marry well-educated Grace Melbury, but Grace's father marries her off instead to philandering Edred Fitzpiers, who has a thing for local wealthy widow Felice Charmond. In this circle of desire all manner of things can go wrong--and, this being Hardy, of course they do. Some of his wildest plot contrivances (including two bizarre scenes wherein the Widow Charmond must convey crucial information to Grace, and Fitzpiers even more crucial information to Grace's father) occur without the redeeming Shakespearean scope of a novel like THE MAYOR OF CASTERBRIDGE which allows you to overlook the wackiness. Still, even if this is lesser Hardy, it's still Hardy, so the novel has such poetically gorgeous evocations of landscape and character as to make everything worthwhile in the end.	2003-08-29
US	50684595	R107BVH9JB3G5	0375759050	137753044	She: A History of Adventure (Modern Library Classics)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Compulsively readable	So many of the great Victorian fin-de-siecle romances have been rediscovered in the last few years, but this is the first new edition of one of the finest, H. Rider Haggard's SHE, in all that time. And SHE is really one of the best: compulsively readable, it lingers in the imagination long after you're done--you see why it has attracted critical commentary or adaptations from everyone to Jung to Freud to Elizabeth Bowen to C. S. Lewis. It seems to rework into all the most infamous fin-de-siecle obsessions (the New Woman, decadence, male bonding, imperialism) into something wholly new and original. Haggard was not the best writer in the world, but nonetheless somehow he managed to produce a novel as fascinating and rich as even such other fine fin-de-siecle works as DRACULA and THE ISLAND OF DR. MOREAU.	2003-08-26
US	50684595	R13QURAEQK86OT	0689845367	380161256	The Tombs of Atuan (The Earthsea Cycle, Book 2)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The inward-looking sequel to "A Wizard of Earthsea"	After encountering the broadly expansive world detailed so lovingly in \\"A Wizard of Earthsea,\\" younger readers may be puzzled at first by the extremely different scope of the second book in the \\"Earthsea\\" tetralogy, \\"The Tombs of Atuan,\\" which restricts almost all of its narrative to the title site. (The map in some editions of the labyrinth under the tombs seems almost to parody the indispenable maps of Earthsea in the first book in the series.) The hero of the first book, Ged, doesn't even appear until well into the narrative: while Ged was a wanderer, this book is about a young woman, originally named Tenar, who has been since infancy marked out as the most important religious figure in the largest political power in earthsea at the time of the book's events, but who is nonetheless restricted to a dreary life of ritual serving the Nameless Ones in a desolate shrine. You'd think Le Guin couldn't pull off such a purposeful reversal of scale and tone after the stunning achievement of the first book, but she does, and the respectful (and non-romantic) relationship between Tenar and Ged is deftly limned, as are Tenar's revelations about the nature of the gods she serves.  It's not a book for everyone, given its decidely dismal atmosphere, but it is nonetheless accomplished with brilliant skill.	2003-08-12
US	50684595	R3EIDZYV1GHJIU	1400047838	140421558	Fugitives and Refugees: A Walk in Portland, Oregon (Crown Journeys)	Books	4	18	19	N	N	An unusually funky guide to an unusually funky city	Rare for American cities, Portland, Oregon is widely loved by its inhabitants despite the fact that the city has so few of the typical tourist attractions other American cities can claim. One of Portland's finest novelists, Chuck Pahlaniuk, had the great idea of celebrating the weirdness of the city in a guide book that emphasizes what makes Portland so singular a city: its odd urban legends, its ghosts, its ever-increasing and especially its ever-present opportunities for seaminess and sex. What you get in the end is a very funny look at a very funky city, enlivened by Palahniuk's sober wittiness. The book does seem a bit of a rush-job in that it doesn't sustain a narrative as much as it could have: many of the ideas seem tossed together, and the work could have benefitted from more historical material (Portland's history is every bit as weird as its present). But nonetheless this is an inexpensive delight.	2003-08-05
US	50684595	R25U91E82JC0LG	1590170415	748691356	Rene Leys (New York Review Books)	Books	3	12	13	N	Y	Easy to admire, difficult to enjoy	Victor Segalen had one of the most mysterious life stories of any writer in the last one hundred and fifty years, and would make the fine subject for a biography someday (especially considering his still unexplained death in the forest of Brittany). The novel for which he is best remembered, RENE LEYS, admirably anticipates the sophistication of such modernist novels as Ford's THE GOOD SOLDIER and such &quot;nouvelles romans&quot; as Robbe-Grillet's JEALOUSY in its narrative uncertainty and epistemological uncertainties. Unfortunately, its not a terribly interesting novel, especially given that the multiple forewords to this beuaitful NYRB edition give us so little background as top the history and gossip behind the events of the novel: I have even taken coursework in college on the final days of the Manchu Dynasty and barely could follow the novel's course of events. This is a work that requires much more detailed editorial apparatus in future editions if it is to be more fully enjoyed.	2003-07-29
US	50684595	R3W2M4II89OONJ	1590170407	57119015	Peking Story: The Last Days of Old China (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	4	15	21	N	Y	Almost better than it has a right to be	Memoirs of the surviving privileged classes who lost everything in twentieth-century revolutions can often seem terribly materialistic and self-pitying: when displaced aristocrats wail and wail for their lost tiaras or smashed porcelain, without a jot of sympathy for why they were asked to leave in the first place, you can begin perversely to develop sympathy for the cadres who called these people class parasites and threw them out. David Kidd's memoir of marrying into an ancient and wealthy Chinese family in 1948 shows every sign of such a work, but it's far better than it starts out to be (given his adoration for lives of privilege and his almost willfuil refusal to see the point of view of why anyone would support the Communists in 1949 in the first place). The superb descriptions of the Yu family's rotting but beautiful manor are done with great humor and artistry as well as with melancholy, and the very memorable portrait of the phlegmatic and wry Yus themselves seems to bring additional perspective and depth to the material. What emerges in the end is (despite the book's brevity) a very artful and moving snapshot of a world in transition	2003-07-29
US	50684595	R7OJYNT53PCHT	1573225347	315778135	Out of Egypt: A Memoir	Books	4	7	12	N	Y	A charming family chronicle	Aciman's memoir of his multiethnic, multiglossic family in Alexandria starts out a bit confusingly: he purposefully (and perversely) hides just how certain characters are related to one another, and to himself, in the opening sections, which makes things a bit confusing. But once he enters as a character himself in the book, things straighten out and the reader can immerse himself or herself in the sights and sounds of mid-century Alexandria. The characters (mostly his family members and servants) are charmingly original, and really come to live. Oddly, though it takes his introduction into the narrative for the memoir to straighten itself out, Aciman's own character is kept occulted in this memoir, and most of what we see him do is misbehave. Aciman clearly and wisely learned from Proust (his admitted model) never to sentimentalize himself--a mistake other memoirists often commit.	2003-07-19
US	50684595	R2YYNO7V1J7N3G	0316358428	966566185	The Castafiore Emerald (The Adventures of Tintin)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	"They say I'm divine..."	Later in his career Herg set himself of writing what amounts to a kind of anti-Tintin adventure, where nothing really happens to his cast of characters (there are no opium smuggling rings to smash nor any political coups to thwart), and yet everything happens all the same. THE CASTAFIORE EMERALD may in many ways be Herg's masterpiece, and it is unquestionably the funniest of all his tales, revolving as it does on the theme of miscommunication (\\"No, this is not Cutts the butcher!\\"). Naturally at the very heart of it is the Milanese Nightingale herself, Bianca Castafiore, the world's greatest opera star, who deigns to descend upon the only two people in the world who cannot bear to hear her sing, Tintin and Captain Hamhock (er, Haddock). In addition to La Castafiore comes her entourage (her accompaniest Wagner and her maid Irma), a gaggle of photographers, a suspicious band of gypsies, a television crew, and even a local brass band. Before the tale is done Dr. Calculus will experiment with roses and color television, Tintin will have a mystery or two to unravel, Captain Fatstock (er, Haddock) will explode with fury an untold number of times, and the divine Castafiore will be asked (as always) to sing, to Tintin and Captain Haddock's horror, her signature aria from \\"Faust.\\" \\"Yes, it was the 'Jewel Song' from 'Faust' that swept me to the pinnacle of fame,\\" the opera star modestly informs her television interviewer, \\"They say I'm divine...\\" And she is.	2003-07-06
US	50684595	R38CXS8JR5QNSN	094032282X	495393176	The Autobiography of an Unknown Indian (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	3	18	21	N	N	Weighty, worthy, and entertaining (but a bit of a bore)	Nirad Chaudhuri was often unfairly dismissed in his lifetime as a 20th-century equivalent to the notorious mimic men evoked in Macaulay's infamous &quot;Minute on Indian Education&quot;: he adopts the attitudes of the British ruling class during the Raj so thoroughly he might at a casual glance be dismissed as such. But Chaudhuri's fierce and iconoclastic intelligence makes him far much more: a singular and independent thinker, and in truth a true original. This book, his masterpiece, is a brilliant semi-autobiographical study of the political situation of the first half of the Indian twentieth century. It works best in the lovely and lyrical opening hundred pages, which give a very evocative sense of his Bengali childhood. Unfortunately later, when Chaudhuri surrenders reminiscence for political analysis, he becomes more tedious than illuminating (you get the suspicion that, were you to visit him as Ian Jack , who provided the book's fine introduction, you would have been compelled despite yourself to check your watch discreetly during one of Chaudhuri's lengthy and self-satisfied tirades).	2003-07-06
US	50684595	R1VEIQUT19S5EM	0156011654	4054666	The Last Life: A Novel	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Life in exile... at home	Claire Messud's second novel is so far her masterwork: an impressively constructed and written account of a wealthy French Algerian family falling to pieces, and their history of how they got to the point they're at. The breaking of the narrative down into numbered sections is beautifully done, and you find yourself deeply caring for what happens to the narrator, Sagesse (who unfortunately becomes a bit of a pill by the end) and her family members. Her troubled grandfather, snobbish grandmother, exuberant father and (especially) her emotionally wounded mother emerge off the pages as full and breathing characters, and the changes they go through seem extremely natural and believable. The novel is an account of what it means to be an alien in one's own country, and how this particularly becomes inflected by France's traumatic colonial involvement with Algeria. While Messud's prose at times becomes a bit precious, the novel is for the most part masterfully written and quite moving. This is a writer from whom to expect great things in the future.	2003-07-04
US	50684595	R1QK987Y77GZ58	0312272057	433455404	Dry: A Memoir	Books	2	13	24	N	N	Slickly engineered, but a real disappointment	Augusten Burroughs's second memoir just isn't anywhere near as enjoyable as his first. To have this account of a rehabilitation and recovery from aclcohol addiction really work you'd have to have an authorial persona whom you'd really feel a stake in wanting to succeed, but the \\"Augusten\\" voice who emerges from this book isn't someone whom you really care about one way or another. He's funny, but not especially so (certainly nowhere near the level of David Sedaris, to whom Burroughs is often compared), and he is (as he himself is the first to admit) consummately and spectacularly shallow. This may not come off as much of a surprise for a successful advertising executive, but it certainly does work against the interests of the book: there have probably been few books ever written where the other characters are so often valued and judged almost wholly on their relative physical attractiveness. In the end you just don't care that much whether or not the main character stays on or off the wagon.<br />Burroughs's advertising background also probably explains how superfically engineered this memoir is, too: the characters might as well walk around with enormous signs that say \\"TRUE FRIEND,\\" \\"BAD NEWS,\\" and \\"COMIC RELIEF.\\" I really wanted to enjoy this book, and in the end just couldn't.	2003-07-03
US	50684595	R2HY8LA16ORMV	0873416562	91450502	The Comic-Book Book	Books	5	9	11	N	N	One of the first (and funniest) studies of comics	Don Thompson's and Dick Lupoff's' 1973 THE COMIC-BOOK BOOK is even finer than the book that precedes this, the 1970 ALL IN COLOR FOR A DIME. I used to love reading this when I was a child, wishing I could somehow get my hands on reprints of the 1940s comics stories so lovingly retold here (many of which were long out of print when I read this), especially in Maggie Thompson's fine essay on \\"The Spirit.\\" Now that those old \\"Spirit\\" stories have been reproduced by DC, it's fun to go back and read these essays again, and the fascinating background information about the comics creators. the highlight of the whole book is Juanita Coulson's hilarious take on Golden Age superheroines, \\"Of (Super) Human Bondage\\": her detailing of the absurdities in an old Wonder Woman story (WW vs. Giganta the Gorilla Girl) are uproarious as well as very forward thinking.	2003-05-17
US	50684595	R1D41WM9R6QQRH	1563896761	135587387	Spirit, The - Archives, Volume 3: July 6 - December 26, 1941 (Spirit Archives)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Where Eisner really begins to take off	What's so astonishing about these stories is how variegated and simulatneously superb they were week after week after week--it's astonishing to think of Eisner generating not only such sophisticated and variegated material (almost no single story reads like any other--he changes the tone again and again and again, from sentimental to suspenseful to humorous to scary), but that he did so on a weekly basis. This collection shows him already at top form, and collects some of the most famous of all the SPIRIT stories, including \\"The Oldest Man in the World\\" (justly celebrated by Maggie Thompson in  ALL IN COLOR FOR A DIME) and \\"The Jewel of Death\\" (previously reprinted in Jules Feiffer's book on superhero comics).<br />Anyone interested in comics at all should buy these just to study Eisner's incredible storytelling technique: in just a few pages every week he could shorehorn in an amazing amount of material. His stories often show astonishing sophistication in narrative compression, and his use of sophiticated layouts and angles seems not just to be informed by film noir but actually to predate its greatest advances. Look, too, at how deftly he delineates character: the Spirit, Ellen, Commissioner Dolan, Satin, and Ebony (who is really the star of the strip at this point) are shown to have complex and multilayered personalities, far ahead of anything done before Eisner (or, some would even say, since).	2003-05-11
US	50684595	R1LWPGFVJEC6LT	0743222946	337618584	At Swim, Two Boys	Books	5	3	4	N	N	One of the most important gay novels ever written	Yes, I would go so far as to make that claim.<br />At first AT SWIM, TWO BOYS reads, in its first fifty pages or so, too much like the earlier chapters of the \\"Odyssey\\" section of Joyce's ULYSSES: the stream-of-consciousness style, the detailed description of early 20th-century lower- middle-class Dublin, the Bloomian everyman character of Jim Mack's father. But as it continues you begin to see how orginal Jamie O'Neill really is in this novel even as he plays off Joyce's style and milieu with Oscar Wilde's and Lady Gregory's biographies. The world of detail that swims around young Jim Mack and his love interest, Doyler Doyle, is astonishing, and the sophistication of linguistic play every bit as remarkable as you'd expect in a major Irish author. And the balancing of the political demands of the nascent independent Irish nation with the private world of the two young gay lovers seems something O'Neill has done that is completely new and original. This is one of the best books I've read in years--stay with it, because it's worth it.	2003-04-08
US	50684595	R24RQMRAEVMI8X	0060987103	816790174	Wicked: The Life and Times of the Wicked Witch of the West	Books	5	5	7	N	N	An astonishing and sophisticated fantasia on L. Frank Baum	Most of the disappointed reviews of Maguire's masterwork come from people expecting this book to be something it is not--to be somehow more like the 1939 movie THE WIZARD OF OZ, or like the 14 L. Frank Baum Oz books. Maguire's novel is like neither in tone, though it was certainly inspired by both, and uses as its coordinates the Oz mythology. Maguire's Oz is very thoroughly research-based on the Oz books and yet it is much darker and more sophisticated than Baum's Oz: Maguire manages to invent complex religious, political, and sexual-social systems for his version of Baum's wonderland. The novel ingeniously uses details and unanswered questions from the previous Oz books (why are the silver shoes so desirable? how did the two witch-sisters come to be rulers in the East and the West? what was the Good Witch of the North doing in Munchkinland, in the East, when Dorothy arrived?) and along the way presents a variety of deeply involving characters: Galinda, a Gillikin beauty will grow up to be the Good Witch of the North (Maguire tantalizingly never explains how Glinda will end up in the South at the end of Dorothy's jorney in a different guise); Nessarose, the armless and fanatically religious Eminence of the East; and, at the book's center, the marvelously complex and empathetic Elphaba, who will become the both the Witch of the West and Wicked by the novel's end.<br />You're best off reading this book if you read the Baum books when you were younger, but you're also best off understanding they're not going to be quite the same. Maguire's is a rich, deep philosophical novel about the nature of evil and of governing systems, as well as a very funny and absorbing adventure story. It deserves to be the cult classic it has become.	2003-02-26
US	50684595	R2OMKK73L7B0YW	0679433031	422243324	Romancing: The Life and Work of Henry Green	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A highly readable biography of a great original	Henry Green always hovers somewhere at the margins of the British modernist canon, just as he did during his own lifetime. Despite the exceptional admiration expressed for his strange novels by writers as diverse as Eudora Welty, terry Southern, John Ashbery and John Updike, as Green himself bemoaned in his later years he never received any of the major British writing awards nor is he taught with the consistency his beautiful novels deserve. Here is the first real biography of Green, and the fine critic and biographer Jeremy Treglown appreciates the inherent glamor of Green's career. Born Henry Yorke, the son of a wealthy industrialist's family with aristocratic connections, Green went to school with Anthony Powell and Evelyn Waugh. He and his well-born wife &quot;Dig&quot; were considered among the most goldenhaired of the &quot;Bright Young Things&quot; beloved by London gossip columnists in the Thirties, and during his lifetime he enjoyed relationships with women as talented and diverse as Rosamund Lehmann and Kitty Freud.<br />Treglown may focus perhaps too much on the more gossipy aspects of Green's life, to the detriment of an understanding of his writing process. Although the novels are each given extensive (and intelligent) analysis, one wishes more space had been given to how Green originated his distinctive writing style. (The withdrawal of assistance and authorization from Green's only son, Sebastian Yorke, may explain some of this brevity.) But for all of that, the biography is one of the most readable and enjoyable of a modernist British writer I've encountered in some time: Treglown has a lovely sense of narrative direction and impulse which makes the book genuinely involving.	2003-02-08
US	50684595	R4JW7767F84A6	1590170342	653955479	The Fountain Overflows (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	5	39	39	N	Y	An extraordinary study of the extraordinary	Rebecca West's THE FOUNTAIN OVERFLOWS, published in 1956, is one of the last great British modernist novels. Usually overlooked on modernism course syllabi in favor of West's shorter (but not as profound) THE RETURN OF THE SOLDIER, THE FOUNTAIN OVERFLOWS is an exceptionally funny and evocative portrait of a shabby-genteel family of thinkers and artists at the turn of the century in a London suburb. The narrator, Rose Aubrey, and her twin sister Mary are young pianists; like their younger brother, the adored and otherwordly Richard Quin, a flautist, they are encouraged by their nervous and kindly mother, herself an accomplished musician in her youth. (The musical inadequacies of the eldest daughter, Cordelia, form the longest running joke in the novel--and eventually its greatest emotional payoff.) They live practically hand-to-mouth given their unending state of destitution wrought upon them by their handsome and mercurial father, who loves his family but cannot provide a stable life for them. Yet despite their poverty the family's life is never shown to be anything less than magical, given the gifts and talents the parents have for seeing the world always as a wondrous place. This sense of the ordinary transformed into the extraordinary, the book's great theme, is mirrored both in West's gorgeously descriptive prose and in the family's regular encounters with the supernatural: ghosts, telepathy, and poltergeists play important parts in the novel. The novel is episodic, in the way of its comic antecedents, such as Fielding, early Dickens, and Elizabeth Gaskell's CRANFORD. Still, West's sense of a strong narrative to the family's fortunes keeps you in narrative suspense nonetheless: as you read it you cannot wait to see what happens to the family next.	2003-01-21
US	50684595	R3P77B7N0PWI8Y	0312243022	785940945	The Hours: A Novel	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Admirable intentions, but part of the book is too derivative	Michael Cunningham's THE HOURS has been much adored as an homage to Virginia Wolf's MRS. DALLOWAY. The novel, of course, tells three interlocking stories, after first beginning with the narrative of Woolf's suicide in 1941. It tells of Woolf's attempts at starting the novel in 1923, while in enforced isolation with her husband at Hogarth House in Richmond; of Laura Brown, a post-war Los Angeles suburban housewife's unravelling on a day when she read the novel for the first time; and of \\"Clarissa Vaughn,\\" a contemporary woman much like Clarissa Dalloway herself who prepares a party to honor her dearest friend who is dying of AIDS on the day he is to win a major literary award.<br />The first and second strands of Cunningham's novel are lovely. Cunningham admirably brings something new to our conception of Virginia Woolf and her complicated relations with her sister, husband and servants. His second strand, \\"Mrs. Brown\\" (a tribute, of course, to Woolf's famous essay \\"Mr. Bennett and Mrs. Brown\\" and its conception of what 20th-century authors owe to their characters), is the most beautiful and original section of the book: Laura Brown does seem to carry out luminously Woolf's exhortation for contemporary authors to represent faithfully the inner life. But it is in the third strand, the contemporary story, that the book doesn't come off at all. rather than as a postmodern homage, the section reads as a simultaneously bad and derivative imitative of MRS. DALLOWAY: I found myself cringing in these sections at Cunningham's weak imitations of Woolf's plot and prose. Despite its ingenious and noble intentions, this sequence prevents the novel, in the end, from fully deserving the praise it has garnered.	2003-01-19
US	50684595	R16HWYFF3QZR89	0812930010	13294741	The New York Times Guide to the Best 1,000 Movies Ever Made	Books	3	11	14	N	N	Not that useful or enjoyable a reference tool	While its potentially very interesting to see what the Paper of Record thought about the great films of the last seventy-five years, it's in reality often not very useful, since Bosley Crowther, the main Times reviewer for decades, was the most middlebrow of reviewers. He seemed baffled or unaffected by most of the films later scholars and even the better contemporary critics (like Sarris or Kael) have found important. His successor, Vincent Canby, was better, but again had very predictable enthusiasms (including his notorious fondness for Woody Allen, whom he seemed to believe could do no wrong). Only Canby's successor Janet Maslin seems a reviewer whose writings are worth collecting, and her takes on films of the Eighties and Nineties are what makes this collection in the end worth owning.	2003-01-18
US	50684595	R1WU6JFPGYFCYK	159017027X	139677588	In the Freud Archives (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Janet Malcolm at her best	Malcolm's masterly study of the uproar over Jeffrey Moussaieff Masson's fight with the trustees of the Freud Archives has been out of print for years, despite the famous controversy (and multiple libel suits) the book itself occasioned upon its publication. It has been deservedly been brought back into print into this nifty little edition by the NYRB Press, featuring on its cover one of Malcolm's own fascinating collage pieces. Like all of Janet Malcolm's later work, it centers around fierce intellectual debates concerning the ownership and representation of ideas, and the enormous cruelties academics and writers are willing to wage upon one another in the name of &quot;truth.&quot; Also, like all her subsequent work, IN THE FREUD ARCHIVES centers upon the inherent problems of bias in narrative, and how aggrieved individuals often betray themselves (as in psychoanalysis) when they most want to win an audience's confidence. Although Masson sued Malcolm (ultimately unsuccessfully) for his portrayal in this study, he might even be thankful that she has immortalized him (more than his own writings ever may) as a fantastic and mercurial character.	2003-01-06
US	50684595	R2V6O7CWEET03Q	1590170253	474322786	The Private Memoirs and Confessions of a Justified Sinner (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	As haunting and unusual as the events it describes	James Hogg's masterpiece, this strange and evocative study of the effects of Calvinist doctrine on the Scottish mind, has slowly edged its way into the canon in the last twenty years largely because it is first and foremost a rattling good read. Like all the great Scottish novelists from Walter Scott to Robert Louis Stevenson to Muriel Spark, Hogg was haunted by the dual promise of Edinburgh both as the refined cosmopolitan Renaissance home of Boswell as well as the fanatically religious city of John Knox. THE PRIVATE MEMOIRS is a response to that dual inheritance, and the novel is filled with doubles and dual structures: two brothers (born on two floors of the same house) vie for filial recognition; one brother duplicates himself when he is visited by a devil figure, Gil-Martin, in his exact semblance; and the story is told in two parts, and one of those is itself doubled. Although the Scots dialect in sections is a real chore to get through, the book is a marvelous frightening read nonetheless, and NYRB has wrapped it all up in a glorious cover featuring a famous Blake illustration. This isn't an easy ghost read, but it is tremendously repaying.	2003-01-05
US	50684595	R37OUQQTUQFEW1	0805013679	612286553	5001 Nights at the Movies (Holt Paperback)	Books	5	30	34	N	N	The sine qua non of movie reference guides	Since this book first came out in the mid 1980s I have gone through no less than four well-thumbed, well-handled editions that have fallen apart from overuse. This is a compendium of all Pauline Kael's shorter reviews from the front of THE NEW YORKER, and it has perhaps given me more pleasure than any other book in my life. By no means exhaustive (Kael even made a gesture towards its ultimate incompleteness by neglecting to comment directly on GONE WITH THE WIND and THE WIZARD OF OZ), the book covers more films than you would imagine, and its always fun to see what Kael saw and what she thought about it. Her aesthetic--simultaneously magisterial and informal, Olympian and fun-loving--has been discussed, critiqued, and even criticized to death; yet there is no getting around the fact that she is not only smarter than most other movie critics but also funnier. Her reviews of works as disparate as \\"The White Cliffs of Dover,\\" \\"The Sound of Music,\\" and the 1951 \\"Show Boat,\\" have given me joy for years. Buy this, and see if you don't have to buy yourself another copy when the first one wears out.	2003-01-05
US	50684595	R2COM4B7EU00UF	0262025329	128350704	The  World of Proust, as seen by Paul Nadar	Books	5	14	15	N	Y	Splendid peek into Proust's beau monde	This is a must for any fan of Proust--you get to see not only what the originals for his most memorable characters (the Ducehsse de Guermantes, Swann, Charlus, Mme. verdurin) looked like, but also the interior of one of the great fin-de-siecle chateaus where one couple (the Prince and Princess Radziwell) lived. The Nadar photographs are sharp, startling and magnificent. I've wanted a book like this for years.	2002-12-15
US	50684595	R1KLOCO6OTX9FV	1573228737	595147475	Affinity	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	A pageturner that wins your confidence	\\"Confidence\\" is the operative watchword of Sarah Waters's splendid second novel set in the Victorian period: it is told through the confidences told in the diaries of two women, one a wealthy single woman who is visiting prisoners in a London pentitentiary, and the other a medium who has been arrested for fraud. As the novel continues, Margaret Prior slowly comes to gain confidence in the medium, Selina Dawes, especially when she herself is visited by ghostly manifestations. It is almost impossible to put the novel down: it gains your own confiedence as you go along, and you come to care desperately about the characters. But this (like Waters's next novel FINGERSMITH) is the rare pageturner that also builds a complex web of allusion and metaphor as it proceeds.	2002-12-15
US	50684595	RGOBDEIMFJPSX	0375414487	724576864	Nobody's Perfect: Writings from The New Yorker	Books	2	22	32	N	N	Smart-aleck humor, but no real vision	Even though he literally replaced Terrence rafferty as the film critic of THE NEW YORKER in the early 90s, Anthony Lane actually had much bigger shoes to fill: Pauline Kael's. The lesson learned from this collection of his writings: he's not Pauline Kael. Lane can be very funny when he's savaging a bad summer popcorn movie, but ripping things to shreds is about all he can do (and moreover he sets up his own jokes too easily--you can always see the punchline coming). And, unlike Kael, he doesn't really seem to stand for anything: you get no sense of his governing aesthetic in these reviews and pieces. When he likes a film (like &quot;The English Patient&quot;) he goes too far overboard and his gushing seems embarrassing. Other transplanted Brits, I've noticed, tend to like Lane's snarky humor very much, and there's no question he can write well. But you just don't leave this collection feeling that movies (or for that matter, culture) deeply matter, as you do when you read the best film critics (like Kael or James Agee).	2002-12-09
US	50684595	ROVQ7G30S35IR	1573229725	595147475	Fingersmith	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A genuinely sensational contemporary "sensation novel"	Since John Fowles's THE FRENCH LIEUTENANT'S WOMEN three decades ago many British novelists have tried to recapture the style and feel of the great pageturners from the novel's heyday, the Victorian era, often with mixed results. Sarah Waters, like Charles Palliser, has carved out a career for herself almost wholly in this subgenre, and succeeds even more brilliantly than Palliser. Her latest novel, FINGERSMITH, beautifully recaptures the can't-put-it-down excitement of her literary forerunner Wilkie Collins, and narrates the story of a group of thieves who engineer a cruel plot to commit an heiress to a madhouse with real aplomb and skill. But the novel is even better than that: it brings out into the open social and cultural concerns Collins or Dickens could not have spoken about quite so directly (particularly pornography and same-sex eroticism), and shows great insight into the metafictional issues involved in reworking this subgenre of the sensation novel. I recommend this extremely highly.	2002-11-20
US	50684595	R1GAI3JEHFHSLZ	0375724397	350966058	The Abomination: A Novel	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A ferocious and intelligent debut by an exciting new voice	Paul Golding's superb first novel is a coming-of-age story of an extremely wealthy gay man whose upbringing amidst servants on a country estate on a Spanish island and then at the best Catholic British public chools would seem to an outsider one of exceptional privilege. But the story Golding's protagonist, James Moore, has to tell is one of considerable horror: virtually ignored by his self-indulgent and spoiled parents, he finds his boarding schools nightmares where his peers mericlessly attack or shun him, and his teachers either abet his tormentors or corrupt him sexually. The novel's superb titles carries multiple meanings: while James is eventually termed an \\"abomination\\" by his own father (following the words of Leviticus in its injunction against men sleeping with other men), more abominations might more readily those practised against James in his childhood. And yet by the time James is an adult, and narrates the novel for us, he had become something of a moral abomination himself, and of course not at all in the sense either his father or the writers of Leviticus meant. His voice has become full of rancor and venom, his snobbery ruthless and cruel, his capacity to love almost entirely stunted. Golding is quite unsparing in his treatment of his protagonist, and seems clear (through his use of Moore's purpled and poisonous narrating voice) that not all of James's failings can be laid at the feet of his parents, teachers, or tormentors.<br />This is one of the most exciting and intelligent debuts in gay fiction since Alan Hollinghurst's THE SWIMMING-POOL LIBRARY, and the two works can be justly compared. Golding's James Moore and Hollinghurst's William Beckwith share much in common: in their expensive British educations, their sexual promiscuities, and their savage snobbism. But whereas Hollinghurst attempted to critique his protagonist's character via context (showing how obtuse beckwith was to anything but himself or his pleasures), Golding more convincingly and bravely allows his protagonist's lurid furies to stand as a more direct means of critiquing his excesses. The novel's framework, though interesting (showing an adult James becoming enamored of a male prostitute, and primping himself elaborately before their hired tryst), perhaps does not come across wholly as Golding intends: we seem to lose a good deal of understanding as to what has happened to Moore in the intervening fifteen years between leaving for Oxford and the framing sequence that needs elaboration. Still, the debut is magnificent; this may be the best new gay novel to come down the pike in years.	2002-10-21
US	50684595	R3MMX7ZVR2SVP6	1590170172	255337606	The World of Odysseus (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	5	24	27	N	N	A work of classical scholarship that is TRULY a classic	Moses Finley's WORLD OF ODYSSEUS is that rarest of rarities: it is a work of historical-literary scholarship that so far hasn't dated hardly at all. As such, it makes the perfect edition to the NYRB Classics series: this nifty little study gives the reader a very informative (and mostly very accurate) overview of life during Homer's age, the so-called \\"Dark Ages\\" of ancient Greece. The iconoclasm of Finley's approach--his daring refusal to believe the Homeric epics gave accurate portraits of the Mycenaean Age they purported to describe, and his insistence that they rather spoke to Homer's own time--still seems brave and innovative fifty years later, and Bernard Knox does a superb job contextualizing the impact of Finley's study.	2002-09-30
US	50684595	R2VTI76024WNNP	1590170261	693176740	The Colour Out of Space: Tales of Cosmic Horror by Lovecraft, Blackwood, Machen, Poe, and Other Masters of the Weird (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	A superb collection with only a few missteps	This book isn't \\"by\\" H. P. Lovecraft: rather it's a collection of stories of what he would call \\"cosmic horror\\" assembled by D. Thin based largely on Lovecraft's personal favorites in the horror fiction genre and including what Lovecraft considered his very best short story, \\"The Colour Out of Space\\" (which must have been inspired by accounts of radium poisoning at the time). The choices are fine, and several famous and forgotten horror classics, such as Arthur Machen's wonderfully disorienting \\"The White People,\\" which seems to anticipate the fiction of Angela Carter, and Algernon Blackwood's splendidly eerie \\"The Willows,\\" which must have been an inspiration behind THE BLAIR WITCH PROJECT, are included. There are a few missteps in inclusion, such as Bram Stoker's piece of Grand Guignol \\"The Squaw\\"--which, though quite gruesome, seems to have nothing to do with the collection's theme--and also displays his irritating fascination with American Western accents which he poorly imitates, as he also does in DRACULA. And where are the illustrations to the stories advertised?	2002-09-21
US	50684595	R1ZOKCRAFTDJ77	1856190005	707890451	Dickens	Books	5	63	63	N	N	One of the best (and most unusual) biographies in English	It's absolutely shocking Peter Ackroyd's magisterial and magical biography of Charles Dickens has fallen out of print: I think I had more pure readerly pleasure reading this work than just about any biography or novel I've read in the last fifteen years. This is really a one-of-a-kind work: Ackroyd writes his life of Dickens as if it were a Dickens novel, and the descriptions of Dickens's London and Rochester spill out in page after page of densely glorious prose. It's a long book, and it is not lightly undertaken, and Ackroyd does some very out-of-fashion gestures here (like profess his belief in Dickens' genius, as other reviewers have noted) very readily. But I can't think of a biography I would recommend more highly.	2002-08-29
US	50684595	RXFWQCLAWRV00	159017013X	936628636	The Ten Thousand Things	Books	5	19	20	N	Y	Mysterious and lovely	Dermout's classic novel is the kind the New York Review of Books Classics loves to bring out: a cult favorite with a one-of-a-kind flavor. The dreamy, simple tone belies the extreme formal complexity of the work: actually consisting really of a novella and several appended tales, the work brings everything together at the conclusion. This is a book to be read and re-read; its mysteries are not readily plumbed but are rewarding nonetheless.	2002-08-29
US	50684595	R1PO7M9CM919OW	1563897083	261609063	Flash & Green Lantern: The Brave and the Bold	Books	4	24	25	N	N	Mark Waid at his best	One reason old DC fans love Mark Waid so much is because of his real attention and devoted care for the company's old Silver Age icons, like the Hal Jordan Green lantern and the Barry Allen Flash. Both characters were killed off by the company years ago in favor of hipper new versions, but Waid shows what a mistake this was by showing enormous depths behind this old pair of Justice Leaguers. The cocky, skirtchasing Hal Jordan and the staid, reliable Barry Allen always seemed like the most unlikeliest of pairings, but Waid gives a plausible account for how two such dissimilar men could actually become the best of friends. The best story, by far, is the last, which analyzes the differences between Barry's utter devotion to his dead wife Iris and Hal's neurotic ongoing longtime relationship with his troubled boss Carol Ferris; it builds beautifully off of years of characterization and plotting by former FLASH and GREEN LANTERN scripters (in particular Cary bates and Steve Engelhart), and offers the return of one of most greatly missed Silver Age DC villains, Star Sapphire.	2002-07-21
US	50684595	R102WLZSBR891R	1400045045	735398183	The Blood Doctor: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A fine read (even though it is a guessable mystery)	There are many writers as prolific as Ruth Rendell/Barbara Vine, but how many have such a superior record of pleasing their readers every time out of the gate? Once again, this is a superior psychological study by Vine--this time into the arcana of the House of Lords and the peerage. The narrator, who witnesses the dismanlting of the House of Lords for all effects and purposes in 1999, simultaneously conducts biographical research into the life of his great-grandfather, a personal physician to Queen Victoria who was knighted for his care of her son Leopold's ultimately deadly haemophilia, and who seems to have been surrounded throughout his lifetime by an exceptionally high mortality rate among his family members. Most readers will guess the answer to the mystery surrounding the first Lord Nanther, but the pleasure of the book is more in its unusual atmosphere, its intriguing structure (reminiscent of Ackerley's famous memoir MY FATHER AND MYSELF), and its intriguing narrator, who starts out somewhat blandly but by the end of the book emerges as a complex character: a kindhearted liberal who harbors some prejudices and neuroses of his own.	2002-07-16
US	50684595	R2OF8SUVVR65Z2	0684871904	619470198	Venice: Lion City - The Religion of Empire	Books	3	36	40	N	N	An intelligent book in an unsatisfactory edition	Gary Wills's VENICE: LION CITY is a very intelligent study in cultural criticism by a popular and eminent American historian: as the book's dustcover makes clear, Simon and Schuster wants to market this as Wills' entry into Simon Schama territory. Basically, he's trying to interpret the most famous works of Venetian Renaissance art and architecture through the pervasive imperial ideology of what was an odd throwback to a Hellenistic city-state. The book works best for someone with a strong familiarity with the art of Venice already, and Wills answers some very intriguing questions along the way both on a factual level (why is the winged lion used to represent St. Mark, the city's patron? Why were Christians in earlier times so obsessed with saints' relics?) and on the interpretive level as well (why are Bellini's Madonnas so inward-looking?). But Simon and Schuster have not served this book well on many levels. It deserves a much fancier format than it is allowed, with much larger reproductions and more full-colored plates: some works Wills discusses (like Titan's &quot;Assumption&quot;) are not reproduced at all, and a massive work like Tintoretto's &quot;Crucifixion&quot;--so important to Wills' argument--deserves a two-page (or fold-out) reproduction than the mere one page it receives. Also, someone needed to edit the book much more vigorously. I counted several times when Wills basically repeats an entire paragraph of interpretation from earlier in the work. This is a good book, but not for the casual reader, and it deserves in the future a much more sophisticated revision and re-issue.	2002-07-08
US	50684595	RVTVGS8L5WUQ4	0679722564	570736767	The Swimming-Pool Library	Books	4	38	42	N	N	One of the most intelligent gay novels in years	Alan Hollinghurst may be the most intelligent gay English-language novelist writing today, with the possible exceptions of Edmund White and Gore Vidal, but Hollinghurst is neither so precious as White nor so nutty as Vidal. THE SWIMMING-POOL LIBRARY was his first effort, and remains his best. It marvelously captures the life enjoyed by a wealthy, handsome, leisured, and predatory London aristocrat, William Beckwith, in the early Eighties, and the way his life changes when he meets Chalres Beckwith, a titled man whom Beckwith incorrectly assumes lived a life very similar to his own. The novel is basically about the absence of gay history at the time it was written, and the ways in which privilege and security can be taken for granted. The book read very differently in 1988 (at the darkest moments of the AIDS crisis) than it does today, and its message seems less elegiac in many ways than before. It's not a novel without its problems: although Beckwith is clearly intended to be understood as morally blinkered (and he does get a something of a comeuppance eventually), his incessant vanity and self-congratulation does make him eventually a bit of a bore as first-person narrators go. Hollinghurst also witholds crucial information about the plot until the very last fifty pages of the novel, as he did in his next effort THE FOLDING STAR, so that you're not even fully aware of what the mystery guiding the novel's action really is until fairly late in the game. While this makes the final revelation more of a surprise, the book reads much better the second time than the first, when (as again with THE FOLDING STAR) there seems to be little plot to sustain your interest. Most readers have found Hollinghrust's third book, THE SPELL, the weakest of his efforts so far: it will be interesting to see if he can either repeat or surmount the success of THE SWIMMING-POOL LIBRARY.	2002-07-08
US	50684595	R25FJY3O6P5EGZ	0940322862	493881222	Mary Olivier: A Life (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	5	14	15	N	Y	A superb (if flawed) modernist Bildungsroman	MARY OLIVIER: A LIFE came out serialized in the same issues of THE LITTLE REVIEW as James Joyce's ULYSSES, and has never received its proper due for its achievement. part of this may also stem that it was written ten to fifteen years after the great spate of Edwardian parricidal Bildungsromans, which include Joyce's PORTRAIT, Lawrence's SONS AND LOVERS, Maugham's OF HUMAN BONDAGE, Bennett's CLAYHANGER and Butler's THE WAY OF ALL FLESH. Yet MARY OLIVIER deserves at the very least to be in such fine company. May Sinclair herself coined the term \\"stream-of-consciousness\\" to describe the technique of Dorothy Richardson, and she uses this technique herself here in recounting the life of a young woman from the Victorian Sixties to late middle age. The results are astonishing: it may remind you a bit of Joyce's PORTRAIT, and a bit of Katherine Mansfield's Burnell Family stories, but it's also like neither of them. Mary and her brothers must revolt against their father's jealous possessiveness of his wife and their mother's sweet manipulations and doctrinaire piety, but they can never bring themselves to fully hate them. they realize that their parents are also actual people, flawed and yearning to love, and Sinclair outstrips many other writers of Bildungsromans by giving the parents their due. The last third of the book (after the father dies) is a bit tedious, but the novel is a real triumph, especially in its presentation of the way children think about their parents, the world around them, and even philosophical matters.	2002-07-05
US	50684595	R2O2AHQEPXXTQ7	0140434925	91919063	Little Dorrit (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	12	15	N	Y	&quot;None of your eyes at me! Take that!&quot;	Dickens' last novels (with the exception of the unfinished EDWIN DROOD) really form a group all to themselves: exceptionally concerned with the excesses of social institutions and the cruelties of high society, they in some ways read more like Trollope and Thackeray than they do Dickens' own earlier works, although they retain Dickens's fine gift for character and bite. LITTLE DORRIT is proabbly my favorite of the later works: its multiple stories are extremely gripping, and his satire at its sharpest and most necessary. Many people say these later novels are not as funny as his earlier works, but DORRIT is to me an exception: there are few funnier (or more dear) characters in Dickens' repertoire than the breathless, kindhearted Flora Finching, and I find myself almost helpless with laughter whenever Flora's senile and hostile charge, Mr F's Aunt, makes her perfectly doled-out appearances in these pages. (Arguably the funniest scene Dickens ever wrote is the scene with this &quot;most excellent woman&quot; and Arthur Clennam and the crust of bread). This is a great Dickens novel even for people who tend not to like Dickens (and yes, there are some of them, as hard as that may be for the rest of us to believe).	2002-06-30
US	50684595	R20P1EXRH0B9VE	015693521X	497997687	Venice Observed (Art and Places)	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Pure pleasure	This is one of McCarthy's most delightful books, although it may also be her least controversial. VENICE OBSERVED might be the best single travel book ever written on Venice, and MCarthy's tone is leisurely and informative, her style witty and engaging. Her asides about her personal experiences in the city complement her grander historical and artistic musings: you never feel alienated from her prose (the way you can in her earlier THE STONES OF FLORENCE). Her anecdotes about the doges, Tintoretto, Veronese, the Councils, etc. greatly enhanced one's understanding of the city, and her musings on the art are thoughtful and illuminating.	2002-06-27
US	50684595	RHEDGE7556I0O	0156983567	323922531	The World of Venice: Revised Edition	Books	3	51	55	N	N	Not Morris's best	Although I am an enormous fan of Morris's later works, this early study of Venice (originally published in England simply as VENICE) is just not up to the level of her later work. When it came out Morris hadn't yet mastered either her style or her level of tone: as a result, the work reads much too preciously, with far too many trivial examples to support her points, too much xenophobic snobbery aimed towards tourists (something Morris later worjked very hard *against* in her other works), and an experience of venice that doesn;t really seem to capture the city at all. When this book wasd written several other studies of Italian cities were coming out by older, more experienced writers, and it's useful to compare them with Morris's VENICE: Mary McCarthy's STONES OF FLORENCE and VENICE OBSERVED are much more readable, and Elizabeth Bowen's beautiful A TIME IN ROME captures the city in a much more recognizable way than Morris's now-dated study does. but this was a useful text for Morris to correct the immaturities of his style before he (later she) went on to master the genre and become its leading living practitioner.	2002-06-27
US	50684595	R1WR66FLBJZPA0	015685080X	855645559	The Stones of Florence	Books	4	39	40	N	N	After an irritating start, a real pleasure	In the first chapter of THE STONES OF FLORENCE Mary McCarthy weighs in against everyone who might want to know about Florence who deeply irritates her: casual tourists, Europeans who love Florence deeply... who, you might wonder, is the book intended for? But once she gets this out of her system (though not ever entirely--as the book continues she often takes little sideswipes at everyone, even including Goethe!), the book settles down to be a very idiosyncratic and informative study of a city Mccarthy loves and knows well. Skip the intro (or at least try not to let it get under your collar) and keep plugging along: this is a highly readable and fun little book.	2002-06-27
US	50684595	R1DO749AATL50D	0609610252	558871711	Adam and Eve and Pinch Me	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Innocence and evil, Rendell-style	Twice in this novel, Laf, probably the least-damaged of its many vivid characters, asks if someone killed a human monster (like a Hitler or a Mussolini) and didn't know what he or she were doing, whether it would be an evil act. This novel is in large part a response to his question. Jeff, a very handsome con artist who lives off other women's money, intersects with the lives of a whole series of characters, from the emotionally disturbed Minty to the lovely wealthy Fiona to the ethically-challenged Zillah (his previous wife, and the mother of his miserable children). Although jeff isn;'t fully aware of the damage he inflicts on the women who he seduces and cons, he creates great emotional wreckage in his wake; midway through the novel he is killed, and the rest of the narrative attempts to sort out what happens to everyone else. As far as Ruth Rendell novels go this is right up there with A DARK-ADAPTED EYE in its ethical and narrative complexity: it's very hard to put down, and the characters greatly come to life on the page and then afterwards. Even the most ethically ambiguous characters, (such as the neglectful Zillah and her cruel and snobbish friend Jims) are nevertheless sympathetic to some degree. In Rendell's world there are no escape from the wages of sin: the world as she sees it is so fallen that even  the most innocent characters (such as Minty and Fiona) must suffer for the sins of others.	2002-06-26
US	50684595	R1FXDVXY1JLIV4	0940322250	342023166	Hindoo Holiday: An Indian Journal (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	3	10	11	N	Y	An odd mix	E. M. Forster, whom Ackerley emulated in going to India in the 20s to work as private secretary for a maharajah, has a character in A PASSAGE TO INDIA named Miss Derek, who is private secretary to a rani and who &quot;regarded the entire peninsula as if it were a comic opera.&quot; That basically describes the attitude Ackerley adopts in HINDOO HOLIDAY, which treats an indian princely styate as if it were wildly wacky. No doubt that might have been true to Ackerley when he visited in the 20s, but this book's humor has worn somewhat over the years and seems at times a bit condescending. What has remained interesting and vital are Ackerley's observations about Indian (particularly Hindu) customs and manners, and his deft sensitivity and understatement in his portrayal of the maharajah's (and his own) homoerotic desires: Ackerley's keen observational intelligence, fortunately, outweighs the dated cross-cultural comic aspects of the narrative. While this isn;t nearly at the level of one of his later works like MY FATHER AND MYSELF, it's an intriguing read for anyone interested in India during the raj or early 20th-century homosexuality.	2002-05-17
US	50684595	R1Q8HZBA7XM7FO	0940322129	33665769	My Father and Myself (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	5	19	20	N	Y	Ackerley at his finest	The NYRB Classics series pretty much started out with a slew of reprints of the cult writer J.R. Ackerley, including his three memoirs (this, MY DOG TULIP and HINDOO HOLIDAY) and his one novel (WE THINK THE WORLD OF YOU). This, I would say, is easily his finest work. Ackerley's masterful reconstruction of his father's mysterious lovelife (comprising two unwed households and several unexplained longterm \\"friendships\\" with wealthy men) and his own conflicted sex life as a gay man in early twentieth-century London. Ackerley's tone always seems extremely honest, and while the narrative never comes to any absolute conclusions about Ackerley's father you're left convinced that these omissions and gaps are meaningful in and of themselves. This is as about a fine and interesting a memoir  as I can imagine.	2002-05-16
US	50684595	R28SSJ2ADG6RSQ	1590170032	612114712	A Book of Mediterranean Food (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	3	28	32	N	N	Not the best format for a cookbook	The charming little format that makes the NYRB Classics series work so well for novels and memoirs actually works against this classic cookbook. The pages are so small and tightly bound that it's practically impossible to open this little paperback book open and cook from it: moreover, the publishers seemed to use a slightly different typeface for every single different preface David wrote for different editions of this book (all collected here) as well as for Wright's new foreword, which creates something of a headache.<br />The book in and of itself is something of a marvel, though. Elizabeth David was one of the first British or American writers to popularize Mediterranean cooking at mid-century, and this, the first of her cookbooks, is a true classic: superbly written, it will leave you hungry to sample the dishes she describes and recommends.	2002-05-16
US	50684595	R38RF1LKQJJLG5	014118616X	512449782	The Sea, the Sea (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	2	8	8	N	N	Unpleasant, and not the place to start with Murdoch	So many people who want to start reading Iris Murdoch start here, because it's her only novel to win a Booker Prize. This is always a mistake: this is one of her most difficult novels, as even its fans would agree. It is also, to my mind, one of her few unpleasant novels written before 1980: the hero is a very unpleasant and arrogant retired theatre director who has moved to the coast, where he is visited by a group of unpleasant friends from London (who seem to pop in unannounced at all hours). He also comes across the love of his life, whom he is convinced is stuck in an unhappy marriage. The plot goes and goes, but it's hard to care for any of these characters--or even for the plot itself, in that the very rules and stakes of the narrative change illegitimately as it progresses. I've always been surprised by the reputation this novel has garnered: its one of the rare better-known Murdoch novels that not only disappoints but leaves a bitter taste in one's mouth (I would highly recommend instead reading A SEVERED HEAD or THE BELL, which I think are much more successful works).	2002-04-27
US	50684595	R2EBV7RZOHEW9E	0786706600	11660788	Napoleon III: A Life	Books	3	9	10	N	N	A lightweight take on a lightweight emperor	The influence of Napoleon III on nineteenth-century French history and culture is inestimable: his unlikely rise to power after the 1848 Paris revolutions cemented twenty years' worth of extravagance and folly, resulting in the splendors of the Haussmann re-development of the capital city and the  horrors of the Mexican debacle and the Franco-Prussian War. There was probably never a less-likely \\"man of destiny\\" than this emperor, who managed to come to power (and hold on to it) mostly through dumb luck, and if this biography by Fenton Bresler focuses too strongly on the private life of the Second Empire's court it may be suitable for a man who seemed much more interested in managing his mistresses than his empire.<br />Bresler's account is immesely readable and clear, which should be the first requirement of all popular biographies, and you do emerge from it with a strong sense of the personalities of the major figures in Napoleon's life: his amazingly resourceful (and lucky) mother, Queen Hortense of Holland; his sybaritic grandmother Josephine; his fascinating and iron-willed wife the Empress Eugenie; and his manipulative and adoring ministers and cronies. It is true that the lack of political and historical synthesis sometimes seriously mars this work: what may be worse is that Bresler's desire to say at least something that the emperor's other biographers haven't uncovered leads him to point out his newer discoveries (such as that the imperial couple had likely already prepared an escape route to Chislehurst years before the Franco-Prussian War) at overextreme length. Also his reliance on Napoleon's and Eugenie's near-contemporary biographers--whom later historians have dismissed as too fawning and inaccurate--seems a real mistake.	2002-04-25
US	50684595	RENWMJ184JHRW	0618135871	591651540	The Dying Animal	Books	2	27	39	N	Y	More of the same from Roth, only creepier	The last few years have seen a sudden resurgence in Philip Roth's literary reputation as he has come forth with some markedly original work, especially his masterpiece THE HUMAN STAIN. But his newest novella, THE DYING ANIMAL,  seems a step back in the old direction, and seems a recycling of his old themes from his Seventies and Sixties fiction. Once again, an impossibly horny writer and academic living in the New York area uses women for sex with little regard to their feelings or to their existence outside of himself as human beings in their own right. Certainly the novella is concerned with understanding--and even critiquing--Kepesh's ethical positions, but isn't this just all more of the same from Roth? The sexagenarian Kepesh is so morally repulsive that it's hard to want to spend much time with him, and his situation (he not only attracts much, much, much younger women, but seems unable to beat them off with a stick) seems a bit fantastic. Roth has dipped too many times from the same well--and it's become more than a bit embarrassing.	2002-03-30
US	50684595	R27L0V6HA09TGO	0940322978	628325344	Mawrdew Czgowchwz (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	3	18	20	N	Y	Dazzling but not enchanting	The comparisons that have made between MAWRDEW CZGOWCHWZ and the novels of Ronald Firbank are just... perhaps too just. Part of the charm of Firbank's novels is their utter singularity; they seem so unusual that they captivate by their aura of rarity. In MAWRDEW, McCourt transplants the heady atmosphere of Firbank's faraway kingdoms and cities to the \\"Gotham\\" of the postwar era, but the effect seems a little derivative. Moreover,  while McCourt attains the kinds of virtuoso effects of Firbank's prose you keep getting the feeling you're expected to admire the effort rather than be moved by it. There's nothing like the deeply-felt sense of anguish that makes the best of Firbank's novels (such as THE FLOWER BENEATH THE FOOT) really transcend their glibness. Almost inevitably, the foreword for this edition was written by Wayne Koestenbaum: the book seems to have been written exactly with him in mind as its audience.	2002-03-11
US	50684595	R5QNUZHB0WKT7	0375757317	359457484	The Way We Live Now (Modern Library Classics)	Books	4	15	16	N	N	The Way We Still Live Now	The Enron collapse shows that, as long as we continue to enjoy the benefits of capitalism in the West, Trollope's most famous novel will continue to be timely. This has often been called Trollope's best novel: while it does not contain his best writing (which would be found in individual chapters of PHINEAS FINN and THE LAST CHRONICLER OF BARSET), nor is it his funniest (BARCHESTER TOWERS), it is his most consistently engaging in its details of a railway bubble in mid-Victorian London. The great financier at the center of it, Augustus Melmotte, rises from obscurity to be asked to host a dinner for the visiting emperor of China (which forms a splendid setpiece for the novel) on the eve of his financial ruin. The novel is very exciting and enjoyable, and shows Trollope straining the hardest to meet the standards set by his admitted hero, Thackeray; although this certainly doesn't meet the level of VANITY FAIR, it's still pretty good. There is a bit of a trouble that Trollope has too many subplots going and winds up spending hundreds of pages at the end (long after the work's main action is over) having to resolve them. One of the very best of these ongoing stories, the desperate attempts of the contemptibly snobbish (but still oddly sympathetic) Georgiana Longstaffe to find a husband, is as a result resolved much too suddenly and unsatisfactorily. I would still recommend THE WAY WE LIVE NOW as a fine read--and as a very splendid introduction to Trollope.	2002-03-10
US	50684595	R1XBBR5RAKDWGL	0940322722	832299734	Sleepless Nights (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	4	26	27	N	N	Evocative, beautiful, thin	This small novella from NYRB is a much-lauded work by Elizabeth Hardwick from the mid-Seventies; essentially plotless, it's a work of memory (both Proust and Tenessee Williams seem to haunt these pages... as does, oddly, Djuna Barnes) that encompasses autobiographical material from Hardwick's life growing up in Lexington, Kentucky, at Columbia as a graduate student in NYC, and in Boston as the partner of Robert Lowell (though he is never named in the narrative). The prose is often gorgeous (although there are times when it does get a bit NEW YORKER-precious in its sensory observations); the narrative passes much like a very vivid dream or a hallucination, so that though there is little to follow it will stay with you for months afterwards. This new NYRB edition comes with a spectacularly beautiful cover that suggests the hyperreal quality of the narrative, and a vacuous preface that tells you almost nothing about the book .	2002-01-20
US	50684595	R1NIEOC46JKP3F	0940322706	987002192	Letty Fox: Her Luck (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	3	15	21	N	Y	A master modern storyteller (in search of a good editor...)	Many rate Christina Stead among the finest modern writers of the century, and there's almost no denying her skill with shaping a beautiful sentence. Unfortunately, Stead has trouble sometimes shaping a good novel--she tends to go and on--, and this deficiency is largely at work in what many consider her second-best work (after THE MAN WHO LOVED CHILDREN), LETTY FOX: HER LUCK.<br />Letty is a young woman in Manhattan living during wartime largely by her wits, and the beginning twenty pages--detailing her move into a new apartment in the Village--is so marvelous that your readerly expectations become raised to a very high degree. Stead dashes them, however, once you move to her life's narrative, which mostly details a series of women in her extended family depending on men for both money and affection, and doing nearly everything they can think of doing to acquire these things. Some of her ideas are brilliant, and the sentences read gorgeously--but you keep wishing for someone to step in and cut all the repetitions. Readers may find their patience tried by the 600-some pages of very little action, and yet Letty herself remains a very memorable achievement, an addition to a gallery of heroines of such questionable scruples as Defoe's Moll Flanders or Cary's Sarah Monday.	2002-01-18
US	50684595	R25SWU918E3G1B	0375725083	930101336	The Biographer's Tale: A Novel	Books	2	2	3	N	N	A cold and unengaging exercise	There are a surfeit of fine ideas behind Byatt's study of the problem of constructing biographical and historical narratives out of facts, and overall this novel makes intriguing points about what it means to tell a story basded on the truth, and the way this exposes the human need to impose order or sequence on that which might not adhere to any necessary shape. But this novel is about as cold-blooded and unexciting as can be imagined: the character Byatt pins the story upon, Phineas Nanson, remains largely an enigma until the end, and the novel's interest resides much more with academic halls-of-mirrors games than it does with fleshing out any of the other characters. (They all seem pretty stock: the earth-mother environmentalist, the pleasure-loving gay partners, the wise old professor, etc.) Nanson's task--writing a biography of an eminent biographer, Scholes Destry-Scholes--seems motivated for wholly unbelievable and vague reasons, and his views on literary criticism seem about twenty years out of date. Byatt seems to be playing chilly Borgesian games with this narrative: we can only hope she's worked this out of her system, and will return next time to a more engaging romance.	2001-12-31
US	50684595	R3EGE2WH2LD3XF	0743201280	46635028	Trieste and the Meaning of Nowhere	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Sweet melancholy	We can only hope this is not Jan Morris's last book, as she has stated it will be; her intelligence and acumen make it too painful she has finished writing. Her study of Trieste--one of her most treasured--starts perhaps too slowly and cautiously: it gets a bit tedious hearing her repeat how seemingly unremarkable Trieste seems at first glance (it also might sway readers new to Trieste or to Morris's work away from them). but as she continues her evident love and fascination for this city on the Adriatic become more evident, and you begin to see why so many different writers besides Morris, including James Joyce, Italo Svevo, and John Berger, have found Trieste such a remarkable place. Morris recounts much of the city's intriuguing cultural history, and also gives a brief topographical sense of the place. You do miss accompanying photographs--greatly--but that's a small quibble.	2001-12-31
US	50684595	R1UYQV59444YV8	1563897202	70642266	All Star Comics - Archives, Volume 7 (Dc Archive Editions)	Books	3	17	23	N	N	A transitional volume	The five issues of the class Forties series ALL-STAR collected here show a transitional period with the Justice Society of America: this is, is Roy Thomas explains in his intelligent introduction to the volume, just before the great series of Justice Society stories that have been so classically remembered by comics enthusiasts. This has the first of those stories, the marvelous &quot;Revenge of Solomon Grundy,&quot; with its superb artwork (especially in the Joe Kubert Hawkman chapter) and terrific narrative suspense. The other stories collected here are a mixed blend: the Psycho-Pirate story is enormously disappointing, but the Brain Wave story &quot;The Dreams of Madness!&quot; is particularly surreal and nightmarish, and the Landor story has a nifty gimmick. There's too much dreary Johnny Thunder antics for my own personal taste in these stories, and not enough Wonder Woman (why wouldn't they let her participate in the adventures?), but it's got a great Forties feel to it.	2001-12-10
US	50684595	R3LRY6VZV51W3N	0312282990	383312801	The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay	Books	3	4	8	N	Y	Whiz! Bang! Pow! (And--unfortunately--sometimes, Thud!)	The idea behind KAVALIER AND CLAY is so irresistible that it's hard not to like the book even before you've opened: two young men in New York--one a native, the other a Czech emigr--set out to create the greatest superhero comics ever created against the backdrop of the so-called Golden Age of Comics during World War II. Michael Chabon has reaped his highest praise for this sprawling novel, which might fall under the category of what Henry James would call a &quot;loose baggy monster&quot;: the action ranges from suburban Long Island to occupied Prague to Antacrtica, and the list of guest stars includes everyone from Salvador Dali to Eleanor Roosevelt.<br />Chabon's recapturing of the optimism just before the Second World War begins is extremely winning, and the novel is well-researched in terms of its period detail. His decision to make the broadness and romanticism of the characters mirror that of comic characters was not made lightly, but unfortunately it doesn't work out very well: the heroine, Rosa Saks, remains something of an erotic enigma during the war years (she's all kind heart and great sex, but not much else), and the Czech protagonist, Joe Kavalier, is at times embarrassingly sentimentalized. Although Joe's childhood exploits in Prague are quite interesting, his refugee status is often manipulated to earn him special martyr status, and there's something about the Holocaust being used to give a hero a sympathetic backdrop that seems really misguided, to the point of being offensive. After a bizarre episode in Antarctica that seems to belong to another book, the novel mysteriously rights itself: the last sections, which detail the characters' exploits during the early Fifties, when the comics industry comes under attack by the US Congress and child psychologist Frederic Wertham, adds the characters levels of depth and humility they were missing earlier in the work: Rosa becomes fleshed out as a person, and Joe seems every bit as ridiculous as he is romantic.	2001-11-26
US	50684595	RXGEU30MI1ECR	0316776963	491689172	Me Talk Pretty One Day	Books	3	11	14	N	N	Will Success Spoil David Sedaris?	David Sedaris's first books, BARREL FEVER and NAKED, brought him from cult status to national celebrity status because of his singularly hilarious vision of the world. But much of his humor in those books depended on his scruffy, outsider economic status (he made his money before he became famous cleaniong other people's houses in Manhattan) and his extremely bizarre and loveable large family from North Carolina. It was easy to love Sedaris's self-deprecating hero because he was such an underdog; you couldn't help wanting him to win.<br />But since he's become a success his subject matter has changed while his tone has not. It's very hard to feel sorry and luagh at Sedaris's circumstances when his problems include assimilating properly into French culture (his boyfriend owns a farmhouse in Normandy) or choosing among overfancy dishes at expensive Manhattan restaurants. The best bits in this collection--the first story about his lisp correction therapy, his account of his father's peculiar eating habots, and his classic &quot;Big Boy&quot;--retain Sedaris' sense of himself as underdog, and thus are hilarious; the rest of the collection is quite disappointing for those who loved Sedaris's first two books.	2001-11-21
US	50684595	R3TOD75HXJ942C	0231101678	355361281	The Wilde Century	Books	5	2	2	N	N	One of the best gay literary studies in the past decade	After a spate of books in queer studies anachronistically identifying this or that work as &quot;gay,&quot; Alan Sinfield produced this thoughtful, accessible book that gives gay readings their due while simultaneously attempting to read things with a sense of historical responsibility, postulating the Oscar Wilde trial of 1896 as a marker for the formation of a queer identity that incorporates effeminacy into its battery of indicators. A smart, responsible, and well-written study.	2001-11-20
US	50684595	R4ZRBAG8N85TW	0395937604	730212346	Bitter Fame: A Life of Sylvia Plath	Books	3	11	14	N	N	The most controversial Plath biography	Janet Malcolm's superb THE SILENT WOMAN makes this book a must-read for anyone interested in biographical studies. Stevenson's book famously (or infamously) was written with the cooperation of the Plath estate--that is, Plath's windower Ted Hughes and his fearsome sister Olwyn, the latter of whom was berserkly antipathetic to Plath's memory--, and the result is a biography curiously hostile and judgemental of its subject. For good measure, Stevenson included in the book the hilariously bitter memoir of Plath (fittingly entitled \\"Vessel of Wrath\\") by W.S. Merwin's wife Dido, who seems to have been angrily sitting around for twenty years waiting for nothing more than to uncork her fury regarding how Plath once wolfed down some foie gras she had prepared for guests \\"as if it were Aunt Dot's meatloaf.\\" (The memoir seems to embody everything that American guests fearfully fantasize about foreign hosts  judging their every innocent gesture as malicious, selfish, and outrageous.) The result is a fascinating portrait of how, as Malcolm explains in her book, bearing resentful witness against someone else harms the bearer more than the subject of the rant.	2001-11-19
US	50684595	R4SQJLPTPDL06	0192853961	503892264	The French Revolution: A Very Short Introduction	Books	5	58	59	N	N	Extraordinarily successful for what it sets out to do	Many relatively recent books on the French Revolution, such as Simon Schama's excellent CITIZENS, seem to presuppose a basic knowledge of the highlights and terms of the Revolution itself (the Tennis Court Oath, the Jacobins, Thermidor, etc.) but also of its aftermath (Louis XVIII and Charles X, Napoleon;s Egypt campaign, etc.). Doyle's book presupposes almost nothing, and lays out for the common reader not only a very clear and concise of the Revolution itself but also the ancien regime that preceded, and the restorations, republics, and empires that succeeded it. Best of all, it makes interesting claims in its introduction and conclusion as to why the Revolution mattered to the nineteenth and twentieth centuries as an intellectual and political event, and even (for good measure) a coherent account of the battles raging among the Annales schools of historians in France up to the present day. Fine work, and a great introduction.	2001-11-18
US	50684595	R2I1A8F88921JX	0226393747	557641609	Pictures from an Institution (Phoenix Fiction)	Books	5	27	30	N	N	Really worth the read	Randall Jarrell's roman a clef about life in a small college, in that it centers upon a Mary McCarthyesque novelist who is herself embarking upon her own roman a clef (very much like THE GROVES OF ACADEME) about the &quot;little people&quot; who also trundle through the small college campus where she is allowed to stride magnificently like a contemptuous giantess. Thus the reader has the double pleasure of seeing her ironic views of the failings of the people around her contextualized by his or her ironic view of her own grosser moral failings. The giddy mise-en-abyme effect of this is tempered at the end, wherein the novel's narrating consciousness (our guide through this academic Wonderland ) must confront whether there is something to find beautiful--and sincerely--in this most artificial and insincere of playworlds. A wonderful work.	2001-11-16
US	50684595	R143LX66WLHVQ1	0691009406	16694148	What Makes Us Think? A Neuroscientist and a Philosopher Argue about Ethics, Human Nature, and the Brain	Books	2	14	18	N	N	Intelligent, disorganized, lively, pompous	The topic matter of this study--the interface between the sciences of neurobiology and philosophy as they try to resolve the mind-body problem of dualism vs. monism--is extremely promising, and the participants in the debate (Jean Changeux and Paul Ricouer) are eminetly qualified to attend to it. Their discussion is exciting and thoughtful, though it is marred by their lack of a common language (which seems to undermine their whole strategy from the beginning). They can't even agree at times on basic terms, and at times they try to cover these differences by engaging in an irritating exchange of name-dropping (thereby belying the claim on the book's dust jacket that this book is accessible to non-specialists--you're expected not only to know who Kant and Spinoza are and what they've said on the subject, but also the Churchlands, Eccles, etc.) and &quot;mutual admiration society&quot; overpraising of one another. You do come to learn the impasses in their respective disciplines in speaking to one another, but the book seems very scattershot and happenstance. It seems like a noble project that failed due to a lack of structure and to the participants' oversized egos.	2001-11-16
US	50684595	R26Q8MRDLIVLSJ	0805063889	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Perhaps a bit too glib, but otherwise a needed work	A book like this has been depserately needed to counter those who have smugly stated that poverty no longer exists in America, or that the economic boom of the Nineties meant prosperity for all. Ehrenreich's muckraking work of going undercover in various lowpaying jobs (a waitress in Key West, a cleaning woman in Portland, Maine, and a Wal-Mart worker in Minneapolis) shows the misery of low paying work and how impossible it is to live decently at minimum wages. There's a breeziness to the book that is often very funny (her anger at the smug and wealthy houseowners she cleans for in maine is hilarious), but sometimes the breathless prose seems to go by so quickly that the book doesn't take enough time to stop and breathe and make its important points.	2001-10-03
US	50684595	R2A00HMKCTYV7H	0940322803	963436595	Eustace and Hilda: A Trilogy (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	3	10	10	N	N	A deeply flawed, deeply interesting work	Anita Brookner refers to this trilogy in her introduction to the NYRB edition as &quot;a masterpiece,&quot; and it is quite clear from reading it that L.P. Hartley intended this as his artist's summa. The works are not as well known, however, as Hartley's THE GO-BETWEEN, and I think there is a reason for that: although the acccomplishments of the EUSTACE AND HILDA trilogy are genuine, it is not as polished a work as THE GO-BETWEEN. The principle problem with the trilogy is that almost all of the characters (including Hilda) exist only as they are perceived by the timid, pleasure-loving, and deeply narcissistic Eustace: thus they do not wholly &quot;live&quot; for us, and though Eustace himself seems quite real, he is so very sensitive that (to paraphrase Christopher Durang) you'd like to hit him. Eustace's fascination with the wealthy and with luxury inevitably bring to mind Marcel Proust, who clearly seems a model for Hartley's trilogy. The trilogy also seems modelled on Galsworthy and Meredith, however, and at times it makes for a very strange melange. It does have some fantastic set pieces, however, including Hilda's trip in the airplane with Dick Staveley and her later breakdown and its aftermath.	2001-09-18
US	50684595	R3U5GQRLLJN4HO	0452270642	711691613	A Dark-Adapted Eye (Plume)	Books	4	18	21	N	N	A marvelous mystery	This is one of the most sophisticated mysteries in years, and intitated a whole series of superior psychological novels from Ruth Rendell under the nom de plume Barbara Vine. The work begins with the sensational headline-grabbing state hanging of Vera Hillyard; the rest of the work is preoccupied with why she was executed and whom she murdered. Although Vera's victim becomes apparent earlier than halfway through the book, the whys of murder are much more intriguing: indeed, the novel purposefully begins with a knotted web of familial Hillyard relations for the reader to enjoy sorting through until it all makes sense. <br />The tale Vine has to relate is a complex one, extraordinarily deftly told: one has only to see the well-meant expensive botch made of it on British television to see how extraordinarily subtle Vine's art is here. The sense of wartime and postwar atmosphere is marvelously evoked, and the particular attention given here to WWII makeup and glamor (a favorite preoccupation of Barbara Vine's) is an especially intriguing and enjoyable detail.	2001-09-10
US	50684595	R257BM3X4ZJG95	0393091716	634244617	The Egoist (A Norton Critical Edition)	Books	5	46	47	N	N	One of the finest novels of the Victorian century	Meredith's masterpiece is woefully underread, and it is a sad truth that the Norton scholarly edition is the only edition of THE EGOIST now in print. This is not an easy read, however: Meredith's caustic dialogue foreshadows henry James's in its mastery of ambiguities, and his witty paradoxes surpass even Oscar Wilde (who admitted his debt to Meredith). The plot is a simple one: the wealthy handsome and titled Sir Willoughby Patterne, having been jilted by one fiance, proposes to another young woman, the  intelligent and intensely likeable Clara Middleton, who accepts him; before very long, Clara has realized what a monstrous egoist Sir Willoughby is, but not after it seems too late for her to go back on her word. This is one of the most brilliant studies of mortification ever accomplished, and what makes it all the more amazing is that Meredith clearly modelled Sir Willoughby in part on himself and the extraordinarily sympathetic Clara on his wife, Mary Ellen Peacock, who deserted Meredith for another man. This book is funny, thought-provoking, and exceptionally poignant: there are moments when you read it that your heart will go into your stomach as you sympathize with Clara's appalling plight.	2001-09-03
US	50684595	R1MC1XYIYVSCF1	094032279X	573932866	A Way of Life, Like Any Other (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	4	27	28	N	N	A fine portrait of the artist as a young man	Darcey O'Brien's fine Bildungsroman is a very funny and lethal depiction of a golden Hollywood childhood which begins to tarnish as his parents' careers do. The narrator's parents--a histrionic former screen beauty obsessed with sex and a former Western star of amiable disposition but sometimes hidden motives--unconsciously (and even sometimes consciously) wreak all kinds of havoic in their son's life, but as he gets older the son begins to fight back in covert ways. This was exactly the kind of book that the NYRB series was created to revive: a funny and poignant novel of sterling quality that somehow slipped through the cracks of readers' attention years ago and deserves a new chance.	2001-08-27
US	50684595	R11IIH560EZI1H	086068878X	621556145	The Corner That Held Them (Virago Modern Classics)	Books	5	27	28	N	Y	Sylvia Townsend Warner's masterpiece	Townsend Warner started this novel with the intention of producing a Marxist-Leninist account of how a community of women made their living in the medieval period. That probably sounds deadly dull, but the book itself is anything but: indeed, it remains one of the most page-turning novels I've read in years. Detailing the lives of a convent through eighty years in the Middle Ages, THE CORNER THAT HELD THEM defies any simple explanation of its plot: nuns come and they leave; mothers superior  replace their predecessors and then make new plans for the community (which often come to fruition and often don't); people affiliated with the community are born and then later die. Yet despite its apparent random nature, this remains one of the most engrossing books I can imagine: from its beginnings in disastrous marital infidelity to its unforgettable conclusion of desperate betrayal, it has all the fascination of real lived experience.	2001-08-27
US	50684595	R1N5MMROU2SUIY	0940322110	372109451	My Dog Tulip (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	4	14	18	N	N	A dark and compelling study of what it means to be &quot;animal&quot;	The mistake that's always made with this book is to see it (or worse, market it) as a cute little study of dog love--a kind of non-fiction equivalent, say, to LASSIE COME HOME. Ackerley's MY DOG TULIP is much better than that, and it's about as far from cute as you might imagine. Tulip does not emerge as very lovable at all: she barks and rushes and she makes messes and she seems to be constantly in heat. Ackerley's narrator, however, loves her no less for all this, and indeed seems wedded to her not only in spite of but because of her distressing physicality. The point this study is making is that to be an animal--like Tulip, or like her master--is to have a very unloveable body that needs to defecate and mate and bump into things. As we read further, we notice how the narrator's manners are not only at odds with these aspects of Tulip, but also with his own less-lovable traits: his jealousy, his snobbishness, his sense of entitlement. This is, in the end, largely a study of manners--and what manners must conceal in both dogs AND humans. If you take it as its meant, this is a very compelling little book.	2001-06-12
US	50684595	R3BJ4JSN1WMCN2	039331894X	572503863	Desperate Characters: A Novel (Norton Paperback Fiction)	Books	3	32	40	N	N	Good, but with certain limitations	I'm a bit surprised by the ecstatic reviews of this book listed below: while I think this is a very intelligent and well-crafted novella, it's not as category-defying as others might imply. Indeed, Fox writes very much in a kind of style that often is termed &quot;NEW YORKER fiction,&quot; because it reads quite a bit like the many other stories of New York anomie that have come from that magazine in the Sixties, Seventies, Eighties and Nineties: there's lots of descriptions of small observations, the characters are unhappy but have trouble articulating this, random acts of violence in their carefully-ordered lives echo the disruptions of the wider world outside, etc. Indeed, to some extent Fox's work was very influential for a lot of fiction--good and bad--that followed in its wake.	2001-05-19
US	50684595	R2700MTXYABESZ	0375412557	257610007	Death in Holy Orders (Adam Dalgliesh Mystery Series #11)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Back to the top of her form	In the last twenty years or so, P. D. James's famed mystery novels have been less enjoyable than they were in previous decades: her characters seemed at times so misanthropic and snobbish as to be almost intolerable (as in A TASTE FOR DEATH), and her murderers often get away at the end scot-free (as in A CERTAIN JUSTICE and THE SKULL BENEATH THE SKIN), as if to endorse a somewhat dark--even Jacobean--vision of human existence.<br />I'm happy to say that her latest effort, DEATH IN HOLY ORDERS, is a return to the top of her form. The setting, an isolated Anglican college on the East Anglian coast, seems very reminiscent of one of James's very best Dagliesh mysteries, THE BLACK TOWER, but otherwise the story is very much original, although it does dip (though not too indulgently) into some of the interests James has shown in almost all her novels, such as Victorian architecture, family hatreds, and art history. The community is an interesting one, the central murder is properly horrifying and dramatic, and best of all she allows her central detectives (Kate, Piers, and especially Dagliesh) more space to grow than they have in years. This Dagliesh mystery can stand with James's very best, including THE BLACK TOWER and A MIND TO MURDER.	2001-05-12
US	50684595	RZUN1GHYXQCHQ	0306810085	3917971	The Queen's Throat: Opera, Homosexuality, and the Mystery of Desire	Books	2	36	44	N	N	Tediously whimsical	There's no denying that Wayne Koestenbaum is a very smart man, but that still doesn't make THE QUEEN'S THROAT very worthwhile. The narratorial persona he adopts (which he's stuck to ever since the book was published ten years ago) is of a slight hysterical, over-the-top aesthete who takes to impossibly grandiose and silly declamations (such as when he pretends to dream he is Thas: &quot;Wayne, Thas must have pearls!&quot;). The book really belongs to that peculiar moment in academia when writers could claim whatever trivial thing they did in daily life was politically important, with regard to identity politics, simply because they claimed it to be &quot;subversive&quot;; if you give even two seconds worth of thought to the strictures and actual repressive measures gay men and women must face on a daily basis all over the world, you'll see how trivial Koestenbaum's claims that his trivialities are politically important really are.<br />There is some fun to be had in the reading of this work, but the narrator's giddy narcissism does get very wearisome after a while. This new edition comes with a new and especially pompous preface from Tony Kushner.	2001-04-27
US	50684595	R3EFHFA6FX5L1N	0940322633	836780513	Manservant and Maidservant (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	4	23	25	N	Y	A one-of-a-kind author	No one writes novels quite like Ivy Compton-Burnett: they're really more like novelized plays than anything else, and as Diane Johnson notes in her extremely intelligent foreword to this edition, Compton-Burnett's antecedents are more with Oscar Wilde than anyone else, in her love of savage epigrams and wordplay. her novels are almost impossibly stylized: almost all her characters speak in the same style, so small children and uneducated coooks speak with the same level of sophistication as wealthy educated homeowners. Still, for all of its artificiality, you'd be hardpressed to beat MANSERVANT AND MAIDSERVANT as a superior exercise in style. Compton-Burnett's witty and troubling vision of the effect of a wicked Victorian paterfamilias's repentance is exceptionally striking and thought-provoking, and though this novel is not quite up to the level of A HOUSE AND ITS HEAD (also recently reissued by NYRB Press in a stunning paperback edition), it is one of her best works nonetheless.	2001-04-25
US	50684595	RRA49WZJ5W4YP	0786706392	550514772	Will This Do?	Books	3	12	13	N	N	This will do	There's something almost irresistible about the memoirs of a child of Evelyn Waugh, and there's much pleasure to be had in the first half of the autobiography. Auberon Waugh's dealings with his splenetic, conservative father--among the posh country houses of his family and their relatives--makes the stuff of a fine story, and Waugh brings great ironic humor to the table. Unfortunately, Auberon's own literary career is much less interesting, and concerns mainly petty squabbles and encounters with figures who are only of passing interest today: it's hard to get very worked up one way or the other, for instance, about Claire Tomalin's libel suit against him.<br />Waugh's humor (like his father's) is not to everyone's tastes, but if you find his snobbish summaries and appreciations for the bizarre droll (as I do), you'll enjoy yourself very much. He is very much aware of his snobbism, as well as his father's, and his self-deprecating awareness of both men's failing is greatly appreciated, and makes the entire matter much easier to take.	2001-04-23
US	50684595	R3RH2LGXLCHKF1	0940322617	621082674	The Quest for Corvo: An Experiment in Biography (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	4	8	11	N	Y	A thoughtful modernist meditation on biography	In recent years we've been treated to many thoughtful and highly readable studies on the nature of biography itself, such as in Richard Holmes's FOOTSTEPS and Janet Malcolm's THE SILENT WOMAN. Symons's THE QUEST FOR CORVO could almost be a sketch for these later, deeper studies in its very metatextual approach to what it means to compose a biography of Frederick Rolfe, one of the strangest figures in fin-de-siecle British letters. Although later biographies took this work to task for its errors and omissions, that shouldn't dissuade you from enjoying how Symons juxtaposes differing perspectives on the quarrelsome and paranoid Rolfe's actions and behaviors, and his desire to get at the &quot;real man.&quot; Greater drawbacks, I think, might be Symons's homophobia--which, while very common for its time, seems a bit hysterical today--and the fact that Rolfe (or &quot;Baron Corvo,&quot; as he liked to style himself) as a person either enchants readers completely or eventually becomes as tiresome to them as he did to his contemporaries. Still, even though Rolfe's antics do grate on some people's nerves a bit after a while(as they did mine), the fascination of his personality remains quite compelling.<br />This edition features a beautiful cover and paper stock (as do all NYRB editions) and an intelligent and thoughtful introduction (which, unfortunately, they do not always).	2001-04-18
US	50684595	R10L7Y5UG8XN4V	094032265X	353716317	Madame de Pompadour (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	4	8	10	N	Y	A biography as endlessly charming as its subject	NYRB has done it again, in bringing forth a new edition of an early twentieth-century gem that needed to be reissued. Nancy Mitford's biography of Madame de Pompadour shimmers and sparkles with exquisite prose and a thorough handling of the facts; I couldn't put this down until I had read right through it from beginning to end. Mitford's style is very fluid and sophisticated: she can describe the endless diplomatic minutiae of the wrnagings during the Seven Years' War as impressively as she can detail the beautiful interiors of the Marquise's houses. Clearly she has mastered the style of Tacitean biography-as-history championed by Lytton Strachey decades earlier, although this fact seems lost on the writer of the edition's introduction, Amanda Foreman, who seems to be of the inaccurate conviction that Mitford was doing something entirely new. Indeed, the uninformedness of Foreman's preface and the edition's unfortunate lack of the illustrations that graced early versions of this biography are all that keep me from granting this a full five stars; it is nevertheless highly worth your while.	2001-04-14
US	50684595	R2ZERK5OCMCAS	0141180692	235751491	Gentlemen Prefer Blondes -and- But Gentlemen Marry Brunettes: The Illuminating Diary of a Professional Lady	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Forget Carol Channing and Marilyn Monroe: go to the source	It's impossible to hear this title without thinking of the stage musical with Channing or the later film version of it with Monroe. But Loos's novel is one of the funniest books of the twentieth century, and was beloved by everyone from James Joyce to Santayana. It's all told from Lorelei Lee's diary as she conquers New York, London, Paris, and (hardest of all) the Philadelphia Main Line, entirely by dint of her charm and comeliness. Lorelei is no fool, and exploits the desires of the old men who meet her to get all the jewels and orchids she can dream of, but nonetheless she remains very much an innocent--which is the greatest wellspring of the book's appeal. And her cynical friend Dorothy's sidecomments (which Lorelei frequently quotes) are absolutely hilarious.	2001-04-11
US	50684595	R3P3Z0M6BL4S1C	0679731806	19728425	The Professor's House (Vintage Classics)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A deceptively simple prose style covering great depths	Cather's A PROFESSOR'S HOUSE is very different from the spirit-of-the-prairie book she's often so immediately associated with. Like O PIONEERS! and MY ANTONIA, however, this novel exhibits cather's great fascination with the American landscape, and with he posiibility of dreams left both fulfilled and unfulfilled. The experiences of Tom Outland in the Cliff City have made this book a recent favorite with Americanist scholars, but no less compelling is her portrait of a suddenly wealthy Midwestern academic family in the Twenties whose recent good fortune has begun to tear them apart despite their general good will and kind tempers.	2001-04-08
US	50684595	R3KLJPINF6D4O7	006098435X	97069317	Dickens' Fur Coat and Charlotte's Unanswered Letters: The Rows and Romances of England's Great Victorian Novelists	Books	4	13	14	N	N	A mistitled but informative and fun cultural study	Let's get this straight right off the bat: Daniel Pool's book is purposefully mistitled to make you think that it would be a sequel of sorts to his extremely useful and popular compendium of facts important to Victorian fiction WHAT CHARLES DICKENS ATE AND JANE AUSTEN KNEW. This book is very different: it reads like a straightforward narrative, and it's an enjoyable, gossipy, and onformative account of the demands of the publishing market in the mid-Victorian world of the novel, and how it created the careers of Dickens, the Bronts, Trollope, Thackeray, George Eliot, etc. The mistitling (undoubtedly to make the book sell better) is thus quite appropriate, in that the novel helpfully etails the ways in which publishing conventions of the time (the rise of Mudie's lending library, the convention of the three-decker) made and shaped literary careers.	2001-04-01
US	50684595	R3KXE9WESJOGD3	0940322625	687218363	Hadrian the Seventh (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	4	13	16	N	Y	The literary equivalent of outsider art	There's no denying that Frederic Rolfe--the self-styled Baron Corvo--created something truly one-of-a-kind in memorable with HADRAIN THE SEVENTH, his fantastic account of an embittered marginalized crank being called upon to serve as the first English pope in centuries. In many ways, the bizarrity of this fantasy, and its undeniable stylistic maturity and complexity, make it something akin to &quot;outsider art,&quot; the products of painters, fabricworkers and sculptors whose artworks seem a product of insanity or neurosis. The problem with Rolfe's book, however, is that as fascinating as it is intitally the novelty quickly wears off, and then you're left with chapter upon chapter left of Pope Hadrian flouncing through the Vatican making sweeping edicts and then exploring their ramifications upon Jesuitical belief--hardly the stuff of hours of reading delight.	2001-03-24
US	50684595	R254UC6DYZR4EI	1582430152	772203017	Heat and Dust	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Good, but not of the first rank	HEAT AND DUST is Jhabvala's most famous novel, but it's never really made it into the bigtime of novels concerning Anglo-Indian relations. Although sensitively and intelligently written, the novel's biggest problem is that the two major female characters aren't fully fleshed out: there seems to be much less to interest us regarding the narrator (who is almost a total cypher) and Olivia than there is regarding the Nawab and Chid. Still, the evocations of India both in the Seventies and the Twenties are quite marvelous. All in all, I'd say this is a well-written novel, but not quite up to the level of such other works which take on a similar theme as Paul Scott's THE JEWEL IN THE CROWN or Rumer Godden's THE PEACOCK SPRING.	2001-03-15
US	50684595	R18SEEALYQ1SZ4	0940322684	742684340	The Haunted Looking Glass (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	4	41	42	N	Y	A well-chosen collection of great ghost stories	The trouble with most ghost stories is that they're never sufficiently scary enough: even many of the stories of such masters of the genre as M. R. James and Sheridan le Fanu seem insufficiently frightening, often given the limited frame of the short story. Years before his recent death, the great illustrator Edward Gorey assembled a best-of-the-best collection of the most frightening of all ghost stories (accompanied by his personal illustrations), and his choices do not disappoint. Many of the stories have the sickening, terrifying quality of a bad dream (such as Stoker's &quot;The Judge's House&quot; and E. Nesbit's &quot;Mansize in marble&quot;), while even the shorter pieces which have little in the way of characterization (such as &quot;The Empty House&quot;) are genuinely frightening and evocative in terms of atmosphere. The very best stories--&quot;The Monkey's Paw,&quot; James's &quot;Casting the Runes,&quot; and Dickens's &quot;The Signalman&quot;--are little masterpieces of suspense and mood.<br />NYRB wisely decided to break from its standard cover format by allowing Gorey's original handlettered illustration remain intact; his moody drawings for each story are also kept. This is a nice little collection.	2001-03-15
US	50684595	R15L1H2MA2Q77Z	0940322641	818410344	A House and Its Head (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	5	76	80	N	Y	Another gem from the NYRB Press	I'm beginning to become addicted to these little neglected treasures that the NYRB Press is reissuing. Not only are the editions themselves little marvels (with beautiful and well-chosen color covers and gorgeous paper stock), but whoever is making the choices for which books are reissued has near-infallible taste.<br />A HOUSE AND ITS HEAD, like so many of Ivy Compton-Burnett's novels, reads something like a modern updating of a Greek tragedy: most of the novel is told through dialogue, there is a kind of chorus that comments on the action of the principal characters, and the plot involves murder, incest, and familial cruelty. Yet for all these borrowings Compton-Burnett paradoxically remains wonderfully sui generis: no one else has ever mastered her capability for evoking such extreme subtlety in manners that the merest cruel nuances can become evoked (if one reads carefully enough). She is also a master plotter: just when you think you've caught up with the characters' schemes, she allows the other characters in the novel to make similar realizations, and then jumps even further ahead. This is a real page-turner as well as a subtle commentary on Edwardian manners and moral monstrousness.	2001-02-20
US	50684595	R29VC87JKLBPND	0140157654	273591516	Before Night Falls: A Memoir	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Dazzling and disappointing simultaneously	Early in his memoir Arenas tells the story of reciting a story for a local library competition. Arenas writes of the judges, &quot;They were impressed, not by my skill in telling the story but by the story itself.&quot; To some extent, that stands as a pretty fair assessment of my own reaction to BEFORE NIGHT FALLS. The story of Arenas's life is remarkably astonishing: born into abject poverty, he experienced the tremendous horrors of life in castro's Cuba as a dissident writer, was enslaved by the state in order to work in sugar plantations, jailed for his writings and sexual behavior, and then managed to escape to the USA as a Marielito where he remained in relative poverty and was ultimately struck down by AIDS. <br />While the story itself is absolutely spellbinding, the telling of it is not. Arenas's persona comes across at times as spectacularly grandiose, and the litany of the prizes he won for his writing (or of those he lost only because of the judges' political biases) gets a bit wearisome. So too does his recounting of his erotic adventures, which are often quite funny but become so prodigious and repetitive they eventually become tedious. And his insights into sexual mores and political realities seem very blinkered and Manichaean: there's very little nuance to be had in Arenas's vision of the world.<br />Nevertheless, I would recommend this book just for the glimpse it offers of an operatically intense life experienced under tremendous hardships and injustices.	2001-02-17
US	50684595	R2EZN0XAXBJZ5J	0940322560	287816021	The Pilgrim Hawk: A Love Story (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	4	31	36	N	Y	Crystalline beauty	Westcott's short novel has been for years something of a cult work among novelists for its structural perfection. The interlocking erotic and sympathetic triangles among the characters, and the novel's complex explosion of the meaning of the eponymous peregrine (which is pushed as far as symbolic meanings go to the level of either Hawthorne's scarlet letter or James's golden bowl) is absolutely dazzling, and shows the tremednous talent within Westcott that never received its full due. However, the novel does remain somewhat chilly: it's hard to warm to any of the major characters, whose purposeful shallowness can seem somewhat off-putting.	2001-02-14
US	50684595	R11JQGMGD6PXO	0192839594	89059248	The History of Pendennis : His Fortunes and Misfortunes His Friends and His Greatest Enemy (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Fun and quite readable	Most people know of only one book by Thackeray: his witty and savage masterpiece VANITY FAIR. PENDENNIS, perhaps his second-best book, is certainly no slouch itself: a funny, rollicking Bildungsroman, PENDENNIS chronicles the adventures of a loveable young man who almost always manages to get himself into trouble, and his tribulations with the several attractive women in his life (including his young mother). There are some definite slow patches to the work, but for the most part it moves almnost at a rip-roaring pace, and it has none of the overseriousness that mars Thackeray's later works (such as the fascinating, but slowpaced THE NEWCOMES). This is Victorian reading at its most pleasurable, if not its most intellectually challenging.	2001-02-10
US	50684595	RD7JOMN1EX0KM	0374524475	883499378	Aristocrats: Caroline, Emily, Louisa, and Sarah Lennox, 1740-1832	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Like a Gainsborough painting brought to life	Tillyard's book brings to life a composite portrait of four of the most glorious demimondaines of the eighteenth century, all four of whom led lives of incredible brilliance and sparkle. One of the sisters was the Duchess of Leinster; another married Fox; a third was the beloved of George III before he had to give way to politics and marry a German princess of much less beauty and vivacity. This book does a fine job brining to life the intricate world of the highest crust of Georgian aristocracy--it's a splendid follow-up for any who have enjoyed GEORGIANA, DUCHESS OF DEVONSHIRE.	2001-01-27
US	50684595	RNQDHPP6E02YS	0940322498	205721323	Alfred and Guinevere (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	4	16	16	N	Y	A funny, minor treasure	Schuyler is best remembered (with Kenneth Koch, John Ashberry, and Frank O'Hara) as one of the &quot;New York&quot; school of poets. This slim little novel, however, shows that his talents in prose have been underappreciated. ALFRED AND GUINEVERE is a hilarious little story--told entirely through dialogue, letters, and Guinevere's diary--of two very precocious children sent to live in the country with their uncle and grandmother for reasons initially unclear to them. Their attempts to piece together the larger adult world (which may comprise adultery, death, disappointment, and loneliness) are very funny and poignant, and though Alfred and Guienevere often get on each others' nerves their mutual devotion still rings quite true. This is a fast read, and its high quality may still not justify the exorbitant cover price. (NYRB has been charging too much for its editions, which are beautiful and spectacularly chosen, but often run to novella-length rather than to full novel-length). But I was glad I had bought--and read--this little-known jewel.	2001-01-25
US	50684595	R2WFMFRHUVL16B	014005667X	10328717	A Nervous Splendor: Vienna 1888-1889	Books	4	28	28	N	N	Fun, gossipy cultural history	This is an extremely readable and enjoyable account of one of the most portentous years in Austrian history: its central story concerns the murder/suicide of the Crown Prince Rudolf and Mary Vetsera at the prince's Mayerling hunting lodge, while orbiting around this are mini-narratives concerning Freud, Klimt, Herzl, Schnitzler, Bruckner, etc. <br />This is highly recommended for people who have enjoyed similar works such as Roger Shattuck's THE BANQUET YEARS. While Morton's narrative genuinely suffers from the perfect 20/20 hindsight take on history (not only, in his account, is the Empire doomed, but even the Emperor knows at the back of his mind that the Empire is doomed, which seems highly unlikely), and his overwillingness to tell us exactly what famous people were thinking at given moments (when there is no way he could know), the book is informative, exciting, and intelligent.	2001-01-22
US	50684595	R1WE6WJWCMQ22O	0670882305	938794795	James Joyce (Penguin Lives Series)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	A good short take on Joyce's life, but irritating at times	Since there's little else intelligent on Joyce's life other than Richard Ellmann's whoppingly big book, this slimmer volume is quite welcome. While Edna O'Brien's &quot;Joycean&quot; use of language here seems initially quite clever as a means for telling the story, it tends somewhat to obscure the meanings of what she's trying to say. The book also sometimes doesn't explain things as clearly as it might--if I weren't a familiar with Joyce's works and Ellmann's biography, I think I would've been greatly puzzled by some of what O'Brien conveys. Moreover, as readers below have noted, her tendentious assumption that the novels (particularly PORTRAIT OF THE ARTIST) are transparently and exactly autobiographical is a real mistake.	2001-01-22
US	50684595	R3NA60HRI6G8M2	087113800X	623008639	India: A History	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A good introductory overview of the nation and its history	Keay has received a fair amount of flak already for his discussion of the Aryan invasion theory which has been vehemently discredited by contemporary Indian historians. But the book is still a very readable, very enjoyable overview of Indian history, and should serve as a fine study for the beginning scholar. His prose is intelligent and shows its biases quite fairly and with some real flair, and he is often witty and incisive.	2001-01-11
US	50684595	R2CWWQFEDBVUD7	0156001314	444581246	The Name of the Rose: including the Author's Postscript	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Tremendous: an erudite page-turner	I'd been putting off reading this for years, and when I finally started it, I kept berating myself for having missed it for so long. I couldn't put it down, given the many mysteries at work in the text and the engaging description of monastic medieval life--the latter wasn't something in which I had been particularly interested in before reading this novel, but nonetheless I found the beautiful level of detail absorbing. The various monks stood out as very real and defined charcters, and the historical background material (while initially extremely complex and offputting) became more engaging as I went.<br />Some of the bites Eco didn't quite manage to chew in this were the long, medievalesque catalogues, which he explained in his postscript he felt were essential to capture the flavor of the period but seemed neither particularly well done nor very interesting. To quote Sally from PEANUTS, though, I just bleeped right over them, and all was well. I highly recommend this novel for fans of historical fiction.	2001-01-02
US	50684595	R7J7XYGI2RNI2	0804461171	16929426	A. B. C.	Books	4	11	11	N	N	One of the funniest books I can imagine	Here are Marlene Dietrich's thoughts.  All of them. And in no particular order other than alphabetical. <br />You won't wonder for one second whether or not she had a ghostwriter, because what ghostwriter could ever have dreamed up something as bizarre as this collection of non sequiturs? Her thoughts range not only from &quot;Astaire, Fred&quot; (&quot;Elegant! Elegant! Elegant!&quot;) to &quot;Zabaglione&quot; (one of the many, MANY recipes she provides which consists--like most of her recipes--of sugar, egg yolks, and cream, in varying proportions) but also her thoughts on the Beatles, preparing meat, and other topics of mindboggling importance.<br />After reading this book, you'll never again be able to look at eggs without thinking of La Dietrich's mysterious comment about them: &quot;I love them! I eat them!&quot;	2000-12-24
US	50684595	R2XC4ORGSEGT8C	0940322196	581039903	The Horse's Mouth (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A true original	It's often been said that Cary's novel is the best ever written about a painter and the process he goes through in creating his art. The genius of the novel is that Gulley Jimson is such an unlikable character, given to violent fits of temper, all the while he is possessed of genuine genius and immense talent. The book is hilariously funny, but Jimson's misdeeds dangerously increase as the novel continues to the point where the reader starts wondering why he or she is laughing anymore, and begins to see the troubling ethical questions the novel poses about the relation of genius to morality.	2000-12-08
US	50684595	R27GEIEKHDR4R8	0785107576	705344768	Daredevil Visionaries - Frank Miller, Vol. 1	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A must-have for any serious comics fan	Miller's run on DAREDEVIL absolutely revolutionized the superhero comics medium: he initiated a whole series of darker, grittier stories that came eventually to dominate the medium in the late Eighties and early Nineties. But a look at his run on the series will tell you instantly why he was so influential: for a while, this was the most intelligent and sophisticated series being published by a major comics company.<br />This first volume shows his initial work on the series, when he was pencilling (and then co-scripting) with Roger McKenzie as writer: this is not yet when the series hit its full height, with the series of stories involving the Kingpin and Elektra (that will be published in volume 2, presumably). This earlier stuff is absolutely fascinating for Miller's beginning ventures into what would become the hallmarks of his run on the title: the grim and violent storylines, the sophisticated depiction of a man's obsessions and his tortured emotional attachments to women (such as the Black Widow and Heather Glenn), and the absolutely beautiful expressionistic compositions. By the later stories in this volume--particularly the gorgeous pencisl for the Gladiator story--you'll see Miller at the peak of his pencilling maturity. This edition is printed on gorgeous paper stock, and is a great bargain. Highly, highly recommended.	2000-12-07
US	50684595	R7M6UC5QPWZZU	0743410513	605962018	The Unburied	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A superior echo of the 1860s sensation novel	Palliser has been described as &quot;the best Victorian writer working today,&quot; but that wans't really true until the publication of THE UNBURIED. His previous major foray into Victorian fiction, THE QUINCUNX, was all virtuoso plot twists and sudden character reversals with no one to care about and an unbelievable Jamesian ending of renunciation.But, in the ten years intervening between that novel and THE UNBURIED, Palliser seems to have learned a great deal. His newest novel is much briefer and much more engaging. It does require from its readers a great deal of prior knowledge regarding the seventeenth-century English civil wars and the hierarchy of the Anglican church, but it's still a great read, with a terrific sense of physical atmosphere and interesting characters. Some of the plot twists are telegraphed a little too clearly ahead of time, but for the most part this adds to0 the book's enjoyment rather than detracts from it.	2000-11-19
US	50684595	R3TX0BZV3M6ZB	0679751408	616050290	The Silent Woman: Sylvia Plath and Ted Hughes	Books	5	20	24	N	N	Malcolm's masterpiece	Malcolm's characteristic interest, in all her books, is to examine the many sides in a typically academic battle regarding truth and viewpoint and show how the many people involved in the battle often shoot themselves in their feet by making self-servicing claims in their own defenses. Naturally, few things work better for this condition than the problematic of biography, and in the case of Sylvia Plath Malcolm found a humdinger of a topic.<br />Most literate readers know about the basic facts of Plath's life--the marriage to Ted Hughes, his philandering and subsequent abandonment of her, and her suicide in 1963. On these basic signposts various biographers (and, more crucially, Plath's friends, family, and enemies during her lifetime) have hung all sorts of interpretations, to the point where a college classmate of Malcolm's, Anne Stevenson, agreed to write an unsymathetic account of Plath's life on behalf of Hughes and his sister Olwyn--and wound up devastating her own literary career by pleasing neither the Hugheses nor Plath's advocates.<br />This is one of the most thoughtful studies of biography and its problems ever written, and shows the horrible things people can do to one another in the name of trying to &quot;set the story straight.&quot;	2000-11-17
US	50684595	R2PFUEPT25ISUV	0940322463	624697017	Classic Crimes (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	4	30	31	N	N	Great tales in an unsatisfactory edition	William Roughead's accounts of great crimes from eighteenth- and nineteenth-century Scotland and England are about the most delicious mind candy I can think of; I opened this new edition from NYRB and almost couldn't put it down. While his vocabulary and style at times go a bit overboard in terms of their purpleness, he still presents very readable and exciting accounts of some incredible crimes which still haunt the popular imagination today (such as his account of the West  Port murders of Burke and Hare, the body snatchers).<br />Re-issuing Roughead's work is really a feather in NYRB's cap, and yet I can't help wishing they had taken more pains with this edition. (Because of this, I felt I could not really offer it the five stars it otherwise would've deserved.) The introduction by Luc Sante is interesting, but not without errors: he notes that all of the crimes excepting those of Burke and Hare &quot;are discoveries [on the part of Roughead]&quot;; yet Roughead himself admits that Deacon Brodie's case has been dramatized many times, and inspired Stevenson's &quot;Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde.&quot; Madeleine Smith's trial inspired a film, &quot;Madeleine,&quot; directed by David Lean in the 1950s. Similarly, no editor seems to have taken the time to annotate some of Roughead's more bizarre (or anachronistic, or peculiarly Scottish) terms: &quot;douce&quot; is used repeatedly for &quot;sweet&quot;, and &quot;lands&quot; (apparently a term for the highrise towers in Edinburgh) recurs often too, yet there's nary a word of explanation. This lack of editorial interference is not welcome, especially since Roughead often refers repeatedly to other writings of his which his original audience would have recognized but which remain obscure to a contemporary reader.<br />Still, this book is a real treasure--and, as with all NYRB books, it comes on beautiful paper and with a gorgeous cover.	2000-11-15
US	50684595	R1KOFK73PL0VP7	0345413350	994627826	The Golden Compass (His Dark Materials, Book 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	One of the best fantasy books in decades	This is a book I've recommended to just about everyone I've come across recently: it's one of the most absorbing reads I've had in years. Pullman creates a world very much like our own but still very different, and its details are absolutely fascinating. Every human being has a daemon--a materialization of his or her spirit in animal form--, and the entire world is governed by a Popeless Catholic church; an enormous conspiracy forces the work's heroine, Lyra, to venture to the frozen North, where she encounters tremendous wonders and stupefying dangers. Although Pullman wasn't able to bring off the following books in his trilogy to the same degree of satisfaction, THE GOLDEN COMPASS reamins an absolutely fantastic read, with thrilling detail and breathtaking ambition.	2000-11-06
US	50684595	RA4YTY8PGNQO9	0192834436	463707544	Vanity Fair: A Novel without a Hero (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One of the best of all English novels	This is the novel I always go back to when I want to recapture that great &quot;Primal Read.&quot; It's almsot impossible to put Thackeray's masterpiece down: its depiction of the corrupt world of the Prince Regent seems to leap off the page and acquire its own reality, so that for days after I first read this I seemed to be living in Thackeray's universe rather than late twentieth-century America. Its genius is not only in its humor (which is considerable--episodes like Becky Sharp's impression of the Countess of Southdown are almost unforgettably funny) but in its rounded depiction of characters who seem to have lives of their own outside of the book itself. No character, no matter how trivial, does not get his or her own moment, and just when you've written off one of them as two-dimensional Thackeray suddenly makes you aware of that character's ability to suffer in an acutely human way. Thackeray never wrote anything better, but nor did perhaps any other Victorian novelist.	2000-11-05
US	50684595	R1AVKX3WGE5T0S	0385720254	554144865	The Unabridged Journals of Sylvia Plath	Books	5	87	92	N	N	At last, the full deal	When Plath's journals were first released fifteen years ago in highly abridged form (thanks to the cuttings of her husband, Ted Hughes), the ellisions seemed as tantalizing as what remained. It has long been recognized that Plath was one of the most articulate minds of her generation, and her life story (in particular, her first breakdown in college, and then her courtship and later break-up with Hughes) has been the source of fascination among scholars and the general public for decades.    Hughes's death made possible the restoration of many of the lost passages concerning him--and Plath's other portraits of friends and her mother--for the first time. Clearly she emerges as a ruthless observer of the human condition, and a fantastic wordsmith: her description of something as mundane and disgusting as picking her nose becomes something of a revelation through her linguistic gifts. She also emerges as something of a monster: although it does much to excuse her spiteful caricatures of her acquaintances--and her almost Euripidean fury towards her poor mother--by remembering that the journals served as cathartic self-therapy, still the venom within them remains deeply disturbing.    The greatest handicap of this edition is its strange chronological sequencing: Kukil often positions appendices in very odd places, disrupting the narrative of the artist's life.	2000-11-05
US	50684595	R1PQMSMULJZLYH	094032217X	896188938	Herself Surprised (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	One of the most enjoyable novels of its period	Cary's Sara Monday has often been compared--quite rightly--to Moll Flanders, another irresistible, irrepressible woman of highly suspect morals. Sara's odd adventures in marriage and love make for a highly entertaining read, but you should also pay close attention to her observations of her society; for a woman of little apparent reflection, there's very little that seems to escape her notice. All three books in the Gulley Jimson triptych are remarkable, but this one has a special poignancy.	2000-11-05
US	50684595	RRCUJWYEI3L17	0940322269	946448969	We Think the World of You (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	4	14	15	N	Y	A little delight	It would be hard to make the case that WE THINK THE WORLD OF YOU is by any means a major work, but why should that lessen your fun? Ackerley's novel is very much a surprise in its relegation of its homoeroticism (dealt with very honestly and matter-of-factly) to the background; the protagonist's homosexuality is treated as simply a matter of course rather than as the center of concern, and what gets greater attention is his complicated relationship with his lover's family and dog.<br />The narrator himself is a terrific creation: sneaky, pompous, arrogant, and yet also somewhat likeable despite it all. And so too are the lover's parents and the dog herself--it all has the ring of reality about it. This is a minor delight, but a delight nonetheless.	2000-11-05
US	50684595	R1EMVPXWXY3V6F	0140147551	988777649	The Deptford Trilogy: Fifth Business; The Manticore; World of Wonders	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A rattling good read	Robertson Davies is, above all things, a raconteur, and the greatest pleasure of these three interconnected Bildungsromans is that each offers pure narrative pleasure as they each plow through the events in a different man's life, all of which are connected in some way or another with the miraculous and the fantastic. One of the larger concerns of the trilogy as a whole is made evident in the title of the first book, FIFTH BUSINESS: can people be said to 'star' in their own lives, or are they simply bit players in the lives of the more important? The three books go about answering this question in radically different ways, but each offers its own delights and its own enounter with the &quot;world of wonders&quot; existing at the edge of quotidian life. Along the way, the books also offer the scholarly pleasures that Robertson Davies novels always allow: you wind up *learning* more after reading his books about some arcane lore than you do through reading almost any other (nearly-)contemporary novelist.	2000-11-02
US	50684595	R3O1S0KPNIS8TD	0140436308	444298086	Miss Marjoribanks (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	43	44	N	Y	Funny and fetching	If you were to cross Jane Austen's Emma Woodhouse with E. F. Benson's Lucia, the result (psychologically as well as chronologically) would be Margaret Oliphant's triumphant queen of Carlingford society, Lucilla Marjoribanks. Determined to show everyone an entertaining time (ostensibly &quot;to be a comfort to dear Papa,&quot; even though her father tends to withdraw entirely from her noisy gatherings), the self-centered but always ingenious Lucilla engineers social triumph after social triumph in this very amusing mid-Victorian novel. There were many moments when I laughed out loud, or was genuinely surprised by Lucilla's cleverness in overcoming momentary catastrophes. This is the perfect book for anyone who has loved Austen, Trollope, or Elzabeth Gaskell's WIVES AND DAUGHTERS.	2000-11-01
US	50684595	RTJLPVMLR4NU1	067089270X	342087812	The Burning of Bridget Cleary	Books	2	20	24	N	N	A great story poorly serviced	The murder-by-torture of the cooper's wife Bridget Cleary at the hands of her husband and family members, who thought she was a fairy changeling, would seem to be almost entirely resistant to narratorial ineptitude. The 1895 incident in rural Tipperary seems to distill all of the fin-de-siecle British Empire's obsession with darkness and horror at the margins of its own civilization, and the story in and of itself should make a rattling good read. Angela Bourke, however, seems utterly incapable of telling a good story: there is little narrative logic to her recounting of events and background historical materials, and she repeatedly refuses to make transitions between the micro-history of Cleary's death and the surrounding wider issues of the day. As a result, the fascinating implications of the murder and its aftermath (with respect to gender, nationality, sex and even race) are often ineptly presented, and the story itself becomes dull and uninvolving.	2000-10-29
US	50684595	R1SANL8477RLX8	0395859972	852870338	The Blue Flower	Books	3	11	14	N	N	Admirable, but not really engaging	I'm addicted to historical novels, and had great hopes for this novel before I read it. I was a bit disappointed in the reading of it: while there's no question that Fitzgerald has done her research and is grappling with some weighty issues concerning Romanticism, desire, and the quotidian, THE BLUE FLOWER is hardly engaging or enthralling. It reads mostly like an intellectaul exercise (especially in that its language and syntax reads almost exactly as if it were translated from the German--as if this were Goethe rendered into English). While (for what it is) the book is quite well done, it wasn't what I was hoping for when I picked it up. It seems more like a writer's novel--that is, a novel for other writers to admire--than a book to really enjoy.	2000-10-03
US	50684595	R31CVMZOQZVEN	037570924X	236185551	An Equal Music: A Novel	Books	3	8	10	N	N	&quot;And then--years later--he saw her again!&quot;	That about sums up the basic plot to Seth's AN EQUAL MUSIC, and if it  sounds like the description of a Forties Ingrid Bergman movie, well, that's  right on the mark. Indeed, you might even follow that up with, &quot;But  she was carrying... A SECRET!&quot; The initial plotline of the novel is  almost hopelessly hokey, and unfortunately allows Seth to indulge in some  rather moony scenes of the hero wallowing in his disappointed love. You  should be warned that the hero and heroine eventually voyage (almost  inescapably) to romantic locales like Vienna and Venice where they can  swoon in the cities's glamor and romance while indulging in their guilty  relationship.<br />But Seth is much too smart to let this hold him back too  seriously. The story is actually more interesting than the M-G-M hokum  might allow you to suppose: there's quite a great deal of interesting  information about what it is like to work in a string quartet, how  musicians prepare to perform, how a fugue is structured, etc. Best of all,  Seth veers from the expected by the end of the novel as the narrator's  despair sends him towards madness, allowing for some of the most  unexpectedly adventurous writing Seth has ever set to paper. (Clearly, this  looks to be a transitional novel for Seth as he moves away from his more  crowd-pleasing mode of A SUITABLE BOY.)<br />Seth is a writer who is never  afraid to be charming, and he usually succeeds at this (although you should  be warned that he does fall into extreme preciousness at times,  particularly when disucssing the spell music casts upon him and his  characters--the concluding &quot;Author's Note&quot; is almost unreadable).  Although this novel isn't nearly as enjoyable or satisfying as A SUITABLE  BOY, it's evidence that Seth is at least trying new things, and perhaps  moving towards a more mature phase in his fiction writing.	2000-09-04
US	50684595	R154Y7Y2OHX2P5	0805062858	538222637	Headlong: A Novel	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Pleasant, funny, informative... but a tad overrated	Frayn's novel is yet another fictionalization of the pleasures of scholarship, resonating with the same sorts of delight which informed Byatt's POSSESSION, Barnes's FLAUBERT'S PARROT, Hollinghurst's THE FOLDING  STAR, Stoppard's play ARCADIA, and on and on and on. Perhaps this theme may  have been done to death in the last twenty years, but that didn't stop  Frayn from producing a very charming and informative novel about a man who  has discovered a painting which may or may not be an important undiscovered  Brueghel.<br />The best things the book has going for it are its wonderfully  inept and likeable hero (who is free of the tiresome sexual and  intellectual arrogance that far too often dogs similar protagonists of  similar works on this theme), and its real pleasure in delving to the  arcane details of Brueghel's political and cultural milieu. This is a  pleasant timekiller, but it is no great work: the plot is thin, the  denouement is unbelievable, and the wife is an extremely shadowy and  thinly-drawn character. Accept this novel for what it's worth, but no more.	2000-07-28
US	50684595	R250HFYLCM0DAL	0679766766	737084082	Jane Austen: A Life	Books	4	32	35	N	N	A great treat	Tomalin wrote this book in part as a response to those (like Austen's brother and cousin) who noted the great novelist's life was one of little incident. Despite her noble intentions, Tomalin doesn't prove anything to  the contrary--Austen's life was pretty routine, and we have so few  documents pertaining to the particulars of it (since her sister and niece  burned so many of her letters) that we have yet to find a biographer who  can shed great light on her inestimable genius.<br />Tomalin, however, gives  us a full and beautifully detailed analysis of what we CAN learn about  Austen's life from the documents which are still extant. Best of all, she  enriches this information by presenting rich, gossipy details about the  many fascinating people whom Austen knew and loved. The somewhat nouveau  riche society (pretending to be landed gentry) of late eighteenth-century  makes for reading almsot as much fun as Austen's own books, and Tomalin  writes with great verve. This is a marvelous read.	2000-07-28
US	50684595	R2BHD8E5A3VWH0	0385494246	654180128	Amsterdam: A Novel	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Very, very thin (in many senses of the term)	McEwan is a talented writer, but this work is a decidedly minor effort--and its winning the Booker is an utter puzzlement. It's a very plot-driven piece (though at less than 200 pages, with enormous font size,  it is more of a novella than a novel--and not worth the expensive price),  but the characters seem very thin indeed. It's hard to care much about a  morality tale when the characters are so thoroughly dislikable. With their  elite educations, glamorous occupations, clever bitchery, and  self-aggrandizing behavior, Clive and Vernon seem to have stepped out of a  P. D. James novel--unfortunately, there's no Inspector Dagliesh around to  provide any sort of moral compass (or real suspense).	2000-07-15
US	50684595	R2CU0QD9IWF6CB	0375400559	306656129	Original Story By: A Memoir of Broadway and Hollywood	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Pretty enjoyable	This is a very informative and enjoyable meoir by someone who worked on just about everything with just about everybody from the Forties to almost the present day. There's terrifically entertaining gossip and information  about working with Stephen Sondheim, Katherine Hepburn, Barbra Streisand,  Jerome Robbins, Angela Lansbury, and too may others to count. And the  book's sophisticated structure (avoiding a wholly linear chronology)  actually made it all the more intelligent.<br />Laurents clearly has a number  of scores to settle, particularly with Robbins and with Streisand and with  Gore Vidal (who comes across as a particularly hateful, snobbish man), but  Laurents' basic decency and intelligence helps the book avoid any real  abiding bitterness of tone. Perhaps, however, someone might've suggested to  him to abridge the many, many strangely impersonal references to his  longtime companion Tom Hatcher's great beauty and Oklahoma  wholesomeness--at times, it sounds as if Laurents were a horsebreeder  congratulating himself on purchasing a particularly fine Thoroughbred. But,  this was only a minor irritant.	2000-06-10
US	50684595	RZR4A49OLDFQA	0940322153	135715379	A High Wind in Jamaica	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Unforgettable	This is one of the most haunting books written in the twentieth century, and certainly one of the most unsentimental visions of childhood ever put down on paper. The children's choices emerge from the book with utter ruthless logic, and we feel we cannot blame them yet (impossibly) nor can we wholly forgive them for what they do. The prose is gorgeously fevered, and the descriptions of the earthquake and the hurricane seem like something from a dream at once beautiful and horrible. Not to be missed.	2000-03-08
US	50684595	R37FIN079HDFMY	0940322161	982696181	Lolly Willowes : Or the Loving Huntsman (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	5	39	47	N	N	An astonishing edition of an astonishing novel	These new little NYRB editions are just honeys--I have yet to read one that wasn't absolutely spectacular (the editors have superb taste), and the editions themselves are little gems--they FEEL so nice in your hands because they're made of gorgeous high quality paper and set in a lovely  font.<br />Warner's novel is fantastic--its rhythms are slow but musical, and  it takes quite a while to determine what awaits Laura in Great Mop. A very,  very funny book that also comments movingly on the condition of &quot;odd  women&quot; in the generation before Suffrage... I couldn't put this down!	2000-03-05
US	50684595	RHHJTSIR6QTH3	0851706517	404463152	The Birds (BFI Film Classics)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Paglia for people who usually don't like Paglia	I often think Camille Paglia is really dippy, but I just adored this book nonetheless. Her characteristic hyperbole works terrifically when talking about a movie she adores (who doesn't like to go off the deep end when discussing a favorite film?), and she keeps her pet rants about feminism and academia to a minimum. Her analysis of \\"The Birds\\" is often first-rate and engaging, and though she does go on in places about her insane Nietzschean paradigms even there she's very funny. Best of all, this book includes an insightful and intelligent interview with that most gifted and most neglected of Hitchcock's icy blondes, Tippi Hedren, which does much towards illuminating her famous performance in this film and also dispelling some of the myths promulgated by Donald Spoto. Highly recommended.	2000-02-06
