US	50681244	R16G86PUG2LFVQ	0786305274	889796282	Boom: Visions and Insights for Creating Wealth in the 21st Century	Books	5	14	15	N	N	EQUALS DRUCKER!!!	When it comes to business and management books, there is a typology that categorizes much of the writing in this genre into two: by thinkers who can't do and by doers who can't think! This underlines the fact that academic analysis, by itself and without practical relevance, achieves very little. Similarly, so-called practical recipes for success with a narrow focus and little real understanding of the underlying principles also leave much to be desired.<br />Therefore, when a book that makes an important contribution to the understanding of an increasingly competitive global economy such as BOOM makes the scene, it is to be welcomed as a breath of fresh air. Written by two authors with strong credentials who are themselves in the midst of building a multinational enterprise, this book speaks with a certain air of authority and credibility. Frank Vogl was born in London and educated at Leeds. A former Reuters reporter and European business correspondent of The Times, he moved to the USA to become US economics correspondent for The Times and then director of information and public affairs at the World Bank. He is now a director of Sutton Resources Ltd of Canada, of which James Sinclair is a fellow director and chairman. Sinclair is an authority on investment and financial markets and was formerly head of a leading Wall Street precious metals trading firm. His previous books include The Strategic Metals War and How to Make Money in Gold Currencies.<br />In Part One, BOOM and the New Industrial Revolution, authors Vogl and Sinclair forecast dramatic changes in the global economy, with an unprecedented era of growth providing extraordinary opportunities for business: hence the 'boom' scenario. The authors see this new era of economic growth unfolding in most of the countries of the world gathering momentum as we enter the 21st century. As a natural consequence of the new industrial revolution taking place in emerging economies, hundreds of millions of people, if not billions, will benefit and rise from poverty to form the new middle classes of Asia, particularly in China and India, and concurrently in Latin America, Africa and Eastern Europe. Supplying the customer demands in this emerging market and building the infrastructure for these economies, say Vogl and Sinclair, represent outstanding business opportunities not to be missed. The boom is stimulated by the steady growth and low-inflation policies now being seen in leading industrialised countries as well as by economic policies in dozens of emerging market economies that encourage investment, savings, and price stability. These economic policies are supported by social policies that are raising educational and health levels in many parts of the developing world. The authors argue that these economic and social policies will be strengthened as markets for all manner of goods and services in developing countries are being linked by technology, telecommunications, and multinational investors. Thus, the 'boom' scenario sets the vision for creating wealth in the 21st century and provides the analytical propositions of the book: Very profitable business opportunities will arise, but managing in this new era will be complicated.<br /> Using their vast experience of doing business in both Western and Third World markets, Vogl and Sinclair then tackle in Part Two, Risks, Values and Opportunities, some of the risks associated with the 'boom' scenario by looking at increasing military spending and the populist challenges to fragile democracies in the emerging economies. The road to wealth is not without obstacles and the authors warn that corruption is the single greatest threat to this scenario. Vogl and Sinclair describe this corruption threat in detail and the global actions being taken to curb this disease.<br />They also argue that the investors and businesses that fare best will be those that make the greatest effort to understand the global, political, and economic trends now emerging and those that strategize accordingly. Smart investors are already positioning themselves to take full advantage of the boom, as are many multinational corporations. They know that the maximization of profit will increasingly depend on going global and they recognize that the fastest rates of economic growth in coming years will not be in the United States, Germany, UK and Japan but in Third World countries.<br />In Part Three, Doing Business in the 21st Century, Vogl and Sinclair provide their insights into this 'boom' scenario by outlining the strategies and tactics to make full use of it. They describe the critical management considerations for winning in the new era of intensified global business competition where business conditions in almost all markets will be more competitive than ever before. From setting goals, gathering business intelligence, and building contacts to positioning in new markets, BOOM provides corporations with a blueprint for success in this new era. Business leaders should also realise, however, that the political environment of much of the Third World is changing, democracy is spreading and demands for the public accountability of public servants are rising. Thus, multinational corporations will need to change their ways, too, and in this context, partnership is the absolute key. Tomorrow's global corporations must work towards open, honest partnerships with their host country stakeholders: governments, joint venture associates, strategic alliance partners, customers, suppliers and employees.   The 'boom' scenario also poses many crucial questions for European and American managers and companies: Will the start of the new century see a fundamental shift in global economic and political power towards Asia? What will be the consequences of this? Can, for example, UK industry compete in the increasingly global market? Is it inevitable that British industry will reduce employment at home as it builds new bases in lower cost, more productive Asian and African locations? Will the boom's creation of a large Third World middle class to mean a vast consumer market also mean a major political challenge to the status quo? Will this emergent Third World middle class provide the impetus for a New World Order?   These are the pertinent questions posed by this important new book. Practising what they preach, Vogl and Sinclair bring together the diverse strands of their analysis, highlighting their vision in BOOM by describing the approaches they have taken to build Sutton Resources Ltd, a successful international minerals exploration company listed on NASDAQ. The authors outline their own experiences and demonstrate that they practise what they have described throughout the book. &quot;Sutton does not pay bribes, it earns goodwill, it engages in partnerships and it is winning,&quot; they state.<br />Reviewed by Azlan Adnan. Formerly Business Development Manager with KPMG, Azlan is currently Managing Partner of Azlan &amp; Koh Knowledge and Professional Management, an education and management consulting practice based in Kota Kinabalu, Malaysian Borneo. He holds a Master's degree in International Business and Management from the Westminster Business School in London. He may be contacted at E-mail: azlan@azlan.org	2000-12-08
US	50681244	RSM7CXDK4L2LT	0375761543	456108464	Complete Book of Business Schools, 2001 Edition	Books	4	2	5	N	N	The Buyer�s Guide to Business Schools	This annually updated guide to business schools sets out to be a comprehensive resource by profiling 372 business programmes in the USA as well as in Canada, Europe, China and several other countries, all accredited by the International Association for Management Education. It also features several chapters of advice on choosing, gaining admission to, succeeding at, and financing a business school education.<br />Each business school profile includes institutional and admissions information, tuition and financial aid facts, descriptions of degrees offered, computer and research facilities, and employment information. <br />There are several interviews with admissions officers at several business schools who share their first-hand insights on what they are looking for. The eight most commonly asked essay questions (and what's behind them) are discussed as are 12 essays by applicants who had successfully gained admission to Harvard, Stanford, Dartmouth and other business schools.<br />Especially useful for aspiring MBA candidates are the tips on the Graduate Management Aptitude Test (GMAT) in which the author shows you how to score well on it. She offers dos and don'ts for interviews, and tips for getting the best possible recommendations from your referees.<br />To get you on the inside track of MBA jargon, the author explains 50 terms in a glossary of business school lingo.<br />Since 1985, Nedda Gilbert has counselled thousands of people on admission to MBA programs, and conducted GMAT courses for employees at Fortune 500 companies. She is a business career development consultant based in New Jersey with degrees from the University of Pennsylvania and Columbia University.<br />See also my review of BusinessWeek GUIDE TO THE BEST BUSINESS SCHOOLS, Sixth Edition, BusinessWeek McGraw-Hill, New York, March 1999, ISBN: 0-07-134259-1	2000-12-07
US	50681244	RH9NNJN6SYAX2	1580631304	957263065	17 Lies That Are Holding You Back and the Truth That Will Set You Free	Books	5	6	7	N	N	We are NOT powerlessly trapped in mediocrity!	As the title suggests, this book is about lies. The 17 lies referred to in the title of this book are the very damaging lies to the soul that we send down deep inside ourselves that convince us that we are powerlessly trapped in mediocrity. And awareness is the key to the truth that will set us free.<br />In this book the author focuses on helping ordinary people like us break free of the self-told myths that keep us from realising our full potential. We have all lied to ourselves when we make self-defeating excuses such as: It's who you know; That's just the way I am; I'm not good with people; and There's nothing I can do.<br />In simple, clear language, the author dramatically reveals that we already have self-awareness, and that is the key to all the power we need to free ourselves. With his trademark energy and humour, Chandler shows us how to overcome self-imposed constraints like laziness, fear, and addiction. Most importantly, in this breakthrough book, he makes the learning process entertaining and fun. This book will help us love ourselves and realise once and for all that only the truth can set us free.<br />Steve Chandler may arguably be the most original and inspiring figure in the highly competitive world of motivational speaking. He is an author, public speaker, and corporate trainer who conducts more than 100 seminars a year. He is the author of the bestseller 100 Ways to Motivate Yourself, Reinventing Yourself and the audiobook 35 Ways to Create Great Relationships. ...	2000-12-07
US	50681244	RY9B39JNY2YKY	0684834669	974631892	True Professionalism	Books	5	1	4	N	N	A TREASURY OF PRACTICAL WISDOM FOR PROFESSIONALS	A former professor at the Harvard Business School, Boston-based David H. Maister is the world's premier consultant to professional service firms. His core principles spring from good, sound logic: Believe passionately in what you do, never compromise your standards and values, and care about your clients. <br />Maister passionately believes we should do all these because they are the ethical things to do and because they are the primary road to commercial success. <br />True Professionalism is a candid treasury of practical wisdom in which Maister expounds some eternal truths about the individual professional, the firm, and the client.<br />Reviewed by Azlan Adnan. Formerly Business Development Manager with KPMG, Azlan is currently Managing Partner of Azlan &amp; Koh Knowledge and Professional Management, an education and management consulting practice based in Kota Kinabalu, Malaysian Borneo. He holds a Master's degree in International Business and Management.	2000-12-02
US	50681244	R3V7CNQZRU849A	0471247804	498776024	Maslow on Management	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A TRUE CLASSIC, AS RELEVANT AS EVER�	One of the world's most renowned experts on human behaviour and motivation, Abraham Maslow is most famous for his perspectives on the &quot;hierarchy of human needs&quot; and self-actualization. This book updates the original edition published in 1963, entitled Eupsychian Management. It demonstrates how even today Maslow's seminal concepts of human behaviour are still playing out in the business world. This book offers new generations of managers insights into Maslow's influential theories which have emerged in modern business, approaches such as continuous improvement, enlightened management, Theory X, and empowerment. Maslow's work has powerfully affected managerial theory, organizational development, education, health care, and science as well as psychology.<br />A true classic, Maslow on Management is still as important as when it first appeared and thus essential reading for all managers.<br />The late Abraham Maslow is the most widely known expert on human behaviour and motivation. He is often referred to as the father of humanistic psychology, a body of knowledge and theories separate from the behaviorist and Freudian movements. His books are acknowledged as standards in psychology literature worldwide. <br />Deborah C. Stephens and Gary Heil are co-founders of The Center of Innovative Leadership. Deborah Stephens is an author, educator, and management consultant in the areas of customer service, leadership, and organizational development. She is co-author of One Size Fits One: Building Relationships One Customer and One Employee at a Time with Gary Heil.	2000-12-02
US	50681244	R3M7O5ETUFBRXH	0764551345	93662340	Business Writing For Dummies?	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Of immense practical help to people in business today	In writing this dummy's guide to business writing, the author has given us readers the verbal tools with which to build our careers with confidence and competence. It provides expert advice and loads of practical tips on writing effective letters, memos, reports, proposals, presentations and more.<br />Of special interest are the three whole chapters devoted to writing eloquent e-mails and on using proper Netiquette, subjects not covered in most other books on business writing available in the market today.<br />This book is actually serves two purposes for it not only provides help on business communications that is applicable to any language, it also is a guide to the correct usage of the English language, of course, with particular reference to business usage. Of immense practical help are the four Appendices on punctuation, grammar, abbreviations and spelling. While English spelling can be quite a headache, the simple rules provided do help you make sense of the numerous variations in English spelling.<br />This book is highly recommended for people in business today who intend to be the leaders in business tomorrow as it is useful to a spectrum of readers from large company managers to fresh graduates just entering the business world. It has an excellent blend of practical basics, advanced concepts, and skilled insight that will make them better communicators.<br />Sheryl Lindsell-Roberts, MA is a marketing communications specialist, training consultant and author of more than a dozen books.<br />Among other things, Azlan Adnan, MA is a tutor at Excel Tuition Centre where he teaches English to secondary school students and Business English to adults. He previously taught Business Communications at the School of Management, Royal Holloway College, University of London. He holds a Master's degree in International Business and Management from the Westminster Business School in London. He may be contacted at Tel: +6088-383 526  E-mail: azlan@azlan.org	2000-12-01
US	50681244	R1UEMALOF077AS	0875845851	889399178	The Innovator's Dilemma: When New Technologies Cause Great Firms to Fail	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Presents convention-defying rules on disruptive innovation	This book takes the radical position that great companies can fail precisely because they do everything right. It gives examples of outstanding companies that have lost their market leadership when confronted with disruptive changes in technology and market structure. Drawing on patterns of innovation in a variety of industries, including computers, retailing, pharmaceuticals, automobiles and steel, the author shows how breakthrough innovations are initially rejected by mainstream customers because they cannot currently use them. <br />This rejection can lead firms with strong customer focus to allow strategically important innovations to languish. An excessive customer focus prevents firms from creating new markets and finding new customers for the products of the future. As they unwittingly bypass opportunities, such firms can clear the way for more nimble, entrepreneurial companies to catch the next great wave of industry growth.<br />Using the lessons of successes and failures of leading companies, The Innovator's Dilemma presents a set of convention-defying rules on the phenomenon of disruptive innovation. This, then, is the innovator's dilemma: when to apply the rules of disruptive innovation that goes so much head-to-head against the conventional wisdom.<br />Clayton M. Christensen is an associate professor of business administration at the Harvard Business School. His research and writing focus on the management of technological innovation, the problems of finding new markets for new technologies, and the identification and development of organisational capabilities.<br />Reviewed by Azlan Adnan. Formerly Business Development Manager with KPMG, Azlan is currently Managing Partner of Azlan &amp; Koh Knowledge and Professional Management, an education and management consulting practice based in Kota Kinabalu, Malaysian Borneo. He holds a Master's degree in International Business and Management from the Westminster Business School in London. He may be contactedat Tel: +6088-383 526  E-mail: azlan@azlan.org	2000-12-01
US	50681244	R2LY587TFUCKEP	0471837563	139484257	Asian Business Wisdom: Lessons from the Region's Best and Brightest Business Leaders	Books	5	3	3	N	N	First book to explore minds of Asia�s top business leaders	Unfortunately, for one reason or another, Asian business leaders have not exactly written a wealth of material documenting their timeless management philosophies, success stories, and practical advice on key business concepts. Subsequently, there is a dearth of materials on managing in Asia and Asian business success stories. This book helps to fill the void, giving valuable information from the leading names in Asian business markets. Now, for the first time, some of the region's best and brightest business leaders have been brought together in one exciting collection. <br />Rajat Gupta of McKinsey, Stan Shih of Acer, Washington SyCip of SGV Group, Joanna Lau of LAU Technologies, David K.P. Li of Bank of East Asia Ltd, Cheong Choong Kong of Singapore Airlines, are some of the 32 leading Asian CEOs who share their thoughts on doing business in Asia. Informative, insightful, and inspirational, the book offers a fascinating glimpse into the finest business minds in the region. <br />The 32 articles in Asian Business Wisdom are organised into six parts covering Management Philosophies, Instilling Corporate Culture, The Entrepreneurial Spirit, Lessons from China, Sales and Marketing Strategies and Managing in Tough Times. Each article is accompanied by an introduction that highlights its author's life and business achievements and a list of online resources which points the reader to related articles or organisations.<br />Sadly, except for a passing reference to Robert Kuok Hock Nien on page 169, Malaysians are conspicuous by their absence in this book. Despite this glaring omission, this is nevertheless a book from which managers worldwide will surely benefit. Economic and financial crisis notwithstanding, Asia remains in the sights of many global business leaders and decision-makers as a region of vast economic and business potential.<br />A freelance writer and editor, Filipina Dinna Louise C. Dayao is a former associate editor of World Executive Digest, one of Asia's leading business magazines.<br />Reviewed by Azlan Adnan. Formerly Business Development Manager with KPMG, Azlan is currently Managing Partner of Azlan &amp; Koh Knowledge and Professional Management, an education and management consulting practice based in Kota Kinabalu, Malaysian Borneo. He holds a Master's degree in International Business and Management from the Westminster Business School in London. He may be contacted at Tel: +6088-383 526  E-mail: azlan@azlan.org	2000-12-01
US	50681244	R3H46J9NBX4794	1568843844	743073379	Sex For Dummies (...for Dummies Business and General Reference Book)	Books	3	14	30	N	N	JEWISH GRANDMOTHER GIVES ADVICE ON SEX	Sex for Dummies is intended to give its readers a start on a healthy approach to sexuality by dispelling ignorance-both the not-knowing and the not-caring kind. Despite it being the new millennium, we adults continue to do a lousy job of educating ourselves and our young people about sex. <br />Part of the reason is that, in Asian culture, we're often embarrassed to talk about sex, especially when it comes to talking with our own flesh and blood. As parents, many of us avoid the subject entirely. Often, even when we do work up the courage to have a heart-to-heart talk with &quot;the kids,&quot; we don't do much more than warn our daughters to avoid pregnancy and scare our sons with the threat of sexually transmitted diseases. <br />While these are certainly important points to cover, where does an adolescent learn about issues of good sexual functioning, such as how to have an orgasm, or how to be the best lover possible? This is where books on human sexuality such as this play their role in sex education.<br />However, this otherwise excellent primer on human sexuality is marred by a number of inaccuracies that are really quite inexcusable. In the diagram of The innards of the vulva (Figure 3-2) on page 35, the labia minora are incorrectly labelled as the labia majora and the entrance to the vagina is incorrectly labelled as the labia minora. <br />On page 188, the author devotes a mere three paragraphs to the G-spot before inaccurately concluding that &quot;there has never been any scientifically validated proof that it exists.&quot; A grandmother, Dr Ruth K. Westheimer would be well advised to keep up on current literature. Dr Westheimer does admit, however, on Page 4 that she is &quot;old-fashioned and a square.&quot;<br />Dr Westheimer's writing on relationship issues, however, does benefit from her long experience as a mother, grandmother and sex therapist. Much of her advice is pragmatic and makes much sense.<br />Reviewed by Azlan Adnan. Azlan is currently Managing Partner of Azlan &amp; Koh Knowledge and Professional Management, an education and management consulting practice based in Kota Kinabalu, Malaysian Borneo. He holds a Master's degree in International Business and Management from the Westminster Business School in London. He may be contacted at E-mail: azlan@azlan.org	2000-12-01
US	50681244	R173QSOYZDYJG2	0764561944	983805900	London For Dummies? (Dummies Travel)	Books	4	22	22	N	N	Recommended not only to tourists but also to expats	Although obviously written for an American audience, this easy-to-understand guide is all you need to make the most of an unforgettable trip to, or an extended stay in, London. As someone who has lived in London for a total of eight years, I would recommend this guide not only to tourists but also to foreigners who live in London, including students and businessmen.<br />This guide is divided into seven parts, each consisting of between three and six chapters. Parts I &amp; II, Getting Started and Ironing Out the Details are really meant to be read before you arrive in London as they deal with the advance planning aspects of your trip; such as booking your flight and hotel, and obtaining your passport.<br />The other Parts deal with transportation (including how to use London buses and The Tube), accommodation, dining, entertainment, and shopping. My favourite in Chapter 17: More Cool Things to See and Do which will really make your stay in London unforgettable. London has many unique sights and cultural features that are not available elsewhere. While many Londoners take these for granted, foreigners simply do not know that such places exist and tend to go to the usual tourist spots. Chapter 17 will be a real eye-opener to the heart and soul of historical and cultural London. Much of the information in the other chapters may be obtained for free from a number of sources, either on the Internet or tourist brochures but Chapter 17 and Part VII are what really make this guide unique and invaluable.<br />The final Part, Part VII, consists of various interesting odds and ends that don't fit into the other chapters. Overall, the many maps, addresses and websites make this guide extremely handy indeed.<br />Reviewed by Azlan Adnan, MA who has lived in lived for a total of eight years, initially as a student at Brunel University, the University of Westminster and the University of London. He has also worked in London as a research officer and university lecturer. Azlan is currently Managing Partner of Azlan &amp; Koh Knowledge and Professional Management, an education and management consulting practice based in Kota Kinabalu, Malaysian Borneo. He may be contacted at Tel: +6088-383 526 E-mail: azlan@azlan.orgcurrently Managing Partner of Azlan &amp; Koh Knowledge and Professional Management, an education and management consulting practice based in Kota Kinabalu, Malaysian Borneo. He may be contacted at Tel: +6088-383 526 E-mail: azlan@azlan.org	2000-12-01
US	50681244	R2K8MCB442W0HD	030905494X	907886184	The Whole Truth About Contraception: A Guide to Safe and Effective Choices	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Detailed guide to birth control methods currently available	What birth control method is most reliable? Can contraceptives protect me from AIDS? How can I choose the method that's best for me? Finding the answers to these and other questions about birth control can be tough. On the one hand, today's young couples have many contraceptive options. On the other hand, each option has pluses and minuses that must be weighed.<br />This book is a detailed guide to the methods of birth control currently available, plus a brief review of new methods being developed. Each chapter describes a specific method and provides information to help you choose a contraceptive suited to you and your current situation. Chapters discuss the advantages and disadvantages of each contraceptive, safety concerns, general effectiveness, side effects, costs, and how to obtain and use it.<br />As you think about the birth control options available to you, remember no single method may be ideal or totally reliable. Furthermore, many contraceptives have some side effects and most require a certain amount of care in their use. To choose the right one for you, be thoughtful about the disadvantages as well as the advantages. If you are comfortable with your birth control choice, you are more likely to use it every time and to stick with it. If possible, the decision about what method to choose should be made with your spouse. As this guide demonstrates, it is much easier to use a contraceptive correctly when both of you are involved.<br />This guide includes up-to-date information on new products, such as the female condom and the non-latex male condom. Only birth control methods that are currently available or show every promise of being available soon are discussed. <br />The book also provides details about contraception and its relation to sexually transmitted diseases, with an emphasis on AIDS. Also offered is an expanded discussion of &quot;emergency&quot; contraception, designed for use after unprotected sex. Many of the methods discussed in this guiderequire a visit to a health practitioner as such at family planning services, independent clinics and hospitals. <br />Although clearly intended for someone planning to use a contraceptive method, this book is detailed enough to be useful to nurses and youth counselors interested in the subject. Whether you intend to have children or not, every newlywed couple owes it to themselves and their loved ones to read this book.<br />Reviewed by Azlan Adnan. Azlan is Managing Partner of Azlan &amp; Koh Knowledge and Professional Management, an education and management consulting practice based in Kota Kinabalu, Malaysian Borneo. He holds a Master's degree in International Business and Management from the Westminster Business School in London.	2000-12-01
US	50681244	R1I11QFU143K1O	0674258533	542945282	Environment and Development in a Resource-Rich Economy: Malaysia under the New Economic Policy (Harvard Studies in International Development)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Useful Reference for Research on Malaysia	This path-breaking book applies rigorous and invaluable economic analysis to major natural resource and environmental policy issues in Malaysia under the New Economic Policy decades of the 1970s and 1980s-a period of profound socio-economic changes, rapid depletion of natural resources, and the emergence of serious air and water pollution problems.<br />It examines the interrelationship among natural resources, environmental quality, and economic development. This scholarly work addresses, from an economic perspective, a broad set of natural resource and environmental issues in Malaysia and places it in a historical context.<br />This book would be of particular interest to resource and environmental economists, and development economists, i.e. anyone seeking a thorough understanding of the economic underpinnings of natural resource and environmental management policy in fast-growing, resource-abundant Malaysia. It represents a reference volume to facilitate further research on Malaysian natural resource and environmental policy issues.<br />Dr Jeffrey R. Vincent is a Fellow at the Harvard Institute for International Development. Formerly director of the Centre for Environmental Studies at Malaysia's Institute of Strategic and International Studies, Dr Rozali Mohamed Ali is currently executive director of Commerce Asset Holdings Berhad.	2000-09-24
US	50681244	R3K4P0BVAU7XZJ	0312212577	75067482	The Shaping of Malaysia (Studies in the Economies of East and Sou)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent Primer on Malaysia	This book provides a systematic description and analysis of the factors that shaped Malaysia, bringing together studies on the country's geological origins and mineral resources, flora, fauna, peoples and cultures, political change, economy and society, environment and eco-tourism. It explicates Malaysia's current economic and political development by considering it in the light of these natural and human resources. Besides taking a comparative view of such changes in Sabah, Sarawak and Peninsular Malaysia, it highlights Malaysia's incorporation into the wider global economy.<br />Offering an integrated perspective on Malaysia by focusing on its natural and human resource endowments, it also goes on to explore how they have changed over time. This book makes an important contribution to a greater understanding of present-day Malaysia by providing the background to essential elements in the evolution of the country's modern economy and society.<br />A collection of papers from those presented at a colloquium on `Research on Malaysia-Recent Advances' at the University of New England, Australia on October 1995, this book is therefore not exhaustive and some issues are dealt with more fully than others. For example, the chapter on fauna is devoted mostly to the orang utan, neglecting other endangered species such as the Sumatran rhinoceros and tiger.<br />Formerly associate professor in the History Department of the University of Malaya, Amarjit Kaur is now associate professor and head of the Department of Economic History at the University of New England, New South Wales, Australia. Formerly lecturer and senior lecturer in the Geology Departments of the University of Malaya and Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia, Ian Metcalfe is currently associate professor in the Division of Earth Sciences, School of Physical Sciences and Engineering, University of New England.	2000-09-24
US	50681244	R18Z3YJDIA2VB2	067460542X	682574940	Nature Wars: People vs. Pests	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Advocates Pest Management via Biological Control	Since 1962, when Rachel Carson published her seminal work, Silent Spring, nothing much has changed in our practice of pest control. Carson had advocated that the methods we employ for pest control must be such that they do not destroy us along with the insects. Yet today, despite the lip service we pay to Silent Spring, and in spite of considerable environmental protest, public outcry and the availability of viable alternatives, we still choose to spray chemical pesticides at an alarming rate. In fact, chemical pesticides still remain our pest control method of choice.<br />Our attitude is to approach pests as organisms to control rather than manage; we exterminate instead of reduce; we dominate rather than learn to accommodate. Why this sad state of affairs remains so is a central theme of this book, which introduces the concept of pest management (as opposed to pest control). Pest management forces us to look beyond the immediate benefits and disadvantages, costs and side effects, of pest control methods towards choosing alternatives that are more environmentally compatible and less harmful to our own health. The author explores scientifically exciting alternative technologies such as biological control, yet admits, as the 1990 gypsy moth invasion of Vancouver has shown, that the public needs more education and assurance on its safety and environmental correctness.<br />This book provides such an education and forms the basis for novel biologically based strategies involving pheromones, parasitic insects, bio-engineered crops and pest diseases to become standard practice.<br />Mark L. Winston is professor of biological sciences at Simon Fraser University in British Columbia, Canada. He is the author of two previous books, The Biology of the Honey Bee and Killer Bees.	2000-09-24
US	50681244	RMCLOH6M8UGWZ	0465031129	819957664	Hard Green: Saving The Environment From The Environmentalists: A Conservative Manifesto	Books	5	33	41	N	N	One of America's Leading Contrarians Has His Say	This book sets out a comprehensive conservative position on the  environment, declaring that Hard Greens (conservative) share the large  objectives (actual or merely claimed) of the Soft Greens (liberal), but  disagree with and reject much of what they diagnose as the source of  despoliation and environmental decay.<br />Accordingly, Hard Greens reject  most of the solutions that Soft Greens prescribe. Libertarian activist  Huber takes on chapter by chapter the big issues of environmental  discourse, from scarcity and pollution to efficiency and waste disposal.  Hard Green is a strongly argued critique of environmentalism from the  political right. Huber argues that Soft Green environmental policies do  exactly the opposite of what they intend, and lays out a clear program for  a Hard Green approach to the environment. By making you re-examine your  assumptions, this book makes the richest contribution ever made to the  greening of the political mind.<br />This book is a must read for anyone who  really cares about preserving the environment. The author has combined his  knowledge of true science with a lawyer's logic to destroy old myths and  chart new pathways to keeping the planet truly green.<br />Peter William Huber  (1952- ) is a Senior Fellow at the Manhattan Institute and a columnist for  Forbes. He holds both a doctorate in engineering from MIT and a JD from the  Harvard Law School. Huber's previous books include Liability and Galileo's  Revenge.	2000-09-17
US	50681244	RNAXNZ55SOP4P	0674107462	85309079	Randomness	Books	4	20	20	N	N	Beginner�s guide to randomness, statistics and probability	In writing this beginner's guide to randomness, the author assumes that  the reader's understanding of the concepts underlying statistics and  probability is somewhat shaky as misconceptions abound, and certain  concepts are particularly problematic. The author has, therefore, used  lucid, expressive and entertaining language to clear up our misconceptions  about this intrinsically fascinating branch of mathematics.<br />Used for  seeking divine direction, decision-making and games, the practice of chance  mechanisms have been discovered throughout Mesopotamia, the Indus valley,  Egypt, Greece and the Roman Empire. Yet, probability was not seriously  studied until the mid-17th century. Historians have long wondered why  conceptual progress in this field was so slow, given that humans have  encountered chance repeatedly from earliest times. <br />The answer lies in  the difficulty of understanding randomness. Probability is based on the  concept of a random event, and statistical inference is based on the  distribution of random samples. Often, we assume that the concept of  randomness is obvious. Yet, problems having to do with chance typically  appear simple and amenable to solution with natural good sense, only to be  proven otherwise. Over the course of 10 chapters, this book investigates a  series of ideas central to the historical development of probabilistic  thinking.<br />This book is highly recommended to anyone who is a total  beginner when it comes to probability as it not only elucidates the reader  on the subject, but also explains why probability is often  counter-intuitive and hence desperately puzzling. Despite its abstruse  nature, probability is a very useful tool and this book shows how it can be  used to good effect. Filled with historical asides, this handy,  pocket-sized book will clear up your misconceptions. Despite its easy-going  conversational style, it is a thorough academic work with 50 pages of  references, bibliography and the index.<br />Deborah J. Bennett (1950- ) is  assistant professor of mathematics at Jersey City State College, New  Jersey. <br />See also my review of: WHY FLIP A COIN? The Art and Science of  Good Decisions H.W. Lewis John Wiley &amp; Sons, Inc., August 1998 ISBN:  0-471-29645-7, Paperback, US$14.95, 206 pages	2000-09-17
US	50681244	R3B55YSZHCJBNR	1857880706	416480443	NLP at Work: The Difference That Makes a Difference in Business (People Skills for Professionals Series)	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Clear and readable guide that cuts through the jargon	NLP or Neuro Linguistic Programming is how you make sense of your world  and most importantly how to make it what you want it to be. Other books  tell you what to do. The difference that makes a difference with NLP is  that it gives you the know how.<br />Neuro concerns the way you filter and  process your experience through your senses. Linguistic concerns the way  you interpret your experience through language whilst Programming concerns  the way you code your language and behaviour into you own personal  program.<br />Sue Knight explains the difference that makes the difference  between those who excel and those who `get by' in the way they communicate,  motivate, influence, negotiate, lead, empower and manage their own  self-development.<br />This clear and readable guide cuts through the jargon  of NLP, and introduces the techniques that will enable you to become more  successful in any area of business that you choose.<br />Sue Knight is a  leading trainer in and speaker on NLP for business. She pioneers the  special use of NLP to improve the quality of the business world.	2000-09-17
US	50681244	R3BTK8P021EEDR	0471357324	308278695	On Giants' Shoulders: Great Scientists and Their Discoveries From Archimedes to DNA	Books	5	4	5	N	N	PERSONALITY OF SCIENTISTS COME TO LIFE!	On Giants' Shoulders is a tribute to twelve scientists who, in the last  two thousand five hundred years, changed the world both as we perceive it  and as we live in it. Their minds, their lives, their struggles, their  colleagues and rivals are explored and unravelled by some of today's  leading scientists. Taken together, their stories and discoveries  constitute a guide to the history of science.<br />A bestseller in England,  this book combines engaging portraits of these figures with accessible  discussions of their most important discoveries. Those profiled are  Archimedes, Galileo, Newton, Lavoisier, Faraday, Darwin, Poincaré, Freud,  Curie, Einstein, Francis Crick and James Watson. Their stories are enhanced  by insights provided by interviews with some of today's leading scientists,  including Paul Davies, Richard Dawkins, Stephen Jay Gould, John Gribbin,  Sir Roger Penrose, Sir Martin Rees and Oliver Sacks.<br />Based on interviews  broadcast over British radio, this book differs from the radio series in  the ampler amount of material contained, as it was possible to include more  material from the original transcripts, which had been mercilessly pruned  for the thirty-minute radio programmes.<br />Melvyn Bragg is an acclaimed  journalist and the host of the popular BBC Radio 4 programme Start the  Week. He is also the author of seventeen novels and five works of  non-fiction, including biographies of Richard Burton and Laurence Olivier.	2000-08-19
US	50681244	R25MW7H0SN0MX0	0471318531	689159581	Black Enterprise Titans of the B.E. 100s: Black CEOs Who Redefined and Conquered American Business	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Eleven inspiring African American business success stories	This is a book of African American business success stories. Until now,  the eleven self-made black business leaders featured-The Titans of the  Black Enterprise 100s-were virtually unknown, even to American business  students. Yet, they run America's largest black-owned companies and have  been the vanguard of an entrepreneurial revolution. Achieving success  despite lack of capital, diminished access, and outright racism, they used  inspiration and drive to seize opportunities and break barriers. They are  black America's wealthiest and most powerful players, providing employment,  training, and advancement for large numbers of African Americans.<br />They  represent, in many ways, the economic evolution of post-war African  Americans. The first step in the effort for black equality was driven  largely by the Civil Rights Movement, which led to the social and legal  reforms of the 1950s and 1960s. Next, the passage of the Civil Rights Act  of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act of 1965, which eliminated such barriers  to political activity as the poll tax and illiteracy test, gave rise to the  increase in black political strength with the election of blacks to  Congress in the late 1960s and 1970s. Those events were followed by the  propulsion of black economic power in which African Americans gained an  opportunity to amass wealth and achieve the American Dream that had been  elusive for so long. In the 1980s and 1990s, blacks, who gained access to  the nation's leading universities and major corporations, leveraged their  education and experience to acquire and finance new companies as well as  develop enterprises through emerging technologies.<br />The eleven chapters of  this book each tell the untold story of these titans and the contributions  they and their companies have made to American industry and life. Their  stories and ideas will instruct, inspire, illuminate and motivate the  reader to build on their success. This book is a source of inspiration and  motivation to the next generation of captains of industry of all races and  both genders the world over.<br />Derek T. Dingle is an editor-at-large for  Black Enterprise magazine. For more than a decade, he has covered the B.E.  100s, which profile the 100 largest black-owned businesses, and he recently  served as writer for B.E. 100s Exclusive, a newsletter for CEOs of these  companies. In addition to his role as the managing editor of BE several  years ago, he served as president and CEO of Milestone Media, Inc., which  was America's largest black-owned comic book company.	2000-08-19
US	50681244	R3TQFZVT1CZ4S1	0875845851	889399178	The Innovator's Dilemma: When New Technologies Cause Great Firms to Fail	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Seminal	This book takes the radical position that great companies can fail precisely because they do everything right. It demonstrates why outstanding  companies lose their market leadership when confronted with disruptive  technology-and it explains how to avoid a similar fate. Drawing on insights  from a number of industries-such as the computer and disk drive industries,  discount retailing, minimills, pharmaceuticals, and the automobile  industry-Christensen shows why good management often turns out to be all  wrong-and what to do about it.	2000-08-19
US	50681244	R2UB9DYCDMREQ7	0071342591	139365459	Business Week Guide to The Best Business Schools	Books	4	11	16	N	N	Too Skimpky: Needs to be more in-depth to be meaningful	Take the guesswork out of the most important career decision you'll ever  make! Which MBA program is right for you? Which school's grads get the  highest total pay packages? Which schools have the highest-rated programs  in management, finance, marketing, entrepreneurship, international  business? What are the up-and-coming schools-those that may be at the top  of everyone's list in a few years? And just as important, what kind of  educational experience will you have in terms of campus life, workload, and  curriculum? A slick brochure won't tell you. This book will! Completely  revised and updated, the BusinessWeek Guide to the Best Business Schools is  the only guide that provides accurate rankings and profiles of the best  graduate business schools rated by the people who know them best: recent  graduates and corporate recruiters. Find out how the top 50 schools stack  up against one another and which international schools you might consider  as well. Compare the top 25 with the 25 runners up-maybe you don't need the  top school to get what you want. Discover the strengths and weaknesses of  each school in: quality of teaching-including the most outstanding  professors at each school as rated by the students; average starting pay  for graduates, and success of placement offices in finding you your dream  job; curriculum innovations and niche programs you won't hear about  elsewhere; average GMATs and GPAs for admitted students; campus environment  and what to expect when you arrive. Plus, get expert advice on how to  increase your GMAT scores, earn big points with your applications and  written essays, find today's bargains in a quality MBA education, get your  school to foot part of your tuition, and much more!	2000-08-19
US	50681244	RRGKOU0BFUOTC	0471296139	117502222	High Standards, Hard Choices: A CEO's Journey of Courage, Risk, and Change	Books	1	3	6	N	N	Revisionist History by Spin Doctor	Dana Mead was one of the business leaders of the `90s revolution that  sparked the United States' resurgence as the world's largest and most  productive economy. In 1992, Mead spearheaded a transformation of Tenneco,  one of the nation's most troubled conglomerates. He went on to become a  policy shaper and voice of American industry as chairman of the National  Association of Manufacturers.<br />High Standards, Hard Choices takes a rare  look at the convictions of a man on the front lines during a time when  companies were reborn and heroes were made. It documents a series of  dramatic events in the widely publicised struggle of Tenneco's Mike Walsh  against an aggressive brain cancer. Mead was forced to juggle increasing  pressures to keep Tenneco's recovery on course. In this memoir, Mead  convincingly captures the hopes, risks and turmoil of Tenneco's frustrating  bid to gain new business overseas while conducting an unrelenting battle to  change federal policy in Washington, DC.<br />The essence of a tough-minded,  humanitarian brand of leadership makes this book a source of inspiration  for readers in all walks of management life.<br />Dana G. Mead (1936- ) was  Chairman and CEO of Tenneco from 1994 to 1999 as well as chairman of the  Business Roundtable (1998-99). A retired Army colonel with a doctorate in  political science and economics from MIT, Mead served as a White House  Fellow in 1970. Thomas C. Hayes is a former award-winning New York Times  economics correspondent who worked with Mead as an executive at Tenneco.	2000-08-19
US	50681244	R22K8FPRYT808L	0071342672	304332373	The Right to Be Human: A Biography of Abraham Maslow	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Excellent Biography	Why have almost all of today's most celebrated marketing wizards made it  their business to know about this man and examine his ideas? Why does  virtually every serious management book recognize, document, and praise his  insights? How do his life and his legacy continue to inspire and inform the  visions of today's most alert and innovative entrepreneurs? Why is global  interest now mounting in his multifaceted work? <br />Fascinating and  visionary, Abraham Harold Maslow (1908-1970) pioneered revolutionary ideas  that helped form modern psychology and laid the foundation of the human  side of management and marketing. His lifetime of discoveries in motivation  and personality transcended academic psychology, and extended into the  major business fields of management and marketing. Maslow also loved to  explore nascent, barely perceptible social trends and speculate boldly  about their long-term consequences. He was the originator of such important  concepts as the hierarchy of human needs, self-actualization, higher  motivation, team decision-making and business synergy.<br />All business  students-not just of management development and organizational  behaviour-should read this seminal biography. Critically acclaimed in its  first edition and now revised and updated for this paperback edition, The  Right to Be Human is a fascinating portrait of one of the seminal thinkers  of the twentieth century-at once a vivid biography of a truly original  personality and an intellectual journey to the very source of how we think  about and manage our businesses today. <br />Edward Hoffman, PhD, is a  clinical psychologist in New York with degrees from Cornell University and  the University of Michigan. He has authored several books including Future  Visions: The Unpublished Papers of Abraham Maslow, The Drive for Self:  Alfred Adler and the Founding of Individual Psychology and The Book of  Fathers' Wisdom.	2000-08-19
US	50681244	REOQVC6657N0E	0415187192	728902832	Philosophy: Basic Readings	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Good Primer	Philosophy is an exhilarating subject to study as it challenges previously  unquestioned beliefs, develops transferable thinking skills, and gives  students a chance to interact with the ideas of some of the greatest  thinkers known to humanity. One reason for it being such a stimulating  subject is that in order to study it you have to enter into the debate  rather than observe it from the sidelines.<br />This anthology of basic  philosophical readings is ideal for anyone coming to philosophy for the  first time as it demonstrates philosophy in action. Nigel Warburton brings  philosophy to life with an imaginative selection of 44 philosophical  writings on key topics by such renown philosophers as A.J. Ayer, Bertrand  Russell, Blaise Pascal, David Hume, Richard Dawkins, Immanuel Kant, John  Stuart Mill, Thomas Hobbes, René Descartes, George Berkeley, Karl Popper  and Ludwig Wittgenstein. These carefully chosen readings are easy to  understand, are accessible and will give the reader a thorough  understanding of philosophy. <br />The aim has not been comprehensive coverage  of all the central topics in philosophy, but rather interesting coverage of  a selection of topics. Each chapter considers a key area of philosophy  grouped under the following themes:  * What is philosophy? * God * Right  and wrong * Politics * The external world * Science * Mind * Art <br />Each  theme in this book complements the sections in the companion volume  Philosophy: The Basics (3rd edition 1999) by the same author.	2000-08-19
US	50681244	R2PY9S2AM0SG18	0814470432	96686359	Complete Guide to Home Business	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Beginners Guide for Budding Business Persons	If you're starting or running a home business, there's one thing you need:  practical information at your fingertips! This book is a life-saver-an  all-in-one, quick-answer guide to all the issues, big and small, that  homepreneurs deal with  every day.      <br />Robert Spiegel takes readers by  the hand and leads them through every stage of business from initial idea  to maturity to selling:<br />* Choosing the business-build it or buy it;  franchising; multilevel marketing; evaluating your strengths and skills *   Starting up-the business plan; licenses, permits, zoning; taxes and   insurance; equipment and furnishings; financing; governmental resources;   outsourcing; managing your time * Marketing-publicity; advertising; direct  marketing; sales    * Controlling growth-trouble signs; finding mentors;  building credibility  and stability; expanding or staying put * Planning  your exit-should you sell, and when; leaving the business to  heirs;  planning for the unexpected <br />Robert Spiegel is a successful entrepreneur  who launched and ran  Chile Pepper Magazine for ten years. He writes  frequently for Home Business  Magazine and is a contributor to the America  On-Line home business site.	2000-08-19
US	50681244	R2Z0SZT65AXHH	0471720321	758307691	Last Days of the Giants?: A Route Map for Big Business Survival	Books	4	0	0	N	N	On problems, challenges and opportunities of post-2000 era	In this, his second book, Robert Baldock continues in his visionary vein to tackle the problems, challenges and opportunities that the year 2000  onwards will bring for old-style &quot;giants' of the last century.<br />The  subject of this book are the problems facing big business, especially if  they stand still instead of moving with, and even ahead of, the times. The  greatest threats to the so-called `giants' can come from the most  unexpected quarters. Suddenly a small, independent company from the other  side of the world can, without warning, take large chunks of your market  share. They can do this because they are quicker of thought, more flexible  in attitude and more closely attuned to the real needs of their customers  than you are.<br />In this book, Robert Baldock looks at the ways in which you  can change the nature of your business so that you can begin the 21st  century on at least an equal footing with your hungry, determined  competitors. This includes looking at the nature of what you offer to your  customers, the relationship you have with your customers, and the level to  which you should continue trying to do everything internally against the  option of outsourcing.<br />The author concludes by giving us a  three-dimensional mental model to visualise when thinking about the kinds  of things we should be doing.<br />Robert Baldock (1955- ) was, until  recently, a global managing partner in Anderson Consulting, the management  and technology consultancy, responsible for eCommerce, Customer  Relationship Management and Mergers and Acquisitions within the Financial  Services Industry. He led a team within Andersen's global financial  services practice in developing a set of scenarios for the future of the  financial services industry as well as an initiative looking at the future  shape of the consumer serving industries. He is the author of Destination  Z.	2000-08-19
US	50681244	RXN3H8UF1ZVQ9	0471529427	651720508	Edison: A Life of Invention	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Definitive Biography of Edison	The conventional story is so familiar and reassuring that it has come to  read more like American myth than history: With only three months of formal  education, a curious and hardworking young man beats the odds and becomes  one of the greatest inventors in history. Not only does he invent the  phonograph and the first successful electric light bulb, but he also  establishes the first electrical power distribution company and lays the  technological groundwork for today's movies, telephones, and sound  recording industry. Through relentless tinkering, by trial and error, the  story goes, Thomas Alva Edison (1847-1931) perseveres-and changes the  world.<br />In the revelatory Edison: A Life of Invention, the author exposes  and enriches this one-dimensional view of the solitary &quot;Wizard of  Menlo Park,&quot; expertly situating his subject within a thoroughly  realized portrait of a burgeoning country on the brink of massive change.  The second half of the nineteenth century witnessed the birth of corporate  America, and with it the newly overlapping interests of scientific,  technological, and industrial cultures. Working against the common  perception of Edison as a symbol of a mythic American past where  persistence and individuality yielded hard-earned success, Israel  demonstrates how Edison's remarkable career was actually very much a  product of the inventor's fast-changing era. Edison drew widely from  contemporary scientific knowledge and research, and was a crucial figure in  the transformation of invention into modern corporate research and  collaborative development.<br />Informed by more than five million pages of  archival documents, this ambitious biography of Edison brightens the  unexamined corners of a singularly influential and triumphant career in  science. In these pages, history's most prolific inventor-he received an  astounding 1,093 U.S. patents-comes to life as never before. Edison is the  only biography to cover the whole of Edison's career in invention,  including his early, foundational work in telegraphy. Armed with  unprecedented access to Edison's workshop diaries, notebooks, and letters,  this book brings fresh insights into how the inventor's creative mind  worked. And for the first time, much attention is devoted to his early  family life in Ohio and Michigan-where the young Edison honed his  entrepreneurial sense and eye for innovation as a newsstand owner and  editor of a weekly newspaper-underscoring the inventor's later successes  with new resonance and pathos.<br />In recognizing the inventor's legacy as a  pivotal figure in the second Industrial Revolution, the author highlights  Edison's creation of the industrial research laboratory, driven by  intricately structured teams of researchers. The efficient lab forever  changed the previously serendipitous art of workshop invention into  something regular, predictable, and very attractive to corporate business  leaders. Indeed, Edison's collaborative research model became the prototype  upon which today's research firms and think tanks are based.<br />The portrait  of Thomas Alva Edison that emerges from this peerless biography is of a man  of genius and astounding foresight. It is also a portrait rendered with  incredible care, depth, and dimension, rescuing our century's godfather of  invention from myth and simplification.<br />Paul Israel is the Managing  Editor of the multivolume documentary edition of the Thomas Edison Papers  at Rutgers University and the coauthor of Edison's Electric Light. He lives  in Highland Park, New Jersey.	2000-08-19
US	50681244	R1SDZ30LYZYO7O	1853833223	235716805	Children's Participation: The Theory and Practice of Involving Young Citizens in Community Development and Environmental Care	Books	4	12	12	N	N	PRACTICAL ADVICE FOR INVOLVING CHILDREN IN THE ENVIRONMENT	Firstly, I would like to say, contrary to what is written elsewhere on this page, that this book is not meant to be read by children between the ages of 9 and 12. It is, in fact, recommended for environmental NGOs,  policy makers, teachers, youth workers and community leaders who work with  children.<br />This book was commissioned by UNICEF to further growing  concerns of global importance: the environment, sustainable development and  children's rights. All over world, children are becoming enthusiastically  involved in environmental issues. While the child is defined as any person  under 18 years of age, the focus of this book is on childhood and early  adolescence to about 14 years, rather than upon the older teenage years.<br />  Roger Hart is convinced that all children can play a central and lasting  role in sustainable development if their genuine participation is taken  seriously and if communities recognize their developing competencies and  unique strengths. Using detailed case studies from urban and rural, poor  and middle-class communities in both the developed and developing worlds,  and including photos, figures, tables and boxes, this guide introduces the  organising principles, successful models, practical techniques and  resources for involving children in environmental projects, with useful  further reading and contact addresses.<br />Roger Hart is Director of the  Children's Environments Research Group at the City University of New York  and Editor of Children's Environments.	2000-07-31
US	50681244	R3QZG6T2ASTSOK	0132622394	953023948	Marketing Management and Strategy (2nd Edition)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Meet customers' needs more effectively than the competition	This book explores the role of marketing in the modern enterprise, presenting an up-to-date review of the most important concepts and techniques that managers need in order to analyse today's markets and to  capitalise on the opportunities that are continually emerging. Marketing is  the single most important determinant of success as the ability to  satisfy-or delight-customers is the only determinant of an enterprise's  ability to generate revenues. No enterprise exists for its own sake but  rather its mission is to meet the needs of those customers it was created  to serve.<br />Thus, marketing, according to author Peter Doyle, is the  philosophy of management that recognises that the success of the enterprise  is only sustainable if it can organise to meet the current and prospective  needs of customers more effectively than the competition. Marketing tries  to get the enterprise to develop and offer what the customer will find of  real value. In this way, marketing seeks to build long-term, mutually  beneficial partnerships between the enterprise and its customers.<br />This  innovative book is for senior managers and those taking advanced marketing  courses on MBA, CIM and similar post-experience programmes. It focuses on  strategic planning and decision making in today's rapidly changing and  highly competitive global markets.<br />Peter Doyle is Professor of Marketing  and Strategic Management at the University of Warwick, where he heads both  the executive and MBA programmes. He has previously held positions at  INSEAD, London Business School, Bradford University, Stanford and the  University of Hawaii. He is one of the world's leading academics and an  experienced consultant on marketing and strategy. He has published five  books and over 100 articles in professional journals. He has a First Class  Honours degree from the University of Manchester and an MBA and a PhD from  Carnegie-Mellon University.	2000-07-31
US	50681244	R1V46ESCRE2MRK	0787951935	617631574	Change the World : How Ordinary People Can Achieve Extraordinary Results	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Interesting, Different and Useful	This book is an action guide providing organisation leaders, managers, parents and everyone else with the creative power and revolutionary impact to change the world. The idea that inner change makes outer change possible  has always been part of spiritual and psychological teachings. Change the  World presents eight principles that each of us can follow to make  individual and organisational change happen. These principles were inspired  by the teachings of Jesus Christ, Mahatma Gandhi and Martin Luther King,  Jr.-three historical leaders who successfully used personal change to  change the world.<br />Author Robert Quinn introduces each principle with  inspiring quotations from these three leaders. He then uses stories from  everyday life to demonstrate his message. Every thought-provoking chapter  is imbued with ideas and information that can help us step out of our old  roles, approach the world with a sense of enlightenment and adventure, and  live a more empowered and empowering life.<br />Faced with the complexities of  today's world, it's all too easy to view ourselves as passive observers or  powerless victims. We want to change our realities, but lack the motivation  to do so.<br />This book is for ordinary people who have the ordinary need to  have extraordinary impact. It is written for everyone of us who want to use  personal transformation to make a positive impact on our families,  organisations, businesses, and the world at large. Indeed, this is the  central message of the book. Ordinary people have the need to be profoundly  effective change agents, and ordinary people can be extraordinary change  agents.<br />Robert E. Quinn is the M.E. Tracy Distinguished Professor of  Organisational Behaviour and Human Resource Management at the Michigan  Business School and the author of a number of books including Deep Change  and Diagnosing and Changing Organizational Culture. His research focuses on  change.	2000-07-31
US	50681244	R2INBODIDB42FE	0471369578	232063327	The Denny's Story: How a Company in Crisis Resurrected Its Good Name and Reputation	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Not by mere spin-doctoring is a 180-degree turnaround made	In the early 1990s, the Denny's Restaurant chain was faced with charges of racial discrimination that severely damaged its image. African-American customers were denied service or asked to prepay before eating. When, in  1994, Denny's settled two class-action lawsuits for US$54 million, a  permanent shadow had been cast in its doorway.<br />Then, CEO Jim Adamson came  on board. He kept the doors open and, in time, opened the minds of  employees to a new way of doing business. He made inclusiveness and  diversity central to the company culture. Now, every employee-from waiters  to managers-receives specific training that emphasises respect for  differences among people. What it took to turn the company around was hours  and hours of hard work; thoughtful, innovative, and proactive programs; the  willingness to lead and take risks; and most of all, an absolute commitment  to do the right thing. Eventually, Fortune magazine ranked Denny's among  the top ten companies for minorities in America.<br />The Denny's Story is the  real-life account of how the company pulled itself out of a public  relations nightmare and earned back the trust of its customers. Adamson  explains the beliefs and strategies necessary for changing the heart of an  organisation in serious distress that can be applied to any business. He  provides an honest blueprint for dealing with crisis, arming the reader  with the tools needed to alter management thinking, build a strong sense of  unity, and keep employees happy in the process. Enlightening and  instructive, The Denny's Story is a remarkable example of how teamwork,  fairness, and keeping the customer satisfied will protect the good name of  your company during any crisis you may face in the future.<br />Since 1995,  Jim Adamson has been the chairman and CEO of Advantica, the parent company  of Denny's restaurant. Formerly, he was CEO of Burger King. Robert McNatt  is an editor of Business Week and a former reporter for Reuters. Rosemary  BrayMcNatt is an author who has previously worked as editor for the New  York Times Book Review.	2000-07-31
US	50681244	R2QZAJZ2ONE4CU	0471369578	232063327	The Denny's Story: How a Company in Crisis Resurrected Its Good Name and Reputation	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Cuts Closer to the Quick Than Mere Spin-Doctoring	In the early 1990s, the Denny's Restaurant chain was faced with charges of racial discrimination that severely damaged its image. African-American customers were denied service or asked to prepay before eating. When, in  1994, Denny's settled two class-action lawsuits for US$54 million, a  permanent shadow had been cast in its doorway.<br />Then, CEO Jim Adamson came  on board. He kept the doors open and, in time, opened the minds of  employees to a new way of doing business. He made inclusiveness and  diversity central to the company culture. Now, every employee-from waiters  to managers-receives specific training that emphasises respect for  differences among people. What it took to turn the company around was hours  and hours of hard work; thoughtful, innovative, and proactive programs; the  willingness to lead and take risks; and most of all, an absolute commitment  to do the right thing. Eventually, Fortune magazine ranked Denny's among  the top ten companies for minorities in America.<br />The Denny's Story is the  real-life account of how the company pulled itself out of a public  relations nightmare and earned back the trust of its customers. Adamson  explains the beliefs and strategies necessary for changing the heart of an  organisation in serious distress that can be applied to any business. He  provides an honest blueprint for dealing with crisis, arming the reader  with the tools needed to alter management thinking, build a strong sense of  unity, and keep employees happy in the process. Enlightening and  instructive, The Denny's Story is a remarkable example of how teamwork,  fairness, and keeping the customer satisfied will protect the good name of  your company during any crisis you may face in the future.<br />Since 1995,  Jim Adamson has been the chairman and CEO of Advantica, the parent company  of Denny's restaurant. Formerly, he was CEO of Burger King. Robert McNatt  is an editor of Business Week and a former reporter for Reuters. Rosemary  BrayMcNatt is an author who has previously worked as editor for the New  York Times Book Review.	2000-07-31
US	50681244	R10WXCQWBG0EZA	0471314625	897913094	Douglas McGregor, Revisited: Managing the Human Side of the Enterprise	Books	4	4	5	N	N	How to unleash the vast creative potential of employees	Douglas McGregor's seminal works, The Human Side of Enterprise and The Professional Manager, debunked Taylorism and described a revolutionary way to manage people. He was the first to apply the findings in behavioural  science to the world of business. Based on what had been learned about  human behaviour, McGregor explored the implications of managing people in a  different manner than tradition dictated.<br />Authors Gary Heil, Deborah  Stephens and Warren Bennis assert that the nature of work today makes  McGregor's ideas more important and relevant than ever before. This book  revisits in a contemporary manner the most important question facing  management today: given what we know about human nature, how should work be  managed so as to unleash the vast creative potential of human beings? It  applies McGregor's thinking to today's business world, proving again that  the human aspect of work is crucial to organisational effectiveness. It  also suggests how you can change your thinking and implement his ideas in  your own business and workplace.<br />The authors carefully outline how to put  McGregor's thinking into practice in your own business so you can devise a  better performance management system, form and supervise effective  management teams, build cooperation instead of internal competition,  cultivate an intrinsically motivating, values-driven workplace and create a  cause worthy of employee commitment.	2000-07-31
US	50681244	R19AV92T5J4KR4	047136360X	901234092	Sketches from Japan	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Cultural and Aesthetic Delight	There is a long tradition among artists and writers of maintaining a journal to record observations and impressions. Many writers use journals to write informally, often spontaneously, to describe real or imagined  people, places, and events. Artists and naturalists as well fill  sketchbooks with both words and images to help focus their observations.  Frank Ching, the author of this sketchbook, not only records the optical  reality of what is seen; he uses these drawings as a means of gaining  understanding, insight, and perhaps even inspiration. His drawings  stimulate the mind to think and can even make visible aspects that cannot  be seen by the naked eye, or captured on film by a camera.<br />Frank Ching  made most of the drawings in this sketchbook in or around O-okayama, a town  southwest of downtown Tokyo, where the Tokyo Institute of Technology is  located. The subject matter ranges from street scenes to traditional  construction details, from temples and their sacred precincts to  stimulating juxtapositions of old and new. He has successfully captured the  sights, sounds and even smells of vibrant metropolis Tokyo, enabling the  reader to feel the humid heat of the day or the cool rainy mist that fell  as he drew. In addition, there are scenes sketched during the author's  brief excursion to Kyoto and the mountain village of Takayama<br />All the  drawings were executed in a pure contour-line technique with a fountain pen  and black ink. There is a crispness and finality to an inkline that is both  daunting and exciting. The process not only fostered the careful  observation of details; it also required seeing how they fit into the  larger framework and pattern of shapes, and noting which details could be  omitted. The shape and extent of the white spaces are as important to a  composition as what is delineated.<br />Francis D.K. Ching (1943- ) completed  a month in the spring of 1990 as a visiting scholar at the Tokyo Institute  of Technology which he spent producing this sketchbook.	2000-07-31
US	50681244	R2QG4FH8CE1UCY	0471362794	727994884	The Personal Efficiency Program: How to Get Organized to Do More Work in Less Time, 2nd Edition	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Cheaper than the Program, great value for the money	Kerry Gleeson's Personal Efficiency Program is the famed system for multiplying productivity that has already revolutionised the work lives of over 300,000 people around the globe. In this book Gleeson offers an  updated and expanded edition of his classic guide to working faster and  smarter, giving you all the tools you need to get control of your  workload-and your career.<br />This second edition also includes expanded  information on conquering information overload, using the Internet to save  time and energy, and managing today's faster-paced and multi-located work  environments. Whether your goal is to be more productive, build a more  rewarding career, or just leave the office on time, The Personal Efficiency  Program can help you achieve it.<br />Kerry Gleeson is creator of the Personal  Efficiency Program, whose clients include executives from world class  companies. His work as today's premier expert on personal productivity has  been featured in leading business publications.	2000-07-31
US	50681244	REELR023V19JY	0471861618	453840901	Destination Z: The History of the Future	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Not Terribly Original But Nevertheless Immensely Useful	In recent years, businesses have learnt to accept change as a permanent factor in their lives. But in order to survive in the next century, businesses must learn to think far more radically and be willing to  accommodate yet more dramatic changes throughout their organisations. The  past is no longer a reliable indicator of the future. The face of business  today is virtually unrecognisable from that of 20 years ago. Robert Baldock  forsees an even greater degree of change in the next five years, reflecting  an acceleration in the process.<br />Innovatively written as if the author's  suppositions are already history, the book presents five very different  scenarios of the future of business, including a &quot;wild card&quot;  which pushes predictions of the future to the boundaries of plausibility.  Five very different scenarios-and yet elements of them are bound to  transpire. Thinking about these outcomes can help managers to thrive in the  emerging world of the future. To point you towards your own action plan the  final chapter draws together lessons of the five scenarios and harnesses  them into reliable strategies which will serve in any eventuality.<br />If  your role is in management you must prepare for the unpredictable. Read  this book before the future arrives.<br />Robert Baldock (1955- ) was, until  recently, a global managing partner in Anderson Consulting, the management  and technology consultancy, responsible for eCommerce, Customer  Relationship Management and Mergers and Acquisitions within the Financial  Services Industry. He led a team within Andersen's global financial  services practice in developing a set of scenarios for the future of the  financial services industry as well as an initiative looking at the future  shape of the consumer serving industries. He is the author of The Last Days  of the Giants?.	2000-07-31
US	50681244	R2L2FB7ZZRHXOH	0471370584	679382298	Getting Your 15 Minutes of Fame and More!: A Guide to Guaranteeing Your Business Success	Books	5	2	3	N	N	How to get squarely in the public spotlight, and stay there	With this book, public relations guru Edward Segal does for you what's he's done for more than 500 high-profile clients nationwide: he helps you achieve and manage the fame you crave and deserve. In 87 lively, bite-sized  chapters-peppered with revealing anecdotes about and quotes from notables  in the worlds of business, high technology, entertainment, sports, and  more-Segal arms you with proven tools.<br />These techniques will get your  company, organisation, or self squarely in the public spotlight, and  staying there. Throughout the book, you'll also find instructive, often  hilarious &quot;Hall of Fame/Hall of Shame&quot; accounts of some of the  most successful and disastrous uses of these techniques.<br />Edward Segal is  president of his own full-service public relations agency, Edward Segal  Communications, based in Washington, DC. He is one of North America's most  well-known PR experts, proving public relations counsel to Fortune 500  companies, government agencies and trade associations. His articles have  appeared in the Washington Post, the New York Times and the Wall Street  Journal.	2000-07-31
US	50681244	R19FKD9SAC4WMN	1853833347	428661079	The Commercial Use of Biodiversity: Access to Genetic Resources and Benefit Sharing	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Definitive &amp; Seminal Work	Biodiversity and the genetic material it contains are now recognized to be among the world's most valuable resources. Access to genetic resources and their commercial development involve a wide range of parties such as  conservation and research institutes, local communities, government  agencies and companies. Equitable partnerships are not only crucial to  conservation and economic development, but are also in the interest of  business and often required by law.<br />The Convention on Biological  Diversity (CBD) has brought a long overdue international focus and control  on the access to, and use of, genetic resources. As the details and  consequences of the CBD are worked out by many different bodies, there has  been much confusion. For anyone wanting information about the implications  of the CBD for their business, research or livelihood, the data are  scattered in a confusing array of sources. This book brings this subject  together in such a thorough way that it will be welcomed by many people. In  this authoritative and comprehensive volume the authors explain the  provisions of the CBD on access and benefit-sharing, the effect of national  laws to implement these, and aspects of typical contracts for the transfer  of materials. They provide a unique sector-by-sector analysis of how  genetic resources are used, the scientific, technological and regulatory  trends and the different markets in pharmaceuticals, botanical medicines,  crop development, horticulture, crop protection, biotechnology (in fields  other than healthcare and agriculture) and personal care and cosmetics  products. The chapters on each sector are presented in a balanced way  because of the extensive consultations that the authors held with  representatives of each industry discussed.<br />Of special to Malaysians is  the description of the joint venture between a pharmaceutical company based  in Illinois, Medichem Research Inc, and the State Government of Sarawak to  develop anti-HIV Calanolide compounds derived from Calophyllum lanigerum, a  plant found in Sarawak.<br />This will be an essential sourcebook for all  those in the commercial chain, from raw material collection to product  discovery, development and marketing, for governments and policy-makers  drafting laws on access and for all the institutions, communities and  individuals involved in the conservation, use study and commercialization  of genetic resources. It is an invaluable resource to policy makers,  organizations studying and creating uses of genetic resources and the  companies that wish to develop them. This book will be widely used to help  governments draw up more practical laws and to help industrial companies to  ensure the participation of and reasonable compensation for those countries  who possess and provide access to so much biodiversity, while at the same  time helping industries to avoid legal risks. This book will also be  invaluable to universities, research institutes and botanic gardens as we  work out the new role that has been placed upon us since the CBD was  ratified, that of acting as intermediaries between biodiverse countries and  would-be users of their genetic resources.<br />Kerry ten Kate is Head of the  Convention on Biological Diversity Unit at the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew.  Formerly a practising barrister, and member of the Secretariat of the  United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED) during the  preparations for the 1992 Rio Earth Summit, she is now responsible for  coordinating the design and implementation of Kew's policies in response to  the CBD. She holds an MA in law from Oxford University. Susan A. Laird is  an independent consultant with a focus on the commercial and cultural  context of biodiversity and forest conservation. She has conducted research  and provided advice on access and benefit-sharing issues for a range of  NGOs, governments, research institutes, and community groups, most recently  in Cameroon andMalaysia. She received an MSc in Forestry from Oxford  University.	2000-07-31
US	50681244	RG7YGH5ZJOC3G	0471354872	151638181	The Book of Management Wisdom: Classic Writings by Legendary Managers	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Unique resource offering timeless wisdom &amp; practical advice	The Book of Management Wisdom is a unique resource offering insight into how legendary business managers have triumphed over the conflicts, challenges, and dilemmas that come with the territory. Never before have  the deepest insights of such a large and diverse group of brilliant  managers been collected into a single informative and inspiring  volume.<br />This volume brings together the essays and speeches of more than  fifty of the most successful business managers of all time and presents  their ideas, tips, and management secrets in their own words. Drawing on  their own personal experiences, these world-class managers offer a range of  practical advice, case studies, humorous anecdotes, and management  philosophy. Major business figures reveal fascinating details of their  characters and personalities as they educate, enlighten, and entertain you  with their often surprising views on the most compelling issues faced by  managers in every corner of the business world.<br />Offering timeless wisdom  and practical advice from the most successful business managers ever, The  Book of Management Wisdom is must reading for managers at every level, from  the junior executive cubicle to the presidential suite.<br />Peter Krass, a  freelance writer and editor who lives in New Hampshire, is the editor of  all five volumes in Wiley's Wisdom series. He has contributed extensively  to Investor's Business Daily.	2000-07-31
US	50681244	R1RJC7XJM7WYP5	0471357111	432465957	Making the Cisco Connection: The Story Behind the Real Internet Superpower	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Growing Pains in Silicon Valley, from ugly duckling to swan	Cisco Systems is known among the information technology elite as one of the most successful companies to emerge from Silicon Valley in many years. Just as Intel and Microsoft soared to lofty heights with the rise of the  personal computer, Cisco Systems is flying high on the success of the  Internet. The company, which make routers, black boxes that route  information through a network-acting as a sort of data traffic light-has  captured 80% of the market for routers used as the backbone of the  Internet.<br />The Cisco legend is the tale of two sweethearts at Stanford  University in the late 1970s. Sandra Lerner of the Stanford University  Business School and Leonard Bosack of the computer science department  wanted to send love letters to each other via email, but their respective  departments used different computer networks. So Len and Sandy invented the  router. Then, they conceived Cisco Systems. The router made Cisco the  fastest-growing company ever. In 1999, a mere 15 years after its founding,  Cisco was worth US$200 billion.<br />This book takes an in-depth look at one  of the great success stories of the Internet age. If you like high tech  business books, it doesn't get much better than this.	2000-07-31
US	50681244	R1C49EN01I1U0A	0471303712	204236473	The World in 1800	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Understand the Present Through the Past	In the year 1800 most of the world's population scratched out a living in the countryside while a few merchants in the cities hawked their wares in open-air market stalls. The nobles, on the other hand, led lives of opulent  leisure. This scenario had not changed from the days of their ancestors.  Yet, there were unmistakable signs that all this would soon change forever.  The seeds of republicanism were spreading in Europe while the United States  was proving to the world the feasibility of a government of, by and for the  people. France and England had established global empire-building  strategies. Thus, the year 1800 saw the world suddenly enmeshed in a web of  mercantilism, war, and political intrigue. In was in such an atmosphere  that this pivotal moment in world history heralded the dawn of the modern  era.<br />In this compelling volume renowned historian Olivier Bernier  provides us with a riveting chronicle of that time, so full of historical  lessons for us as we embark upon the new millennium. The scope of the book  is truly global covering Europe's bloodstained landscape, the nascent  United States, the Spanish and Portuguese dominions of Central and South  America, the Gold Coast of Africa, British India and the Forbidden City of  China. This journey around the world provides a finely textured portrait of  civilisation at the dawn of the modern era while shedding new light on the  revolutionary trends that were taking shape in the arts, architecture,  science, and philosophy.<br />Offering a spellbinding account of one of the  most momentous chapters in the story of civilization, The World in 1800  makes irresistible reading for scholars and history buffs alike.<br />Educated  in Paris, at Harvard and at New York University, Olivier Bernier is the  author of several books on history. He has also taught art history and is  widely acclaimed for his lectures at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New  York City.	2000-07-31
US	50681244	RP1TUC4HP3YXL	0471360082	705186649	The Maslow Business Reader	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Excellent Maslow primer for business &amp; management students	This collection assembles Abraham Maslow's most instructive, intuitive thoughts and essays into one important volume. Gleaned from the wealth of behavioural research and analysis Dr Maslow left upon his death in 1970,  the selections reveal a man comfortable with his position in history,  tireless in his efforts to better understand what truly makes humans strive  to reach their potential, and gifted in his ability to translate the most  profound concepts and realities into entertaining, thought-provoking  prose.<br />The timeless ideas of Maslow resonate with unimpeachable insight  and clarity. Maslow innately understood that the goals and passions that so  impact humans in their everyday life could be just as applicable in the  work environment. <br />Editor Deborah C. Stephens introduces Maslow's  published and unpublished works to readers unfamiliar to Maslow's  management breakthroughs. From recognising and warning against management's  natural progression to mechanise the human organisation to brilliant  discussions of human motivation, Maslow never fails to instantly recognise  the heart and soul of each encounter and provide direct, across-the-board  solutions.<br />This book provides Maslow's outlook on management and  leadership issues such as customer loyalty, entrepreneurship, and the  importance of communication. Learn ways to build a work environment  conducive to creativity, innovation, and maximised individual contributions  as well as techniques for finding comfort in change and ambiguity, and  using them to spur creativity and innovation.<br />The late Abraham Harold  Maslow is still regarded as the world's most widely renowned, articulate  and insightful authority on human behaviour and motivation. Dr Maslow has  contributed seminal works to the literature of business, applying his ideas  on human behaviour, personality, and motivation to the workforce. Deborah  Collins Stephens is a cofounder of the Centre for Innovative Leadership.  She is the coauthor of One Size Fits One and Douglas McGregor, Revisited  and a collaborator on Maslow on Management.	2000-07-31
US	50681244	R4GSA9JXS99G1	0471372471	563425110	The Ruthless Leader: Three Classics of Strategy and Power	Books	5	8	9	N	N	3 Classics in 1 Book, Great Value	Nicolo Machiavelli's The Prince is a fifteenth-century Florentine philosopher-satirist's essay on how to be an effective potentate. Alistair McAlpine's The Servant contains political advice from a Thatcherite  politician whilst Sun Tzu's The Art of War is a fifth-century B.C. Chinese  general's treatise on military strategy. The combination of these three  works makes a devastating statement about human nature. <br />Each was written  by an undeniably perceptive observer of humanity, and each offers  unvarnished truths about human nature, especially as it expresses itself in  an organisation-whether it be political, military, or corporate. Each  classic portrays timeless principles for exploiting human foibles in order  to promote one's own self-interest, while at the same time doing what is  best for the organisational bottom line.<br />They are unrivalled sources for  anyone who seeks to understand the elaborate, often brutal, rituals of  strategic conduct in any day and age. As such, these texts contain valuable  lessons to a businessman trying to get ahead in today's volatile,  globalised business world. Call them ruthless or simply pragmatic, but  these classics comprise an indispensable survival guide for anyone who  wants to swim with the sharks without being eaten alive.	2000-07-31
US	50681244	R3EAZEJ68RDSFI	0471352284	600536469	The Average Family's Guide to Financial Freedom How You can Save a Small Fortune on a Modest Income	Books	3	7	15	N	N	Of passing relevance to non-US residents	Like most American married couples with children, the authors found themselves increasingly stressed by their financial responsibilities, with no real job security, their standard of living in constant jeopardy, and  little promise of ever having enough time for their children or each other.  The realisation that their family's financial future was entirely dependent  on benevolent employers and a lifetime of full-time work was a  disheartening condition they wanted to change-quickly.<br />Unlike most  Americans, in eight short years, the Tooheys managed to save nearly half  their modest income while adding almost US$500,000 to their net worth. They  now have enough money to cover most expenses for the rest of their  lives-even if they never earn another paycheque. The Tooheys do not claim  that this was easy, but it was doable. And it can be for you, too. They do  not propose that you implement extreme changes or even suffer to get there.  In fact, the point of this book is to provide strategies to achieve  financial independence without earning more money, relocating, or changing  jobs. Theirs is a moderate, non-threatening approach.<br />This book is  understandable, informal, and conversational. It will challenge you to  analyse how you do things and make creative adjustments so you can build  assets without suffering. Because you aren't paid a lot, you simply can't  afford to make big mistakes with your money, so you need to keep your head  in the game and make smart choices. Learning, thoughtful reflection, and  creativity lead to smart decisions and financial freedom without suffering.  Anyone can just stop spending their income and pile up money, but it takes  careful planning and creativity to build assets while still enjoying life.  Learn how to build a large nest egg for your family, do it fast and  accomplish it without suffering. This book will show the average family the  way to financial freedom.<br />Bill Toohey (1952- ) and Mary Toohey (1953- )  lecture widely and have written several magazine articles on their sound  money strategies. They were named among the &quot;Best Personal Finance  Managers in America&quot; by Money magazine for the strategies for  financial independence outlined in this book. Bill is a vocational  rehabilitation counsellor, and Mary is an office manager. The couple live  in Iowa and have three children.	2000-07-31
US	50681244	R1AZ8L7B5VI1YM	0787952001	813726321	China's Futures	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Scenario Planning at Work on China	China is the world's third largest economy and America's biggest trading partner in Asia. The path China takes over the coming decades will have a profound impact on business and the economy all around the world. The  authors of this book are neither futurists nor experts on China, but  practitioners of the art of scenario planning. <br />In this book, Ogilvy and  Schwartz draw on a range of studies conducted for companies anxious to  understand the future consequences of the decisions they're making today  with respect to China. They present three versions of what China's future  might look like and what that will mean for the governments and companies  that will be doing business with or in China. Their scenarios are in an  absorbing narrative form, like histories written twenty years from now.  They explain the predetermined elements, assumptions, and variables that  underlie each scenario. They also draw implications and make suggestions  about how companies can use each scenario to plan business strategy.<br />The  insights into China's future provided in this book will help global  business managers, strategists, diplomats and government policy makers  prepare for what many predict will be the Asian Century.<br />James A. Ogilvy  and Peter Schwartz (1946- ) are partners in Global Business Network, a  consulting and research firm. They are responsible for the widespread use  of scenario planning in business, a process-blending research, trend  analysis and well-tutored imagination-that they pioneered in the early  1990s and which Schwartz made popular through his book The Art of the Long  View. Joe Flower is a professional writer in San Francisco.<br />See also my  review of THE NEW SILK ROAD: Secrets of Doing Business in China Today by  John B. Stuttard.	2000-07-31
US	50681244	R1WQ6OECSHBRAG	0471347795	678248041	The Good, the Bad, and Your Business: Choosing Right When Ethical Dilemmas Pull You Apart	Books	5	8	12	N	N	Business Ethics Made Readable, &amp; Doable!	Every day, businessmen are faced with tough ethical decisions that keep even the most seasoned managers tossing and turning at night. You can rest assured that at some point in your career you'll be faced with making, or  witness the making of, an ethical decision-and the action you take will not  only define you, but also what your company stands for.<br />The pressure to  make the right choices is incredible; indecision or one small misstep can  be the kiss of death in today's highly competitive, fast-moving economy.  Productivity can drop off, employee morale can plummet, dissatisfied  customers can flee, and your competitor may take a large bite out of your  profits-while the dilemma remains unresolved.<br />Without being preachy or  theoretical, The Good, The Bad and Your Business shows companies how to run  more efficiently by improving their navigation of everyday moral business  dilemmas. Author and journalist Jeffrey L. Seglin reveals how otherwise  decent people can make mistakes and find themselves in serious ethical  trouble. His practical approach uses real-life examples to help you see the  difference between a &quot;grey area&quot; and outright misdeed so you can  act faster when faced with such ethical decisions. He also gives you the  tools to help you reach your own decisions.<br />You'll also discover the  common misperceptions about ethics in business and learn how to define your  &quot;comfort&quot; level-so that you can conduct business knowing you've  made thoughtful decisions with full knowledge of the possible  consequences.<br />Jeffrey L. Seglin (1956- ) is an Editor-at-Large at Inc.  magazine and a columnist of the Sunday New York Times business section. He  is also an assistant professor at Emerson College.	2000-07-31
US	50681244	RGWU2RL6S8I2V	041522280X	1220570	Thinking From A to Z	Books	5	12	13	N	N	More than Just a Glorified Glossary	Being able to spot poor reasoning and diversionary tactics such as fallacies, gobbledegook, jargon, pseudo-profundity and smokescreens will put more clout behind your arguments and sharpen your thinking. As an  introduction to critical thinking, this delightfully concise little book  provides some of the basic tools for clear thinking on any issue. The  techniques and topics discussed are transferable and can be applied to any  area in which clear thought is required: they have direct applications in  most academic disciplines and in any facet of life in which people present  reasons and evidence in support of conclusions.<br />Now in its second  edition, this book is a set text for the Open University A211 Philosophy  and the Human Situation course. It will give you the power to tell a good  from a bad argument. Using witty and topical examples, author Nigel  Warburton will enable you to distinguish with confidence between a red  herring and a straw man. This new edition updates the whole text and  includes many new entries, all listed in alphabetical order. However, the  next edition should include the following suggested entries: * ergo et sum  * I think, therefore I am * Rene Descartes * logic  * Betrand Russell *  lateral thinking * Six Thinking Hats * tautology<br />Nigel Warburton is the  author of Philosophy: The Basics, Philosophy: The Classics, and editor of  Philosophy: Basic Readings (all published by Routledge).	2000-07-31
US	50681244	R3CLXLNGEVEC5Q	0471297135	316384458	High Noon: The Inside Story of Scott McNealy and the Rise of Sun Microsystems	Books	5	5	11	N	N	Insider�s view of Sun Microsystems &amp; Scott McNealy	High Noon reveals the inside story of a world-class IT company. It provides an insider's view at the business strategies of Sun Microsystems and its gutsy leader, CEO Scott McNealy. Sun Microsystems (creators of the  Java programming language) is now in a position to challenge high-tech's  most powerful players over the future of computing. This is due in large  part to its practical, ambitious, and forward-looking CEO. <br />High Noon is  a thorough case study of this successful company, from its birth as the  brainchild of Indian immigrant Vinod Khosla in 1982, through its rise under  McNealy's brash and unconventional methods, to its current battle with  Microsoft, which will undoubtedly change the landscape of the computer  industry. This entertaining and instructive book reveals the  behind-the-scenes maneuverings of McNealy and Sun, with candid interviews  from the key players that provide insight into the inner workings of the  high-tech industry.<br />High Noon will appeal to managers interested in  applying Sun's innovative tactics to their own companies, as well as anyone  intrigued by the compelling success story of this unique Silicon Valley  company.<br />Karen Southwick of San Francisco, California has been writing  about technology and Silicon Valley for more than a decade, first with San  Francisco Chronicle, then Upside magazine and most recently, Forbes ASAP.  She also authored Silicon Gold Rush.	2000-07-31
US	50681244	R2NUH9JSJH2K9C	0471835765	338680554	Branding in Asia: The Creation, Development, and Management of Asian Brands for the Global Market	Books	5	2	2	N	N	FIRST BOOK TO SPECIFICALLY ADDRESS BRANDING IN ASIA	One of the ways to achieve sustainable growth in any market is a recognisable brand name. While many Western companies have successfully developed international brands, Asian companies have been slow to follow  suit. How is it that Asia, a region that has such high brand appreciation,  produces so few international brands of its own? <br />In this groundbreaking  book, Asia's leading brand architect addresses this unusual situation,  explains the fundamentals of branding and shows how companies can use them  to achieve outstanding performance. Containing over 20 case studies of  leading Asian and Western brands, this book is packed with illustrative  examples, advice and exercises. <br />Branding in Asia is an invaluable book  that is a must for anyone responsible for business growth in the 21st  century.<br />Dr Paul Temporal is Asia's leading expert on brand creation,  development and management, having lived in the region for over 14 years.  He has worked with leading companies and governments, and is well known his  results-oriented and hands-on approach. He is the author of Corporate  Charisma.	2000-07-31
US	50681244	R346OP8ODVNU5K	0471377228	470849379	The New Silk Road: Secrets of Business Success in China Today	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Insider�s View of Doing Business in China	China has made such enormous strides towards liberalising its economy over the past decade that it is now the world's second largest recipient of foreign investment after the United States. Yet, in some very important  ways, Chinese customs, practices, and values remain alien to Western  business thinking and practice as they ever were. As many a hapless  expatriate manager has discovered to their cost, gaining a foothold in the  vast Chinese market can be an uphill battle on a slippery slope of  tradition, conflicting objectives, bureaucratic wrangling, ever-shifting  laws and regulations, and regional differences. Despite this, as the  stories chronicled in this insider's guide to doing business in China  demonstrate, it is a battle that can be and is being won.<br />The New Silk  Road is based on extensive interviews conducted by the author with business  leaders who have many years of experience with the country. It features a  series of lively narratives in which these experts share their insights  into and observations of all the important aspects of doing business in  China. These are important lessons they've learned about everything from  making sense of, and marketing to, the patchwork of striking different  regions that make up China, to building trust and negotiating with the  Chinese.<br />This long-awaited insider's view of doing business in China  informs you of the pitfalls and tells you what you need to know to succeed  in the twenty-first century's great new business frontier.<br />John B.  Stuttard is a Senior Partner in PricewaterhouseCoopers. From 1994 to 1999,  he was Chairman and CEO of PricewaterhouseCoopers China, operating in  Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Shenzhen and Dalian. In his 32-year career  with PricewaterhouseCoopers, he has also worked with the UK Government's  Cabinet Office think tank advising on privatisation, and for services to  Finnish industry was made a Knight First Class of the Order of the Lion of  Finland.<br />See also my review of: CHINA'S FUTURES Scenarios for the World's  Fasting Growing Economy, Ecology, and Society James Ogilvy &amp; Peter  Schwartz with Joe Flower Jossey-Bass Publishers, 2000 ISBN 0-7879-5200-1	2000-07-31
US	50681244	R3CHFJGW51VM2T	1853833991	363082630	Hijacking Environmentalism: Corporate Responses to Sustainable Development	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent	Hijacking Environmentalism exposes the lack of commitment from business and industry to the challenge of sustainable development. Richard Welford demonstrates how modern business has ignored-even usurped-the wider  ecological, ethical and social aspects of sustainable development. Industry  has, in effect, hijacked the more radical environmental debate by taking it  out of its traditional discourse, and placing it in a liberal-productivist  frame of reference. <br />Welford examines the ways in which business  executives have reconstructed the environmental agenda to pander to their  own purposes. He then shows how businesses continue to operate outside the  ecological carrying capacity of the environment, and that there remain  strong underlying tensions involving conflicts between sustainable  development and international trade. He shows how too much emphasis on  hierarchical organizational structures stifle participation inside the  organization.<br />The final part of the book examines the way forward for the  more sustainable business. It presents new models of the sustainable  organization which place greater emphasis on issues such as equity and  ethics. It seeks an ecological awakening amongst business leaders and  concludes with a call for more critical research on business activities,  abandoning both the restrictive positivist and traditional interpretive  paradigms of analysis. <br />The contributions in this book are best read as a  set of related essays and each chapter can easily be read and understood in  isolation. Hijacking Environmentalism is recommended for business leaders,  management students and activists with environmental NGOs.<br />Richard  Welford is Professor of Corporate Environmental Management and Director of  the Centre for Corporate Environmental Management at the Huddersfield  University Business School. He is also Professor of Sustainable Management  at the Norwegian School of Management and a Director of ERP Environment. He  isco-editor of The Earthscan Reader in Business and the Environment  (1996), editor of Corporate Environmental Management 1 (1996), Corporate  Environmental Management 2 (1997), and editor of the journal, Business  Strategy and the Environment.	2000-07-31
US	50681244	R3F3NI84MNM382	047132969X	111182027	The Accelerating Universe: Infinite Expansion, the Cosmological Constant, and the Beauty of the Cosmos (Wiley Popular Science)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Is Mario Livio the Copernicus of the New Millennium?	In one of the most surprising and important discoveries in cosmology of the century, astronomers recently found that the universe may be expanding at an ever-increasing-rather than gradually decreasing-rate. This startling  discovery has ignited a new revolution in cosmology in which scientists are  wrestling anew with the most fundamental questions and revisiting ideas  that were dismissed long ago.<br />The discovery that the expansion of the  universe appears in fact to be speeding up-and therefore that the universe  will keep expanding faster and faster for infinity-is troubling as it  threatens the long-cherished belief that the fundamental laws governing the  cosmos are in themselves perfectly balanced and  &quot;beautiful.&quot;<br />What can explain this accelerated expansion? Does  the universe have much less mass than originally thought? Is there some  exotic unknown force, or new kind of energy, causing acceleration? Was  Einstein's &quot;greatest blunder&quot;-his idea of a Cosmological  Constant-the right idea after all? What will the ultimate fate of the  universe be?<br />In an entertaining and lively exploration of the answers to  all these questions, Mario Livio introduces readers to the &quot;old  cosmology&quot; offering lucid explanations of all the key concepts and  theoretical ideas pertaining to the Beauty of the Cosmos. He then presents  all of the ideas now being explored by cosmologists in the &quot;new  cosmology&quot; as they come to grips with the &quot;ugly&quot; discovery  of acceleration. <br />Mario Livio, PhD, is the head of the science programme  at the Space Science Institute, which conducts the scientific program of  the Hubble Space Telescope. A world-recognised expert on astrophysics, he  has published over 300 scientific papers and has lectured to the public  about discoveries in astronomy and cosmology all across the globe.	2000-07-31
US	50681244	R2Y5LJV4S807TI	0787951625	345411014	What's The Use of Lectures?	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Definitive Pedagogical Guide to Lecturing	When this book was first published in 1971, the first edition sold out in ten weeks. Long regarded as a classic on the topic of lecturing, this book is an indispensable manual for anyone who aspires to be a skilled lecturer  and teacher. It examines the nature of teaching and learning in a classroom  lecture-describing how students learn, how much knowledge they retain, and  how to enhance their attention and motivation. <br />Bligh offers a wealth of  practical suggestions for making lectures more engaging and effective.  Topics include taking notes, using handouts, practising different formats  and styles, obtaining feedback, overcoming difficulties, evaluating the  lecture, and testing alternative methods when lecturing is not  adequate.<br />Written in an accessible and helpful style, this very readable  book is a source of great insight for people who lecture-experienced or  not. Teachers at every level will find straightforward and detailed  practical advice to help improve their lectures. However, the author  reminds us that, like musical composition and performance, lecturing is an  art. Skill is acquired by practice rather than by reading books. Yet just  as the budding composer may wish to study forms of composition known to  have been successful, but later disregard them, so new lecturers may wish  it worthwhile to consider the findings of research into lecturing before  developing their own style.<br />Donald A. Bligh was a pioneer in university  staff development when he joined London University's Teaching Methods Unit  in 1970. He was the first professor and director of continuing education at  the University of Dundee (1985-1989) and is now honorary research fellow in  computer science at Exeter University.	2000-07-31
US	50681244	R16FZX6KFMR8TQ	0471321745	167148012	The Bit and the Pendulum: From Quantum Computing to M Theory- The New Physics of Information	Books	5	13	16	N	N	The Frontiers of Info Science at its Weird &amp; Wonderful Best!	In this ground-breaking book, acclaimed science journalist Tom Siegfried introduces readers to the frontiers of the radical new physics of information, and to the host of amazing discoveries it is inspiring-from  the development of a stunning new breed of quantum computers, to methods  for writing supersecure codes, to revealing insights into the elaborate  computer-like workings of the cell and resolving long-standing mysteries  about the inner workings of black holes and how the universe evolved.<br />The  revolutionary insight central to all of this new science is that the most  fundamental constituents of matter are not atoms, or even subatomic  particles, but &quot;bits,&quot; the fundamental units of information.  Scientists are exploring an all-encompassing new path towards understanding  life, physics, and existence. The path leads through all of nature, from  the interior of cells to inside black holes. The conclusion is always the  same: the world is made of information.<br />Siegfried provides lucid and  entertaining explanations of the latest theories in quantum physics and how  they are being applied by quantum cryptographers to create secret codes  that are absolutely unbreakable. We learn how the mind-boggling physics of  &quot;reversible logic&quot; can recapture lost information and are  introduced to the controversy over M Theory, which some scientists argue is  the long-sought &quot;Theory of Everything.&quot;<br />This books offers the  lay reader an engaging, fast-paced introduction to a fundamentally new way  of seeing the world and an amazing glimpse into many of the hottest areas  of scientific endeavour today.<br />Tom Siegfried is the science editor of the  Dallas Morning News. He is the recipient of the American Association for  the Advancement of Science's Westinghouse Award for science journalism.	2000-07-31
US	50681244	R3V91RKD5KJPAP	078794694X	332735755	Growing Pains : Transitioning from an Entrepreneurship to a Professionally Managed Firm	Books	5	11	15	N	N	Easing by understanding the trauma of corporate adolescence	Many entrepreneurs are unprepared for the rigorous organisational demands of rapid growth. As firms mature, the loose, informal management styles that drove them to success become inadequate. Original systems are  strained, profits decline, and founders are ousted to make room for more  experienced managers.<br />Drawing on the case studies of recent success  stories, the authors show entrepreneurs how to make the successful  transition from humble start-up to professionally managed firm without  sacrificing the unique spirit that inspired the company in the first place.  They provide readers with a framework they can use to evaluate their firm's  growth objectively, anticipate problems, pinpoint solutions, and plan  strategies that will move their company towards desired goals. They outline  the seven predictable stages of organisational growth and identify what  must be accomplished in each stage to ensure the company's continued  healthy development.<br />Growing Pains provides the entrepreneur with many  proven principles of professional management, offering guidance in such key  areas as strategic planning, organisational structure, management  development, organisational control, leadership, and corporate culture  management. Thoroughly updated to address the realities of today's business  environment, this book will help company founders deal with the personal  and professional challenges they must confront as they transform their  companies into professionally managed firms.<br />Eric G. Flamholtz is  professor of management at UCLA's Anderson Graduate School of Management  and president of Management Systems Consulting Corporation, which he  cofounded in 1978. The author of more than one hundred articles and  chapters on a variety of management topics, Flamholtz has also published  four books. Yvonne Randle is lecturer at UCLA's Anderson Graduate School of  Management's entrepreneurial studies program and vice president of  Management Systems Consulting Corporation where she has been a consultant  since 1983. She is the author of two books and numerous articles on  increasing organisational effectiveness.<br />See also my review of: MAKING  THE CISCO CONNECTION: The Story Behind the Real Internet Superpower David  Bunnell with Adam Brate John Wiley &amp; Sons, 2000 ISBN 0-471-35711-1	2000-07-31
US	50681244	R2IA1RM2KG4URG	0465043976	589829762	Circumcision: A History Of The World's Most Controversial Surgery	Books	5	40	42	N	N	Too Late for Some But Maybe Not for Many, Snips at Ignorance	You might think that the most common surgery in the United States would also be the least controversial-an operation whose medical necessity and benefits have proved beyond question. And you would be wrong. As this  fascinating history of that procedure makes clear, circumcision is rooted  not in medical science, but in the deepest recesses of religion and  culture. <br />Circumcision is performed on more than one million infant and  prepubescent boys around the world every year. In America, even though a  growing number of physicians dispute its benefits, circumcision remains the  most frequently performed elective surgical procedure. In 1995, 64.1% of US  male newborns were circumcised-yet there is no proven medical benefit to  this practice on normal infants. This book, by medical historian David L.  Gollahar presents a fascinating history of this controversial practice and  why it has persisted over time through vastly different social  contexts.<br />As this book shows, the removal of genital foreskin has a long  and varied history: from the extraordinarily painful initiation rite of the  ancient Egyptians, through the Hebrew purification ritual, through its use  by nineteen-century doctors as prevention for ailments including  bedwetting, paralysis, syphilis, and epilepsy, to the present persistence  of female circumcision in African cultures. Gollaher also addresses the  current controversy over the procedure's continuance, and those opposing  routine circumcision will find support here.<br />Gollaher concludes that  &quot;if male circumcision were confined to developing nations,&quot;  similar to the status of female circumcision, &quot;it would by now have  emerged as an international cause célèbre.&quot;<br />David L. Gollaher (1949-  )  is President and CEO of the California Healthcare Institute, a statewide  public policy research and advocacy institute. He holds a PhD in History  from Harvard and has served on the facilities of San Diego State  University's Graduate School of Public Health and the University of  California, San Diego.	2000-07-31
US	50681244	R2I7MDZI7HIOU0	0471360058	660799247	Market Research Matters: Tools and Techniques for Aligning Your Business	Books	5	5	9	N	N	How to get excellent marketing insight through research	When it comes to planning a winning corporate strategy, many business leaders fail to consider market research. This is a critical mistake. Done correctly and with creativity, market research can provide real value by  serving as the radar that will alert your business to the perils-and  opportunities-that lie ahead.<br />Excellent marketing insight is the edge  that differentiates business winners from losers. It can help your company  in its effort to make-not merely serve-markets. Businesses that  successfully anticipate major marketplace shifts reap rewards of legendary  proportions. Few do. Less dramatic but equally important is the opportunity  to improve the understanding of customer behaviour, which can grow profits  daily. Businesses should and can do better at this and this book will show  you how.<br />Market research can and should be a backbone of any business  strategy. It should move beyond its traditional and limited  &quot;number-crunching&quot; function to its proper place as a platform for  enlightening decision making.<br />Market Research Matters provides you with  the tools to better align your company's market research and business  forecast efforts to the overall business strategy and operations. It  polishes traditional market research techniques and reveals new ones that  can help any company avoid the pitfalls of focusing only on the present.  Companies need to seize the opportunities that an uncertain future has to  offer. You need insight into the dynamics of the marketplace to act in  anticipation of what might happen. This book will help you make certain  your business is up to the challenge of becoming a truly future-focused  business.<br />Robert Duboff is Partner and the Director of National Marketing  for Ernst &amp; Young. Duboff was previously vice president at Mercer  Management Consulting, where he spent over twenty years helping clients  achieve their marketing goals. He has written numerous papers for a number  of managementjournals. Jim Spaeth is President of the Advertising Research  Foundation.	2000-07-31
US	50681244	R31BCG18ID0ISG	0130653500	953023948	Marketing Management and Strategy	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Meet customers' needs more effectively than the competition	This book explores the role of marketing in the modern enterprise, presenting an up-to-date review of the most important concepts and techniques that managers need in order to analyse today's markets and to  capitalise on the opportunities that are continually emerging. Marketing is  the single most important determinant of success as the ability to  satisfy-or delight-customers is the only determinant of an enterprise's  ability to generate revenues. No enterprise exists for its own sake but  rather its mission is to meet the needs of those customers it was created  to serve.<br />Thus, marketing, according to author Peter Doyle, is the  philosophy of management that recognises that the success of the enterprise  is only sustainable if it can organise to meet the current and prospective  needs of customers more effectively than the competition. Marketing tries  to get the enterprise to develop and offer what the customer will find of  real value. In this way, marketing seeks to build long-term, mutually  beneficial partnerships between the enterprise and its customers.<br />This  innovative book is for senior managers and those taking advanced marketing  courses on MBA, CIM and similar post-experience programmes. It focuses on  strategic planning and decision making in today's rapidly changing and  highly competitive global markets.<br />Peter Doyle is Professor of Marketing  and Strategic Management at the University of Warwick, where he heads both  the executive and MBA programmes. He has previously held positions at  INSEAD, London Business School, Bradford University, Stanford and the  University of Hawaii. He is one of the world's leading academics and an  experienced consultant on marketing and strategy. He has published five  books and over 100 articles in professional journals. He has a First Class  Honours degree from the University of Manchester and an MBA and a PhD from  Carnegie-Mellon University.	2000-07-31
US	50681244	R2UFT939G3Z0NM	0814404847	506617990	Total Exposure: Controlling Your Company's Image in the Glare of the Business Media Explosion	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Business news is hot news!	Once a stodgy and sleepy thing, today's business news media is anything but fueled by a national obsession for investing. Business news has become the hottest media sector in America and the world. Which is wonderful news  for companies that can get their intended message across, and seriously bad  news for those that can't. They risk being ignored, misrepresented,  or-worst of all-left vulnerable to damaging hearsay and rumour. <br />The rise  of the business news media, the emergence of the consumer-investor, and the  technological developments that have opened up the world into a 24  hours-a-day, 7 days-a-week superstore of information and opinion have  occurred almost overnight. So swift are the changes that even companies  considered to be leaders in communications are scrambling to keep up.  Consumers of news, too, are overwhelmed with information overload,  uncertain about what's reliable and what's not. And yes, even the media are  having difficulty keeping up with its own growth in terms of finding talent  to keep the big new media pipeline full of credible and useful information  and insight. Everyone on all sides of the new media equation is struggling  to keep pace.<br />This book is for those who want to understand more about  the increasing dynamic relationship between companies and the news media  that covers them. A company that blames the news media for creating or  contributing to its problems is misleading itself. Similarly, a reporter  who blames a company for trying to promote or protect itself through public  relations-and thereby somehow &quot;obscuring truth&quot;-is failing to  understand that a company's main reasons for being are to survive and  succeed, not cater to the news media's agenda.<br />In between what a company  wants and what a reporter wants lies the issue that is the focus of this  book. It is, quite simply, a knowledge gap. Many companies, particularly  young ones, don't know how to tell their stories to the media properly.Many reporters, particularly those new to the business beat, don't know  enough about the complexities of business to make sense of information and  give it meaningful insight for their audiences. Complicating the process is  technology, which gives both sides the false impression that the ability to  move more and more information around the world 24 hours a day is useful.  Without context, this information overload is far from useful-it is  downright confusing. Add to this a growing hunger for insight, not just  information, from a new generation of consumer-investors who are taking  more responsibility for their financial futures, and the knowledge gap  becomes even wider.<br />Companies that understand the knowledge gap and take  steps to close it will see benefits. Most established companies that have  been around the media for some time get the point. But many young, small  companies, particularly those that are newly public, may not have caught on  the issue. They haven't learned how to promote or protect themselves. It is  these companies, especially, and the executives who run them, that this  book is directed.<br />If you manage a company, whether small, medium, or  large, there are a couple of things you need to do to make sure the gap  between what you do know and what you don't know doesn't get wider. Because  if it does, the consequences can be serious. And in an environment where  the media are a determining factor in the success or failure of your  company's reputation, you cannot afford to ignore what's going on.<br />First,  make sure you incorporate communications, particularly media relations,  into your strategic business plan. Communications should be as important as  manufacturing, sales, and distribution. Through communications, including  many of the aspects covered in this book, you can stay plugged in. When  done properly, communications can be an excellent way to get your messages  out and to receive information and insight from the environment in which  you do business. A communications effort does not need to be elaborate. But  you must get started. You must be part of this new environment. Every day  you lose, you fall further behind.<br />Second, get professional  communications help if you don't already have it. Consider good  communications and relationships with the media to be as serious an issue  as any other in your business. Just as you wouldn't think of attempting a  merger or acquisition without an investment bank, or making a substantial  investment for your company without a financial advisor, or tackle a  serious legal issue without lawyers, you cannot face the media without the  help of Public Relations professionals. The media is a specialized world  that requires specialists to manage on your behalf. A reliable public  relations agency or consultant can put together an effective plan,  including proactive, reactive, and crisis elements, at a relatively modest  cost.<br />In a nutshell, Total Exposure is the first book to offer senior  executives and Public Relations professionals both a clear understanding of  the transformation of business journalism and practical guidelines on  strategically managing their company's image in this new environment. It  explains how to:<br />* avoid overexposure by targeting credible journalists  and media forums  * find the right spokespeople and train them to say the  right things  * think like a reporter, understanding story angles and  agendas, and more <br />With the exception of the introductory chapter, each  of the 12 chapters of this book is summarized in bullet form at the end in  a `Summary of Trends' section and a `Lessons for Companies'  section.<br />Gustav Carlson is head of media relations for a major Wall  Street firm, PaineWebber. He has been a business editor for both the New  York Times and the Miami Herald and a vice president at Hill &amp; Knowlton  in New York.<br />Reviewed by Azlan Adnan. Formerly Business Development  Manager with KPMG,  Azlan is currently Managing Partner of Azlan &amp; Koh  Knowledge and Professional Management Group, a consulting practice based in  Kota Kinabalu that represents global reputation management firm Shandwick  International in Sabah. He holds a Master's degree in International  Business and Management from the Westminster Business School in London.	2000-03-02
US	50681244	RRHQMXQUPUJDQ	0875848362	713541313	Peter Drucker on the Profession of Management (Harvard Business Review Book)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	A priceless collection of Drucker's most significant work	For nearly half a century Peter Ferdinand Drucker (1909- ) has inspired and educated managers-and influenced the nature of business-with his landmark articles in the Harvard Business Review. Here, gathered together  and framed by a thoughtful introduction from the Review's editor Nan Stone,  is a priceless collection of his most significant work.<br />One of our  leading thinkers on the practice and study of management, Drucker has  sought out, identified, and examined the most important issues confronting  managers, from corporate strategy to management style to social change.  Through his unique lens, this volume gives us the rare opportunity to trace  the evolution of the great shifts in our workplaces, and to understand more  clearly the role of managers in the ongoing effort to balance change with  continuity.<br />Now, these important articles and essays are strategically  presented here to address two unifying themes: the first examines &quot;The  Manager's Responsibilities&quot; while the second investigates &quot;The  Executive's World&quot;. Accompanied by an interview with Peter Drucker on  &quot;The Post-Capitalist Executive&quot;, as well as a thought-provoking  preface by Peter Drucker himself, a complete picture of management theory  and practice emerges, both as it was and as it will be.<br />Infused with a  perspective that holds new relevance today, these essays represent Drucker  at his best: direct, wise and challenging. Peter Drucker on the Profession  of Management, sure to be studied, debated, and enjoyed by everyone  concerned with management, everyone concerned with management, is a timely  offering from one of the most respected and prolific authors to appear in  the Harvard Business Review.<br />At 90, Peter Drucker is, by all accounts,  the most enduring management thinker of our time. Born in Vienna, educated  in Austria and England, he has worked since 1937 in the United States,  first as an economist for a group of British banks and insurance companies,  and later as a management consultant to several leading companies. Drucker  has since had a distinguished career as a teacher, including more than  twenty years as Professor of Management at the Graduate Business School of  New York University. Since 1971 he has been Marie Rankin Clarke Professor  of Social Science and Management at the Peter F. Drucker Graduate School of  Management, Claremont Graduate University in California, where he still  teaches in the fields of management and business policy. He is the founder  of The Peter F. Drucker Foundation for Nonprofit Management, and has  counseled numerous governments, public service institutions, and major  corporations.<br />Drucker is a writer, teacher, and consultant with a  long-term business perspective second to none. His twenty-nine previous  books have been published in more than twenty languages and span sixty  years of modern history beginning with The End of Economic Man (1939) and  Managing in a Time of Great Change; Management: Tasks, Responsibilities,  Practices; Innovation and Entrepreneurship; The Effective Executive;  Managing for Results and The Practice of Management. Nan Stone is the  editor of the Harvard Business Review. <br />Reviewed by Azlan Adnan, Managing  Partner of Azlan &amp; Koh Knowledge and Professional Management Group, an  education and management consulting practice based in Kota Kinabalu. Azlan  has a MA in International Business and Management from the University of  Westminster.	2000-02-27
US	50681244	R1OG4I6XHZUHHY	0787947644	305992271	Peter Drucker: Shaping the Managerial Mind--How the World's Foremost Management Thinker Crafted the Essentials of Business Success (A Jossey Bass title)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Crash course on PFD's most profound thoughts on management	To leaders, students, and admirers everywhere, he is `the father of modern management' and `the man who invented corporate America.' According to Forbes magazine, he is still `the youngest managerial mind' after sixty  prolific years of writing, lecturing, and consulting. He is Peter F.  Drucker, the world's most widely read and influential thinker on business  and management.<br />While there have been several books about Peter Drucker  and his life, this is the first to present a comprehensive synthesis and  in-depth analysis of his works and insights on management. Drawing from  over forty years as a student, follower, and friend, John E. Flaherty has  created a definitive account of Drucker's managerial achievements. An  expert on management himself, Flaherty provides readers with a practical  overview of Drucker's most important contributions to management and  business strategy. He not only captures Drucker's fundamental management  concepts and ideas but also shows how these principles have current  relevance for today's practitioners.<br />At 90, Peter Drucker is, by all  accounts, the most enduring management thinker of our time. Born in Vienna,  educated in Austria and England, he has worked since 1937 in the United  States, first as an economist for a group of British banks and insurance  companies, and later as a management consultant to several leading  companies. Drucker has since had a distinguished career as a teacher,  including more than twenty years as Professor of Management at the Graduate  Business School of New York University. Since 1971 he has been Marie Rankin  Clarke Professor of Social Science and Management at the Peter F. Drucker  Graduate School of Management, Claremont Graduate University in California,  where he still teaches in the fields of management and business policy. He  is the founder of The Peter F. Drucker Foundation for Nonprofit Management,  and has counseled numerous governments, public service institutions, and  major corporations.<br />For those new to Peter Drucker, this essential  compendium is a crash course on his most profound discoveries on  management, change, entrepreneurial endeavor, and executive effectiveness.  For those who have read Drucker's extensive writings, this significant  volume offers deeper insight into his more novel and far-reaching concepts.  Filled with useful summaries and checklists of key lessons, Peter Drucker:  Shaping the Managerial Mind distills a lifetime of wisdom and experience  for managers and students everywhere.<br />Reviewed by Azlan Adnan, Managing  Partner of Azlan &amp; Koh Knowledge and Professional Management Group, an  education and management consulting practice based in Kota Kinabalu. Azlan  has a MA in International Business and Management from the University of  Westminster	2000-02-27
US	50681244	R1H9VEGZQ8UU4S	0471172073	284470091	Wharton on Dynamic Competitive Strategy	Books	5	7	11	N	N	Stay Ahead of the Competition	The competitive challenges facing managers are more complex and fast-moving than ever. This environment demands dynamic competitive strategies-strategies that anticipate and adjust to competitors'  countermoves, shifting customer demands, and changes in the business  world.<br />The Wharton Business School at the University of Pennsylvania is  the oldest business school in America and one of the most revered  institutions of business study in the world. Wharton on Dynamic Competitive  Strategy offers new perspectives on competitive strategy from a  distinguished group of faculty at Wharton and other leading business  schools around the world. This book presents the best insights from decades  of research in key areas such as competitive strategy, simulations, game  theory, scenario planning, public policy, and market-driven strategy. It  represents the most cohesive collection of insights on strategy ever  assembled by a leading school of business.<br />Developed for the thinking  manager, Wharton on Dynamic Competitive Strategy provides deep insights  into the true dynamics of competition. In contrast to popular, quick-fix  formulas for strategic success, this book provides perspectives that will  help you better understand the underlying dynamics of competitive  interactions and make better strategic decisions in a rapidly changing and  uncertain world.<br />The insights and approaches presented here are  illustrated with real-world examples which demonstrate how these approaches  can be applied to your strategic challenges.<br />This groundbreaking new book  will change your view of strategy and give you the tools you need to  succeed in a dynamic and intensely challenging world.<br />Reviewed by Azlan  Adnan. Azlan is Managing Partner of Azlan &amp; Koh Knowledge and  Professional Management Group, an education and management consulting  practice based in Kota Kinabalu, Malaysian Borneo. Azlan has a MA in  International Business and Management from the University of Westminster.	2000-02-27
US	50681244	R12HX4IB93SFTR	0814404812	472556948	Goldilocks on Management: 27 Revisionist Fairy Tales for Serious Managers	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Sound lessons for business with relevance for managers	Though kids would never suspect it, behind all the huffing and puffing, the golden eggs and glass slippers, our beloved fairy tales are chockfull of sound lessons for business. This book brings those magical yarns again  to life-but with new force and relevance for grown-up managers. <br />The book  is the brainchild of Gloria Gilbert Mayer and Thomas Mayer, avid fairy tale  fans with thriving careers as consultants. During their three decades of  involvement in management, the Mayers watched many trends come and go. They  also came to a startling realization: the best business practices reflect  time-honored principles-in fact, the very stuff of classic children's  stories. <br />&quot;Fairy tales offer us fundamental truths that have  persisted across generations,&quot; the Mayers point out. &quot;They are  simple, direct, fun, and enduring.&quot;<br />Liberally sprinkled with  whimsical line drawings, Goldilocks On Management revisits 27 enchanting  stories we all know and love. Without sacrificing the cherished staples,  the Mayers tell each tale with a distinctive twist to make it more adult,  entertaining, and reflective of today's on-the-job realities. (For example,  Goldilocks is recast as &quot;a highly compensated professional woman with  a serious attitude problem.&quot;) <br />But this fairy tale collection is no  mere humorous parody. The &quot;moral&quot; of each story is crystallized  as a one-line basic business lesson. Each yarn is accompanied by an  in-depth discussion of its applications for serious managers. And every  imaginative tale is complemented by a parallel real-world business  example-a contemporary case study with striking similarities to the  storybook fiction. <br />A wonderfully playful resource packed with thoughtful  insights and practical strategies, Goldilocks on Management takes a fresh  and winning approach to excelling in the big bad world of business.  <br />Gloria Gilbert Mayer and Thomas Mayer are corporate consultants,  speakers, and writers specializing in issues of concern to health care  professionals. They have collaborated on numerous articles, as well as a  consumer's guide to HMOs, The Health Insurance Alternative. This book was  inspired by their mutual love for classic children's stories and a lesson  reinforced throughout their three decades in management. Gloria holds a  Doctorate in Education from Columbia University. Tom holds an MBA from the  University of Phoenix, and is also board-certified in Family Practice from  Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons.<br />Reviewed by Azlan  Adnan, Managing Partner of Azlan &amp; Koh Knowledge and Professional  Management Group, an education and management consulting practice based in  Kota Kinabalu. Azlan has a MA in International Business and Management from  the University of Westminster.	2000-02-27
US	50681244	RRDDA3IDU4UVY	0471315737	268111530	The Concise Guide to Becoming an Independent Consultant	Books	3	3	18	N	N	Abridged version of the best-selling book	This Guide is an abridged version of the best-selling How to Succeed as an Independent Consultant. Packed with expert advice, helpful tips and industry secrets to successful self-marketing, it gives you the crucial  tools and techniques to survive and thrive in this highly competitive  field. From founding your business to writing proposals to negotiating  fees, this guide has details on a wide variety of essential  topics.<br />Herman Holtz is one of America's leading experts on business and  consulting. Holtz's consulting clients include IBM, General Electric, Dunn  and Bradstreet, Chrysler and Georgetown University. He is the author of  more than twenty best selling books on consulting, marketing and  sales.<br />Reviewed by Azlan Adnan. Formerly Business Development Manager  with KPMG,  Azlan is currently managing partner of Azlan &amp; Koh  Knowledge and Professional Management Group, an education and management  consulting practice based in Kota Kinabalu. He holds a Master's degree in  International Business and Management from the Westminster Business School  in London.	2000-01-12
US	50681244	R16AN53NENQN5J	087584877X	859871675	Blown to Bits: How the New Economics of Information Transforms Strategy	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Interesting Insight into the New Economics of Information	Richness or reach? The trade-off used to be simple but absolute: your business strategy either could be focus on &quot;rich&quot; information-customized products and services tailored to a niche  audience-or could reach out to a larger market, but with watered-down  information that sacrificed richness in favour of a broad, general appeal.  Much of business strategy as we know it today rests on this fundamental  dilemma.<br />Now, say Evans and Wurster, the new economics of information is  eliminating the trade off between richness and reach, blowing apart the  foundations of traditional business strategy. Blown to Bits reveals how the  spread of connectivity and common standards is redefining the information  channels that link businesses with their customers, suppliers, and  employees. Increasingly, your customers will have rich access to a universe  of alternatives, your suppliers will exploit direct access to your  customers, and your competitors will pick off the most profitable parts of  your value chain. Your competitive advantage is up for grabs.<br />To prepare  corporate executives and entrepreneurs alike for a fundamental change in  business competition, Evans and Wurster expand and illuminate  groundbreaking concepts first explored in their award-winning Harvard  Business Review article &quot;Strategy and the New Economics of  Information&quot;, and present a practical guide for applying  them.<br />Examples span the spectrum of industries-from financial services to  health care, from consumer to industrial goods, and from media to  retailing. Blown to Bits shows how to build new strategies that reflect a  world in which richness and reach go hand in hand and how to make the most  of the new forces shaping competitive advantage.<br />Philip Evans is a Senior  Vice President of The Boston Consulting Group. Thomas S. Wurster is a Vice  President of The Boston Consulting Group in Los Angeles. The authors are  co-leaders of The Boston Consulting Group's Media and Convergence  Practice.<br />Reviewed by Azlan Adnan. Formerly Business Development Manager  with KPMG, Azlan is currently Managing Partner of Azlan &amp; Koh Knowledge  and Professional Management Group, an education and management consulting  practice based in Kota Kinabalu, Malaysian Borneo. He holds a Master's  degree in International Business and Management from the Westminster  Business School in London.	2000-01-12
US	50681244	RJ80BTVG5Y1RF	0471183644	711998818	Developing Business Strategies	Books	5	38	39	N	N	Classic and comprehensive guide to strategic planning	Unless you know where your company is going, chances are it won't get very far in today's global marketplace. That's why every business needs the strong vision and keen sense of direction that come from the development,  evaluation, and implementation of business strategies-and why every  business owner or manager should have Developing Business Strategies, David  A. Aaker's classic and comprehensive guide to strategic planning, now in  its fifth edition.<br />Using vivid case studies, Developing Business  Strategies helps you to move beyond reactive problem solving toward the  development and realization of sound strategic objectives for your company.  Providing both the framework and the tools necessary to make strategy  development and strategy review efforts effective, this book shows you how  to: <br />* Conduct a structured external and internal analysis of a business  with confidence  * Develop sustainable competitive advantages by creating  assets, competencies, and strategies  * Make strategic investment decisions  to generate growth  * Organize to support strategies  * Compete  strategically in hostile, growth, and global contexts.<br />As compact and  easy to use as ever, this new Fifth Edition offers new or revised sections  on current topics such as strategic uncertainty, buyer hot buttons,  shifting customer priorities, strategy as options, paradigm shifts,  organizational stubbornness, and brand equity. You'll also find up-to-date  research and fresh examples on economic value analysis, competitor image,  total quality management, reengineering, the virtual corporation, and  more-plus a set of useful sample planning forms to help guide you through  the strategy development process.<br />Whether you're a business owner,  manager, or planning executive, the key to your company's success is in  Developing Business Strategies.<br />David A. Aaker is the E. T. Grether  Professor of Marketing Strategy at the Haas School of Business  Administration at the University of California at Berkeley. He is the  author of numerous articles and ten books on strategy, including Marketing  Research, Fifth Edition (Wiley) and Managing Brand Equity. His books have  been translated into eight languages. Professor Aaker is an active  consultant and speaker in the United States, Europe and South America.  <br />Reviewed by Azlan Adnan. Formerly Business Development Manager with  KPMG, Azlan is currently Managing Partner of Azlan &amp; Koh Knowledge and  Professional Management Group, an education and management consulting  practice based in Kota Kinabalu, Malaysian Borneo. He holds a Master's  degree in International Business and Management from the Westminster  Business School in London.	2000-01-12
US	50681244	R2B8E4S7BBRYDQ	0471364398	264605587	Economics and the Environment, 2nd Edition	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Highly Recommended for Students of Environmental Issues	How much pollution is too much? What role should government play in regulating the environment? Will &quot;clean technology&quot; lay the foundation for a sustainable future? To help students understand the  far-reaching implications of environmental and resource economics, this  text examines a broad range of topics in environmental economics. It  presents &quot;standard analysis,&quot; as well as in-depth treatment of  important issues at the cutting edge of environmental policy debates. The  focus is on equipping students with the tools necessary to analyze current  environmental issues as an economist would.<br />In keeping with the  philosophy of incorporating examples directly in the text, this book begins  with a detailed case study of a &quot;big issue&quot; with which many  students are familiar-global warming. Other issues covered in a rigorous  and comprehensive manner include the property-rights basis of environmental  problems, benefit estimation techniques and benefit-cost analysis,  incentive-based regulation, and sustainable resource use.<br />The Second  Edition retains the three interrelated advantages of its predecessor-(1)  broad content, (2) pedagogical clarity, and (3) timely, well-integrated  examples-while incorporating major reorganizations, additions and updates  aimed at enhancing learning and reflecting the most up-to-date information  available. Following the Introduction, this text centres around four  focussed questions:<br />Part I: How Much Pollution is Enough? Part II: Is  Government Up to the Job? Part III: How Can We Do Better? Part IV: Can We  Resolve Global Issues?<br />Using these questions as guidelines, the author  develops the economic tools students need to explore solutions to  environmental problems. In the process, the book covers a wealth of current  examples, from global warming, to population growth, to urban air pollution  and energy policy, to chemical regulation and landfill siting.<br />Part V  covers four advanced topics: The Importance of Being Convex, Imperfect  Regulation in an Uncertain World, Input-Output Models and Life-Cycle  Analysis and Incentive-Compatible Regulation.<br />As this text addresses  important questions raised in contemporary (and future) society and  introduces readers to the economist's view of some solutions, it is highly  recommended for students taking courses in environment management,  environmental and resource economics, and environmental studies. Ideally,  students would have undertaken a course in microeconomics or intermediate  microeconomics as a prerequisite.<br />Formerly a Research Officer with the  Malaysian Timber Council's London office and Business Development Manager  with KPMG's Kuala Lumpur office, Azlan Adnan is currently Managing Partner  of Azlan &amp; Koh Knowledge and Professional Management Group, an  education and management consulting practice based in Kota Kinabalu. He  holds a Master's degree in International Business and Management from the  Westminster Business School.	2000-01-12
US	50681244	RR8WPFFXZD89W	1578511860	890107506	Managing in the New Economy (Harvard Business Review Book)	Books	5	20	24	N	N	Helps Readers Make Sense of the New Economy	As the Harvard Business Review's strategy editor, Joan Magretta helped readers to see beyond the hype that surrounds the much discussed but frequently misunderstood &quot;new economy&quot;. Her work with the world's  most influential business thinkers and executives has shaped our  understanding of the practical issues of leadership, organization, and  strategy that every manager must confront in this emerging era. Now,  Magretta selects some of the most perceptive articles and interviews from  the Review in a collection that will help readers make sense of the new  managerial agenda.<br />With its balance coverage, Managing in the New Economy  helps us sort out what is truly new about the new economy and what endures  from the old. The articles are organized around important managerial  issues, revealing how the dynamics shaping the new economy are changing  both manager's priorities and the tools they use to make decisions. Part 1  addresses the principal issues of strategy, analysis and competition. In  Part II, Magretta turns our attention to the new realities of leadership  and organization. Part III brings these issues to life as three CEO's  describe how their organizations are tackling the challenges of managing in  the new economy.<br />With renowned contributors-from writers such as Michael  Porter, C.K Prahalad, and Peter Drucker to business leaders such as Michael  Dell-this invaluable collection explores the new mind-set executives in  every industry must embrace in order to keep pace with the trends in  technology, networks, knowledge, and globalization that are shaping the new  economy.<br />Joan Magretta is a writer and consultant based in Cambridge,  Massachusetts. She was the Harvard Business Review's strategy editor from  1995-1999, and the winner of the 1998 McKinsey award for the best HBR  article of the year. Prior to joining HBR, she was a partner at the  management consulting firm of Bain &amp; Co.<br />Reviewed by Azlan Adnan.  Formerly Business Development Manager with KPMG, Azlan is currently  Managing Partner of Azlan &amp; Koh Knowledge and Professional Management  Group, an education and management consulting practice based in Kota  Kinabalu, Malaysian Borneo. He holds a Master's degree in International  Business and Management from the Westminster Business School in London.	2000-01-12
US	50681244	R38823XC6SGKJK	0471348554	646606636	In the Words of Great Business Leaders	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Reveals remarkable insights into great business leaders	Brilliant, practical, obsessed with the day-to-day details of running a company-all are characteristics of the greatest business leaders of our time. This book reveals remarkable insights into these men and women,  teaching timeless lessons about business, money, and even human nature. It  also features thorough background information on each leader, telling the  stories of their struggles to succeed, their triumphs, and how their  various experiences-both good and bad-formed their business  philosophies.<br />From the consummate salesmen... like William Wrigley, Jr.,  who started a soap business in the late 1800s with only US$32 to his name  and by 1922 was selling ten billion sticks of gum per year.<br />To hustling  hard workers... like Edwin Land, president of Polaroid-which may have been  the first start-up company in history to get US$750,000 out of Wall Street  on a promise of inventing things for which there was no market.<br />To  self-made successes... like John D. Rockefeller, who never raised his voice  or made cutting remarks, but left no doubts about his power and became one  of the richest men in the country.<br />And, of course, the bosses... like  Harvey Firestone, whose early days as a traveling salesman gained him  valuable lessons that would serve him well as he created the Firestone Tire  and Rubber Company-which, thanks to Firestone, would weather the Great  Depression without even having to consider reducing its dividend.<br />In the  Words of Great Business Leaders delivers enlightening, surprising, and  motivating information for business readers of all industries. It presents  the accumulated experience of twenty business legends, in their own words.  Each leader provides inspiring and motivating wisdom that runs the gamut  from investing to setting priorities to making the most of  opportunity.<br />Reviewed by Azlan Adnan. Formerly Business Development  Manager with KPMG, Azlan is currently Managing Partner of Azlan &amp; Koh  Knowledge and Professional Management Group, an education and management  consulting practice based in Kota Kinabalu, Malaysian Borneo. He holds a  Master's degree in International Business and Management from the  Westminster Business School in London.	1999-12-22
US	50681244	R213PRA3YHB7NT	0471345091	296700722	The Book of Entrepreneurs' Wisdom: Classic Writings by Legendary Entrepreneurs	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Wisdom from the world�s leading entrepreneurs	This book is a collection of 50 essays and speeches by the world's leading entrepreneurs-from the past to the present.<br />Barry Diller, Michael Dell, Richard Branson, and Phil Knight are among the successful entrepreneurs who  share their best advice and strategies in the pages of this book. Filled  with insights on a wide variety of entrepreneurial issues, the book  discusses such topics as how to set and meet personal goals, how to create  the right image for your company, problem solving, generating ideas, going  public, and effective management. Editor Peter Krass introduces each  selection and provides interesting and relevant background information on  each entrepreneur. He also highlights significant comments and advice from  each entrepreneur.<br />This book features each entrepreneur's ideas in  his/her own words. Informative and inspiring, this book will appeal not  only to entrepreneurs, but to all general business readers.<br />Peter Krass  is an author and editor. He is the editor of The Book of Investing Wisdom,  The Book of Leadership Wisdom, and The Book of Business Wisdom (all  available from Wiley). <br />Reviewed by Azlan Adnan. Formerly Business  Development Manager with KPMG, Azlan is currently Managing Partner of Azlan  &amp; Koh Knowledge and Professional Management Group, an education and  management consulting practice based in Kota Kinabalu, Malaysian Borneo. He  holds a Master's degree in International Business and Management from the  Westminster Business School in London.	1999-12-22
US	50681244	R1XYK7UWN56QZ1	041519251X	500877393	Digital McLuhan: A Guide to the Information Millennium	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Presents McLuhan�s ideas about media	Marshall McLuhan was a media theorist whose path-breaking insights about the impact of media are regarded as seminal.<br />Digital McLuhan is actually two intertwining books: one presents McLuhan's ideas about media and their  impact upon our lives, the other presents the author's ideas about how  McLuhan's ideas can help us make sense of our new digital age. It presents  a lucid assessment and readable explication of McLuhan's method and 13 of  his major insights and what they can tell us about the new world we are  well on the way to creating. It highlights and explains the truly prophetic  nature of McLuhan's theories on media. At the time they were first  propounded, everyone thought McLuhan was talking about television, but what  he was really talking about was the Internet-two decades before it  appeared.<br />Paul Levinson explains the relevance of McLuhan's work for an  understanding of new media. This guide to the information millennium is a  deliberate wake-up call to those unaware of the profound power of the  Internet to reshape our lives and society.<br />Paul Levinson is President and  founder of Connected Education, offering postgraduates courses on the  Internet for more than a decade. He is author of The Soft Edge, Mind at  Large, Electronic Chronicles and Learning Cyberspace. He is visiting  Professor of Communications at Fordham University in New York City. He  obtained a PhD in Media Biology from New York University in  1979.<br />Reviewed by Azlan Adnan. Formerly Business Development Manager with  KPMG, Azlan is currently Managing Partner of Azlan &amp; Koh Knowledge and  Professional Management Group, an education and management consulting  practice based in Kota Kinabalu, Malaysian Borneo. He holds a Master's  degree in International Business and Management from the University of  Westminster in London.	1999-12-21
US	50681244	R34OXDGLU5YGEK	0471126217	396734291	The Consultant's Guide to Publicity: How to Make a Name for Yourself by Promoting Your Expertise	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Practical publicity &amp; promotional programs for professionals	This extremely accessible guide provides invaluable tips on how to get media attention and become the person to whom the media turns when they need an industry source to substantiate news articles. It details how to  determine promotable ideas, identify appropriate media for publicity, and  develop publicity devices such as news and press releases, company  background information, and press kits. Numerous examples of the author's  own publicity campaigns and of techniques that work are included.<br />Chapter  1 explores the pros and cons of doing publicity yourself, or turning to a  public relations agency. Chapter 2 lays the groundwork for your activities  as a self-publicist, setting objectives and goals and defining the terms  you'll need to know. Chapter 3 gets in the actual planning process. Chapter  4 shows you how to develop unique story ideas or angles. Chapter 5 deals  with setting up media contact files and the press kit. In Chapter 6 28  different tools for publicity are discussed in depth.<br />Chapter 7,  &quot;Dealing with the Media&quot; is the most important chapter. If you  remember nothing else from this book, get to know this chapter. Chapter 8  shows you how to deal with television and radio interviews. What to do if  you slip up and need crisis management publicity is covered in Chapter 9.  Finally, the all-important tracking of results, which can and must be done  in publicity, is covered in Chapter 10.<br />Reece A. Franklin founded  MarketSmarts, a marketing, advertising and public relations firm based in  California in 1992. He has a Bachelor's degree in International Relations  from Northern Illinois University and has run publicity campaigns for  dozens of entrepreneurs and consultants.<br />Reviewed by Azlan Adnan.  Formerly Business Development Manager with KPMG, Azlan is currently  Managing Partner of Azlan &amp; Koh Knowledge and Professional Management  Group, an education and management consulting practice based in Kota  Kinabalu, Sabah, Malaysian Borneo. He holds a Master's degree in  International Business and Management from the Westminster Business School  in London.	1999-12-09
US	50681244	R1914O1VBQI5BM	157610429X	854325566	The iMac Book: Get inside the hot new iMac, CNET's "Most Innovative Product" of 1998	Books	5	14	15	N	N	The dream reference tool for anyone with an iMac	The iMac Book is the dream reference tool for anyone with an iMac from Apple Computer, Inc. Whether you are a new computer user or a die-hard Macintosh (Mac) user, you will learn how to get the most out of your iMac. You will quickly learn how the iMac works, how to run Mac and Windows 95/98  software and how to connect the right peripherals to your iMac. The author  also tells you how, in literally a matter of minutes, you can be connected  to the Internet and using your iMac for research on any topic. Chapter 7  provides a gold mine of information on how to effectively use the Internet  for research.<br />The iMac Book is the complete technology and cyber culture  resource on Apple's new iMac for beginning computer users. You will learn  how the Macintosh Operating System (Mac OS) works, as well as your option  to run more than 30 other operating system on your iMac, including Windows  95/98. Additionally, you will discover how to troubleshoot problems, choose  upgrade paths, add paths, add peripherals, and increase your computer  memory by yourself.<br />The author shows you how easy it is to get on and  surf the Internet and find resources to build your own Web page. You will  be guided directly to thousands of Macintosh-related resources on the  Internet, such as Web sites, mailing lists, software archives, live chats,  newsgroups, and to sources that provide the latest Mac news and product  updates. This book is written in a non-technical style and is designed to  elucidate and educate, not intimidate.<br />Don Rittner ordered his first Mac  in January 1984, and received it the next month-the same month he started  Macintosh Enthusiasts Club of the Capital Area (MECCA), one of the oldest  Mac User Groups in the United States, which he still runs. In 1985, he  became a columnist and User Group Editor for Macazine, an early national  Mac magazine for Apple user groups. In 1988, he was a columnist for Mac  Horizons, another national Mac magazine. He has written for MacUser,  MacWeek, Online Access, and other national magazines.<br />Reviewed by Azlan  Adnan. Formerly Business Development Manager with KPMG, Azlan is currently  Managing Partner of Azlan &amp; Koh Knowledge and Professional Management  Group, an education and management consulting practice based in Kota  Kinabalu, Sabah, Malaysian Borneo. He holds a Master's degree in  International Business and Management from the University of Westminster in  London.	1999-12-08
US	50681244	RLC2CYYGSNFHK	0415115949	561733316	The Photography Handbook (Media Practice)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Sound theoretical &amp; critical background of photography	Over the last 160 years, photography has been used to record all aspects of human life and activity. Over this period the medium has expanded its capabilities in the recording of time and space, allowing us to capture the fleeting moment and to visualize both the vast and the microscopic. It has  brought us images from remote areas of the world, distant parts of the  solar system, as well as the social complexities and crises of modern life.  Indeed, the photographic medium has provided one of the most influential  means of depicting the human predicament. In bringing about the media  culture that characterizes modern life, photography has also brought the  harsh realities of the world onto the coffee-table in our cozy  homes.<br />Photography has provided a system of visual presentation that has  both generated and promoted the social, political, economic, scientific and  artistic developments of the past century and a half. The persuasive use of  photography in advertising has evolved to perpetuate the consumer society  of the post-industrial era. The true value of photography's  representational powers lies as much in the image's historical and cultural  contexts as in any inherent properties of the photographic medium itself.  Thus, looking at a photograph and obtaining information from it is not as  straightforward as we might have first thought.<br />This handbook is not an  introductory photographic textbook and does not cover specific details of  photographic techniques or technical theory such as darkroom practice and  how to use a camera. Instead, it introduces the principles of photography  enabling the reader not only to gain a sound theoretical background, but  also to develop a critical approach to the field of photographic  practice.<br />Chapter 1 examines the historical context and visual tradition  that gave rise to the photographic phenomenon, elucidating both the  historical background and the rationale for photographic representation,  establishing a theoretical framework. Chapter 2 considers the  pre-production factors in approaching the photographic shoot, discussing  conceptual photographic skills in terms of Realist, Formalist and  Expressionist Aesthetics. Chapter 3 examines the character and nature of  the photographic image, while Chapter 4 explores the scope and limitations  of the post-production process. Chapter 5 looks at the use of the camera as  a documentary tool while Chapter 6 views photography as a medium of  expression. Chapter 7 describes the current impact of new technologies on  photographic practice whilst the final chapter is devoted to the  digitalization of the photographic image and its future significance for  photography.<br />In providing guidelines for the systematic study of  photographic media, this handbook would be of interest to practitioners,  theorists, students and scholars of photography, media studies,  communications and the visual arts.<br />A former professional photographer,  Terence Wright is currently Associate Fellow of the Reuter Programme at  Oxford University. He has previously taught at the National Film and  Television School and the School of Media Arts, University of  Luton.<br />Reviewed by Azlan Adnan. Formerly Business Development Manager  with KPMG, Azlan is currently Managing Partner of Azlan &amp; Koh Knowledge  and Professional Management Group, an education and management consulting  practice based in Kota Kinabalu, Sabah, Malaysian Borneo. He holds a  Master's degree in International Business and Management from the  University of Westminster in London.	1999-12-08
US	50681244	R2H6KXPCXK0C8F	0471193674	95364029	The Portable MBA in Marketing	Books	4	13	36	N	N	Focuses on customer needs, preferences &amp; expectations	Companies flying high on economic good times may be in danger of forgetting the business fundamentals that underlie their success. Increased focus on the bottom line, competitive strategies, and financial goals  divert attention from the primary source of every company's good  fortune-the customer. The Portable MBA in Marketing, second edition, is  dedicated to the principle that the only guarantee for continued success is  a consistent focus on and attention to customer needs, preferences, and  expectations.<br />This powerful tool for business success in the twenty-first  century furnishes bright, ambitious managers with a solid grounding in  MBA-level marketing theory and practice. Fully updated and expanded, this  new edition emphasizes fresh marketing strategies and cutting-edge  marketing concepts and techniques that help keep you in touch with your  customers. It focuses on the key issues facing companies today, including  how to outperform competitors, anticipate future trends, improve  advertising and sales, build customer loyalty, and market on the  Internet.<br />Charles D. Schewe, PhD, is a principal at Lifestage Matrix  Marketing and a full professor at the University of Massachusetts at  Amherst. He has authored ten books and more than fifty articles on  marketing. Alexander Hiam is the author of a dozen books, including  Marketing for Dummies, The Vest-Pocket Marketer, and The Entrepreneur's  Complete Sourcebook.<br />Reviewed by Azlan Adnan. Formerly Business  Development Manager with KPMG, Azlan Adnan is currently Managing Partner of  Azlan &amp; Koh Knowledge and Professional Management Group, an education  and management consulting practice based in Kota Kinabalu, Malaysian  Borneo. He holds a Master's degree in International Business and Management  from the Westminster Business School, London.	1999-12-07
US	50681244	R36BZW7ADOD41C	0471245305	270556268	The Portable MBA Desk Reference: An Essential Business Companion (The Portable MBA Series)	Books	4	18	21	N	N	A world of facts and figures at your fingertips	Being in business today means navigating a daunting array of jargon, theories, and data covering hundreds of topics-anyone of which could have the power to make or break your success at any time.<br />That's why thousands  of people depend on The Portable MBA Desk Reference-the complete one-stop  source of quick-access information on hundreds of key business terms,  concepts, and resources. From accounting and advertising to management and  manufacturing, this ready reference puts a wealth of essential knowledge  right at your fingertips.<br />Now substantially revised  and updated, this  outstanding second addition of The Portable MBA Desk Reference keeps pace  with the latest developments in business facts, figures, and more. Like its  successful predecessor, this new edition offers the combined wisdom of  experts from every field of business-all skillfully presented in two  user-friendly sections.<br />Part One is an easy-to-use A-Z encyclopedia of  major business topics, with plain-English coverage of crucial terminology  and subjects in accounting, economics, finance, international business,  management, manufacturing, marketing, and strategy. You'll also find  helpful mini-case studies and real-life examples, plus time-saving  cross-references to related entries.<br />Part Two is a comprehensive and  up-to-date directory of sources of vital business information. It tells you  exactly where to look-in print and on line-and whom to contact for  information on dozens of business areas, including advertising, marketing  demographics, corporate and industrial financial data, economic data,  international business, and more. You'll also find appendices packed with  hard business facts, numbers, and lists-perfect for beefing up an important  report or preparing for that last-minute meeting.<br />Whether you're looking  for a quick-take or a complete business refresher course, The Portable MBA  Desk Reference, Second Edition is an essential companion for your trip tothe top.<br />Nitin Nohria is Professor of Business Administration at The  Harvard Business School, where he focuses on leadership and organizational  change. An active speaker at industry and company forums, he is  coeditor-with James Champy-of Fast Forward, a collection of Harvard  Business Review articles on change, and with Robert Eccles, of Networks and  Organizations: Structure, Form, and Action. He is also coauthor of Beyond  the Hype, with Robert Eccles; The Differentiated Network, with Sumantra  Ghoshal; and The Arc of Ambition, with James Champy.<br />Reviewed by Azlan  Adnan. Formerly Business Development Manager with KPMG, Azlan Adnan is  currently Managing Partner of Azlan &amp; Koh Knowledge and Professional  Management Group, an education and management consulting practice based in  Kota Kinabalu, Malaysian Borneo. He holds a Master's degree in  International Business and Management from the Westminster Business School,  London.	1999-12-07
US	50681244	R9MM3738ZI1WG	0566081296	909562165	Using Psychology in Business: A Practical Guide for Managers	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Psychology can make the difference in people management	It's a fact that finding, keeping and developing the right people has a greater impact on profitability than research and development, quality initiatives and even new technology. Psychological techniques can make the  difference in people management-this book can build them easily into their  daily routine.<br />Mark Parkinson looks at an organization's most valuable  resource, its people, and the approaches that can be used to maximize their  performance. The topics he covers trace a path through the rapidly growing  field of business psychology from recruitment, selection and psychometrics  to team building, individual development and workplace counselling.<br />Each  chapter reviews the major techniques and provides a rich source of  practical ideas, reinforced with checklist, case studies and extracts from  world-class assessment and development products. There is advice on how to  obtain the services of a business psychologist, and contact information  covering the major test publishers and consultancies. A detailed glossary  ends the book, providing a powerful resource for all managers.<br />Using  Psychology in Business gives straightforward, non-theoretical advice and  sets you up with an integrated set of solutions for all your people  management and organizational development needs.<br />Dr Mark Parkinson is the  senior consultant with the Morrisby Organization, one of the UK's leading  firms of psychometric test publishers and business psychologists. He has  consulted extensively with many companies including British Airways,  British Aerospace, BP, Burmah-Castrol, McCain foods, Xerox and Tarmac. Mark  is the co-designer of a collection of popular psychometric tests and the  author of a number of books including Interviews Made Easy and How to  Master Psychometric Tests. He has also written many articles on aspects of  business psychology.<br />Reviewed by Azlan Adnan. Formerly Business  Development Manager with KPMG, Azlan Adnan is currently Managing Partner of  Azlan &amp; Koh Knowledge and Professional Management Group, an education  and management consulting practice based in Kota Kinabalu. He holds a  Master's degree in International Business and Management from the  Westminster Business School, London.	1999-12-07
US	50681244	R3CQIZHN02UXXZ	0195647637	938776165	Corporate Strategies: A Comprehensive Handbook based on the Indian Experience	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Comprehensive overview of the Indian Corporate Experience	The increasing complexity of today's political, social and business environment make it essential for current and future corporate decision-makers to have a comprehensive understanding of different aspects  of the managerial decision-making process. In India, where the  liberalization of the economy has exposed our domestic companies to  multinational competition, such an understanding is vital.<br />This book,  with its wide-ranging, analytical coverage of the various facets of the  decision-making process will fulfill this need. It is a guide to managers  about where they are headed and exactly how to get there. Its completely  up-to-date analysis includes:<br />* environment and situation analysis *  analysis of resources and functional strategies * discussions on culture,  values, leadership and ethics * strategic options and strategic choice *  strategy implementation and control * MNC strategies and strategies  suitable for domestic companies in developing<br />This book is essential  reading for senior managers involved in strategic decision-making as well  as functional managers in the field of operations, finance, marketing,  human resource development and R&amp;D. Students and faculty in management  schools, chartered accountants, management consultants and technocrats will  find its coverage exhaustive and timely.<br />Bani P. Banerjee is Emeritus  Professor, Indian Institute of Social Welfare and Business Management,  Calcutta.<br />Reviewed by Azlan Adnan. Formerly Business Development Manager  with KPMG, Azlan Adnan is currently Managing Partner of Azlan &amp; Koh  Knowledge and Professional Management Group, an education and management  consulting practice based in Kota Kinabalu, Malaysian Borneo. He holds a  Master's degree in International Business and Management from the  Westminster Business School, London.	1999-12-07
US	50681244	RVGE96AH6KE2A	0566081229	624964106	Gower Handbook of Training and Development	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Invaluable aid for today�s training professionals	It is now crystal clear that, in today's ever-changing world, an organization's very survival depends upon how it supports its people to learn and keep on learning. Of course this new imperative has considerable  implications for trainers who are now playing an increasingly critical role  in supporting individuals, teams and business management. In this respect  today's trainers may need to be more than excellent presenters; they are  also likely to require a range of consultancy and coaching skills, to  understand the place of technology in supporting learning and be able to  align personal development values with business objectives.<br />This brand  new edition of the Gower Handbook of Training and Development will be an  invaluable aid for today's training professionals as they face up to the  organizational challenges presented to them. All 38 chapters in this  edition are new and many of the contributors, whilst being best selling  authors or established industry figures, are appearing for the first time  in this form. Edited by Anthony Landale, this Handbook builds on the  foundations that previous editions have laid down whilst, at the same time,  highlighting many of the very latest advances in the industry.<br />The  Handbook is divided into five sections-learning organizations, best  practice, advanced techniques in training and development, the use of IT in  learning, and evaluation issues.<br />Anthony Landale is currently  Editor-in-Chief of Management Skills &amp; Development magazine, having  been the editor from 1992-1998. He is a regular contributor to The  Guardian's management page, and is a freelance trainer specializing in  areas including facilitation, coaching and personal development.  Additionally, he is a qualified counsellor with his own private  practice.<br />Reviewed by Azlan Adnan. Formerly Business Development Manager  with KPMG, Azlan Adnan is currently Managing Partner of Azlan &amp; Koh  Knowledge and Professional Management Group, an education and management  consulting practice based in Kota Kinabalu, Malaysian Borneo. He holds a  Master's degree in International Business and Management from the  Westminster Business School, London.	1999-12-07
US	50681244	R6WCTIQ6ULOQ8	0471347817	617542161	The Minding Organization: Bring the Future to the Present and Turn Creative Ideas into Business Solutions	Books	3	4	14	N	N	First &quot;Learning&quot; Organisation, Now &quot;Minding&quot; Organisation	This book taps into the trend of seeing organisations in organic terms and focusing on action-based creativity. It is about creating a &quot;minding organization,&quot; one that behaves like a human being-instantly able to adapt to new and ever-changing conditions; where the right hand literally knows what the left hand is doing. <br />In a minding organization, all of the  parties involved in a project-whether it's developing a new product,  streamlining a process, or changing a strategy-get together from the start  to explore the issues. They bring insights up front that would normally be  learned only later on, a kind of high-level connection that is the hallmark  of the minding organization and the surest way to gain competitive  advantage. The goal of a minding organization is to adapt so readily that  it innovates before its competitors do.<br />This book shows managers how to  transform their organisation into one that behaves like a living  organism-alive with ideas and instantly able to adapt for survival in an  increasingly complex, unpredictable global business world.<br />Moshe F.  Rubinstein is a professor at the UCLA School of Engineering and a frequent  speaker at universities and organizations all over the world. Iris R.  Firstenberg is an adjunct professor in the UCLA Department of Psychology  and has also taught at the UCLA School of Engineering and the Anderson  Graduate School of Management at UCLA.<br />Reviewed by Azlan Adnan, Managing Partner  of Azlan &amp; Koh Knowledge and Professional Management Group.	1999-11-30
US	50681244	RSZVRBVERRUWF	0471835307	206558021	Asian Eclipse: Exposing the Dark Side of Business in Asia	Books	3	13	14	N	N	Selective &amp; Lacking Depth But Nevertheless Informative	Asia was a shining star in the world economy for most of the 1980s and 1990s. The secrets of its success were often a subject of intense debate. Plaudits cited Japanese economic power, Confucian work ethics, the freeing of China's markets, Eastern ingenuity and the powerful overseas Chinese  guanxi networks. Critics were dismissed as ignorant of Asian values. <br />But  behind the façade lay a darker, more sinister truth. This remarkable  account tears away the myths of Asian business and reveals the dark side of  the Asian success story. The recent downturn in the Asian economies has  been blamed on a number of factors. This controversial, eye-opening book  analyzes a number of dubious business practices that are endemic in the  region and which the author believes have played a significant part in  Asia's economic downfall. Along with an in-depth examination of such  troubling symptoms as widespread cronyism and inadequate legal protection,  Asian Eclipse includes chapters on the unique business environments of  Japan, China, and Indonesia.<br />Of particular interest to Malaysians are the  whole sections devoted to &quot;The Mahathir Family in Business&quot; (pp  304-311), &quot;Sarawak Incorporated&quot; (pp 311-314), and  &quot;Malaysia's Ekran Group&quot; (pp 120-124).<br />From endemic corruption  to rampant cronyism, Asian Eclipse is a tale of capitalism gone sour, it  names the perpetrators and offers timely advice on what is really needed  for Asia to clean up its act. With its lucid explanations on how outside  investors should approach the new Asian markets, it will remain an  indispensable guide to the complexities of corporate Asia for years to  come.<br />Australian Michael Backman is a leading commentator on corporate  Asia, regularly contributing to the Asian Wall Street Journal. Previously  an executive officer of the East Asian Analytical Unit of Australia's  Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade, he is known for this detailed and  uncompromising analysis. Trained as an economist, he has lived and worked  in Jakarta and travels widely throughout Asia. He is the principal author  of Overseas Chinese Business Networks in Asia. He is now a fellow at the  EC-ASEAN Management Centre. <br />Reviewed by Azlan Adnan, Managing Partner of Azlan &amp; Koh Knowledge and Professional Management Group	1999-11-30
US	50681244	R3BM3E4XKUFSY2	041514230X	199239834	Media Technology and Society: A History From the Telegraph to the Internet	Books	5	37	41	N	N	EXCELLENT PIECE OF RESEARCH &amp; ANALYSIS	This book won the 1998 Best Book Award by the American Association for History and Computing. It not only provides a comprehensive account of the history of electronic communications from telegraphy to the Internet, but  also offers a model with which to understand the processes of change in the  technologies of communication.<br />The purpose of book is not only to  explicate a fuller account of what actually occurred in the  telecommunications past but also to offer an interpretation, necessarily  synthetic and revisionist, of those occurrences. The model offers an  understanding of the history and the current position of communications in  our culture. This understanding is not solely dependent on the performance  of technology, but is also heavily dependent on an examination of the  operation of the social necessities and constraints.<br />Brian Winston's  fascinating account challenges the popular myth of a present-day  `information revolution' in communications technology by highlighting the  long histories of such developments. The fax was introduced in 1884.  Digitalization was demonstrated in 1938. Even the concept of the `web'  dates back to 1945.<br />In Part I, the author applies the model to the  electrical systems of communication, the telegraph and the telephone. Then,  in Part II, radio and television are dealt with. Part III is concerned with  computing while Part IV looks at the whole development of electrical and  electronic networks from the telegraph to the Internet. The conclusion  suggestions, via a consideration of the current state of research into  holography, that the model is still valid.<br />This book is essential reading  for anyone interested in the social impact of technological change.<br />Brian  Winston is Head of the School of Communication, Design and Media at the  University of Westminster, the world's leading school of media and  communication studies. He was previously Dean of the College of  Communications at the Pennsylvania State University, Chair of Cinema  Studies at New York University and Founding Director of the Glasgow  University Media Group. As a television professional in the UK, he has won  an Emmy for documentary script-writing.<br />Reviewed by Azlan Adnan. Formerly  Business Development Manager with KPMG,  Azlan is currently Managing  Partner of Azlan &amp; Koh Knowledge and Professional Management Group, an  education and management consulting practice based in Kota Kinabalu. He  holds a Master's degree in International Business and Management from the  University of Westminster in London.	1999-11-30
US	50681244	R3BQBDS6XIFRQI	0471248339	725672142	Perspectives on Strategy from The Boston Consulting Group	Books	3	10	25	N	N	CONSULTING HISTORY, 1968-1997, ala BCG	The Boston Consulting Group (BCG) is an innovator in business strategy worldwide. In fact, BCG and its founder, Bruce D. Henderson, may be best known internationally as the creators and architects of the discipline of business strategy. Innovative business concepts originating at the firm  include `cash cow,' `experience curve,' `segment-of-one marketing,'  `time-based competition,' and `capabilities-based competition.' Now, for  the first time, BCG's most influential writings are gathered in a  comprehensive collection, offering serious-minded readers access to BCG's  thinking on the theory, development, and practice of business  strategy.<br />One way BCG shares its insights on strategy is through a series  of publications known as Perspectives. Perspectives offer sharply focused  views and recommendations on strategic business topics. Distributed to  executives worldwide, Perspectives are typically no more than 1,200 words  in length. This book brings together many of the most influential  Perspectives, as well as several acclaimed articles published in the  Harvard Business Review. Both timely and timeless, the 75 pieces included  here are among, the most innovative, controversial, and stimulating to have  appeared between 1968 and 1997.<br />An anthology of the most provocative  thinking from one of the world's most esteemed management consulting firms,  Perspectives on Strategy is essential reading for senior managers,  executives, entrepreneurs, and students of strategy and business.<br />Carl W.  Stern is president and CEO of  BCG. He has been with BCG for seventeen  years, and his clients have included leading international consumer  packaged goods companies, financial services, and manufacturing companies.  He holds an MBA from Stanford Business School. George Stalk, Jr., joined  BCG in 1978 and is now a senior vice-president. He holds a BS in  Engineering Mechanics from the University of Michigan, an MS in Aeronautics  and Astronautics from MIT and an MBAfrom Harvard Business School. He is  coauthor of Competing Against Time and Kaisha: The Japanese  Corporation.<br />Reviewed by Azlan Adnan.	1999-11-30
US	50681244	R3HP5SHN6HFR3B	0471326283	519986853	The Harvard Entrepreneurs Club Guide to Starting Your Own Business	Books	5	18	23	N	N	For students who want to start their own business	This Guide is for undergraduate students and recent graduates with a great idea and want to start their own business. More and more students are seeking advice on starting their own business. The entrepreneurial spirit is thriving at Harvard, where many students, past and present, have become  successful business owners-even founders of Fortune 500 companies. Now some  of the bright minds of the Harvard Entrepreneurs Club have compiled their  business knowledge and experience into one comprehensive manual to aid  students in making their entrepreneurial dreams come true. This  professional and practical guide will take you step by step through the  process of starting and maintaining a business. Poonam Sharma and fellow  members of the Club have tailored this useful resource to the unique issues  and obstacles that students will face. You'll receive invaluable advice on  formulating a business plan, advertising, legal protection, business  ethics, and much more.<br />Even if you have no professional experience,  little marketing know-how, or even a small bank account, this book can  teach you how to join the ever-growing ranks of students who know firsthand  the pleasure-and the profit-that come from being your own boss and bringing  your business idea to life.<br />This book is highly recommended for all  business students as it will ignite the entrepreneurial spirit in  them.<br />Poonam Sharma served as a Director of the Harvard Entrepreneurs  Club from October 1997 to January 1999, during which time she edited this  guide. The HEC is dedicated to promoting the entrepreneurial spirit and to  helping undergraduate students start their own companies. Poonam Sharma is  a member of the Economics Class of 1999 at Harvard.<br />Reviewed by Azlan  Adnan. Formerly Business Development Manager with KPMG, Azlan Adnan is  currently Managing Partner of Azlan &amp; Koh Knowledge and Professional  Management Group, an education and management consulting practice based in  KotaKinabalu. He holds a Master's degree in International Business and  Management from the Westminster Business School, London.	1999-11-30
US	50681244	R16U93AKQSB5DM	0750641274	623510724	Marketing Professional Services	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Uniquely focused, incisive &amp; practical	This `how to' book is a uniquely focused, incisive and practical introduction to new business planning, marketing and selling skills, helping professionals to complement their specific technical skills with the power of good marketing practice.<br />The 14 chapters first provide you  with the basic grounding in various sales and marketing issues. Then, the  techniques, skills and resources required in order to achieve your goals  are covered, focusing on Preparation, Prospection and  Persistence.<br />Michael Roe is the Business Development Director at Research  International (RI) and the winner of an award from the Institute of Sales  Promotion for successfully implementing the sales and marketing philosophy  at RI, making it one of the leading market research companies in Europe  today.<br />Reviewed by Azlan Adnan. Formerly Business Development Manager  with KPMG, Azlan is currently managing partner of Azlan &amp; Koh, a  consulting practice based in Sabah, Malaysian Borneo. He holds a Master's  degree in International Business and Management from the Westminster  Business School, London.	1999-11-30
US	50681244	R23W2WPOY9NFS9	0684851954	456403615	Straight from the CEO: The World's Top Business Leaders Reveal Ideas That Every Manager Can Use	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Each piece is too short to provide any satisfying insight	Straight from over thirty of today's most innovative CEOs come the ideas that are reshaping and reinvigorating the modern corporation-written exclusively for this book. Straight from the CEO is a major work, because the world rarely hears directly from the great contemporary business  leaders-the chief movers and shakers of major corporations. Working closely  with the Price Waterhouse management team, a wide variety of chief  executives who are successfully managing today's rapid pace of economic  change present their ideas about leading and motivating people, unleashing  innovation and creativity, and learning from customers to revitalize their  businesses. Among the CEOs represented in the book are the heads of British  Airways, Compaq Computer, Monsanto, Royal Dutch/Shell, Enron, Chase  Manhattan Bank, and Warner-Lambert. The scope is worldwide: from Bangkok to  Jakarta, from Dusseldorf to Dallas. No ivory tower theorizing, no speeches,  no &quot;consultant speak,&quot; these are the practical insights of  leaders who every day must find ways to test and validate new ideas,  implement change to improve the bottom line, and ultimately focus on the  core ideas that will truly reshape their corporation. <br />Straight from the  CEO is an important tool for managers at every level, focusing on such  issues as creating loyalty to customers, organizing globally, fostering  individual employee motivation, and leveraging corporate values to enhance  performance. These are the pressing issues that face every manager who  strives to sort out valuable contributions from impractical ideas, the gold  from the dross, and then take action that gets results. As intellectually  stimulating as it is practical, Straight from the CEO is an invaluable  report from the executive trenches. <br />By necessity brief, the many pieces  (I hesitate to call them chapters or even articles) lack depth, assume much  and as a result are quite unstatisfying; but they do leave the reader  hungryfor more!<br />William Dauphinais is Vice Chairman, Human Capital for  PricewaterhouseCoopers. He co-authored with Colin Price two previous books,  The Paradox Principles and Better Change. He has 25 years of business  experience covering a broad range of organizational change, business  reengineering, financial planning, and information technology issues. He  received both his undergraduate degree and his MBA from the University of  Michigan. Colin Price was previously a partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers,  where he oversaw a Strategic Change Consulting, a practice of 3,000  consultants working with global clients in managing large-scale corporate  transformations. He has a BA in Economics and graduate degrees in  Organizational Psychology. Married with one child, he lives outside  London.<br />Reviewed by Azlan Adnan. Formerly Business Development Manager  with KPMG, Azlan Adnan is currently Managing Partner of Azlan &amp; Koh  Knowledge and Professional Management Group, an education and management  consulting practice based in Kota Kinabalu. He holds a Master's degree in  International Business and Management from the Westminster Business School,  London.	1999-11-30
US	50681244	R1U5BUNDYDJO7X	075062874X	528543582	Changing the Way We Work	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A Plug for Workset	How many problems at work arise from the way in which job specifications are defined? Either employees don't have a clear understanding of their duties and responsibilities, spending time and energy disentangling them  from those of their colleagues, or they are hemmed in by job descriptions  that allow no room for movement and initiative.<br />In Changing The Way We  Work, Belbin proposes Workset, an alternative system where jobs can grow  and develop: where communication about the work can flow up as easily as  down. It is a radical approach, incorporating colour-coding and information  technology, as a new means of delivering greater efficiency in a dynamic  process that equally involves managers and their employees.<br />This book  would be of interest to human resource managers and academics specialising  in organisational behaviour and development.<br />Born in 1926, Dr Raymond  Meredith Belbin is regarded as the father of team-role theory. He obtained  his first degree and doctorate from the University of Cambridge and has  conducted research on work study at Cranfield since the 1950s. His other  books include Management Teams: Why They Succeed or Fail, Team Roles at  Work, and The Coming Shape of Organization. In 1988, he founded Belbin  Associates which produces INTERPLACE, team role software for human resource  management, used by 30% of UK's top 100 companies.<br />Reviewed by Azlan  Adnan. Formerly Business Development Manager with KPMG, Azlan is currently  Managing Partner of Azlan &amp; Koh Knowledge and Professional Management  Group, an education and management consulting practice based in Kota  Kinabalu. He holds a Master's degree in International Business and  Management from the Westminster Business School.	1999-11-30
US	50681244	RPVY2ZWWZNCXI	0471161608	238631033	The Nordstrom Way: The Inside Story of America's #1 Customer Service Company	Books	5	11	14	N	N	EXCELLENT INSIGHT INTO CUSTOMER SERVICE BEST PRACTICE	A Seattle-based chain of department stores, Nordstrom is acknowledged as `best practice' in outstanding customer service and is the subject of countless MBA case studies. This book tells the Nordstrom customer service story. It reveals how Nordstrom created and maintains a culture of customer  service and more importantly how to translate the Nordstrom customer  service principles to your own business. <br />But the desire to implement  these principles must come with a commitment from management to customer  service and employee empowerment. Management must respect, encourage,  honour and reward the people on the front lines for their creativity and  ability to serve the customer. Only than will you be able to emulate  Nordstrom. Nordstrom's culture encourages entrepreneurial motivated men and  women to make the extra effort to give customer service that is unrivalled  in American retailing.<br />At the end of each of the eight chapters is a  useful Keys To Success section which summarises the key principles of  Nordstrom success discussed in the chapter.<br />Robert Spector is a Seattle  based freelance journalist who has covered Nordstrom since 1982 for a  variety of publications. Patrick D. McCarthy of Seattle is one of the top-  performing salesman in Nordstrom, where he has worked for more than 20  years. For 15 consecutive years, from 1977 through 1991, McCarthy was the  number one salesperson among Nordstrom's 35,000 employees. In 1992, 1993  and 1994, he was runner-up. His journey to financial rewards and job  satisfaction serves as an inspiration for every frontline employee in  virtually any business. <br />Reviewed by Azlan Adnan, Managing Partner of  Azlan &amp; Koh Knowledge and Professional Management Group.	1999-11-30
