US	50680639	R5GJJ010NTB4F	0895265532	502335041	Out of the Ashes: Life, Death and Transfiguration of Democracy in Chile, 1833-1988	Books	5	16	18	N	N	The only balanced history of Chile	I was looking for a history of Chile as I have just arrived and I learned that while a hundred books have been written on the history, more still on government and politics in Chile, most of them lean to the left.<br />This is apparently the only balanced history of Chile.	2002-11-28
US	50680639	R24NZES7AO9Z7P	0893911887	722516741	Conversational Style: Analyzing Talk Among Friends	Books	4	43	46	N	N	Understanding Misunderstandings	Deborah Tannen's book hit me with what should have been obvious years ago. During a recent conversation, a fellow student at the American University voiced some hesitation about applying for a master's degree in Sociology, because her undergraduate degree was in Music. Lacking a background in Sociology, she felt inadequate for the task. I replied that she might be surprised how much she her previous degree might open unusual research fields for her in Sociology. I commented that she could draw on her background in music to do some kind of research on the impact of music in people's lives or the similarity  diversity of music across cultural lines. She then commented that finding funding was difficult and again, I said, \\"You can.\\" Just search the Internet. There are so many scholarships and grants. You can do it.<br />Oddly, her body language when she shook my hand and said good-bye gave me the impression that she felt more assaulted than assured by our brief conversation.<br />Deborah Tannen's book explains in large measure what may have been happening. Tannen's book takes a simple dinner conversation between six people and shows what works and why as well as what fails and why. Among her examples is a matter of differing opinions about turn-taking. The \\"New Yorkers\\" in Tannen's book feel uncomfortable with silence. The British girl in the book feels a need for silence in order to contribute.<br />Tannen examines differing views of conversation pace, overlap, rate of speech, personal and non-personal topics and more.  Tannen shows that some people feel discussion of personal topics is a method for building rapport, while others feel it is an invasion of privacy. Some feel more comfortable when discussing impersonal topics and this allows them to relax more and allows rapport to be established. Some of the participants in Tannen's study felt that a rapid response implied an interest in the topic, others felt that a rapid response implied a desire to move on to a more interesting topic.<br />Although Tannen's research did not touch on cross-cultural gaps, it inspired me to think about how conversations went wrong in Japan and in Egypt and why. What expectations were different between myself and my international friends. The woman thinking about seeking a master's degree in Sociology was an upper class Egyptian. Her sense of timing, ideas about appropriate topics for discussion, sense of physical space and ideas about appropriate tone are very different from mine. Interestingly Tannen notes that speech behavior patterns are learned early and remain largely unchanged throughout a life-time. While much of the data in this book was useful, this aspect seems invalid when examined in relationship to learning new languages. B.F. Skinner and Pavlov have shown how behaviors can be modified. No doubt that for the participants of Tannen's study who appear to spend most of their time within an American culture, her statement seems valid. However, taken to Marine Corps boot camp, where behaviors in general are changed radically, I believe a more detailed linguistic study would show a marked change in behavior patterns of participants before and after military training. Moreover, taken internationally, speech patterns learned through cultural immersion into a foreign language might also have a marked impact on speech behaviors. My Japanese is considerably lighter in tone and accompanied by a mild body language compared to my English. Similarly, my Arabic is considerably louder in tone and accompanied by a more expressive body language than my English.<br />Tannen notes at the end of her study that there is much more work to do in this field. Cross-cultural studies are one of the topics that she mentions as specifically worthwhile.  Her concluding notes about rhythm, poetry and the literary parallels of spoken language made me think of the movie Matrix where the aliens enemy agents speak English, but with a decidedly odd and uncomfortable rhythm. Her comments about appropriate content make me think of most of the dialog in the movie Pulp Fiction. This movie was decidedly odd because it addressed issues in unusual contexts, such as religious discussions between gangsters participating in an assassination. These are, of course, extreme examples of odd content and form, but being extreme, they make the topics in Tannen's text easier to grasp.hm. Her comments about appropriate content make me think of most of the dialog in the movie Pulp Fiction. This movie was decidedly odd because it addressed issues in unusual contexts, such as religious discussions between gangsters participating in an assassination. These are, of course, extreme examples of odd content and form, but being extreme, they make the topics in Tannen's text easier to grasp.	2002-02-10
US	50680639	R2QXQMHEWNWD0X	0812212460	761920048	Talking Culture: Ethnography and Conversation Analysis (Conduct and Communication)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The Illuminating Light of Communication	Although the various essays in this book have different values, Society in a Grain of Rice, was a particularly insightful piece. Chapter One, Conversation Analysis, was not inspiring; Chapter Two, Life in Dry Dust, illuminated a conflict in people's values and how they might be shown or hidden in conversation. Chapter Four, Motives in Action, built on the earlier theme of hiding or showing material in a conversation by looking at how a researcher can find the purpose or motive in a conversation. But only Society in a Grain of Rice really connected to my imagination.<br /> This essay looks at how words are used differently in different societies. Words like I and you, for example, are not used in Thai -- I reflected as I read this that they are similarly omitted in Arabic, Korean and Japanese. Korean has no word for \\"you.\\"  I remember a Japanese gentleman even commenting on how much foreigners love to talk about themselves as illustrated by the excessive use of the Japanese word for I. In fact, the Americans in the company did not speak of themselves more than their Japanese counterparts, but the Japanese people simply omitted the word, \\"Watashi,\\" from the sentence when they spoke.<br /> I reflected also on the author's mention that the word, \\"Khap,\\" was often used in the rural areas of Thailand to mean, \\"Yes, I'm listening,\\" and not necessarily as it was preceived to mean by foreigners and Bangkok officials, \\"Yes, it will be done.\\"  I reflected on the social value of the verbal listening cues so prominent in Japanese and wondered if this were the problem I have experienced living in Egypt. Is it possible that the people I discuss rowing plans with at the Rowing Club where I volunteer actually mean to say, \\"Yes, I hear you,\\" and not \\"Yes, it will be done.\\" Often, I find that after I ask the captain if we can do something, he says, \\"Yes,\\" but then does something very different.  I now realize, thanks to Mr. Moerman, that it might not be the words themselves, but their socially embedded meaning that I mistook.<br /> Mr. Moerman's analysis of Geertz' description of the value of words triggered another revelation. Mr. Moerman argues in the book, that the meaning of the word need not be it's literal translation, but must be understood in the social process. He argues moreover that the value of spaces between the words, sounds like, \\"um, er, and laughter, that are not words,\\" must be understood. I suddenly realized that the entire process of learning Arabic in Egypt is not in the words.<br /> Arabic and Spanish are full of \\"honey talk,\\" and people most frequently do not listen to the words themselves.  Instead, they focus on the eyes and body language of the speaker.<br /> \\"Flowers\\" or a collection of compliments that are woven into daily conversations making them sound more pleasant are a standard means of communicating in Arabic, Spanish and Japanese.  Direct communication is less frequently used.  When I commented on this to my Japanese roommate, she said something fascinating.<br /> \\"It is only in America that you value vulgar talk as straight and direct, because you have so many different cultures. For other countries, like us Japanese, we do not need to be so explicit -- so vulgar -- because we can understand what we mean through subtly.\\"<br /> The truth of her statement struck me immediately. Egyptians do not value my straight talk, because they operate very well within the honey talk that they use. The only person struggling with the communication method is the foreign oberserver - me.<br /> Mr. Moerman's book shed a wealth of light on communication issues I have been struggling with for years.socially embedded meaning that I mistook.<br /> Mr. Moerman's analysis of Geertz' description of the value of words triggered another revelation. Mr. Moerman argues in the book, that the meaning of the word need not be it's literal translation, but must be understood in the social process. He argues moreover that the value of spaces between the words, sounds like, \\"um, er, and laughter, that are not words,\\" must be understood. I suddenly realized that the entire process of learning Arabic in Egypt is not in the words.<br /> Arabic and Spanish are full of \\"honey talk,\\" and people most frequently do not listen to the words themselves.  Instead, they focus on the eyes and body language of the speaker.<br /> \\"Flowers\\" or a collection of compliments that are woven into daily conversations making them sound more pleasant are a standard means of communicating in Arabic, Spanish and Japanese.  Direct communication is less frequently used.  When I commented on this to my Japanese roommate, she said something fascinating.<br /> \\"It is only in America that you value vulgar talk as straight and direct, because you have so many different cultures. For other countries, like us Japanese, we do not need to be so explicit -- so vulgar -- because we can understand what we mean through subtly.\\"<br /> The truth of her statement struck me immediately. Egyptians do not value my straight talk, because they operate very well within the honey talk that they use. The only person struggling with the communication method is the foreign oberserver - me.<br /> Mr. Moerman's book shed a wealth of light on communication issues I have been struggling with for years.	2002-02-03
US	50680639	R2PXZDP4W7R45G	041525406X	460648799	The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism (Routledge Classics) (Volume 91)	Books	5	5	18	N	N	A must read	Weber's work is, among other things, a great example of what happens when research goes bad. His work is most significant to academia because it shows what can happen when a researcher mistakenly assumes a causal relationship between two variables that are simply coincidentally related. Religion and capitalism is an excellent example and a call to vigilance for all researchers. It is particularly pertinent to this study where it might be easy to conclude too hastily about relationships between a respondent's religious, ethnic backgrounds, political affiliation or knowledge and the respondent's opinions.<br />It is now obvious the world that there is no link between Protestant religion and successful capitalism. Japan, Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Saudi Arabia and other nations that do not have Protestant Christianity as the primary religion in the country have become economically powerful. Nonetheless Weber's classic must be read, both as an example of a great mind and to show how even a great scholar can be lead astray. It is a reminder to all people to think critically at all times. For what seems obviously correct at the time, might very well be proved to be absolutely invalid.	2001-12-18
US	50680639	R10A2MB0LPRDUQ	0226504417	301649732	Connected: Engagements with Media (Late Editions: Cultural Studies for the End of the Century)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Exploratory Surgery	This collection of would-be anthropological writings primarily from Rice University authors is a much-needed addition to an area of society that has entirely insuffient coverage. Not only media, but cyberspace, has somehow escaped going under the social-anthropological microscope.<br />While this text does so, in some cases, quite well, in other pieces, the work is obviously exploratory, experiemental and possibly of questionable value.<br />The essay on the electronic venacular is, of course, already dated, but it is a detailed examination of the Internet from a user's perspective. The author looks at specific programs and how users employ them to express themselves. But it seems like a drop in a very large bucket of work that needs to be done on the growing globe of Internet users.<br />The essays A Torn Page, Framed and A Tale of an Internet are too abstract and experimental to be effective, but Computing for Tibet and Shades of Twilight were excellent pieces. Both grounded in specific communicators and communications and both exploring how the media are interacting with people politically, emotionally, personally. Dorine Kondo, who wrote Shades of Twilight, has done great scholarship in previous publications, so it's not surprise that her work her is excellent. She explores a new form of drama as a new form of communication. If I could rate the various essays separately from the whole book, I'd give her essay a solid 5 on the Amazon scale.<br />Also, scoring a 5 would be Rewriting New York City. The author examines graffiti as a form of expression. It's a new area and it's interesting to compare ideas of banning graffit as loss of freedom of speech and the autoBots on MSN chat room that give chatters the boot for typing the word, &quot;piss&quot; into a phrase in the chat room dialog. How much freedom of expression does the culture REALLY allow?<br />Good scholarship, new roads into new territories.	2001-12-18
US	50680639	RVDOCLH66X69K	0684836327	705194653	Suicide: A Study In Sociology	Books	5	61	67	N	N	Synthesis of intimately personal and powerfully public	Emile Durkheim's classic work tells us more than just details about suicide. Studying a powerfully individual phenomenon from a sociological perspective was, in its own right, an impressive undertaking. But what interests me more for sociology of media is the way Durkheim handled statistics. In the first chapter, he gives a series of examples that illustrate the danger in placing too much unexamined value in numerical data. He shows first that married people commit suicide more than singles, but then notes that single people include children who are unlikely to commit suicide. Therefore this data does not necessarily indicate a causal relationship between marriage and suicide. He adjusts the data, taking only people of marriage age and computes the data again. This time, single people commit suicide more than married people.  However, Durkheim then notes that single people will automatically include a larger portion of mentally or physically defunct people. He therefore concludes that there is not sufficient data to make a conclusion about a causal relationship between suicide and marital status. This is really little more than mental exercise, but it is a critical one for any one employing survey methods and statistical analysis. The researcher must be vigilant in analyzing data to ensure avoiding errors in logic.<br /> Durkheim's study in sociology contributes much more than this detail to the social sciences, but for my purposes of analyzing the sociology of media, this is the most critical point.	2001-12-18
US	50680639	R22U9QSAV74DU9	039473954X	586555842	Power/Knowledge: Selected Interviews and Other Writings, 1972-1977	Books	5	15	20	N	N	Looking into the web of power	The relationship between knowledge, truth and power are critical elements in cross-cultural sociological study. Foucault details the relationship between these elements. The relationship between these elements relates directly to global media. If media is predominately produced in one geographic region and exported to another, power in terms of the right to representation, is automatically usurped by the production of truth, by the production of culture, production nationalistic images, by the production of media. Foucault's writings on the Archaeology of Knowledge and it's relationship to geography have a direct relation to geo-political structures and their interdependency with media forms and media audiences. Institutions, such as universities, which reinforce their own forms of knowledge, are likewise either undermined or reinforced by media forms. The relationship between these social components is never neutral, according to Foucault.<br />\\"Power is employed and exercised through a net-like organization. And not only do individuals circulate between its threads; they are always in the position of simultaneously undergoing and exercising power.\\" Power is much more abstract, by Foucault's definitions than any previous theorists described it. It is not necessarily a conscious, intentional application of force. Power can be the relationships between components of a society or the relationship between societies. This very subtly makes the analysis of power, more complex and yet more engaging.<br />Media continues the construction of knowledge. Universities and other such institutions begin the process and sanction it -- provide it \\"an expert system\\" by which it is validated. However, the media reinforces this validation by replicating it in mass quantity. The media can, likewise, have the opposite effect, depending on its representation. If a given BBC program highlights the academic excellence of Harvard University, but bemoans the loss of academic excellence in al Azhar, for example. Then the media is undermining the construction of knowledge and the institution of al Azhar while simultaneously reinforcing the disequilibrium of political and economic structures surrounding al Azhar. Foucault's Power/Knowledge provides the platform from which to analyze these transformations.l Azhar, for example. Then the media is undermining the construction of knowledge and the institution of al Azhar while simultaneously reinforcing the disequilibrium of political and economic structures surrounding al Azhar. Foucault's Power/Knowledge provides the platform from which to analyze these transformations.	2001-12-17
US	50680639	R2PSDHKW87P6C0	0520048989	232325075	Europe and the People Without History: With a New Preface	Books	5	47	54	N	N	An interconnected history	Wolf breaks the paradigm that the world ever was full of isolated pockets of civilized people void of contact with others. By tracing routes of fur trade, slave trade, early movements of people, materials and ideas, Wolf examines the world before Europe \\"civilized\\" the world. He is able to show how contact with European traders change the lifestyles of groups of people who already had fully developed cultural, linguistic and political traditions. How trade, bureaucracy, military force and violence influenced the people with whom the traders contacted illustrates the fact that \\"globalization\\" is hardly a recent phenomenon.<br /> This provides the background for understanding the current changes in the transition of ideas in the world. Without Wolf's excellent work, it becomes possible to get lulled into the trap that the \\"Internet\\" changed the world. In fact, it did not provide contact for people where none previously existed. Electronic media does provide a new medium by which the transfer of ideas can take place. It changes the nature of that transmission, but it does not create a transmission where none previously existed.	2001-12-17
US	50680639	R6J2C2XXBZ5D	0534533256	779455822	How It's Done: An Invitation to Social Research	Books	3	5	11	N	N	A good start	This text provided the most basic background for selecting the sampling technique. This book is an excellent introduction to basic survey research and provided the framework from which to consider this project. As this project goes beyond the scope of this text, it became necessarily to imagine what alternatives existed given the material provided in this text. Some of the options were available in other texts, such as books on SPSS and GIS computer software, as well as some of the information in Ethnography Step by Step, which provided additional information on computer data collection options available to researchers.	2001-12-17
US	50680639	R3JUWW245JMPJ4	0394713400	814649572	The Foucault Reader	Books	4	38	52	N	N	Goes down easy	This volume includes some classic Foucault essays, like the segment from Birth of the Asylum in which Foucault explains how the asylum sets up controls by means of perpetual observation and perpetual judgement. By continually observing and judging people, the impetus for conformity is laid to rest, becomes less visible, less obvious and subsequently, according to Foucault, all the more powerful because of its restrained state. This is a similar theme in the segment Panopticism where Foucault shows a transition in prison systems from physical manipulation to implicit manipulation. This new form of control is implemented through a physical construction that creates the illusion of continual surveillance. This surveillance creates the impetus for self-control. It ties in rather tightly with earlier discussions by Elias and Bordeau on etiquette. Etiquette is enforced and reinforced by the social force of shame and embarrassment. People control themselves out of a desire not to be looked down upon - to control their own public reputations. Panopticism works in a similar way - by continual observation or the illusion of continual observation, people are expected to continually discipline themselves so as to avoid being disciplined by an external source.<br />  This discussion of self-disciplining the self is an interesting paradigm to work with in the electronic media. TV personnel have certain self-imposed expectations - far beyond state censorship and far more powerful, the desire to be respected by one's peers and superiors, controls the content of the media. Similarly, chatters on the Net are divided on a range along this self-imposed discipline from those who deliberately say the most absurd things just because they are outside the Panopticon to those who continue to hold real whole expectations of themselves in the virtual world. Between these two is a whole range of behaviors from constructing wildly inaccurate selves for Net view to \\"white lies\\" about age, weight, hair color, etc. The Net is interesting precisely because it falls outside the daily life which is observed and surveyed, i.e. similar in structure to a social Panopticon and TV news is interesting because it is a much more highly judged arena to step into. Foucault's writing provides more points from which to view the same sociological problem, allowing a researcher to more ably unpack issues embedded in the study.hair color, etc. The Net is interesting precisely because it falls outside the daily life which is observed and surveyed, i.e. similar in structure to a social Panopticon and TV news is interesting because it is a much more highly judged arena to step into. Foucault's writing provides more points from which to view the same sociological problem, allowing a researcher to more ably unpack issues embedded in the study.	2001-12-17
US	50680639	R2XHEQ38730IEV	0195067746	847990769	Before European Hegemony: The World System A.D. 1250-1350	Books	4	16	22	N	N	Continuity in global connections -- the rest of the history	In much the same way that Eric Wolf shows the world before European conquest in his book titled Europe and the People Without History starting in 1400, Abu-Lughod begins before the European trade routes by ship. She traces the cross-continent trade routes of India, China and the Mediterranean. By looking back to these early systems of trade, Abu-Lughod shows how ideas, foods, language and people were transported between regions of the earth long before colonialism took hold. By looking at movements of people and ideas before Europe's world domination, Abu-Lughod is able to take a new look at the future - a perspective that does not seem as deterministic as other historic views. Europe was not necessarily \\"destined\\" to become the greatest region on the planet and it need not be in the future.<br />This new look at history provides a wider framework from which to understand the current era. While it is true that computer technology and the spread of the Internet has been facilitated predominately by English-speaking programmers and subsequently English-based programs, this might not be the wave of the future. Looking at how vast regions of the planet interacted centuries ago provides a better base from which to understand how they might interact in the future. The people from the same geo-political regions that Abu-Lughod describes in her book are now \\"commuting\\" or \\"traveling\\" and conversing via electronic media. How will the new instrument of communication change the way these people share time and space?	2001-12-17
US	50680639	R2FMKSUN9EJ0W2	0860915468	314108816	Imagined Communities: Reflections on the Origin and Spread of Nationalism	Books	4	120	129	N	N	Excellent Work in Nailing down Nationalism	In Imagined Communities, Anderson gives a detailed analysis of nation building projects and their relationship to print media. Nationalism has been a difficult concept to define. Some like King Faisal's right hand man, Sati Al-Husri, defined nationalism by language. In contrast, Anderson defines nationalism as a construction created in imagination by print media. \\"It is imagined because the members of even the smallest nation will never know most of their fellow-members,\\" Anderson explains. Moreover, \\"It is imagined as a community, because, regardless of the actual inequality and exploitation that may prevail in each, the nation is always conceived as a deep, horizontal comradeship. Ultimately, it is this fraternity that makes it possible, over the past two centuries for so many millions of people, not so much to kill, as willingly to die for such limited imaginings.\\"<br /> Anderson looks at the early communities, which he says were mostly constructed around religious ideologies and were linked by the publication of books on those religious concepts. These original \\"communities\\" did not necessarily confine themselves to a given geo-political unit. However, newspapers made it possible for people in a geographically vast region to discuss the same topic at the local coffee shop, coffer or workshop. This, says Anderson, had a powerful impact on the creation of an imagined community, called a nation. Anderson then begins to look at conglomerate pioneers as a contrast to nation-state building projects. In this area, he discusses market-zones, similar to, but preceding organizations like the European Union. Who would die for such a construction? asks Anderson. He makes a distinction between this kind of imagined community and the imagined community of the nation-state.<br /> Anderson's historical examination of the construction of nationalism seems to have merits. However, he leaves open the idea that it is an ongoing and dynamic process. This text lays the foundation for future examinations of &quot;imagined communities&quot; in new forms. Media appears to be a critical social component in Anderson's argument. If that is the case, there is another question that follows. What happens when the forms of media change? What happens when media, that was, at one time, limited to a geographical location becomes global? What happens when media forms that were at one time, linguistically limited, expand to bilingual or possibly even multilingual components? Anderson's book provides a great framework from which to do future scholarship.future examinations of &quot;imagined communities&quot; in new forms. Media appears to be a critical social component in Anderson's argument. If that is the case, there is another question that follows. What happens when the forms of media change? What happens when media, that was, at one time, limited to a geographical location becomes global? What happens when media forms that were at one time, linguistically limited, expand to bilingual or possibly even multilingual components? Anderson's book provides a great framework from which to do future scholarship.	2001-11-23
US	50680639	R1UXSSE20TFOAV	0449911845	191044082	Beware the Naked Man Who Offers You His Shirt: Do What You Love, Love What You Do, and Deliver More Than You Promise	Books	4	30	33	N	N	Basic, no-nonsense information that is immediately useful	Harvey Mackay suggests basic details in this book, like being aware of how respectfully you address a someone else's secretary, but as simple as these suggestions are, they are critical. I read this book while I was on the public relations/sales team for the Marine Corps recruiting station in Kansas City. As a result of his principles of respect for people, care in personal committments and follow-through on obligations, I earned a quarter million dollars in documented free advertising per quarter for my firm. Needless to say, I won numerous awards and ample recognition from my superiors.<br />Mackey's brand of professionalism -- of delivering what you promise -- is as effective and productive as it is simple. He does keep it simple, but this book is not short on value. After completing the Xerox School of Sales, I was assigned to work with the J.Walter Thompson advertising firm. This company adheres to Mackey's basic concepts. Later, I worked for a Japanese firm in Tokyo; again, they adhered to Mackey's concepts of sound business practices. Currently, I'm living in Cairo, Egypt, and I find that too few Egyptian companies adhere to Mackey's ideas of committment to customer service. They could definitely learn how to improve sales, keep old customers and earn new ones if everyone from the top executives to the clerks and receptionists read this book.	2001-11-14
US	50680639	RE9R0K8RYMCJK	0933031572	950322640	Once upon a Time When We Were Colored	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Hope for humanity	Clifton Taulbert gives me hope and inspiration as writer -- his words are so carefully crafted, his view of the world is sincere and filled with an uplifting vision. His vivid description leads me to believe that even in the midst of the chaos and destruction we now inhabit, humanity may yet find a path to a better world. He is a truly inspiring writer; this is a truly inspiring book!	2001-11-14
US	50680639	R1FVRR4O6O2P01	0803984472	993962119	Interpreting Audiences: The Ethnography of Media Consumption (Media Culture & Society series)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A good introduction to media studies	Shaun Moores' book doesn't give much new data. He didn't conduct any of his own research. His is primarily a theory book, but it has a great overview of previous authors' presentations of media analysis.<br />He begins by describing &quot;Screen Theory&quot; -- the result of a British journal, Screen, whose contributors analysed media using semiotics, Marxism and a French brand of psychoanalysis. They used this approach to see what kind of &quot;impact&quot; a given text had on its audience. Partly in response to Screen Theory, the Media Group at Birmingham University's Center for Contemporary Cultural Studies developed a concept of 'uses and gratifications' or Gratificationists Theory asking what people DO with media. David Morley was a big part of this movement with his 'Nationwide' Audience.<br /> The CCCS writers contributed another concept to media studies -- that is the encoding and decoding of media texts. Using an idea from Bordieu, cultural capital, in determining how capable viewers are in decoding a given text.<br /> Morley's book, Nationwide, focuses on the text-to-reader relationship, but later writing, including Morley's own Family Television, examines at how people incorporate media into their daily lives. The context of media, people's preferences and family power structures in whose preference takes precidence became the focus for later studies. Later still, unexamined subgroups become the focal point -- such as differences in genre preferences between the genders and children's abilities to decode media.<br /> Moores then discussed the role of changing technologies in media and family life. The early availability of radio is used as an example. Early radios were considered &quot;man's world&quot; of 'gagets.' When only a headset would allow a person to listen, who could use the headset provided an access point to analysis of family power flows. Later, as radio technology developed and broadcasting allowed the whole family to listen together, the social dynamics surrounding the radio changed. This provides an interesting historical case study that could be applied to other media forms, such as computers or the Internet. Understanding or analysing availablity and the economic and cultural capital that fascilitates access to the Internet could contribute to clarity in the value of the Internet in the global village.<br /> Finally, Moores unpacks the concept of understanding audiences by their demographics. Overall, a very useful piece of scholarship in the field of media sociology.cial dynamics surrounding the radio changed. This provides an interesting historical case study that could be applied to other media forms, such as computers or the Internet. Understanding or analysing availablity and the economic and cultural capital that fascilitates access to the Internet could contribute to clarity in the value of the Internet in the global village.<br /> Finally, Moores unpacks the concept of understanding audiences by their demographics. Overall, a very useful piece of scholarship in the field of media sociology.	2001-11-12
US	50680639	RMMPMHB4FOVDQ	0815603754	653135101	The Nation of Islam: An American Millenarian Movement	Books	3	3	6	N	Y	Insightful history, but marginal psychosociological theory	Martha Lee paints a vivid and accurate picture of the early days and development of the Nation of Islam. Her text was required reading in a sociology of religion course at the university. However, her first chapter that attempts to psychologically tie American Muslims with millenarian cults fails the test of logic. Her relationship between American Muslims and cults predicting the end of the world and subsequently dealing with the &quot;cognitive dissonance&quot; that results does not fit the facts.<br />That said, her book answered many questions for me about the dissonance between Middle Eastern and American Muslims. It appears that Elijah Mohammad was reaching rather desparately for a means by which to empower African-American people who were under seige in the 1930s and 1940s. It appears that without clearly understanding what he was grabbing, he caught hold of Islam. Islam for Elijah was the antidote to &quot;white&quot; man's Christianity. Elijah saw Islam as the &quot;black&quot; man's religion. It appears that he failed utterly to understand Islam as the continuation and extension of Christianity. The idea that all the prophets of Christianity are also prophets of Islam was lost on Elijah. The realization that Mohamed is simply the last in a long line of what Egyptians call the &quot;Ebrahamic faith&quot; prophets, which include both Christianity and Judeism was lost on Elijah.<br />This historical and spiritual information was not, however, lost on Malcom X who was much more erudite than Elijah. The book as well as the movie Malcom X illuminates a man who had just come into his greatest realization of his own spirituality and the world around him at the time of his death. Had Malcom X lived, he might very well have become a powerful force not only the Black community, but also in the Nation and perhaps even the globe.<br />Martha opens doors for me into the history of American Muslims to details I had never before dreamed. Islam provided the impetus for thousands of African-Americans to empower themselves with unity, education, professionalism. It was a positive and powerful force in the lives of many. Whatever mistakes Elijah may have made in his misunderstanding of this religion have been corrected by the new generation of American Muslims who have since joined with Arab scholars to better understand their faith and their religion.<br />This book is really excellent.usands of African-Americans to empower themselves with unity, education, professionalism. It was a positive and powerful force in the lives of many. Whatever mistakes Elijah may have made in his misunderstanding of this religion have been corrected by the new generation of American Muslims who have since joined with Arab scholars to better understand their faith and their religion.<br />This book is really excellent.	2001-10-14
US	50680639	R1CU84AOO4IC2C	039474067X	254566048	Orientalism	Books	5	35	45	N	N	Ground-breaking scholarship	Edward Said would say that both demonizing and deifying are problematic because both are distortions and Said wanted to decrease distortion. And so it is that his work has been criticized and praised in a manner that mirrors this distortion through demonizing and deifying.  Edward Said's ground-breaking work has been critized on many levels. Some say his writing does not allow adequate agency for Arab and Asian people. In some cases, his examples of historic authors who are allegedly discrediting the \\"Orient,\\" actually seem to be worshipping.<br />Regardless of the critics, I found the work wholely enlightening.  There are so many details of EuroAmerican travel literature which was so profoundly and disturbingly racist.  This book gives me a new insight into the history of the way people in EuroAmerica used to think about \\"The Rest\\" meaning everything that was not \\"The West.\\"  Edward's work provide s a new way to examine racism -- not from a purely emotional or coldly statistical perspective, but from literary and academic perspectives. This book is a close examination of how racism in many forms, Arab, Asian or \\"Other,\\" permeates the institutions of the world. Dangerously, these \\"authoritative\\" views of Other people become acceptable ways of talking about each other. In this way, racism becomes embedded in the educational systems, in the universities, in the libraries of the world.  Elimating it becomes all the more difficult, because it creates the illusion that it is natural, authentic, scientific and rational.<br />Said's Orientalism is an excellent work that I strongly recommend to anyone trying to understand the world, especially the Middle East. Breaking out of the International media paradigms is difficult without some assistance. Said provides the necessary assistance.	2001-10-14
US	50680639	R30E6EH224TM2V	0449210502	555634658	The Bridge at Andau: The Compelling True Story of a Brave, Embattled People	Books	5	26	28	N	N	The Rest of the Soviet Story: Hungary's pain	When I first read about teenage children disabling tanks and killing the occupants with rocks, clubs and bottles filled with gasoline, I thought the Marines could learn a lot from these children. Their communication, teamwork and overwhelming dedication amazed me.<br /> I read about a 12-year-old boy who strapped a half-dozen grenades to his body, pulled a wire to pull all the pins and stepped in front of the tracks of a tank.  After the tank ran him over and killed him, the grenades went off, derailing the tracks and disabling the tank, so that other children could throw gasoline bottles inside the turret to kill the drivers.  I realized then this was not military mastery, but desperation spawned from people who had nothing left to live for.<br /> &quot;It should not have happened,&quot; said the minister who told the story of the 12-year-old boy. &quot;Somebody should have stopped such a child. But he knew what he was fighting against.&quot;<br /> &quot;The Bridge at Andau,&quot; by James Albert Michener, is based on interviews with survivors of the 1956 Hungarian uprising against communist Soviet occupation.  Written in 1957, the book was checked out of the Depot library five times during the late 50s and early 60s. From then on, it has silently gathered dust on the shelf.  Within three years after the uprising, interest in the estimated 40,000 to 80,000 Hungarians slaughtered by the Soviets had vanished.<br /> This book tells the story of the Soviet expansionist theory which was not taught in the Woodland High School.  Instructors provided amazingly lukewarm descriptions of Soviet Communist Theory as a philosophy of taking care of the common people.<br /> The &quot;Bridge at Andau&quot;, in simple language and vivid imagery, describes the actions of brave and desperate people fighting to escape the domination of the &quot;Red Bear.&quot;  In the five days following the expulsion of the initial soviet troops, Hungarians prayed for American intervention which did not come.  In the third and final phase of the fight for independence, the Soviets returned to Hungary in a fury of modern tanks and a mechanized army with hundreds of thousands of soldiers who had orders to shoot everyone and everything.<br /> &quot;When the victorious Soviets finally entered the castle itself, the final bastion, only thirty young Hungarians remained to walk out proudly under the white flag of surrender,&quot; according to the book. &quot;For three days they (teenage children) had withstood the terrible concentration of Soviet power, and they had conducted themselves as veritable heroes. The gallant Soviet commander waited until they were well clear of the walls; then with one burst of machine-gun fire, he executed the lot.&quot;<br /> This book not only tells the horrors of Soviet-occupied Hungary, but provides insight to all countries that struggled under Soviet reign.  On its pages are the horrors of torturous militia which &quot;encouraged&quot; confessions from the most devout would-be communists.  These crimes against humanity, similar in many instances to those suffered at the hands of Nazi's but less publicized.  Due to lack of media interest, this uprising, although bloody and foul, never caught the concern of the world.  The people in this tiny country never gained a champion for their cause.  And, so lived in terror until the Soviet Union disintegrated in 1990.not come.  In the third and final phase of the fight for independence, the Soviets returned to Hungary in a fury of modern tanks and a mechanized army with hundreds of thousands of soldiers who had orders to shoot everyone and everything.<br /> &quot;When the victorious Soviets finally entered the castle itself, the final bastion, only thirty young Hungarians remained to walk out proudly under the white flag of surrender,&quot; according to the book. &quot;For three days they (teenage children) had withstood the terrible concentration of Soviet power, and they had conducted themselves as veritable heroes. The gallant Soviet commander waited until they were well clear of the walls; then with one burst of machine-gun fire, he executed the lot.&quot;<br /> This book not only tells the horrors of Soviet-occupied Hungary, but provides insight to all countries that struggled under Soviet reign.  On its pages are the horrors of torturous militia which &quot;encouraged&quot; confessions from the most devout would-be communists.  These crimes against humanity, similar in many instances to those suffered at the hands of Nazi's but less publicized.  Due to lack of media interest, this uprising, although bloody and foul, never caught the concern of the world.  The people in this tiny country never gained a champion for their cause.  And, so lived in terror until the Soviet Union disintegrated in 1990.	2001-10-10
US	50680639	RMLQUHIBJVLFG	1883011523	22995891	James Baldwin : Collected Essays : Notes of a Native Son / Nobody Knows My Name / The Fire Next Time / No Name in the Street / The Devil Finds Work / Other Essays (Library of America)	Books	5	48	56	N	N	A painful, powerful experience	In Egypt, I met an extraordinary American.<br />  \\"I was born in New York, but have only lived in pockets of it. In Paris, I lived in all parts of the city - on the Right Bank and on the Left, among the bourgeoisie and among les miserables, and knew all kinds of people from pimps and prostitutes in Pigalle to Egyptian bankers in Nueilly. This may sound unprincipled or even obscurely immoral: I found it healthy. I love to talk to people, all kinds of people, and almost everyone, as I hope we still know, loves a man who loves to listen,\\" he said.<br />  \\"The perpetual dealing with people very different from myself caused a shattering in me of preconceptions I scarcely knew I held. This reassessment, which can be very painful, is also very valuable.\\"<br />  His name is Mr. Baldwin, and I cherish this new acquaintance because his ideas have had such profound impact on my views of Egypt. I wanted to know the people, but as I reach out for them, sometimes, I'm shocked by what I see. I see people sleeping on the concrete patios along the Nile - many of them have migrated from the farmlands because they can make more money for their families if they work in Cairo. But desert nights can be bitter cold in January, and it cuts my heart. Yet, Mr. Baldwin's message is well heeded. The same problems of inner city growth that come with development in Egypt also came with development in Britain one hundred years ago. American inner city schools and slums still reflect this challenge.<br />Would I have walked into the slums of Chicago if I were there? Would I have strolled through the southwest side of Kansas City or east St. Louis? Would I have walked into the anti-developing city blocks of L.A. if I were in America? Of course not. So why is it that traveling abroad opens my eyes to poverty in America? Why couldn't I see it when I was there? I don't know why this happens, but James Baldwin was right - absolutely right when he said that this reassessment, which can be very painful is also very valuable.<br />  I have been told that the housing shortage in Egypt provided the impetus for many people to move into the spacious mausoleums in the old city graveyard. The international visitors call it, \\"The City of the Dead,\\" and tourists go there and gawk at poverty creating a makeshift freak show out of human suffering. Then I learned that the housing shortage in Los Angeles provided the impetus for many people to move into mausoleums, but no one goes to gawk at them. In fact, there seems to be a kind of American denial that such things could ever happen in the land of milk and honey.<br />  As I hear of people talking about human rights violations in Egypt, I think of the title of James Baldwin's book: Nobody Knows My Name. I think of James Byrd who was dragged to death behind a pickup truck. I think of the threats of millennium violence that frightened black American families so much that they bought guns and stayed home for the New Year. I think of the tiny city in Texas who voted Spanish as their city's official language and then received death threats from all over the nation. Of course, if you asked any American about human rights violations, they would tell you that this is something that happens in China or Africa. It's a painful realization that it might happen in MY country. Growing up in the American school system, I came to idolize Abraham Lincoln's courage and George Washington's integrity. The universal ideas of human value and dignity that we believe to be inalienable are not, as Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. so wisely told us, being applied universally in our country. These facts go against the ideals and values of our nation - they don't support the concepts of the free and the brave.<br />  \\"It is a complex fate to be an American,\\" Henry James observed. James Baldwin awakened me to that complexity in a way so subtle, so gentle and yet, so powerfully painful.<br /> He awakened me to the hard realities of the American people, most ofwhom will never read or digest his work. They would dismiss him. But his vision is not to be dismissed. His writing illustrates that the responsibility of this future lies in the hands of blind people. People who refuse to see American neighborhoods and American people for what they really are. We can't improve until we accept the starting point. This lofty ideal of what we should be and blind obstinacy to what we are is killing us.<br /> \\"Europe has what we do not have yet,\\" Baldwin said. \\"A sense of the mysterious and inexorable limits of life, a sense, in a word, of tragedy. And we have what they sorely need: a new sense of life's possibilities.\\"<br /> Egypt has what we do not yet have - a clear and present sense of unity - an admiration for sacrifice for the whole of the group - the nuclear family, the extended family, the community. And we have absolutely nothing that Egypt needs, except, if you ask the younger generation: Nike shoes. In fact, this is precisely what Egyptians do not need. They do not need the destructive, greed-inspiring and greed-glorifying economic development of the West.<br />\\"In this endeavor to wed the vision of the Old World with that of the New, it is the writer, not the statesman, who is our strongest arm. Though we do not wholly believe it yet, the interior life is a real life, and the intangible dreams of people have tangible effect on the world.\\" - James Baldwinwhom will never read or digest his work. They would dismiss him. But his vision is not to be dismissed. His writing illustrates that the responsibility of this future lies in the hands of blind people. People who refuse to see American neighborhoods and American people for what they really are. We can't improve until we accept the starting point. This lofty ideal of what we should be and blind obstinacy to what we are is killing us.<br /> \\"Europe has what we do not have yet,\\" Baldwin said. \\"A sense of the mysterious and inexorable limits of life, a sense, in a word, of tragedy. And we have what they sorely need: a new sense of life's possibilities.\\"<br /> Egypt has what we do not yet have - a clear and present sense of unity - an admiration for sacrifice for the whole of the group - the nuclear family, the extended family, the community. And we have absolutely nothing that Egypt needs, except, if you ask the younger generation: Nike shoes. In fact, this is precisely what Egyptians do not need. They do not need the destructive, greed-inspiring and greed-glorifying economic development of the West.<br />\\"In this endeavor to wed the vision of the Old World with that of the New, it is the writer, not the statesman, who is our strongest arm. Though we do not wholly believe it yet, the interior life is a real life, and the intangible dreams of people have tangible effect on the world.\\" - James Baldwin	2001-10-10
US	50680639	R1U61CF79D2OBM	0345391802	458212829	The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy	Books	5	1	2	N	N	&quot;Welcome to the REAL World&quot;	This book has created a global cult following. I find that the experience of having read it, connects me to so many people in such a variety of backgrounds. High school students, PhD professors, Americans, Norwegians, Buddhists and Muslims. People in Japan, in Egypt -- people in so many walks of life connect with Douglas Adams references.<br />It is such a great experience as a book that the world can gain Douglas Adams references. We describe the inadequacy of the administration systems in our college by talking about how the main character in Hitchhiker's Guide had gone round to see the display department. He finally found the plans in a locked lavatory with a sign that said, &quot;Beware of Leopard.&quot;<br />That's the display department.<br />It was dark.<br />Well the lights had gone.<br />So had the stairs.<br />This book comically captures the world we are living it. It is a great relief from what has gone wrong with the whole modernity plan. It mocks religious conflict, overbearing leadership and failed communications. To keep your sanity in the modern world, read this book.	2001-10-04
US	50680639	ROOSY5DIZ3PHH	0761913858	136846780	Ethnography: Step-by-Step, Second Edition [Applied Social Research Methods Series, Volume 17]	Books	5	39	39	N	N	A lifetime resource as well as a great introduction	I'm surprised I've studied Anthropology this long without this book. It is simple, linear and effective. David Fetterman takes the beginner through all the necessary thought processes and equipment required to do research. More importantly, he includes a whole section of resource material in one book. Everything from Web sites with research data to List Serves that have anthropological material to associations, their phone numbers, email addresses and Web sites. He includes a detailed listing of software and freeware that can help a reseacher, complete with a brief explanation of the use and value.<br />Moreover, he noted that when the first edition came out in 1989, there was no World Wide Web, so that by the time this book was published in 1998, it was undoubtedly already out of date. Subsequently, he has set up a Web page to accompany the text with a more up-to-date listing of software, freeware, List Serves, technological advances and WebSites.<br />This book is a great tool!<br />Fetterman gives user friendly definitions of many of the most daunting terms in the field of anthropology.<br />Emic = insider's or native's perspective. Etic = external or social science perspective. Proxemitics = study of how the socially defined physical distance between people varies in differing social circumstances. Kinesics = body language study. Operationalism = defining one's terms and methods of measurement. Terms like micro and macro level studies, open and closed probes, structural and attribute questions are not only defined, but are put into practice with short examples.<br />Fetterman briefly describes research methods such as projection techniques and triangulation -- gives examples of their use, advantages and drawbacks.<br />He details specific uses for specific programs, like MicNotePad that turns the researchers portable computer into a tape recorder and aids in transcribing the material.<br />This book is an essential tool for any student, undergrad, graduate or post graduate in anthropology or social sciences in general.st graduate in anthropology or social sciences in general.	2001-10-02
US	50680639	R1BNKO2YSS673	0385486804	674569455	Into the Wild	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Into the Self	Jon Krakauer does a great job of recreating a human -- a soul in flight in this wonderful book. He captures the essence of a powerful mountaineer and individualist that Krakauer himself seems to admire. He retains the mystery of the story despite the tremendous research he does.<br />This book connected so directly to my heart. For anyone who loves adventure when spiced with introspection, philosophy and reflection, this book is a must read.	2001-10-02
US	50680639	R1XEFUDCFWA9PR	0380012863	129257055	Jonathan Livingston Seagull	Books	5	2	4	N	Y	Shaped my life	I related so powerfully to this book that I have allowed Richard Bach's words to shape my life. I believe strongly in the ideas that he proposes in this simple, short story -- that forging your own path is always the best option. I have done so in Jonathon Livingston style, serving as a woman in the nearly all male U.S. military branch, the Marines; skydiving, rock climbing, learning aerobatics in a Cessna, attending undergraduate college in Japan and now, attending graduate school in Egypt.<br />The second message of Bach's book is not just to forge your own path, but to encourage others to do the same -- to choose their own paths and to inspire them to their own individual greatness. I try whenever and wherever I see possible to do so.<br />Jonathan Livingston Seagull lives!	2001-10-02
US	50680639	R3C839RNRWAWHA	0803939981	179997756	Living the Ethnographic Life (Qualitative Research Methods)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Simple, brief overview of enthographic issues	Dan Rose discusses the history of ethnography and why it should be suspect if the research and writing is done without sufficient reflexivity. He points out some of the drawbacks -- what happens when students who have been acculturated in a somewhat rigid academic environment and then, in the field, fail to retain sufficient flexibility.<br />He points out that what ethnographers say they do is not always what they really do. &quot;I distrust those who admit to 'letting the data' tell them what to do and think, because what they learned to let the data do represents only a marginal difference from structuring it self-consciously.&quot;<br />Underlying Rose's description of the history and art of ethnography is a powerful skepticism as to whether it can really do what ethnographers want it to do. He points out corporate constraints on the ethnographic life that makes it inherently contradictory.<br />What we read as graduate students, what our worldviews are, what our anxieties are, such as feminists, largely determines the questions we, as ethnographers, ask people in different cultures. In many cases, our concerns create a vast gulf between our issues and the people we wish to study. This reality makes the task of effective ethnography extremely challenging.<br />He uses a great example of Anthony and Judy Seeger who were studying ritual in the lives of the Suya of Brazil's Matto Grosso. As the team had pre-chosen which features of life they wanted to study, they failed to study the most dominate feature happening at that moment according to Rose, which was the loss of culture due to increasing contact with global forces and a scramble to find ways to deal with the new cultural formations and identities that were forming.<br />However, his text is not so foreboding. He finishes on a positive note, mapping out the ways that the future of culture of ethnography itself may change in order to adapt a more proficient method of accounting for the previous short-sightedness of ethnographers. By using effective reflexivity, the author's own voice and emotional reactions, the poetry, fiction, imagery and voices of the people being studied and being aware of the potential for repeating the mistakes of previous generations of ethnographers, Rose says that ethnography can come into a new era of contribution to humanity.ss of ethnographers. By using effective reflexivity, the author's own voice and emotional reactions, the poetry, fiction, imagery and voices of the people being studied and being aware of the potential for repeating the mistakes of previous generations of ethnographers, Rose says that ethnography can come into a new era of contribution to humanity.	2001-10-01
US	50680639	R1Z1WAQKLWKGI3	0415095972	82932048	Spaces of Identity: Global Media, Electronic Landscapes and Cultural Boundaries (International Library of Sociology)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	The British view of television imperialism	In many ways this book didn't connect to me, because it has a powerful British perspective that fails to relate other readers to the material. Nonetheless, it is a well-written and much-needed analysis of the impact of media on the &quot;global village.&quot;<br /> The problem of mis-representations and of misappropriation of the right to represent other cultures comes through clearly with effective research to support the claims. It is particularly effective now, after the collapse of the World Trade Center Towers in the US which I watched on TV in Cairo, Egypt. The local news channel carried the CNN footage with local announcers explaining the events in Arabic.<br /> The monopoly of US news media is all the more obvious as I read this book with its discussions about the Gulf War being an extension of Orientalism -- where Saddam Hussein is demonized for his &quot;inherent irrationality&quot; and the &quot;armies of Reason&quot; must then suppress &quot;the crazed monstrous Unreason.&quot;<br /> &quot;The media then allowed a kind of para-social, thrilled involvement in the obliteration of the monstrous Other.&quot;<br /> This demonisation of the Other was taking place now with the CNN representation of Osama Bin Laden and the Taliban. The Taliban in particular are the target of the national news media and their primary crime seems to be in their choice of lifestyle. They have become for the US, the new &quot;crazed, monstrous Unreason.&quot;<br />  Morley's book is both particularly timely now, in the wake of the WTC attack and a bit outdated. His text does not address the Internet which is the real new media. He discusses only the One-Way conversation between the West (as producers of the world's news media and Hollywood cinema) and the Rest as the consumers of the Western media. After the WTC attack, some three-quarters of the US population went online to discuss the attack. In these chat rooms, they encountered people from other nations. What David Morley says of the news media is true, it is a one-way conversation. But it is not true of the chat rooms. In these rooms, people from all over the world contested the American view of Arabs or Muslims as the 'one true evil' on the planet and other similarly misguided stereotypes. In some conversations, Arab Muslims themselves contested views of their own cultures.<br /> David Morley's text, published just six years ago, may already be out of date in respect to the media dialog. In today's new medias, anyone who can construct a Web site, anyone who can log on to a chat room may be able to contribute to the world's dialog. The question is now a Foucauldian one: Who speaks? Who listens? and who is silenced?f the news media is true, it is a one-way conversation. But it is not true of the chat rooms. In these rooms, people from all over the world contested the American view of Arabs or Muslims as the 'one true evil' on the planet and other similarly misguided stereotypes. In some conversations, Arab Muslims themselves contested views of their own cultures.<br /> David Morley's text, published just six years ago, may already be out of date in respect to the media dialog. In today's new medias, anyone who can construct a Web site, anyone who can log on to a chat room may be able to contribute to the world's dialog. The question is now a Foucauldian one: Who speaks? Who listens? and who is silenced?	2001-09-29
US	50680639	R2NHSEDT7428K0	0395911532	420569631	Health and Healing	Books	5	12	14	N	Y	A whole new view of medical systems	Andrew Weil's book was assigned as supplmental reading in a sociology of health and healing systems course at Park College in Southern California. With phrases like, &quot;nothing works all the time and everything works some of the time,&quot; Andrew explored health systems worldwide from accupuncture in China to witchdoctors in Latin America. The idea that Western doctors actually gain much of their credibility not because of their own skills, but because they take credit for what the body already does is interesting. Health and medicine previously seemed like a highly scientific study, but viewed from Andrew's perspective, it is, in many ways, philosophically and culturally specific. Andrew brings a whole new world to medicine. Fascinting perspective.	2001-06-03
US	50680639	R3OC3N8DM7K24B	0394714393	830289349	Something Like An Autobiography	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The Heart of Hope	This wonderful text brings the reader directly into one of the greatest minds in film history. Open, honest, real, Kurosawa shares his hopes, his fears, his true self with the reader. For those who admire Kurosawa's work, this book provides so much insight into how the great film maker got his ideas, his motivation and his drive.  Unlike the Heart of Darkness, this film maker was filled with light in an otherwise dark time. Alive when the great earthquake hit Tokyo, this book takes the reader from the economic chaos of pre-WWII Japan, through the personal trials and tribulations of Ameican occupation as Kurosawa searches for an identity for his people in the modern era. Touching and painful is the reality that he had to travel aboard to make films because the international movie making genius was considered somehow second rate in Japan just because he was Japanese. Kurosawa said, I don't know why it is that Japanese people feel any thing Japanese is not good enough. His story illustrates the kind of sociological identity crisis that Japan as a whole experienced after WWII. Engaging.	2001-06-03
US	50680639	RGAEEEDP64GYV	094153314X	617853801	The End of the Third World	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Reconstructing Global Representations	The final lines of Nigel Harris' The End of the Third World bear striking resemblance to another, older work about pending global change.  He speaks of the \\"great unfinished question of world history: the freedom not of minorities, nor of states, but of the majority.\\" A little more than 100 years before Harris, a man who could be perceived as his predecessor wrote: \\"The proletarians have nothing to lose but their chains. They have a world to win. Working men of the world unite!\\"  But Harris' vision differs from Marx. Marx believed that capitalism would inevitably change the world and wanted to have an effect on that change. Harris believes capitalism or the movement of capital is creating a global market that powerful governments can no longer control. The end result is that the world order itself is changing and with it, the Third World, as well as the First and of course the Second are being dissolved.  Harris devotes a tremendous amount of time discussing the historical, economical and governmental settings of the old world order which required less dependence on other countries and allowed for more exaggerated exploitation of other countries. This background is essential to his argument, so that the common reader can understand the interpenetrating, organic solidarity of the new global structure. It is organic solidarity in Weber's terms. Harris never uses Weber's term. Instead, he simply describes this interdependent economic solidarity as follows: \\"They have to export in order to import the goods they cannot afford to make at home, because the domestic market is too small.\\"  Harris presents impressive evidence that the Third World not longer exists because a New World order is being born. The New World order is being shaped by the diversity of cultures, empowered by a global economic forces that have escaped the grasp of powerful governments trying to distort it and shaped more by a myriad of competing smaller forces. The New World order is shaped by these smaller, more diverse and interpenetrating forces rather than by the powerful governments that ruled the dinosaur days of imperialistic giants. In this respect, I think Harris is absolutely correct that the Third World no longer exists. The only question that remains is whether Harris' depiction of the future bears an accurate resemblance to tomorrow. Only time will tell.ller, more diverse and interpenetrating forces rather than by the powerful governments that ruled the dinosaur days of imperialistic giants. In this respect, I think Harris is absolutely correct that the Third World no longer exists. The only question that remains is whether Harris' depiction of the future bears an accurate resemblance to tomorrow. Only time will tell.	2001-05-21
US	50680639	R1UD3THKZI5YFN	0231105150	129317184	Palestinian Identity	Books	4	33	53	N	N	All Nationalisms are Constructions	The preface of this book really seals the concepts of the previous text: \\"Nations as a natural, God-given way of classifying men, as an inherent ... political destiny, is a myth; (this is really what Frontier Fictions' author intended to say).\\"  Nationalism takes pre-existing cultures, modifies or destroys them.  This seems solid.  In Khalidi's discussion of Palestinian Identity, the word Arab strikes a cord of long-standing culture and Palestine seems connected only with a sense of confusion.  Khalidi clears this perception of confusion.  He is trying to dismantle many myths about the Palestinian-Israeli identity creation by taking the discussion to pre-WWII.  He is combating the idea that as a result of the events of 1948, Israel came into being and with it, and/or in reaction to this, Palestinian identity was manufactured as a kind of cultural, political counter assault.<br />The gist of his text is to convince the reader that Palestinian identity has long roots and is therefore \\"real.\\"  The sense I have after reading his text is that not only is Palestinian identity a construction, so is every other national identity on the planet.  While I agree with his assertion that Palestinian identity is no less real than the French example he uses in the seventh chapter, I feel that French, Japanese, American and other identities as equally as fictitious as the pro-Zionist writers claim Palestinian identity is.  Just as he promised, the author brings into clear relief, not only discussions of Palestine and Israel, but of national and regional identity construction. The final description of the \\"reemergence of Palestinian identity\\" brought me to question more than ever before the global construction of national identities everywhere.  The powerful emotional, even common psychological bond shared by Palestinians resulting from shared miseries strengthens the \\"reality\\" of the identity, according to Rashid Khalidi.  This same social pressure  is common to other nations as well.l.	2001-05-21
US	50680639	R21DZ6FCJ8OK31	0415238544	754431965	Globalization (Key Ideas)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Unseen Links Bind Distant People, Locations	The world we live on is one planet. It's a simple, obvious observation, but Waters seems to spend much time illustrating this idea. But his view of globalization is not quiet so simple. That we share the same space is a geometrical given. He illustrates even in his preface that people throughout the world have become interrelated.  \\"Tasmanians know that they live on one planet because other people's aerosol sprays have caused a carcinogenic hole in the ozone's layer over their heads, because their relatively high rate of unemployment is due to a slump in the international commodities markets, because their children are exposed to such edifying role models as Robocop.\\" He seems to illustrate that for better or worse; humans throughout the planet are now inextricably linked to one other on economic, political and culture levels. These links are span the global based on their mobility. Waters defines their mobility according to their nature: \\"material relationships localize, power relationships internationalize and symbolic relationships globalize.\\"  Economy for him has a high level of symbolic mediation because it is intrinsically entwined with `symbolic tokens' that would originally have been money, under Giddens' description, but today extend to even less finite concepts. While cash in the form of coins or bills previously had a physical form, today, the concept of money or capital is, in many cases, just numbers on a transaction sheet. Waters views the economic realm as highly symbolic, highly fluid and highly globalized giving it the capable of moving most rapidly over the planet and subsequently the providing strong impetus for global interactions and subsequently globalization.	2001-05-21
US	50680639	R3O9XVE0LA434Z	0195084373	642552862	The Society of the Muslim Brothers	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Objective, direct, accurate: Excellent	In The Society of the Muslim Brothers, Richard P. Mitchell addresses the ideology of the organization. He takes the reader from the birth of the movement that would eventually challenge the Egyptian government to it's greatest and worst moments. He writes with an amazingly objective style, neither apologizing for the members who committed crimes, nor minimalizing the excellent social welfare contributions of Hassan Al-Banna, the leader. Of particular interest in this discussion of dualities is the point made about the dual legal systems. Al-Banna felt that the Western laws \\"corrupted and perverted the nation's thought, mind and logic.\\"  Mitchell's point on this seems to hold vivid clarity in the idea that manmade laws and shari'a are innately incompatible. The inharmonious combination of this dual legal system \\"served to shatter the `unity' of the nation.\\" Mitchell's writing really catches the essence of a group of people struggling to come to terms with a rapidly changing society in flux in a rapidly changing world. His book was translated into Arabic and Arab scholars agree that his portrayal of this politically powerful religious movement is academically sound.	2001-05-21
US	50680639	RUEMU66BJSEYF	0520201019	275394045	Nationalism and the Genealogical Imagination: Oral History and Textual Authority in Tribal Jordan (Comparative Studies on Muslim Societies)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	New View of History	Andrew Shryock captures the fragmented nature of oral histories among the Bedouin tribes of a Jordanian region known as the Balga. This text, which is actually an ethnography, brings into relief greater concepts of history that are often not obvious.  The histories that Andrew collects have never been written, except a few segments in travelogues. This brings to mind questions about the unsubstantiated faith in written historical texts. Andrew illustrates that it is possible to interrogate the oral histories in the same way other historians interrogate archival data. Questions of the source of the document, the identity of the author, the comparison of data with other sources creates a \\"complete reality\\" of history. While Andrew flirts with this definition of history in chapter one when he compares the data he retrieves from oral histories to data found in archives, he also opens several other issues entirely.  The oral histories of the Balga tribes are by their very nature fragmentary and disjointed. They do not lend themselves to a uniform, linear universal whole history. Instead, they provide only highlights. This brings to mind a question of validity for so-called modern history. How much is filled in like the archeologist filling in the gaps in crumbled structures? Is it possible that the Balga tribes' oral histories, untouched by the pressure of conformity, be closer to historical truth than the modern version whose rough edges have been hewn squarely into a proper line?  Andrew also illustrates the uses that are not directly historical. Oral histories contribute a part to building political clout and are propagated because of political clout. Moreover, the oral histories play a part in identity forming for young members of the tribes. They relate to their place in the universe, not only in the tribe, but also in relation to other tribes, Jordanian politics and the world at large, based on how they see themselves in relation to the oral histories. For these two purposes, the non-textual aspect of the oral histories is part of their significance, part of their social power.  It brings into question classic historical texts all over the world. Exactly how historically accurate is everything we call history? An excellent piece of work, it's easy to see why it won scholastic awards.o purposes, the non-textual aspect of the oral histories is part of their significance, part of their social power.  It brings into question classic historical texts all over the world. Exactly how historically accurate is everything we call history? An excellent piece of work, it's easy to see why it won scholastic awards.	2001-05-21
US	50680639	R2ZMVC49N3BA1	0231106610	132797533	Colonial Citizens	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Sociological Undercurrents	The sociological/psychological undercurrents of history have long fascinated me. Problematic and intangible, it is often difficult to grasp the more fragile, subtle details of past events. Often, the same difficult occurs with current events. Therefore, reconstructing and understanding historical events is even more difficult. In Colonial Citizens, Elizabeth Thompson makes an attempt at this challenging task. She frames the events of French Mandate era Syria and Lebanon in familial terms, labeling the sequence overall, a \\"crisis of paternity.\\"  Undoubtedly, if we were to ask any of the men in that time period the reason for their actions, they would likely give a very pragmatic, political reply. However, as Freud as illustrated, humans are often themselves unaware of their motivations. Subsequently, Thompson's argument, in many places seems on purely visceral indications to be solid. There are places in the text, however, that the familial relational terms seem strained. There are portions of the text where it seems that the events were not framed by the citizens themselves in gendered terms, but Thompson continued that language because this is the frame she chose. Gender relations is the viewpoint from which she approaches the issues, and it is possible that this perspective isn't appropriate for all the matters discussed in the text.	2001-05-21
US	50680639	RSCJZ70JHKI77	0140172173	843278974	Inside the Third World: The Anatomy of Poverty; Third Edition (Penguin politics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Smooth View of a Hard Reality	&quot;The battered Moroccan bus heaved its bulk up the Atlas mountains, eroded by the tracks of a hundred absent streams.&quot; Nothing says it better than Paul does with his own words. This work is insightful, bringing the reader almost physically to dozens of different poverty-stricken locations, and well-written. Moreover, despite the harsh realities he presents, Paul's detailed description makes the experience fluid and enjoyable. &quot;As dawn rises over the mud-walled royal palace at Ouagadougou, the emperor's horse, impatient in its heavy trappings of emerald, scarlet and gold, snorts and paws the ground.&quot; Yes, this book is definitely about global poverty, but it's written from a view you've never seen before. Embedded in the enchanting description is an awakening for the reader -- a new awareness of people and their struggles all over the planet.	2001-05-21
US	50680639	R3VEC464Q0AB69	0313231966	149784984	Turkish Nationalism and Western Civilization: Selected Essays of Ziya Gokalp	Books	2	1	4	N	N	Effective Translation, Disappointing Scholarship	Although Niyazi Berkes does bring to English significant works of the most prolific Young Turk, this work is disappointing. The dates and names of publications where Ziya Gokalp's essays were originally printed are not listed. This translation makes it impossible to compare the content of the Turkish nationist's ideas with the historical conditions at the time. Readers do not know when or where the essays were read or what may have prompted the writing. Much more scholarship of this kind needs to be done. Compared to other regions of the world, there is a dearth of translation from great Turkish authors.	2001-05-20
US	50680639	R2XFI39H9SNHP9	0520083725	18499872	The Soil: A Portrait of Rural Life in Meiji Japan (Voices from Asia)	Books	5	16	19	N	N	Moving, Sensitive, but Pragmatic	Takashi's portrayal of the rigorous life lead by Meiji-era Japanese farmers is so vivid and realistic that this book was selected by the University of Maryland, Asian Division history department as a supplemental text in the Japanese history class. The professor promised it would be a excellent read. He was right! Emotional and visual, the book makes the reader a part of the Meiji world. Yet, as sublime as the work is at moments, there are other moments when it is suprisingly harsh in the presentation of life's hard realities. After I returned the text to the university, I had to buy a copy for my own library.	2001-05-20
US	50680639	R1RGF4UPW9R2ZF	0226568032	272167520	Japan: The Intellectual Foundations of Modern Japanese Politics (Phoenix Book)	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Taming Complicated Concepts	This was a great book. It was easy to read, small (only 148 pages), direct and effective. The scholarship shows excellent depth of research, but the vocabulary and writing style is simple. Tetsuo Najita makes the highly abstract intellectuals of the most recent centuries in Japan accessible to any reader. Nicely done. Najita looks not just at history, but the driving forces, the ideas that motivated the people who inspired history. He brings new focus to Japanese history. For academic researchers or the curious Japanophile, I strongly recommend this book. I'm not a historian. I'm a graduate student studying sociology and anthropology. Still, the value of this book is not limited to history. Najita's willingness to breakout of the rigid confines of what History has been and move into new material in the history of ideas is exciting. In this, his work touches on history, philosophy, religion, sociology, anthropology and politics. The combination of seemingly divergent disciplines is surprisely smooth.	2001-05-20
US	50680639	RGC4PEL74NLOK	0275915417	232714196	Political and Social Thought in the Contemporary Middle East	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Great Thinkers of the Eastern World	There is an amazing dearth of real data on Arab intellectuals. Very few primary source documents have been translated. Moreover, much of the secondary work scholarship that has been done includes Orientalist, racial and condescending tones. Dr. Karpat's work brings fresh insight into this field. All the great thinkers are here. The architects of Arab Nationalism, of Turkey, Iran, Egypt, Syria and even the Muslim Brotherhood. English translations of essays written by the greatest thinkers of the 20th century Arab world, complete with an historical explanation of the situation and time in which their writings took place, the publications where they were printed and often counter essays from people who disagreed with them. This book is an instant look into the intellectual surge that resulted from the scramble to salvage a way of life threatened by globalism and modernism. Essays written by Gamal Abdel Nasser, first president of Egypt; Anwar al-Sadat, former Egyptian president; Hassan Al-Banna, father of the Muslim Brotherhood; King Abdallah of Jordan; Sati' Al-Husri, architect of Iraqi education and father of Arab Nationalism and more. Readers need not rely on second-rate scholars to tell them what the Arab world thinks. Now, English readers can read for themselves the words of these great philosophers, statemen and scholars.	2001-05-20
US	50680639	R2RDK2M6PH9QDP	0801856493	677220782	The Policing of Families	Books	4	6	6	N	N	State-driven force homogenization of family structures	Donzelot's historical review of the French government's attempt to engineer society via force homogenization of family structures is not only a message of the historical conditions of the early 1900s. It is also an intimidating description of what can happen when social engineering goes bad.  The book describes the mechanization not only of the centralized institutions such as the judicial system, but also of local agencies, such individual philanthropists and community help organizations.<br />Donelot traces the transition of control from the Church where priests constructed the images of the &quot;ideal&quot; family to educational, judicial, medical and psychiatric constructed images of the ideal family. In all cases, Donzelot is able to illustrate how the structural construction of familial roles fails to inculcate meaning into familial life. Moreover, he is able to illustrate how these maneuvers actually inhibit meaning or destroy already existing emotionally supportive structures. His writing is a critically important look back in time that allows a clearer vision of the future of the interrelations of social structures and individual lives.	2001-04-07
