US	50697384	RSSOTGVRLPHUJ	0805210385	488140472	Myth and Meaning: Cracking the Code of Culture	Books	4	41	47	N	N	Good Introduction to Levi-Strauss but falters at the end	This book, based on interviews Levi-Strauss conducted with the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation in the late '70s, is extremely clear and easy to understand for non-anthropologists like myself.  He explains his views about how rational science and mythology branched off from each other in the seventeenth and eighteenth century, leading us to a situation where today we experience life differently that do 'primitive' tribes who use myths to explain the world around them.  Levi-Strauss notes, however, that, while these peoples may not be as accurate in describing the world as we are with our modern science, they do possess a great deal of knowledge which we have lost on an individual level, i.e., knowledge about plants and stars.  Mythology, he claims, functions like history and science for these people; for an example Levi-Strauss focuses his attention on the meaning of American myths about twins, hare(lips) and babies born feet first.<br />All this is quite well laid out and easy to read.  However, the last chapter deals with music and mythology, and here Levi-Strauss badly missteps.  He postulates that the decline in mythology that accompanied the rise of modern science coincided with the creation of great music by the likes of Bach, Haydn and Mozart that drew upon the same sources of inspiration as mythology.  He spends several pages in a structural critique of Wagner's Ring which, albeit fascinating, is highly questionable.  Furthermore, at the end of the book he suggests, quite wildly, that serial music is now poised to overtake the modern novel, which arose at the same time as modern science, in importance.<br />This weak section at the end notwithstanding, however, this is a good book for anyone interested in Levi-Strauss's groundbreaking work.	2003-01-31
US	50697384	R2B263BBEJF3C3	0865433577	795284220	Uganda Since Independence: A Story of Unfulfilled Hopes	Books	4	19	19	N	N	Most concise political history of Uganda available	This book is good for the student who wants a quick overview of Uganda history from 1960 to 1990.  Mutibwa writes a good brief history of Ugandan colonial history and avoids political bias in his discussions of the governments of Milton Obote, Idi Amin and Yoweri Museveni.  He draws upon unpublished material and his own experience in government plus a range of secondary material to provide the reader with a well-written and concise book.<br />Yet I do have some complaints about the book.  First, while Mutibwa presents an astute analysis of political intrigue and debates in Kampala, he fails to give enough time to social history, especially to the vast majority of the Ugandan population that lives in rural areas.  Second, he spends too little time on the economic history of Uganda, neglecting such important events as Amin's economic war in the '70s and Obote's structural adjustment program in the early '80s.  Third, he fails to utilize the works of such Ugandan experts as EA Brett, HB Hansen, Kenneth Ingham Dan Mudoola and TV Sathyamurthy in his analyses.  Finally, while no fault of Mutibwa, this book is now ten years old, making it unsuitable for the student interested in a history of the NRM.<br />The above reservations aside, however, this book is still a good read for the average reader.<br />[Contains 12 black and white photographs and 4 maps]	2002-04-16
US	50697384	R2P4RTQOBPXZOV	0887291058	763623690	Langenscheidt's Pocket German Dictionary (German and German Edition)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	top-notch German dictionary	This is a rare example of a pocket dictionary which can both fit in your pocket and be very useful when you're out and about.  It has lasted me for eight years without falling apart and is easy to use with a thumb index for both the English-German and German-English sections.  The dictionary leaves out some of the more obscure words and phrases from the larger versions of the Langenscheidt German dictionaries and is therefore perfect for people on the move who need a quick translation of an unknown word.<br />Added features include a phonetic alphabet chart, conversion tables and formulas for temperatures, weights and measures, lists of both German and English irregular verbs, a small grammar section plus translations of German propers names, states and abbreviations.	2002-03-27
US	50697384	R2NP14JG7MB2AF	0195134281	153812862	The Burden of Memory, the Muse of Forgiveness (W.E.B. Du Bois Institute)	Books	2	10	10	N	N	Mildly interesting at best	There is no doubt that Wole Soyinka is a good writer - his Nobel prize was justly deserved and not a case of affirmative action as another reviewer insultingly suggested.  However, someone encountering Soyinka for the first time in this book would not be tempted to try reading his more famous writings: this book is, to be frank, not well written.  Based on three lectures Soyinka gave at Harvard University in 1997, Soyinka touches upon the very topical reparations controversy in the first essay, praises the Senegalese writer Leopold Senghor in the second and spends the last examining African poets' attempts to deal with the legacies of colonialism and racism.<br />Through all three lectures Soyinka employs a very dense style, one that might have worked well when speaking for an academic audience at Harvard but one that does not translate well onto the written page.  Phrases like 'slaves into the twentieth-first century, mouthing the mangy mandates of mendacity, ineptitude, corruption and sadism' sound impressive but are merely a means for Soyinka to play around with words when he could be spending his time seriously addressing very important issues like reparations.  When he does get down to business, he writes that 'reparations would involve the acceptance by Western nations of a moral obligation to repatriate the post-colonial loot salted away in their vaults, in real estate and business holdings' but never goes into detail exactly what this would involve.  What is more disturbing is his frequent references to the U.S., which reveal his real ignorance about American life: examples include his belief that David Duke could have been elected President in 1992 and that the Ku Klux Klan held or holds a 'tentacular hold over power structures across the United States.'  If he knows so little about the country where he is giving his lectures (and also holds a job as a Professor at Emory University), should we trust him to do a good job at addressing the international debate on reparations?<br />I didn't give this book one star for the fact that Soyinka's second and third lectures are reasonably coherent and do a good job of tracing the literary history behind Negritude.  (For instance, he discusses the reasons why American black writers were in closer contact with Francophone blacks rather than their Anglophone brothers.)  Yet even here he does not attempt to present any kind of thesis, but is merely contented with quoting various poems and doing some quick literary analysis.<br />Readers with an interest in discovering why Soyinka won the Nobel Prize should thus turn elsewhere.	2002-02-06
US	50697384	R36YVKKG8DMPFL	0060140275	521036274	Ghosts of Kampala: The Rise and Fall of Idi Amin	Books	5	5	6	N	N	best book about Idi Amin from an insider	As opposed to the two previous reviewers, I thought this was an extremely well written and researched book.  The author was a UN official during the 1970s and was able to draw upon his and his colleagues' experiences to form a very good portrait of one of the worst rulers in Africa's history.  He starts with a very informative discussion of Amin's youth and career before he took over the Presidency of Uganda in 1971, destroying such myths as Amin's claim that he fought in Burma and India during World War II.  He draws upon personal correspondance with former Ugandan President Milton Obote to provide a detailed account of Amin's coup and his foreign policy with other African countries in the 70s.  Going in depth about Amin's search for oil in Lake Albert and his collusion in the assassination of Burundi's King Ntare V, Smith also provides the reader with an account of how bad life was in Uganda in the 70s.  He justly praises the bravery of Makerere University students who stood up to Amin several times while condemning the lack of interest of other African politicians (except for Nyerere) and Western governments in putting an end to Amin's bloody regime.<br />The only criticism I would have of the book is the lack of any serious economic analysis of Uganda in the 70s - after all, it was Amin more than anyone else who turned Uganda from one of sub-Saharan Africa's richest countries to one of its poorest - but this is a minor quibble since that information is available elsewhere.  This is a highly recommended book.	2002-02-06
US	50697384	R1CBGSYAEI4EAP	1864502541	886206307	Lonely Planet Montreal (Lonely Planet Montreal & Quebec City)	Books	5	37	38	N	N	another good Lonely Planet guidebook	I used this guidebook while visiting Montreal in summer 2001 and had no problems at all.  As to be expected from Lonely Planet, the color maps at the back are great and the three walking tours really give you a feel for the city.  The restaurant list was excellent, especially an extended section on Montreal's famous bagels.  There was a large chapter on excursions from Montreal, which included Ottawa, Quebec City and the Laurentian mountains among other places.  All the standard Lonely Planet bits on history, culture, arts and religion were very informing; best was the little section on Canadian French where I learned to say &quot;y'est quelle heure&quot; instead of &quot;quelle heure est-il.&quot;<br />The only complaint I could have was the lack of a map of the underground shopping city, which we found confusing to navigate, even with the map provided by the tourist authority.  Otherwise it's as good a guidebook to Montreal as you're likely to find anywhere.	2002-01-05
US	50697384	R36114OGMUNMY9	0253204682	725232208	The Invention of Africa: Gnosis, Philosophy, and the Order of Knowledge (African Systems of Thought)	Books	2	72	85	N	N	Interesting but not extremely groundbreaking	First of all, this book doesn't quite live up to its title - I expected Mudimbe to write about the invention of the concept of Africa, which he chose as a topic for his book 'The Idea of Africa.'  It also doesn't really attempt to establish any sort of theory of how African philosophy has developed and exists today.  Rather, he draws heavily on Foucault (as to be expected, of course) plus Levi-Strauss and others to critically examine eurocentric approaches to African philosophy and point out how African philosophy emphasizes the 'alterity of the subject' and 'the passion of subject-object that doesn't vanish.'<br />Yet this method is faulty in several ways.  First, as the above quotes reveal, Mudimbe is a big fan of academic jargon.  His writing could be a lot clearer when he's trying to get a point across as opposed to merely skewering eurocentrists.<br />Second, Mudimbe could have spent more time surveying African philosophy rather than just criticizing eurocentric misinterpretations and misreadings.  He does devote a chapter to the pan-Africanist Edward Blyden but is unwilling to delve into a systematic history of native African philosophies prior to colonialism.  Indeed, part of the problem of this book is an unwillingness on Mudimbe's part to move away from European-educated Africans and their application of Marxim, post-modernism and other European philosophical movements to African philosophy.  If he did examine more native philosophies like he does with Alexis Kagame's work on Bantu philosophy, the reader might actually gain some insight into the varieties and diversity of African philosophy.  Of course, such a discussion might (and probably would) invalidate any use of the word 'African' to describe one system of thought as Mudimbe continually uses here.<br />Third, Mudimbe seems to be critical of everyone except his heroes like Levi-Strauss and, especially, Foucault.  While very important for anyone writing about contemporary philosophy, Foucault has his faults as well, yet Mudimbe has no interest in critically examining Foucault's use of epistemes to describe the history of knowledge.  I as a reader would have enjoyed an African criticism of Foucault, especially one that deals with Foucault's relentless reliance upon French sources with little regard for non-Europeans' own native or original epistemes.<br />This is all unfortunate because Mudimbe obviously has the skills to write a great book on African philosophy (or philosophies).  Too bad this is not that book.	2001-12-19
US	50697384	R7PJAKX8EQHJG	1566562708	852111914	Spectrum Guide to Uganda (Spectrum Guides)	Books	1	10	12	N	N	one of the worst guidebooks I've ever bought	I wouldn't normally be so harsh on a book, but this one was really bad in almost every respect.  First, there is no indication at all in this book of how expensive Kampala has become over the last decade, so I ended up taking not enough money and had to have my parents wire me cash over Western Union.  Not that the book would have helped in that regard, of course, because there is no information in the guidebook about Western Union or how to get cash to Uganda.<br />In a section at the back of the book there is a list of hotels with, of course, no prices listed, and, while the authors list theatres, tour operators and even libraries, they conveniently leave out restaurants.  There is also an extensive list of wildlife species although, without any pictures to help you identify the animals, I don't know how this is supposed to help anyone.  In the language section there is a helpful English-Kiswahili section, which is nice except for the fact that Luganda is much more widely spoken in Kampala, Entebbe and central Uganda than Kiswahili.<br />Additionally, there is a massive lack of good maps here: the map of Kampala is so small it doesn't even cover the centrally located Rubaga cathedral and the map of Uganda lacks so much detail that it is almost impossible to use it for driving.  (This in a country where street signs are almost non-existent.)  These bad maps are inexcusable in any guidebook but even more so here where the authors have inserted large numbers of full-page color photographs.<br />Finally, the binding on the book started falling apart only weeks after I purchased it.  All in all, a really bad guidebook.	2001-12-16
US	50697384	R3JBD857QC9SPK	039304601X	102619624	Stanley Kubrick, Director: A Visual Analysis	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Not definitive but still intriguing	This is an interesting book, with a huge number of photographs detailing most of Kubrick's films. (The only ones not examined in depth are 'Fear and Desire,' 'Killer's Kiss,' 'The Killing,' 'Spartacus,' and 'Lolita.') The book is organized chronologically, with a small section in the middle of the book about Kubrick's use of color and an epilogue detailing Walker's personal encounters with Kubrick at the end. It is fun to read about Walker's stories about Kubrick, which shed some all-too-needed light on the personal life and motivations of the reclusive filmmaker.<BR>On the whole, Walker's analyses of Kubrick's films are good, not great: I think he is really off-base in praising Tom Cruise's acting in 'Eyes Wide Shut' and in denigrating Kubrick's use of the occult in 'The Shining.' However, his analyses of 'Barry Lyndon' and 'Full Metal Jacket' were astute, and he successfully links certain themes and motifs throughout all of Kubrick's films.<BR>Finally, although normally I don't like a huge amount of pictures in a book because of how they always jack up the price, here the pictures are well-chosen and either help jog your memory about the films or help you understand them if you haven't seen them. I will say that some of the pictures were much larger than they needed to be - I didn't need a full two-page spread of the atomic bomb exploding in 'Dr. Strangelove' - but that's a minor criticism.<BR>All in all, a generally fun book.	2001-08-30
US	50697384	R2O34XRJQC3ZWN	0671640984	313458539	The Mountain People	Books	2	24	54	N	N	amazing in more ways than one	In this book Colin Turnbull describes his long stay in the late '60s with the Ik ethnic group, situated on the borderlands of Uganda, Kenya and the Sudan.  Turnbull writes about how the Ik have been pushed into bare survival after being forced off of their grazing lands and into the mountains.  He is no doubt a good writer - I found the book easy to read as a non-anthropologist - and is good at drawing out the horror of living on the edge and how the fight to survive has destroyed much of Ik society, including any sense of what we call morality.  It was harrowing to read of one Ik who, upon coming in contact with his mother for the first time in years, merely asked her if she had any food; when she said no he left without another word.<br />I would have therefore given the book four or five stars if not for the last chapter, where Turnbull becomes even more immoral than the Ik in his suggestion that they be dispersed among other neighboring ethnic groups so that they assimilate and lose their Ik identity.  This is nothing less than a call for genocide, which is remarkable coming from anyone but even more so from an anthropologist, a person who is trained to respect other cultures.  Regardless of how despicable Ik society may have become, Turnbull has no right to claim that they are beyond rescue, that reintroduction into their former lands or some such plan might rescue their society and reinstall a sense of morality.<br />Looking at the book again after finishing the last chapter, I found some of it even more amazing than the conclusion.  For instance, in his acknowledgements Turnbull thanked the Ik for treating him as one of their own, 'which is about as bad as anyone can hope to be treated.'  Where he gets this idea is beyond me - not only did the Ik treat him with far more respect than the Nazis did the Jews (to bring up one of many examples), they treated him with more respect than he would treat them!<br />Sad then, that Turnbull completely ruins a well-written book with such a horrendous ending.	2001-04-17
US	50697384	R39KO4GF7D1F18	0863161480	159762685	Pan-Africanism for Beginners (AFRICAN HISTORY SERIES)	Books	2	6	15	N	N	biased and simplistic	I picked up this book because I wanted a simple little introduction to pan-Africanism and what I got was a diatribe.  As with all too many of these 'for beginners' books, the author is an avid proponent of his/her subject and is unwilling to examine it with a critical mind.  While doing a good job at laying out the history of pan-Africanism (the only reason I don't give this book one star), Sid Lemelle, Professor of History at Pomona College in California, does not bring up the big criticisms of pan-Africanism.  First, like post-colonial theory, it has been and continues to be a movement all too biased towards the experiences of the African diaspora and not Africans themselves, as evidenced by whom Lemelle puts in the middle of the books's cover, namely Malcolm X.  Second, many people argue that pan-Africanism ignores local African ethnic, religious and national identities in favor of an over-arching pan-African identity.  Furthermore, Lemelle ignores the big debate around the concepts of 'Africa' and 'Africans', namely whether North Africa really has much in common at all with black/sub-saharan/tropical Africa and whether whites in South Africa or Asians in Uganda are Africans or not.  If they are, then how can pan-Africanism have a racial component?<br />These are all big problems that Lemelle ignores in favor of espousing pan-Africanism.  I actually believe he could have done a much better job of promoting the merits of pan-Africanism if he had tried a more even-handed approach.  In the end, unfortunately, this book is too biased to be of much use to anyone.	2001-01-28
US	50697384	R3IUVOCAP1TZ4L	0451525159	216026292	002: Four Major Plays: Volume 2 Ghosts An Enemy People The Lady from Sea John Gabriel Borkman (Signet classics)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	great plays from a great author	I first picked up a copy of Ibsen while searching through my parents' bookshelf for something to read; after zipping through 'A Doll House' I knew I was hooked.  All of Ibsen's (late) plays are amazing in that they adhere to a strict structure - always set in Norway (even though Ibsen lived all around Europe) in a small town and, with the exception of 'The Wild Duck,' have a similarly bittersweet ending - but are nevertheless full of brute and honest emotions and characters who are incredibly multi-dimensional, all within about 100 pages per play.<br />These four plays are no doubt among Ibsen's best.  'Ghosts' deals with disease of the body and the spirit in the Alving family, while 'The Lady from the Sea' is comparable to 'Hedda Gabler' in its strong feminism: the main character Ellida demands the right to choose her own future.  In 'John Gabriel Borkman' the title character comes down from self-imposed confinment in the attic of his house to begin his life again.<br />However, my favorite has to be 'An Enemy of the People', which is one of the most powerful indictments of bourgeois democratic politics I've ever read.  Those interested in such nineteenth-century philosophers as Kierkegaard or Nietzsche would particularly enjoy this play, since Ibsen strongly denounces the idea that the will of the majority is always right.  While the American film of the play was not that good, there's a reason it was made in the first place: 'Enemy' might be the most relevant of all of Ibsen's plays to contemporary society (and I thought that even before the 2000 election!).  While you might not agree with the sentiments of the main character, Dr. Stockmann, his ideas will provoke a reaction one way or the other, I promise you.<br />Finally, the book also contains a lengthy and informative foreword by the translator Rolf Fjelde.	2000-12-31
US	50697384	R3DTYCQWPCQ57C	0140141588	190898433	London: The Lives of the City (Granta)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	great selection of short works about London	This is the first Granta book I've read but I'm definitely interested in more after this one.  A collection of essays, stories, memoirs and photographs all based around the theme of London, it contains works by such well-known authors as Anthony Bailey, Ian Buruma, Amit Chaudri, Hanif Kureishi, John Lanchester, Dale Peck, Will Self and Graham Swift plus articles by two writers for the Observer.  Sandwiched in between all of these works are ten 'London Views', where various authors ruminate on their favorite or most memorable views in and about the city.<br />Many of the essays are accounts of the author's memories of their time spent in London, as in the childhood memories of Ferdinand Dennis and Ruth Gershon or the more recent recollections by Ian Hamilton and Lucretia Stewart.  My favorite part, however, was the short fiction, especially Philip Hensher's mysterious tale of real estate in the late '80s and Lanchester's quirky story about an accountant's experience of a bank robbery.  I also enjoyed Helen Simpson's 'With a Bang,' an account of life in Kew in the age of Nostradamus, an appropriate addition to a volume published in 1999.<br />The stories taken collectively give a really in-depth view of London at the turn of the century.  Yet even if you're not interested in London per se, the writing here is good enough to warrant buying this anyway.	2000-12-21
US	50697384	R1ZD4QIYRH1YD0	0864425562	994055320	Lonely Planet San Francisco (A Travel Survival Kit)	Books	5	43	45	N	N	another excellent Lonely Planet Guide	Yet again Lonely Planet has produced a very readable and useful guidebook.  I bought this for a 5-day trip to the Bay area and was never at a loss for information.  The 16 color maps at the back were extremely helpful: one of the biggest problems I have with guidebooks like Fodor's is that they often have confusing maps which can really get you confused and lost, whereas here any idiot like myself can find his way around easily.  I also really liked the walking tours, of which there are five - Barbary Coast, Beatnik-Hippie, Chinatown, North Beach and Skyscraper - all of which have their own maps as well.  The excursion chapter covered Oakland and Berkeley plus Marin County and Napa Valley and some sites south of San Fransisco.  As always there was the typically well-researched chapters on accommodation, food, entertainment and shopping.  Furthermore, the history chapter gave a good introduction to all of San Fransisco's past and present - the gold rush, earthquakes, the counterculture, gays and more.<br />A great travelguide for a beautiful city.	2000-12-19
US	50697384	R3F4XM5NQEMK27	0887290213	573109116	Langenscheidt New College German Dictionary: German-English - English German Thumb-indexed	Books	5	61	62	N	N	Great for any student of German	Langenscheidt is always reliable no matter what the language, but, as a German company, you'd expect their German dictionary to be supreme.  This one doesn't disappoint.  I've lived in Germany and Austria and I can count on one hand the number of times I couldn't find a legitimate word in this dictionary.  It even includes such Austrian (i.e. non-standard) words like 'Marille' (apricot) and 'Obers' (cream) and is loaded with phrases I haven't been able to find in any other dictionaries like 'sich um des Kaisers Bart streiten' (to squabble over little things).<br />Besides a 700-page dictionary this book also includes lists of irregular verbs, abbreviations (in German and English), geographical and historical names (also in German and English), musical works and numerals.  At the beginning there is a pronounciation guide and in the middle there is a handy weight and measure conversion chart.<br />A necessity for anyone studying German.	2000-11-30
US	50697384	R1G16CH4PQVM77	0850395682	967303721	A-Z London	Books	5	19	19	N	N	essential for anyone spending any amount of time in London	This book exemplifies what a city map should be.  It's got over 150 color pages of maps covering more than enough of London - from City Airport in the East to Hampton Court Palace in the West and from Croydon and Sutton in the South to Barnet in the North.  It also has 9 pages of detailed maps of central London - essential for all of those tiny alleyways in the City.<br />The rest of the book consists of a listing of all the streets covered in the map plus indexes of places of interest, tube and rail stations and hospitals.  There's also a tube map on the back cover.<br />You can also buy a mini London A-Z here in London, slightly smaller and covering less area, but I wouldn't recommend it because it doesn't have the detailed map section or a full tube map plus you never know when you might step outside its boundaries.<br />A heartly recommended buy.	2000-11-22
US	50697384	RQ3V139FEOTC9	0435906984	605609458	The Trouble with Nigeria (Heinemann African Writers Series)	Books	4	20	20	N	N	an important diatribe	This is a good little book about Nigeria's problems written by a Nigerian for Nigerians.  The edition I read was one of the smallest books I've ever seen - even smaller than some of those Noam Chomsky Real Story tracts - which makes sense since it was published in Nigeria for readers who might not be able to afford paying $8.50 for a book.  Therefore the reader should keep in mind the audience this book is aimed at: Achebe is writing to Nigerians about how they can clean up their country.  He is not writing a serious book about the current troubles of Nigeria and how they can be solved on an international as well as domestic front: the lack of the words 'Shell Corporation' is conspicuous throughout the book.<br />That being said, this is a good way for a non-Nigerian to see how Nigeria's problems are perceived internally.  Achebe is strong in his condemnation of tribalism, indiscipline and especially corruption and the prejudice agains the Igbo people.  While condeming most current (this was written in 1983) politicians, he does praise the famous Aminu Kano and other politicians like Bola Ige, Bisi Onabanjo and Ernest Ikoli for putting the nation's interest first, not their own.  Achebe looks forward to a time when such politicians would lead Nigerians, not divide them or waste their money needlessly.  <br />Unfortunately, good leadership is not the only answer to Nigeria's problems.  Nonetheless, this is still a worthy read.	2000-10-24
US	50697384	R34B4DYN7IX7AH	0804732892	782099525	Monolingualism of the Other: or, The Prosthesis of Origin (Cultural Memory in the Present)	Books	3	5	11	N	N	mildly interesting	I'll admit right now that this is the first (and probably last) of Derrida's books that I've read cover to cover.  Therefore I'm sure all those converted post-modernists will lambast me for not fully grasping the meaning of this book since I can't put it in the context of Derrida's other works.<br />Nonetheless there is some interesting stuff here for the newcomer, especially anyone interested in what it means to have a language as 'one's own' or to have a 'mother tongue.'  Derrida asks these questions in reference to his experiences as a French-speaking Algerian Jew and as a participant at a conference in French-speaking Louisiana (where this work was first presented).  The whole book is about Derrida's problems with identity and language, and he is mildly interesting in drawing out some paradoxes like 'we only ever speak one language' and 'we never speak only one language.'  He documents his personal problems with language, claiming that 'I feel lost outside the French language.'<br />Yet Derrida writes in a very annoying style, creating new words every other page and presenting the book as if it were the transciption of a dialogue.  It's also overpriced unless you're a Derrida fanatic, which means you probably already own it anyway.<br />Not exactly a must read.	2000-10-14
US	50697384	R25VF34OX07HIP	0874172047	679856776	National Identity (Ethnonationalism Comparative Perspective)	Books	5	44	45	N	N	best account of modern nationalism from Smith	This book contains many ideas propogated by Anthony Smith in many of his other books (i.e., _State and Nation in the Third World_, _The Ethnic Origin of Nations_, _Nations and Nationalism in a Global Era_) but combines them into one short volume.<br />Smith first focuses on the ethnic past of nations while also pointing out the differences between ethnic groups and modern nations.  He moves through a short history of ethnic groups and nations, asking the important question of whether ancient Egypt, Israel and Greece were ethnic nations before examining the medieval cases of England and France.  In all cases he puts emphasis on the importance of the homeland, a concept which can hardly be overemphasized in dealing with national identity.<br />He then moves to a typology of nationalism, claiming that 'nationalism-in-general is merely a lazy historian's escape'.  He examines the oft-neglected cultural aspect of nationalism, one that was at its height in nineteenth-century Europe but which has been replaced in the news today by genocide and ethnic cleansing.<br />Moving on to the impact of colonialism, imperialism and decolonization on the development of national identity, Smith spends a good amount of time on non-European nations like Egypt, Ethiopia and India.  He shows again how difficult it is to generalize about nationalism, especially outside Europe.<br />Finally, Smith looks to the future, asking the inevitable question of whether nations and national identity are doomed.  He argues that any attempt to supersede national identity, e.g. the creation of a European identity around the EU, must inevitably draw in so many aspects of national identity that it is merely another form of national identity.  Smith claims that, just as national identity has been with us for quite some time, it will remain for a while as well.<br />A well-argued and concise book.	2000-10-10
US	50697384	R23OEFW209DG2V	0865436045	755576744	Imperialism and Ethnic Politics in Nigeria, 1960-96	Books	2	2	6	N	N	a mixed bag at best	This book is not what it seems according to either of the above book reviews.  More about the mistreatment of Nigeria by Britain, France, the US and the IMF, the author spends very little of his time on ethnic politics in Nigeria.  Instead, Badru focuses on the very real but off-topic problems of economic imperialism and neo-colonialism, giving us a good history of post-independence Nigeria in addition to an introductory chapter about Marxist sociology's view of the state.  While relevant to those protesting in Prague, this analysis is not helpful to those of us who want to know more about ethnicity in Nigeria, the most populous country in black Africa.  Badru's only take on ethnic politics is the typical Marxist stance that it is less important than class politics.<br />Oh, and the proof-reading on this book was really bad, with lots of mispellings and missed words.<br />Don't waste your time.	2000-10-06
US	50697384	R1VWHHL78WMEUO	0520046951	520259667	Renaissance Florence, Updated edition	Books	5	62	64	N	N	excellent overview of Renaissance Florence	Picking up a book on Renaissance Florence, you would expect to get a book almost solely devoted to art and culture.  However, this book is fascinating in its analysis of all aspects of life in Renaissance Florence.  Covering the period between about 1300 and 1500, Brucker divides the book into six subjects, including the economy, politics and the church.  Through a lot of use of contemporary (and unpublished) documents, Florence comes across as a pretty chaotic place, with 40 religious holidays per year, public executions, workers' riots, plagues, wars with Milan and Naples plus a booming population (the fifth largest in Europe at the time).  How a huge cultural revolution emerged from all of this seems like a miracle, but Brucker argues that it was the confluence of several factors: the even influence of the Greco-Roman-Christian tradition and the vernacular tradition, being stuck between feudalism and capitalism, the flexible social structure and, last but not least, Dante.<br />Brucker also traces the decline of Florence in the late 1400s and early 1500s as the city grew conservative and public patronage of the arts declined with the rise of the Medicis.  Finally, he does devote a good chunk of the book to describing the achievements of Giotto, Michelangelo et al., making this an important read for any student of the Renaissance.	2000-09-21
US	50697384	R1HDSRQWV0S0OI	0807015199	577165608	The Aesthetic Dimension: Toward A Critique of Marxist Aesthetics	Books	5	30	31	N	N	pithy and to the point	Herbert Marcuse, original  member of the so-called 'Frankfurt School',  here presents a critique of Marxist aesthetics in one of his last books.   Although only 72 pages long, the book is powerful in its argument against  the orthodox Marxist view that 'art represents its the interests and world  outlook of particular social classes.'  Marcuse argues for the importance  of art in itself, apart from its source, writing, 'the criteria for the  progressive character of art are given only in the work itself as a whole:  in what it says and how it says it.'  He truly believes that art's place in  the world is not to change the world directly but to influence how people  perceive the world and thereby lead them to change it.<br />Marcuse also  touches upon other aspects of aesthetics, like his belief in a constant  standard allowing us to distinguish between high and low art and the  question of the 'end of art' as posited by Bertolt Brecht and others.   Nevertheless his main argument is most powerful: he ends the book by  praising art's role in representing 'the ultimate goal of all revolutions:  the freedom and happiness of the individual.'<br />Truly a valuable book for  all students of art, aesthetics and philosophy.	2000-09-17
US	50697384	R2FKXEI3SCT0PP	0803273061	43575002	A Berlin Republic: Writings on Germany (Modern German Culture and Literature)	Books	3	4	7	N	N	still topical and easy to read but too idealistic	For those interested in a major philosopher's take on some major social  and political issues this would appear to be a good book to start with.   Drawing from essays, interviews and letters written in 1993 and 1994,  Habermas presents his views about current hot topics in Germany.  He  touches upon quotas, immigration and the role of both the GDR and the Third  Reich in current German national identity; he also continues to critize the  way in which Germany was unified in 1990.  The interviews - originally in  Le Monde, Die Zeit and others - are easy to read, especially in comparison  to Habermas's other writings.  Furthermore, his belief in a radical  democracy formed through a public sphere in opposition to the state is a  truly great and courageous idea.<br />However, in many ways Habermas is  idealistic and even naive when it comes to his views on national identity.   On one hand he recognizes the importance of nationhood and its components  of 'a common origin, language and history'; he nevertheless puts too much  emphasis on his concept of 'constitutional patriotism', or the patriotic  feelings towards the members of a republic no matter their  racial/cultural/religious membership.  He seems to think that the U.S. is a  great example of constitutional patriotism in action, claiming that 'there,  everyone can live with two identities, simultaneously belonging to the  country and being a foreigner in it'.  What he bases this statement on is  unknown to me: not only does this statement show how ignorant Habermas is  of the U.S. but also how idealistic constitutional patriotism really is.   He does not really attempt to delve into the serious question of how a  political community just based on patriotism and not nationalism would hang  together.<br />In the end I guess I would only really recommend this book to  diehard Habermas fans.	2000-09-15
US	50697384	R1JUVYWKU8G7YH	0864424841	814922303	Lonely Planet British Phrasebook (Lonely Planet Phrasebook: India)	Books	5	61	62	N	N	required reading for Americans in Britain	As an ex-pat American living in London, I find this book essential when trying to decipher the large number of different words and phrases that the  Brits use: I can honestly tell you that the Phrasebook saved me from the  horrors of a zucchini dinner when I found out what 'courgettes' really are.   I also finally understood the meanings of 'put paid' and 'punters' and  enjoyed the section on British sport: while I still don't fully understand  cricket and have absolutely no idea about rugby, I now know a bit more than  nothing, which is helpful the next time you're in a pub and a Test Match is  on.<br />The less helpful sections of the book were the bits on more obscure  language usage like Cockney rhyming slang and Scots Gaelic: I've never  heard any rhyming slang in London and when I was in the Highlands the only  time I heard Gaelic was on the radio.  However, I'm not complaining: it's a  whole lot of fun to be able to know how to say 'caite am bheil an t-amar  snamh' ('where's the swimming pool'), even if the Scots themselves don't  understand, and now I know that nothing beats a good dinner of Lillian Gish  (fish) with gay and frisky (whiskey).<br />Anyway, the Phrasebook also  contains a section for each part of Britain plus sections on  pronounciation, accomodation, entertainment and society (how to address the  Queen when you meet her) and, most important of all, a mini  American-British dictionary.<br />All in all, highly recommended.	2000-08-22
US	50697384	R2QUXJGWTKQL0K	0801492637	66967634	Nations and Nationalism (New Perspectives on the Past)	Books	5	60	62	N	N	classic modernist account of nationalism	Truly one of the most important books ever written about nationalism, this is also one of the few modernist accounts of nationalism that ages well.   While this book was published in 1983, it is basically an expanded version  of a chapter from Gellner's earlier _Thought and Change_ (1964) with some  alterations.  However, even 36 years later his thesis is still as strong as  ever: nationalism is a result of the transformation from agrarianism to  industrialization.  I'll try to summarize his thesis briefly.<br />Gellner  describes the agrarian society as one where power is concentrated at the  top with a complex division of labor and an emphasis on informality and  intimacy.  Basically each group lives in their own happy little world cut  off from the rest.<br />But then things begin to change.  The transformation  to modernity involves a huge number of changes in society: the peasants  have to pick up and move to the city for work.  There mobility, formality  (the 'Diploma Disease') and a universalised high culture replace intimacy,  informality and various low cultures, and the peasants feel alienated (a  touch of Marx?).  The intelligentsia of the peasant group then decide to  save their low culture by turning it into a high culture, which can only  survive through state-supported education.  Thus the peasant people decide  to return home, seceed to form a new state and - presto - they've become a  nation.  This part of the story is obviously the violent part: Gellner  claims that things will get better in late industrialism, where we'll have  'muted nationalism' after all those secessions have taken place.<br />While  simplistic, there is a lot of truth to this story, which is well documented  in the large number of nations which emerged in this way, especially in  eastern Europe.  However, Gellner neglects several things, most importantly  what basis these peasants have for feeling like they have something in  common besides their class.  He also relies too much on the structural  changes in society - nothing is left up to individuals or even groups,  since nationalism is socially, not ideologically determined.  Therefore the  peasants themselves have no say in any of this: they're just riding the  wave of history (Marx again?).<br />Yet for its faults, this book is still a  classic: it has influenced all other writers on nationalism and will  continue to do so for quite some time.  Definitely a worthy read.	2000-08-16
US	50697384	R1Z1OR39BGBNRW	0701135557	716603235	Monarchy	Books	5	27	30	N	N	great little book	Considering it's only 42 pages long, Christopher Hitchens gets a lot done here.  He thoroughly trashes the British monarchy by examining five  arguments in its favour and striking them down accordingly, not to mention  pointing out how some contradict each other.  Most impressively, he shows  how the common argument that the monarchy lends tone but not interference  in politics is pure rubbish, drawing from many examples of British monarchs  butting into politics when they didn't need to.  He also lampoons the  ridiculous number of invented traditions giving legitimacy to the monarchy,  including the silly investitures of the Prince of Wales in 1911 and  1969.<br />Instead, Hitchens argues, Britons should draw upon their own 'solid  and honourable republican tradition' - one that was at its height in the  mid-nineteenth century - and finally give themselves some permanent  political rights (as opposed to merely traditions).<br />His argument, however  short it is, is convincing and a worthy read.	2000-08-12
US	50697384	R37OBPVKWYDFRI	0745307019	306830560	Ethnicity and Nationalism	Books	4	8	9	N	N	dry but informative	The author, a Professor of Social Anthropology at the University of Oslo, has written a clear and concise book about ethnicity and nationalism from  an anthropological perspective.  Written in a very dry style, however, this  book is not recommended as an introduction to nationalism for  non-anthropologists, especially since Eriksen likes to draw on his own  experiences in Mauritius and Norway a bit too much.  Instead, this is a  good introduction to anthropological debates about nationalism.<br />Eriksen  is succssful in pointing out the constructive and fluid nature of ethnic  and national identities: he shows how ethnicity is not an inherent property  but merely an aspect of a relationship.  Nonetheless, he argues, we should  not therefore discount the importance of ethnicity or nationhood to those  who hold it dear.  He also addresses typical anthropological issues like  kinship and argues for more efforts from anthropologists in studying the  past to help create a better understanding of ethnicity and  nationalism.<br />Finally, Eriksen manages to spend an equal amount of time on  ethnicity and nationalism, something very rare in the literature.<br />All in  all, a good book.	2000-08-08
US	50697384	R3GT8PPKTFKCNU	0631161694	634692896	The Ethnic Origins of Nations	Books	4	43	43	N	N	title says it all	In this book Anthony Smith does exactly what he sets out to do, namely  show how important ethnic groups have been for setting the foundation of  modern nations.  Neglected by such modernists as Anderson, Hobsbawm and  Kedourie, ethnic groups have been around for as long as the written word:  Smith digs into the past and comes out with gobs of them in the ancient  Middle East alone, some of them quite obscure: you definitely deserve a  prize if you've heard of the Arameans, Hurrians, Urartians and  Amorites.<br />Smith creates a whole typology about ethnic groups.  He claims  that all ethnic groups (or, as he calls them, 'ethnies', from the French  for 'ethnic community') have several key aspects, including a name, common  myth of descent, shared history and culture, territory and a sense of  solidarity.  They also fit into two main categories: lateral ethnies, which  are based on an aristocracy and clerisy and rule over an indefinite but  often large area, and the vertical ethnies, based on a urban, priestly or  artisan class which rule over a small but clearly marked area.<br />Smith  discusses the development of nations in the context of the French  Revolution, when the modern concept of citizenship entered the picture, and  here his narrative lets up a bit.  Devoting most of the book to ethnicity,  when he comes to discussing the two main types of modern nations -  territorial (or non-ethnic) and ethnic - he spends too much time on the  latter and not enough on former.  This is an important flaw, since he  thereby almost dismisses those nations like the U.S. which do not have an  ethnic foundation and thus do not fit his theory.<br />Nonetheless this book  is useful for the sole but important purpose of reinforcing the link  between many nations and their ethnic pasts.	2000-08-04
US	50697384	R257Q604KUAACS	0452009537	752201763	The Holocaust in History (Tauber Institute for the Study of European Jewry)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	a classic	First published in 1987, this book holds up to the test of time.  Marrus is great at putting the Holocaust in perspective, laying a high amount of blame on the indifference of the Germans, Poles, Allies and the neutrals  (the Vatican, Switzerland, etc.).  He shows how anti-semitism was not  confined just to Germany at the time - at the turn of the century it was  strongest in France and Russia and was at its highest ever in the U.S.  during World War II - and how most top Nazis did not join the movement  because of their belief in anti-semitism.  He also shows the context of the  Holocaust in the larger picture of World War II: more than three times as  many Russians were killed (20 million) as Jews.<br />Marrus is also very good  at describing the Holocaust itself - how it reached a fervor in 1942 (when  more than half of all Jews were killed) and how only half of the 6 million  were killed in camps.  He dismisses the view popularized by Hannah Arendt  that the Jews acted like sheep led to the slaughter: he convincingly shows  that the Jews were in total disbelief about the Holocaust and did resist  when they actually knew what was going on.  Finally, he discusses the  actions of those few people who actually helped out the Jews, namely the  Dutch, Italians, Danes, Bulgarians and Hungarians.<br />All in all, a very  good book on a depressing topic.	2000-07-26
US	50697384	R3PAA3YPYYOBX2	0868405841	203872132	Packaging of Australia: Politics and Culture Wars	Books	4	0	0	N	N	good little book, but a bit expensive	I read this book due to my interest in contemporary Australia and ended up learning quite a lot even though it's only 140 pages long.  Melleuish divides Australian history into three parts - colonial (1788-1900), modern (1901-1960s) and contemporary (since the 1960s), where he spends most of  his time.  He discusse the ways in which many people like Hanson, Horne and  Keating have attempted to transform Australian culture through various  quick-fix 'packages', i.e. economic rationalism, republicanism and  multiculturalism.  Melleuish examines the myths behind each package and  instead calls for 'overlapping loyalties and multiple loyalties.	2000-07-22
US	50697384	R3DLYTS0BILXUO	0816623112	937519347	Nationalist Thought and the Colonial World: A Derivative Discourse	Books	3	15	24	N	N	a decent book once you cut through all the jargon	If it isn't obvious from the title of this book that this is going to be full of postmodern jargon, it becomes clear quite quickly that Chaterjee prefers difficult terms like 'problematic', 'thematic' and 'discourse'  without always defining them - he even admits his admiration for Rorty,  Barthes, Foucault and Derrida.<br />Nonetheless, underneath all of this  verbiage is a strong and convincing argument about the three stages of  nationalism in India: the moment of departure (epitomized by Bankimchandra  Chatttopadhyay), the moment of manoeuvre (Gandhi) and the moment of arrival  (Nehru).  Chatterjee clearly shows how nationalism in India was akin to  Gramsci's concept of the 'passive revolution' - i.e. merely a drive towards  independence, not towards transforming or breaking up colonial instutions.   He argues that, instead of supporting nationalism, we should instead  challenge the marriage between reason and capital.<br />From the title of this  book one might expect Chatterjee to draw links to other anti-colonial  nationalisms but he doesn't; rather he only discusses India (not even other  parts of South Asia).  While this approach doesn't really make this book  too useful for examining anti-colonial nationalisms in general, for someone  like me who has never read a book on Indian nationalism this is a good  introduction.	2000-07-20
US	50697384	RD8E3XS99YJD9	0415131014	228775884	Citizenship, Nationality and Migration in Europe	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Outdated and too idealistic	This collection of 11 essays, although only four years old, is already so outdated that it is practically useless as a guide to current citizenship debates in Europe.  The decline of the Northern League in Italy, the  changes to the citizenship laws in Germany and the current debates about  refugees in the U.K. have invalidated many of the theses presented here.   Furthermore, many of the authors either fill their essays with postmodern  jargon (i.e. Max Silverman's discussion of 'dangerous discourses') or have  little idea about the meanings of nationality and nationalism outside of  law.  As a result the authors tend to condemn nationalism without examining  the reasons for its support, thus leading them to predict the advent of  post-national citizenship in the near future, something truly idealistic  and pie-in-the-sky.<br />The reason I didn't give this book only 1 star is  because it does contain a couple of good histories of citizenship in  Britain, France and Germany.  For instance, I found it fascinating that the  reason why France follows a law of jus soli (i.e. those born on French soil  can become French citizens) is due to the nineteenth-century desire to  force all people in France to become French citizens.<br />In any case, I  don't recommend this book for the above reasons.	2000-07-18
US	50697384	R3EIDL0QUNQFPE	0195536495	46905693	A Republican Manifesto	Books	4	0	1	N	N	good introduction to Australian republicanism	Even though this book is six years old it is still worth reading as a good argument for why Australia should be a republic.  Hirst shows how the Queen does not serve as a good Australian head of state - i.e. when she supports  British interests over Australian interests and is too far above Australian  politics to intervene in constitutional crises (as happened in 1975).  To  replace the Queen he wants to have a popularly elected president, like in  Austria or Ireland, not one elected by parliament (as was offered in the  recent referendum).<br />Although not as good as Mark McKenna's _The Captive  Republic_, this is still a worthy read.	2000-07-14
US	50697384	R1F6CBXF5WAZA2	0520207432	474980498	The Myth of Continents: A Critique of Metageography	Books	5	33	35	N	N	better than Edward Said or Samuel Huntington	I'm surprised to be the first to review this book.  It was recommended to me a couple of years ago by a professor and I've only now gotten around to reading it: it's definitely one of the best books I've read recently.<br />As  the title suggests, the book explores the myth of continents.  The authors  show the origin of the idea of the continent in ancient Greece and show its  continued use throughout the centuries even as the addition of the Americas  and Australia to the world map caused more and more incongruities with the  original Greek and medieval world system.<br />The authors also look at the  concepts of 'East' and 'West' and the similarly overused (but underdefined)  'Orient' and 'Occident', arguing against Edward Said for the continuation  of a world divided into geographical regions, albeit ones that does not  draw upon geographical determinism or cartographic ethnocentrism.  Unlike  Samuel Huntington they stress their world regions (i.e. African-America and  Central Asia) as not always coherent territories with distinct borders.   Agreeing with Herodotus and Toynbee about the need to examine the  continental system, they thoroughly discuss the philosophical and political  views of continents in recent centuries, looking at Rousseau, Herder,  Hegel, Montesquieu, H.G. Wells, J. Burckhardt, Wallerstein and  others.<br />This book is so good at deconstructing the built-up assumptions  of the aforementioned terms that I hesistate to list any faults, although I  should at least mention that I would have liked a few more maps and a  separate section on how and why the authors chose each world region and its  borders (i.e. why not a separate region for Madagascar).<br />In any case,  this is a convincing and powerful book.	2000-07-12
US	50697384	R360HUI0E8421N	0198293569	413836515	On Nationality (Oxford Political Theory)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	good philosophical discussion of nationality	This book contains a good discussion of nationality and its consequences for our daily lives.  Miller discusses different philosophical positions on nationality, namely ethical universalism vs. ethical particularism and  conservative nationalism vs. liberal nationalism.  He believes that  nationality can serve many constructive purposes, including keeping us  together as an (imagined) community plus giving a basis for trust within a  state.  Miller recognizes the problems inherent in nationality - for  instance the never-ending problems of supporting national  self-determination as a doctrine - although he claims that nationality and  nationalism are not equivalent.  He argues that we should make nationality  as non-ethnic as possible to include all members of the nation.<br />Miller  does falter when it comes to the ethics of nationality in international  relations, claiming that we should sponsor a 'friendly rivalry' between  nations and help other nations help themselves without realizing how such a  position can lead towards violating his belief in the inherent right for  all nations to exist.  At the end of the book he also supports the right of  a state to offer protection to its national culture to prevent the  McDonaldization of the world's cultures, something that can end up being  quite illiberal in response to something many authors (like Anthony Smith)  believe has been blown out of proportion.  Nonetheless this book is quite  generally quite convicing and is thus valuable reading for students of  political theory and nationalism alike.	2000-06-22
US	50697384	R1AAGYF0CY49YB	0192892606	364445892	Nationalism (Oxford Readers)	Books	5	23	24	N	N	comprehensive reader of theories of nationalism	Professors John Hutchinson and Anthony D. Smith, both at the London School of Economics, have put together here a great collection of texts from the major writers on nationalism over the last 100 years.  Starting with Ernest  Renan, Joseph Stalin and Max Weber, the book also includes extracts from  Benedict Anderson, Walker Connor, Partha Chatterjee, Karl Deutsch, Ernest  Gellner, Liah Greenfeld, EJ Hobsbawm, Donald Horowitz, Elie Kedourie, Hans  Kohn, James Mayall, Tom Nairn, and Anthony Smith himself, in addition to  many others.  As in Smith's _Nationalism and Modernism_, all perspectives  of the field are represented here.  There are 49 essays organized into  seven chapters, complete with an introduction to each plus notes, a  bibliography, information about each author and an index.<br />This book is a  definite must for anyone interested in nationalism.	2000-06-16
US	50697384	R73K0YVSHLI5T	0415063418	325352758	Nationalism and Modernism	Books	5	38	38	N	N	excellent overview of theories of nationalism	This book by Anthony D. Smith, Professor of Ethnicity and Nationalism at the London School of Economics, is perhaps the best overview of the many theories of nationalism in one volume.  As a sort of sequel to his first  book, _Theories of Nationalism_, Smith summarizes each major theory and  offers his critique.  He spends a good amount of time on the seminal  theories of Ernest Gellner and Elie Kedourie plus has significant sections  on John Armstrong, Benedict Anderson, Michael Hechter, EJ Hobsbawm, Tom  Nairn and many others, including himself.  Each chapter is organized by  theme, starting with the grand old men of sociology, Durkheim and Weber,  moving through the modernists, primordalists, perennialists and  ethno-symbolists before ending with the postmodernists.  (If you've never  heard of some of these distinctions before, Smith spells them out quite  clearly and succintly in the conclusion.)<br />This book is thus valuable for  all students of nationalism, even if you don't agree with Smith's  critiques: his summaries alone make the book worthwhile.	2000-06-14
US	50697384	R294C7DPSSVGIC	0521576490	160947052	Nationalism Reframed: Nationhood and the National Question in the New Europe	Books	3	18	23	N	N	somewhat unconnected and jargon-filled series of essays	Rogers Brubaker, Professor of Sociology at UCLA and part-time teacher at the Central European University in Budapest, has written six decent essays on nationalism here which don't really comprise a full book.  Originally  published in such journals as 'Daedalus' and 'Ethnic and Racial Studies',  the essays present some interesting new concepts for the study of  nationalism like 'nationalizing states' (a process which Benedict Anderson  might call 'official nationalism') and 'homeland nationalism' (where a  nation-state has significant numbers of its cultural community located  outside its borders, i.e. Germany between the world wars and Russia  today).<br />Yet Brubaker sometimes dips a bit much into jargon-filled  sociological theory: for example, drawing from Pierre Bourdieu (who has a  blurb on the back of the book), Brubaker defines a national minority as 'a  dynamic political stance, or, more precisely, a family of related yet  mutually competing stances.'  Furthermore, he credits institutionalization  too much for nationalism in the former USSR (i.e. Central Asia), calling  nationalism a political phenomenon and thus not drawing enough attention to  culture, language, religion, etc.<br />Nonetheless the essays are worth a  quick read, especially the one comparing Weimar Germany and contemporary  Russia.	2000-06-10
US	50697384	R2KIGVE91RXJ2	0521437733	749302823	The Invention of Tradition (Canto)	Books	4	33	46	N	N	interesting but somewhat inconsequential	This book, edited by the famous Marxist historian Erich Hobsbawm and the African specialist Terrence Ranger, is a collection of historical essays dealing with the invention of national or imperial traditions.  Hobsbawm  writes about Europe 1870-1914, Ranger about colonial Africa, Hugh  Trevor-Roper about Scotland, Prys Morgan about Wales, David Cannadine about  the British monarchy, and Bernard Cohn about imperial India.  All are  historians except for Cohn, an anthropologist, and all write about the  nineteenth century.<br />All seven essays (Hobsbawm wrote two) are well  written and clearly show the invention of traditions as a means of  'inculcating certain values and norms of behaviour by repetition'.  In his  heart Hobsbawm obviously wants to show that these new traditions are lies  and that he and the other writers have done us a great service in  uncovering them.  Yet while many of these traditions were invented, many of  their inventors would not lie about their young age (with the exception of  the amazing brothers Allen of Scotland), and all of those traditions that  resonated among people did draw from older, 'real' traditions.  These  qualifications, which Hobsbawm partially admits, heavily qualify the  strength of his arguments, thus making the book an interesting but somewhat  inconsequential collection of essays.	2000-06-08
US	50697384	R3HVQRCJ1RQZCW	0631188851	46196016	Nationalism	Books	4	23	29	N	N	flawed ideological history of nationalism	Elie Kedourie obviously has an axe to grind about nationalism - as a Jew he was exiled from Iraq and settled in London.  In this book he traces the ideological development of nationalism from Kant, Herder and Fichte,  claiming that nationalism was invented when Fichte gave his Addresses to  the German Nation in the early nineteenth century.  Kedourie unfortunately  places far too much emphasis on Kant - who was much more concerned with the  individual than the community - and not enough on Hegel.  Kedourie also  neglects such important writers as Rousseau and Mill and does not attempt  to trace just how Fichte et al. influenced specific nationalists.   Nevertheless this is a well-written polemic against nationalism from  someone who dealt with it first hand.	2000-06-04
