US	50694645	R2BM5XMDGHBSGX	1885119712	366767262	War Without Garlands: Barbarossa 1941/42	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Written like a first person account	Kershaw has a masterpiece here, and this book will explain in graphic detail the difficulty faced by the Landser in a 6 month period, from the start of the invasion until the end of December of 1941 and early 1942. Much of the book highlighting the words of the soldiers themselves, who had a clarity of thought in describing the horrendous and excruciating pace in few words of the bitter fighting against a foe who often proved to be suicidally brave, inflicting casualties to a German army unprepared for the level of intensity they faced in this alien foe, in this alien land, one that went on and on forever into featureless steppe, and when slogging over the top of a hill one could look out and see many more ahead, with little else surrounding the never ending march. Tired and exhausted from continual movemment to support the Panzers as they encircled yet another number of Red Army Divisions, and without the infantry the pockets could not be collapsed. The trapped Soviets inside the circle would often charge forward in mass attacks in attempts to break out of this pocket, and their bodies piled up all around German machine gunners. Some would fight it out to the end and the result were companies depleted of both seasoned officers and NCO's from the brutal amount of resulting carnage.<br /><br />Some accounts tell of Soviets fighting a desperate attack to break out of these pockets and being on the verge of breaking through thin German ranks only to suddenly stop and sit down, obeying an order given from a safer distance inside the pocket by a superior officer to instead surrender. The Germans simply had no idea they would be facing this kind of enemy, one they could not make sense of and was very hard to defeat, fighting on in hopeless situations. Soviet armor is much discussed, and had the Red Army tank crews had the German Panzer crews training and tactics they likely could have inflicted staggering losses. As it were the training of Panzer crews would usually defeat the technical superiority of their T-34 tanks.<br /><br />The severity that followed the German advance (looted and burned villages) would lead to an escalation of violence by both partisans and the Red Army. Many German POW's were later found dead with genital mutilations and eye gougings. This predictably lead to a further increase of atrocities from the Wehrmacht or SS in response, and the Soviet fate was no better. Only 3 of every 100 Red Army prisoners would survive themselves, most of them starved to death.<br /><br />The post that the author refers to also contains Soviet letters and diaries, much of it retrieved from the dead bodies of the Soviets and somehow this information has been preserved for posterity. The power of the speech of these soldiers, both German and Soviet, says volumes in only two or three sentences. They convey a hell that will show the reader that in the first week of December this was clearly a soon to be defeated German army. Their supply chain was served mainly by only two rail lines and non-stop Luftwaffe flights. Soon they would lose their air superiority, despite enormous early losses of Soviet aircraft in the opening months as surprise allowed thousands to be shot on the ground.<br /><br />Motor convoys had to deal with seas of mud and later arctic tempatures, and horse drawn transport that saw entire companies of horses die from overwork, exhaustion and exposure. All of these reasons, to include an enemy that knew the countryside and was prepared for it, further weakened the German supply chain. Much of the Germans winter clothing was stolen from Soviet homes and POW's. Newsreels and newspaper accounts of nothing but \\"glorious victory\\" were soon looked at with skepticism from a German nation that responded to appeals from Goebbels himself for warm winter clothing, and the post from the soldiers to their families, it is their words, letters, diaries and conversations of these soldiers themselves that give the power of imagination to this book, as it is their words that describe it so well, and Kershaw uses this post quite often throughout the entire book.  It is a look at war through the eyes of the Landser, often in their words, junior officers and enlisted mainly.<br /><br />Army Group Centre, who's advance is usually examined, contains both the discussions of Guderian and other generals who clearly are aware of what the OKW in Berlin has no concept of: The Divisions are now mere skeletons of what they once were.<br /><br />Superb book, highly recommeded.their words that describe it so well, and Kershaw uses this post quite often throughout the entire book.  It is a look at war through the eyes of the Landser, often in their words, junior officers and enlisted mainly.     Army Group Centre, who's advance is usually examined, contains both the discussions of Guderian and other generals who clearly are aware of what the OKW in Berlin has no concept of: The Divisions are now mere skeletons of what they once were.    Superb book, highly recommeded.	2005-09-18
US	50694645	R32TZ2W65NUBCA	1585422789	302664021	Ultramarathon Man: Confessions of an All-Night Runner	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Amazing story of endurance in the extreme	This is a great, first person look at what it is like to run amazing distances in sometimes extremely difficult conditions, such as in the Western States 100 where runners have to scale four mountain peaks in the course of the run. At the top of his first peak it was snowcapped and in the 30's, and at the bottom of the mountain he hit stifling heat in the 100's. He managed to trudge forward and finish the race, doing quite well in the process, but it was obvious that it taxed him to his very limits. The story of waiting out wind gusts and bitter cold in the Antarctic for weeks while waiting for the weather to clear and then go out and run a marathon in those conditions, all the while NOT wearing snowshoes (he loaned them to someone else and later regretted the decision) showed there was alomost nothng, not extreme heat, distance or arctic conditions that can stop this guy.<br /><br />That said, the book seemed to consistently concentrate on his acheivements, his likes and dislikes, and certainly was a testament to his athletic prowess, and often times the author struck me as self absorbed and arrogant. Granted, accomplishing what he has would probably require some of this, but I never found it in me to like this person, but I certainly marveled at his incredible athletic accomplishments.	2005-05-19
US	50694645	R35PX8WUN70T1F	0138399360	33289809	The SS, Alibi of a Nation 1922-1945	Books	5	18	22	N	Y	Maybe the most informative of its kind	This book is an exceptional work, and I must first point out that while it is crammed full of factual information, intimate conversations, the overall scheming and intra-party politics in the formation of the SS and the constant power struggles, this book is by no means a dry, statistical type of read, only suitable for the determined historian. It is not always easy to keep track of the major (and minor) personalities and their constant intrigue and subterfuge at all levels, but the author does a masterful job of balancing the, at times, overwhelming amount of information with a very personal and intimate flair keeps the reader awake and engaged in the story as it develops.<br />Mark Werger, an author of many books on the SS, recently stated this was easily in the top 10 of best books he had read, and I can see why. When you finish this book you will have a much more throrough understanding of the SS thanks to the painstaking and meticulous research performed by Gerald Reitlinger. It is so informative you will probably never part with it if you are truly interested in the subject.	2004-04-11
US	50694645	R3J0ILWU614EYL	1574880527	736678770	Lieutenant Ramsey's War: From Horse Soldier to Guerrilla Commander	Books	5	36	38	N	Y	A riveting story of life on the run.	This book describes what barely can be described. The hardships, the fear, the exhaustion, the hunger, the brutality, the uncertainty of ones fate. It's all right here, and all are apt descriptions of the life of Lt. Ramsey from the fall of Bataan until the time in 1945 that Gen MacArthur returned to liberate the Phillipines.<br />Lt. Ramsey (who was promotoed to Lt. Colonel over the course of his service in the jungle) was a very important leader of the resistance. He personally exchanged a few messages over the radio with MacArthur himself, and it was years before Ramsey even knew that MacArthur was getting his messages, as he went without radio contact for the first two years of the war.<br />Many of Ramsey's fellow resistance leaders, some of them officers he served with, or under, prior to the war, were captured, tortured, and beheaded. Informants were everywhere, and every move was a risk. Yet Ramsey never sat still, and his years were spent traveling, at great risk, throughout the Phillipines and organizing the resistance. Many close calls with the Kempa-tei, the Japanese secret police, followed. Ramsey eventually became the most wanted man on the island, after many of his fellow leaders were captured. He eventually went on to command a force of 40,000 resistance fighters.<br />The leader of the Kempa-tei, General Baba, personally conducted many of the raids and had a picture of Ramsey on his desk. Many times Ramsey was only yards from Japanese troops.<br />Of course, when this all started, Ramsey had no clue how to wage guerrilla war. But he learned, through trial and error, and it is amazing that he even survived the war. If that isn't enough, this is a man who survived having his appendix removed in the jungle by a doctor who had no morphine to numb the pain!<br />This is the kind of stuff Hollywood needs to make movies about. Instead we are stuck with the same dumbed down, recycled nonsense that apparently someone finds entertaining. And sadly the exploits of this true American hero go largely unknown by the majority of this country. I'm glad I am no longer one of them.oits of this true American hero go largely unknown by the majority of this country. I'm glad I am no longer one of them.	2004-01-03
US	50694645	RHJNKUDKFIKI4	0849955084	291881303	Teamwork Makes The Dreamwork	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Nothing new here.	The book is a compiliation of famous quotes, some short stories about influential people and Mr. Maxwell's contributons, where he uses catchy acronyms to imply some kind of motivational message to the reader.<br />This has all been done to death, and there is nothing memorable or noteworthy that you haven't either heard somewhere else or read before. The book is surrounded by colorful pictures and splashy graphics, but as far as literary content is concerned it is positively average, at best.	2003-11-02
US	50694645	RY2ZB9FPJKL63	0304354481	990224110	Cassell Military Classics: Last Days of the Reich: The Collapse of Nazi Germany, May 1945	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	A concise and richly detailed story...	I almost gave this book a five star rating, but for a 221 page paperback with sparse maps to warrant a perfect grade it has to be exceptional. While not exceptional it is definitely above average and graphically illustrates the closing days on both the Eastern and Western Fronts.<br />Published by Cassell Military Paperbacks, the paper quality, printing and overall shape of the book is excellent. It contains only 2 or 3 maps in the entire book but has quite a few very interesting pictures of the closing stages of Germany's collapse. The typeset is small, so alot of information is contained in these 221 pages. Italics are often used, as Lucas goes to primary sources for much of his material.<br />The book is divided into three sections: The Eastern Front, which includes Austria and Czechslovakia, as well as a brief mention of the Italy (Southern Front) and finishes with the Western Front.  Almost half of the book pertains to the Eastern Front, and with good reason. That accounted for 7 out of 10 German deaths. In his accounting he looks at the fortess city of Breslau and also explores the vengeance wrought by the Red Army not only against this seige of Breslau but also how native populations rose up against German civilians in both Prague and Vienna. His use of primary sources reveal first hand the beatings, rapes and murder of German civilians as they trekked back towards a battered and completely broken \\"Fatherland\\".<br />Lucas has a very vivid style of writing, and his description of the suffering of so many is done in moderation, so the reading does not become thoroughly depressing. The book can be finished quickly, yet the subject is written with such clarity that many images will remain in your memory for a long time afterwards.<br />Highly recommended.	2002-06-16
US	50694645	R307MCQGLGAQGG	0670030414	435949952	The Fall of Berlin 1945	Books	4	15	22	N	Y	Beevor can (and has) done much better than this...	First of all, if you truly want to know what this author is capable of then I strongly recommend you read his book 'Stalingrad: The Fateful Seige, 1942-1943' instead of 'Berlin 1945'. That said, there were many things I both enjoyed about this book, and there were many subjects left untouched or just brushed upon that needed further explanation.<br />Unlike his book 'Stalingrad' Beevor never spends too much time on any one individual, thereby not allowing the reader to get an intimate character portrayal of many key figures. The maps are almost an afterthought, and while the book covers the periods of January to May of 1945 almost all the maps pertain to the months of April and May. While he clearly is focused on the Eastern Front and \\"Army Group Vistula\\" he spends next to no time explaining what happened that caused such dire consequences as Germany faced in 1945. The book spent no time at all revelaing the ultimate fate of any of these key players, whether they perished in captivity, won their freedom or escaped across the Elbe and the relative paradise of the Western Allies. And the book generally followed a predictable course, with the Volksturm, Wehrmacht and Hitler Youth only fighting to escape either capture from the Red Army or a hanging at the hands of the SS or Feldgendarmie. The Red Army, on the other hand, were bent solely on rape, pillage, wanton destruction and random execution. While I realize this is certainly true and often characteristic of the Ostfront, Beevor shed no light on the brave and selfless actions of so many, both Soviet or German. This book contains no heroes.<br />However, as usual, Beevor paints a graphic portrait of human suffering, and this book, unlike so many others, spends a good deal of time on the civilian population. The hardships were hard to comprehend. The suffering (often taken in stride and with dark humor by German civilians) was brutal, depressing, and savage. If nothing else one can come away with a better understanding of the carnage suffered by all. The largest migration in world history was due to the advance of the Red Army. The Nazi leadership, unwilling to admit defeat, arrogantly called for \\"fighting to the last man\\" and \\"no retreat of civilians\\" until it was often too late. The Gauletiers in charge of each town would then slip away, leaving the civilians to suffer the wrath of the Red Army. This is explored in depth. As was the Soviet practice of whipping their soldiers into a hysterical, alchohol induced frenzy of revenge. The Red Army was a band of ruthless rapists on the prowl, and everyone knew not to move until morning, when the soldiers were sleeping off their drunkeness. It was often to no avail.  To this day the former Soviet Union would never admit their wanton cruelty and wretchedly excessive use of force. The scale of this brutality is staggering.<br /> Unfortunately, the many hundreds of thousands who died so that others had a chance to escape out of this cauldron were never recognized. A great disservice to these brave men and women.<br />Definitely worth reading.g of the carnage suffered by all. The largest migration in world history was due to the advance of the Red Army. The Nazi leadership, unwilling to admit defeat, arrogantly called for \\"fighting to the last man\\" and \\"no retreat of civilians\\" until it was often too late. The Gauletiers in charge of each town would then slip away, leaving the civilians to suffer the wrath of the Red Army. This is explored in depth. As was the Soviet practice of whipping their soldiers into a hysterical, alchohol induced frenzy of revenge. The Red Army was a band of ruthless rapists on the prowl, and everyone knew not to move until morning, when the soldiers were sleeping off their drunkeness. It was often to no avail.  To this day the former Soviet Union would never admit their wanton cruelty and wretchedly excessive use of force. The scale of this brutality is staggering. <br /> Unfortunately, the many hundreds of thousands who died so that others had a chance to escape out of this cauldron were never recognized. A great disservice to these brave men and women.<BR>Definitely worth reading.	2002-06-12
US	50694645	R2X9UQ1AP21DDP	0380729660	881168660	Good to Go: The Life And Times Of A Decorated Member Of The U.s. Navy's Elite Seal Team Two	Books	4	19	22	N	N	A thrilling and honest look at a warrior.	This is a frank and honest look at the exploits of a Navy SEAL.<br />While his actual combat exploits I have no way of proving true, his revealing and in-depth look at his own personal failures and in service power struggles surely don't all have happy endings, and the author is unflinching in his appraisal.<br />His time in country could of ended on his first mission. He first got tangled in the tow rope, and the boat pulling away dragged him underwater before he cut himself free, struggling with his gear and swimming back to shore. He then mistakenly interpreted a hand signal and made his first killing as a scared SEAL when he silently intercepted a VC lookout and knifed him. He was told to keep silent. He then got seperated from his recon platoon and made his way back to the rendevous point by himself while being pursued, and all the while he was unsure of which way to go. This was the start of three tours of duty that saw much action and direct combat with VC and NVA. This elite soldier found himself in the business of hand to hand combat many times, and his stories are told as if this author actually relished the amount of violence he was able to bring to bear. A warrior who looked for action, he later leaves this theater and sees firsthand the rivalry and disrespect he and other warriors feel for those officers spent little or no time in Vietnam and looked disdainfully upon those who actually fought there. This jealously, and the countering lack of respect, almost cost the author his Navy career on more than one occasion. In the end it proved his undoing in the military.<br />A very interesting tale of an insiders view of Vietnam, this book also explores his personal struggles and the bonds he forged in combat.	2002-05-03
US	50694645	R1OZOVORSKO1OR	055356076X	425643422	Fortunate Son: The Autobiography Of Lewis B.Puller,Jr.	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A terribly powerful book...	It is hard to describe with clarity the range of emotions this book can provoke. All successful books, of which this Pulitzer Prize winner undoubtedly is, are capable of stimulating the readers imagination to levels that develop and cultivate a keen understanding and relation to the story. That is truly where this book succeeeds.<br />Lewis B. Puller graduated from OCS and, somewhat reluctantly, followed in the footsteps of his very famous Marine Corps father. A slight and unaggressive man, Puller never really felt secure with carrying the famous family name throughout his training, always struggling to remain near the top of his class and always feeling like he was not quite suited for his chosen profession. He describes his courtship of his future wife and his relation with his conservative, Virgina based family, of which he is very close to his mother but somewhat distant from his rough and tumble father 'Chesty'.<br />After graduating from Basic training and OCS, of which his failures and struggles are dutifully explored, he then describes his time in a Marine Corps Recon platoon with such stark descriptions that it is easy to feel exactly as frustrated, scared and uncertain as Lewis Puller did when first leading patrols through the jungle. He quickly matures to being a capable junior officer, and expertly describes the trials his platoon is put through.<br />Then it hits him, the boobytrap that forever changes his life. He will describe the agony of his realization upon learning to live all over again in a VA hospital, and will describe his fellow patients as well, some of which are famous for their toughness and later become important political figures who still are today. And then the blackness of alcholism and despair take over, exacerbating the condition of this ex-Marine in a way that threatens to ruin both his marriage and his struggle for survival. But Puller rebounds, working hard to get over his addictions, vividly describing every step of the way as he recovers enough to try his hand at politics.<br />When reading the final chapters I felt a sense of dread, knowing the ultimate outcome of this autobiography was not contained in its pages. A sad and tragic ending to one of the most superbly written books I have ever read. I take some comfort that he left this for the sake of others to understand his trials, triumphs and failures along the way. A Pulitzer Prize winner indeed.e recovers enough to try his hand at politics.<br />When reading the final chapters I felt a sense of dread, knowing the ultimate outcome of this autobiography was not contained in its pages. A sad and tragic ending to one of the most superbly written books I have ever read. I take some comfort that he left this for the sake of others to understand his trials, triumphs and failures along the way. A Pulitzer Prize winner indeed.	2002-01-08
US	50694645	RVVRJOS3EQB4F	0804115753	433304328	Death in the A Shau Valley: L Company LRRPs in Vietnam, 1969-1970	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The best I have read on Special Op's Vietnam....	This book stands alone on the merits of its content. It is characterized by excellent writing. I have read other books about LRRP's and Special Op's in Vietnam, and most have been characterized by poor writing and sketchy details. Not so here.<br />Mr. Chambers has written a truly superb book that never once lets up with the riveting suspense. It is simply one exciting tale after another, and this is one ex-soldier who knows how to vividly detail his experiences 'in-country'.<br />There are many missions in this book that will leave you leaning forward in anticipation. Nightime airmobile extractions under blackout conditions while NVC soldiers were taken by surprise, only yards away. Once Mr. Chambers had an NVC soldier grab him at the same moment he was extracted while holding the line, having to kick away his assailant. He paints an excellent picture of a silent life, using hand-signals and often traveling at night, avoiding any trails and utilizing complete stealth.<br />His recollections are not always positive,as he discovered another party who had their deception revealed and were left dead for their comrades to find. Another time while on leave in Vietnam he visits a friend at a training facility, and watches as an instructor is showing a class the proper way to handle a grenade and it explodes, causing him to lose his arm. Even using the radio while no enemy was near was hazardous, when 'miking' the transmitter on a mountaintop caused stray electricity at this high altitude to send an electrical strike to the transmitter, necessitating an Airmobile evacuation of the injured.<br />Mr. Chambers went on to earn a Masters Degree after his service. This was clear from the first chapter, as I found myself completely involved in this book, finding it hard to put it down. A riveting book that better describes life behind the lines than others of its genre.	2001-11-10
US	50694645	R1XUK4VLGDH8MK	0738847178	238476126	THE TRACKS OF GOD:  The Story of Henry Oehmsen, Waffen SS Soldier of World War II and Prisoner of the Soviets	Books	2	13	19	N	Y	Somewhat interesting, but.....	I have to admit I didn't realize it was a paperback when I ordered it. The price led me to believe otherwise. I did, however, realize it was not a very long book at only 172 pages. The story of the author surviving the war after a stint in the Waffen SS and 32 months of Soviet captivity made the book sound very interesting. It wasn't.<br />This book can be read in one evening. I happened to read it in two. The title indicated it would be a story focusing on his WWII experiences and captivity. It touched on these briefly, and at only 172 pages, it went by real fast. The book spent only 60 pages on his basic training, experience on the Eastern Front and his 32 months of captivity. While some of the incidents the author recounts are interesting, there is really nothing memorable said. The writing is frank and straightforward, and moves along with the candor of a story found in Readers Digest. It was a quick and simple read, and could of possibly received another star from this reviewer if it were not for the unreasonably high price.  Poor writing, short book, high price. Look elsewhere, there are plenty of good ones available.	2001-10-31
US	50694645	RSKHDR8U3NFDE	0201407221	444645743	Wings Of Morning: The Story Of The Last American Bomber Shot Down Over Germany In World War II	Books	5	25	26	N	N	What it must of been like....	The writing style of this author is as vivid as any. He reconstructs the life of not only his uncle Howard but also of the crewman of &quot;The Black Cat&quot;. You will feel intimately close to all these men, and it can leave you with a sinking feeling as you know of the fate of this aircraft. This is not a Hollywood ending, nor is it exceptionally sad, it is just the realities of WWII, told in a frank and descriptive style that will allow the reader to fully grasp the camaraderie and cohesion that goes on among the crew of a B-24. Even this is not without difficulty as one crewmember becomes increasingly withdrawn and violent, eventually leading to his removal from the crew. A searing and unforgettable book that will allow you into world of a bomber crew based in England. This book goes far beyond the scope of just bombing missions over Germany, but explores the childhoods and recreation time of these soldiers before their fateful mission.<br />I sent this book to a pilot of 35 missions over Germany in WWII, and he told me via E-mail that the writing was great and the research excellent. From the voice of experience. A wonderful book.	2001-10-28
US	50694645	R3UXQK9DLYQ3Z4	0785329633	484783177	The Holocaust Chronicle	Books	5	16	16	N	N	The Holocaust intimately explained.	This is a vivid and monumental work, and should be lauded on the basis of its many merits. One of them is that this enormously complex subject is often explained in one number: Six million. It is a mind boggling number that a person cannot readily comprehend, and therefore any personal value attached to this tragedy is often not felt. The Holocaust Chronicle has taken a step to correct this, using an absolute wealth of photographs (many you have probably never seen before) to try and present to the reader the progression of Nazi malice against European Jews. It simply does a wonderful job of making this information not only readable but easy to digest. Every page contains multiple photos, and a timeline runs along the bottom of every page relating some form of persecution that happened on that month and year. Every other page has a yellow box with the personal story of someone who either suffered at the hands of the Nazis, someone who helped the Jews in their plight or someone who committed horriffic crimes against humanity. This book is written in easy-to-read style, and I think the intent is to convey this terrible chapter of humanity in a way that will not only be easily understood but also something the reader finds interesting and knowledgeable. This history is perfectly balanced, and the research is outstanding. An excellent reference in the back allows you to look up the exact dates that many anti-Jewish laws were enacted or abuses were committed, making this an excellent choice for anyone wanting to educate young adults on this sad chapter of humanity. One other thing: There is always a Holocaust denier in every group, and this subject always bring one out of every crowd. Please commpletely disregard the reviewer comments that are titled &quot;Inaccurate and Shameful&quot;, as nothing could be farther from the truth. This is a work of historical integrity that should be in every High School library.	2001-08-26
US	50694645	R2QRFNC6LMWFXR	1576737330	89800612	The Prayer of Jabez:  Breaking Through to the Blessed Life	Books	1	8	13	N	N	Give me a break	This book was recently given to me by a church pastor. And then I read the reviews here, and said to myself  &quot;This is what all the fuss is about?&quot;  Something that has generated so many reader reviews in such a short time must indeed be worth reading, right? Wrong! This book reads like an infomercial, complete with stunning claims of success. It seems the message  &quot;It's okay to ask for more, and you'll get it!&quot; is typical of today, and this 96 page book is a synopsis of society. I found nothing uplifting or inspiring in its pages, and the authors claims I do not intend to refute.<br />The author was once lonely while on a ship for business reasons, and wondered how he could help someone. Apparently, the Jabez prayer came through. He was led to help someone in a struggling marriage that he briefly met when the ship docked in Turkey. What bothered me is the way his advice was found to be helpful, with the newly restored couple running to the dock as the ship pulled away, screaming &quot;Thanks!&quot; He also ministered to woman on a plane, who also had marriage troubles. He was just led to her, and boldly walked up and said something to the effect he wanted to help her. Of course, they ended up sitting together.And before the plane landed, you guessed it, her marriage was shored up also.<br />It is not being led to these people I doubt. The Lord will always work in peoples lives this way. However, it is the miraculous transformation this author makes in peoples lives in a matter of hours, not coincidentally how long it takes to read this book. And therein lies its message. It seems everyone is looking for instant gratification. There are always advertisements for exercise machines that provide &quot;AMAZING results with just 3 minutes a day!&quot;<br />Is &quot;The Jabez Prayer&quot; any different?	2001-08-07
US	50694645	R3S21RXS1BTGAR	0385495641	161920063	Ghost Soldiers: The Forgotten Epic Story of World War II's Most Dramatic Mission	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	And the beat goes on.....	First of all, this is an exceptional read, and the story is vivid and descriptive as Hampton Sides draws the reader into the inferno of the Bataan Death March, the subsequent years of captivity in the hellhole Cabanatuan POW camp, and the taut suspense of a surprise raid on Cabanatuan by Army Rangers, supported by Fillipino Guerillas and Alamo Scouts. This book has picked up where &quot;Flags of our Fathers&quot; left off last year, and continues a wildly sucessful run for these authors of patriotic WWII stories.<br />Hampton Sides writes a story that can be universally enjoyed by any reader, whether they be a fan of WWII history or not. Perhaps that was intentional, as being a faithful reader of WWII history I would of liked some statisitical support of enemy forces, such as what vehicles and units were faced, manpower of these units, how this intelligence was gathered, and how they came to be in the Phillipines at this crucial juncture of the Pacific war. While the absence of hard data did not detract from the overall story, it would of certainly enhanced the strategic view of this rescue mission. But that was not the goal of this book. The author instead concentrated on personalities, both from the POW camps, and from the Ranger force command structure and enlisted personnel. He spent considerable time and effort describing the tropical jungle climate and terrain, the depravation the prisoners faced, the uncertainty of a hastily planned mission with untrained Fillipino guerillas (but exceedingly brave and loyal) as support, the isolated camp with no cover anywhere near it, and the excruciatingly slow planned escape with ox-carts pulling those too weak to walk. It all added up to a plan that could end a disastrous failure. And once you start reading this deeply personal and moving story of human bravery and endurance, you simply will not want to put it down.<br />The Death March, and also movement by the &quot;Hellships&quot; to mainland Japan and other work camps is well described. Movement by steel sided boxcars with no ventilation, packed so tightly together that if one died he literally kept standing, is also related. Just imagine parking your car in the sun on a 95 degree day. Turn off the ignition. And then roll the windows up. And sit there. For a more realistic attempt make sure you are suffering from the flu when you do this. Hard to imagine what these people had to endure. I myself am fortunate to live only two blocks from a 83 yr. old survivor of the Bataan Death march, who I finally spoke to on the phone. We now have plans to meet, and I am going to present this fine book to him, and hopefully learn a first hand account of his captivity in Cabantuan (He was later shipped to Bilibid in Manila, and was gone during liberation.)<br />Hampton Sides writes all this from a finely tuned perspective, never waving the Stars and Stripes as he relates these tales of heroism, and not dwelling on the barbarity of the Japanese captors. While this is an excellent story and makes great reading, if you are after more hard facts when you finish this book, read &quot;Prisoners of the Japanese&quot; by Gavan Daws, the definitive account of Allied POW's in the Pacific.is well described. Movement by steel sided boxcars with no ventilation, packed so tightly together that if one died he literally kept standing, is also related. Just imagine parking your car in the sun on a 95 degree day. Turn off the ignition. And then roll the windows up. And sit there. For a more realistic attempt make sure you are suffering from the flu when you do this. Hard to imagine what these people had to endure. I myself am fortunate to live only two blocks from a 83 yr. old survivor of the Bataan Death march, who I finally spoke to on the phone. We now have plans to meet, and I am going to present this fine book to him, and hopefully learn a first hand account of his captivity in Cabantuan (He was later shipped to Bilibid in Manila, and was gone during liberation.)   <br />Hampton Sides writes all this from a finely tuned perspective, never waving the Stars and Stripes as he relates these tales of heroism, and not dwelling on the barbarity of the Japanese captors. While this is an excellent story and makes great reading, if you are after more hard facts when you finish this book, read &quot;Prisoners of the Japanese&quot; by Gavan Daws, the definitive account of Allied POW's in the Pacific.	2001-07-20
US	50694645	RFIVKJ76AROS9	0385420536	626095980	Adolf Hitler: The Definitive Biography	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Thorough, Intimate, Engrossing...	This book by John Toland, a fantastic author, gives an incredible insight into the professional and personal life of Adolf Hitler, moving along fluidly through the considerable breadth of this book, which is over 1000 pages.<br />If you have ever wnated to know what formed the earliest opinions of the greatest despot of the 20th century, then I strongly recommend this book. While not giving the definite answer as to his unreserved hatred of all things Jewish, it clearly and concisely explores his upbringing, his struggle as a teen in Vienna, who spent considerable time in what we today call a homeless shelter. It vividly shows his meglomania, the fractured situation after WWI in Germany, that allowed his rise, and how industrialists and politicians, impressed with his oratory, allowed him to lead this new party called the National Socialists, and in part used him to combat the Bolshevists, who as the Communist Party had considerable strength, and were almost as powerful as the Nazis in the 1920's.<br />This book shows how Hitler considered himself a Christlike figure, and does a superb job of constantly showing the innerworkings of the party, how individuals waged personal struggles for power, and how Hitler was a masterful psychologist, always privately pitting one individual against another. Tolands writing is not only informative but very intimate, and this factor makes this 1000 page read not the least bit ponderous, and he gives brief but very detailed descriptions of all those who were close, or aspired to be close, to Hitler during his rise to power and eventual demise.<br />One reviewer has commented that the book spends little time on WWII.  Fully one quarter of the book deals with this issue of Hitler, which only lasted for the last six years of his life. I especially liked the reading about the intrigue and subterfuge of this band of gangsters who surrounded Hitler, and also how certain men and women of character, notably career military officers and the clergy, were sucked into the vortex of Hitlers magnetic appeal. When considering the destruction and loss of life that one man alone was personally responsible for, it makes one wonder how it was possible to have happened. This book looks at the very foundation of Hitler, and brilliantly explores the answer to that very question.clergy, were sucked into the vortex of Hitlers magnetic appeal. When considering the destruction and loss of life that one man alone was personally responsible for, it makes one wonder how it was possible to have happened. This book looks at the very foundation of Hitler, and brilliantly explores the answer to that very question.	2001-06-20
US	50694645	R35ZYMLH4ERSVN	1885119720	451351344	Foot Soldier: A Combat Infantryman's War in Europe	Books	4	5	8	N	Y	A fine memoir of the Drive to the Rhine	This memoir, the story of Roscoe Blunt, a soldier with the 84th Infantry Divison  (Railsplitters) is a wonderful addition to the growing list of personal narratives of WWII, as more vets age and tell their stories.<br />While less gripping than &quot;The Forgotten Soldier&quot; and &quot;With the Old Breed&quot;, this is, nevertheless, a very gripping and well-written account of his journey into France in a packed steamship, his slog through France, Belgium, and Germany to wars end, and he weaves a story that never seems to drag, as he experienced more close calls, witnessed the results of more destruction, saw firsthand the aftermath of atrocities, and endured enough deprivation and hardship to make this book a real page turner, and one that you will not want to put down.<br />It seems Mr. Blunt was quite a souvenir collector, and he details quite well his affinity for searching out war loot, and even has a picture of a &quot;small&quot; part of his collection, which must be quite impressive, as he admits he had a steady flow of packages going home during the war. He also unflinchingly describes the &quot;sport&quot; of killing, and how he viewed the whole dirty business as almost a game, and I'm certain it helped him keep his sanity. This book ranks alongside Raymond Gantter, and his memoir &quot;Roll Me Over&quot;, both very descriptive and engaging books on the combat experiences of soldiers piercing the Reich.	2001-05-21
US	50694645	R3HR7ONLE0V0CV	0939965186	679511115	Prisoner of the Rising Sun	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	A brief first hand look..........	William Berry has written a well-detailed, although brief, look at his attempted escape and captivity after the fall of Correigdor. While not a scholarly look at these events, the author gives a good account of his capture, escape and trek through the jungle, recapture and liberation by American servicemen from Bilibid prison in Manila. He painfully recounts the agony these men went through as they were crammed, up to 13 men at one time, into a 10 by 10 cell and forced to sit, without flinching, and stare at the wall all day.<br />As a recaptured prisoner, Berry and his two comrades somehow survive the war, as the usual penalty for escape is execution. They were sent to the maximum security prison in Manila for &quot;special prisoners&quot;, and many prisoners stopped here only long enough to be sentenced and shot. Berry, who was a fledgling lawyer before enlisting in the Navy, saw these skills save his life and the lives of his friends when being sentenced, not so much his arguments, of course, but rather how he shaped it to fit his audience  (A Japanese tribunal)<br />This book does not take long to read, but it is an interesting tale, and well worth the time invested. But, if you want greater scope and detail of Americans in Japanese captivity, read  &quot;Prisoners of the Japanese&quot; by Gavan Daws, an extremely informative and well-written look at the horrors these men had to endure daily.	2001-04-18
US	50694645	R24CY20NWOA906	0674962028	51045183	The World within War: America's Combat Experience in World War II	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	A penetrating look at war from those who fight	Linderman has written an extremely informative look at the dynamics of combat, and he leaves nothing out. The reason this author is so successful is he expertly weaves his scholarly approach with an equal amount of first-hand accounts, and the result is a book both deeply personal and unbiased.<br />Judging from the extensive list of references in the Bibliography (which I refered to often, as many of these books I plan on purchasing) Linderman did extensive research, especially reading those books written by the soldiers themselves. The areas this author explores are often overlooked or deliberately avoided by others, and that is what makes this book so refreshing to read. Questions such as &quot;Why him, and not me?&quot;,  the reactions of ones buddies when someone on the line cracks up from battle fatigue, how soldiers dealt with inept officers, (and the brutally honest assessments of some of these green officers themselves),how the art of war in North Africa was a chivalrous display of honor and prisoner exchanges, and how this was radically different from the no-quarter violence of the Pacific,  how the breakdown in discipline at war's end in Europe, and the rumor that those soldiers would be sent to the Pacific, almost caused near riots, and how soldiers reacted to those on the homefront, whether it be the shared pain of a Dear John letter passed among the squad, or the total contempt for the 4-F's that were often healthier than those in combat, or the rounds that didn't fire or grenades that didn't explode because some factory worker decided to stay out too late the night before spending that huge paycheck, this book is startling in it's clarity, and profound in the feelings it can generate, stripping away layers of patriotisim, and exposing this war for what it really was, a violent and thankless job, fought by the young, who fought for their buddies and the sake of getting it over with, and back home to loved ones.<br />My hat is off to all the brave veterans of this war. Well Done.rans of this war. Well Done.	2001-04-17
US	50694645	R2AP8YUJ6CAA2C	0140246967	501983138	Touched with Fire: The Land War in the South Pacific	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A decent overview of the initial stages...	Eric Bergerud has written a concise look at the initial stages of the Pacific campaign, and the Australian contribution is given as much print as the U.S., which is good, as I learned just how important their contribution was, as they certainly were skilled and disciplined fighters, and equal to any U.S. Marines in bravery and tenacity.<br />This book never goes into any detail on any particualr battle of the years it covers, mainly 1942 to late '43, and the author had a tendency to want to skip from one subject to another, and just when my attention was captured completely, it was on to another facet of the jungle campaign.  While certainly an informative read, this is not the front-line, from the soldiers eyes, type of book I had hoped for.  Rather, it covers all details, from logistics, to how units were formed, to to how services interacted, to eventually how the fighting often got up close and personal, and it was the latter of these I had hoped the book would detail.<br />A great read nonetheless, especially for  information on the early stages of the Pacific war. If you want to know how these  men overcame the truly frightening aspects of Pacific combat, with its malarial heat, lack of cover, inhumane conditions, sleep deprivation as the result of the Japanese emphasis on night infiltration, and the suicidal bravery of a cunning enemy, then read &quot;With the Old Breed&quot; by E.B. Sledge.  THE book on Pacific combat.	2001-02-26
US	50694645	RX87Y5P0O9AI3	0395599245	192902317	Tennozan: The Battle of Okinawa and the Atomic Bomb	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	The Sobering Reality that is War....	This book could easily have received a sixth star, and I will try to explain why as best I can.<br /> The campaign to secure Okinawa, the last stepping stone before mainland Japan, is sketchy history when compared to the war raging in Europe, which at this time was already over. Why this struggle has merited less interest is a mystery to me. The author provides a graphic, sobering and extremely detailed explanation of this vicious 82 day battle from both the U.S. and Japanese perspectives, while never losing sight of who suffered most, the Okinawans themselves.<br /> The book begins with a brief history of Okinawa. Unlike the volcanic wasteland of Iwo Jima, Okinawa was a beautiful island paradise populated by a friendly and gracious people, much unlike the fiercely warlike Japanese of this time. These defenders had well over a year to fortify, tunnel, sight-in and prepare for a defensive war of attrition, and were led by Lt. General Mitsuru Ushijima, a patient and brilliant tactician who would not sqaunder his limited resources.<br /> The horrifying reality of this bloodbath is described in great detail, by an unwavering Capt. Tadashi Kojo, a fiercely loyal soldier who somehow is induced to surrender some 8 months after the campaigns end. He related how the 32nd Army was reduced to a rat-like existence in caves, with any movement outside bringing a typhoon of steel in response. It also follows the paths of a couple Marine infantryman for a more personal look at the entire operation.<br /> The Japanese often &quot;tracked&quot; 1st Lieutenants., making their casualty rates staggering. Every trick in the book was employed by a suicidally brave and cunning enemy. Night infiltration kept most from ever getting any real sleep for 3 months. Surrendering Japanese often reached under loincloths to throw grenades. &quot;Corpses&quot; rose from the dead to shoot Marines in the back. And those living in caves often had to be burned out, as surrender was out of the question. Roughly 5% of the defenders survived, and a few of their stories are told here. A fascinating read for anyone interested in the Pacific War. Much like E.B. Sledge described front-line combat, George Feifer has described a campaign with a startling clarity that made me wonder where these fighting men got their strength. The best book yet I have read on any single Pacific battle.oughly 5% of the defenders survived, and a few of their stories are told here. A fascinating read for anyone interested in the Pacific War. Much like E.B. Sledge described front-line combat, George Feifer has described a campaign with a startling clarity that made me wonder where these fighting men got their strength. The best book yet I have read on any single Pacific battle.	2001-01-17
US	50694645	R11EK352T9TX4R	0517424029	841614490	Goodbye Darkness	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Entertaining and somewhat eccentric....	While Manchester writes in a style that is somewhat too lucid to remain focused, and can be downright confusing at times, this author also provides one of the most complete overviews of the entire Pacific island-hopping campaigns.  While by no means comprehensive, he at least touches on the importance (or lack of) of each island, and greatly details the peculiarities of each native population, landing areas, Japanese defensive positions and so on. This book initially begins with the story of his father, who was gravely wounded in &quot;The Great War&quot;, and despite his physical handicap from his wounds, he leads a hardworking and perfectly normal life, and Manchester is unflinching  in his feelings of inadequecy and shortcomings.  He then details his basic training experience, and at the halfway point of the book ships off to the Pacific.  It should be noted that the entire book is written after a return to the scene of so much carnage and slaughter, and he skillfully weaves his memories of then with the realities of today, as he hops from island to island (this time in civilian clothes, with locals as guides) reliving the hell so many brave American Marines had to endure and overcome.<br />  The authors outfit was derisively called &quot;Raggedy Ass Marines&quot;, and was a title soon adopted as their own.  These were not your average front-line Marines, rather these were mainly Officer Candidate washouts, and many had Ivy League degrees, the likes of Colgate, MIT and Yale.  Sadly, many of these men never returned.<br />Once again, I marvel at the endurance, tenacity, and sheer devotion of these Marines to the suicidally brave enemy they faced.  No Marine with a temperature under 103 degrees was allowed &quot;off the line.&quot;  Could you try this policy today? A great read, and definitely recommended.	2001-01-03
US	50694645	RBXY3A5OTR6RQ	0306809583	870273880	The Bunker	Books	5	15	16	N	N	A Fascinating Descent into Madness....	The copy I just finished is the original 1978 hardcover, and James O'Donnell obviously did his homework.  He interviewed nearly every survivng member of the bunker, which is suprisingly almost all of them, most after their return from Russian captivity in 1955, with the exception of three Generals committing suicide, and, of course, Hitler and Eva Braun.<br />  O'Donnell was a Signal Corps captain, and one of the first Americans to enter the bunker in July of 1945.  His sleuth style of research, combined with exhaustive interviews of Hitlers inner circle have allowed him to re-create for the reader almost exactly what happened in the last two weeks of April 1945. All the major players are described in detail, and every personality type is present in this underground fortress, with its gasproof design, cast iron doors and two seperate levels. You will feel the desperation of these committed and loyal Nazis as the ring around Berlin tightens, and their chances for escape dwindle.<br />  O'Donnell covers the most intimate details behind not only the final days, but how each member gained their position of influence, who despised whom, Hitlers manic episodes and his heavy sedation, and the small fish in this pond are not overlooked either, down to the enlisted men who kept the generators running and the switchboard operating, and even these seemingly routine operations were not without interference from some members of the group (For example, Martin Bormann had all calls routed through his phone before Hitler got any calls, and Walter Hewell, one of the more intelligent and rational members of the group, would answer the calls from Foreign Minister Von Ribbentrop, because Von Ribbentrop knew Hitler would not speak with him directly. He did NOT know that Hewell would mock him while Hitler stood shoulder to shoulder, and delighted in this with uproarious laughter.)<br />  The breakout from the bunker is also covered, with the author reviewing the route in detail.  He also describes, from interviewing the survivors, the initial days after capture, and how some fared in Soviet captivity.  A must read for those interested in the fiery end of the worlds most diabolical regime.l.  He also describes, from interviewing the survivors, the initial days after capture, and how some fared in Soviet captivity.  A must read for those interested in the fiery end of the worlds most diabolical regime.	2000-11-17
US	50694645	R477P8SF2S5TN	0887405983	132925304	Scorched Earth: The Russian-German War 1943-1944	Books	5	10	17	N	N	Monumental and incredibly thorough.....	This book one may consider to be the measuring stick against which to judge all other novels on the Eastern Front. Incredibly detailed and researched, I find it hard to believe one man could unearth the details that Carrell did.  How he knew that a Pioneer batallion was able to disarm over 2700 landmines in just over 5 hours before the start of a German offensive I will never know!  Nevertheless, units are discussed with their origins traced to geographic areas of Germany, and many times unit actions are discussed with individual accomplishments, and tragedy, used as a kind of reference point.<br />  The brutal slogs as the battleline shifted West during this year is richly detailed. The author makes no attempt to disguise his Pro-German leanings, but when facing a 6 to 1 disadvantage in manpower, and a 10 to 1 disadvantage in heavy weapons, one cannot help but sympathize with the &quot;underdog&quot;, especially one as fearless and skilled as the Landser fighting a hopeless battle under Godforsaken conditions for a detestable and diabolical regime.<br />This book covers the beginning of the end for the Wermacht in the East. Often, entire Army Groups are surrounded and cut-off, and no detail is left out in describing how these groups struggle to break out. It also contains a wealth of information on the interference of Hitler in the plans laid out by Manstein, the brilliant tactician in charge of this Front. This book is an engrossing history lesson come to life.  Enjoy.	2000-11-02
US	50694645	R2Q7PVUF0GWO9C	0760300127	543670568	Loyalty Is My Honor	Books	4	33	40	N	N	In the words of the veterans themselves...	First of all, I would like to repudiate a claim made by two seperate reviewers.  In one review, the delivery of a child to a Russian woman by a doctor attached to an SS unit was read as an attempt to generate sympathy.  The reviewer failed to mention that the next morning this doctor was found  with his throat slit as his group was ambushed by partisans.<br />  Another  reviewer states that the brevity of this book allows you to read it in an  hour or two. That's nonsense.  At 181 pages, there is no way one can read  this book in a few hours. What makes this book unique from others on this  subject is it is almost exclusively in the words of the SS veterans  themselves. There is not a single page in this book that does not contain  at least one picture, and while this does make for quick reading, it also  gives you a more intimate look at this fighting organization.<br />  The men  who are interviewed and quoted on these pages may very well be suffering  from selective memory.  This is not a book for historical accuracy and  analysis.  Atrocities are rarely even mentioned, and the scope and detail  of individual and unit actions on both fronts is vague.  Yet this book  provided me with a better understanding of the training and mindset of the  average SS soldier, and the pictures accompanying every story is the reason  for the 4th star of this review, as the belabored writing style did little  to capture my attention. But I did gain a much more personal understanding  of the individuals who made up these vaunted units,  and the stories  combined with the pictures make this book worth the price.	2000-08-23
US	50694645	R4JNN27TYCSRO	0700610162	416168373	In Deadly Combat: A German Soldier's Memoir of the Eastern Front (Modern War Studies)	Books	4	17	18	N	Y	Insiders view of the Eastern Front...	This is the story of the 132nd Infantry Division and its trek across the vast expanses of Russia, from the crossing of the Dnieper, to the prolonged  and grim battle for Sevastopol, a once beautiful town on the edge of the  Black Sea, to their eventual retreat  and ultimate surrender in the  Courland Pocket (Which at the time was a term strictly 'verboten' to use,  as this was officially designated the 'Courland Front')<br />  There is a  dearth of first hand reports from the Eastern Front, a testament which only  lends credibility to the extreme brutality of &quot;Barbarossa&quot;.  This  is an excellent personal narrative on this Front, and while the writing  style is a bit stiff at times, there are personal revelations that can only  be told by one who was there.<br />  The author often found himself in  continual fighting, with little or no sleep.  Indeed, the Soviets favored  night fighting, as much for the effect of sleep deprivation as anything  else, and usually at a horrible cost to themselves.  This book is well  detailed when describing unit designations and where and how they fought  together.  While this book can not match the visceral brilliance of  &quot;The Forgotten Soldier&quot;, which is unique in its description of  battelfield hell, it is at times a powerful read, and as the last of the  aging JU-52's leaves the Pocket with the last evacuees, and the soldiers  later learn that 32 of the 35 slow and ungainly transport planes are shot  down in flames with no survivors, one can almost feel the desperation these  men most have felt.  Highly recommended.	2000-08-08
US	50694645	R2DK1IP4DSQDXW	0691008531	279706246	Soldiers of Destruction	Books	4	15	20	N	Y	A Good Look at this Unit...	This is a book that deals almost exclusively with the SSTK, (Which is an acronym for SS, Totenkopf) a unit which was personally molded by Sepp Dietrich, and the result is an interesting, often behind the scenes look of  how this unit had to go to great lengths at its inception to  &quot;acquire&quot; transportation, weapons,  ammunition, and most  importantly, respect as a fighting unit.  Dietrich was a master of  indoctrination, and developed an intense training program for his troops,  often rejecting conscripts and volunteers alike (at the beginning of the  war) as they did not meet his &quot;racial or ideological&quot; standards.  He often used individuals, enlisted and officer, as examples of his  Draconian punishments, and then saw the offending behavior dry up almost  immediately.<br />  While the book does mention a few examples of the crack  Waffen SS fighting spirit on the Eastern Front, and mentions one example of  an atrocity in France in 1940, this book spends most of its time on the  development of the division, and its constant manuvering for supplies and  replacements devasated by battle.  I would not recommend this book to those  looking for specific and vivid examples of SSTK battles and atrocities, as  these have been somewhat glossed over and molded into a comprehensive  overview of the interservice rivalries, development, training and ultimate  retreat and surrender in the Balkans, and there is precious little  information on this units ultimate fate after surrender. (Did any return  from the Gulags?)<br />  But, if the evolution of this crack fighting force  interests you, then this is an absolute must read.	2000-07-11
US	50694645	RAOQNKIU88Q3I	067400163X	797622772	A War To Be Won: Fighting the Second World War	Books	5	11	12	N	N	a comprehensive and thorough analysis.....	&quot;A War to be Won&quot; is a well written and researched novel that offers a complete analysis of both the Pacific and European theaters.  It  offers some refreshingly sharp rebukes of tactical decisions made by  various generals, and from previous readings, I tend to strongly agree with  the authors.  For example, the vain and pretentious Gen. Douglas  MacArthur, who the authors failed to metion was nicknamed &quot;Dugout  Doug&quot; by his frontline troops for his failure to leave his sheltered  underground quarters during the seige of Luzon and Bataan, is given no  quarter. To quote the authors, &quot;When he was good, he was very good,  and when he was bad, he was horrid.&quot; (page 185)  His ill conceived  conquest of Manila, coincided to his 65th birthday, was but a string of  blunders by MacArthur, but his brilliant success also does not go  unnoticed.  The authors also make note of the most productive U.S.  General in Europe, &quot;Old Blood and Guts - (His Guts, our Blood)&quot;  Gen. George Patton.  His hard driving style was really just a variation of  the German &quot;Blitzkrieg&quot;, but highly effective, and unfortunately  not a trait shared by other cautious American Generals.  This is repeatedly  demonstrated by the authors.  It is also interesting to note that the  Author's mention of superior Generalship of the Axis, such as Field Marshal  Manstein and Guderian, to name a few brilliant German tacticians, and  General Yamashita, the &quot;Tiger of Malay&quot; who refused to committ  suicide, as he knew his imminent execution might save his soldiers lives.  He was indeed executed, and it is intersting to note he was much more  concerned with sparing his soldiers blood than MacArthur seemed to be in  the spilling of those under his command.  This book moves along quite  rapidly, and only becomes more engrossing as you get further involved in  the compelling story of a world gone mad.  For a better written and more  personal look at this War, I strongly recommend  &quot;A History of the  Twentieth Century, Vol.Two: 1933-1951&quot;  by Martin Gilbert. It is  superbly written and researched, and is a more personal view of this entire  war, with less emphasis on unit designations and troop counts. At over 900  pages, it is so well written I have read it twice. It also contains over 40  maps,  but I am taking nothing away from &quot;A War to be Won&quot;  Provacative and factual, this novel is a must read for the serious student  and casual reader alike. Highly recommended.at this War, I strongly recommend  &quot;A History of the  Twentieth Century, Vol.Two: 1933-1951&quot;  by Martin Gilbert. It is  superbly written and researched, and is a more personal view of this entire  war, with less emphasis on unit designations and troop counts. At over 900  pages, it is so well written I have read it twice. It also contains over 40  maps,  but I am taking nothing away from &quot;A War to be Won&quot;    Provacative and factual, this novel is a must read for the serious student  and casual reader alike. Highly recommended.	2000-07-05
US	50694645	R2Q3YRV4DTTVQ8	0553111337	243328997	Flags of Our Fathers	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A look behind the famous photo.....	James Bradley, the son of one of the six flagraisers on Mt. Suribachi, has written a beautiful, engrossing, at times painfully intimate look on these men (who he continually refers to as \\"boys\\", which got grating but I understood him to mean these very young 'men') and explores their entire lives, from childhoods, military training, WWII combat and, for half the group, the post-war lives of the flagraisers.<br /><br /> It is truly a  poignant book, and repeatedly made me wonder \\"what if\\" when  considering so many lives that were cut short.  The battle of Iwo Jima was  the bloodiest of the Pacific. It was supposed to take 3 to 4 days. It took  36 days of savage combat against 22,000 crack Japanese soldiers who were  defending what was considered \\"The Homelands\\" for the first time  in the war. They were all dug in, some as deep as seven stories, into the  volcanic earth, and the U.S. Marines landed to fight an unseen enemy.  This  was the only battle of the Pacific that saw Marine casualties outnumber  those of the Japanese. The defenders brought in their best mining  engineers, quarry specialists and labor battalions.  Tunnels connected  everything, and  all had ventilation and most had electricity. They had  multiple entrances to avoid entrapment. One hospital could treat over 400  men, with beds carved into the rock.  A cunning and suicidally brave enemy  awaited the Marines. The training these Marines went through took place on  the Big Island of Hawaii, on a base dubbed \\"Camp Tarawa\\".  They  spent a year getting ready for this battle, which shows the foresight the  Marine leaders had.  The rest of the book details the brutal fighting, and  the post war lives of the surviving Marines. Finally, after reading this, I  now understand why so many of these men just would not talk about their  experiences.  And it was the author's father, a humble man who as a Navy  Corpsman repeatedly risked his life to save wounded Marines, it was his  story indeed that spelled out the silence of these great men.  Ask  yourself, after reading this book, if those of us in the year 2000 could  put it on the line like Americans did in the 1940's.  Better yet, thank a  Veteran that we don't have to.e of these great men.  Ask  yourself, after reading this book, if those of us in the year 2000 could  put it on the line like Americans did in the 1940's.  Better yet, thank a  Veteran that we don't have to.	2000-06-06
US	50694645	R14BRABSL836JO	0767902521	157497316	A Walk in the Woods: Rediscovering America on the Appalachian Trail (Official Guides to the Appalachian Trail)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	My Personal Favorite....	This is the kind of book that you want to give as a gift to everyone you consider close, because it is such a joy to read, and you are certain others will enjoy it just as much. Never have I read a book that was not  only this funny, but that perfectly transposed an excellent history lesson  on the the East Coast, from Georgia to Maine. You will find yourself  laughing from the very beginning, when the author describes the preparation  (or lack of) his buddy Katz, whom he hadn't spoken to for years, and who  was out of work and decided to join him when he caught wind of the upcoming  trek.  They start from the southern most portion, as most  &quot;Thru-Hikers&quot; do (those who do it end to end) and it happens to  be the coldest Feb. day in northern Georgia history, with snow and ice  awaiting their departure, and Katz not wanting to leave the warm lodge and  hot pancakes as he schmoozes with the waitress.  The rest is an  informative, entertaining and laugh out loud journey as Bryson and Katz  discover not only how much work this trudge is going to be, but also  explore the quirks of fellow hikers and the peculiarities of towns that  border the trail, while the author never loses sight of the evolution of  this beautiful area, from the plague which has almost wiped out the mighty  American Chestnut that once covered the land, to a fire in an underground  mine in Pennsylvania that still burns out of control since it started in  the 80's and forced the evacuation of the town, which still has vacant  homes and fire hydrants on empty streets. This book is much more than a  look at the Appalachian Trail. This is a book about America.	2000-05-25
US	50694645	R1AHQVFJ60EE3X	0879517190	660165890	This Is Berlin: Radio Broadcasts from Nazi Germany	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Workmanlike and Dry....	If you are looking for an insiders view at the daily workings of the Nazi Party, look elsewhere. This book just simply does not do justice to the immense writing talents of William Shirer, best known for &quot;The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich&quot;. The main reason this book comes up short  is that it contains actual reports that Shirer filed from September of 1938  till he eventually could no longer tolerate Nazi censorship and left the  country in September of 1940.  Shirer had to tailor his writing style  accordingly, due to the inevitable Nazi censorship, and what we are left  with are uneventful reports that Shirer files from blacked out and  food-rationed Berlin, often relying on newspaper reports from sources as  the &quot;Lokal Anzeiger&quot;, Goebels hand-picked Nazi mouthpiece, which  of course is anything but impartial. While there are many examples of what  day to day life is like for the average German, there is scant information  on the Nazi war machine until well after page 300 of a 423 page book.  This  book has taken me longer to read than almost any other novel of it's size,  and to be honest I would of given up on it, but once the German invasion of  France and the British retreat at Dunkirk began, if only on the strength of  the subject you are left with 100 pages of reading from June to September  of 1940 that certainly improves. There are some notable revelations, like  the brave and tenacious defense of their homeland by the Belgians, which  won the public admiration of the Nazis and even compelled Hitler to make  mention of it to King Leopold, who wisely capitulated rather than see  Brussels bombed into another Warsaw.  But overall, it's a novel that reads  like a dated High School history book, and due to its nature as actual  dispatches from the time, it is hard to place any blame on the author.	2000-04-24
US	50694645	R2IIM9O1XASK8J	0195067142	78132355	With the Old Breed: At Peleliu and Okinawa	Books	5	10	12	N	N	The best account of Hell on Earth...	E.B. Sledge has written a first hand account of the island hopping campaign against Japan with the flair of a historian and the brutal reality of one who was there. This theater differed so much from the battle against  Germany, and Sledge does a wonderful job of relating the hellish aspects of  these battles, while showing the day to day operations of Marines against  not only a fierce and deadly-cunning enemy, but also how the tropics, with  it's intense heat, disease and lack of cover contributed considerable  casualties themselves. This book graphically recalls the almost inhumane  suffering of the Marines against a completely committed and suicidal enemy,  and the enormous sacrifices these men had to make, without ever once  straying into a patriotic and flag waving history lesson. His descriptions  are vivid and unforgettable, such as when he trudged up a hill and saw what  remained of a dead Japanese machine-gunner. &quot;He sat bolt upright in  the firing position behind the breech of his machine gun. Even in death his  eyes stared widely along the gun sights. Despite the vacant look of his  dilated pupils, I couldn't believe he was dead. Cold chills ran along my  spine. Gooseflesh tickled my back. It seemed as though he was looking  through me to all eternity, that at any instant he would raise his hands,  which rested in a relaxed manner on his thighs, grip the handles on the  breech, and press the thumb trigger. But he would rot, and the brass slugs  would corrode. Neither he nor his ammo could do any more for the  emporer.&quot; This is but one of many excellent descriptions of  battlefield hell.  Maggot covered corpses bloating in the sun, hand to hand  fighting with special night infiltration squads, even a column of soldiers  who charge at port arms across 300 yards of open field in a suicidal  display of bravery, it's all here.  This book will not disappoint.	2000-02-13
US	50694645	R3BDMJ66U92SHL	0140284583	436220225	Stalingrad: The Fateful Siege: 1942-1943	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A Fantastic Book!	This is, quite simply, one of the finest accounts by a historian to convey the personal hell, the Dante's Inferno of Stalingrad, and is the most vivid and chilling I have ever read. The author describes the horiffic conditions faced by both the Russians and the 6th Army, and this book occupied my thoughts for weeks  afterwards like no other book has ever done. Mr. Beevor is masterful in his  description, weaving facts with personal accounts that puts the reader in  the trenches. His access to previously closed Russian files on this brutal  battle has allowed the author to write the finest story ever on Stalingrad.  His story on Winrich Behr (who by the way is still alive today) I have  found to be as unforgettable as the rest of the book. He vividly describes  how the desperate situation has convinced the top leadership in encircled  Stalingrad to fly out Capt. Behr, proud in his black SS Panzer uniform with  Knights Cross. Behr is flown to see Hitler, to explain how a breakout from  the Kessel must proceed immediately.  Behr is warned on how Hitler tries to  overwhelm his guests with the \\"overall\\" picture, and how his vast  knowledge leaves little room for compromise.  Behr is prepared when Hitler  steps to the map, and shocked when Hitler quits talking and is attentive  while Behr further protests the utter hopelessness of fighting on.  Field  Marshall Keitel, Hitlers sycophantic lackey, angrily shakes his fist at  Behr when Hitler looks away, and then Hitler returns to the map, and  produces phantom divisions to rescue the trapped 6th Army. It is then when  Behr realizes the war is over.  The only other book that compares to this  in the horrors of battle is \\"The Forgotten Soldier\\" the story on  a soldier in the Das Reich SS division who sees destrucion and death on the  Eastern front, but this autobiography is not nearly as well written.  I  have read this book twice, and will enjoy it many more times.  Superb.	2000-02-10
US	50694645	RIPNV1JVSGNI3	1558216847	782333026	The Long Walk: The True Story of a Trek to Freedom	Books	3	9	20	N	N	A good yarn...	This book starts with crisp, vivid detail and the author gives a startling view of Soviet imprisonment and a fascinating account of his 3 week train ride to a gulag. But after a brief period of confinement, the escape takes  on something of a familiar pattern which stretches the limits of  credibility.  While still a good book, I ask you, even when pushed to your  absoulute limits, if you could walk across Siberia in the winter, the Gobi  desert in the Summer, and climb the Himalya's in the winter, all while  being ill-equipped and averaging 30 miles a day for 4000 miles.  No way.  Everyone truly wants to beleive what is simply an unbelievable tale.  And  then to throw in a sighting of the Yeti, I think 'ole Slavomir is laughing  all the way to the bank.	2000-02-08
US	50694645	R2H0CWHAJAX0TE	0385044518	260143252	A Stillness at Appomattox (Army of the Potomac, Vol. 3)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Brilliant Classic you'll never forget	Quite simply, this is the best retelling ever written on the U.S. Civil War. No other author has been able to mesh the savagery of battle with the tedium of forced marches on wet, muddy roads. While chronicling only the  final year of the war, Catton brilliantly explores the Confederacy in its  futile attempt at a last stand in Virginia. He vividly describes the march  of the Northern juggernaut as it rolls towards a bloody victory, while  never losing sight of the personal, individual struggles taking place,  blending it all together and even finding room for a lighthearted moment or  two, such as when a group of Union soldiers were startled one night by a  Rebel soldier, probably in his 50's, who walked through a swamp, cursing  all the way, sat down at their fire and proceeded to rant about the  ignorance of the Confederacy while his false teeth kept falling out, all to  the uproarious laughter of his new found captors.  This is masterful  writing, and deservedly won the Pulitzer Prize for non-fiction.  A very  special book, and an American literary treasure.	2000-01-27
US	50694645	R12FYT3SXXRP89	0688143709	43563172	Prisoners of the Japanese: POWs of World War II in the Pacific	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Shocking....	I knew that P.O.W.'s in the Pacific Theatre endured much greater privations and tyranny from their captors, but I had no idea of the level of depravity of the Japanese until I read this book. Engrossing, vivid and  well-written, this book will give you a sense of the horrors these  prisoners suffered from a captor who took a twisted sense of pleasure in  making these Americans, Australians and Brits suffer. Also included are  some examples of supreme courage and sacrifice (Such as when the ranking  P.O.W. grabs the whip of a camp guard and requests HE receive the lashes  rather than the prisoner being beaten) and also graphically explores the  terror meted out to these unfortunate and very brave souls. I was  absoulutely sickened to think that this type of behavior was expressly  encouraged by the sadistic Japanese military. This book also explores the  aftermath of the war, and the trials of the hundreds of Japanese captured  and tried for their crimes. This book is fascinating even for those without  a military perspective. I recently read this book, and when I particularly  like a book it is soon read again. This book is definitely in that  category.	1999-12-28
US	50694645	R1EMOLMBJIXOVS	0688100651	787653953	A History of the Twentieth Century, Volume II: 1933-1951	Books	5	6	6	N	N	If you truly appreciate good writing...	Then you must buy this book!  I have read extensively on WWII, and this book is the most complete and definitive I have read to date. Martin does a masterful job of presenting the facts in a personal way, without getting  bogged down in dry detail. He does an excellent job of putting a name and a  face beside his content. The research was absoulutely exhaustive, and the  manner in which he uses names instead of just numbers and cold statistics  is superb. The overall picture of a world gone mad is tightly woven into  individual experiences, and the result is a comprehensive overview that  shows the incredible sacrifices of so many. Being English, the author does  tend to Lionize Churchill, but his contributions to the war may be largely  unknown to many. He was indeed a man of great foresight, and accurately  predicted what so many politicians in the U.K. either were unwilling to  admit, or simply failed to comprehend. This book is a must read for any  WWII historian.	1999-12-28
US	50694645	R2LM46XJBA85ZT	0811719219	318911260	War to the Knife: Bleeding Kansas, 1854-1861	Books	4	15	19	N	N	A bloody period well-described..	It was just a coincidence that shortly after reading the book I met the author at a civil war reenactment. This book is mainly constructed through letters and diaries from the period, and little is left to the imagination  as the author chillingly describes the savagery of this particular time. An  excellent read for those interested in Civil War history, and to hear a  knock at the door in the middle of the night, being asked if you are  &quot;Pro-slavery or a Jayhawker&quot;, and knowing that a wrong answer  would probably mean death is harrowing just thinking about it.	1999-12-26
US	50694645	R3QM4EWTKXVOLB	0375502025	190088526	The Greatest Generation	Books	1	7	17	N	N	I agree with the title, but..........	I simply cannot understand why everyone is gushing praise on such a poorly written piece of patriotic blather. Is it that you can readily identify with the author when you plop down on the couch to watch the Nightly News?  The rambling, disconnected content of this book left me wanting a refund. I  am a proud American, and one who has studied this period of time quite  extensively, and this definitely WAS the Greatest Generation indeed!  This  book, I fear, is going to lead to a host of copycat writings by those who  will use their celebrity exposure to command a princely sum for a  cliche-ridden hack job of a novel. Enough already!	1999-12-26
US	50694645	R2GOOWNVI6E3M0	0080374379	329455826	The Forgotten Soldier: The Classic WWII Autobiography (Brassey's Commemorative Series WWII)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Like a kick in the gut.........	Often, in books on WWII, a central character will rise above the odds and, with one heroic sweep of the hand, slay the enemy and carry the day.  Throw that nonsense out the window with &quot;The Forgotten Soldier&quot;. This  book brought home the reality of war unlike any book I have ever read. It  was completely read by myself in 5 days, at work, before work and wherever  possible. When describing the brutal reality of the Eastern Front is  somewhat like passing by a fatal accident, you know you shouldn't slow down  to gawk but you do anyway.  This book will make anyone fear war. If you  read about WWII, and have not read this book, then your circle is  definitely incomplete.	1999-11-29
