US	50698858	RKVNZVHZ67KRM	0521592364	892759168	In Defense of Pure Reason: A Rationalist Account of A Priori Justification (Cambridge Studies in Philosophy)	Books	4	8	9	N	Y	formidable defense of rationalism.	The rationalist position, essentially that knowledge is possible purely on the basis of thinking, would never have required much defense a few hundred years ago. It had always been taken for granted that knowledge could be given a priori justification, without appeal to sensory perception. The anti-rationalist position is a difficult one: indeed, it seems that any meaningful denial of this claim would itself be a priori. Yet this fact has not dissuaded countless intellectuals from either severely disarming a priori justification or rejecting it outright. So, in my view the primary strength of BonJour's work here is to show that all rejections of synthetic a priori justification implicitly depend on synthetic a priori arguments themselves. This is apparent in BonJour's challenges to moderate empiricism, linguistic analysis, and the radical repudiation of apriorism by Professor Quine and his followers. The defensive aspect of this book demonstrates that a rejection of a priori reasoning results in a rejection of reason itself, a position that is untenable if not an outright performative contradiction. Some critics will ultimately latch on to the argument that appeals to a priori justification are ultimately question-begging. I do not find this view plausible, since such objections are also principally a priori in nature.<br /><br />BonJour's critique of Kant's epistemology, showing him to be closer to empiricism than rationalism, is pretty much on the mark, because Kant's theory of knowledge applies only to one's own subjective categories and not reality in sich. (I believe a constructivist defense of Kant's philosophy can be made, but it requires that a bridge be made between the mind and external reality, something not established by Kant himself.) He also spends considerable time withering away at the all too prevalently held view of the symbolic conception of thought, which in my view is one of the more powerful arguments against the a priori. His argument, in a nutshell, is that the symbolic conception of thought renders thoughts internally inaccessible, and any metaphysical theory which does so must be untenable.<br /><br />Ultimately, BonJour's thesis is that a priori justification is fallible, but undeniably possible. BonJour feels secure with the position of moderate rationalism he has a adopted, although I believe this conception of reason is a bit weaker than he does, simply because, on my interpretation, BonJour requires less certainty than I would deem necessary to justify a given proposition a priori. A priori justification requires axioms, without it is clearly weaker than it would be otherwise. In his moderate view, there is also the possibility of empirical data refuting a priori justification, and I cannot accept this. If empirical information really \\"refutes\\" a priori justification (which I am not convinced is possible), then I would definitely refrain from calling the a priori argument truly _justified_. Furthermore, I think BonJour misses an essential part of a priori justification-that it logically precedes all empirical knowledge. Yet this takes little away from the essence of BonJour's position, which I would accept.<br /><br />Bear in mind I am most certainly an extreme rationalist, albeit not quite the kind Mr. BonJour has in mind when he discusses the \\"extreme\\" rationalist in his book. Therefore, I may sound more critical than I would prefer. Regardless of my own criticism, this is an excellent, fair, and highly-welcome defense of the most maligned source of knowledge in our time.utshell, is that the symbolic conception of thought renders thoughts internally inaccessible, and any metaphysical theory which does so must be untenable.<br /><br />Ultimately, BonJour's thesis is that a priori justification is fallible, but undeniably possible. BonJour feels secure with the position of moderate rationalism he has a adopted, although I believe this conception of reason is a bit weaker than he does, simply because, on my interpretation, BonJour requires less certainty than I would deem necessary to justify a given proposition a priori. A priori justification requires axioms, without it is clearly weaker than it would be otherwise. In his moderate view, there is also the possibility of empirical data refuting a priori justification, and I cannot accept this. If empirical information really \\"refutes\\" a priori justification (which I am not convinced is possible), then I would definitely refrain from calling the a priori argument truly _justified_. Furthermore, I think BonJour misses an essential part of a priori justification-that it logically precedes all empirical knowledge. Yet this takes little away from the essence of BonJour's position, which I would accept.<br /><br />Bear in mind I am most certainly an extreme rationalist, albeit not quite the kind Mr. BonJour has in mind when he discusses the \\"extreme\\" rationalist in his book. Therefore, I may sound more critical than I would prefer. Regardless of my own criticism, this is an excellent, fair, and highly-welcome defense of the most maligned source of knowledge in our time.	2005-09-11
US	50698858	RQK6Q7E91LYCC	0875481124	187282436	Reason & Analysis (Paul Carus Lectures)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	rationalism versus analytic philosophy.	And rationalism wins.<br /><br />Rationalism has endured a storm of sustained attacks throughout the twentieth century. The faculty of reason, which Blanshard calls the function of grasping necessary connections, is met by skeptics at every turn - men who deny the nature and use of reason and would severely limit the scope of its application. Amidst these attacks, rationalism has of course had its defenders, as woefully few as they were. Brand Blanshard was one of the most lucid defenders of reason in recent times, and this volume is one of the most powerful defenses of reason as a source of genuine knowledge about the nature of things. (the other volumes in the trilogy, _Reason and Belief_ and _Reason and Goodness_, are also excellent and worth hunting down.)<br /><br />Blanshard's book unfolds much like a story, covering the cornerstones of Western philosophy's history. He examines the role of reason in western thought and describes the key intellectual events that gave rise to its nemesis, philosophy of analysis (linguistic analysis and logical positivism). This is the framework under which he carries out his defense of reason. After an informative dose of philosophical history, he turns to his critique. Chapters are devoted to logical atomism (the theory that the universe is comprised of particular facts not bound by necessity), the verifiability theory of meaning (the cornerstone of positivism, averring that to ascertain any fact we must appeal to our senses), the positivist account of a priori knowledge (it is analytic; knowledge about own concepts but not things), and early and later forms of linguistic analysis (looking to language to solve philosophical problems). His exposition of his opponents' philosophies is very generous and thorough, careful to understand that which he seeks to unravel. In fact, his thoroughness might be called \\"overkill\\" - there is hardly a point on which these anti-rationalist philosophy's are unchallenged. Wittgenstein, Russel, Ayer, Ryle, and numerous other key figures in analytic philosophy are demolished at every turn. Yet, Blanshard's fastidious demolition of their philosophies is carried out with utmost tact and intellectual generosity. Truthfully, logical positivism does not seem to require the attention Brand Blanshard gives to it. Rationalism is vindicated merely by asking what sort of proposition is the central positivist thesis: that all meaningful statements are analytic or empirical, but never both. One is invited to ask, of course, what sort of statement is this thesis? Clearly it is not analytic -- it obviously purports to be more than simple explication of our own concepts and words. Yet it is not empirical, at least not in the sense that its validity can be apprehended by our senses. Thus, it must be synthetic a priori, yet on the positivist's own terms this renders their thesis meaningless. This is a grave philosophical error. Despite the wanton overkill, if you savor poignant intellectual argument, Blanshard is among the best and his work is a pleasure to read. His criticisms, where not essential to the destruction of his opponents' position, is brimming with important insights.<br /><br />With the fortresses of analytic philosophy razed, Blanshard sets out a positive case for reason. He explicates rationalist accounts of formal logic, arithmetic, and geometry, and puts forth an original and compelling theory of universals (that only specific universals exist, but not generic or quantitative universals).Ayer, Ryle, and numerous other key figures in analytic philosophy are demolished at every turn. Yet, Blanshard's fastidious demolition of their philosophies is carried out with utmost tact and intellectual generosity. Truthfully, logical positivism does not seem to require the attention Brand Blanshard gives to it. Rationalism is vindicated merely by asking what sort of proposition is the central positivist thesis: that all meaningful statements are analytic or empirical, but never both. One is invited to ask, of course, what sort of statement is this thesis? Clearly it is not analytic -- it obviously purports to be more than simple explication of our own concepts and words. Yet it is not empirical, at least not in the sense that its validity can be apprehended by our senses. Thus, it must be synthetic a priori, yet on the positivist's own terms this renders their thesis meaningless. This is a grave philosophical error. Despite the wanton overkill, if you savor poignant intellectual argument, Blanshard is among the best and his work is a pleasure to read. His criticisms, where not essential to the destruction of his opponents' position, is brimming with important insights. <br />  <br />With the fortresses of analytic philosophy razed, Blanshard sets out a positive case for reason. He explicates rationalist accounts of formal logic, arithmetic, and geometry, and puts forth an original and compelling theory of universals (that only specific universals exist, but not generic or quantitative universals).  <br />	2005-05-30
US	50698858	RJ5M4C2WMNCZ6	0521657296	301591247	Critique of Pure Reason (The Cambridge Edition of the Works of Immanuel Kant)	Books	4	6	10	N	N	important.	One cannot help but admire what Kant tried to do with his _Critique of Pure Reason_. Indeed, it is one of the most provocative and important ventures in the history of intellectual inquiry. Kant was something of a middle-of-the-roader between rationalism and classical empiricism, and while his treatment of reason is vital, he ultimately treated reason with skepticism as to what it could tell us about the real world.<br /><br />Kant's objective was to show how synthetic a priori propositions were possible. To summarize quickly, Kant categorized propositions in the following way: they could be either synthetic or analytic, and they could be a priori or a posteriori. A proposition is analytic if logic alone can inform us as to its truth -- otherwise it is synthetic. If observation is required to inform us as to the truth or falsehood of a proposition, then it is a posteriori. If we can apprehend the truth of the matter merely by thinking, independent of experience, then it is a priori.<br /><br />All bachelors are unmarried men is a typical example of an analytic proposition. This is merely a convention of our own speech and thought. But how could synthetic a priori be possible? Kant began with the multiplication tables. There was nothing he was more certain of than the truth of mathematics. Geometry too was a regarded as typical of rational knowledge. Kant asked, how is it that we could have such certain knowledge? His answer was deduction from self-evident axioms, discoverable through reflection. Kant's way of accounting for the necessary truth of such propositions was that our mind imposes its structures upon reality, rather than the other way around (a sharp contrast to the view of traditional rationalists). Yet while Kant believed such knowledge to be necessary, it is also necessarily \\"idealistic\\" and leads to skepticism. After all, if we assume that all of our necessary reasoning about mathematics, time, space, causality, et cetera, is compelled merely by the framework of our mind, then we seem despairingly separated from the way things actually are. In short: reason does not reveal to us necessary connections in reality; those mental categories are merely our own creations and we cannot know that they fit reality.<br /><br />Despite being often lumped in with the rationalists, I would say that this view definitely puts Kant closer to the empiricism than anything else. His epistemology seemed unable to span the mental and the real.<br /><br />I came to philosophy through economics. Not the economics of empiricist methodology, but that of praxeology -- the logic of action, an a priori science. The greatest economist of the 20th century, Ludwig von Mises, was epistemologically very close to Kant. The study of Kant's epistemology has been very important for me, and  I regard Mises' own contributions to epistemology as resolving Kant's difficulties. Mises, realizing that knowledge is a category of action, understood that it is through action that the mind interacts with reality. Kant himself seems to have come close to realizing this. After all, he thought mathematics was based on our knowledge of repetitive operations, and that causality is understood by understanding what it means to act.<br /><br />My interpretations may not be strictly correct. But hopefully I have dome something to convey the importance of this book. Your mileage may vary, but whatever you take from the _Critique of Pure Reason_, grappling with its arguments is an important step in resolving the problems of knowledge.nd, then we seem despairingly separated from the way things actually are. In short: reason does not reveal to us necessary connections in reality; those mental categories are merely our own creations and we cannot know that they fit reality.    Despite being often lumped in with the rationalists, I would say that this view definitely puts Kant closer to the empiricism than anything else. His epistemology seemed unable to span the mental and the real.     I came to philosophy through economics. Not the economics of empiricist methodology, but that of praxeology -- the logic of action, an a priori science. The greatest economist of the 20th century, Ludwig von Mises, was epistemologically very close to Kant. The study of Kant's epistemology has been very important for me, and  I regard Mises' own contributions to epistemology as resolving Kant's difficulties. Mises, realizing that knowledge is a category of action, understood that it is through action that the mind interacts with reality. Kant himself seems to have come close to realizing this. After all, he thought mathematics was based on our knowledge of repetitive operations, and that causality is understood by understanding what it means to act.    My interpretations may not be strictly correct. But hopefully I have dome something to convey the importance of this book. Your mileage may vary, but whatever you take from the _Critique of Pure Reason_, grappling with its arguments is an important step in resolving the problems of knowledge.	2005-05-13
US	50698858	R2R3DYTVWMZ7EC	3161462343	438017659	Logik der Forschung	Books	2	0	6	N	N	another positivist failure.	I never understood why Karl Popper had achieved such respect among scholars. I can certainly appreciate his criticism of the empiricist verifiability theory of meaning. The logical positivists had sought to bring science and philosophy into a cohesive discipline -- certainly a respectable goal. Yet by 1935, the verifiability criterion was dogged by powerful criticism. Popper himself was aware of these problems. Popper wisely observes that \\"the radical positivist would destroy not only metaphysics, but also natural science.\\" For instance, scientific laws are not a composite of all observed cases. They are generalizations that hold for _all_ cases, observed and unobserved, whether taking place now, or in the past, or in the future. But such a law, like the law of gravity, is on the positivist's own ground unverifiable and therefore meaningless. For the positivist, with his esteem for science, this was damning.<br /><br />The verifiability theory was in trouble. Popper's solution, however, is hardly adequate. He knew that universal statements of scientific law were meaningful even though they could not be verified. Thus he proposed that it was not verifiability that determined meaningfulness, but _falsifiability_. If we say \\"All roses are red,\\" this would be meaningful, because it is falsifiable by the experience of finding a rose colored differently. However, the asymmetry between verifiability and falsifiability completely unravels Popper's case. You could _never_ falsify a logically particular statement (like \\"Some ravens are black\\"), because such would require a universal negative (\\"No ravens are black\\") -- a proposition that could never be proven on empiricist terms. On Popper's own terms, \\"Some ravens are black\\" would be a meaningless statement. This can hardly be what he anticipated.<br /><br />Hopefully this whole empiricist zeitgeist will die off. It irks me bad.	2005-05-12
US	50698858	RM7HDE5G09QDZ	0486200108	256812943	Language, Truth and Logic (Dover Books on Western Philosophy)	Books	4	1	5	N	N	lean, mean defense of empiricism.	While I believe empiricism is a self-contradictory, hollow theory, at some point one may wish to study it for one reason or another. While not as well represented as it once was, its influence is widespread in philosophy and science (for example, most contemporary economists mistakenly believe that truths are ascertained by well-established empirical laws). Any scholar or student should start here. Ayer's classic book is a (very) lucid and concise exposition of the empiricist thesis, and it defends all its central tenets while attacking rationalist apriorism in just 150 pages or so. In this volume, Ayer's explains the systematic basis of empiricism is the assumption that all knowledge about reality must be verifiable by the five senses - nothing is known a priori about reality and so all knowledge is necessarily hypothetical in nature (as anything known by experience could have been different). All validity-claiming propositions must be empirical or analytic, never both (so a priori true statements are merely true by definition and can never be synthetic. Ethical propositions, because they are neither analytic or empirical, are merely expressions of emotions and have no factual content.<br /><br />I give empiricism zero stars but this book deserves four in terms of its scholarly value.	2005-04-20
US	50698858	R3HFUFL8FOW9UT	0299158144	928860576	The Rhetoric of Economics (Rhetoric of the Human Sciences)	Books	1	17	52	N	N	relativism reborn...yet again.	The \\"hermeneutics\\" of thinkers like McClosky, Rorty, and even some of those 'austrian' economists over at GMU is certainly not a new creed. It is the age-old song of the German historicist school and epistemological relativism. Okay, so it has a new coat of paint, updated with a few contemporary insights. McClosky targets economics with hermeneutic \\"propositions\\", seeking to unravel the modern methodological basis for the science (positivism/empiricism) and propose a new criterion to judging economic propositions (or any proposition whatsoever).<br /><br />To McClosky, truth and falsehood are irrelevant categories -- what matters is only whether or not something is persuasive. Thus, rhetoric claims prime importance. Consider this telling excerpt from the book: \\"The very idea of Truth--with a capital T, something beyond what is merely persuasive to all concerned--is a fifth wheel. . . . If we decided that the qualitity theory of money or the marginal productivity theory of distribution is persuasive, interesting, useful, reasonable, appealing, acceptable, we do not need to know that it is True (p. 47).\\" Or, in comparing economic science to literary criticism, McClosky writes: \\"[Rhetoric] believes that science advances by healthy conversation, not adherenence to a methodology. . . . Life is not so easy that an economist can be made better at what he does merely by reading a book (p. 174).\\"<br /><br />Surely, to anyone except those with a Ph.D. in philosophy, this must strike one as totally counterintuitive and absurd. Are we really ready to concede that there is no objective truth? All right -- let us do so, for the sake of argument.<br /><br />But then we must of course inquire into the status of McClosky's own propositions. It is simply contradictory to make validity-claiming proposition averring that validity-claiming propositions cannot exist. Furthermore, such a claim implies a performative contradiction, as any argument presupposes the proponent's understanding of the meaning of truth and falsehood simply in order to say \\"I propose such and such, and you can either agree or prove me wrong.\\" A proposition gains axiomatic status if it must be presupposed in the course of refutation. Argumentation has such axiomatic status. It is nothing but nonsense to argue that you cannot argue.<br /><br />In fact, McClosky and other hermeneuticians are _so_ wrong that they can only say what they say _because_ it is wrong. For to them, there is no objective truth criterion for any proposition whatsoever. And yet, the use of language itself is a form of action, and surely there is a difference between McClosky's pronouncements and, say, the clacking of buttons on the keyboard as he writes it out (well, she was a he when this book was originally written and published, back when i read it -- i really don't know what pronoun to use). The most elementary tools of logic, like junctors and quantors, and the Laws of Identity and Contradiction, have their roots in action. these laws could never be undone by anyone, for in order to deny that they are in fact laws of reality, one would have to presuppose their validity. Accounting for the structure of elementary logical propositions (like \\"Hamburgers are a food\\") is the fact that in each and every action, a person must identify a situation and categorize it one way or another if choice is to be possible. Thus, while one could certainly say \\"and\\" means something other than \\"and\\", one could not deny its realist praxeological-ontological meaning, rooted in reality and action, without stumbling headlong into contradiction. Thus, at the _very least_, the existence of language presupposes the existence of truth categories and this could never be denied by anyone using language. Evidently, then, some common ground exists for people. McClosky's entire position is full of hot air.<br /><br />Of course, McClosky levels many challenges to scientific orthodoxy of empiricism in the social sciences. All well and good -- empiricism is an empty doctrine, completely inadequate as a methodological basis for economics. But McClosky has simply chosen the wrong target. Empiricism claims that all a priori knowledge is merely analytic (in fact, it is doubted if analytical propositions qualify as knowledge at all). All facts of reality must be observable, and all truth-claims must be verifiable (or are least falsifiable) by experience. With this approach, an economist would be left willy-nilly unable to _know_ anything, since they must concede that experience could have yielded a different result. But if McClosky's purpose was to attack the foundations of objective truth in economic science, why choose empiricism? would it not have been more prudent to target the extremist-rationalist thinkers such as Ludwig von Mises or Murray Rothbard? Such proponents of economics as a realistic science of a priori laws whose validity is not contingent on experience, would seem to be the antithesis of the hermeneutics position. The irony of it all is that McClosky's own methodological position is impotent to take down empiricism, much less rationalism which goes essentially unchallenged.<br /><br />The refutation of hermeneutics vindicates rationalism, leaving us with no choice but to regard hermeneutics at a vacuous doctrine. This is a book of less-than-zero scientific value. If you are looking for good writings on rationalist economic science, see Ludwig von Mises, _Human Action_; idem, _Epistemological Problems of Economics_; Murray Rothbard, _Man, Economy, and State with Power and Market_; Hans-Hermann Hoppe, _Economic Science and the Austrian Method_. This book should not be taken seriously, but laughed and ridiculed as contradictory garbage.ood -- empiricism is an empty doctrine, completely inadequate as a methodological basis for economics. But McClosky has simply chosen the wrong target. Empiricism claims that all a priori knowledge is merely analytic (in fact, it is doubted if analytical propositions qualify as knowledge at all). All facts of reality must be observable, and all truth-claims must be verifiable (or are least falsifiable) by experience. With this approach, an economist would be left willy-nilly unable to _know_ anything, since they must concede that experience could have yielded a different result. But if McClosky's purpose was to attack the foundations of objective truth in economic science, why choose empiricism? would it not have been more prudent to target the extremist-rationalist thinkers such as Ludwig von Mises or Murray Rothbard? Such proponents of economics as a realistic science of a priori laws whose validity is not contingent on experience, would seem to be the antithesis of the hermeneutics position. The irony of it all is that McClosky's own methodological position is impotent to take down empiricism, much less rationalism which goes essentially unchallenged.<br /><br />The refutation of hermeneutics vindicates rationalism, leaving us with no choice but to regard hermeneutics at a vacuous doctrine. This is a book of less-than-zero scientific value. If you are looking for good writings on rationalist economic science, see Ludwig von Mises, _Human Action_; idem, _Epistemological Problems of Economics_; Murray Rothbard, _Man, Economy, and State with Power and Market_; Hans-Hermann Hoppe, _Economic Science and the Austrian Method_. This book should not be taken seriously, but laughed and ridiculed as contradictory garbage.	2005-04-12
US	50698858	R3VFB11DZ1KKOI	0945466307	640921190	Man, Economy, and State with Power and Market, Scholar's Edition	Books	5	19	23	N	Y	Austrian Economics.	Murray Rothbard's contribution to economic science cannot be overstated. Following the footsteps of Mises' _Human Action_, Rothbard's own treatise leaves no economic question untouched. _Man, Economy and State_ presents the entire corpus of economic law, deduced logically from the undeniable fact of human choice. Because of the Austrian methodology, Rothbard was a system-building rationalist, and so this book has little resemblance to mainstream economics. As a praxeologist, Rothbard builds economics not on models or mathematics, but using primordial logical principles to explore the formal implications of purposeful human behavior. Rothbard not only presented Austrian economics in a systematic, complete way -- he also advanced it considerably. Some examples of his contributions to the hardcore of Austrian economics: he refined the theory of utility, he greatly elaborated and developed theories of production, (although I believe his theory of interest was incorrect), reconstructed the approach to welfare-economics, demolished the illusory free-market monopoly problem, etc. Also crucial to his economic theory was his indepth exploration of violent intervention in the free market. That volume, _Power and Market_, is included here (as it was originally intended). Here, Rothbard drives the final nail in the coffin for virtually any argument that the government do anything positive for the economy. He also recognized that economic and ethical problems have the same, fundamental root: scarcity, without which neither discipline would be at all meaningful. This connection was critical for Rothbard as he developed his political philosophy, which was systematically presented later in _The Ethics of Liberty_ (1982). Considering Rothbard completed this treatise when he was only 36, his level of scholarship is nothing short of incredible. His footnotes are full of treasures.<br /><br />This is truly one of the most important works of economic theory ever written. Indeed, it covers _everything_, and Rothbard's clear, tempered prose is unrivaled in either philosophy or economics. Anyone who is alive should read this book. If you're dead and you can read, well...that's amazing, but still the book won't be much used to you.vers _everything_, and Rothbard's clear, tempered prose is unrivaled in either philosophy or economics. Anyone who is alive should read this book. If you're dead and you can read, well...that's amazing, but still the book won't be much used to you. <br />	2005-03-10
US	50698858	R3GPHL4X3HA4KC	0945466242	347077241	Human Action Scholars Edition	Books	5	96	109	N	N	monumental.	There is no way I can say all that I want to say in this review. Murray Rothbard has aptly said: \\"Every once in a while the human race pauses in the job of botching its affairs and redeems itself by producing a noble work of the intellect. . . . To state that _Human Action_ is a `must' book is a greater understatement. This is the economic Bible of the civilized man.\\"<br />I would take Rothbard's praise further. This is not only the single most important economic tome ever, but also the most pathbreaking, definitive exposition of praxeology, the correct basis for social sciences and also necessarily the foundation for epistemology. Only a few living economists of the \\"Austrian\\" school of economics seem to have truly absorbed the true praxeological methodology forged by Mises.<br />Mises' contribution to economics cannot be understated. In basing economics on the axiomatic status of action, Mises established the ultimate foundation for economic science. The fact that humans act -- that is, human beings *act* purposively to reach subjectively chosen ends -- is, of course, irrefutable (to argue against the axiom of action is itself an action). This, however, may seem like a trivial observation. Humans act, big deal? Why is it so important? Its importance is in praxeological economics' methodology deductive chains of reasoning to realize the implications. In understanding what is implied by action - values, ends, means, choice, cost, preference, profit, and loss - economic science can be deduced logically, so it is a purely an a priori science where economic laws tell describe apodictically true relationships in the real world. In this way, key economic principles follow from the action axiom (as well as a few general, explicit assumptions about the empirical reality in which the action occurs), such as the law of diminishing marginal utility, how taxation changes time-preference schedules, the counterproductive nature of interventionism, involuntary unemployment, and so on. So long as the logic deriving the principles is correct, then economic laws are a priori-valid, and empirical testing has no bearing on them.<br />This book initially appeared in a difficult time, when positivist methodology and the Keynesian paradigm were dominant. Thus, upon _Human Action_'s release it was mostly derided and ignored by the mainstream, rather than studied and criticized. It did, however, gain notoriety among academic circles for rebuilding economic science from the ground up, all the while plowing through the epistemological shortcomings of previous standards.<br />Mises has provided considerable ammunition for institutional critique. He uncovered the socialist calculation problem -- a central planning authority has no rational way to allocate resources for production without market prices -- and this is an insurmountable hurdle for any state-run economy. In fact, when analyzed fully, it shows that _any_ government intervention in the economy results in market distortion and inefficiency. In essence, nothing can ever be provided more efficiently by the government nor can the government do anything to make the market more efficient. Murray Rothbard, who was of course Mises' student, explored this thoroughly in his critique of interventionism, _Power and Market_ (now available with the Scholar's Edition of _Man, Economy_ and State_).<br />Lee Carlson's shamefully inane review can be wholly disregarded. Although he appeals to authorities it does not change the fact that the search for mathematical parameters for economic analysis is utterly impossible because of the existence of human choice. But would finding such parameters be possible even if one could isolate all the factors involved that affect decision-making? Again, no, simply because of the fact of human choice. You cannot quantify economic laws mathematically. All parameters quantifying human choice are historical data and nothing more.<br />In regards to the reviews criticizing Mises extreme rationalism, they would do well to better understand Mises' methodology and the epistemological nature of economic science. To Mises, ultimately, all economic laws were derived from the incontestable axiom that, trivially enough, humans act, choosing between alternatives in a finite universe. In understanding the effects of different forms of economic activity, the economist must determine correct theory by relying on human choice as the guiding factor. To consider the effects of a change brought about by action, we need recognize that by taking certain choices, the opportunities for other choices are destroyed. And because the relationship between these universes resulting from different choices are a priori related to the others, there is no need to rely on empirical confirmation for correct theory. The corpus of economic science is essentially a system of counterfactual laws where empirical testing is completely useless. For example, it would be foolish to argue that consumption need not be preceded by production, just as it would be foolish to argue that money inflation does not raise prices higher than otherwise, just as it would be foolish to argue that 1+1=3. Like a mathematical proof, all economic laws must be refuted by identifying errors in the axiomatic-deductive chain. This is also the only truly valuable way to understand complex economic phenomena. For example, were rising real incomes in Canada 1950-1990 a result of increased taxes, or despite of more taxes? Would they have been higher still with higher or lower taxes? Counterfactual laws of case-probability are greatly more valuable than any mathematical model because of their counterfactual method. They require no qualifying considerations and are always true.<br />Finally, on the Scholar's Edition itself: This is a BEAUTIFUL book. From the Mises Institute:<br />\\"The Scholar's Edition is printed on stunning, pure white, acid-free Finch Fine 50 lb. paper; carefully set in the readable and beautiful Janson typeface, including the 1954 index, the most comprehensive ever done; covered in spectacular dark azure Odyssey cloth from Prague, the finest natural-finish, moisture-resistance book fabric in the world; secured by the finest caliper Binders board; protected by an impressive slipcase from the famous Old Dominion company; graced with antique-soapstone endpapers from Ecologic Fibers; casebound with the strongest Smyth-sewn signatures; fitted at head and foot with silken endbands, thick wrapped for durability; complemented with a double-faced, satin-finish ribbon marker; stamped with brilliant, non-tarnishing gold foil from Japan's Nakai International; and produced at R.R. Donnelly's famed Crawfordsville Bindery, where's America's finest books are assembled.\\" Pretty delicious, actually!<br />The Scholar's Edition also features an exhaustively compiled index and -- most importantly -- restores all the ambiguities and deleted material from the third and fourth editions.<br />UTTERLY ESSENTIAL FOR ALL CIVILIZED HUMAN BEINGS.s extreme rationalism, they would do well to better understand Mises' methodology and the epistemological nature of economic science. To Mises, ultimately, all economic laws were derived from the incontestable axiom that, trivially enough, humans act, choosing between alternatives in a finite universe. In understanding the effects of different forms of economic activity, the economist must determine correct theory by relying on human choice as the guiding factor. To consider the effects of a change brought about by action, we need recognize that by taking certain choices, the opportunities for other choices are destroyed. And because the relationship between these universes resulting from different choices are a priori related to the others, there is no need to rely on empirical confirmation for correct theory. The corpus of economic science is essentially a system of counterfactual laws where empirical testing is completely useless. For example, it would be foolish to argue that consumption need not be preceded by production, just as it would be foolish to argue that money inflation does not raise prices higher than otherwise, just as it would be foolish to argue that 1+1=3. Like a mathematical proof, all economic laws must be refuted by identifying errors in the axiomatic-deductive chain. This is also the only truly valuable way to understand complex economic phenomena. For example, were rising real incomes in Canada 1950-1990 a result of increased taxes, or despite of more taxes? Would they have been higher still with higher or lower taxes? Counterfactual laws of case-probability are greatly more valuable than any mathematical model because of their counterfactual method. They require no qualifying considerations and are always true. <br />Finally, on the Scholar's Edition itself: This is a BEAUTIFUL book. From the Mises Institute:<br />\\"The Scholar's Edition is printed on stunning, pure white, acid-free Finch Fine 50 lb. paper; carefully set in the readable andbeautiful Janson typeface, including the 1954 index, the most comprehensive ever done; covered in spectacular dark azure Odyssey cloth from Prague, the finest natural-finish, moisture-resistance book fabric in the world; secured by the finest caliper Binders board; protected by an impressive slipcase from the famous Old Dominion company; graced with antique-soapstone endpapers from Ecologic Fibers; casebound with the strongest Smyth-sewn signatures; fitted at head and foot with silken endbands, thick wrapped for durability; complemented with a double-faced, satin-finish ribbon marker; stamped with brilliant, non-tarnishing gold foil from Japan's Nakai International; and produced at R.R. Donnelly's famed Crawfordsville Bindery, where's America's finest books are assembled.\\" Pretty delicious, actually!<br />The Scholar's Edition also features an exhaustively compiled index and -- most importantly -- restores all the ambiguities and deleted material from the third and fourth editions.<br />UTTERLY ESSENTIAL FOR ALL CIVILIZED HUMAN BEINGS.	2004-05-31
US	50698858	R2PR7C243FPJ1H	0761501657	89555824	FDR's Folly: How Roosevelt and His New Deal Prolonged the Great Depression	Books	5	16	31	N	N	quick comment:	This is a great book. Ignore the fool below citing GNP figures that supposedly contradict Jim Powell's work here. The GNP is a joke. Remember, GNP rises when government spending rises, even though government spending does not increase wealth (it merely moves existing wealth around because all government spending must either come from expropriating from producers through taxation or by printing money). Just because the GNP is rising does not mean that the economy is improving. (Consider this: the neocon's war in Iraq is draining huge amounts of private wealth from the economy, and yet GNP would show that the war is GOOD FOR THE ECONOMY. Sorry, that doesn't fly). Before you pull figures out of your azz you should understand what they mean. Buy the book, it's good. Also pick up Murray Rothbard's _America's Great Depression_, which examines the cause of the Depression with using Austrian business cycle theory and analyzes Hoover's economically destructive policies. (Had Rothbard gotten into FDR's policies, he probably would have a written 3000 page taxonomy on intervention.) This makes a great companion to Rothbard's classic.	2004-05-14
US	50698858	R1N97ACG5HSI6N	0316115185	690803164	The Great Betrayal: How American Sovereignty and Social Justice Are Being Sacrificed to..	Books	1	26	88	N	N	completely fallacious.	Suppose I were to observe that cigarette smokers had a high incidence of lung cancer. I would be committing a grave logical fallacy to conclude that lung cancer causes people to smoke. No one would take me seriously.<br />And yet the central argument for Patrick Buchanan's _The Great Betrayal_ contains the exact same post hoc, ergo propter hoc fallacy. His thesis depends on the historical \\"proof\\" that America has been economically declining since adopting more \\"free trade measures\\" (more on that later) and was very prosperous in the 19th century when there was greater protection from foreign trade. He also cites as evidence the fall of the British Empire, which collapsed upon adopting free trade measures. Because Buchanan clearly knows nothing about economics, he does not understand if the US became prosperous _because of_ protectionism or _despite_ protectionism, and he does not understand if Britain's fall from economic power was _because of_ free trade or _despite_ free trade.<br />Here are the facts: the case for free trade is irrefutable. It would be absurd to attack it with empirical evidence, just as it would be absurd to attack a proof in Euclidean geometry with empirical evidence. If the protectionist case against free trade is true, consider this: it is also an attack against any form of interregional trade, as political boundaries are economically arbitrary, i.e. there is no separate theory for international trade. To be followed consistently it means that people would also be more prosperous if they didn't trade between states, cities, communities, and finally individuals. But this is absurd, for if you follow this line of reasoning logically, it means that people would be most prosperous if they were completely self-sufficient, which would in fact doom humanity to mass starvation and death. The simple, incontrovertible facts of Ricardo's law of comparative advantage and the division of labor affirm this.<br />Buchanan's emphasis on trade deficits is another example of his ignorance. I have a trade deficit with my local grocery store and Amazon.com -- who cares. Does Buchanan have any understanding as to what trade is all about? Clearly not. He seems to think that if trade is not \\"equal\\" or \\"fair,\\" it is bad. But the whole basis of exchange is opposite values: if you sell me a shirt, it is because I value the shirt more than the money, and you value the money more than the shirt. It doesn't matter whether or not I get that money back by selling you a toaster or whatever.<br />And those free-trade measures...let's see. Free trade could be established with one or two sentences, and it requires no agreements because it can be adopted unilaterally at any time. These so-called \\"free trade agreements\\" are just expansion of government privilege and regulation, such as the North American Free Trade Agreement, which is about 2500 pages. The World Trade Organization is a tool for political power, which subscribes to the economic absurdity \\"imports bad; exports good.\\" It's just neo-mercantilism disguised as free trade -- the wolf dressed in sheep's clothing. These are not examples of free trade gone bad, they instead demand that the _real_ case for free trade be defended and elucidated, and not confused with the politicians' and world bureaucrats' deceptive language.<br />I enjoy Buchanan on a social conservative level, but he is tremendously ignorant about some very important things. Go read some real economics like that \\"dead Austrian economist\\" (as Buchanan calls him), Ludwig von Mises, and stay away from this non-scientific labyrinth of fallacies. It's almost as bad as what they teach in public schools. Buchanan's dead wrong on this one -- don't worry about him and keep buying cheap goods from Wal-Mart.other example of his ignorance. I have a trade deficit with my local grocery store and Amazon.com -- who cares. Does Buchanan have any understanding as to what trade is all about? Clearly not. He seems to think that if trade is not \\"equal\\" or \\"fair,\\" it is bad. But the whole basis of exchange is opposite values: if you sell me a shirt, it is because I value the shirt more than the money, and you value the money more than the shirt. It doesn't matter whether or not I get that money back by selling you a toaster or whatever.<br />And those free-trade measures...let's see. Free trade could be established with one or two sentences, and it requires no agreements because it can be adopted unilaterally at any time. These so-called \\"free trade agreements\\" are just expansion of government privilege and regulation, such as the North American Free Trade Agreement, which is about 2500 pages. The World Trade Organization is a tool for political power, which subscribes to the economic absurdity \\"imports bad; exports good.\\" It's just neo-mercantilism disguised as free trade -- the wolf dressed in sheep's clothing. These are not examples of free trade gone bad, they instead demand that the _real_ case for free trade be defended and elucidated, and not confused with the politicians' and world bureaucrats' deceptive language.<br />I enjoy Buchanan on a social conservative level, but he is tremendously ignorant about some very important things. Go read some real economics like that \\"dead Austrian economist\\" (as Buchanan calls him), Ludwig von Mises, and stay away from this non-scientific labyrinth of fallacies. It's almost as bad as what they teach in public schools. Buchanan's dead wrong on this one -- don't worry about him and keep buying cheap goods from Wal-Mart.	2004-02-15
US	50698858	RV5ZD20B7GC5	0465097200	39953810	Anarchy, State, and Utopia	Books	3	7	17	N	N	very overrated.	_Anarchy, State, and Utopia_ is considered a libertarian classic, but while it is interesting to read, its value is somewhat marginalized by lack of substance. This is no treatise with consistent methodology -- it's mostly a collection of thought experiments and fanciful ideas. The book is basically comprised of Nozick's hypothetical situations and his timid examinations of them. &quot;Property rights&quot; seem important to Nozick's way of thinking, but he never presents what rights are in any systematic way. The book doesn't &quot;build,&quot; it just skirts from one idea to the next without ever reaching satisfying conclusions. Because of this, he faces considerable difficulties and reaches weak conclusions. Why is it so highly regarded? I'm not entirely sure, but I would guess that this book's popularity is due in part to its accessibility and easygoing approach. Yet, its importance has been far too overstated: some people deride scholars for not referring to Nozick's ostensible contributions to libertarian theory, and yet Nozick really contributes nothing to the hard core of libertarian philosophy. One of the most influential chapters in Part I is Nozick's thought experiment on the transformation of a stateless society to a minimal State that violates nobody's rights, but this process is so riddled with confusion and inconsistencies that it fails in practically every respect. The first issue of the Journal of Libertarian Studies was based on a symposium for _Anarchy, State, and Utopia_ and subjected Nozick's formation of the minimal State to withering criticism. That whole idea can no longer be considered meaningful. Part II of the book is pretty good though - it is polemical and offers some classic refutations of John Rawls' &quot;veil of ignorance&quot; and social contract establishing rights. (Rawls doesn't deserve the amount of attention Nozick gives him, however. The veil only applies to epistemological wraiths who float-around without bodies. By virtue of having bodies and exclusive control over them and being able to argue what is or what is not just, private property rights are established a priori, thus necessitating a comprehensive theory for those rights, not vacuous, arbitrary solutions proposed by Rawls). Far more important are writers like Murray Rothbard, Walter Block, N. Stephen Kinsella, and Hans-Hermann Hoppe. Anyone looking for a truly definitive, systematic libertarian treatise is encouraged to read Murray Rothbard's _real_ classic, _The Ethics of Liberty_. Is Nozick's book here worth reading? Yes, but keep in mind it's value has been highly overexaggerated.having bodies and exclusive control over them and being able to argue what is or what is not just, private property rights are established a priori, thus necessitating a comprehensive theory for those rights, not vacuous, arbitrary solutions proposed by Rawls). Far more important are writers like Murray Rothbard, Walter Block, N. Stephen Kinsella, and Hans-Hermann Hoppe. Anyone looking for a truly definitive, systematic libertarian treatise is encouraged to read Murray Rothbard's _real_ classic, _The Ethics of Liberty_. Is Nozick's book here worth reading? Yes, but keep in mind it's value has been highly overexaggerated.	2004-02-03
US	50698858	R31K53JOY3967X	0674649265	636002104	Overcoming Law	Books	1	3	39	N	N	Posner is overrated.	he's really not that bright. Go read Lon Fuller instead.	2004-01-19
US	50698858	R114YHWKU9KH45	0898382793	229927279	A Theory of Socialism and Capitalism: Economics, Politics, and Ethics	Books	5	13	14	N	N	groundbreaking, accessible, and essential.	It is my hope that _A Theory of Socialism and Capitalism_ comes back into print as soon as possible. It is simply one of the most important books on political economy ever written, and I think other reviewers have understated the importance of Hoppe's &quot;argumentation ethics&quot; as the ultimate defense of capitalism.<br />Lew Rockwell, president of the Ludwig von Mises Institute, calls Hans-Hermann Hoppe an &quot;international treasure.&quot; Indeed he is. Professor Hoppe is political economist and philosopher devoted to extreme rationalism and Austrian (praxeological) economics whose his work over the years has been uncompromising and logically unassailable. This is no exception.<br />This book is an interdisciplinary study of the &quot;economics, politics, and ethics&quot; of capitalism and socialism. Hoppe's axiomatic-deductive methodology is his key advantage. His unfailing adherence to a priori theory provides the correct basis for analysis of complex phenomena. This treatise, while not very long (250 pages, about 50 of which is notes and references) is broad in its treatment and packed with value. In just a page Hoppe says more than many authors will in their entire book. He makes the case for the economic superiority of capitalism while addressing the alleged problems of monopoly and &quot;public goods.&quot; Economically, he devastates the case for socialism, whether heavily interventionist social-democracy or public ownership of resources a la Soviet Russia. His analysis of the State as an institution of legalized coercion -- influenced by the likes of Rothbard, Oppenheimer, de Jouvenel, and de la Boetie -- is simply brilliant. He also argues for a priori theory as the proper basis for economic analysis, which is always welcome.<br /><br />The entire book is excellent, but I think the most important chapter is &quot;The Ethical Justification of Capitalism and Why Socialism is Morally Indefensible.&quot; Here, Hoppe presents a praxeological justification of the private property ethic. What Hoppe has done here is frankly groundbreaking -- his defense amounts to an impossibility proof that refutes any non-homesteading/socialist ethic, since the explicit act of arguing against it implicitly agrees with private property rights. Although influenced by Murray Rothbard (and part of Hoppe's argument uses Rothbard's property argumentum a contrario), Hoppe's defense has several advantages. Principally, it is a value-free ethical system and encounters none of the staple natural rights defender's stumbling blocks. And since this ethical formulation is grounded in the axiomatic status of action and argumentation, it gives an ethical basis for action itself. Until one examines this defense, it may seem fanciful and irrelevant (indeed, even among libertarians the response to this as been largely hostile). However, I believe it to be irrefutably true, and indeed this is the case.<br />This book is essential for students of politics and economics. Also, all serious philosophers anywhere should read Hoppe's defense of property rights. With standard bearers such as Hoppe leading the way, liberty has good prospects.f the private property ethic. What Hoppe has done here is frankly groundbreaking -- his defense amounts to an impossibility proof that refutes any non-homesteading/socialist ethic, since the explicit act of arguing against it implicitly agrees with private property rights. Although influenced by Murray Rothbard (and part of Hoppe's argument uses Rothbard's property argumentum a contrario), Hoppe's defense has several advantages. Principally, it is a value-free ethical system and encounters none of the staple natural rights defender's stumbling blocks. And since this ethical formulation is grounded in the axiomatic status of action and argumentation, it gives an ethical basis for action itself. Until one examines this defense, it may seem fanciful and irrelevant (indeed, even among libertarians the response to this as been largely hostile). However, I believe it to be irrefutably true, and indeed this is the case.<br />This book is essential for students of politics and economics. Also, all serious philosophers anywhere should read Hoppe's defense of property rights. With standard bearers such as Hoppe leading the way, liberty has good prospects.	2003-10-27
US	50698858	R2QGC8KLC7TQTG	0765808684	624392378	Democracy  The God That Failed: The Economics and Politics of Monarchy, Democracy and Natural Order (Perspectives on Democratic Practice)	Books	5	68	76	N	Y	down with democracy.	Hans-Hermann Hoppe is a very important political economist and philosopher in the intellectual tradition of the Austrian School of Economics -- I would say he is without a doubt the most important anarchocapitalist thinker since Murray Rothbard. His book, _Democracy: The God That Failed_, is the most devastating and solid critique of democracy I have seen, and is essential reading for everyone in our new millennium.<br />Democracy is conventionally regarded as the best form of government. Even most rigorous anti-statists such as Murray Rothbard (to whom Hoppe is intellectually indebted) looked upon democracy as an improvement over alternative systems of government. Professor Hoppe dissents with this view, averring that monarchy (ancien-regime-style) is a 'better' system than democracy. However, this is _not_ a defense of monarchy, for Hoppe sees any form of state as morally unjustifiable. Rather, _Democracy: The God That Failed_ serves a twin purpose: firstly, to interpret history and account for the dramatic rise in exploitation observed in the democratic age. Secondly, Hoppe asserts the moral and economic superiority of a system he calls &quot;natural order&quot; -- a stateless society of private property anarchy.<br />By what insight does Hoppe show that monarchy is the superior system? It is shockingly brilliant in its simplicity, yet the implications that follow are critical. What Hoppe states is this: A monarch is essentially the _private_ owner of the government -- all exploited resources are *owned* by him. (Perhaps the insightful reader will already be able to predict Hoppe's conclusion.) As such, he will work to maximize both current income and the total capital value of his estate. In effect, he owns the kingdom. Thus, assuming self-interest, his planning horizon will be farsighted and exploitation be far more limited. Contrarily, in a publicly-owned government -- i.e. democracy -- the rulers' have current use of resources only, not their capital value. These government caretakers cannot personally keep that which is exploited from the tax-producers. Thus, systematic property violations will be greater under a democracy. In economic jargon, the monarch's degree of time-preference will be substantially lower than that of the publicly-owned government caretaker due to difference in ownership. But isn't the democratic system kept in check by elections? Not really, argues Hoppe, as those in power &quot;buy&quot; votes with their redistribution policies and egalitarian schemes. (Just like Alberta's current premiere buys votes with oil rebate checks, psh.)<br />With these propositions, Hoppe examines issues the varying impact of monarchies and democracies on time preference (the rate at which present satisfaction is preferred to future satisfaction) (Chapter 1), differing policies on immigration (Chapters 7 and 8), differences in degree of exploitation (Chapter 2) the economics of redistribution (Chapter 4).<br />He also makes the positive case for a natural order in the private production of security (Chapter 12), explains the erroneous classical liberal belief in the possibility of a limited government (Chapters 11 and 13), explores methods of desocialization of public property (Chapter 6), argues for the right to secession (Chapter 5) and myriad other important things. One crucial chapter is &quot;On Conservatism and Libertarianism&quot; (Chapter 10), where Hoppe demonstrates that libertarians and conservatives are natural allies in their goals, thus libertarians must be social conservatives and conservatives must be anti-state libertarians. Their goals can only be realized in alliance against all opponents to private property rights, as well as the false libertarians (modal libertarians) and socialist conservatives and neoconservatives.<br />In response to roGER's asinine review (I won't even comment on his blatant post hoc, ergo propter hoc fallacy about democracies and their GDPs), it is obvious that he simply doesnot understand what Professor Hoppe has done here. Firstly, this is not a defense of monarchy. Secondly, in order to correctly interpret history, Professor Hoppe's analysis of monarchical and democratic systems is rooted in social science theories that are established a priori. Thus it is important to recognize that his argument cannot be proven or refuted on empirical grounds. However, this does not detract from the power of his argument -- quite the contrary, it makes the position in _Democracy: The God That Failed_ even more convincing.<br />In conclusion, Natural Order &gt; Monarchy &gt; Democracy. This book is in my opinion extremely important, not just to economists, historians, and defenders of liberty, but anyone really. A bonus is that Hoppe's prose is compact yet lucid, so it's not inaccessible to the average reader.s not understand what Professor Hoppe has done here. Firstly, this is not a defense of monarchy. Secondly, in order to correctly interpret history, Professor Hoppe's analysis of monarchical and democratic systems is rooted in social science theories that are established a priori. Thus it is important to recognize that his argument cannot be proven or refuted on empirical grounds. However, this does not detract from the power of his argument -- quite the contrary, it makes the position in _Democracy: The God That Failed_ even more convincing. <br />In conclusion, Natural Order &gt; Monarchy &gt; Democracy. This book is in my opinion extremely important, not just to economists, historians, and defenders of liberty, but anyone really. A bonus is that Hoppe's prose is compact yet lucid, so it's not inaccessible to the average reader.	2003-09-19
US	50698858	R3N4BMHG0IFFH7	0517548232	656533858	Economics in One Lesson: The Shortest and Surest Way to Understand Basic Economics	Books	5	13	17	N	N	economics for non-economists.	In fact, I think most economists need to read Hazlitt's classic too. And if they've already read it...they should read it again, because I think quite a few of them need to be reminded of some simple truths.<br />I am a graduate economics student and I have trudged through extremely technical economic literature in my time. Most leading economists these days become hyperspecialized and esoteric in some paltry technical issue to the point where their work is practically useless to the average person. This is a very terrible thing. Because knowledge of economics is so crucially important to our understanding of human behavior and the world, I think it *should* be accessible to more people. For this reason, I am always on the lookout for books that help people understand economics easily. That way, we can have a much better world.<br />I have found few books better for the beginner than _Economics in One Lesson_. Henry Hazlitt's book here is very highly regarded and for good reason: it's an excellent, simple look at economic issues that teaches an important lesson. That lesson? That good economics entails looking at the long-term effects of economic policies on *everyone*, rather than the short-term effects on one group. With this, we can see that when the government intervenes in the economy, there are always consequences that not immediately evident.<br />Although the book was originally published in 1946, the topics covered by Hazlitt are pertinent and explore issues that still confront us more than 50 years later. Topics include inflation, tariffs, taxation, price fixing, labor unions, savings, the importance of profits, rent control, and more. Hazlitt writes well and doesn't obfuscate the truths of matters with cumbersome graphs and math.<br />Please ignore James McDuffie's fatuous review. Most of the \\"implicit assumptions\\" Hazlitt makes are unassailable facts of reality established a priori. (Except for the assumption that government can be the *only* provider of some services, like roads, \\"health officers,\\" police, etc.) Also, mathematics is all but useless in economics. The Keynesian paradigm no longer deserves any serious attention since it has been so thoroughly refuted a hundred thousand times over. Inflation as being beneficial to the economy is a fallacy that is easily destroyed by someone with a basic knowledge of money & credit theory. Alan Greenspan a free market proponent? That's ridiculous -- he definitely was 40 years ago but he has since become anathema to the economic prosperity. In fact he's probably the most destructive Federal Reserve Chairman in history.<br />Pick up this book and Gene Callahan's _Economics for Real People_ and you'll probably have a better economic education than you will find with any undergraduate degree in neoclassical economics. I'm serious.some services, like roads, \\"health officers,\\" police, etc.) Also, mathematics is all but useless in economics. The Keynesian paradigm no longer deserves any serious attention since it has been so thoroughly refuted a hundred thousand times over. Inflation as being beneficial to the economy is a fallacy that is easily destroyed by someone with a basic knowledge of money & credit theory. Alan Greenspan a free market proponent? That's ridiculous -- he definitely was 40 years ago but he has since become anathema to the economic prosperity. In fact he's probably the most destructive Federal Reserve Chairman in history.<br />Pick up this book and Gene Callahan's _Economics for Real People_ and you'll probably have a better economic education than you will find with any undergraduate degree in neoclassical economics. I'm serious.	2003-09-12
US	50698858	R13W41AP3VNKMU	0963233661	914851228	Healing Our World: In an Age of Aggression	Books	5	50	51	N	N	First-rate introduction to libertarian-anarchism.	Like Murray Rothbard's classic _For a New Liberty_ from years ago, _Healing Our World_ -- despite having a title and cover one might associate with leftist-liberals -- is a fantastic sort of updated \\"total\\" defense of libertarianism and introduction to the concept.<br />Ruwart introduces the groundwork of the non-aggression axiom with less attention on natural rights and private property arguments and more on accessible, plain moral reasoning that is pretty much unassailable. She then introduces the reader to the consequences of aggression, particularly the government's aggression, on society. The government's use of aggression disrupts free interaction between people and thus makes us worse off. As Scott Ryan says below, she shows that liberty is a win-win situation.<br />Like Rothbard, she mounts a compelling case on numerous issues: Pollution, monopoly, war, foreign policy, welfare, courts, business regulation, minimum wage, police, et cetera et cetera. Her examination of education doesn't give much attention to the actual fact of the State influencing children but focuses on private schooling solutions.<br />Older versions of _For a New Liberty_ lacked a discussion of one of the most dangerous powers of the State: control over the (fiat) money supply. Ruwart explains fractional reserve banking, the consequences of a central banking system in a way that is _very_ easy to understand.<br />_For a New Liberty_ has nothing specifically about healthcare. Ruwart fortunately explores two government elements very detrimental to our health: the Food & Drug Administration and licensing/regulation of health care services.<br />She also expands on some out the arguments Rothbard made briefly in his chapter \\"Personal Liberty\\". For one, she looks at armed citizens and the effect of right-to-carry laws on crime rates (citing lots of Bruce Benson's important work). Her chapter on illegal drugs is definitive, showing plainly that creating a black market for drugs is worse than the drugs themselves.<br />The book mounts a consistent case with nary a concession given to government. Therefore, she makes an anarchocapitalist case without saying she is an anarchist (although she says she is in her libertarian autobiography over at Lew Rockwell's site).<br />Ruwart does not involve herself much in an \\"anatomy of the State\\" (pun intended of course) and its very nature being immoral and criminal, although the overtone is obviously there. The State does bad things and is therefore bad, but the book is about the effects on those things and not the fact that the State is bad. If that makes sense. I think it does.<br />And, perhaps as a corollary of that Ruwart's overall tone is very accessible and positive. For this reason, she seems more likely than anyone I can think of to prevail on skeptics, whether they are \\"conservative\\" or \\"liberal\\" (as Ruwart herself once was -- might not impress cold-hearted neo-cons though. Marxists are very deluded too).<br />And it's really beautifully written and essential for all good people. this review is getting way too long, but I think you should buy it.the drugs themselves. <br />The book mounts a consistent case with nary a concession given to government. Therefore, she makes an anarchocapitalist case without saying she is an anarchist (although she says she is in her libertarian autobiography over at Lew Rockwell's site). <br />Ruwart does not involve herself much in an \\"anatomy of the State\\" (pun intended of course) and its very nature being immoral and criminal, although the overtone is obviously there. The State does bad things and is therefore bad, but the book is about the effects on those things and not the fact that the State is bad. If that makes sense. I think it does.<br />And, perhaps as a corollary of that Ruwart's overall tone is very accessible and positive. For this reason, she seems more likely than anyone I can think of to prevail on skeptics, whether they are \\"conservative\\" or \\"liberal\\" (as Ruwart herself once was -- might not impress cold-hearted neo-cons though. Marxists are very deluded too).<br />And it's really beautifully written and essential for all good people. this review is getting way too long, but I think you should buy it.	2003-06-30
US	50698858	R3ST7EITW002TZ	0761536418	268587681	The Real Lincoln: A New Look at  Abraham Lincoln, His Agenda, and an Unnecessary War	Books	5	23	35	N	N	ESSENTIAL - great, detailed, extensive, myth-crushing.	It was Ilana Mercer who brought this book to my attention through one of her WND columns back in early 2002. She was quite pleased with it, and the Lincoln worshippers saw her article and started dismissing the book as ridiculous before it was even released. I just finished reading the book for the second time and I find it exceptional, and it withstands all the criticism I've seen so far.<br />The Lincoln fairy tale is _irrevocably demolished_ by Professor DiLorenzo. This book disintegrates the dishonest, ahistorical work by Harry Jaffa, _A New Birth of Freedom_ another major work on Abraham Lincoln. I was amazed by how thorough it is, not limiting itself to the Civil War but the entirety of Lincoln's character and mission itself. Lincoln was very devoted to Henry Clay's American System, which defied the Constitution sought to focus more power in the federal government. Lincoln was a protectionist who accelerated the entanglement of business and state and was devoted to nationalizing the money supply. The Civil War was not a war to end slavery, it was about secession. In order to achieve the empire he sought, Lincoln had to destroy the ability to secede. Then it would become a matter of reversing the concept that states created union, so that union created states. Lincoln sought union, empire, economic power, and though purportedly opposed to slavery, he officially meant to safeguard it where it existed. He actually wanted all the slaves sent back to Africa (a point I have not seen addressed by DiLorenzo's critics). It can be shown that Lincoln had NO plan whatsoever to deal with emancipated slaves. In any case, even though slavery ended they were not at all free.<br />The most important quality of this book is that DiLorenzo's findings are _tight_. Some have tried to refute the book (Church of Lincoln boss, Harry Jaffa; Ken Masugi; Richard Ferrier; numerous others...but those are some of the important ones), but their criticisms are either wimpy excuses for Lincoln's actions or distortions of facts. Many of DiLorenzo's findings are ignored entirely. There is something to be said when critics do not address important assertions. I also value the fact that DiLorenzo's background as an economist causes him to point out the ruinous implications of Lincoln's ignorant economic policies.<br />Final point: there is an abusive straw man laid out by Lincoln supporters to expose an 'inconsistency' in defending secession in light of slavery. Let us put things in perspective: secession IS emancipation, just on a different scale. In principle they are no different. After all, what is slavery but a coerced *union* where the strong dominates the weak? To defend secession is to support one microcosm in the grand scheme of emancipation. Lincoln destroyed the threat of secession as a check on federal power -- that is very bad!oln's actions or distortions of facts. Many of DiLorenzo's findings are ignored entirely. There is something to be said when critics do not address important assertions. I also value the fact that DiLorenzo's background as an economist causes him to point out the ruinous implications of Lincoln's ignorant economic policies.<br />Final point: there is an abusive straw man laid out by Lincoln supporters to expose an 'inconsistency' in defending secession in light of slavery. Let us put things in perspective: secession IS emancipation, just on a different scale. In principle they are no different. After all, what is slavery but a coerced *union* where the strong dominates the weak? To defend secession is to support one microcosm in the grand scheme of emancipation. Lincoln destroyed the threat of secession as a check on federal power -- that is very bad!	2003-04-06
US	50698858	R1IIW1XREP1TPD	0020746903	156045134	For a New Liberty: The Libertarian Manifesto	Books	5	31	32	N	N	Become hardcore for freedom.	Among all the available introductions to libertarian thought, I think Murray Rothbard's _For a New Liberty_ is the best. In it, Rothbard sets out the principles of anarchocapitalism, a system of political-economy where property rights are sacrosanct and no government exists. This is important because most libertarians support some degree of government is necessary in order to preserve a person's right to self-ownership and property.<br />However, Rothbard argues that the very existence of the State violates man's rights and is incompatible with freedom, even in a democratic society. This is an problem many libertarian scholars have struggled with in attempting to justify limited government. Rothbard faces no such inconsistency.<br />First, Rothbard introduces the concept of man's rights, establishing that the only valid right can be the right to self-ownership and ownership of one's property. With these principles -- along with the traditional libertarian non-aggression axiom -- Rothbard offers meaningful solutions to the reams of problems in today's society. He makes a forceful case that our problems would be easily solved following principles of the free market, private property, and non-aggression. Education, welfare, free speech, pollution, crime...Rothbard tackles numerous issues with great insight and clarity. In my opinion, the only significant issue he doesn't really explore is healthcare, but hey...it's a short book. (For an excellent libertarian exploration of the healthcare issue [among MANY other things], see Dr. Mary J. Ruwart's definitive _Healing Our World_. Amazon sells it.)<br />Rothbard introduces many ideas in this book that would be dubbed \\"radical\\" by most -- the abolishment of government police services, courts, and national defense being the most obvious. But he also believes in unlimited free speech -- this means there would be nothing illegal about blackmail or libel in a libertarian society. To most, many libertarians included, these ideas are difficult to get one's head around.<br />Large chapters are devoted to education, welfare, private roads, crime & private security, ecology, conservation of resources, and national defense. Some have accused Rothbard of skipping out on the private police/courts system, but this book is not a 1000-page treatise. He offers theory and historical evidence to support his ideas, but truthfully such a topic requires many books on its own. A good and short adjunct to Rothbard's ideas here is Hans-Hermann Hoppe's brilliant article \\"The Private Production of Defense\\", from the Journal of Libertarian Studies. Some good books on the issue are _The Enterprise of Law_ and _To Serve and Protect_, both by Bruce Benson, and _The Structure of Liberty_ by Randy Barnett. I believe Amazon sells all of them.<br />I've read this book around ten times. Worth owning if you care about where the world is headed.are difficult to get one's head around. <br />Large chapters are devoted to education, welfare, private roads, crime & private security, ecology, conservation of resources, and national defense. Some have accused Rothbard of skipping out on the private police/courts system, but this book is not a 1000-page treatise. He offers theory and historical evidence to support his ideas, but truthfully such a topic requires many books on its own. A good and short adjunct to Rothbard's ideas here is Hans-Hermann Hoppe's brilliant article \\"The Private Production of Defense\\", from the Journal of Libertarian Studies. Some good books on the issue are _The Enterprise of Law_ and _To Serve and Protect_, both by Bruce Benson, and _The Structure of Liberty_ by Randy Barnett. I believe Amazon sells all of them.<br />I've read this book around ten times. Worth owning if you care about where the world is headed.	2003-01-29
US	50698858	R1NDRG3LN5XKII	0963233629	539711272	Healing Our World: The Other Piece of the Puzzle	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Heal the world, you say?	I love this book. Really.<br />Dr. Ruwart's political philosophy's foundation is about non-aggression. This is nothing new in the libertarian creed, and the difference is that instead of concentrating on arguments of property rights, she really drives home with the non-aggression principle. She avers that by using aggression (i.e. force) to solve our problems, we end up only worsening our lives. We create a world of zero-sum games instead of a system that respects individual choices so long as they do not harm our person or property.<br />What also makes this book a pleasure to read is that it its tone is very friendly and accommodating. Many people (rightly) expect books on political philosophy to be badgering or aggressively written, so I like that Dr. Ruwart ditched the popular approach. Plus, her compassionate way of writing makes it difficult to call her a bloodthirsty free-market fan -- she does care about matters like helping the poor and making healthcare accessible.<br />Every issue she looks at shows the failures of aggression (i.e. government) to be effective, and conversely non-aggression (i.e. voluntary, private cooperation) has been more successful. Healthcare intervention? It's aggression, and it's bad for our health (and our wallet). The Federal Reserve? Central banking is aggression that monopolizes the money supply and creates the \\"boom & bust\\" cycle. The public school system? It might be obvious that the Department of Education doesn't actually educate anyone, but the whole setup is aggressive too, and children suffer because of it.<br />The principle of non-aggression is also applied to pollution, crime & punishment, the FDA, gun ownership, and -- the one especially important these days -- foreign policy. Non-aggression wins every time, and very few issues go untouched.<br />A cool touch to Dr. Ruwart's book is that she puts tons of great, great quotes in the margins, which work wonderfully with the topic at hand. One of my favorites comes from the first chapter (about the basis of non-aggression): \\"...we are living in a sick Society filled with people who would not directly steal from their neighbor but who are willing to demand that the government do it for them,\\" says William L. Comer. That's classic! There's a lot of great ones, many of which I didn't recognize.<br /><br />Please, read this book. This is a world where governments keep getting bigger, and that will always mean more aggression as the State invades more aspects of our lives. Know what's scary? In Chapter 19, \\"The Communist Threat Is All In Our Minds\\", Ruwart shows that the United States has implemented eight of ten policies The Communist Manifesto declared necessary for a transition into socialism. Darn. So, getting the word out on liberty is always a good thing. Please see Scott Ryan's excellent review of this book too.the first chapter (about the basis of non-aggression): \\"...we are living in a sick Society filled with people who would not directly steal from their neighbor but who are willing to demand that the government do it for them,\\" says William L. Comer. That's classic! There's a lot of great ones, many of which I didn't recognize.<BR> <BR>Please, read this book. This is a world where governments keep getting bigger, and that will always mean more aggression as the State invades more aspects of our lives. Know what's scary? In Chapter 19, \\"The Communist Threat Is All In Our Minds\\", Ruwart shows that the United States has implemented eight of ten policies The Communist Manifesto declared necessary for a transition into socialism. Darn. So, getting the word out on liberty is always a good thing. Please see Scott Ryan's excellent review of this book too.	2002-05-18
US	50698858	R2SMR32ZRZFG8G	1572307579	747312290	Selling the Free Market: The Rhetoric of Economic Correctness	Books	1	26	55	N	N	Dishonest and shameful.	This book is obscenely bad. I don't think I've ever seen more ad hominems in any book I've read.<br />Dr. Aune is a Marxist, that much is clear. Before he even gets through the introduction, he praises Karl Marx a number of times. He speaks of horrors such as \\"market failure,\\" the \\"dictatorship of the bourgoisie,\\" and the anti-democratic nature of the political right.<br />Why am I reviewing this book anyway? Well, I don't like Marxism, but that doesn't really have anything to do with this. Instead, it's because a good chunk of this thing is spent demonizing Murray Rothbard, a man I had a lot of respect for. When speaking of Murray Rothbard, Dr. Aune is not only offensive but incredibly incompetent or dishonest. Aune claims  that Rothbard could not make moral distinctions -- however, Rothbard was not a moral subjectivist. Aune also thinks that Rothbard rejected utilitarianism as an ethical theory because he was opposed to the greatest overall happiness. Anyone who has read Rothbard's work would know this is incorrect -- Rothbard was no utilitarian, but he _did_ argue for policies that would bring greater happiness to society. Aune even has the audacity to say Rothbard was comparable to Oklahoma City bomber Timothy McVeigh. Aune also hints (in a not-so-subtle way) that Rothbard advocated slavery. Give me a break. The entire groundwork of Rothbard's political theory was that _no one_ could be the slave of _anyone else_. Aune suggests that anyone defending \\"freedom of association\\" is racist and anyone attacking the banking system is an anti-semite. So, if you take Aune's word for it, Rothbard is quite the nasty bigot.<br />Rothbard is also depicted as a Holocaust denier. THIS IS NOT TRUE. In fact, it is so blatantly false that Dr. Aune should be slapped. Aune must have some kind of justification for this claim, right? Rothbard wrote an article that implored people to examine the _horrors_ perpetrated by the State...in this case, the Holocaust. This article was linked to on some Holocaust denier website. For more examples of Aune's [stupid] research skills, I found that he actually makes mistakes on the background of Rothbard's education and a number of important names.<br />(Just so you know, Rothbard's critiques of big business and the State dwarf those of socialists like Aune. Actually, Aune himself recognizes this, but since \\"all free-market defenders are right-wing,\\" this is interpreted as inconsistency.)<br />If I ever meet Dr. Aune, I would like to ask him if he has actually read anything Rothbard ever wrote. Rothbard's books weren't written in Egyptian or Chinese...they _are_ in English. Given Aune's pile of fiery rhetoric, he understands English well enough. Maybe he just doesn't know anything. After all, he sees the Stalinist Louis Althusser as a wonderful political scholar, but demonizes Murray Rothbard, who vehemently fought against the State's eternal aggression against people. Hmm.<br />Given Dr. Aune's extreme dishonesty, no one should read this book. As you can probably guess, I am not a Marxist, but there are far better Marxist books than this [junk], and they don't resort to straw men or abusive ad hominems. I recommend this only to people who enjoy wasting their money or those who like reading books by blatant liars.to on some Holocaust denier website. For more examples of Aune's [stupid] research skills, I found that he actually makes mistakes on the background of Rothbard's education and a number of important names.<br />(Just so you know, Rothbard's critiques of big business and the State dwarf those of socialists like Aune. Actually, Aune himself recognizes this, but since \\"all free-market defenders are right-wing,\\" this is interpreted as inconsistency.)<br />If I ever meet Dr. Aune, I would like to ask him if he has actually read anything Rothbard ever wrote. Rothbard's books weren't written in Egyptian or Chinese...they _are_ in English. Given Aune's pile of fiery rhetoric, he understands English well enough. Maybe he just doesn't know anything. After all, he sees the Stalinist Louis Althusser as a wonderful political scholar, but demonizes Murray Rothbard, who vehemently fought against the State's eternal aggression against people. Hmm.<br />Given Dr. Aune's extreme dishonesty, no one should read this book. As you can probably guess, I am not a Marxist, but there are far better Marxist books than this [junk], and they don't resort to straw men or abusive ad hominems. I recommend this only to people who enjoy wasting their money or those who like reading books by blatant liars.	2002-05-14
US	50698858	R9CWOWCLKV6EG	0945466056	230897465	America's Great Depression	Books	5	198	217	N	N	Invaluable even after 40 years.	Economist Alan Reynolds wrote: \\"The terror of the Great Crash has been the failure to explain it.\\" I wonder if he ever read this great book, which is now in its fifth edition. Murray Rothbard's exploration of this devastating economic calamity is both fascinating and pertinent.<br />Rothbard refutes key misconceptions about the market economy and the Hoover administration's interventionist policies. Was the Great Crash due to capitalism gone wild? Was President Hoover the proponent of laissez-faire that some continue to insist? Did his interventionist actions assuage the depression? _America's Great Depression_ will always be important because of the Great Depression's legacy. Many continue to believe that the free market economy is inevitably inclined to collapse. Also, the interventionist policies of Presidents Hoover and Roosevelt accelerated the growth of the welfare state.<br />Economists have always observed the relationship between money supplies and business cycles. Rothbard goes a few steps farther, applying the Austrian school's theory of the business cycle to the Federal Reserve's monetary policies during the 1920s. Rothbard spends the first part of the book detailing the credibility of the Austrian theory and dismantling other theories. He shows how artificial increases in the money supply creates harmful imbalances in the economy. With this premise, Rothbard explains that the Federal Reserve's inflationary abuse of the money supply in the \\"Roaring Twenties\\" set the economy up for an unsustainable growth spurt that ended in disaster in 1929. (The scary thing is that prices remained fairly stable and hid the effects of inflation with ruinous results.)<br />After talking money supplies and business cycles for a while, Rothbard turns his attention to President Hoover's actions to correct the problem. Despite good intentions, government involvement aggravated the Depression. The most damaging and glaring mistake of the Hoover administration was the Smoot-Hawley Tariff, which basically smashed the world's economy. But what else was done? How did different policies delay the economy's recovery? There's a lot to be learned here. In the end, the lesson Rothbard hopes to teach is that the best option for government in fixing a depression is \\"laissez-faire.\\"<br />Since the book focuses only on the early part of the Depression (up to 1933), it's unfortunate that Rothbard didn't criticize President Roosevelt's interventionist policies, which eviscerated the economy while it struggled to recover. Rothbard would have had a field day examining the effects of the NRA, the AAA, the WPA, the CWA, the Wagner Act, and everything else the New Deal implemented that I can't remember off the top of my head.<br />Since this book was originally published in the 60s (1963, I think), many people probably sneered at it. After all, in a time when Keynsianism was trendy, who was willing to blame the government for the Great Depression? Praise to Rothbard for this important application of Austrian theory and his exposure of the government's clumsiness.wley Tariff, which basically smashed the world's economy. But what else was done? How did different policies delay the economy's recovery? There's a lot to be learned here. In the end, the lesson Rothbard hopes to teach is that the best option for government in fixing a depression is \\"laissez-faire.\\"<br />Since the book focuses only on the early part of the Depression (up to 1933), it's unfortunate that Rothbard didn't criticize President Roosevelt's interventionist policies, which eviscerated the economy while it struggled to recover. Rothbard would have had a field day examining the effects of the NRA, the AAA, the WPA, the CWA, the Wagner Act, and everything else the New Deal implemented that I can't remember off the top of my head.<br />Since this book was originally published in the 60s (1963, I think), many people probably sneered at it. After all, in a time when Keynsianism was trendy, who was willing to blame the government for the Great Depression? Praise to Rothbard for this important application of Austrian theory and his exposure of the government's clumsiness.	2002-03-11
US	50698858	RAJP3NAOR78Z7	081257639X	145563216	Faith of the Fallen (Sword of Truth, Book 6)	Books	5	11	18	N	N	The inspiring triumph of the human spirit.	I used to read fantasy literature indiscriminately and voraciously. I liked the heroism, the excitement, the new worlds, the imagination, et cetera. But lately, though I still read it from time to time, my interest never reaches the same high levels. Faith of the Fallen, however, shows how powerful a fantasy novel can be. I've always liked the Sword of Truth series because it's very adult and doesn't insult my maturity to read it. It's brutal and often wrenching, but always with purpose (well, except that lame serial killer subplot in book 4...jeers for that!!). This -- the sixth book -- is something else, though.<br />The Imperial Order is poised to conquer the Midlands. With his beloved Kahlan close to death, Richard Rahl retreats into seclusion and is faced with an foreboding vision. A Sister of the Dark, Nicci, is determined to crush Richard's noble spirit. The plot is visceral and engaging, but it's definitely a footnote to the characters and their principles. It's the characters and power of human spirit that shine here. With this book, Terry Goodkind looks into the Imperial Order, to show us the true nature of the enemy that confronts our heroes. The Order is essentially a tyrannical theocratic/communist force, while the New World (the good guys) believe in liberty.<br />This dichotomy sets up the crux of the story: man's struggle for freedom in the face of tyranny, and the beauty of life. I don't want to give away any of the story for those who have fallen behind (like myself) and have not read this yet. (Reviewers -- or anyone -- spoiling a book should be a mortal sin!) But let's just say Goodkind gives us an acute understanding of the evil surrounding the Order. Through the story, the book looks negatively upon Communism (spiritually and economically) and the doctrine of Original Sin. Communists will not like this book...they will sneer at Goodkind's beliefs and probably throw the book in a fire. I love that Goodkind has brought forth a powerful philosophical element to his series, which gives the book resonance beyond its pages. I feel that reading this book has made my life just a little bit better.<br />It is unfortunate in fantasy literature that the \\"anti-hero\\" is on the rise. These are characters with few inspiring qualities...they are rather \\"ordinary\\" people, sometimes even possessing qualities we would consider downright immoral. Richard, on the other hand, causes me to reflect on the greatness in some people, and in life itself. He is strong, intelligent, brave, and compassionate, but undoubtedly...real. Some have complained that he's \\"too good.\\" Huh. It's a personal opinion, of course, but I am more drawn to a hero of integrity and principle than a morally \\"gray\\" character. And I agree with Richard's conviction: he calls for everyone to be set free. Give people the freedom to make their own decisions, to face the consequences of their own actions. Let people be rewarded for virtue, not punished. The Order believes exactly the opposite...subsidize the irresponsible and tax hard work and responsibility. With most of the Sword of Truth books, Richard's victory at the end more dependent on him using his mind to solve a problem than hacking people up with his sword (although that's pretty snazzy too). Without giving too much away, FotF has a similar finale, this time given a shot of artistry and moral philosophy.<br />Nicci is a great villain. Why is she great? Because I hated her. She doesn't desire anything as pedestrian as power or wealth, but she is more frightening precisely because she _doesn't_ want these things. She wishes only destroy, and the scary part of it is that she believes she is fulfilling her moral duty. From her perspective, the Imperial Order is a benevolent force that can save mankind and guide them to salvation. The dichotomy of her beliefs and Richard's makes for engaging interactions. The heated clashes of moral outlooks were more exciting than nearly any physical battle that drives theconflict in most fantasy literature. (There's still lots of bloody fighting though!)<br />Reading this book, it also hit me how attached I've become to Goodkind's heroes. If I wasn't so cold-hearted I may have cried when they faced defeat and loss, and I wanted to raise my fist into the air with their martial and philosophical victories.<br />For a fantasy series of unprecedented heroism and power, check out Sword of Truth by starting at the beginning (Wizard's First Rule). As for fans...if you haven't read this yet, what are you waiting for? I'm still kicking myself for getting to this book so long after it's release. I'm pathetic. Sword of Truth is one of my favorite series out there, mainly because its heroes are some of the most swell people in fiction. I don't often review fantasy books because I'm pretty lazy (and reviewing books is hard), but Faith of the Fallen impacted me so much it felt good to say something about it. I hope you like it.e conflict in most fantasy literature. (There's still lots of bloody fighting though!)<br />Reading this book, it also hit me how attached I've become to Goodkind's heroes. If I wasn't so cold-hearted I may have cried when they faced defeat and loss, and I wanted to raise my fist into the air with their martial and philosophical victories.<br />For a fantasy series of unprecedented heroism and power, check out Sword of Truth by starting at the beginning (Wizard's First Rule). As for fans...if you haven't read this yet, what are you waiting for? I'm still kicking myself for getting to this book so long after it's release. I'm pathetic. Sword of Truth is one of my favorite series out there, mainly because its heroes are some of the most swell people in fiction. I don't often review fantasy books because I'm pretty lazy (and reviewing books is hard), but Faith of the Fallen impacted me so much it felt good to say something about it. I hope you like it.	2002-02-26
US	50698858	R37HLMCZYDM7U9	0965119025	921157092	1-2-3 Be a Porn Star! A Step-By-Step Guide to the Adult Sex Industry	Books	5	8	16	N	N	It made my dream come true!	For years and years, I knew it was my calling in life to have hot sweaty sex in front of the camera... ever since I discovered my dad's porn collection in the basement and watched the classic film Hump Up the Volume!! I knew _I_ too could be like my favorite stars in Hump Up the Volume, but I wondered how I could get involved in this fascinating business. Then I bought this amazing book, 1-2-3 Be a Porn Star! and it gave me all the know-how I needed to get started. It helped me get a manager, a sex coach, and acting lessons (because I knew I had to be able to act at least as well as all those porn stars!). Now I am enjoying a lucrative career, and I owe it all to this great little book! It's a must-have!	2001-11-13
US	50698858	R3QZ0LLQ9E6HRS	0451191153	594264062	The Fountainhead	Books	5	10	12	N	N	A powerful artistic statement.	While I am by no means an objectivist, The Fountainhead is one of my favorite books. Why? Because its theme reflects and glorifies my deepest values of art.<br />This is the story about two architects. One, Howard Roark, is a brilliant yet radical artist who wishes to design buildings strictly to satisfy his own desire to create. His uncompromising and unusual designs get him kicked out of school, and he heads to New York to start a career. Roark is pensive man, impossibly confident, proud, and never sees himself or his work in relation to others. He judges himself strictly according to his own values. Truly an independent man. He endeavors to please no one but himself.<br />The other architect is Peter Keating. Keating is also a brilliant young man, but he lacks Roark's sense of assurance and individuality. Lacking self-confidence, he feeds on the flattery and can only exist on others' opinions. His designs are unoriginal menageries of past architectural conventions, and he must compromise artistic integrity for satisfying everyone else.<br />The book spends much of its time following these two men and their careers. Keating meets with easy success thanks to his mainstream designs that make everyone happy. Roark often struggles to find work with his atypical designs, and his refusal to accommodate the desires of the client makes things tricky. The Fountainhead's objective is to show why Roark is the hero and Keating is the \\"bad guy.\\" (There's other \\"bad guys\\" that come into the plot later with their own complexities, but let's keep the review simple.)<br />One problem is already evident. Architecture is largely comparable to any other business...it's about serving the customer. If someone wants a \\"lame\\" Greek- or Renaissance-style home, an architect isn't necessarily inferior as a person because he's trying to do good business.<br />But this book is not about architecture. To me, it's about a heroic artist. Architecture is just the vehicle with which Roark's story is told (Rand could have made Roark a musician, or something). In any case, The Fountainhead makes Rand's case (that man's ego generates the desire to create) in a striking manner. I think the ideas in this novel have tremendous impact, especially today.<br />...<br />You see, The Fountainhead, despite the faults of Ayn Rand's philosophy (more completely explored in Atlas Shrugged, another good book), is a powerful story because of its credo on art and some other themes that can be extrapolated through Roark. And Roark is a fantastic hero. Yes, in standard terms he's a self-absorbed sociopath (although he does get friends later), but he has many great qualities. He's honest, he knows what he wants, he's a genius, he's individualistic, and perfectly happy with himself. Is he the perfect man (as Rand would have it)? Probably not, but in The Fountainhead he's the perfect hero.<br />Many have faulted The Fountainhead for being a naive projection of ideals, for its unrealistically black and white characters, and didactic writing. The didactic thing bothered me -- later in the book there's parts where Rand loses that narrative objectivity and gets a bit pushy instead of just letting the character convey the ideas and letting the reader see things himself. But as for the romantic and black & white elements, I think those are part of makes the book so much more powerful. The message would have been suffocated by characters possessing a mix of good and bad qualities. With Roark being \\"white\\" and Keating and Ellsworth Toohey being unambiguously \\"black,\\" Rand makes her message remarkably powerful.<br />And I also think Rand's a great writer. She can get more out of a person's physical description than any author I've read, and the way she captures that lucid sense of greatness in Roark's buildings is pretty magnificent. As for Roark...I wouldn't want to be him, but he is a great hero. One that I'll never forget.is told (Rand could have made Roark a musician, or something). In any case, The Fountainhead makes Rand's case (that man's ego generates the desire to create) in a striking manner. I think the ideas in this novel have tremendous impact, especially today.<br />...<br />You see, The Fountainhead, despite the faults of Ayn Rand's philosophy (more completely explored in Atlas Shrugged, another good book), is a powerful story because of its credo on art and some other themes that can be extrapolated through Roark. And Roark is a fantastic hero. Yes, in standard terms he's a self-absorbed sociopath (although he does get friends later), but he has many great qualities. He's honest, he knows what he wants, he's a genius, he's individualistic, and perfectly happy with himself. Is he the perfect man (as Rand would have it)? Probably not, but in The Fountainhead he's the perfect hero.<br />Many have faulted The Fountainhead for being a naive projection of ideals, for its unrealistically black and white characters, and didactic writing. The didactic thing bothered me -- later in the book there's parts where Rand loses that narrative objectivity and gets a bit pushy instead of just letting the character convey the ideas and letting the reader see things himself. But as for the romantic and black & white elements, I think those are part of makes the book so much more powerful. The message would have been suffocated by characters possessing a mix of good and bad qualities. With Roark being \\"white\\" and Keating and Ellsworth Toohey being unambiguously \\"black,\\" Rand makes her message remarkably powerful.<br />And I also think Rand's a great writer. She can get more out of a person's physical description than any author I've read, and the way she captures that lucid sense of greatness in Roark's buildings is pretty magnificent. As for Roark...I wouldn't want to be him, but he is a great hero. One that I'll never forget.	2001-08-06
US	50698858	R30R3ZUKZTPIKA	0451163931	544774038	The Virtue of Selfishness: Fiftieth Anniversary Edition	Books	4	95	154	N	N	Interesting, flawed, worth reading.	I'm not a philosophical expert, but I find Rand's epistemology to be very bad, basically little more than a twisted version of nominalism. However, I stand by my former assertion that there are some compelling and interesting ideas present in the ethical facet of her philosophy that stand alone from the epistemological foundation. Because, quite frankly, Rand's epistemology is not good. (At this point, I direct objectivists to hit &quot;not helpful&quot; and skip the rest of the review, because they probably hate me already.)<br />Rand's basic claim is that man's life should be used as a moral criterion, and a moral life supplicates a rational means of elucidating information and identifying what is right and what is wrong. With this NEW concept of egoism, Rand and Nathaniel Brandon explain that MY happiness should be my most important goal, but not to satisfy my happiness with whims, cheap thrills, or hedonistic kicks. (Brandon's essay &quot;The Psychology of Pleasure&quot; does a good job illustrating what a rationally selfish man seeks to give him pleasure in the context of art, love, and productive work.)<br />The prima facie perspective suggests that this should be workable, and Rand's confident, florid prose (which I must confess I like) might sway you. But I became skeptical of her argument when she talks about the immortal being who can have no values because it is not alive, nothing is for or against it. I don't see why an immortal would be incapable of valuing anything, and Rand's argument doesn't flesh that out enough. Could not an immortal being still love and value things because they give her happiness? Or is an immortal being without the desire to be happy? Not that I know any immortals personally, but you know...<br />Still, I think the basic premise lends itself to some interesting ideas. Of course, I'm one of those hardcore libertarian folks who believe in individualism, responsibility, small government, and all those good things. Since Rand was in many ways the same, I find myself agreeing with her on many issues. And let's face it, we usually like reading stuff that reflect our own ideas. In this volume, there's a pair of great essays called &quot;Collectivized 'Rights'&quot; and &quot;Man's Rights&quot; that tie in pretty well with the libertarian mindset. Also great is the essay &quot;Racism,&quot; a brilliant, scathing attack on bigotry, although she takes it farther than you'd expect and writes some intuitive tidbits. Plus, I get a kick out of some of Rand's terms, like calling the USSR a &quot;slave pen&quot; and her use of &quot;goon squad&quot; in the last essay. Good stuff, hehe.<br />In my previous review of this book, I gave it 5 stars because I thought it was interesting. In this, my second review, I am deducting a star. Not because of my disagreement with the philosophy (although I DO disagree with a big chunk of it), but because I think this collection of essays misses a number of issues that, if they'd been addressed, may have given the ethical part of Rand's philosophy more credence. For instance, she doesn't accommodate much benevolence in this collection, but I think she could have worked it in. (She touches upon it with &quot;The Ethics of Emergencies,&quot; but it doesn't answer a number of questions.) There aren't many Howard Roarks and John Galts in the world...most people aren't perfect, and need to cooperate and help each other in order to succeed. However, one of Rand's most important points, I think, is that human relationships should exist without sacrifice. Every man is responsible for his own survival, and it is morally wrong to sacrifice yourself for someone unimportant to you, and equally immoral to expect someone else's sacrifice for your sake. This doesn't eliminate charity, though. You just shouldn't bring harm to yourself in order to help someone. Of course, you could deleteriously affect your own welfare to help someone, but it might not be a sacrifice depending on the circumstances. Say you could pay fifty million dollars to cure your wife of the ULTRA DEATH VIRUS OF DOOM (ominous, eh?). Doing so is not a sacrifice, since your wife should be more important than money, of course. I think a lot of Rand's critics missed points like this. It wasn't ALL about money.<br />Even though Rand's ideas about love and sex come through, uh, rough in her fiction, here it's very clear what she was trying to show (questionable though it was, at least in The Fountainhead...Atlas Shrugged was just consenting sex that was rough). She avers strongly that love is an entirely selfish thing....you don't just love some random person off the street as favor. You love someone that mirrors personal qualities that are important to you: intelligence, conviction, self-esteem, and morality, for instance. I strongly concur with her on this one, and Brandon writes a good essay about it in the aforementioned &quot;The Psychology of Pleasure.&quot;<br />I also think Rand's argument against bringing harm to others is too shallow. She deals with this in a part of the first essay, but doesn't get into it enough. This complaint isn't necessarily a problem with the philosophy itself, because Rand may have had good answers to this and other issues. But I think the book probably should have added more depth to this topic, as well as some others, but I'm not going to discuss them all.<br />I suggest that people read this book carefully, note to good bits of her ethics, identify the not-so-good bits, and keep it around for a laugh. She's so venomous about some issues that it gives me a chuckle. (That eyeball analogy is good stuff, hehe.) She also has some great arguments against the ethical basis for socialism.rcumstances. Say you could pay fifty million dollars to cure your wife of the ULTRA DEATH VIRUS OF DOOM (ominous, eh?). Doing so is not a sacrifice, since your wife should be more important than money, of course. I think a lot of Rand's critics missed points like this. It wasn't ALL about money.<br />Even though Rand's ideas about love and sex come through, uh, rough in her fiction, here it's very clear what she was trying to show (questionable though it was, at least in The Fountainhead...Atlas Shrugged was just consenting sex that was rough). She avers strongly that love is an entirely selfish thing....you don't just love some random person off the street as favor. You love someone that mirrors personal qualities that are important to you: intelligence, conviction, self-esteem, and morality, for instance. I strongly concur with her on this one, and Brandon writes a good essay about it in the aforementioned &quot;The Psychology of Pleasure.&quot;<br />I also think Rand's argument against bringing harm to others is too shallow. She deals with this in a part of the first essay, but doesn't get into it enough. This complaint isn't necessarily a problem with the philosophy itself, because Rand may have had good answers to this and other issues. But I think the book probably should have added more depth to this topic, as well as some others, but I'm not going to discuss them all.<br />I suggest that people read this book carefully, note to good bits of her ethics, identify the not-so-good bits, and keep it around for a laugh. She's so venomous about some issues that it gives me a chuckle. (That eyeball analogy is good stuff, hehe.) She also has some great arguments against the ethical basis for socialism.	2001-07-21
US	50698858	RVMC9JDAS4983	0226469360	629784239	The Stone Angel (Phoenix Fiction)	Books	1	9	15	N	N	Superlatives apply.	What I mean by this is that affixing the title of &quot;Worst book ever&quot; to The Stone Angel is not a stretch. I have read some truly bad novels in my time, but The Stone Angel is simply horrifying. Never has there been a more repulsive character than Hagar, a neurotic, arrogant, despicable old woman. The book is told in a series of intermittent flashbacks that seem pointless in conjunction with Hagar's current situation (which is that her family wants to put her in a nursing home).<br />At first I was mildly interested by the florid writing style, but the book soon made me numb (it actually caused me physical pain). The reason for this is that the main character of The Stone Angel's story is the most repulsive fictional creation I've ever beheld. Hagar's bloated idiocy renders her ineffably repellent after just a few chapters. Being 90 years old, her thoughts and dialogue are completely separated from reason, destroying any interest a person could have in the progress of the story. Her flashbacks further reinforce her overweening nature. I suppose this book has merit if you wish to enter the mind of a 90-year old arrogant woman whose logical faculties have been shattered, but who really wants to read about that? Sure it's believable (for which some reviews have credited it), but why on earth does anyone care about a cantankerous old hag with bowel problems? Talk about the ultimate anti-hero!<br />By the end of the novel, Hagar recognizes that she is a loathsome human being and attempts to reconcile that fact with herself. However, all throughout the book, there is no indication that this realization is flowering. All of a sudden, it just occurs spontaneously. This is both incredibly unrealistic and incredibly disappointing for a reader who has put up with the dross of this novel for 250 pages (give or take). Apparently Lawrence realized that her character was beyond hope so she endeavored to hammer in an epiphany that could justify her tedious banter that protracted the horrible, horrible book.<br />Some will surely argue that the book deserves stars for style and canny art sensibility. I disagree. Stylistic merit is only a virtue when anchored by a story and characters that don't sicken the person reading the book. It's times like this I wish Amazon had a 0-star rating, because that's what The Stone Angel deserves.racted the horrible, horrible book.<br />Some will surely argue that the book deserves stars for style and canny art sensibility. I disagree. Stylistic merit is only a virtue when anchored by a story and characters that don't sicken the person reading the book. It's times like this I wish Amazon had a 0-star rating, because that's what The Stone Angel deserves.	2001-04-10
US	50698858	R26MYUF9MPIBHS	0451163931	544774038	The Virtue of Selfishness: Fiftieth Anniversary Edition	Books	4	7	15	N	N	Selfishness a virtue, you say?	Here is the discourse on Ayn Rand's moral philosophy. On several issues she is clearly myopic. For example, her claim that no philosopher has tackled the question of _why_ man need ethics is obviously false. I can pull my old moral philosophy textbook out of its dusty box and name plenty. <br />But I won't get too critical of her book. Instead, let me explain what it's about. In more conventional terms, Rand's Objectivism -- in an ethical sense -- roughly corresponds to ethical egoism. She holds that selfishness is the ultimate good and altruism is the ultimate evil. Now, we all know she defines 'selfishness' and 'altruism' in very unconventional ways, but it's important to note that she was trying to establish new concepts of egoism, because the original theory isn't new. To her, selfishness is \\"concern for one's own interests.\\"; altruism is the act of sacrificing oneself (to whatever degree) for another. Of course, it probably seems strange to most people that altruism is not \\"concern for _another's_ interest,\\" but whatever. Her idea of benevolence is very similar to that of a psychological egoist, which obviously raises some problems.<br />After some epistemological talk, Rand goes on from this foundation to form right-wing libertarian ideas. According to Objectivist ethics, what should be the role of government? What does it mean to use force upon another? What is a society of free men? What are the rights of man? What kind of evil is racism? What does religion mean for the rational man? What is moral grayness? Most of it is pretty interesting, although some of the conclusions are obviously questionable. Her statist view of government -- where the State controls the use of force -- doesn't seem to gel with her premises, for instance. I really enjoy Nathaniel Branden's essay \\"The Psychology of Pleasure\\", which describes how the rational man would derive joy through work and art. <br />Rand's prose is aggressive and usually pretty entertaining. I myself am not anObjectivist and I think the philosophy is mostly pretty bad. On a normative level, I agree with her on many points, but I believe her metaethics are weak. Still, I like this little book. It's easy to read and a bit interesting.	2001-01-13
US	50698858	R3TNA7SY16DWIO	0451191145	604964480	Atlas Shrugged	Books	5	20	28	N	N	An inspiring proclamation of the power of the human spirit	Wow! There's a considerably divisive element permeating the reviews for this book. People either think it's a laughably bad philosophy novel (which I can understand, to an extent) or an indelible story of the inevitable triumph of the human spirit  through Ayn Rand's Objectivism philosophy. A lot of the reviews here seem to eschew examining the content of the book itself, and direct their comments towards the philosophy. I will not do this. I guess this is unavoidable, as the book faces the reader with several radical philosophical and political viewpoints that are bound to offend some people. But I'm going to do my best to keep my own ideas out of this. Whether or not I believe in Ayn Rand's philosophy is immaterial; I'm just hear to review the book under the parameters established for what it is - a novel.<br />Atlas Shrugged takes place sometime in the future (the exact year is unimportant) where most of the world's nations have adopted socialist political standpoints, with America standing as the last capitalist-oriented nation. However, as the book progresses, even America's economy is threatened, because the leading innovators and industrialists are disappearing. In fact, they are going on strike...a slightly fantastic premise, but crucial for the author to express her outlook on the world.<br />Even barring that fantastic element, the entire book is mostly unrealistic. Her characters are strictly black and white, either good (according to Rand's view) or evil (again, in Rand's view). Many people seem to regard this as one of the book's most consequential drawbacks. However, I actually see it as one of the book's greatest merits. Rand's characters aren't `characters' in the traditional sense; rather, they are symbols representing the gamut of elements in Rand's philosophy. For example, as a person Richard Halley the composer is not important, but what he represents is very much so (and that would be the integrity of intellectual art). The characters are not open-minded, because Rand's philosophy could not be denigrated by characteristic ambiguities. The antagonists, whom are largely the socialists, are similarly intolerant and obstinate, because they have to represent the evil in the world, again, without any equivocal elements. Rand clearly delineates the &quot;good&quot; and &quot;evil&quot; because it is imperative for her ultimate message.<br />Of course, some of the villains/socialists are represented very poorly - it's obvious that Ayn Rand held a very inimical view towards that perspective. A lot of them are whiny and absolutely incompetent. The others are better; they are represented as intelligent folks...but at the same time Rand conspicuously betrays the rationale behind their standpoint because it must be lucid as to who's right and who's wrong.<br />At times, Rand's philosophical banter can be overbearing. For instance, the MASSIVE speech near the book's conclusion where Rand's &quot;ideal man&quot; launches what seems to be every conceivable facet of the author's philosophy contained a few extraneous matters that were unnecessary (did it have to be sixty pages?). But at the same time, the discussions contained in this book are incredibly insightful and forces one to look at things from an all new perspective. It's completely understandable why this book is regarded as one of the century's most influential works. Whether or not you agree with some of the things that are said on its pages, you can't help but think about it. I would argue that the best books in history have been the ones that change the way we look at life.<br />The plot is suspenseful, and creates a sense of urgency that is usually associated with mystery novels or books heavy on violent physical confrontation. But core genus of this novel is the adjunctive philosophy. Now that I think about it (err, it's actually pretty obvious), this is really just a philosophy book with the pretension of being a novel. Either way, it's a good read, and it's one of those books that everyone needs to read at some point in their lives. Rand's idea of the ideal man is truly inspiring, and this book contains many of the most powerful passages I've ever read. You might love it, you might think it's the worst book ever written, but it WILL change you. I'm confident of that.'s one of those books that everyone needs to read at some point in their lives. Rand's idea of the ideal man is truly inspiring, and this book contains many of the most powerful passages I've ever read. You might love it, you might think it's the worst book ever written, but it WILL change you. I'm confident of that.	2000-11-21
US	50698858	R3HTN9KCLF7ZT	0786916575	501237295	Servant of the Shard (Forgotten Realms:  Paths of Darkness, Book 3)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Another excellent Salvatore book.	RA Salvatore's Forgotten Realms books have been evolving considerably for quite some time now. His main characters have always been strong and they've carried the novels well. However, the focus on characters became much stronger with his recent series of books (The Silent Blade, The Spine of the World). Yes, they had the vivid battle scenes that had made RA Salvatore the best battle choreographer (for lack of a better title) in fantasy literature, but they deviated from the combat heavy approach and began to examine the characters more deeply. In The Silent Blade, the inner turmoil of Wulfgar overshadowed the tired conflict between Entreri and Drizzt. In The Spine of the World, Wulfgar was fleshed out more, and it was his road to redemption that elicited tension, not the battles.<br />The Servant of the Shard, Salvatore continues to flesh out his characters, this time exposing new sides of Jarlaxle and Entreri. The focus here is certainly Entreri, and Salvatore expands this villain...something that was desperately needed. Entreri was always an interesting antagonist, mainly because he was such an excellent opponent for Drizzt. While Entreri is always portrayed in an interesting way, but his typical solitary manner and egotistical attitude causes the word &quot;archetype&quot; to come to many readers' minds.<br />And it's true, Entreri is an archetype. And sure, we loved when he fought Drizzt (those battles made for some of the most intense physical confrontations in any books I've ever read). But many readers, myself included, felt it hard to stretch ourselves to believe that the drawn-out contest with Drizzt was believable. Entreri's foundation in the story was basically based on his need to best Drizzt in combat. Since that was pretty much it, was such a character really fleshed-out enough to drive an entire story?<br />The answer is yes and no. In Servant of the Shard, Entreri does transcend his staple character status and become character that is more real and believable. However, I found many of Entreri's developments a little too abrupt. It felt that, for some cases, Salvatore didn't develop certain ideas fully. Most work well, but some don't. Since this book is largely focused on Entreri, this hurts the overall story.<br />The plot here focuses on Bregan D'aerthe (damn, how do you spell that?) expanding its control in Calimport. They are headed by Jarlaxle, now in possession of the Crystal Shard. The artifact's influence feeds the mercenary leader with reckless ambitions that cause Bregan D'aerthe to turn against him. Entreri saves Jarlaxle from his usurpers and they seek Cadderly's help in destroying the relic.<br />The ending is slightly anti-climactic (it's exciting, but nowhere near finales like his Legacy of the Drow novels). One of the problems is that the means to destroy the Crystal Shard is so simple! It's enough to create a good ending, but I was expecting something is little more grandiose (this is an artifact, afterall).<br />It may sound like I'm ragging on this book, but I don't want that to be the case. The story line is good, but the real star is Entreri. He's where my interest was fixed. As you near the end of the book, you begin to learn new things about him, but it's clear that Salvatore was holding back on all the details...which means there will probably be yet another addition to Entreri's story.<br />Finally, in 2001 guess what will be released? &quot;Sea of Swords&quot;, Salvatore's next FR book. And who's looking for something on the Sea of Swords...huh, huh? Wulfgar! Any Drizzt/Salvatore fan should be tantalized by that little bit of info...I certainly was.believable. However, I found many of Entreri's developments a little too abrupt. It felt that, for some cases, Salvatore didn't develop certain ideas fully. Most work well, but some don't. Since this book is largely focused on Entreri, this hurts the overall story.<br />The plot here focuses on Bregan D'aerthe (damn, how do you spell that?) expanding its control in Calimport. They are headed by Jarlaxle, now in possession of the Crystal Shard. The artifact's influence feeds the mercenary leader with reckless ambitions that cause Bregan D'aerthe to turn against him. Entreri saves Jarlaxle from his usurpers and they seek Cadderly's help in destroying the relic.<br />The ending is slightly anti-climactic (it's exciting, but nowhere near finales like his Legacy of the Drow novels). One of the problems is that the means to destroy the Crystal Shard is so simple! It's enough to create a good ending, but I was expecting something is little more grandiose (this is an artifact, afterall).<br />It may sound like I'm ragging on this book, but I don't want that to be the case. The story line is good, but the real star is Entreri. He's where my interest was fixed. As you near the end of the book, you begin to learn new things about him, but it's clear that Salvatore was holding back on all the details...which means there will probably be yet another addition to Entreri's story.<br />Finally, in 2001 guess what will be released? &quot;Sea of Swords&quot;, Salvatore's next FR book. And who's looking for something on the Sea of Swords...huh, huh? Wulfgar! Any Drizzt/Salvatore fan should be tantalized by that little bit of info...I certainly was.	2000-11-08
US	50698858	R3KNNQJUAQLD7S	0786915579	432976816	Icewind Dale Trilogy: Collector's Edition (Forgotten Realms: the Icewind Dale Trilogy)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A classic	The Icewind Dale Trilogy garnered a considerable amount of acclaim from fantasy literature enthusiasts for good reason: the characters and the battle scenes. All of the characters are overblown fantasy archetypes (big strong barbarian, noble ranger, dwarf with a stern demeanor but a tender heart, heartless assassin), but they are presented in such a surreally likable manner that it's impossible not to become attached to them -- especially Drizzt, Salvatore's most popular hero. The story lines are standard fantasy fare, but the characters sustain the reader's interest....as do the densely packed battles. Salvatore's battle choreography and exciting writing style turn mundane encounters into exciting confrontations, and pivotal battles into thrilling, mind-blowing fights. <br />The Icewind Dale Trilogy is not my favorite of Salvatore's Drizzt books, but it's a good start to a legendary hero's saga. This hardcover edition is a good buy, with Drizzt's provacative essays (which start each part) having been added to this edition. Typos are prevalent. This is unprofessional and sloppy, but I think it's been overblown by the other reviews...it's really not too big a deal.	2000-10-30
US	50698858	R36Q8MEOK8UHD0	0786915579	432976816	Icewind Dale Trilogy: Collector's Edition (Forgotten Realms: the Icewind Dale Trilogy)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A classic	The Icewind Dale Trilogy garnered a considerable amount of acclaim from fantasy literature enthusiasts for good reason: the characters and the battle scenes. All of the characters are overblown fantasy archetypes (big strong barbarian, noble ranger, dwarf with a stern demeanor but a tender heart, heartless assassin), but they are presented in such a surreally likable manner that it's impossible not to become attached to them -- especially Drizzt, Salvatore's most popular hero. The story lines are standard fantasy fare, but the characters sustain the reader's interest....as do the densely packed battles. Salvatore's battle choreography and exciting writing style turn mundane encounters into exciting confrontations, and pivotal battles into thrilling, mind-blowing fights.<br />The Icewind Dale Trilogy is not my favorite of Salvatore's Drizzt books, but it's a good start to a legendary hero's saga. This hardcover edition is a good buy, with Drizzt's provacative essays (which start each part) having been added to this edition. Typos are prevalent. This is unprofessional and sloppy, but I think it's been overblown by the other reviews...it's really not too big a deal.	2000-10-30
