US	50708794	R2VT05QFHKRS2S	0743235355	730119057	Jarhead: A Marine's Chronicle of the Gulf War and Other Battles	Books	5	5	14	N	N	People have a hard time with truth	It's funny how in this day and age people have a real hard time dealing with the truth. They want their stories sugar-coated. They want their U.S. military personnel pristine, virtuous, devoid of vice. Well, sorry folks. \\"Leave it to Beaver\\" was not an accurate depiction of the world any more than \\"Gomer Pyle\\" was an accurate depiction of the Marine Corps.<br /><br />Anthony Swofford's account of his life experience and time in the corps is honest, brutally so in fact. He spares no details in his account of the corps, its methods of creating killers and its lack of illusion regarding its purposes. The marines are young, juvenile, often lascivious, desiring combat but often fearful and despairing once they're in the thick of it.<br /><br />Swofford's account of the Gulf War provides a close-up of what we all saw on the news during this frightening time for the world. The apprehension leading up to Desert Storm. The overwhelming might of U.S. military power. The slagged Iraqi tanks and trucks and bodies after it had begun. Swofford's view is from the ground. We get a real sense of the \\"fog of war.\\" He and his unit survive enemy fire and endure friendly fire from U.S. tanks that hours before had been in formation with them. They see the charred bodies of Iraqi soldiers and Swofford imagines what they might have been doing, empathizing with them. The stink of the bodies and the surreal world of the ground war are elaborately described from the grunt marine's point of view.<br /><br />Much of the book describes Swofford's upbringing in a military family. The values he was raised with and how it formed him into the man he becomes. It's not what you'd expect. It's filled with poignancy, regret, and as Swofford relates, \\"despair.\\" Yet he survives and grows from the experience. War has shaped and in some ways twisted his family into a dysfunctional unit. His father's experiences building landing strips in Vietname for the Air Force are prelude to the son's tour of duty in Saudi Arabia and Kuwait.<br /><br />While this book may be hard to stomach for people who have a delusional view of life in the military, it is truth. And what more can we ask for than the truth?While this book may be hard to stomach for people who have a delusional view of life in the military, it is truth. And what more can we ask for than the truth?	2004-10-29
US	50708794	R38GUPJD6V8J3N	0393324818	346106080	Moneyball: The Art of Winning an Unfair Game	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Thinking outside the box	Michael Lewis deftly inserted himself into the A's front office to find out how a professional baseball team with a $40 million payroll can win 102 games and consistently 90 or more wins in subsequent years and compete with teams like the New York Yankees who have payrolls exceeding $130 million.<br />What he reveals is that by approaching baseball in a more rational, analytical way and doing away with all the traditional conventions, you can compete with anyone who doesn't do the same. Too many GMs and coaches are seduced by speed, home runs, and batters who swing at bad pitches when the simple truth of it is that in baseball the most precious thing you have are your three outs per inning. Anything that risks losing one or more of those outs is something you should avoid. As a long-time fan of the game, it's hard for me to swallow some of the anti-traditional things Lewis describes in this book. But the proof is in the pudding as they say and the A's success over the past several years is hard to argue with.<br />The focus of the book is A's GM Billy Beane, a former A's player himself who had a world of talent but could not transform that talent into a Hall of Fame career. He didn't have certain intangibles that are needed. Beane now recognizes those talents in the players he drafts, recruits and trades for. Beane's obsessive personality and unorthdox ways make for interesting reading. He's a man who seems horribly tortured by the game and yet thrives on his success in the game as well.<br />There are excellent mini-biographies in the book including one on A's first baseman, Scott Hatteberg, a Red Sox catcher who was thought all but done with baseball after he ruptured a nerve in his throwing arm. The A's reclamation project recognized a diamond in the rough and brought him aboard to train him as a first baseman, mostly so they could benefit from Hattie's shrewd batting.<br />Chad Bradford, the A's middle relief pitcher with the unorthodox pitching style and uncanny ability to get outs, is also profiled. A's minor league phenom Jeremy Brown, a former University of Alabama catcher who broke all sorts of NCAA records but wouldn't get a look from most pro teams, is also profiled. You get the sense from this book that there IS no traditional upbringing for a pro baseball player. The A's unusual collection of &quot;misfits&quot; all came from different backgrounds and most have taken a rather odd path to success.<br />This book is a great insiders look at a pro baseball team and how they approach the game from a very unique perspective. The most fascinating thing of it is, the A's didn't invent what they're doing at all. They're exploiting baseball wisdom that was anyone's for the taking for the past 30 years. You just need to know where to look.<br />If you're a baseball fan or just someone who can appreciate creativity and ingenuity in a world that promotes imitation, you'll enjoy this book.y ability to get outs, is also profiled. A's minor league phenom Jeremy Brown, a former University of Alabama catcher who broke all sorts of NCAA records but wouldn't get a look from most pro teams, is also profiled. You get the sense from this book that there IS no traditional upbringing for a pro baseball player. The A's unusual collection of &quot;misfits&quot; all came from different backgrounds and most have taken a rather odd path to success.<br />This book is a great insiders look at a pro baseball team and how they approach the game from a very unique perspective. The most fascinating thing of it is, the A's didn't invent what they're doing at all. They're exploiting baseball wisdom that was anyone's for the taking for the past 30 years. You just need to know where to look.<br />If you're a baseball fan or just someone who can appreciate creativity and ingenuity in a world that promotes imitation, you'll enjoy this book.	2004-07-19
US	50708794	R1ODE1XG2UO0QV	0785112243	168885406	Supreme Power Vol. 1: Contact	Books	5	105	110	N	N	Turning the super-hero icons on their heads	The original Squadron Supreme, invented by Avengers writer Roy Thomas in the 60's, was intended to be a pastiche of the Justice League of America. Each character in Marvel Comics' Squadron Supreme was an analog of DC Comics' Justice League characters. Hyperion is the analog of Superman, Nighthawk of Batman, Power Princess of Wonder Woman, etc. The main point of the exercise was to enable Marvel's greatest team to do battle with DC's without flouting any copyright laws and to have a little fun with the fans.<br />J. Michael Straczynski's Supreme Power is also a look at the super-hero icons of DC but through a different colored glass. Supreme Power examines how events might really unfold were DC's heroes to have appeared in our world. An alien infant lands on Earth, exhibiting extraordinary powers. Military and political officials fear him, so they seek to control him. A youth sees his parents slain before his eyes and so becomes a vigilante, stalking the streets at night hunting criminals. Another man develops the ability to travel as super speed and so on.<br />The story starts from the point of view of protagonist, Mark Milton (a.k.a., Hyperion), an alien who crashes on Earth as an infant and whose power the military establishment both fears and hopes to exploit. They fill his head with American propaganda in the hope that they'll brainwash him into the Great American Hero: truth, justice and the American way. But when he matures, he becomes wary of their control and suspicious of their motives. As the story branches out, we're introduced to the other cast members, each of them with their own reasons for becoming a &quot;hero&quot; and many of them not so pure.<br />In DC's somewhat utopian world, these heroes are revered and honored for the most part. But a more cynical view would be that it wouldn't quite be that simple. We have a tendency to revere and revile our heroes at the same time. While we admire and honor them, we also seek to tear them down and destroy them out of fear, jealousy and other base emotions. The story is as old as time. Just ask Julius Caesar how we treat our honored heroes. Look at the heroes of Ancient Greece and the rather unseemly way so many of them fell from grace.<br />Supreme Power is an exciting, page-turning look at heroism and just what the world at large really thinks about having someone who could save your life one day or vaporize you with a glance in the next. In the tradition of DC's Watchmen and The Dark Knight Returns, Supreme Power takes a smart and decidedly adult look at hero and super-hero.them out of fear, jealousy and other base emotions. The story is as old as time. Just ask Julius Caesar how we treat our honored heroes. Look at the heroes of Ancient Greece and the rather unseemly way so many of them fell from grace.<br />Supreme Power is an exciting, page-turning look at heroism and just what the world at large really thinks about having someone who could save your life one day or vaporize you with a glance in the next. In the tradition of DC's Watchmen and The Dark Knight Returns, Supreme Power takes a smart and decidedly adult look at hero and super-hero.	2004-05-11
US	50708794	R2UR5SP0PQK2IB	1401202012	550759506	Y: The Last Man, Vol. 3: One Small Step	Books	5	17	19	N	N	No drop-off in quality from the first two volumes	&quot;One Small Step,&quot; the third volume of Y: The Last Man loses no momentum from the previous two volumes, &quot;Unmanned&quot; and &quot;Cycles.&quot; In fact, I'd say it picks up steam. Now that I've become accustomed to the characters, I care more about them and find their perilous adventures more gripping than ever.<br />&quot;One Small Step&quot; contains two stories, the primary one being the title story. Yorick, Agent 355 and Dr. Mann travel through Missouri to Kansas and seek to help two more potential male survivors of the plaque to arrive safely on Earth from orbit. All males of all species on Earth died in the plague, but it didn't extend to those males OFF the planet. The International Space Station houses two male and one female astronaut, all of whom are dangerously close to suffocating in the failing life support of the station. They have to evacuate the station and find out whether they can survive now that several months have gone by since the plague.<br />Thrown into the mix are the Israeli soldiers, led by their stoic Colonel, whose motives have been unclear until this story. Suffice it to say that old scores die hard.<br />Brian Vaughn builds the tension slowly with several events threatening to collide explosively. The violent colonel, an endangered Yorick, and the fate of the astronauts all hangs in the balance. I found myself flying through the climactic pages of this story, eager to find out what was going to happen.<br />You really have to read the first two volumes before you move on to this one. There's too much back story you'll miss. But it's worth the time. This is one of the best comics to come out in the past several years and is not to be missed!	2004-04-22
US	50708794	R1AMMCTOVBC0TL	1401200761	151032721	Y: The Last Man, Vol. 2: Cycles	Books	4	14	14	N	N	The journey begins	In this, the second volume of Y: The Last Man, Yorick, Dr. Mann and 355 begin to make their way across the U.S. to reach California and a research facility that may have clues about the plague. They're sidetracked after they're forced to \\"disembark\\" a train in the midwest.<br />What follows is a little more \\"Twilight Zone\\" than \\"Omega Man\\" and that's a good thing. Writer Brian Vaughan shows us he can switch gears and tell a different type of story without derailing the main plotline. The town of Marrisville, Ohio has a secret and Yorick and his motley crew are unwittingly caught up in it when the denizens of the town help them out. Marrisville's residents have a dark past which has been partially exorcised by the plague that killed all men...or has it?<br />Yorick's sister, Hero, and her Amazon sisters aren't far behind, another plotline that comes to a head in this installment of Y.<br />This story's not as strong as \\"Y: The Last Man--Unmanned,\\" but it does a good job of continuing the story presented in the first installment and clarifying some of the themes that will apparently dominate this series.<br />Yorick is very much an \\"innocent abroad,\\" not just a sole survivor but also an outcast, a pariah, and maybe an unlikely savior. \\"Cycles\\" was entertaining and thought provoking and I look forward to the next volume in the series, \\"One Small Step,\\" due out in March 2004. The title should give you some clue as to what the story's about. Hmm. What goes up, orbits the Earth and must eventually come down?	2003-11-30
US	50708794	R1BSCJ38OC94S	1563899809	209291533	Y: The Last Man, Vol. 1: Unmanned	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Best new series of 2002-3	Y, the Last Man really caught me off guard. The premise was interesting enough: a global plague kills all men but one. But could the creative team deliver on this premise? The answer is a resounding yes.<br />Brian Vaughn gives us a story part post-Apocalyptic sci-fi, part sociological discourse, and part road story, all wrapped up into one. His lead character, Yorick Brown, is an everyman. Nothing special about him other than that he's an adept escape artist. Other than that, he's your typical, semi-motivated twentysomething who was just trying to get by like most of us. Now he's the sole survivor of the entire male population (along with his pet monkey) and a political pawn that the now female-controlled world wants to either kill, study or use to propogate the species. And all the while, all Yorick really wants to do is find his girlfriend who's in Australia!<br />Artist, Pia Guerra, has a straightforward style and excellent storytelling skills. She reminds me a lot of Dave Gibbons of Watchmen fame, which is a high compliment.<br />Y, the Last Man: Unmanned has interesting characters and a page-turning story that just won't let you go! If you like post-Apocalyptic stories like Planet of the Apes, Logan's Run, Omega Man or Road Warrior, you'll love this book. I look forward to future volumes of this series.	2003-06-05
US	50708794	RHBYO2JTRD7Y1	0440222451	915649406	Immediate Action: The Explosive True Story of the Toughest--and Most Highly Secretive--Strike Forc e in the World	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Interesting read, but not as informative as I'd've liked	For Andy McNab's best work, read BRAVO TWO ZERO, the harrowing account of McNab's duty in Iraq and unfortunate capture by Iraqi forces during Gulf War I. You get a much more detailed account of what's involved in planning and executing a mission in the SAS, and the story is much more involving.<br />Still, IMMEDIATE ACTION is a good read and clears up a lot of the details about special forces duty that civilians like myself might have. While the book sells itself as divulging information that the British government wanted to \\"suppress,\\" I found myself asking more questions. I think McNab holds back quite a bit. I can't fault him. I'm sure a lot of the information he withholds is crucial to the national security of Britain and for honor's sake alone, had to remain secret.<br />You get a real good idea what kind of duty the SAS has been involved with for the past three decades. From IRA suppression in Northern Ireland, to South Africa, Belize and drug cartel suppression in Colombia, the SAS really gets around. And the variation of the missions is impressive. The SAS trains its troops to be able to handle all sorts of duty, from surveillance, to assault, to training the forces of other countries, the SAS does it all. The final mission described in the book, in Colombia, is the most fascinating and approaches the level of detail that I wanted to see in the entire book.<br />A good, informative read, but often lacking in the level of detail that I would really like to see.	2003-04-13
US	50708794	R49ZUQNBKEE82	0823016285	791008544	The Artist's Complete Guide to Facial Expression	Books	5	57	57	N	N	Excellent reference for the pro and amateur alike	I got this book to develop more range as an illustrator and I'm very pleased with the quantity of examples, depth of instruction, and quality of the material.<br />This book contains detailed information on how to draw all the structures of the face and helps the reader to develop the ability not just to draw various facial expressions, but to understand the physiological occurrences that create different expressions. As any student of life drawing or anatomy knows, it's good to know what the engine underneath the hood is doing to get the exterior right!<br />The author painstaking guides you through the process of drawing the major facial features, starting simply with the gross structures and paring down to a high level of detail.<br />This book is a valuable addition to my collection of illustration books and I would recommend it to any illustrator, would-be illustrator, or casual artist who wants to develop her or his skills.	2002-04-30
US	50708794	RJCNJN2U8CV20	0785108297	363614541	Black Panther: Enemy Of The State TPB	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Graphic thrill ride	Black Panther: Enemy of the State continues the story that began in the Black Panther: The Client TPB and collects issue #6-12 of the monthly series by Marvel Comics.<br />The Panther (a.k.a., T'Challa, king of the African nation of Wakanda) has discovered that while he was away from his homeland, he has become the victim of a coup. The madman, Achebe, has taken over, apparently with the help of the Panther's own stepmother. In the meantime, T'Challa must deal with assassination attempts, dirty CIA deals and the interference of his former teammates, the superpowered Avengers.<br />Christopher Priest's Black Panther is always one step ahead of his enemies. He's acutely aware of his opponents' motives and always seems to be prepared for any contingency. With the continuing (and often hilarious) narration of State Department liaison and Panther-friend, Everett Ross, we're taken on a wild ride as the Panther faces down his enemies one by one and battles to reclaim his lost throne.<br />The first few chapters are beautifully painted by the famed Joe Jusko and the last amicably illustrated by animation wiz Mike Manley and long-time comics veteran, M.D. Bright.<br />Black Panther: Enemy of the State is comics with brains, not just brawn. You won't be sorry you picked it up! This is hopefully just the second in a long line of future Panther trade paperbacks.	2002-03-15
US	50708794	R3JNDF1YBYMWZ9	0871137836	323802732	Killing Pablo: The Hunt for the World's Greatest Outlaw	Books	4	5	6	N	N	You can't beat supply and demand	Mark Bowden's Killing Pablo tells the appalling tale of Columbian druglord, Pablo Escobar, the infamies he perpetrated on the Columbian government, and his rise and fall from power.<br />Escobar and his soulless sicarios killed hundreds of government officials, police, soldiers and innocent civilians with assassination and bombing campaigns. Perhaps his biggest crime of all was his pride and egocentrism. Escobar had fully convinced himself and those in his employ that he was a hero of the people, using a great deal of his drug money to support Colombia's impoverished masses in an effort to subvert the government.<br />The United States became involved in the effort to remove Escobar and his ilk during the 1980s. Killing Pablo also tells the story of Centra Spike, the CIA, Delta Force, the DEA and other U.S. agencies that took part in the manhunt and the dangerous line they tread to maintain the depth of their involvement.<br />You can't help but admire the bravery of the Columbian citizens who stood up against Escobar despite the daily threats on their lives: President Gaviria, Eduardo Mendoza, Col. Hugo Martinez, and many other intractable Columbians who wouldn't sell their souls to the narco kings.<br />Despite their victory over Escobar, you can't help but feel that little has changed in Columbia. Just the faces are different. The export of cocaine was little affected by the removal of the narcos who took power in the 70s and made billions selling cocaine to insatiable American narcotics consumers. While I found the narcos themselves to be barbaric and reprehensible, I feel shame that so many Americans make it possible for this type of criminal to exist because of their addiction to illegal drugs.<br />Killing Pablo is an eye opener. That a fragile democracy like Colombia's was able to survive the ordeal that Escobar and the other narcos put it through is a testament to democracy and the resiliency of the Colombian government. In the end, they got their man, but as many of Bowden's interviewees observed, you have to wonder how much of the country's soul was sold to get the job done.<br />Mark Bowden is an excellent investigative reporter and writes a terrific narrative. His Black Hawk Down, just recently made into a movie, was even better but both books are amazing journalistic works, showing us a side of the world that's unpleasant, but hard to look away from, too.as many of Bowden's interviewees observed, you have to wonder how much of the country's soul was sold to get the job done. <br />Mark Bowden is an excellent investigative reporter and writes a terrific narrative. His Black Hawk Down, just recently made into a movie, was even better but both books are amazing journalistic works, showing us a side of the world that's unpleasant, but hard to look away from, too.	2002-01-01
US	50708794	R2BF7PP7LX3IZ8	0393020088	561667173	The Battle of Britain: The Myth and the Reality	Books	3	4	6	N	N	A tad dry, but dispels the myths nonetheless	I found The Battle of Britain: The Myth and the Reality to be a good, detailed overview of the events that transpired in Britain from August-October, 1941.<br />What the book lacks is much in the way of personal details. The pilots who served in the RAF, and the challenge they faced, aren't covered in much detail. Rather, we're given statistics about how many were shot down during such and such a time and how many planes Britain was able to produce during the conflict.<br />The author, Richard Overy, makes it quite clear, however, that he's not attempting to tell the comprehensive story of the Battle. Rather, he simply wants to dispel the myths surrounding this battle. &quot;The few&quot; to whom Winston Churchill attributed so much national gratitude, were actually fairly evenly matched with their enemy, the Nazi Luftwaffe. Overy doesn't dispel the notion that the British defense of their homeland was any less valiant, but he does make certain to point out discrepancies between the reality and the mythical proportions that the Battle of Britain have acquired in the years since the Blitz.<br />In summary, if you're looking for a good, honest description of the Battle of Britain, this book will meet your needs. For a more detailed description of the events and people involved, you will have to find a more comprehensive book.	2001-12-07
US	50708794	R2NFSSRBA1DWAZ	0785107568	340890692	Avengers Legends, Vol. 1 - Avengers Forever	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Dense with Marvel history, but an awesome read nonetheless	AVENGERS FOREVER can be a little daunting for the uninitiated. The modern Marvel Universe dates back to the 1961 release of FANTASTIC FOUR #1. Since then, thousands of monthly Marvel comics have painted an epic tableau of colorful heroes, villains and settings. AVENGERS FOREVER writer Kurt Busiek and artist Carlos Pacheco delve into this tableau without apology, digging out all kinds of obscure Marvel historical factoids, obscure characters and events.<br />The result is one heck of an awesome story. Seven time-lost members of the Marvel super team, the Avengers, are called upon to save history as they know it. Their old adversaries, Kang and Immortus (the same guy from two different periods in his life--told you it was dense!) are seeking to manipulate history to their ends, Immortus by killing Rick Jones, a normal human who has long been associated with the Avengers and who poses a threat to Immortus' plans.<br />The Avengers chosen for the mission are an eclectic group. Two from the present of the team (Giant Man and Wasp), three from the past (Yellowjacket, a weary Captain America taken from a pivotal point in his career, and Hawkeye) and two from the future (Captain Marvel and Songbird).<br />The heroes embark on a long journey through time to several crucial moments in Marvel and Avengers history. To the Old West, where they meet several of Marvel's long-forgotten western heroes. To a post-apocalyptic future where they meet a band of freedom fighters (led by an old, wise Black Panther and the brash Killraven, hero of an obscure 70's sci-fi comic series) battling an alien invasion. To the 50's in the McCarthy era. To the distant future. Ultimately the Avengers must do battle with a group of enigmatic beings who have made a judgment that flies directly in the face of the Avengers' very reason for existing.<br />It's a great story that I think any fan of comics would enjoy tremendously. I know a lot about Marvel history, but I'm no completist. Even though I'm not a walking Marvel Encyclopaedia, I still enjoyed this story tremendously. It's one of the best comic series of the past several years and not to be missed. If you enjoy epic tales and quests with the exploits of heroes and diabolical villains, AVENGERS FOREVER is the book for you.a walking Marvel Encyclopaedia, I still enjoyed this story tremendously. It's one of the best comic series of the past several years and not to be missed. If you enjoy epic tales and quests with the exploits of heroes and diabolical villains, AVENGERS FOREVER is the book for you.	2001-11-08
US	50708794	R1IFWC43W64JUL	0785107894	548413040	Black Panther Vol. 1: The Client	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Among the best modern comic series	Writer Christopher Priest takes the super hero comic and turns it on its head in his landmark BLACK PANTHER series. This volume collects the first five issues of the current monthly comic.<br />The Black Panther is the king of the fictional African nation, Wakanda. Wakanda's claim to fame is that it is the world's sole source of vibranium, the most rare and valuable metal on Earth due to its ability to absorb sound. Occupying the space between the proverbial rock and hard place, the Black Panther, a.k.a., T'Challa, is a crafty leader who is always 10 steps ahead of all his would-be detractors, assassins and infiltrators.<br />&quot;The Client&quot; tells the story of the Panther's arrival in New York City to investigate the murder of a little girl who was the beneficiary of a Wakandan charity. It turns out that the Panther's enemies sought to lure him away from his wealthy nation with this heinous ploy. From there the mystery unravels with the Panther as the protagonist, and the narrator, Everett Ross, a U.S. foreign affairs agent who draws the unlucky task of escorting the Panther during his stay here. Ross is plucky, sarcastic and downright funny. His narration keeps the book light even though the themes are often very dark.<br />Priest uses out-of-sequence storytelling to simulate Ross' narrative, much in the manner that the film, Pulp Fiction, is told. It makes sense. After all, when we tell stories, it's very rare that we tell them in a linear fashion from start to finish. Ross bounds from one snippet to another. The reader puts the story together in the process.<br />I highly recommend this story and consider it one of the very best comic stories of the last five years. If you enjoy it, as I think you will, look for the sequel, BLACK PANTHER: ENEMY OF THE STATE, which should be coming out in November 2001.	2001-09-29
US	50708794	R3B85G3KU3AGVZ	1563895234	437072254	Nightwing Vol. 2: Rough Justice	Books	5	12	13	N	N	The continuing saga of Dick Grayson	NIGHTWING: ROUGH JUSTICE kicks off the second collection of DC Comics' NIGHTWING series with a bang, a wild, hallucinatory ride through Nightwing's mind as the Scarecrow tries to use his fear toxins to unhinge the super hero. It continues with the same, high-energy, Hong Kong action flick style that makes this comic so great.<br />But that's not all! What really makes the Nightwing series tick, and ROUGH JUSTICE is as good at it as any of the Nightwing collections, is the characterization. The relationship Nightwing has with Batman, Barbara Gordon and the others in his life is the glue that keeps the series together.<br />There are so many wonderful story elements in this volume that the best recommendation I can give you is to buy it and find out for yourself! If you love super hero comics and wild, over-the-top action, illustrated by the best in the comics biz, you'll love NIGHTWING: ROUGH JUSTICE. It's a great sequel to the first book in the series, NIGHTWING: A KNIGHT IN BLUDHAVEN, and reads like a complete collection of short stories. Don't miss it!	2001-06-03
US	50708794	R3DWHEGGR7PLLI	078510786X	100183737	Ultimate Spider-Man Vol. 1: Power and Responsibility	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Spider-Man Revisited	Writer Brian Michael Bendis set out to reinvent and reinvigorate Marvel's hallowed Spider-Man franchise in this landmark series. Judging from the critical acclaim and market success it's had, I'd say he met his goal.<br />Spider-Man was originally created in 1963 and while his origin story is a comic book classic, let's just say some of the elements within the story have become somewhat dated. Bendis' rehash of Spidey's origin sets him in modern times, with the look of a modern 15-year-old, and the characters speaking in...you guessed it...modern dialogue.<br />Bendis has done a fine job of updating the character and doesn't give in to the temptation to pace the story too quickly. He takes his time, building up the characters and the story of how Peter Parker is bitten by a radioactive spider and subsequently given super powers.<br />Mark Bagley competently, though not spectacularly, illustrates the story. Bagley's artistic storytelling skills are excellent, but I think Marvel might have been better served had they gone with a less traditional artistic style on this book.<br />ULTIMATE SPIDER-MAN: POWER AND RESPONSIBILITY is a great new beginning for Spider-Man and appeals to fans of all ages.	2001-05-18
US	50708794	R24KRA7J2IZUOR	0785107169	337731281	Spider-Man: The Death of Gwen Stacy	Books	5	9	10	N	N	One of the most poignant tales in comic book history	I had never owned any of the original issues in this collection (AMAZING SPIDER-MAN #96-98 and 121-122), but I knew the story of Gwen Stacy's death. Gwen was the girlfriend of Spider-Man's alter ego, Peter Parker and had been a staple of this series since the mid-60's.<br />When writer Gerry Conway determined that he would kill her off, his intent was to show that in the life of a costumed adventurer like Spider-Man, nothing was certain. He felt that the readers needed a shock to wake them up. Nasty things can happen when insane super-villains are about and who's more insane than Spider-Man's archnemesis, the Green Goblin?<br />The Stan Lee-written drug stories (#96-98) are hokey and it's obvious Stan didn't know the first thing about drugs, but the publication of these issues was a seminal moment for modern comics. Long under the bootheel of the Comics Code Authority, Lee had to publish these three issues WITHOUT the code logo on the cover because of the drug content. He felt it was necessary to speak out against drug use and was willing to take a fairly considerable risk to do it.<br />AMAZING SPIDER-MAN #96-98 also lays the groundwork for what was to come. Harry Osborn, son of Norman Osborn (a.k.a., the Green Goblin), is addicted to drugs and gets on a bad LSD trip. Later, in #121, we find that Harry continues to have substance abuse problems. His father is livid and blames Harry's friends, including Peter. His rage drives him back into the role of the Goblin and the fateful climax atop the Brooklyn Bridge which would leave one long-time and much-beloved character dead and another forever changed.<br />The wonderful art of comic industry icons Gil Kane and John Romita, Sr., make this story a visual treat. Kane's drafting and storytelling prowess shines in this story.<br />Don't miss out on this story, one of the most involving, dramatic and poignant comic book tales to see print.	2001-03-24
US	50708794	R125WM3DZQNOYG	1563894254	176513563	Nightwing Vol. 1: A Knight in Bludhaven	Books	5	34	36	N	N	Great reading!	When Batman instructs his former protege, Nightwing (a.k.a., Dick Grayson, the first Robin), to go to the city of Bludhaven to help solve a murder mystery, he eagerly accepts. But what he expects to be a &quot;weekend outing&quot; soon becomes a life mission.<br />Nightwing takes to Bludhaven, a city with no spandex-clad, super heroes of its own, and quickly discovers that he likes having his own turf to patrol.<br />&quot;A Knight in Bludhaven&quot; is the first story arc of the NIGHTWING regular series, featuring the story of Nightwing's adoption of the dismal, blighted city of Bludhaven and the discovery of the nasty villain who holds sway over the city. It's very much a coming-of-age story for a character who has existed for sixty years now. Dick Grayson isn't Robin anymore. He's his own man and he has his own unique way of dispensing justice. The best chapter of the story is the one which features Tim Drake, the current Robin, as a guest star. Robin contrasts Nightwing and Batman and shows just how much the two men are cut from the same cloth.<br />Great reading and a non-stop thrill ride. The action scenes read like a Hong Kong action flick thanks to the wild, dynamic art of Scott McDaniel. Writer Chuck Dixon is top-notch at plotting and characterization. Don't miss out! This is one great book!	2001-03-23
US	50708794	RE7X7B7N4VEYQ	0786917938	22996977	Core Rulebook (Star Wars Roleplaying Game)	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Well done, TSR!	TSR's Star Wars Roleplaying Game is very well-organized and beautifully put together. Bill Slavicsek, who has had his share of high-profile Star Wars projects, doesn't disappoint here.<br />The rules for the game are described clearly and as succinctly as possible. There are a great selection of character classes and alien races to play as well as a plethora of technology for the players to use.<br />The introductory adventure is slanted more toward beginning roleplayers, but that's to be expected in the main rulebook. You don't want to go scaring off new players!<br />Graphically, the book is very nicely done. Highly professional illustrations share the pages with well chosen photos from all of the Star Wars films. They've done a particularly fine job of pairing the graphics appropriately with the text. It's obvious that no stone was left unturned in the attempt to make this game as good as it can be.<br />I wholeheartedly recommend this game to both experienced roleplayers and newcomers looking to get into the hobby.<br />My only criticisms of the game are a) the material is often a bit slanted toward Episode I. Not that I mind; I was one of the fans who fully enjoyed the Phantom Menace. But many fans will want a more Classic Trilogy-related slant. They'll have to wait for The Secrets of Tatooine (a future product for this game), from what I hear. And b) the D20 system is great, but sometimes a bit too reminiscent of AD&amp;D. AD&amp;D's a great game, but I almost wish they would have done away with the character levels and experience system for a more unique approach.<br />The final verdict: A great product and a great game. Highly professional as you'd expect from TSR and well organized. Don't miss it!	2001-03-13
US	50708794	R64V3I9OB661S	156389369X	360956459	JLA (Book 1): New World Order	Books	5	26	32	N	N	The Big Seven are back!	For several years, DC Comics allowed one of their most venerable and hallowed team books to languish. JUSTICE LEAGUE OF AMERICA, the last comic to tell the stories of DC's premiere super team, had become populated by castoffs, also-rans and never-will super heroes who would do much better sitting in the back issue bins than they would on the racks posing as Earth's mightiest defenders.<br />Now, in JLA, DC has brought back the core seven: Superman, Batman, Wonder Woman, Aquaman, the Flash, Green Lantern and Martian Manhunter. Most of whom comprised the original Justice League way back in BRAVE AND THE BOLD #28 in the early Silver Age of Comics.<br />Avant-garde comics writer, Grant Morrison takes the helm in this new JLA series and begins his run of wild, over-the-top, blockbuster epics featuring DC's mightiest. I don't want to spoil the secrets of this first tale, but suffice it to say there are some great twists and turns in the story. Morrison draws the reader in by pitting our heroes against a menace that seemingly can't be beaten because the public at large doesn't WANT them to!<br />Anyone who's ever wanted to fly like Superman, worn a bath towel around his neck to play Batman or loved the DC heroes in any way shape or form will love this book. Morrison has an uncanny ability to pull the reader's strings with these characters. You find yourself rooting for them uncontrollably as they face down a menace that only THEY can see and understand even in the face of widespread disdain by the public. They're heroes because they choose to be. Not because of the fame or fortune, but because it's in their very being.<br />Howard Porter, while not my favorite artist by any stretch of the imagination, is good at visually telling Morrison's epic story and great at conveying the personalities of each and every JLAer. If you missed out on this series when it came out, here's a cheap way to get the back issues (they're getting more expensive by the day!) and read one heckuva terrific comic story.terrific comic story.	2001-01-28
US	50708794	RXSMA4Y75MIYA	0440218802	371573172	Bravo Two Zero: The Harrowing True Story of a Special Forces Patrol Behind the Lines in Iraq	Books	5	43	45	N	N	New meaning to the English adage of the &quot;stiff upper lip&quot;	What an amazing story. Bravo Two Zero tells the tale of a squad of British SAS soldiers on a mission in Iraq during the Gulf War to take out mobile Scud launchers. When I started reading the book, I expected to read about the detailed accounts of how the launchers were wiped out and how Sgt. Andy McNab's team contributed to this effort. I was shocked as a chain of unfortunate events ruined the mission and put McNab's team in great peril. Several of them died and some were captured by Iraqi troops.<br />Bravo Two Zero is not for the faint of heart. The detailed account of McNab's torture and brutal beatings at the hand of the Iraqis is tough reading. I'm in awe of the fortitude and subtle defiance that he and his men exhibited in the face of such terrible cruelty.<br />But don't mistake this book for a &quot;prison journal.&quot; It's anything but. McNab goes into great detail about how the Scud hunting missions and special forces missions in general are planned and executed. You begin to realize that even the best-laid plans can be subject to failure if minute details are overlooked. As McNab points out however, in a speech he recalls from his regimental commander, the true mettle of a soldier is measured not only by his successes, but by how he performs when all hell has broken loose and the mission seems to be a total failure.<br />Bravo Two Zero is not only an amazing real-life adventure story, but also a testament to the endurance, determination and courage of the British SAS troops who took part in the Gulf War, playing a crucial role in the defeat of Sadaam Hussein.	2000-12-26
US	50708794	R1WTQN5JIQC0H4	156971407X	865545581	Star Wars - Boba Fett: Enemy of the Empire	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Something out of nothing	It's amazing how much of an aura of mystery the obscure Boba Fett has acquired in the Star Wars mythos. In the films, this character has about a half dozen lines tops, but the mysterious armor, demeanor and standing as one of the greatest bounty hunters in the galaxy piqued fans' interest.<br />In &quot;Enemy of the Empire,&quot; we see Fett's first encounter with Darth Vader. Writer John Wagner takes a humorous look at some of the denizens of the Star Wars galaxy and we get to find out how Fett received that odd dent in his helmet that appears in both Episodes V and VI.<br />&quot;Enemy&quot; didn't win any Eisners (comics' highest award), but it had solid storytelling and art (even if the latter was somewhat cartoony). A nice, light read featuring that mysterious bounty hunter on an adventure that fits quite nicely in the Star Wars epic.	2000-11-28
US	50708794	R7EF0D5U0OU04	1569714029	38354145	300	Books	5	3	6	N	N	One of the best graphic novels ever produced	300 slipped under the radar of most comic book fans, but it is truly one of the modern masterpieces of sequential art.<br />300 tells the timeless story of the 300 Spartan warriors in Ancient Greece who held against thousands of Persian soldiers, thereby saving all of Greece from sure destruction. Frank Miller, whose admirable accomplishments include &quot;The Dark Knight Returns&quot; and &quot;Sin City,&quot; gives this story new life with his simple artistic style and dialogue.<br />300 is not to be missed.	2000-11-28
US	50708794	R3F4ZT48DMS9K6	1563896931	43041393	Human Target	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A psychological thriller	I was first exposed to Peter Milligan's work when he was writing DC Vertigo's SHADE, THE CHANGING MAN, an eclectic group of stories that usually bordered on the weird. Milligan turns tail on the surreal to write this spy thriller, THE HUMAN TARGET, featuring the tale of two masters of disguise and their penchant for becoming lost in their adopted identities.<br />Milligan does a great job of delving into the empty souls of two men who immerse themselves so fully into their assumed roles that there is little left to work with when their done. They sacrifice their own individuality to take on the dangerous jobs they're given.<br />There's plenty of impressive cinematic action in the book thanks to the excellent work of the departed Edvin Biukovic. For a newcomer to American comics, his storytelling skills were impressive. It's a shame that this Croatian wonder passed away before his star really had a chance to shine.<br />For Europeans, both Milligan and Biukovic show an astounding ability to relate an American story. I guess American media really IS pervasive!<br />HUMAN TARGET is a terrific graphic novel for the adult crowd. I rank it right up there with Vertigo's recent 100 BULLETS series by awesome writer, Brian Azzarrello.	2000-10-20
US	50708794	RPEV54321P9QZ	1563896451	61336458	100 Bullets Vol. 1: First Shot, Last Call	Books	5	58	61	N	N	The best current ongoing comic book series	Brian Azzarrello's 100 BULLETS is the best, most intriguing and most well-thought-out comic book series currently in publication. It starts out seemingly as an episodic series of revenge stories but quickly becomes part espionage thriller and part conspiracy theory yarn. This TPB collects the first two story arcs, both of which are fairly well self-contained. I fully expect readers will find it enjoyable enough that many sequels will follow.<br />The basic premise is that a mysterious man by the name of Mr. Graves arrives in your life and presents you with a briefcase. In the briefcase is a gun, 100 bullets of completely untraceable ammunition and loads of evidence about the person who screwed you over and why. You're given the choice: use the bullets or not. It's up to you what to do from there. You'd think the answer would be obvious and the series would degrade into a Charles Bronsonesque revenge caper. Far from it. The decisions Azzarrello's characters make and how they go about plotting their revenge never fails to surprise.<br />The opening tale is about Dizzy Cordova, a Hispanic &quot;girl from the hood,&quot; whose boyfriend and child were killed by crooked cops. She meets Mr. Graves and makes her decision about what she should do with this opportunity to &quot;make things right.&quot;<br />Eduardo Risso's art is perfect for this series. He uses darkness and light for maximum effect and is excellent at communicating the emotions of the characters through subtle depictions of body language and facial expressions. I don't know who the Vertigo people at DC Comics found him, but this Argentine (I think that's his nationality) is a serious talent.<br />Having read 100 BULLETS for a year and a half now, I can say that I honestly have no idea where it's headed but that it's a non-stop thrill ride. Great street-level stories with real, in-depth characterization. Gamblers, hoods, assassins, backstabbing business people, bartenders, dirty cops, you name it. They're all in 100 BULLETS and you'll want to read each and every one of their stories.l in 100 BULLETS and you'll want to read each and every one of their stories.	2000-10-15
US	50708794	R1WU3A9XORPU8Z	0939766965	589017129	The Uncanny X-Men: The Dark Phoenix Saga	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Still the best ever	The Dark Phoenix Saga by Chris Claremont and John Byrne was simply the best comic book story I have ever read. While this trade paperback contains most of it, the story really ran for about 25 issues *before* the issues in the TPB.<br />It started as a subplot when the mutant X-Man, Jean Grey, was possessed by the Phoenix entity, a being of great power that slowly transformed her into one of the most powerful superbeings in the universe. The story contained in this book is the climactic end to the story. As Phoenix, Grey becomes more and more powerful to the point where she can no longer fully control the urges that her godlike abilities give her. A shadowy organization called the Hellfire Club seeks to control her and manipulate her power to their ends. Meanwhile, her fellow X-Men, including her love Scott Summers (a.k.a., Cyclops), seek to infiltrate the Hellfire Club. Ultimately they end up defending Phoenix after she has unleashed her powers in ways they never dreamed imaginable.<br />The Dark Phoenix Saga is a story of power, love, subterfuge and tragedy. Each of the X-Men has their moment to shine in this story. Of particular note is the sequence wherein Wolverine singlehandedly rescues the entire team, one of the best single-issue stories ever, in my opinion.<br />Claremont and Byrne were at the peak of their abilities in this story. Neither has shone as brightly before or since. While stories like The Dark Knight Returns and Watchmen are often said to be the best comic story ever created, my vote goes to the Dark Phoenix Saga.	2000-10-09
US	50708794	RYR2BF64H55FY	0671877054	815222208	Bran Mak Morn	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Some of Howard's formative work, some excellent	Robert E. Howard is largely credited with having invented the &quot;sword  &amp; sorcery&quot; brand of fantasy literature. And deservedly so. His  fantasy stories resonate with a stygian darkness and masculine energy that  few have been able to duplicate since.<br />Many of the Bran Mak Morn stories  published in this edition are a bit in the formative stages of Howard's  development as an author, or at least they seemed that way to me. Maybe he  was just fighting a deadline on some of them. However, many of these  stories are excellent, particularly &quot;Worms of the Earth&quot; and  &quot;The Dark Man.&quot;<br />Bran is a different hero from most of Howard's  barbarians. He's the evolved member of a dying race, the Picts. While the  Picts are doomed to become extinct as a race and there's a sense they know  it, they refuse to go down without a fight, doing battle with the Roman  legions to the bitter end. Bran embodies this fighting spirit in all the  tales contained within.	2000-09-18
US	50708794	R75DIR09RZX1F	0380708213	223407615	The Forever War	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Two immutable laws	Conflict and physics. Humanity is ever plagued with the urge to wreak  havoc upon itself but when the stakes are star-spanning empires, you have  relativity to contend with. In Haldeman's Forever War, faster-than-light  travel has not solved the riddle of relativity. Therefore, soldiers who  fight in one battle and then fly off hundreds of light years for the next  find themselves decades or sometimes centuries in the future to fight their  battle, in many cases with outdated weaponry and tactics. Haldeman tells an  imaginative tale, exploring humanity's unquenchable lust for warfare  despite the immutable laws of physics that make waging armed conflict  across the stars extremely difficult.	2000-09-16
US	50708794	R3H5EE2TCTL18Z	0785107452	833266554	Avengers: The Kree-Skrull War	Books	4	30	31	N	N	A dated but fun romp through Marvel history	I became a Marvel zombie in the mid-70's. While I had heard of the  Kree-Skrull War many times in the following years, I never had the  opportunity to read the epic story that had been originally printed in  Avengers #89-97. When Marvel announced some months ago that they were  finally going to collect these issues in a trade paperback I pre-ordered  the book right away.<br />Like many 60's and 70's comic book stories, this  one's fairly dated. The concerns of the age show through and the  overwhelming use of &quot;pseudoscience&quot; by writer Roy Thomas can  sometimes be a bit much to take. But all in all, this epic lives up to its  billing. It's a starspanning adventure featuring dozens of characters and  events that affected the Marvel Universe to this day.<br />Captain Marvel, the  Super Skrull, the Supreme Intelligence, Ronan the Accuser, Rick Jones and  many other supporting characters bring this tale to life along with the  regular cast members, Captain America, Iron Man, the Vision, Scarlet Witch,  Goliath, Quicksilver and Thor. Praise be to editor Tom Brevoort for keeping  the original coloring. While it ain't beautiful like the computer-aided  coloring that appears in today's comics, it IS part of the original comics  and I'm glad they kept it pure.<br />The Neal Adams-drawn issues of the  series are by far the best (#93-96), but the Buscema brothers (Sal and  John) fill out the series admirably.<br />Avengers: Kree Skrull War makes a  fine addition to any comic fan's bookshelf.	2000-09-13
US	50708794	R3TQ605288BOP	0871137380	189891237	Black Hawk Down: A Story of Modern War	Books	5	17	20	N	N	Laying down their lives...	Black Hawk Down is the most detailed, finely authored account of troops in  combat that I have ever read. Author Mark Bowden obviously went to great  pains to recreate the events of Oct. 3-4, 1993, when a company-sized unit  of mixed Delta Force operators and Airborne Rangers went into the dangerous  territory of downtown Mogadishu to extract two lieutenants of the insidious  Somalian warlord Aidid.<br />The struggles of our troops to battle seemingly  the entire city follows. It's an amazing testament to the training,  determination and pride of the U.S. armed forces. It's a shame that the  U.S. mission to Somalia was not successful, but you can't fault our troops.  They carried out their orders with skill and precision. The failure goes to  the politicians who failed to recognize and fully analyze the intransigence  of a people gripped by anarchy and the anachronistic clan hierarchy of  their society.<br />The American mission to Somalia occurred shortly after our  success in the Gulf War, when America was riding high on its military might  and we deemed ourselves the world &quot;police force.&quot; While there is  little doubt that the United States is the world's only remaining super  power, even we must know ahead of time that whenever U.S. troops are called  upon to defend democracy, we must be prepared for casualties of war. The  grisly footage of Somalian mobs defiling the corpses of U.S. troops haunts  me to this day. But I'm sad that we did not attempt to complete the mission  in Somalia to honor the sacrifices made by these and the other troops who  fought and died there.<br />Bowden's account shows both sides of the conflict,  but I can't help feeling angry and saddened after reading this book. But I  also feel overwhelming pride and respect for the men who fought and died  for our country in this conflict.	2000-09-08
US	50708794	R167YYO1C4PJP5	1563895137	7227423	The Kents	Books	5	7	7	N	N	How the west was won	Comics are a wonderful medium. So few media have the ability to reach  their participants in such a personal and moving fashion. Sure, there's  plenty of chaff in the comics marketplace, but oh, the wheat!<br />The Kents  by John Ostrander, Timothy Truman and Tom Mandrake is one of the finest  recent examples of what the comics medium can do when it sets out to do  something special. The Kents is a historical fiction. It sweeps across the  years of the 19th century from the peak of the Abolitionist movement to the  taming of the west. The primary characters are the Kent family, the  fictional ancestors of Jonathan and Martha Kent, Superman's adoptive  parents. But you'll find little of Superman, Lex Luther or anything of  Metropolis in this tale.<br />The story is guided by correspondence between  Jonathan and Clark Kent. Jonathan has uncovered a volume of letters and  journals from his ancestors that chronicle their family history and he's  relating his findings to his son, Clark (yes, *that* Clark Kent) with  letters of his own.<br />Silas Kent brings his two sons, Nathaniel and  Jebediah, to Lawrence, Kansas, where they set up a printing press and fight  for the abolition of slavery. What follows is an intense and emotional  journey of this family. History is not kind to them. In the process, they  experience the Civil War and the raging chaos of the Wild West. Along the  way, we meet historical figures like the violent abolitionist, John Brown,  Wild Bill Hickok, George Armstrong Custer, Jesse James and the James Gang  and dozens more figures who made history in this era.<br />The art is superb.  The Kents is actually a collection of a 12-issue monthly series. The first  eight chapters are illustrated by Tim Truman, no stranger to western comics  having drawn several recent Jonah Hex series, also for DC Comics, and his  own Scout, the story of a Native American character. The last four chapters  cover the years after the Civil War and the opportunity to change the pace  is met by illustrator Tom Mandrake, whose skill in working with darkness  and facial expressions is virtually unmatched in the comics  industry.<br />Writer Ostrander obviously did his research on this series.  You'd think he was born to write westerns. Having had the opportunity to  correspond with Ostrander while working as a comics industry journalist, I  know that he didn't even like westerns until his late wife, Kim Yale, got  him hooked on them! Many thanks for pushing her husband in the right  direction. Ostrander has gone on to write other excellent western comics,  such as Marvel's Blaze of Glory.<br />The Kents transcends what most people  think of what comic books are capable of. Me, I've known it all along and  hope that you pick up this book and find out for yourself!the pace  is met by illustrator Tom Mandrake, whose skill in working with darkness  and facial expressions is virtually unmatched in the comics  industry.<br />Writer Ostrander obviously did his research on this series.  You'd think he was born to write westerns. Having had the opportunity to  correspond with Ostrander while working as a comics industry journalist, I  know that he didn't even like westerns until his late wife, Kim Yale, got  him hooked on them! Many thanks for pushing her husband in the right  direction. Ostrander has gone on to write other excellent western comics,  such as Marvel's Blaze of Glory.<br />The Kents transcends what most people  think of what comic books are capable of. Me, I've known it all along and  hope that you pick up this book and find out for yourself!	2000-08-29
US	50708794	R17YDX8SWLDL1O	0425169383	477412990	Daredevil: The Cutting Edge	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Robins succeeds at capturing the essense of the characters	Daredevil: The Cutting Edge was good, entertaining reading. Madeleine  Robins' greatest success was capturing the essense of Daredevil and his  supporting cast. Daredevil, Karen Page and all the others &quot;felt&quot;  like they do in the Daredevil comic book. I was just as interested in  reading Daredevil's exploits as &quot;blind&quot; lawyer, Matt Murdock or  those of his compatriots, Karen, Foggy Nelson and Ben Urich, as I was  Daredevil himself.<br />Robins plays with current events a bit, concerning the  extents to which genetic engineering can go awry and be abused by renegade  corporations. She also did enough homework on legal practices to make  Murdock's lawyerly scenes believable. Matt, Foggy and Rosalind Sharpe all  behave in a way that made me believe they were lawyers. (Better than you  can say for the cast of Ally McBeal, anyway!)<br />The villains are a tad on  the &quot;evil for evil's sake&quot; side, but Robins tries to convey that  primary villainess, Belinda Quayle, is wicked due to her cold, blue-blooded  upbringing. As for &quot;The Cutter,&quot; there isn't much in the way of  explanation for his wickedness. Just one of those cardboard cut-ups that  heroes need to beat some sense into.<br />Daredevil is such a great  street-level super hero character, that you almost don't have to mention  the other goings-on in the Marvel Universe. And I sort of wish Robins  didn't. Dr. Doom and a few other Marvel ne'er do wells are mentioned from  time to time and it sort of throws the story off a bit. It almost would  have been better if they weren't mentioned at all and that for the sake of  the story, Daredevil inhabited his own universe. However, it's probably not  Robins' fault. I suspect it's a Marvel edict that some mention of the other  players in the Marvel Universe get mentioned. It's a fairly minor nit, but  this does detract a bit from the story.<br />The overall mystery of the story  doesn't quite hold water at times. There are tons of clues and I have to  admit that I was a little disappointed Daredevil didn't figure it out  sooner. All the pieces were there, but Robins doesn't quite allow him to be  as smart as he should be given what we know about the character from the  comics.<br />All in all, I enjoyed the book. It has well-choreographed action  scenes peppered throughout the story and great character interaction. When  Daredevil or the supporting characters in the story encountered problems or  were hurt, I felt sympathetic toward them. Robins successfully gives her  characters life and makes you root for them.<br />If you're looking for a fun  read featuring your favorite red-clad guardian of Hell's Kitchen and you'd  like to see him in another medium besides comics, I highly recommend  Daredevil: The Cutting Edge.nd I have to  admit that I was a little disappointed Daredevil didn't figure it out  sooner. All the pieces were there, but Robins doesn't quite allow him to be  as smart as he should be given what we know about the character from the  comics.<br />All in all, I enjoyed the book. It has well-choreographed action  scenes peppered throughout the story and great character interaction. When  Daredevil or the supporting characters in the story encountered problems or  were hurt, I felt sympathetic toward them. Robins successfully gives her  characters life and makes you root for them.<br />If you're looking for a fun  read featuring your favorite red-clad guardian of Hell's Kitchen and you'd  like to see him in another medium besides comics, I highly recommend  Daredevil: The Cutting Edge.	2000-08-22
US	50708794	R60H5TIZ4GB66	048622709X	116956313	The Book of a Hundred Hands (Dover Anatomy for Artists)	Books	3	26	37	N	N	Useful, but photographic reference would be better	Bridgman gets a lot of credit for his mastery as an illustrator.  Nevertheless, as a tool this book would have been more useful with  photographic references of hands in various positions. By using Bridgman's  illustrations as a guide, you end up simply aping his style to some extent.  The end result is like when you photocopy a photocopy: a little grainier,  much muddier version of the original.	2000-08-22
US	50708794	R26HSEL3RJCB5A	0823015513	616176207	Dynamic Anatomy	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Good for muscular tension illustrations	Hogarth's book is best as an aid in learning how to draw scenes with muscular tension, action scenes and depictions of strength. For more  relaxed poses and typical anatomy illustrations, I recommend a life drawing  book with nude models or even a life drawing class. Still, Dynamic Anatomy  is a good reference and I highly recommend it.	2000-08-22
US	50708794	R13P4Y7K936APP	1929998066	256141596	Fortune and Glory: A True Hollywood Comic Book Story	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Hilarious, no holds barred examination of Hollywood	Ever interview for a job when you already have one you're content with? That was Brian Michael Bendis' situation when he sold his first script to  Hollywood. He was making a name for himself as a comic book artist/writer  when he got noticed by Hollywood. And that's where the journey  begins...<br />Bendis delves into the Twilight Zone that is Hollywood when he  goes about meeting the studio heads, agents, producers and other bizarre  individuals who become the characters of this hilarious graphic novel.  Since he already has his dream job, Bendis has the luxury of being able to  &quot;look outside in&quot; at the weirdness of Tinsel Town.<br />From the  producer who insists Elliot Ness is a fictional (and not historical)  character to the &quot;HBO incident,&quot; Bendis delivers a great story  that comments on our youth-fixated culture, capricious attention spans and  the miracle of how a broken-down system like the one in Hollywood still  manages to crank out dozens of movies per year.<br />I've been lending this  series out to many friends who are non-comic-readers. If you have a bias  against comics, get past it and pick this book up! You won't be sorry!	2000-08-14
US	50708794	R1THX2N0DNR4AI	1556344082	94362031	Gurps Traveller: Science Fiction Adventure in the Far Future, 2nd Edition	Books	2	10	16	N	N	Not overly useful	As a big fan of Traveller, I was eager to see how Loren Wiseman would  adapt the game for GURPS. While I suppose GURPS Traveller is a necessary  book to introduce Traveller to GURPS, the book certainly isn't very meaty  and doesn't have much in it that you couldn't just glean from purchasing  the GURPS main rulebook. The character archtypes are a must but beyond  that, they could have distributed the material among GURPS other  sourcebooks. I would have rather scene a more detailed history section,  akin to those I've come to expect from my Traveller products.	2000-08-14
US	50708794	RC8IETFMY702T	0312163657	962460962	Francis Drake: Lives of a Hero	Books	5	11	13	N	N	The sixteenth century entrepreneur	Reading about Drake's many seagoing professions, I can't help relating his  exploits to those of Silicon Valley entrepreneurs. While your average  corporate adventurer doesn't risk life and limb on long maritime voyages,  the desire for fame and fortune is the same.<br />Francis Drake, as Cummins  presents him, was a man of common birth who sought to make a name and a  great deal of wealth for himself. Early in his career he was a slave trader  along with John Hawkins, but if we are to believe what Cummins says, he  found it distasteful.<br />He later took to a highly successful career as a  corsair and explorer, raiding Spanish shipping for gold and becoming one of  the first men to circumnavigate the Earth. Cummins' portrayal of Drake as  an egalitarian holds up under scrutiny. He employed men of many backgrounds  in his crews including African Cimarrons who had escaped from slavery under  the Spanish and fled into the jungles of Latin America.<br />Cummins explores  Drake's exploits in great detail without apparent bias. He doesn't shy away  from showing the man's less appealing traits in his portrait. One of the  things that stood out was Drake's behavior during the battle with the  Spanish Armada. Drake had a hard time suppressing his piratical urges when  he often was needed for more military endeavors. Nevertheless, Drake stands  out primarily as a man of honor in a tumultuous time.<br />If you enjoy  biographies, history or just a good pirate tale (that's real!) I highly  recommend this book. It's a fascinating story of a man whose inner passion  and desire for glory drove him to great things.	2000-08-10
US	50708794	RBUW167LZ5MDE	0785107371	212530665	Daredevil Visionaries Vol. 1: Guardian Devil (v. 1)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A fine first effort	Kevin Smith proved he could write interesting characters in his films. But  could he succeed in the pinnacle art form of all literature: comics?<br />The  answer is a resounding yes! Smith does a fine job of capturing the essence  of Marvel's most intriguing character, Matt Murdock, the blind lawyer  gifted with the power of hypersenses and radar &quot;vision.&quot; Smith's  tale of deceit, death and remorse hits to the bone. Nice job, Silent Bob!	2000-08-09
US	50708794	R3OWZL01QKKF3A	0312863551	562507215	The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Heinlein's best...in THIS cobber's opinion!	When I read this book, I can't help imagine the great pains Heinlein must  have taken to properly research the material. To relate the scope of  &quot;The Moon is a Harsh Mistress,&quot; Heinlein had to be political  scientist, physicist, computer scientist, marketeer and soldier, just to  name a few.<br />The characters are engaging and interesting with Mannie, the  weathered tech, Prof, I suspect the voice of Heinlein himself and Mike, the  computer with curious motivations. Rarely have I felt so attached to a  group of characters and I can hardly believe Heinlein had me rooting for  the Loonies to whip our Terran butts!<br />If you've read Heinlein before,  you're in for a treat. This is his best work. If you haven't, get ready for  a fascinating and highly possible near-future story. 'Mistress' will make  you rethink the world and the society in which we live.	2000-08-08
US	50708794	RQLKS5XSFMC93	0441790348	739394524	Stranger in a Strange Land (Remembering Tomorrow)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Not Heinlein's best	While STRANGER gets the nod by many people to be Heinlein's best book, I  didn't find it so. For all the press he gets for being a feminist, his  female characters in this novel are little more than science fiction's  answer to Charlie's Angels. The main character is meant to serve as a  modern metaphor for Christ, but his message is somewhat dubious. All in  all, STRANGER reads well and some of the ideas presented are interesting.  But I can only give this book an average rating. Worthy of your time but  not of all the accolades.	2000-08-07
US	50708794	R2M80QBO5P4WOU	0446600962	983312383	Midshipman's Hope	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A great debut into the sci-fi genre	Feintuch's melodramatic sci-fi epic begins here with Midshipman's Hope. I bought this book at the University of Washington book store some years ago and I still remember how the clerk, who had read it, described the book:  &quot;It's terrific! It's like Admiral Hornblower meets Star Wars!&quot;  The subsequent books in the Nicholas Seafort saga are also excellent, but  none of them resonates with the energy and originality of this, the first  in the series. Don't miss it!	2000-07-28
US	50708794	R8IM5A6MBB0BG	0446600997	778642311	Fisherman's Hope (Seafort Saga)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	More angst-ridden adventure with Nick Seafort	If there's one thing you can say about the Hope series, it's that Feintuch manages to grow the characters but still manages to keep their basic premises intact. Nicholas Seafort's ongoing quest for honor and redemption  continues here where he becomes an instructor at the Lunar academy where he  earned his commission. The story is gripping and the final outcome was not  what I expected at all. Great stuff!	2000-07-28
US	50708794	R17RK26PRG68JY	1569712581	292737605	Art of Comic Book Inking	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Great for aspiring inkers and comic fans alike	I finally know what makes for good comic book inks after reading this book. Gary Martin comprehensively outlines all the elements of comic book inking including the various techniques, styles and methods that the pros  use. Plenty of samples from his own work and that of others. If you want to  learn how to ink comic book art or you just want to know what distinguishes  good inking from bad, I highly recommend this book. The production values,  art and cover are also very professional.	2000-07-28
US	50708794	R31276I80XATZG	0684848015	340472252	Citizen Soldiers: The U. S. Army from the Normandy Beaches to the Bulge to the Surrender of Germany	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Unmatched courage and commitment	As I read this book, I wondered if I or anyone of my generation would be able to sum up the courage to fight as bravely as the American GI did in the ETO. The generation that fought in WW II and preserved democracy in our  world may have been unique. This book tells the tale, in vivid detail, of  the soldiers who fought and prevailed against Hitler and the Nazis. Ambrose  leaves no stone unturned as he successfully conveys to us the experience of  the GI. It's not meant to be a complete history of the war, but rather a  history annotated with scores of personal accounts by the men who fought  it. After reading this book, I salute these men and thank them for making  possible the free country I live in today.	2000-03-03
