US	50703543	RVHL93OYRZU1B	1891661078	761012335	How to Win Lotteries, Sweepstakes, and Contests in the 21st Century	Books	4	17	19	N	N	GOOD LUCK	Do you want to increase your chances of winning contests, lotteries and sweepstakes? If yes this is an excellent resource guide for you as you tangle through the mazes of chance. Steve Ledoux gives gives his reader clear and concise methods of increasing your chances in order to become a winner. He should know because he is a winner of numerous contests that have richly rewarded him.<br />    The book gives a brief history of the games and explains how to maximize your chances. He also has chapters dealing with game shows, the IRS, frequently asked questions regarding winning contests and how to deal with your new found wealth. Reading this information helps you to know what to expect and prepare for it. He also includes web sites, addresses and other resources regarding the rules and regulations for lotteries in the different states.<br />     You will no doubt ask the question, if I read this book will I win? Ledoux tells the reader that number one, you've got to play the game (buy the ticket, fill out contest form, etc.) Second, follow the instructions. Third, keep a positive attitude.<BR>Fourth, remember this is a game of fun and yes, you will win but as with anything you must keep at it. Already I tried some of his principles and yep, I won. Give his book a try and come out more knowledgeable about these games of chance.	2003-06-04
US	50703543	R1V9X8ADC3ENCU	0345422864	668222917	First Coming (Library of Contemporary Thought)	Books	1	3	5	N	N	AN AXE TO GRIND	Of all of the Tiger Woods books that have been written this one is the worst I have encountered. Why? Instead of giving a thought provoking analysis of Tiger Woods as a player and his personal impact upon the sporting world, you end up reading a personal vendetta that the author has against Team Tiger. <br />      John  Feinstein starts out with the question of who is Tiger Woods and then proceeds to break the myths surrounding the personality. There isn't anything wrong with breaking myths except Feinstein has nothing good to say about Tiger (except for his game). He accuses Earl Woods of exploiting his famous son, he castigates IMG for being Tiger's management agency, and shows his hatred for Tiger's agent, Hughes Norton. He paints a portrait of Tiger being immature, greedy and totally insensitive to his fans. If that is the case, why bother slapping together a work dealing with the greatest player in the golf world?<br />     In all fairness to the author, he does expose Tiger for what he was at the time; a young immature player who makes mistakes. He also shows the myths that the media have perpetuated about the young man. He also points out how greedy sponsors and management agencies can ruin the careers of young players. That is good information in understanding Tiger Woods the icon but says little about him as a person.<br />      What is lacking in the book is Feinstein not really knowing Tiger personally. His diatribes against the player and his cohorts have prevented him from getting to know the other side of the young man who will make a  great contribution to golf. Feinstein is caught up in an axe to grind against Tiger's handlers and misses the champion. You don't gain any insight from his musings. If you are a Tiger fan and want to collect books about him regardless of what is said about Tiger by all means pick up a copy. Otherwise leave it on the shelf.	2003-06-04
US	50703543	R27QJRC73LMGJK	1574780204	13747680	What Next: A Memoir Toward World Peace	Books	3	6	6	N	N	REFLECTION ON PEACE	Walter Mosley is one who moves beyond the tag of being a mystery writer. In this slender volume he shares his reflections and thoughts on how to achieve world peace.According to Mosley African-Americans hold the key in achieving world peace due to their unique experience in America.<br />       How does Mosley get to this idea? He shares with us a story told to him by his father. LeRoy Mosley shares his epiphany of being an American through his World War II experience. He states, &quot;It was the Germans and the Americans who were at war... I didn't know I was an American until they ( the Germans) started shooting at me.&quot; The senior Mosley reveals the paradox of being Black in America. Blacks are seen as outsiders by the majority population but those who are America's enemies don't make a distinction between Black and White. Regardless of ethnicity, Americans are seen as the enemy.<br />    Using his father's story as the launching point, Mosley looks at the events of September 11th and sees that blacks are identified with the oppressor even if they are considered outsiders. Since Blacks occupy a precarious position in the society they can understand the anger of the enemy. As Americans Blacks can no longer remain silent about world affairs. They must become key players for America's fate is tied to African-Americans.<br />       Mosley calls for grassroots organization, the utilization of the media and political action in order for African-Americans to engage America in  promoting piece. You don't have to be a political science major to realize the need for such actions. Mosley has some good thoughts but he rambles and at times  you wonder how he got from point A to point B. He speaks about the silence of Blacks concerning 9-11 but fails to point out that the so-called silence was due to the media and not passivism on the part of African-Americans. His ideas are so general as to be useless. After all, haven't these steps have already been taken?<br />     I applaud Mr. Mosley for starting the conversation about peace but he needs to add more depth and detail into what he feels African-Americans can do to achieve it.	2003-05-25
US	50703543	R1353TIEGAQQ4N	0767915062	154053708	Bill Bryson's African Diary	Books	2	17	22	N	N	HASTILY WRITTEN	African Diary is not one of Bryson's best pieces of travel writing. Regardless of the fact that the profits from the book goes to a charity (CARE), readers deserve a well written book about Kenya and its people. After reading the slender volume you get a very shallow understanding of that country and its culture. Bryson could have done better but in eight days, what can you really share about a country?<br />     Bryson starts out by acknowledging his ignorance about the \\"Dark\\" continent beyond his exposure to Tarzan and Jungle Jim movies. CARE, a charitable organization, invites him to visit their projects in Kenya and write about them. He sees this as an opportunity to familiarize himself with the \\"Dark\\" continent. His diary covers eight days.<br />     In one week we are told about the biggest slum in Kenya called Kibera and are assaulted with the dire statistics of the ills of Kenya. He shares with us his excitement over seeing a Maasai man as if the man was an exotic pet. From there we are taken to Kenya's National Museum where he views human fossils collected by Leaky. Once done there he regales us with his harrowing train ride to Mombasa and describes accidents, deaths and other uncomfortable occurrances from the train's past.<br />       Our final destination is a refugee camp. CARE is doing its best to help the people but government corruption and other factors keep the people in a miserable condition. Suddenly Bryson's adventure is over and he slaps together this book. He could and should have done better. There isn't any true connection with the people, land or CARE workers other than the superficial meetings. In fact Bryson's ignorance about the \\"Dark\\" continent seems to continue throughout his trip. He could have done better and perhaps he needs to visit Africa again but this time without charitable patronage and get to meet and feel the land and its people.	2003-05-23
US	50703543	R14EYGDGA31JHZ	0306811243	237835742	Chasing Tiger: The Tiger Woods Reader	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A GREAT COLLECTION	Da Capo Press present a collection of sports stories chronicling the career of the phenomenal &quot;Tiger&quot; Woods. As a player, icon and astute businessman, Tiger has captured the hearts and minds of sports writers. As much as they have written about this great champion of the links, the more he suprises them with new records. They are chasing Tiger but he is not so easily to be captured and defined in words. Thus this collection gives us an over-view of those writers fascination with their young prey as he launches his career.<br />    Jaime Diaz's profile of Tiger in 1991 kicks off the beginning of this collection. It is significantin that it set the pattern for Tiger becoming more than just a name in the crowd who happened to be a good golfer. Diaz warns Nicklaus to watch out for a new young man is in town (Tiger was fifteen)who will surpass him.<br />    A decade later, Michael Wilborn from the Washington Post bemoans the fact that being great isn't good enough in golf anymore. Why? The answer is simple, Tiger Woods. The young man has changed the stakes of the game to the point where being great isn't enough to win. Even in his &quot;slump&quot; periods, Tiger is still at his peak. He has raised the stakes and game to a much higher level that forces his opponents to play better.<br />    The rest of the articles touch on issues about his deal with Nike, his refusal to be baited into &quot;race&quot; issues, his golf career at Stanford and his becoming a cultural icon. All of these articles are informative and enlightening as you see Tiger develop over the years. Truly this young man has changed the face of golf in many ways. Chasing Tiger:The Tiger Woods Reader is an essential book to have in seeing how the sports world has kept its eye on one of golf's greatest champions.	2003-05-22
US	50703543	RWCYJ32WPT900	0375507744	432172720	Morning by Morning: How We Home-Schooled Our African-American Sons to the Ivy League	Books	4	40	41	N	N	A VIABLE ALTERNATIVE	Home Schooling is a controversial subject within the African-American community particularly those of the so-called upper middle-classes. America's public school system has proved itself a failure to adequately educate African-American children and private schools are no better. What is one to do? Paula Penn-Nabrit provides an answer, home schooling.<br />    Yes, home schooling is a viable alternative. She should know because she and her spouse created such an environment for their sons. The results? All three young men were accepted into Ivy League schools. In viewing the results home schooling should not be ignored as an option for your child's education.<br />    Morning By Morning takes us on a faith journey of parents who decided to take charge of the education of their sons. Ms and Mr Nabrit describe how they reached the decision, the steps they took to develop a curriculum for their sons, the criticism that they received from family members and the change in themselves and their boys as they went through the program.<br />     Ms Nabrit shares with her readers practical information about home schooling and presents a well thought out philosophical foundation of the need to give her children a wholistic education not found in schools. She doesn't preach that her method is the only way or that home schooling is for everybody. She lays out the facts, resources and lessons learned from her experience and lets the reader make the decision.<br />      I found this to be an excellent book by an African-American who has clearly shared with her readers the challenge of home schooling her children. She doesn't leave any aspect of the experience untouched and lets the parents know what they're getting themselves into emotionally, economically and spiritually. I certainly enjoyed Ms Nabrit's incorporation of the spiritual aspect of her children's lives in the education process. She and her husband are truly committed to a wholistic<BR>education for their children and succeeded. This book is an example of how African-American parents can achieve the same thing for their children.<br />      As much as I liked the book there were some philosophical problems I had with it. The Nabrits are &quot;Ivy&quot; League graduates as well as products of private white schools. They sent their children to private white schools and upper middle class public schools. Their commitment to home schooling came about when their sons were expelled from their elite private white school because their parents failed to pay the tuition in a timely matter. Although the Nabrits admit that this was the reason for them going to home schooling, I'm wondering if they still had the need to prove that their children could get into &quot;Ivy&quot; League schools because such institutions are white.<br />     Certainly the class bias predominates throughout the work. Ms Nabrit makes sure that we learn about the pedigrees of both her family and that of her husbands who were fortunate enough to have a tradition of college educated family members. This book is certainly geared towards the African-American Upper Middle-Class. <br />      Home Schooling is considered a risky alternative form of education. The Nabrits have proved that it can be  successful and that your children can compete with anyone. If you as a parent have the time, tenacity, commitment and ability to take on the challenge by all means seek home schooling for your child. There isn't any doubt that they will do better than their institutionalized colleagues. The Nabrit's experiment proved it.	2003-05-21
US	50703543	R1M5WC56MV7CWW	0758201869	635613505	I Choose To Stay: A Black Teacher Refuses to Desert the Inner City	Books	3	3	5	N	N	A COMMITTED EDUCATOR	Would you give up a salary increase of $20,000 to stay as a teacher in an inner-city school?If your answer is no, then you are one of the \\"normal\\" teachers who want to move on for bigger and better things. If your answer is yes, join in the ranks with one of the most outstanding and committed educator, Salome Thomas-EL. He gave up the chance of a higher salary out of a commitment to his community and the children of his school.<br />     I Choose To Stay is Mr. EL's life story and firm conviction to educate the students in the Philadelphia inner-city school system. Salome EL was a product of that system and faced emotional and financial challenges to make it through school, college and finally as a teacher in the public school system. As readers we're taken into the deep love and devotion that this man has for his kids and community. He does this through his focus on excellence for his students at Vaux Middle School and the revival of their chess club that serves as an alternative to traditional sports.<br />      Mr. EL is full of excitement and enthusiasm for his kids and you get swept up in the same feeling for them. Through his creativity, role modeling and being supportive of these young people who live in challenging circumstances we see a remarkable change in their attitudes. Truly these young people are winners not only in chess but in life.<br />      Salome Thomas-EL is the new generation of African-American male teachers who want to make a difference in his community. His tenacity and love for his kids shows that there is more to life than making the all mighty dollar. From reading about his life and the impact he had on his schools, you can see that inner-city schools have more to offer. With men like EL at the helm change can come for the better. He is an inspiration for anyone who wants to teach those children that our society gives up on. A role model such as EL breaks all stereotypes about teachers and the performance of inner-city school children.	2003-05-18
US	50703543	RTIRMHALWK0PX	0609609432	610052360	In Search of Tiger: A Journey Through Golf With Tiger Woods	Books	3	3	4	N	N	KEEP SEARCHING	In this latest book about Eldrick Woods, the author takes a different approach in unraveling one of golf's greatest players. Readers should be cautione; this is not a conventional biography of Tiger Woods. What you are given are various anecdotes about Tiger loosely tied together within the historical framework of golf. From the outset this sounds good but you know even less about Tiger than when you started out and find out more about those who have had anything to do with his career.<br />     Why learn about Mark O'Mear, Arnold Palmer, Sergio Garcia, Ernie Els, Jack Nicklaus and other golfing greats and then call your book In Search of Tiger? The book is less about Tiger and more about the development of the game and those who impacted upon it. All of the facts about Tiger's career, business and family can be found in other books. Our author, Tom Callahan has sloopily sewed together a series of articles about other golfers and nongolfers who know Tiger and then you aren't sure if they know him at all.<br />     I must admit that the writing is good. The historical context and relationship of the players to the game and their fathers is interesting. I did expect more about Tiger and less about every Tom, Dick and Harry who supposidly know him. Tiger Woods fans can add another mediocre book to their collection about Woods but if you want a definitive work on the champion try another text. Keep Searching.	2003-05-16
US	50703543	R3UEAT327SAXH9	087605193X	414015212	Adopting the Racing Greyhound	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A GREAT GUIDE	Have you ever considered the possibility of adopting a racing greyhound but didn't know where to begin? Cynthis Branigan takes away all of the anxieties and worries about adopting these wonderful royal canines.<BR>   In a simple format Branigan lays out the history of the breed, the training of the dogs, their care and the steps you need to consider in adopting a grehound for your household. I found the book easy to follow and it opened up the possibility of considering an ex-racer as a pet for my household.<BR>   Adopting The Racing Greyhound should be your number one primer in finding out how to acquire these remarkable dogs. The author is highly enthusiastic in sharing the information and is also one who has adopted greyhounds. Her informative style and commitment to the dogs is remarkable. Cynthia Branigan is also very clear in presenting the challenges of having an ex-racer in your home. She tells about their quirks and habits which can be overcome if you are patient with your dog and are willing to spend the time to incorporate this pet in your household.	2003-05-14
US	50703543	R2RSFTAM0ZNV3K	006270222X	957335572	Playing Through: Straight Talk on Hard Work, Big Dreams, and Adventures with Tiger	Books	3	7	9	N	N	BEHIND THE TIGER	Who was the man who was behind Tiger Woods to mold and shape him into the champion that he is today? The answer is Earl Woods, Tiger's father, friend and confidant. Playing Through is Earl Woods' own biography of what it is like to be the father of one of golf's greatest stars. One would expect a cohesive and comprehensive story about Earl's life and that of his son. Instead you are presented with a man who is uncapable of seperating himself from the persona of his son. Earl Woods spends the majority of the time speaking about his son rather than himself. How strange, since the book is supposed to be about Earl Woods. Unfortunately it ends up as a promotional text about Tiger.<br />     Earl Woods is a man who dealt with many obstacles in his life. As a teenager he lost his parents, struggled with a career choice, dealt with the racism in the Army and a failed marriage. Then after his divorce and remarriage a child was born and Earl devotes his life to him even at the expense of his own marriage. At this juncture we hear no more about Earl. Tiger becomes the focus which is a shame since Earl's life is far more interesting.<br />    Throughout the work Earl tends to put people on a pedestle to the point where they become unreal ( his mother, his brother-in-law, and the orignial Tiger, his friend). He is defensive about any criticism about his son and doesn't tell us much about his relationship with his other children. Earl is so emeshed in his youngest son's identity that he becomes a bore. Surely he could have told us more about himself rather than going on and on and on about Tiger.<br />      Despite his faults Earl Woods raises some interesting questions regarding the role of the NCAA on student athletes. He intimates that the NCAA controls the athletes who make money for their schools but receive nothing in return. Earl also shows the impact that Tiger's status has made on the game. Tiger's presence has made the game more accessible to people, raised the purses,tightened security and inspired more minority children as well as their parents to take up the game. Tiger's impact is immeasurable as he continues his career.<br />       If you can tolerate Earl's egotistical meanderings and  defensive posture, the book is a good lesson in how not to make the mistakes Earl made and become a better parent. It is filled with Tiger's triumphs and challenges. Earl comes across as your controlling parent of an exceptional and talented player. It is worth the read for those who are Tiger fans and collectors of books written about thim.	2003-05-09
US	50703543	R3A2ARS76T7B9R	0446529427	602661748	Growing Up King: An Intimate Memoir	Books	3	0	1	N	N	MOVING BEYOND THE SHADOW	The progeny of great men and women are usually compared to their venerable parent. Such is the case in the Martin Luther King, Jr. family. Since his death a microscope has been placed over his children comparing them to him. Dexter, the second son and third child of King attempts to break out of the shadow of his father and reveals to us his hopes, dreams and aspirations for himself and his family. Dexter's text is a good try but fails in its efforts.<br />      Growing Up Kings gives the reader the perspective of a child raised in the Martin Luther King, Jr. family. Dexter reveals the challenges that he faced in living under the shadow of a famous father. We as readers are shown the stresses and pressures put upon the family as they faced tragedy after tragedy but continued on with the dream as articulated by King. Dexter does a fair job in sharing with us some of his family's personal matters but is very restrained in critiquing the actions of his mother and other civil rights icons.<br />       As you walk through the narrative, you will find Dexter repeating himself and giving the reader a history of the civil rights movement. He shares his foibles but was again there is a restraint in his revelations. Just how much is Dexter telling us that is true? Our author seems to never be able to stand on his own two feet without invoking the shadow of the King family over his life.<br />       The best part of the book is his explanation regarding the safeguarding of M.L.K Jr.'s speeches and intellectual property that is not in the public domain. You will learn that there is another side to the story and Dexter tells it well. You also receive a bit of insight regarding the functionairies of the King Center and how Dexter chose to resign his position as president rather than become a puppet.<br />       Like many people I was attracted to this book due to the nature of its contents. Who wouldn't want to know what it is like growing up under Martin Luther King, Jr.? Dexter's story was interesting but lacked a greater depth in terms of his own vision for the future beyond his family. He appeared to be trapped in the King mystique although he tried to become his own man. The book neglected any full scale treatment of his relationships with his mother and siblings. Yes, he throws tidbits concerning his failed love relationships but those appear to be mere diversions to keep up your interest. In general we are given a decent perspective of the King family.Hopefully a more definitive portrait of the family will come from the rest of his siblings.	2003-05-02
US	50703543	R1MW53T5YDNWU6	1567995888	106484011	Country Churches	Books	5	8	8	N	N	STUNNING SANCTUARIES	Country Churches moves beyond the boundaries of just being a book profiling church architecture. In this wonderful tome, Raymond Zirblis captures the beauty and simplicity of country churches in the rural communities of Europe and the Americas. Unlike their larger counterparts in the city, these churches evoke a powerful sense of spirituality and grandeur in their simplicity.<br />     In order to appreciate the aesthetics of these churches, the author gives us a brief history of church architecture's early development. From there we are taken on a panaromic tour of how these different architectural styles translated themselves into rural settings. What you see is simply stunning.<br />     The photographs of the churches are fantastic. You get the feel of the sacredness and warmth of these varied sanctuaries that are out in the middle of nowhere. In Latin America you see the impact of European church styles melded with the indigenous culture to form an architectural synthesis of spirituality. I found the pictures very moving and powerful in their display of these house of worship. As we go from country to country, the author explains the historical context which impacted upon the building of these edifices.<br />       This is an excellent book for those who are curious about church architectural in general and country churches in particular. If you are a photography buff who specializes in taking pictures of churches, you will appreciate the beauty displayed in each photo. I thoroughly enjoyed this book and highly recommend it for your spiritual enjoyment.	2003-03-15
US	50703543	R2E7E9PVPKS8UL	0743442520	706444543	Six Easy Pieces: Easy Rawlins Stories	Books	3	11	11	N	N	OVER EASY	Fans of the Easy Rawlins Series will be thrilled with this collection of seven short stories, six of which were culled from previous works and one that is original. This collection of short stories are unified by several common threads. First, we have Easy's attitude of grief and guilt over the death of his friend Mouse. Second, Easy's relationship with his girlfriend, Bonnie, is on the rocks. He isn't sure if he is the man for her. Third, we find Easy's deep concern over his adopted son, Jesus, who has dropped out of school. Add all of those elements together and you have a novella with intriguing possibilities. The short stories stand alone but taken as a whole the reader sees another side of Easy.<br />       Although it was fun to re-read material published before, I had moments of disappointment with this volume. The constant repitition of facts that you already knew was an annoyance as you moved from story to story. In many cases the story ended to abruptly with you wondering how did Easy get from point A to point B so quickly? In truth I wished that this volume had been an entirely new collection of Easy stories and not just a compilation of older ones. Don't me get me wrong. The book is good but fans of Easy's deserve something new and fresh.<br />       Readers who are unfamiliar with Easy will find great collection for them to whet their appetites for more of his adventures. Those of us who are oldtime fans will like the work for its collector's value and will yearn for something new from the author's pen.	2003-02-17
US	50703543	R2GXZ8DEVEQWBP	0448095017	605847199	The Secret of the Old Clock (Nancy Drew, Book 1)	Books	2	9	11	N	N	WATERED DOWN	The Secret of the Old Clock marks the debut of Nancy Drew an outgoing vivacious teenage sleuth. She is bold, tenacious and<br />dedicated the righting the wrongs in her world. Alas, this edited version from the original 1930 text is definitely watered down. Our heroine, is not as assertive as she was in the original and her character is flat.  The original 1930 version is better written, adds more drama and puts you in the context of the times. It also shows the human side of Nancy that is not captured in the present version.<br />  Okay, so this is not the \\"real\\" Nancy Drew. Should I have my child read it? By all means. Although it lacks the depths of the orignal it is entertaining mystery literature for those under the age of nine. They will love the exploits of Nancy and their imagination will run wild. I do recommend that they read it and if  at all possible the original. The contrasts of the two Nancy Drews is a mystery within itself.	2003-01-30
US	50703543	RFR792KBMH7T6	1578064708	889176838	Spike Lee: Interviews (Conversations With Filmmakers Series)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	SPIKE SPEAKS	Shelton Lee is the most controversial film maker of his time because his work defies convention and upsets the conventional values of Hollywood. The spotlight has shone on Spike Lee since his &quot;She's Gotta Have It&quot; exploded on the screen. Spike Lee  is a film maker par excellence and is this book we get an opportunity to hear his voice dealing with the entire corpus of his work since 2001.<br />     Spike Lee Interviews is a collection of interviews dating from 1986 through 2001. They are originally reprinted in the form in which they appeared; hardcopy, television and on line. In them we get to hear the ideas, opinions and reflections that Lee has about his craft, the criticism of his work and the need to confront the racist myths prevelant in the film industry. His words are sharp, biting and reflective.<br />     In perusing this book you will see the development of Lee as a film maker and astute businessman. He refuses to co-op his integrity with Hollywood depictions of Blacks and yet he is able to use Hollywood to get some of his pictures made. Lee also uses unusual ideas and film techniques that many of his peers won't touch. He is not afraid to be uncoventional in his story telling nor in his use of new technological forms.<br />      I enjoyed his repartee with the interviewers regarding his controversial image. Spike says his critics need to look at his work rather than him. He doesn't mind talking about his beloved Knicks but moves beyond the game and tells about the exploitation of players and the system. He admits his mistakes in portraying Black women as one dimensional.<br />       In reading this book you will get a multideminsional view of a film maker who has opened a new chapter in African American cinematography. Lee picks up the ball where others left off and challenges the whole idea of what it means to make a film. You will enjoy his ideas and have a deeper appreciation of his work.	2003-01-20
US	50703543	R301F5N89QW9DV	047157712X	572317359	365 Surprising Scientific Facts, Breakthroughs, and Discoveries (Wiley Popular Science)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	FUN FACTS	Science buffs, trivia enthusiasts and plain ordinary curious people will enjoy this book. Contained in this wonderful volume are amusing curiosities about science. And guess what? You don't need a Phd in the field to enjoy this great guide. It brings out facts that will surprise the uninitiated and will broaden your knowledge of science in its varied fields.<br />     Yes, there are 365 facts given in a question and answer format. These questions cover topics of medicine, engineering, mathematics, chemistry, astronomy, physics and other scientific disciplines.<BR>     You will enjoy this book which makes science accessible and fun without being bogged down in dense theories. The author doesn't compromise on the principles of scientific discoveries nor does she &quot;dummy&quot; down some of the more complex areas of scientific breakthroughs. She is clear, to the point and covers the essentials in the book's question and answer format. You will be pleased.<br />      The only &quot;negative&quot; about the book is that its black and white illustrations doesn't do it justice in the plant science section. Another quirk is that scientific facts are in continuous change. Thus the knowledge presented in the book may be dated given the vast amount of information that we receive over the years. In any case this book gives you a great appreciation for the world of science and will stimulate you to explore it even further.	2003-01-10
US	50703543	R2BK5F9PM4YRK8	0684873052	229737222	Excelsior!: The Amazing Life of Stan Lee	Books	2	3	7	N	N	BETTER THAN NOTHING	At last, comic book fans get the opportunity to explore the life of comicdom's greatest creator and promotor, Stan Lee. Stan, along with his writing side kick George Mair gives us an &quot;inside&quot; glimpse of his life and the world of Marvel Comics. His wit, spicy sarcasm and brilliant style comes through the pages except for one thing; you get to know little about Lee and a lot about the comic book industry and even at that the book falls short on providing the reader with the intrigues of the comic mongols.<br />     For those looking for a definitive biography or autobiography of one of comic's greatests masters, Excelsior comes as a big let down. Sure Stan gives us the tidbits of his life and hard times but there is very few lines of introspection about his work and the impact it had on his life. Side kick George isn't any better in providing the reader with a historical context and  interpretation of the forces which shaped Stan.<br />     Okay is the book all that bad? No. If you know nothing about Lee, Marvel Comics or the evolution of the comic industry, Excelsior is a fair book for initiation into the realms of comicdom. Younger readers would certainly appreciate its style that will immediately captivate their attention. Collectors of comics and its assortment of memorabilia certainly need this book as part of their collection.<br />       For those who want a detailed and historical analysis of the life of Stan and the world he created, forget it. Excelsior won't feed your need. Yet in spite of that it is better than nothing so by all means give it a reading.	2003-01-09
US	50703543	R15X8QQ6TX5P0B	0525940014	71311925	A Lifetime of Riches: The Biography of Napoleon Hill	Books	3	13	15	N	N	PIONEER OF SUCCESS	When I first saw this book on the shelf I didn't hesitate to purchase it. I was an avid reader of Napoleon Hill's books and was always curious about his life. That curiousity has been somewhat satisfied by reading this biography of him written the executive director of the Napoleon Hill Foundation.<br />     A Lifetime of Riches chronicles the roller coaster life of one of the pioneers of success programs. Born of modest circumstances Napoleon Hill rose to become one of the greatest promoters of personal and material success. His rise to fame didn't come easy. In fact he would fail many times but would get right up again for another try.<br />     His tenaciousness, vision and audacity to try new ideas are the hallmarks of a personality that wouldn't accept defeat. Authors Michael Ritt and Kirk Landers provide the reader with a view of a man who had both his faults and weaknesses. Hill is obsessed with his mission for success and unfortunately placed everything else (including his wife and children) as third or fourth place. He paid for that mistake but still was able to bounce back in his later life.<br />     I certainly enjoyed this book for its realistic portrayal of Hill (he was both saint and sinner) in both his good times and bad times. From his life the reader can learn it is never to late to start over regardless of age ( this was true of Hill and his father), financial setbacks or other impediments. Hill's life sets the standard for success even if it appears to allude you in time it will come.<br />     A Lifetime of Riches is a good book to get some idea of Hill's life but it is not very detailed. Much of its information comes from Hill's unpublished &quot;autobiography&quot;. Absent are any interviews or insight from those who worked with him. Very little is mentioned about his estrangement with his father and brothers or his importance in history as part of the motivational industry that is now a thriving industry. Perhaps someday more details will begiven but for now enjoy this work of one of life's greatest motivators.	2002-12-30
US	50703543	R38PSO7ITLLAHY	1568982925	981977449	Rural Studio: Samuel Mockbee and an Architecture of Decency	Books	4	12	14	N	N	ETHICAL ARCHITECTURE	In this stunning book the reader is taken to the most impoverished areas of Alabama and witnesses an astounding change in the architectural landscape. Homes that were once inhabitable shacks have been transformed into aesthetic buildings that have been transformed into true homes. Samuel Mockbee, his students, and his organization \\"Rural Studio\\" have made this transformation possible.<br />     Rural Studio is a picturesque story of social consciousness taking place through the vehicle of architecture. Mockbee believes in making a difference in the lives of poor people who are in substandard housing. Alternative materials ( such as corrugated cardboard) and the recycling of cast off wood, tin, windshields and other unusual resources are used for construction at an affordable price.<br />     I enjoyed the philosophy that Mockbee instills in his students not by preaching but by having them engage with their clients. His students learn that poor people are like people anywhere with their hopes and dreams. In listening to their clients his students learn how to build functional structures for them that meets the needs of the clients. I was overwhelmed by the before and after pictures of their various projects and was impressed with the use of alternative materials for insulation and windows.<br />     Rural Studio is indeed doing good work and its founder and students are to be commended for their commitment to social change. I must admit that I also have some misgivings about the work. Mockbee's students (at least the ones portrayed in the book) are white upper to middle-class students of architecture who are helping impoverished African-Americans. Why aren't there African-American students in his group? These good works have a smack of paternalism no matter how well intentioned.<br />     It is good to build affordable housing for people. Yet, what about the impoverishment of the community that doesn't allow for the upkeep of the housing? What good is it to build a home only to see it fall into disrepair because the people are unable to pay for its upkeep? These are the haunting questions that were always in the back of my mind.<br />    Rural Studio will not give you the architectural plans of the homes built but shows the transformative spirits that come about when people are treated with dignity and decency. This is a book about relationships and an architecture that moves beyond the functional mode of plain buildings. You will be moved by the projects and people.	2002-12-26
US	50703543	R32YNO4NV091OJ	0670882313	803958982	Martin Luther King, Jr. (Penguin Lives)	Books	3	20	24	N	N	ANOTHER VIEW	Since his death in 1968, a plethora of books about Martin Luther King, Jr. has inundated the shelves of bookstores. Every angle about his life and work has been explored, critiqued and analyzed. Is there room for one more as we continue the quest for making King's dream for equality a reality? Penquin Lives says yes as it presents a brief biography of Martin Luther King, Jr. as seen through the eyes of a white southern reporter during the era, Marshall Frady.<br />     Mr. Frady was one of those reporters assigned to interpret and bring some sense of clarity to the public about the rising civil rights movement and its major leader, King. As a young reporter, he carried out his mission and now as an older statesman of the press he gives us another view about King, his work and his impact on the national scene.<br />     Martin Luther King, Jr. focuses on the success, failures and conflicts of a leader caught in a movement that swept him up into the pinacles of history. We see another dimension of King who is vain, unorganized, guilt ridden and a womanizer. His lieutenants are egotistical, mystical, self-serving and dedicated to the cause of freedom. King's genius in keepint these varied personalities in check for a greater cause is a testament to his genius.<br />      Frady really doesn't tell the reader anything new about King that hasn't been said before. He merely encapsulates previous information into a format that is readily accessible to those who want to get a brief history of King and the movement but can't endure reading works of countless pages of information. In this Frady excels and does a fine job of being brief but doesn't offer the reader in better insights about the man.<br />      I would recommend this book to those who want to get a brief snapshot of King from the perspective of a white southerner. Otherwise I would encourage readers to explore other books that give a more in depth look at the complex life and work of Martin Luther King, Jr.	2002-12-26
US	50703543	R38QZX89VNDYMV	1929619081	737582604	Eat Mor Chikin: Inspire More People: Doing Business the Chick-fil-A Way	Books	3	28	31	N	N	EAT MOR INSPIRATION	If you are looking for a primer of how to make big bucks in a business, you won't find it here. If you're looking for an example of a business grounded in Christian values and principles then look no further. Eat Mor Chikin is an inspirational book which shows that you can utilize Christian principles in your business and make a profit.<br />     Eat Mor Chikin: Doing Business the Chick-fil-A Way is S. Truett Cathy's story of how he developed a business that instills loyalty, achieves higher sales and gives hope to thousands of people who enter its sphere. Cathy has presented us with a book which is more biographical in nature than purely business oriented. <br />     Mr. Cathy came from a family that was plagued by poverty, disease and other problems that would break the wills of most people. Yet through his faith, good people coming into his life, and taking advantage of unexpected opportunities, Truett Cathy became a pioneer in the fast food business in the southeast. His struggles, triumphs and Christian principles are an inspiration for anyone who feels they are unable to make it in this tumultous world of business and life. Faith is the cornerstone of Mr. Cathy's success.<br />     I certainly enjoyed the book. His book is filled with anecdotes and other intriguing stories of his life. Unfortunately the reader doesn't get a comprehensive look at Mr. Cathy's life nor his business. In fact most of the book focuses on the charitable works done by his organization and himself. You will not find any detailed discussions of his business and its operation. As a book on business it falls short on those details. It would have been good if they were elaborated on especially for those who want to incorporate Christian values into all aspects of their business. Except for those two flaws Mr. Cathy has presented the reader with a book that deserves our attention in conducting business in life and at home.	2002-12-11
US	50703543	R320SAMMDLXGO	0762712708	483475890	More than Petticoats: Remarkable Georgia Women (More than Petticoats Series)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	GEORGIA'S WOMEN	Southern women  have been stereotypically depicted as delicate, demure,and passive objects placed on a pedestal for adoration. They were not to be taken seriously. Sara Hines Martin completely destroys such a fictitious view through her insightful vignettes of thirteen Georgia women. These women were determined, creative, shrewed and had a self-confidence that puts even modern women to shame. <br />     Who are these women? They are Native-American, African-American and Euro-American women from Georgia who defied all the odds. Some are household names while others are lesser known but the qualities all of them share are the ability to survive, making the best out of adversity, and creating a lasting heritage that survives today.<br />      Meet Leila Ross Wilburn, the second woman in Georgia to be licensed as an architect. Such a woman in a field dominated by men was a rarity and this woman proved that she could not only compete with her colleagues but succeed way beyond her imagination.<BR>      Listen to the voice of Gertrude Pridgette who helped spread the sound of a distinctive art form beyond the confines of Columbus, GA. To many she was unattractive, flashy, and bisexual but she could belt out those Blues. We know her as Ma Rainey, the Mother of the Blues.<BR>       <BR>      These are just a few of the colorful and imaginitive women profiled in this book. Rebecca Latimer Felton faced the destruction of her home, death of her children and great poverty. Yet this same woman became the first female senator representing Georgia.<br />      This is an enjoyable book that gives excellent profiles on these outstanding women.  Sara Hines Martin provides the reader with a good working bibliography of each woman for those who desire further study of these great achievers. I highly recommend it for young people and adults who are interested in the legacy and great achievement's of Georgia's women.	2002-12-02
US	50703543	R3594MJF5IQQH1	0451933028	867268465	The Green Mile - Six Volume Box Set	Books	3	0	7	N	N	ANOTHER READING	There isn't any doubt that Stephen King is the master of his craft. The Green Mile is an intriguing story with various levels of issues that make you take a second look at how we treat one another. As much as I liked King's novel there were areas in it that weren't up to par in his writing. His book deserves another reading and focus on those weak areas.<br />      The setting takes place in the south during the depression. If you read the dialogue of the characters carefully you would have no idea that they're southern. Mr. King has failed to capture the cadence, inflection and beauty of the varied southern voices. Everyone sounds alike. Yes, Mr. King does attempt to provide us with the distinct voice of the Cajun dialect but even that falls short.<br />   Mr. King does a good job in pulling out all of the stereotypes in his characture of John Coffey. Coffey is your typical childlike, dump, passive and sexually charged negro.Such a character has been a stock and trade of southern white writers. King continues on with the tradition. Coffey is the sacrificial negro lamb who is always helping others to his own detriment.<br />      John Coffey supposidly committed a hideous crime yet the racist attitudes of the people were not in keeping with the times. In fact their reactions were pretty mild. I found it hard to believe that the reader was transported to the south where racial tensions, lynchings and the overall atmosphere would be quite unpleasant for any African-American. An example would be a review of the Scottsboro case during that period.<br />     Overall, King has provided the reader with a good story that touches on sexuality, cruelty, injustice, punishment of the innocent and our culpibility in the sordid affairs. If Mr. King had of avoided stereotypes, made the setting more realistic and captured the southern voice, his work would have been even better than what was presented.	2002-11-30
US	50703543	RVK3CIEUZDHQ0	0743212541	518408771	Faith And The Good Thing	Books	3	4	7	N	N	THE UNENDING QUEST	Faith Cross's mother is dying. Before she releases her spirit, the woman entreats her daughter to search for the \\"good thing\\" then she dies. Thus begins the metaphysical journey of Faith as she attempts to find the good thing. Author Charles Johnson introduces us to a woman who is not satisfied with the medicrity of life but is determined to find something far more meaningful. She wants the good thing but finding out what it is becomes her dilemma.<br />     Faith is led into poverty, prostitution, and false promises that look like the good thing but disappoints her every time. This tale is told through the  lens of folklore, philosophy<BR>and religion. Johnson's attempt to weave all of these elements together confuses and weakens the story. The reader is never sure of just what is happening with Faith.<br />      Johnson's characters spew out philosophical musings about the good thing but are unable to sort out their own lives. Although the musings are good, they fail to capture the attention of the reader and fall flat. I enjoyed Faith who like many of us are on the same journey seeking the good thing. Defining what the good thing is and getting it are the challenges that faces everyone. Unfortunately, Johnson was unable to clearly articulate this through this tale but it was a good effort.	2002-11-30
US	50703543	R2U4ZHUDARHLAE	1573221392	431945972	Edgar Cayce: An American Prophet	Books	4	10	10	N	N	AMERICA'S SEER	Edgar Cayce, one of America's well known clairvoyants, is given a thorough examination in this new biography by Sidney Kirkpatrick. Gone is the myth and legend of the man who has captured the hearts and minds of many New Age adherents. In its place, the reader is given an objective overview of this fascinating man whose mystical powers still baffle those of us today. Just who was this Edgar Cayce? What impact if any did he have on the lives of others and of our nation? While reading this book you will be astounded with the answers.<br />     Journey with the author to Hopkinsville, Kentucky where the Cayce clan and related kin provide the foundation for this young seer. We find a family of tobacco growers, misfits and others who share some strange gifts that are known but kept under wraps. Into this environment comes Edgar Cayce who grows up in a conventional lifestyle of his time. Known as a quiet boy and prone to day dreaming there isn't anything extra ordinary about this child.<br />     Kirkpatrick humanizes Cayce. We see the various facets of his life. He has a inferiority complex, a deep love of the Bible, struggles with his gift and is artistic. Cayce struggles throughout his lifetime to help others. We also meet the celeberties, entrepreneurs and government officials who also take an interest in Cayce. Their motivations in using this young man are not always pure or in the best interest of Cayce and the work he is called to do.<br />     I found it fascinating to read the interviews from the entities that possess Cayce's body and give out advice. Even in the written word their presence is frightening and powerful. It is amusing to hear one of them chastise Cayce for not following its advice and its annoyance in answering the &quot;stupid&quot; questions of people who just don't get what is said.<br />     The book also looks at the loves in Cayce's life most notably his relationship with Gladys Davis, his secretary, and a woman he met during his engagement with his fiance. You find a complex man tied up in some strange love triangles. This is an enjoyable work which puts him in the context of his time and also focuses on the investigation of spiritualism, clairvoyance and other mysterious phenomena of the day. You get a clearer historical perspective of what were the attitudes of the day. Oddly enough Cayce was praised and reviled during his day. America was both repelled and attracted to this seer.<br />     Edgar Cayce:An American Prophet is insightful, funny and historical in its presentation of a figure who led an unconventional life during the early 20th century. You will enjoy his story and gain a better perspective on the life of America's greatest Clairvoyant.	2002-08-26
US	50703543	R2AT7BRHYCBPGU	0679450149	702064794	The Writer's Desk	Books	3	6	6	N	N	WRITERS' WORK	Writing is an act of love from the many authors who have devoted their lives to telling us their stories. Now, for the first time we are given a glimpse of the varied environments in which they work through the lens of Jill Krementz. This wonderful photographer unfolds before our eyes the work habitats of some of our most noted authors. You will be delighted and pleasantly surprised on seeing them at work.<br />     Some of the writers come to work dressed as blue collar workers ready to sweat and give their full attention to the task at hand. Others bring their pets who provide inspiration and sharp criticism of their owners' efforts. What is most amusing is peering into a writer's workspace and seeing it filled with junk. How can they possibly write in all of that disarray? Only heaven knows.<br />     Krementz's pictures captures the essence of a writer's work in their faces, space, and devotion to detail. The places and spaces in which they work are diverse but through that diversity art is created. After each photo, the writer gives his or her philosophy about how they work and why they work. The details they give are not long. The pictures tell the story rather than the sparse text.<br />     The Writer's Desk is an excellent book for an aspiring writer or for one who wants to see their favorite author in a different way beyond the written word. The book doesn't pretend to be a biographical work about the writers and moves beyond being a mere picture book. Through the eye of Krenentz's lens you will see, experience and appreciate the craft of writing in a different way.	2002-08-24
US	50703543	R7587QZ5OMK5V	0679450041	383312801	The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	SIMPLY AMAZING	If you are a lover of comic books or one who enjoys an exciting story that takes you from reality to fantasy then this is the book for you. Never before had I encountered a novel which chronicled the fictionalized lives of two writers of comic books back in the days of its genesis. Kavalier & Clay reads like a biography, history, and fantasy all rolled up into one.<br />     Meet Joe Kavalier a young man who managed to escape from Prague just as Adolph Hitler's regime began swallowing up easter Europe. Joe goes encounters many obstacles until he lands into the crowded home of his cousin, Sammy Klaman also known as Sam Clay. The teamup of these two relatives results in the creation of new feature comics  resulting in making their bosses wealthy while they get exploited.<br />     Ah, but this tome is more than the story about comic artists and illustrators during their hey day. You see the deep loneliness and broken dreams of two young men. Sammy struggles with his sexuality while Joe contends with his inability to save his family. Both young men have high dreams in life only to see them postponed or given up. Joey sometimes goes into the world of fantasy as an escape artist to bury his anger while Sammy buries himself in work. For both, the comics become their salvation and through that genre the two attempt to maintain some control over their lives.<br />     I thoroughly enjoyed this unique work of its time as I was taken through the history of comics, the challenges of being an immigrant, the hurt of World War II and the varied characters that impacted upon our heroes lives. You won't be able to put this book down which is a brilliant tale of courage, perserverance and triumph.	2002-08-12
US	50703543	R30YVCM220KIE4	158322274X	606680978	When Harlem Nearly Killed King	Books	4	6	8	N	N	SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT	The stabbing of Martin Luther King, Jr. in 1958 appears to be a small footnote in Civil Rights history.  When closely examined the incident opens a can of worms that had many serious implications for all those involved. What was important about this failed attempt on Martin Luther King, Jr.'s life? Hugh Pearson takes us back on that ill fated journey in Harlem where he unravels the intrigue surrounding King's assault.<br />     By 1958 King was becoming the heir apparant of Civil Rights eclipsing old timers such as Walter White, A. Philip Randolph and other notables of the movement. His youth, popularity, eloquence and successful leadership in the Montgomery Bus Boycott had the world's eye on him. Two prominent white politicians who needed black votes for governor also had their eye on him as a support for their campaigns. New York's Black leadership also was scruitinizing King who appeared to be a potential threat to their power.<br />     Politics, jealousy and the medical ineptness of a senior doctor almost got King killed. The action of one deranged woman culminated in a chain reaction whose outcome was unknown. King was stabbed and all of the world was looking at New York, the politicians and the medical establishment as they reacted to the incident.<br />     Pearson probes through the intimate details of all the key players. He shows us the petty politics of the black leadership and unravels the lies of a doctor who claimed he \\"saved\\" King. We look at a venue of actors on stage trying to become the star and we wonder how in the world King survived? This incident was not a mere footnote in history but shows how the political and social mechanism of the time made people react to an incident that may have caused further problems and set backs to the movement. Join with the author as he probes the darkside of this incident and provides us with the fresh light of truth.	2002-08-10
US	50703543	R1BIXYQ6YPYMS0	0910707413	811199239	Helping Gifted Children Soar: A Practical Guide for Parents and Teachers	Books	4	17	18	N	N	EXCELLENT GUIDE	Do you suspect that your child is gifted? If your answer is yes then this book is one that you must have. Helping Gifted Children Soar is a primer to help parents identify, resource and support the needs of their gifted child. The authors give parents a step by step approach on what to do and advise parents on how to best work with school systems and teachers to further enhance the education of their gifted child.<br />     This book is great. It identifies the difference between a child being just smart in comparison to gifted. It shows how giftedness can be hidden under other physical disabilities and the emotional immaturity of the child. What is even more important are the tools it gives parents to empower themselves to become an advocate for their child in the school system. Teachers and administrators many times are ignorant about gifted children. With this resource (and it lists others as well) the parent is enabled to begin the discussion about giftedness and can partner with the school to make the necessary adjustments in the gifted child's education.<br />     I highly recommend this book for all parents who suspect that their child is gifted. This guide will give you the basics of what to do and how to go about working your way through the school system to provide for your child's needs. Helping Gifted Children Soar does not address the issue of giftedness for those who home school their children. Nor does it deal with giftedness in private secular and religious schools. Its scope is limited to the public schools but the information on identifying giftedness, helping your child learn and finding a suitable curriculum is information that can be used in any setting.	2002-07-30
US	50703543	R2G5Q2QEDCILQP	0060936479	964458066	Hue and Cry: Stories	Books	5	18	20	N	N	A CLASSIC WORK	Hue and Cry marks the debut work of James Alan McPherson which is soon to be a classic for all times. In this collection of ten short stories, our author, takes us on a road trip of human frailties and possibilities that are timeless. Way ahead of its time during its publication in 1969, McPherson deals with the issues of homosexuality, betrayal, pride and hypocrisy. His characters are unapologetic in their view points and refuse to fit into the stereotypes of their world.<br />     This work is a wonderful of mixture of modern day folk tales told in the vernacular of the 1960's. A Solo Song:For Doc records the folk tale of a Pullman Porter who fights the system that tries to retire him. It reminds you of the older folk tale of John Henry which has become ingrained in American culture. An Act of Prostitution deals with the absurdity of our \\"criminal\\" justice system. Even during sentencing, a prostitute can break the court up into raging laughter. All The Lonely People has us look at the desperation of a homosexual man who craves companionship and the sexual games that people play on one another.<br />     Throughout this work you see men and women play out their prejudices, dreams and failures on one another. You won't find the \\"happy\\" endings to these tales. Instead McPherson has his characters continue the struggle as they go over the next hurdle of life. They are courageous, willing to take risks but most of all they never give up. <br />      You will enjoy this book which is destined to become a classic work that everyone should read.	2002-07-29
US	50703543	R2O7Q4PV5PTF53	0962959111	198126739	Freedom Challenge: African American Homeschoolers	Books	3	20	22	N	N	THINK ABOUT IT	Education has been a primary concern for African-Americans throughout their history. At one time they were denied schooling, then had to accept segregated schooling and are now left with public schools that are failing. If you are an African-American parent concerned about your child's future, homeschooling may be a viable alternative.<br />     Freedom Challenge is a compilation of interviews of parents and their children who have chosen home schooling and achieved remarkable results. The parents give the reasons why they chose this alternative after having gone through negative results in the public and private school sectors. These individuals share a diverse background of education and vocation. At some point in time they discovered that the schools were failing them and decided to do something about it. The young adults, teenagers and younger children share their experiences in going through home and public schooling. Their sensitive insight and enjoyment of their present schooling affirms the need for such an education that empowers them and their parents.<br />     Schooling has become a political football as the country debates about vouchers, testing and holding teachers accountable. African American parents need to consider what is in the best interest of their child. Homeschooling may be the answer. This book can serve as a catalyst for you to make such a critical decision in your child's education.<br />     Although the interviews were informative and the parents views enlightening I felt that the text didn't provide the parent with enough information about the process of home schooling. What curriculums are available that are Afrocentric in nature for a family to follow? How do African American children compare with their white counterparts who are also home schooled? What are the obstacles that African-American parents need to watch for when preparing to home school their children?<br />     Home shooling isn't anything new. Mass education as we knowit is a &quot;recent&quot; development. Education was at one time only for those in the elite social groups of society. In choosing home schooling know the needs and maturity level of your child. Make sure that you and your spouse are ready to give your full commitment in making it work and above all do research, reseach and more research about homeschooling. This books doesn't provide all of the answers but serves as a catalyst for your child's future education.	2002-07-28
US	50703543	R1YEXCLBC11I7N	0316073016	859287908	Bad Boy Brawly Brown (Easy Rawlins Mystery)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	DOING A FAVOR	It is 1964 and Easy has settled into a comfortable life. All is going well until an old friend asks a favor of Easy. His girl-friend's son has been caught up in some radical group. She wants him to return home.  Can Easy make it happen? Never one to turn down an opportunity for adventure Easy accepts and finds himself involved in more trouble than anticipated.<br />     Easy's task is to track down the young man Brawly Brown. While going through the process old wounds surface. He feels guilty about the \\"death\\" of his friend Mouse and is at wits end when his son Jesus decides to drop out of school. To further compound the agony, he finds himself caught up the cross hairs of a special police unit determined to destroy Brown's group. An assortment of bodies with Easy at the scene further complicates his mission. How will he be able to deal with so much pressure?<br />     Those are just a few of the issues Easy faces in this new book. Mosley was at his best in presenting an Easy who is ready to get back in the swing of things. We see him dealing with a new generation of young radicals who want to get things done even if they have to resort to violence. Brown's being caught up in such a group is a challenge for Easy sympathizes with this generation although he may not agree with its tactics.<br />      As usual you will enjoy this story but it is not the best work of the series. Mosley fails to develop the particular philosophy of the \\"radical\\" group. You don't get the feel for their anger or their cause. Although Brawly Brown is the subject of the search, he is not a major character. He comes across as a young man totally confused. Easy is trying to save him but is Brown worth the effort? Is he really for the cause or is he just another thug? You don't get the motivation or flavor of Brown's actions. Bad Boy Brawly Brown falls flat.	2002-07-25
US	50703543	R2BIY1V6NXU3RZ	0816025495	843427965	Black Scientists (American Profiles)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	AN EYE OPENER	There have been a few books written about Black scientists that are as interesting as the one before you. Black Scientists profiles eight African-Americans who made significant contributions to the field of applied and pure science. Some of the individuals profiled are well known while others have faded into the backdrops of history. These African Americans who took on the field of science had to overcome many obstacles in obtaining their education, finding positions and acquiring funds for their research. All of them met the mark of excellence and we have become the beneficiaries of their work.<br />     Unlike other biographies of Black scientists, the author dispenses with the well worn myths surrounding these figures. She focuses on what the individual actually contributed to their field other than being the \\"first\\" Black. You are in for a surprise when you find out the impact that one man had on the field of medical education for Black doctors and nurses. You will be astounded at the work done in chemotherapy, chemistry and computer science by highly assertive African-American men and women.<br />      Learning about these great people is an eye opener. Science is a field wide open in which anyone can participate regardless of race. Their inspiring achievements and contributions tell us that African-Americans can and will continue to make strides in the area of science. Read these stories and consider walking in their footsteps.	2002-07-23
US	50703543	R1QVXNWCOTC377	0809292246	187434165	Up from the Ghetto	Books	3	1	1	N	N	BEYOND POVERTY	Written in 1970, &quot;Up From The Ghetto&quot; profiles the story of Black men and women who rose from the poverty of their childhood to become great leaders in their various fields. James Brown, Jesse Jaclspm and Gwendolyn Brooks are some of the familiar names that are found in this work. Each person in the book shares their story of success and encourages young Blacks to achieve regardless of any barriers that may come their way.<br />     The stories in the book deal with  a generation of Blacks who were able to take advantage of the opportunities of the civil rights movement of the 1960's. They lived in the world of poverty and segregation and were able to see the possibilities when America was undergoing its greatest social upheavel since the Civil War. Their testimonies inspire hope and encourages a new generation not to succumb to violence.<br />      I enjoyed the stories of these men and women who moved beyond the ghetto. They're optimistic and full of hope. Although born in poverty they wouldn't allow their environment to control their individual goals. In reading their stories you can can insight about the building of character, faith, hope and the tenacity of never giving up.	2002-07-23
US	50703543	RW0QC8P11WLDL	1884956173	686328364	Damn! Why Didn't I Write That? How Ordinary People are Raking in $100,000.00...or more Writing Nonfiction Books & How You Can Too!	Books	3	15	32	N	N	RAKING IN THE BUCKS	Have you ever dreamed of having your own book published but allowed the thought to dwell in your mind? Well dream no longer and make it happen. Marc McCutcheon opens up the box of secrets on how to make a living in writing non fiction books. You don't have to have an IQ of 140, be of a certain age or for that matter have a bunch of degrees. Yes, you can make money from writing a book and our author gives sound tips on helping you to make it happen.<br />     Learn the basics of researching the niche in which your book may fall and take advantage of the knowledge. Fend your way through determining the need for an agent. Concentrate on how to negotiate a book contract, doing a promotion and writing a book proposal. Marc tells it all in providing potential book authors with compact and concise information that includes examples from his own experiences. <br />       All of this pragmatic information will inspire you to get serious about publishing your book. If other authors can do it and make a decent living, so can you. Don't pass this book up.	2002-07-22
US	50703543	RX2LK363ZH154	089296765X	145992076	Dead Midnight (Sharon McCone Mysteries)	Books	3	0	3	N	N	COPING WITH LOSSES	Suicide leaves a bitter taste in the mouth of those who are left behind. Sharon Mccone finds herself dealing with the suicide completion of her brother Joey but a new case calls for her attention. Ironically, it too involves a completed suicide of a young man destined for great things. Roger Nagasawa was a driven young man who worked for an on-line magazine. He was determined to be the best at his game after countless failure but something drove him over the edge.<br />     His god-father and parents believe that his company somehow is responsible for putting so much pressure on him until he broke. They hire McCone to investigate. Whatever information she can find may be of use in a possible lawsuit. She uncovers siblings who are angry about Roger's actions and colleagues at work who love to play mind games. These mind games are supposidly played for creative stimulation but wind up leading to a murder.<br />     Enter into the world of Dot Coms where your on-line company is at its peak at one moment and then goes bust the next. Such is the case at Nagasawa's job where staff is treated like crap but those in the top echelons are in a feeding frenzy. What did Roger discover about the company that drove him to end his life? Sharon is on top of this case in attempting to find some answers.<br />    Dead Midnight takes us through the corruption of on-line companies, failed dreams and guilt ridden families. As Sharon uncovers the layers of anger and guilt in Nagasawa's family she finds out she must deal with her own. The deeper she probes the more dangerous it becomes to the point of putting her journalist friend J.D. in peril. McCone makes us deal with the issues of suicide, trust and unbridled greed that permeates itself in our lives. You will find yourself glued to every word of this thriller.	2002-07-21
US	50703543	R1NCH3802G24LW	0822533030	695185487	A Sure Thing?: Sports and Gambling (Sports Achievers Issues)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A LOOK AT GAMBLING	Gambling has always been around in our culture. People bet on horses, dogs, play the lottery, and sports. Gambling in its varied forms has been used to fund both government and religious institutions. At times it was illegal to gamble but today everyone partakes in the gaming industry and the most notable group are teenagers.<br />      A Sure Thing? explores the sociological world of gambling in all of its facets. It gives a brief history of gambling, lays out the views of those for and against legalized gambling, shares the stories of young people addicted to gambling and opens up the question of whether sports gambling should be legalized. This is an excellent book in introducing to teenagers an area of life that has become so common place in our society.<br />      Author, Jeff Savage, lays out the issues, shares the negative and positive impacts about gambling and leaves the reader much better informed about the gaming industry. He also brings up the paradox of gambling being legal for some things and yet for sports, it is illegal because it can undermine the \\"integrity\\" of the game.<br />      If you never discusssed the moral, ethical and political issues regarding gambling with your teenager, this is the book to have. Savage is not preachy in his presentation but is not afraid to share the hard facts of gamblings destructiveness on teenagers, sports figures and adults. His bibliography provides further resources in exploring the issue in depth.	2002-07-21
US	50703543	R2718WYK8IQ7LB	0743210964	309729991	Start Something: You Can Make a Difference	Books	4	4	4	N	N	GREAT ADVICE	Parents and their children will love this great book where Earl Woods challenges young people to make a difference in their lives. As the father of champion golfer Eldrick \\"Tiger\\" Woods, Earl Woods shares his motivational philosophy of life for building character. He gives young people good solid advice in dealing with life's obstacles and coming out a winner.<br />     Earl Woods lays down those old fashioned values of honesty, courage, integrity, respect and others that are essential in living in today's world. Each section begins with a question or comment that Earl explains and later has Tiger share his own thoughts about the subject. Thus you have a beautiful combination of father and son encouraging young people to achieve excellence in their lives. It is moving to read Tiger's sharing of his relationship with his father.<br />     Get this book as a gift for that special young person in your life. Use it as a resource in motivating your students and raising your children to become responsible men and women. Our children are precious jewels. They will make a difference in this world.	2002-07-20
US	50703543	R4NAZOH6ALMYU	0385313667	190979319	Total Recall (A V.I. Warshawski Novel)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	CHASING RABBITS	Private detective Victoria Washawski has an easy task. Her client has been denied an insurance claim that was supposidly paid out ten years ago. Off she goes to resolve this matter but not before she detours into Chicago politics, the puzzling behavior of her friend Lotty, a so-called holocaust survivor, a few murders here and there and insurance fraud. To make matters worse she makes all the people associated with her quest for justice resentful and angry at her.<br />     Whew, what a full plate of intrigue. Sara Paretsky has given us a great story but we find Victoria going around chasing various rabbits leading to no where. The convoluted twists and subplots get to become so confusing to the point where you're wondering exactly what is this story about. The answers can be just as puzzling...<br />     You are lead from one thing to another not sure of the point of Paretsky's plot. Eventually you may come to some resolution if any at all. In spite of the rabbit chasing the story is pretty interesting.<br />     One thing I found interesting is her portrayal of the Black characters in this book. Ms Paretsky certainly is unable to capture the nuances of African-American dialect which is very apparent in her work. She peppers her characters with the stock Black stereotypes of men and women. They come across as surly, ungrateful, greedy, criminal and overly sensitive to race. Ms Paretsky needs to do more research in portraying Black and other non-white characters in her work. Sticking to stereotypes just doesn't work.	2002-07-20
US	50703543	RHMNX5K88SC9B	1890927015	187555413	Tiger Woods	Books	3	1	1	N	N	GOLF'S PRODIGY	Everyone is in a feeding frenzy to learn more about Golf's new sensation, Tiger Woods. Jack Clary satisfies this hunger by producing this wonderful picture book outlining Tiger's career from his earliest days to his winning of the 1997 Masters Championship. If you are a follower of Eldrick Woods' career, you won't find anything new in terms of his accomplishments. What then, distinguishes this book from the plethora of texts written about this golf prodigy after his Master's Win?<br />     Clary provides us with outstanding photographs of Tiger along with exciting prose giving us an interpretation of his  golfing skills. Of greatest interest is the author's detailed description of Tiger at the Masters. We are taken through round by round of the play. Clary gives a brief summary of what Woods did at each hole. You almost feel as if you are there as our author tells you the story through words augmented with the color photographs. When you walk on the course with Woods, you feel that you are in the presence of a person who will totally change how golf is played.<br />     The Master's description alone is a reason to have this book in your personal library. Clary did an excellent job in bringing you into the game and in enabling you to develop a great appreciation for one of Golf's greatest players.	2002-07-19
US	50703543	RCZLEUKLJALZY	0312964374	178076040	Tiger Woods: The Makings of a Champion	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A CHAMPION RISES	At age twenty-one, Eldrick &quot;Tiger&quot; Woods became the youngest individual to win the Masters Tournament. This young phenomena ushered in a new age for golf and sports fans all over wanted to know, who is this rising champion? Sports writer Tim Rosaforte provides that answer by penning one of the first biographies of Tiger.<br />     Does a young man of twenty years of age deserve a 70,000 word biography is the question Rosaforte raises. His answer is a resounding yes as he presents before the phenomenal rise of golf's greatest champion of all time. He tracks the early career of Woods from his Junior Golf years all the way up to his 1997 victory at the Masters. Through his journalism you get a comprehensive overview of his career.<br />     Rosaforte divides his book into three sections which entail a biographical sketch of Woods' parents and their impact on him. His second section is devoted to his wins in junior golf, high school and college. Finally we deal with Tiger coming out on his own by turning professional. As one of the first biographical books on Woods, the author does a decent job in giving us insight on this remarkable golfer.<br />      I would caution readers to not look at this book as the &quot;definitive&quot; work about Woods. Rosaforte admits that he didn't have the help of the Woods family in compiling his work. In many instances the author's voice takes on a self-serving attitude as if his writing is responsible for taking Woods to greater heights. Although he shares with us little known facts about Woods such as his mugging at Stanford and problems with the NCAA regarding his eligibility, we are left without a clue about the young man himself. His golf achievements and statistical records are reported but what is absent is the inner life of Woods and little interpretation as to his importance for golf's future years. Perhaps Tiger and his family were wise not to work with the reporter.<br />     Regardless of those faults Rosaforte's book is worth having in terms of getting some insight about Woods as a champion golfer. In this area the author does a great service but as a biographer he falls short of the task. Obtain this book as a collector's item on one of Golf's finest players.	2002-07-17
US	50703543	R1BHGG12LVN0NZ	0671656686	94995052	Women Who Write: From the Past and the Present to the Future	Books	4	1	1	N	N	WRITING WOMEN	Just what is it that makes a woman take the risk and write her words on paper for all to see? Lucinda Smith explores this question in this slender volume \\"Women Who Write\\". In it she features female writers of the past and present who embarked upon writing as their career. Their thoughts and views of the writing process are presented to the reader through biographical sketches of the writers of the past and interviews with contemporary female writers.<br />  This book is inspirational and encourages young females to think about pursuing writing as a possible career. It is inclusive of writers in poetry, novels, plays, journalism and screenwriting. Each woman through Smith's interviews gives the reason why they write, the obstacles they endured to break in their field and how they balance their writing lives with a family. Author Jane Goodwin declares she fell into writing by accident. Pulitzer prize winning playwright Beth Henley describes her transition from acting to play writing while Maxine Hong tells us she was born a writer.<br />  The stories shared are entertaining and useful as each woman gives advice to those wishing to take up the pen. Lucinda Smith also provides the reader with pragmatic advice on pursuing a writing career and puts the writing woman in a historical context as we see women's literary development throughout the years. This is an appropriate book for young girls to get started in pursuing their goals for a writing career.	2002-07-15
US	50703543	R2T5WMNI7PVRXB	0062701789	482891227	Training a Tiger: A Father's Guide to Raising a Winner in Both Golf and Life	Books	3	28	29	N	N	THE FIRST COACH	Children are first introduced to a particular sport through their parents. If they show promise or enthusiasm in the sport their parents are their main supporters. Eldrick &quot;Tiger&quot; Woods was blessed to have parents who recognized his gifts and supported him in developing his talent as a golfer. You too, as a parent can do the same for your child as you review the lessons that Tiger's father imparted to him.<br />     Earl Woods shares with his techniques in both raising and training his son, Tiger, as one of the greatest golfers of all time. He describes how to start off your child in golf at an early age, developing drills for them in their practice and keeping them focused on their game. What I found most important about Earl Wood's presentation is his stress on building a solid relationship with your child. Once your child learns to love, trust and feel secure with their parent then there isn't anything that he or she can't handle. Golf is just one means of developing the discipline, integrity and positive behavior that one needs throughout life.<br />     This is not a detailed book on how to play golf. Earl Woods doesn't go into an analysis of his son's techniques. He gives the basics and his own methods which worked with Tiger. His voice is one of advice to parents in training your child for golf. It is up to you to accept or reject Earl Woods' pointers.<br />     After reading this book will your child turn into another Tiger Woods? Probably not because each child is unique but you and your child will develop a better relationship with one another due to your mutual love of the game. Incorporating the principles of Woods' instructions can serve as a launching point<BR>in enabling your child to improve on his or her game. Woods stresses throughout the book that as a parent you can use golf to raise a child who will be a champion in life. Golf is the vehicle but the foundation is the love of the parent and child.<br />      If you are introducing golfto your child I highly recommend this book. It gives solid and practical advice in getting your child interested in the game. Earl Woods also provides a list of associations and clubs that sponsor golf lessons and tournaments in developing young players for the sport.	2002-07-12
US	50703543	R16O7JV7VDSX8P	0807113433	90331423	Lillian Smith, A Southerner Confronting the South (Southern Biography Series)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	CONSUMED BY CONVICTION	Lillian Smith is known by most people as the author of Strange Fruit, the compelling story of a doomed relationship between two southerners; a Black woman and a white man. Upon its publication it stirred controversy in the south and propelled Smith into the swirling cauldron of racial debates. This wasn't the first time Lillian Smith expoused her views about the south's apartheid. Throughout her life she challenged the convictions of her southern region and refused to condescend to the conventions of her time.<br />     In this volume of the Southern Biography Series, Anne Loveland takes us into the heart and mind of one of the south's most outspoken crusaders about race. Dr. Loveland presents us with an intellectual biography of a complex woman who was far ahead of her time in racial, feminist and political issues but never felt the affirmation she deserved. The Lillian Smith presented by Loveland is uncompromising, used discretion in presenting her views, attempted to form coalitions and was a prolific writer.<br />     Here we find a woman consumed by a passion to confront the wrongs that made one less than a human being regardless of race. Even though civil rights was her platform, Smith saw herself moving beyond race. In this book we find a tireless worker and a person who is uncompromising in her views to the point of isolating herself from those who believed in her cause. Smith could become so extremist to the point of being just as bad in attitude as those she opposed. Although a prolific writer she was never taken seriously as a literary writer. She was praised for Strange Fruit but merely because of the racial conflict it brought out.<br />     Dr. Loveland did an excellent job in presenting the complexity of this woman filled with energy in her fight against injustice. What is missing is Lillian Smith, the personal woman. What were her deepest feelings? Did she have any lovers? What was her life like beyond civil rights? Was her relationship with Paula Snelling a lesbian one? Why wasn't she recognized as a significant literary figure? The personal woman is left out giving you a one sided picture of a woman who is totally cerebral in her views on life.  Loveland recognizes this and attributes it to Smith's deep sense of privacy. Unfortunately we have missed a balanced view of a very special woman.	2002-07-06
US	50703543	RSMNKWCG1DNG9	0684844621	39567293	Tiger Woods	Books	3	1	1	N	N	HIS BEGINNING	Sports Illustrated put together a collection of some of its articles chronicling the rise of Tiger Woods from the years 1992 through 1996. Writers such as James Garrity, Jaime Diaz, Tim Rosafore, Rick Reilly, William Reed, and Gary Sickle share their special insight on this young golf phenomena. Everyone has their say in this three act drama.<br />     Act I is aptly titled The Kid. Here we are given a snapshot of the young Tiger learning his trade while moving up in the ranks of golf history. Act II concerns itself with the young man on the rise as an Amateur. The reporting tracks his comebacks, successes and the never ending question of when he will turn pro. Act III, The Pro, introduces us to a new Tiger. Tiger has moved beyond his peers on the amateur circuit and now has debuted as a professional. How he does and what he will do in the future is yet to come as we read the articles concerning his progress.<br />      This is a good picture book. If you want to start a conversation about Tiger Woods and his rise to golf fame, this is a fair start. The articles aren't all that exciting unless you love to hear the same old jargon and statistics about Tiger, time and time again. The book's photography is good and enjoyable. Sports Illustrated threw together a picture book of a rising star. The magazine could have done better but what you have is decent coffee table reading.	2002-07-05
US	50703543	R1YNS9JCTFDHCJ	0743222342	707462482	The Chosen One	Books	4	6	9	N	N	GOLF'S ANNOINTED	Over the past century golf has produced some of the greatest players of all times. None, however, have reached the caliber of skill and magnitude of Eldrick \\"Tiger\\" Woods. In such a short time and at an early age Tiger has raised the sport of golf to a higher level. Who is this young man who has broken golf records, establishes new ones and inspires a new generation to seriously take up the sport of golf?<br />     David Owen deals with that question in this well written and concise book about Tiger Woods and his impact upon golf. He examines Woods' training, his place in history, his impact on the sport and the public's fascination with him. As a contributing editor of Golf Digest, our author doesn't inundate you with Woods' golf statistics. Nor does he give you an in depth expose of Tiger's life. Owen gives a positive even handed treatment of Woods life and career. He is just as fascinated with this young phenomenon of golf as we are but doesn't worship Woods.  He respects and admires this young sportsman.<br />      I enjoyed this book because it enlighten me about the development of Woods' career. Tiger comes across as a disciplined young man who is highly competitive, focused and has high expectations of himself and for those around him. His aura and the way he has carried himself forces his opponents to improve their game. Tiger's impact upon golf is immense as Owen has shown throughout the story.<br />       This is an excellent book for fans of Woods, golf enthusiasts and those who love sports in general. I am not a sports fan but I picked up this book in passing. I was impressed by Woods' character, discipline and commitment. I highly recommend this book which has given us a snap shot of a true sportsman that adults and young people can admire and emulate. Woods has made himself one of the greatest golf players of all time but he has transcended the game. He serves as an example of excellence for life whose lessons we can certainly take to heart.	2002-07-01
US	50703543	RL9F182CZA3TO	B000065V1T	350976698	A Portrait Of Southern Writers	Books	4	0	0	N	N	PENETRATING PORTRAITS	What can a picture tell you about a person? The answer is quite a bit as you view these penetrating portraits of southern writers. A writer's tools are words to convey a story. Photographer Curt Richter uses his tools of lighting, mood, camera and the subjects themselves to reveal a visual story whose impact goes far beyond words.<br />      Over a seven year period, Curt scoured the country taking pictures of those writers associated with the south. His labor was not in vain for he blessed us with outstanding visual views of these writers not seen before. These are not a compilation of formal studio portraits nor are they casual snapshots. You are given a series of sepia toned pictures whose faces, postures, hues and eyes that reveal something more about the subject that meets the eye.<br />     Ralph Ellison looks like an elder statesman as he peers into the lens. Larry King appears to have a haunting quality as his off focus face gives us a smile. Eugene Walter looks like a supplicant in prayer or is he just fooling us? Let your mind and imagination decide as you see this wonderful display of southern authors. For those of you who are collectors of some of their works, you will be delighted with their pictures.<br />     Robert Coles has written a foreward to the book introducing us into the world of southern writers and the culture of the south. Ann Beattie provides us with her observations regarding this collection through her afterword. Now relax, open this book and reflect upon these gifted writers of prose and poetry who have shared their wares with the world.	2002-06-26
US	50703543	R23IIIVTK4HV5C	0380729059	565361159	The Kidnapping of Aaron Green	Books	3	2	2	N	N	WHO IS AARON GREENE?	The Aaron Greenes in this world are always with us but we don't know it. We can't remember their names nor their faces. They are the invisible nobodies that inhabit our world. One of these nobodies, Aaron Greene, gets kidnapped and his disappearance sets off a chain reaction of events which range from the strange to the bizarre. What would happen if a nobody was kidnapped and a ransom demanded? Would you pay for his release? Think about it.<br />     Terry Kay does think about it and involves us in a mystery set in Atlanta. Our protagonist is a mere John Doe for most of us but when you get a washed up reporter involved named Cody Yates and his friend, detective Victor Menotti, all hell is breaking loose. It's Cody's taped voice that demands a ransom yet Cody has never even heard of the boy. <br />     Travel along the road of media frenzy as members of Cody's profession go stalking after the story like a dog after a bone. We're lead into layers of past murders, cult-like activity and political grandstanding all because of the disappearance of a boy who is all too soon forgotten.<br />     Mr. Kay has written a potentially thrilling story but it stops you dead in your tracks. Although set in Atlanta you don't get the feel or nuances of being in a southern metropolitan area. In fact you could be in New York city and not notice the difference. Even though his characters are believable there are some things that they do that wouldn't make sense in reality or fiction. Another major weakness is the fact that there isn't a motive for kidnapping Aaron who appears willing to embrace his kidnappers.<br />      The Kidnapping of Aaron Greene is story that had potential but slowly came apart as it neared the end. I was disappointed about the ending. There were to many loose ends. Other than that Mr. Kay will but you through your paces in the suspence and drama.	2002-06-25
US	50703543	R10UAPXJXDLSMK	0802801870	651395742	Flannery O'Connor: Images of Grace	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A WRITER'S JOURNEY	At her death in 1964, Flannery O'Connor left a small canon of works that made her one of the most critically acclaimed authors of her time. Author Harold Fickett and photographer Douglass Gilbert have teamed up to produce a work that explores O'Connor's development as a Christian writer.<br />     Fickett does a superb job in giving us a biographical view of her life and a detailed analysis of her works. He does a thorough exploration of her work through a Christian lens. Through his meticulous care, Fickett brings out the symbolism, concept of Grace, redemption and salvation that is found throughout her work. He looks at her life and shows how her religious faith as a Catholic served as the impetus for her work.<BR>O'Connor's mission was for readers to see the grotesque and ugly that we in our fallen state share. The ugliness of our human condition is not the final answer for through her work we are shown how God's grace permeates even the darkest hearts.<br />     Douglas Gilbert's black and white pictures of the south and its relationship to O'Connor's work is a compliment to the text. You can feel the soul of the southerner. You can see the human and  natural devastation of man through these moving pictures. The two men have done a splendid job in presenting a critique of O'Connor through a Christian perspective.<br />     My only criticism of the work is that Fickett overstates his case of O'Connor's Christian vision. He sees Christian themes in every detail of her works to the point where you become lost in attempting to focus on the main theme that she is trying to get across.<br />      This is an excellent book for Christian writers and readers who can gain a greater appreciation for O'Connor through the author's analysis and the photographer's pictures. It is also a good work to have in your library for those who have studied O'Connor's works but have failed to consider her Christian perspective.	2002-06-24
US	50703543	R2365U7O7PPC22	0770107044	252118974	Quicksilver (Nameless Detective Mystery)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	THE LAST SOLO	Against his better judgement and the advice of his friends, Nameless decides to take on a partner, his old friend Eberhardt. Gone are the fourteen years of him being the lone wolf detective  but before he makes the final commitment he has just one more case to solve.<br />     It is an easy case. Find out who is sending unwanted gifts to his client. What could be simpler? As Nameless finds out there is no such thing as a simple case. His clients previous lovers and aquaintances leads him into the world of Japanese American culture. Travel with him to San Francisco's Japantown where  he finds himself confronting the Yakazu, the equivilent of the Italian Mafia. While there he finds the  hacked up body of one of its members which further leads him into a search where bizarre things from the past make their mark.<br />     Pronzini takes us on a great adventure with Nameless in exploring the secrets of the relocation centers for Japanese-Americans during World War II and the psychological damage that experience has on the present. Nameless encounters a web of interconnected murders which lead back to his client. Why they are happening and the connection to the relocation camps is a mystery that only Nameless can solve.<br />     Quicksilver is a thriller which will keep you guessing but will also make you aware of the shameful incident in the United State's past. Nameless takes us down this dangerous and convoluted pathway where there may not be an easy return. I enjoyed this thriller because it wove an important historical event with the plot. I appreciated the tension built up in the characters  as they deal with theirnown demons.  Pronzini's characterization of Japanese Americans can come across as stereotypical but the basic plot remains strong. You will find yourself totally immersed in this great adventure of Nameless's last solo case.	2002-06-23
US	50703543	R2EQMEFBZXM3BU	0770104320	687505029	Labyrinth (Nameless Detective Mystery)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	COINCIDENCES	Eberhardt, Nameless's police friend calls him to a crime scene. Does he know the victim? He never saw her in his life. Why then is his business card in her possesion? Nameless hasn't an answer but the question nags at him even though he has another case to keep him occupied.<br />      Nothing can go smoothly for Nameless. His twenty-four hour surveillance job ends up with a murder but the suspect didn't commit the crime but is charged anyway. Nameless does some more digging and before he knows it three more murders occur all of which point to him and the orginal victim. How will Nameless be able to unravel this labyrinth of mayhem and murder as he moves through its corridors.<br />      Labyrinth takes us through that valley called coincidence, syncronicity and intuition. How is it that unrelated incidents of foul play are linked together in a haphazard way. Nameless tries to use his cold logic to bring the pieces of the puzzle together but finds himself frustrated at every turn. He is forced to think outside the box if he is ever to solve these series of crime. Like Nameless, you too will find yourself looking for the \\"connections\\" which makes this work of Pronzini's more fun and challenging.	2002-06-23
US	50703543	R1PTII3K4M16KH	0713412062	610478831	Grant as Military Commander (Military Commanders)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	ANOTHER PERSPECTIVE	Ulysses S. Grant had attended West Point but didn't exhibit any sterling qualities as a student. He served in the Army for a decade and ended up a clerk and alcoholic. For all intents and purposes Grant was an abject failure until March of 1861 which would change his life and make him one of the greatest generals of all time.<br />     Grant As Military Commander is an thorough analysis of Grant as a commander from the perspectivd of Sir James Marshall-Cornwall, a general in the British Army. Sir James explored Grants background, early campaigns, achievements and failures. As someone who served in two world wars, Sir James took into consideration all aspects of Grants campaigns and personally visited the battle sites, studied Grants tactics and reports. <br />     Many books about the Civil War and the tactics of the generals become boring pieces of literature particularly when dealing with the analysis of the strategic and tactical aspects of the battles. Sir James takes away this boredom and endowes it with life. You see and feel why Grant moved in a particular way and why he did a certain thing. You also find out that the conduct of the war was much more than winning battles. Dealing with personalities and the logistical side of the house was even more challenging in a war that tore a nation apart.<br />     Grant is viewed as a man who was able to deal with the personalities of his superiors and able to get what his Army needed even in the most dire situation. As a commander, Grant exceeded all expectations even from his former West Point classmate Robert E. Lee.<br />     This is a refreshing portrait of a military commander given from another perspective. The lessons learned from Grant's experiences are invaluabe in today's military as we deal with strategic, tactical and logistical problems not too far removed from this time.	2002-06-20
US	50703543	RPOW12ILMY3Q5	0345444957	605284938	Growing Up X	Books	3	7	7	N	N	HER OWN STORY	You know the story of her father. The Autobiography of Malcom X is forever instilled in the American literary canon of biographical works. At the time of his assassination in 1965 not much was known about the family he left behind. What happened to Malcom X's wife and daughters? Now for the first time we hear the voice of one of his daughters, Ilyasah Shabazz, who tells her own story of growing up as a daughter of Malcom X. What were the challenges for this young woman with such a well known father?<br />     Ilyasah Shabazz gives us a glimpse of her life after the death of her father. For many it will come as a surprise. Her life was far more conventional than one would expect from the daughter of Malcom X. Ilyasah was a child of the Black middle class who went to private schools and was given opportunities that most of her Black peers never had. Her greatest challenges comes in her college years where people expect her to be a certain way because of her father. She decides to be herself and is true to her word.<br />     Growing Up X gives us information about Betty Shabazz's struggle to raise her children as a single parent. If anything this book is a testament to Betty Shabazz who wouldn't let anyone or thing beat her down. Unfortunately we don't get much insight into the relationships of the sisters, the estrangement of Malcom X's family from his wife and daughters and the psychological impact both parents had on the children. Ilyasah's life comes across as just another story of a middle class Black woman who has her ups and downs but just happens to be the daughter of Malcom X.<br />      Growing Up X is a good book for those who want to get a little bit more knowledge of the Shabazz family. In due time perhaps a fuller biographical work will be done on the children but until then we have this starting work of Ilyasah. Meet her on her own terms and glean from her the realities of being a child of someone great.	2002-06-20
US	50703543	R1HAGI3H72VFQQ	0393321509	292245576	Why Moths Hate Thomas Edison: And Other Urgent Inquiries into the Odd Nature of Nature (Outside Books)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	THE WONDERS OF NATURE	Remember when you were a child filled with curiousity and wonder about nature? You asked many questions such as why do ducks float, do people go crazy during the full moon and why does do collect in the morning? All of those were great questions and some of them may or may not have been answered to your satisfaction. Now your children are asking the same questions and what are you going to say?<br />     Never fear, dear friends. Outside Magazine's &quot;The Wild File&quot; has provided us with a book answering those various hard questions that we have about nature. Why Moths Hate Thomas Edison is a compendium of the best of The Wild File column. You are presented with  five files dealing with various forms of nature. Each file has a question/answer format and cites the person who asked the question.<br />      I thoroughly enjoyed this book. Some of the questions sounded stupid but in reality made sense. The answers were informative and hilarious. You would be surprised over the number of experts in such esoteric fields of wildlife. For example, one informant researched the number of pushups that lizards do in their exercise regimine. Yes, there are people who really do that.<BR>      What is also great about this book is its brevity and accessibility. You can share it with your children as they ask you the great questions of nature. You can spend time finding those answers to questions you had as a child. This is a delighful read. So go out and find out why lizards do pushups and why llamas spit.	2002-06-13
US	50703543	R1RE8ZMUC5H6TS	0813122082	872069534	Multicolored Memories of a Black Southern Girl (Women in Southern Culture)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	THE FIRST	Picture yourself in a SUV roving through out the countryside. You take in the view of the countryside but are in such a hurry to reach your destination to the point of not appreciating what you've seen. Kitty Oliver's autobiography is very similar to the above experience. She takes you through the roads, streets, detours and valleys of her life never stopping to give you a full appreciation of this native Floridian.<br />     As the first generation of Black students to integrate the University of Florida in Gainesville (1965)Oliver certainly has a story to tell. It is one of turbulent times and great transitions as she leaves the segregated community of her youth and enters into a whole new chapter in her life. Oliver shows us her fears, drive and hope that she has for the future that was denied her elders. Now it is up to her to make a difference.<br />     Kitty tells of her quest in finding her roots from the exploration of her Geechee background to her attempts to become a bridge to her estranged father's family. You meet up with a varied mix of people in her community (train workers, cooks, teachers,etc) who held things together even in their limited world. She also dispels the myth of the united Black community during segregation. You meet with Black people who are class conscious, want to keep the status quo and are insanely concerned about skin color. Her Jacksonville home reveals a diversity of Blacks who have their own opinions and mores that are not necessarily what one would want them to have.<br />     Such a coming of age story has great potential but Oliver lets us down. She takes us on an excursion of her stream of consciousness as we roam from one subject to another. Her thoughts appear disconnected and you do get confused as to how she gets into school in one moment and then is married in the next without anything in between. She rarely talks about her own family except to mention her biracial adopted daughter and son. What about her husband and the lives they shared together? Was it unable to survive in an integrated world?<br />     Oliver goes on and on about multi-culturalism as if she just discovered it. You get a sense that she doesn't fully appreciate who she is and at times you wonder how much she has assimilated (her word) in the white culture. <br />      Despite those flaws her work is an enjoyable read of one reminiscing about those FIRSTS who broke the racial barriers and ushered in a new era. Her story is one that should be read, reflected upon and appreciated for its one particular viewpoint of a time gone bye.	2002-05-28
US	50703543	R3770MO9F3SKA3	0375507477	141548990	A Song Flung Up to Heaven	Books	3	1	1	N	N	CAPTIVATING	If you thought I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings was good then you will be equally satisfied with this newest piece in Maya Angelou's autobiographical collection. On this particular journey, we are taken to the turbulent years of Malcom X and Martin Luther King, Jr.'s assasinations. The deaths of these two leaders deeply impacted the life of the author who had been engaged by them to do work. Her anguish over their deaths and  their meaning for her life was a moving experience.<br />     We are also taken through the streets of Watts. Smell the  pungent odor of wood and rubber as the city becomes an inferno. Maya is a witness and shares the sounds, smells and feel of what went on during the riot. With grace and dignity she manages to come through the chaos. She lets us in on her stuggles to find work and makes us laugh over the games of her estranged African lover. We also see how she deals with her rebellious teenage son who wants to be on his own.<br />      Certainly Ms. Angelou has written a captivating autobiography that is lyrical in its prose and accessible to any reader. I reading this portion of her life during the middle nineteen sixties.  The major fault that I find with this work is its brevity and lack of depth. She doesn't go into any great detail describing her feelings about her fallen mentors. You keep wondering what more does she have to say about them. Her relationship with her parents, brother and son are also given a limited look. What is also missing are those parts of her life from the time of her publishing of Caged Bird and the present. I'm sure she has much more to tell but hasn't shared it with us. I wanted to know more about those years and wished she could have accommodated me and her readers.<br />     As such this is a good story although much more could have been told. This is a must buy book for those who are collectors of her work. It is also a good book for young people to look over the life of one who has stayed the course.	2002-05-24
US	50703543	R2P7GC96XG925B	0397324243	135714744	Where Angels Glide at Dawn: New Stories from Latin America	Books	3	2	2	N	N	TALES OF LATIN AMERICA	If you want to introduce children to the literature of Latin America, this volume of short stories is the best resource. Where Angels Glide at Dawn contains ten short stories by Latin America's modern authors. The authors are from Puerto Rico, Peru, Panama, and other Latin American countries. Thus the reader is given a wide range of cultural perspectives in reading the stories from such a diverse group.<br />     Some of these stories are political in nature suc as The Rebellion of the Magical Rabbits which will keep you bowling over in laughter. Another story will show you at what lengths grown ups will go through to provide something spectacular for children. Still another story will deal with the hurt and war torn actions that go on in a country and its impact on the people.<br />      You will find this collection interesting. Isabel Allende provides the book with a delightful introduction that carries us into the imagination of the authors. These are perfect bed time stories to read to your children but can also be used for reflection for adults.	2002-05-22
US	50703543	RXH7IAKMPP5HB	0452269571	906896717	Bastard Out of Carolina	Books	5	10	11	N	N	MISPLACED LOVE	Meet the Boatwright family.  They are true southerners who are tight with each other.The women are hardworking,tender, under appreciated and prone to self loathing. The men raise hell, drink up a storm and change women as often as they change their underwear. Born into this family is the girl Ruth Anne, known as Bone, who opens up before us a family that is loving and protective but at the same time mean and ready to chop your head off.<br />      Bone is the illegitimate offspring of Anne whose defiant nature and refusal to allow her daughter to be judged as a bastard speaks of a young woman full of strength. Yet as we look through Bone's eyes, we view another woman. This woman is more girl at times than an adult. Anne's desperation for love at the expense of her daughter is a sad commentary on a woman who doesn't have self worth.<br />      Bastard out of Carolina is a story of a southern dysfunctional family told through the perspective of the young girl Bone. She will show you her ornery yet loving family and share with you her guilt and pain from abuse. Dorothy Allison's language brings you into the heart of Bone's thoughts as you laugh and cry with this young girl who endures the ups and downs of her family's life. You get a picture of a group of women trying to be loved and in many ways falling short of accepting themselves for who they are.<br />     This is an enjoyable story with all of the elements of southern humor and terror. You will laugh at Bone's religious experiences and her brief alliance with a mean spirited albino. Your heart will find itself turning cold upon meeting her step-father, Daddy Glenn, a man who has no self esteem except when he takes out his rage on Bone. Anne will capture your heart for her defiance but when her weakness creeps in you wonder if this woman can be trusted.<br />       The Boatwright family, themselves are a force to be reckoned with if you mess with them. Each one has their own perculiar personality that impacts on Bone for the good and the bad. Drop what you're doing and read this marvelous book. It will speak to you in a moving way and you will never forget this young girl who makes it through life's tough journey.	2002-05-22
US	50703543	R3C5VLUAERFUWA	0884117049	665707566	Image of Josephine	Books	3	7	7	N	N	A PARADOXICAL LOVE	Josephine Oakly is opinionated, hard headed and intends to have her way regardless of who gets in her path. She is the heir of her grandfather's museum of art and is determined to insure that his artistic heritage continues. After all, only he understood what is good art and passed this quality down to his grand-daughter. What could those minions who staff the museum know about art?<br />  Enter into the intrigue and politics of an art museum and its warring factions who intend to overwhelm each other at any cost. Josephine is at the center of the conflict with her grand-father's staff and won't give an inch. A young man named Baily (Josephine's cousin) comes to the museum for emotional and spiritual solace only to find turmoil. He has his own demons to face from being wounded both physically and psychologically in the war (World War II). Will this war of artistic control make or break this young man as he attempts to come to terms with himself and his relationship with Josephine?<br />  Booth Tarkington has given us a tale with untold possibilities as a man looks through the image of a selfish woman and finds far more than what he bargained for. Baily is intrigued and repeled by his cousin who is his opposite in temperament. He must decide what he must do if he intends to become a whole man.<br />  The story was enjoyable but dragged on at times. Josephine's portrayal was at times too negative to the point of almost being unbelievable. You find yourself wondering what could Baily possibly see in such a woman? This is not one of Tarkington's best works but you get a taste of the intrigue and manipulations of people who think that they're superior to others. You are also given the pleasure of seeing beyond the images people portray.	2002-05-12
US	50703543	R2UOJH1AYFCOEV	0786864214	655467493	The Men of Brewster Place: A Novel	Books	3	6	8	N	N	THE MEN'S STORY	Brewster Place has been the home of many ethnic groups who have come and gone. Now crumbling and decayed this street shares with its readers the stories of its Black inhabitants. You first heard the story about the women of Brewster Place but now the men tell their story.<br />    Our narrator is Ben, the janitor, who takes us introduces the various men and their lives on the condemned street. The reader gets a glimpse of each man as they unfold before us the complicated circumstances of their lives. Gloria Naylor could have given the reader some great insights on the feelings and struggles of these Black men. What the reader is given are undeveloped characters who deserved more depth. The reader gets lost in attempting to figure out how and if these men relate to one another and to the street that they inhabit.<br />     Unfortunately most of the men come across as negative characters. Mooreland Woods is your stereotypical black preacher hungry for power. Ben allows his crippled daughter to be sexually assaulted by a white man while he does nothing. C.C. Baker is your typical drug gang banger out to make a name for himself. In fact the only good man of the lot is Abshu who tries to fight for the young people in his community only to find himself against a brick wall.<br />     As a reader you are so bombarded with these negative images that you wonder what is the message of hope, if any is given in this text? Is Naylor implying that Black men are unable to combat the physical, emotional and spiritual obstacles that come their way? If so, Black people are in trouble.<br />     It would be unfair to compare this work with its predecessor but Naylor could have done a better job in her characterizations in this work. The Men of Brewster Place is a weak work due to its failure to offer one the stories of men who should have more depth. I recommend this book for those who are Naylor fans and wish to see her development through the course of her writing. The book has itspossibilities but comes up short. Purchase it for a quick read. It is not the best of Naylor's works but should be examined for its weaknesses and strengths (if they can be found).	2002-05-09
US	50703543	R3DGQ8PNQ018JZ	0786707240	974989707	The Mammoth Book of Oddballs and Eccentrics (Mammoth Books)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	AMUSING WEIRDOES	Our world consists of those whom we consider &quot;normal&quot; and those who are not so normal. Who are these off centered individuals and what contributions have they made to society? You would be surprised! Welcome to this four hundred ninety-five page book which gives us a snapshot of eccentrics through the ages. You will laugh at their antics and in many cases will find yourself baffled over some of the positions in which they hold power.<br />     Karl Shaw does a remarkable job in presenting us with eccentrics who are in all facets of society. We find them in the religious, political, medical and military realms. This list just covers a few of the many occupations that eccentrics hold. Reading about them and their antics in amusing but sometimes you wonder if many of them were suffering from insanity or a personality disorder.<br />     One of the problems of the book is defining eccentricity. If a person does something strange are they on the road to insanity? What about those people who were thought eccentric but were far ahead of their time? When an eccentric does something that is harmful to himself or others is this not the time to have them seek professional help? These and other questions abound as you read their stories. Most are amusing but there are some tales that are sickening when the eccentric displays bizarre behavior. Overall, the author has provided us with some fun entertainment.	2002-05-08
US	50703543	R1XDI5JUNB5UYJ	0820317160	735289093	Deep South: Memory and Observation	Books	3	6	7	N	N	A VIEW OF SOUTHERN RELIGION	In this small book Erskine Caldwell shares with us his memories of his father and the world of southern religion. You are transported back in time where the more bizarre the religious expression was in the south, the better. Caldwell shows the excesses of religion and the struggle for southern churches to acquire more respectability as their economic status becomes more stable.<br />      Caldwell sounds like an amateur sociologist on his observation of the religion of his region. His ignorance is especially telling when he attempts to describe the life in the Black churches. He is obviously not a church historian. His critique on southern religion of his time is interesting but at times he beats the dead horse to the ground. He dwells to much on the excesses and doesn't see to much good.<br />      The most interesting character in this memoir is that of the author's father. Ira Caldwell,a presbyterian minister of a small sect of the denomination, is a man far ahead of his time. His social consciousness, intellectual acumen and liberal ideas were far out of step with the social and religious milieu of his time. How he survived in such an environment is an interesting story within itself. It is Caldwell's father who keeps you riveted in wanting to know more about his thoughts and ministry.<br />     Deep South is a good book to have in order to gain insight on Caldwell's thoughts about the church and religion. It is also a text which gives tribute to the work of Caldwell's father. For those wishing to gain some idea of southern religion during Caldwell's childhood, this is an ideal book.	2002-05-07
US	50703543	R11Y75JL3JEBZ9	0375705198	314955975	Amy and Isabelle: A novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	COMING OF AGE	Very seldom do novels portray the complexities of a mother and daughter relationship with such power and beauty. Amy and Isabelle is an excellent view into the internal ups and downs of a relationship that appears on the brink of disaster. Filled with secrets, mistrust and guilt both mother and daughter try to come to terms with themselves.<br />     On the surface Amy Goodrow is your typical teenager going through the usual  teenage rebellion. Isabelle, her mother, is clueless as to what is going on in her daughter's life and even in her own. Her aloofness, vain fantasies and blindness to her daughter's emotional and sexual awakening foreshadows the explosion that is to come.<br />      Mother and  daughter find themselves in a battle against one another. This is a battle of wills, a conflict of power and a need for both women to come of age in their emotional and sexual development if they are ever to survive. What a wonder and beautifully told story of a situation in which at some level all mothers have felt with their daughters.<br />       Amy and Isabelle is a story of renewing one's trust, allowing one's daughter to grow up and finally freeing yourself from the ghosts of the past. Amy and Isabelle unravel threads of their lives that have caused the two anguish. This is a novel that every mother and daughter should read as they go through the cycle of a girl's young womanhood and an adult's reclaimation of her lost girlhood.	2002-05-02
US	50703543	R1WHTB7FH3T2QI	0140263357	728659407	Comfort Woman	Books	4	1	2	N	N	SURVIVING ONE'S DEMONS	Akiko isn't her name but that doesn't matter to the Japanese soldiers. They only see her as a repository for their semen, sadistic pleasure and control. In their eyes she is nothing but an inferior Korean woman. She is a comfort woman.<br />     In this moving fictional memoir we are taken behind the closed camps of the Japanese where young Korean girls are provided to the soldiers as prostitutes. Akiko, now old, tells her story of those times and her Americanized daughter, now an adult, attempts to try and make sense of her mother's life. Mother and daughter tell their stories that weave in and out of a time of confusion, insanity and misunderstandings.<br />     How Akiko manages to survive through the turmoil of her life and maintain some semblance of sanity is the great challenge of this memoir. We get a taste of how a daughter is totally oblivious to her mother's life and is now forced to deal with some issues that she allowed to remain buried.<br />       Comfort Woman deals with the heavy issues of Japanese exploitation of Korean women but it moves beyond that historical fact. It reaches into the spiritual and psychological imprint of a woman who must find someway to survive and not allow herself to succumb to the definitions imposed upon her by the Japanese, her American husband and yes, her daughter. Her story is not sad but very intriguing as you move along with this woman in her various stages of change.<br />     The only &quot;weakness&quot; that can be said of this novel is that the two voices can be somewhat confusing as they go back and forth with their interchange. Akiko's voice should have predominated throughout the story with minimal input from the daughter. Akiko is a more intriguing character and you will be inspired by her courage.	2002-03-20
US	50703543	R1CI9NDXFQBP48	0802733530	795863668	In an Evil Time	Books	4	5	5	N	N	CANCER OF HATE	Jack Hollis has a problem. His daughter, Angela, is being stalked and threatened by her ex-husband. No amount of pleading, restraining orders or talking can keep him away. Jack must do something. After all, this is his daughter. He must protect her and his grandson from this savage animal.<br />     In An Evil Time is a gripping drama of a man forced to lower his code of ethics in order to protect his family. Jack's stress over his daughter's problem catapults him into doing things that would never come to his mind. Out of desperation he goes out to kill this crazed stalker only to find out someone has already done the job for him. Who? Jack suspects his own son Eric who had just as much hate for the man as Jack. Now Jack has to protect his son from discovery. <br />     If you have ever been stalked you can certainly identify with this family. Helpless and hopeless the law is impotent in stopping the harrassment of the stalker. Everyone goes through various stresses and strains until they reach their breaking poing. See a law abiding man turn into a cynical angry time bomb ready to explode. His anger is like a cancer which spreads throughout his family to the point where he makes various mistakes and assumptions that can destroy them.<br />     You will be intrigued by the social implications of stalking upon a family. Pronzini also shows us how psychological pressures can eat away at us to the point where we become the monster that we're trying to eradicate. Find out how Jack tries to rid himself of his personal and psychological demons.	2002-03-17
US	50703543	R28XWRHS9GTAHA	0786709421	371420800	Bleeders: A "Nameless Detective" Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	LETTING GO	A gun is placed on the back of your head. Click, nothing happens. You know that you're dead. Click again, and you're still breathing. The weapon misfired and you've been given another chance for life. Now what do you do with it?<br />     Nameless has faced death many times in the past but when he barely escapes from this episode of death he is forced to re-evaluate his relationships (with wife and daughter) and his professional life. Let's face it, at age sixty you can't do the things that you used to and still come out alive. Now what?<br />     Bleeders explores the changes Nameless has to go through in reordering the priorities in his life. The catalyst for this is a failed scam attempt on his client. Her crank head husband attempts to extort $75,000 from her. Nameless intervenes and recovers the money. Unfortunately he is unable to return it to his client who is found dead. On finding the body, Nameless is beaten and has the money taken from him.<br />     Thus begins a series of events that leads Nameless into the bottom dregs of society. Angry, he is determined to have justice done for his client as he goes on his determined search for the man who nearly killed him. We witness a detective who explores all of the angles and finds that he shares just as much in common with these bleeders than he is willing to admit.<br />     Pronzini does a good job in presenting us with a Nameless who for the first time in his life has to step back and say is this worth it? As an old man of sixty with a wife and child can he still afford to play this tough detective game which can result in far more than beatings? The answer to that question as you move through the undercurrents of criminal activity will surprise you. Once again, Nameless is a far complex character than we would have ever thought. Enjoy this great thriller.	2002-03-17
US	50703543	R2IEMPAYRIVGIZ	0312203799	178839381	Whispers in the Dark (Marti MacAlister Mysteries)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	SEVERED LIMBS AND FOOLISH HEARTS	Detectives Marti MacAlister and \\"Vik\\" Jessenovik have had their fair share of difficult cases to solve. Ah, but this one is the most bizarre. A severed arm is found in the woods and no identification can be made. As the two officers look for more clues they find out that other severed limbs have been found throughout the years, and like this one a body was never found. Is this the work of a seriel killer or psychopath? Surely Jessenovik's home town can not be the breeding ground for such a bizarre case. Or can it be?<br />     Marti and Vik find themselves digging into Lincoln Prairie's art community in order to unravel this mystery of a severed limb. As they begin their questioning unsavory stories emerge regarding some of the town's leading artists. How do they fit into this heinous crime if indeed they are involved at all? Our two detectives have their hands full.<br />     To make matters worse, Sharon, Marti's best friend allows her foolish heart to get involved with a man of whom she knows nothing about but is willing to give him her all. Mr. \\"Wonderful\\" has some permanent plans for Sharon and her daughter. Will they be able to see through him?<br />     Eleanor Bland presents us with two potentially hair raising stories that will keep you on edge. Unfortunately one ends abruptly while the other is not fully developed. A good story plot is sacrificed for a secondary one which leaves you saying ho, hum. If only..... Despite that major flaw, Whispers In The Dark will keep you in suspense and will show you the effects of the lack of self-esteem. Come join with these detectives as they unravel the hidden lives of murderers and the thoughts of their best friends.	2002-03-06
US	50703543	R3JPUKE9YUGCU0	037540032X	83055222	The Dancing Mind: Speech upon Acceptance of the National Book Foundation Medal for Distinguished C ontribution to American Letters	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A  MANDATE FOR A NEW PEACE	Acceptance speeches can be dull affairs. Those in attendance are expected to politely tolerate the honorer's remarks as they drone on and on about nothing. Such is not the case with Toni Morrison's acceptance speech for the National Book Foundation Medal. Ms Morrison's words are powerful, poignant and challenging. What she has to say is worth our attention and action.<br />     Entitled, \\"The Dancing Mind\\", Toni Morrison's brief speech points out two dangerous environments that readers and writers<BR> face in today's world. The first is the attitude that reading is a means to an end (merely for obtaining a trophy) and the second, that writing is a subversive activity that needs to be suppressed. She shares with us two anecdotes which illustrate these negative environments and issues a challenge to the Book World.<br />    Morrison challenges the book industry to become a conduit of dispensing knowledge to both the entitled and dispossessed. In doing so minds will be able to engage one another. She also puts out the call for the industry to foster a supportive environment for the writer free of private, governmental or cultural controls. Developing such a peace is one in which all of those in the book business should aspire.<br />     Her words forces us to move beyond reading for the purpose of taking a test or because it is a class assignment. We're sensitized to the fact that many writers are under oppressive regimes. A written word from them would mean a death sentence. Our reading and writing is a serious business and we who engage in the free sharing of thought need to take it seriously.<br />     Although this slim volume is only seventeen pages it is well worth having in your collection of Morrison's works. It is also a great gift book for those who want to engage their dancing minds.	2002-03-01
US	50703543	R1U8A9D2TXPUA0	0451197518	158155362	The Glass Factory (Filomena Buscarsela Mysteries)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	NOTHING TO LOSE	Sharp tongued and wise cracking Filomena Buscarsela has been given some sobering news. She has cancer and is not given long to live. She knows the one responsible for her slow lingering death. As her life is falling apart she is determined to get her revenge. She will stop at nothing to bring Sam Morse to his grave, for after all what has she got to lose?<br />     In this suspenseful story we see the vicious side of Filomena consumed by anger which borders on hatred. Forced to move in with her sister-in-law where the community's water is polluted by Morse's glass factory, Filomena drops all ethical restraints.<br />     Glass Factory is an intriguing story of environmental pollution allowed to go on for years. People are hurt but the corporate dogs escape punishment. Who will mete out justice for their crimes against humanity. Here we find a mother pushed to her limits and will stop at nothing to avenge not just herself but others who have been poisoned by Morse's greed.<br />      Filomena shows us what happens when one is pushed to the edge. We see a mother who loves her child but in her anger she carelessly puts her daughter in danger. Filomena also comes to the point of falling in love but once again her hatred is blinding her from a fulfilling relationship regardless of how much time that she has left. Is she becoming more like Morse is the underlying question and concern in this mystery? If so are the people any better off? Find out in this amazing thriller of revenge, greed and hate.	2002-02-28
US	50703543	R169L9FY8FJD92	0940450372	270984535	Flannery O'Connor : Collected Works : Wise Blood / A Good Man Is Hard to Find / The Violent Bear It Away / Everything that Rises Must Converge / Essays & Letters (Library of America)	Books	4	25	33	N	N	GOOD WORK BUT USER UNFRIENDLY	If you are looking for a comprehensive collection of Flannery O'Connor's works search no further. This excellent volume contains all of the best of O'Connor's writings in addition to her letters. You couldn't ask for a better resource for those who are O'Connor fans and for those who are teaching any courses about Flannery O'Connor.<br />     The major criticism that I have of this book is not content but the way it is put together. Ordinarily you would have an index in the front of the book. In this case the index is at the end and the stories are not in a systematic order to make it easier for the reader to find. I am surprised that there is not at least a one page introduction about the author to help put her work in historical perspective and introduce her to new readers. Those are the &quot;major&quot; technical flaws that I find with the book otherwise it is a must have volume to have in your personal library.	2002-02-22
US	50703543	R1RHO0R1CXE3UW	1555836372	313913479	Sticky Kisses: A Novel	Books	3	2	3	N	N	FAMILY TIES REGAINED?	Many things can break family ties. In this case it was Thom Sadler's announcement to his family that he was gay. A few weeks later his father dies, his mother blames Thom and sister Abby joins with her mother to flee Atlanta. Four years later Abby begins the process of fostering a reconciliation between mother and son when she learns her brother is HIV positive.<br />     Thus begins the saga of three individuals trying to come to terms with themselves and one another as to what it means to become a family. Abby's return home to Atlanta is just one step of many that she and Thom take to become reconciled with their mother. In attempting to do this the sister and brother duo form their own extended family. Meet Connie, a loud mouth, pain in the [butt] friend of Thom's who is afraid to face his own father. Then meet Veronica, a passing acquaintance of Abby's on an air plane, who works her way into the Sadler family with her on again off again husband.<br />     What we're giving is a wild mix of flawed people both gay and straight who attempt to find strength within themselves to face their personal challenges. You will find in this group hidden agendas, secrets and hypocrasy. There is also a deep undertone of obsession that runs throughout the story. You will be intrigued by Abby's changes and the web that she finds herself caught in.<br />     The biggest challenge of this novel is that you're left with the question of did the Sadler's actually reconcile or are they still playing their pretentious games? Another problem is Mrs. Sadler. You fail to get a full grasp of her character and she appears to go from one extreme of rejecting her son to another of accepting him. Is this believable? Veronica, Abby's self-proclaimed \\"friend\\" has weaved herself into the family very quickly. Is this a display of Sadler caring or shallowness? Overall the book is a pleasant read.	2002-02-22
US	50703543	R2W2GDL6PSAPSA	038072930X	571083724	Turbulent Souls	Books	4	8	10	N	N	COMING FULL CIRCLE	Paul and Veronica Dubner were the perfect Catholic couple. Paul was handsome and Veronica beautiful. Both were devoted to their faith and were blessed with eight children. But beneath that veneer of the happy Catholic couple was a secret. You see Paul and Veronica were actually Sol and Florance first generation Jews born into America. Their conversion to Catholicism and denial of their faith and heritage is the story of a generation of Jews trying to come to terms with their religion, heritage and country. For many of them the answer was conversion. <br />     Their youngest son, Stephen Dubner, in this sweeping memoir tells their story as well as his own as a young man returning to his Jewish faith that his parents abandoned. This saga of renewal and return will captivate you on every level and raises numerous questions regarding Jewish assimilation into a Christian  culture in particular a Catholic culture.<br />     Stephen is very straight forward in his telling of the story but at times you can feel his resentment and anger at his parents for keeping their heritage a \\"secret\\". Upon converting to Catholicism, Paul and Veronica not only changed their names and faith. They insulated and isolated their children in a world devoid of Jews and created their own reality. Perhaps their greatest sin was not their conversion but their cutting themselves off from their heritage but most importantly their family.<br />     The Dubners could be seen as a classical case of converts who become fanatics in their new faith. They will deny everything in order to belong. Most disturbing is Veronica's inablity to come to terms with the anti-semintism found in her new faith. This story is a serious one but not full of to much doom and gloom. Stephen's parents were deeply in love with one another and their children. The couple were staunch in their support of social justice and their faith. However their duplicity of denial is painful.<br />     I enjoyed this book because you see ason trying to understand the dynamics of his parents faith (Jewish and Catholic) that impacted upon his life. On discovering his Jewish family, Stephen was not only reclaiming his father (who died when Stephen was a young boy) but also the meaning of faith. Like his father and mother he had to go on his own spiritual walk that led him back to Judism which makes him all the richer in the fullness of the faith.<br />     Turbulent Souls is an excellent memoir in dealing with the questions of family estrangements, the conversion process, support systems and the need for one's faith to address the deeper issues in your life as you go through the dark journey of the soul. Unfortunately the faith of Sol and Florance didn't answer their personal needs but the beauty of their son coming full circle was worth their struggle.	2002-02-22
US	50703543	RV4C11PWC5RNG	0525945016	119680425	Soft Money: A Filomena Buscarsela Mystery (Filomena Buscarsela Mysteries)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	TREACHEROUS WATERS	Former detective Filomena Buscarsela is back in action but this time there is more at stake. As a single parent and underemployed worker for an environmental agency, Filomena is called on by a neighbor to investigate the murder of a friend. Anyone else would refuse and let the police handle it. After all Filomena is now a parent and has to get her act together. Alas, the investigative part of her personality runs to deep in her blood. She takes on the case (expecting no compensation) and embarks in some treacherous waters that will endanger herself, her daughter and a rookie of the NYPD.<br />     K.J.A. Wishnia does a superb job in taking us along with Buscarsela in her quest to solve a murder that ends up being far more complex than it seems. We venture into the Dominican community where the realm of magic and reality have indistinct borders. We see the ugly side of Filomena's job at a non-profit organization that treats its employees like dirt while sucking in thousands of dollars that disappears as quickly as it comes. Finally, we're shown the angst of a mother who is torn between the responsibility of her child and that of what she loves to do best. The elements are all here for a great story.<br />     I enjoyed Ecuadorian born Filomena as she deal with various challenges in her life. She is witty, sarcastic but carries within her an open heart. Bravo for Filomena. The only thing that I found problematic with this novel is that two stories were being told without full attention given to either. It starts our as a murder mystery but as it progresses it turns into a tale of environmental treachery. Wishnia doesn't do a good job in relating the two stories together. Enjoy this book, the second of Wishnia's Filomena Buscarsela Mystery series.	2002-02-12
US	50703543	R3A5Y9FJE4J284	0292770936	352193765	Conversations with Isabel Allende (Texas Pan American Series)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	FASCINATING	If you are captivated by Allende's novels and moved by her memoir then you will be equally enthralled with this work. Conversations with Isabel Allende is a collection of thirty-four interviews covering the life, work and assessment of Allende as a writer. The interviews are divided into three periods. The first begins in the mid-80's and is predominated by literary interviews given by academics and scholars of Latin American Literature. The second period (late 80's to 1991) consists of interviews that are biographical and focus on the relationship of her works with her life. The third set of interviews (1991-1994) deal with her relationship with her daughter, the impact of the Latin American Boom Writers on her work and how her move to the United States has impacted on her writing.<br />     I was fascinated with this vast array of material which contains something for everyone. Allende deals with the probing questions of critics and academics regarding her style, structure and influences on her work. Her answers are most surprising in that she doesn't see herself as falling into any particular writing tradition. In fact she confesses her ignorance about those in the literary field who analyze and take apart her works for greater understanding.<br />     Another part of the interviews that are intriguing is her sharing with us her life story, anecdotes, and challenges. You see an intimate portrait of her as a mother, journalist, feminist and novelist. Allendes warts as well as her beauty shines through. Her responses to the questions are a story unto themselves and you wonder if they are indeed true.<br />     What is most important about this work is that you see the progression of growth of one of Latin America's most significant female writers. Allende's works are put in a particular context and you as a reader are able to engage her in viewing how she writes, why she writes and the significance it has for women and Latin America. Conversations is a &quot;must have&quot; text in doing any literary or biographical research on this great writer.	2002-02-08
US	50703543	R2PQLW8G0MU68K	067942931X	242300255	Erskine Caldwell: The Journey from Tobacco Road	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A REVEALING PORTRAIT	In the thirties critics acclaimed Erskine Caldwell as one of the most influential writers of his time. His books sold in the millions and his play, Tobacco Road (based on the novel), had an unprecedented record run across the nation. By the time the sixties emerged, Caldwell falls into obscurity, disdained by the critics and forgotten in the canon of southern literature.<br />      Caldwell's Icarus-like rise to fame and descent into obscurity is the catalyst which inspired Dan Miller to explore one of the south's most prolific writers. What was behind the man who was so passionate in his work yet ended up destroying his professional career, his marriages and his relationships with his children.<br />     The Journey from Tobacco Road takes a microscopic look at the forces which shaped and made Caldwell the writer that he is. Born of educated parents who were members of a fundamentalist presbyterian sect, we find a man full of contradictions. His parents had formal education. Their son never graduated from high school (or any school for that matter) and was a poor writer and reader. Their denomination, The Associated Reformed Presbyterian Church, was highly fundamental yet Caldwell's father had a great passion to confront the injustice of poor and Black people. His passion was transferred over to his son who became the extentsion of his cause for justice.<br />     You will come across layers of complexities of Erskine who was controlling in all of his relationships with his wives and daughters. His obsessive need for control extended itself into the lives of his children to the point of abuse. Yet despite these tendancies Caldwell reached the hearts and minds of his readers in his depiction of the southern poor.<br />    Miller has given the reader a revealing portrait of a man who was at the top of his literary popularity only to fall in obscurity. We are shown the elements of why this happened and can see that the same trap is set for writers who become popular but are spurned by the academic literary community. Caldwell's journey is an interesting one as he goes through the school of hard knocks only to rise a winner. Miller's biography is clear and concise. He doesn't put Caldwell on a pedestle but he reminds us this is an author who shouldn't be ignored. You will enjoy this biography.<br />    Miller's concern about Caldwell's obscurity is not to be ignored. Recently I sat on a class in southern literature. When I read the syllabus, I saw the conspicuous absence of Caldwell's name. On approaching the teacher, I asked why and she immediately became embarassed and said she that Caldwell's name had mistakenly been dropped while editing the syllabus. Miller's book is certainly one we need to remind us of the life and contributions of this man of southern literature.	2002-01-27
US	50703543	R1UVVVF6E6HLEL	0553280589	939620353	Eva Luna	Books	5	31	33	N	N	CAPTIVATING	Conceived on her father's deathbed and almost strangled to death by her umbilical cord, the baby who emerged would become the woman, Eva Luna. Her birth is incredible and her life is even more so as Eva spins for us her story and the story of those who impacted her life.<br />     Isabel Allende captivates the reader by having us take a glimpse of the life and times of Eva Luna, a child whose life is so surreal and incredible to the point where fact and fantasy become one and the same. Eva's voice sweeps us into the dark world of perverts, undesirables and revolutionaries. Through Eva's stories you get a closer look at a society rotten at its core while masquerading as a democracy.<br />     Come with Eva, as a little girl where she plays with a stuffed puma owned by a mad-man who uses Indians for his embalming experiments. Watch as this orphaned girl is \\"sold\\" off by her strange godmother who believes in the gods of her ancesteral Africa  and the saints of Catholicism. Watch Eva as she grows from childhood to adolescense to an adult who has to confront the reality of love and revolution.<br />     EVA LUNA is a lyric tale whose language draws you immediately into the life of the character and her supporting cast. You feel a deep empathy for this woman and you see through her eyes the contradictions that life has to offer. Allende has given us an exceptional work that explores both the spiritual, political and sensual side of a woman caught up in the stream of chaos in her South American country. Come, let Eva tell you a story, her story and you will find yourself unable to tear yourself away from her amazing tale.	2002-01-24
US	50703543	RNLGXGPJ6V8YQ	0451204948	838594392	A Day Late and a Dollar Short	Books	3	7	8	N	N	FALLS SHORT	Viola Price sees the threads of her tight knit family slowly but surely unravelling. As a concerned mother over her adult children even though her marriage has gone sour, she attempts to hold the fragile threads together. Will these threads hold under all of the hurts, jealousies, pain and down right stubborness of this family? Only the characters would know and each tells their own side of the story.<br />     Terry McMillan's masterful style of easedropping takes the reader into the minds, hearts and ambitions of these six family members. We find out their weaknesses and frailties as some of them attempt to makes excuses about why the other is a jerk. The dialogue is exceptional, the story line and elements are great but McMillan falls short in her presentation of the characters.<br />     A Day Late and A Dollar Short is told through the indvidual perspectives of the family members. The problem with them is that they become so transparent and predictable to the point of being a bore. Paris, the oldest, is painted with the typical first born frustrations of being perfect. Lewis, the only son, is the typical can't get-myself-together man who refuses to take responsibility. The middle sibling, a female, goes through her middle-child syndrome problems while the youngest is a space cadet. Yes, they do have problems, serious ones but after dealing with superficial characters you end up saying so what?<br />     McMillan's book is certainly entertaining, engages some serious issues and will raise a few chuckles but its characters lack depth. I highly recommend this book for entertaining reading but don't expect an indepth story of a family struggling to become whole.	2002-01-21
US	50703543	R8QY4EVC0OHWW	1569248443	495497192	How to Write Science Fiction	Books	4	9	9	N	N	AN INTRODUCTORY PRIMER	Pragmatic, informative, and to the point are the best adjectives to use in describing the contents of this how-to-book of writing science fiction. Matthew Costello doesn't go into literary theory about the genre nor does he lead the reader on an endless quest of defining science fiction. What you get is solid guidance on how to write, sell, and market a science fiction story that is believable.<br />    Step by step the reader is shown the basic building blocks of creating a good story. After providing you with those essential elements, the author tells you the basic components of developing the science, worlds and characters in the piece. He also examines the classic works of science fiction's masters (Asimov, Silverberg, Card) to  acquaint the reader with the various styles contained within the genre.<br />     After you have followed the steps then the next mountain to climb is that of marketing your work. Costello is very clear in letting you know that writing is a business. If you are to succeed in the business you need to know your market, know how to write a proposal and studying your field.<br />     I enjoyed reading this book about a genre that appears to be more intimidating than others when it comes to writing. Costello breaks the myth that you must be a science major or science nerd in order to be able to write a clear and concise work that is believable.<br />     I highly recommend this book for anyone who wants to explore the possibility of writing science fiction. It provides the catalyst to make you want to experiment in writing in the field. The book is not a detailed work which covers every aspect of writing in the genre. Use it as an introductory primer and you will get satisfaction out of beginning your first story of science fiction.	2002-01-21
US	50703543	R42L8SONNG6FC	0767000048	131542156	Biography - Nostradamus: Prophet of Doom [VHS]	Books	3	12	13	N	N	THE SEER OF CATASTROPHE	Join in with scholars and writers who discuss a man's visions that unfolded in the future. Nostradamus is a name well known for his fatal prophecies but little is known about him. Biography takes us through a journey of this man's life and the impact that his words had on future generations.<br />     You will be surprised to find that Michael Notre Dame was the descendent of forced Jewish converts. He grew up learning about astrology, magic and the sources of Kabballah. All of these teachings lead him to become a reknowned medieval physician. The question then arises, what happened to him that he was able to foretell future catastrophes? Biography does an adequate job in its attempt in answering this question.<br />     Throughout the film you are shown the prophecies that he had foretold four centuries prior to their happening. Nostradamus was also under a cloud of suspicion but through his patronage with royalty, he was able to escape the cross examinations of the inquisitors.<br />      This film is informative about a person whose name is well known but whose life and work are a mystery. Should we believe that his prophecies came true or are they a result of our imagination? All of the scholars interviewed says Nostradamus was highly accurate. It would have been good to have another point of view regarding his life and work for us to make a sound judgement. Overall this is a fairly good video to entice you to learn more about this man.	2002-01-15
US	50703543	R2KA0V9E2AF6U3	080504776X	300902371	Richard Wright: The Life and Times	Books	5	4	5	N	N	THE OUTSIDER	Many biographies have been written about Richard Wright but this remarkable book gives you a fresh perspective on this man who turned the publishing world upside down with his book Native Son. Unlike the other books written about him, The Life and Times focuses on the personal life of Wright and how over the years he developed as a writer.<br />     Rowley takes us to his home state of Mississippi where we meet Richard Wright as a boy. Raised in a fundamentalist religious family in the midst of poverty, Wright was a true outsider who was not understood by his family or friends. His migration to the north (Chicago) unfolds a new world for him where his writing abilities are recognized and nurtured.<br />     You see a Richard Wright who embraces individualism and won't allow the Communist Party or any other organization to  dictate to him how to write. As time goes on Wright takes the step of permanently leaving the United States by going to France. It is there that he finds a freedom never felt before in America.<br />     I enjoyed this book and was surprised about many facts concerning his personal life and writing career. Wright's psychological development and philosophical stances are intriguing. At times  he is an outspoken voice against racism but ends up making compromises in his work and personal life. Towards the end of his life, Wright  becomes suspicious of those around him. He alienates himself from his family and friends.<br />     Rowley shows us the complexities and humanity of a man who went from poverty to fame and then on a downward spiral into spiritual poverty. What was it that made this man tick? The author does an outstanding job in answering that question and putting him in perspective of his day and time. This is an outstanding book that deserves to be in the libraries of every reader.	2002-01-11
US	50703543	R2YES9LZ9IIJ5J	0312267851	233151709	Terry McMillan: The Unauthorized Biography	Books	2	2	3	N	N	A POOR BIOGRAPHY	Terry McMillan's name is immediately recognized in popular literature. Many fans and readers are curious about the life of this woman who created a new genre (urban romance) and opened the eyes of publishing companies that Black people do read books.<BR>Unfortunately this  &quot;Unauthorized Biography&quot; of the author falls very short in telling us about Ms McMillan's life and what developed her as an author.<br />     What you get is a compilation of stories regarding Terry McMillan but nothing substantial about her life and art. In fact the vast majority of the book talks about the publishing industry, other Black authors, the latest gossip and other trite subjects that have nothing to do what so ever in dealing with the life of Terry McMillan. What is shared is information that has already been known. This biography doesn't tell us anything new. If only it would talk about Terry then it would hold your attention.<br />     Most of Patrick's biographical information is from the books (Mamma, How Stella Got Her Grove Back,etc.) that she finds are autobiographical in nature to McMillan's life. Novels are not facts and Ms Patrick should have taken the time to do some full scale research. Her excuses about McMillan being uncooperative doesn't hold water if you are truly dedicated and serious about doing justice to a major author.<br />     If you are looking for a definitive biography of McMillan leave this book on the shelf. If you want to be slightly entertained and not interested in the facts and development of this great writer by all means this is the book for you.	2002-01-11
US	50703543	RYMIIO87Y8PEA	0931948630	21352107	The Black and White Stories of Erskine Caldwell	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A MIND OPENING COLLECTION	Erskine Caldwell's sharp prose has captured the brutal culture of the south during the stark days of the depression. Readers were brutally shocked as they confronted the spiritual and psychological poverty of Caldwell's characters. In this collection of short stories Caldwell tackles the the complex relationships of Blacks and Whites in segregated America.<br />     This collection was selected by Ray McIver, a Black man, who as a student became captivated by Caldwell's stories. Caldwell's honesty as a white southerner in dealing with racial relationships lead to both men becoming friends and working together to present these stories from varied magazines in which Caldwell was published.<br />     The Black and White Stories of Erskine Caldwell shows the brutality of white men against Blacks in the rural south. The book is divided into four sections dealing with the themes of lynching, sexual exploitation, sadism and flim flamming. Caldwell's characters will shock you with their hate, cowardice and ignorance. You will come across characters who have to walk a thin line in the racial divide in order to survive. You are hit home with the raw emotions of Blacks and Whites who are locked in a never ending battle of wills.<br />     This book is not a social commentary. It presents the stories in a straight forward manner that doesn't call for any apologies. Some of the stories will make you laugh and others will make you cry. Some will make you feel sick to your stomach and still others will fill you with riotous laughter. Caldwell hits his readers will a wide pallet of emotions as you attempt to make sense out of a chaotic world now gone.	2002-01-02
US	50703543	R3JDUOJ7PGLH5T	1852304030	475099509	The Art of Chi Kung: Making the Most of Your Vital Energy (Health Workbook)	Books	4	55	56	N	N	HARNESSING YOUR VITAL ENERGY	More people than ever are taking the responsibility for their health through exploring alternative health care systems. Chi Kung, the Chinese art of developing your energy is one of these systems. This excellent volume gives you an introduction to Chi Kung and the impact it can have on your life.<br />     Wong Kiew Kit presents a reader friendly workbook on the complex art of Chi Kung. He presents to the reader the philosophy behind the art, the explanation of the art's various terms and introduces the various exercises to help you raise your energy level.<br />     I was very impressed by the simplicity of the book, the clarity of the exercise diagrams and the dynamics of Chi Kung. I began to practice just a few of the exercises and immediately felt the results. Since then this book has never been out of my reach. I had not been acquainted with the art and on a whim purchased this book to satisfy my curiousity. I highly recommend the book and its exercises for those who are beginning to explore Chi Kung. It is a good introductory volume that will give you invaluable lessons on harnessing your vital energy.	2002-01-02
US	50703543	R2F1QEJZNEFBSF	0465043615	450733584	Borges: A Life	Books	4	8	8	N	N	AN ENIGMATIC WRITER	Jorge Luis Borges stands out as the most compelling and influential Latin American writer of his time. Yet his fame came slowly. He was given international acclaim while ignored in his homeland of Argentina. Who is this man Borges, whose life is an enigma to those who have encountered him in print?<br />     The answer to that question is found in this superb literary biograpy of Borges by James Woodall. Borges:A Life, explores the Borges the man and the forces which made him into one of the greatest writers in the twentieth century. Drawing on interviews, Borges' works, and detailed readings of letters and other resources the author unravels the life of the man. In doing so you are given invaluable insight about &quot;Georgie&quot; (as he is called by the author) yet there is still an element of mystery that surrounds him.<br />     Although born in Argentina, Borges was a dedicated Anglophile throughout his life. Literature came alive for him through the English language. His early youth was spent in Europe but it wasn't until he returned home that he was able to embark on his own writing career.<br />      The writer Borges loves to startle the reader and sends you through a maze of complexity that challenges  reality. His symbolic use of mirror images and his double puts a twist on literature that has never been done before. Woodall paints a picture of an eccentric man with this powerful gift of telling a story. Although primarily known as a fiction writer, Borges was highly astute in writing poetry and essays.<br />       This is an enjoyable biography of a shy man who becomes accessible to the reader. There are some things in Borges life that arouse questions concerning his integrity. Borges appears to ignore those questions of military dictatorship (in Argentina) and some of his racist comments regarding Indians and Blacks. He moves beyond those distractions and manages to find himself a literary icon. By all means, read this great book about a great man.	2002-01-01
US	50703543	R1JUTVUFOJ0G5D	068816840X	411872626	The Sweet Hell Inside: A Family History	Books	4	4	4	N	N	THE BLACK SIDE OF THE FAMILY	Edward Ball intrigued us with the story of his family and their slave owning heritage. Now he presents us with the story of the Black side of his family. In this account our attention is focused on the children of William Harleston (Ball's ancestoral uncle and slave owner) and his slave paramour Kate Wilson. The progeny of the above liason resulted in the beginnings of a Black middle-class dynasty in the early twentieth century.<br />     Edwin Harleston, the son of William and Kate, managed to run a lucrative funeral business, nurture an artist son and maintained his own mistress like his father. As the patriarch of the family, Harleston's progeny impacted on the life and culture of Black America. Ball has you witness the triumphs, hardships and struggles of a family rejected by their white brethren only to surpass them against the odds.<br />    Ball gives us an excellent look at the rise of the social and racial stratefication of the Black middle-class in their own communities. We get an inside view of the Black elite of light skinned Blacks who carve out their own society. You witness their foibles, eccentric natures and dedication to the race through the study of one family.<br />     If the book has its faults the main one would be Ball's getting bogged down in the historical context of the story to the point where we lose sight of the characters. Edwina Harleston Whitlock, who is the main informant, shares her story with her cousin Ball but somehow her voice gets muted. Despite that problem Ball gives a good account of the family.<br />     White readers will be intrigued by the complexities of Black social life in early twentieth century america. Black readers will find the story interesting but not remarkable for there are &quot;Harlestons&quot; in every Black community. Try the book and open your eyes to a great story.	2001-12-31
US	50703543	RCOAOTK5IPQTD	0872264769	764610355	Cezanne from A to Z	Books	4	2	2	N	N	CEZANNE FOR CHILDREN	One of the most difficult challenges is finding biographies of the great art masters for children. Marie Selliers solves this problem for parents in this compact volume highlighting the major aspects of Cezanne's life and art from A to Z.<br />    Translated from the french, this small book is an ideal introduction about the artist's life for children seven to ten years old. Each chapter is approximately two pages long, illustrated with Cezanne's art work and the story of his life. The titles of the chapters are in french with the appropriate translations.<br />     Your child will enjoy this book of pictures and even adults will find themselves intrigued by his work. The french is ideal in introducing your child to a foreign language through art. Your child will also learn about the one of the great masters in western art. I highly recommend this as a gift book that your child will cherish for years.	2001-12-31
US	50703543	RTRBNLAA9QAP	0820317845	544427058	In Search of Bisco (Brown Thrasher Books)	Books	4	22	22	N	N	IN QUEST OF A FRIEND	Erskine Caldwell takes us on a journey in search of a childhood friend whom he never forgot. Erskine and Bisco were good friends as children but were torn apart due to the segregationist mores of their times. Bisco was a so-called Negro and Erskine a so-called White. The two were destined to inhabit a land and culture which promoted inequality and friendship for both young people.<br />  In Search of Bisco is a chronicle of Caldwell's search not only for his friend (now that he is an adult) but also an examination of the root sources of hatred and racism that separated the two. He takes us to South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, Arkansas and Louisiana and their varied communities and asks about his friend. He gets a wealth of information about attitudes both black and white concerning Bisco.<br />  Caldwell's south as he knew it doesn't exist today but the attitudes that it nurtured still persist. Bisco is more than a mistreated Black man but for Caldwell has become a metaphor for the oppression of Blacks throughout the south. In every state, whites share their contempt for the Biscos of this world. When encountering Blacks Caldwell finds rebellious Biscos, conservative Biscos and proud Biscos who refuse to bow to the conventions of their day. The reader is given a superb portrait of the struggle of African-Americans in the south prior to the civil rights movement and the attitudes of their white counterparts.<br />  Bisco is a commentary on race but most of all it is a look at a friendship that could have blossomed but was stunted early in these men's lives. Bisco and Erskine show us the possibilities of what could have been in the south in terms of enduring friendships. Erskine presents us with the harsh realities. This is an excellent book worth your reading and reflection over a time and a friendship that is no more.	2001-11-10
US	50703543	R1JFI2O6Z0X5XV	0765198959	736403644	Goya (The Life and Works Art Series)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	GREAT OVERVIEW OF A GREAT ARTIST	Goya is one of the great artists of all time whose work anticipated the styles of the 19th and 20th century painters. In this slim volume, the reader is introduced to some of his most outstanding works.<br />     Much of what is presented are the familiar works by which Goya is known beginning with his cartoon The Parasol (1777) and ending with The Milkmaid of Bordeaux (1827). As you review each painting, the intensity and power of Goya's work touches you. The author gives a brief summary of the work and comments on Goya's style, the context in which the picture was painted and the changes in his technique and subject matter throughout his life.<br />     The Life and Works of Goya is an excellent introductory text for those unfamiliar with this great artists. Its focus is on the paintings and it keeps any extraneous information to the minimum. You, as the reader and viewer get the opportunity to enjoy, meditate and form your own opinion about what you see from Goya's work. In reading and viewing this book I found myself wanting to know more about the breadth and depth of Goya's work. It has served as a catalyst for me and no doubt for you to explore the meaning of his art in today's times and its impact on future artists. This book is well worth having in your collection.	2001-10-26
US	50703543	R3MH5FN2VP6KNY	0743210735	871910256	Lillian Hellman	Books	4	11	13	N	N	AN INTIMATE PORTRAIT	Lillian Hellman was one of the greatest playwrights of the 20th Century. American theatre goers can never forget her classic works,The Children's Hour and The Little Foxes. Her talents didn't stop at playwriting for this great woman went on to write screenplays, news articles and produced a highly acclaimed best selling autobiography. Such a prolific writer and talent has much to share with her readers about her life.<br />Lillian Hellman:The Image, The Woman is a well researched in depth portrait of the woman that we don't know. Moving beyond the gossip and criticism about Hellman's life, the author gives us a view of her childhood, career and declining days. We get the opportunity to see what made this woman into the great playwright that she was in light of her radical politics, passion and provincial attitudes that were a part of her personality.<br />Reading about her life makes you wonder how did she ever become writer? Although she has intriguing relationships it is interesting to find her being able to achieve beyond the fortunes of those who mentored her. Her outspoken voice during the McCarthy era makes you wonder how this lady survived. Going through her life you find a woman very much in control of her career, highly protective of those she loves and is not beyond making embellishments about the truth.<br />I thoroughly enjoyed this intimate portrait of this woman with all of her positive and negative qualities. Her biographer is not judgemental about her life but calls into question those areas in which she was evasive. He doesn't swamp you in cheap gossip or petty quarrels about the merits of her work. Hellman is pictured as an imperfect woman but one who has enriched us with her remarkable life and works. You will come away wanting to know more about her plays and feeling a deep appreciation for the development of this playwright.	2001-09-05
US	50703543	R2XQHEX7TIYSBC	0892966904	561029068	Point Deception	Books	4	4	4	N	N	REGRETS &amp; RENEWAL	All of them passed her along the road intending to help but other matters drew their attention. Days later, the body of the young woman is found. Those who passed her by share their regrets. Deputy Rhoda Swift was one of them who passed by the stranded motorist. Now as she deals with thid new death, she must face the ghosts of an unsolved mass murder of thirteen years ago. There too, she has her regrets.<br />     Welcome onto the scene this new character of Marcia Muller's canon of mystery. Point Deception puts us into a closed knit community where everyone is responsible for everyone but when a mass murder occurs the place closes tight like a clam shell. This new murder only serves as a catalyst to cause the world to refocus itself on a town gone paranoid.<br />     Swift finds herself attempting to confront those demons while working on the case. A hot shot author from New York comes to town asking questions that people resent. Swift's mentor starts to get overly violent and the town works in a conspiracy to keep things quiet.<br />     Rhoda is methodical, sensitive and cares about her work but you find a side of her that stays in denial. Guy Newberry, the writer, has his own demons to exorcise but feels the deep pain of Rhoda. The two of them team up to solve not only this present murder but to resolve the massacre of years past.<br />     The characters are captivating and the mystery itself is intriguing as you attempt to understand what makes this community tick. Swift is a great character in this new series that will put Sharon McCone to shame. Enjoy Point Deception.	2001-09-02
US	50703543	R2L3LANDS0VEZJ	0934418551	596653552	Frida Kahlo, Diego Rivera, and Twentieth Century Mexican Art: The Jacques and Natasha Gelman Collection	Books	5	4	4	N	N	MEXICO'S BEST ARTISTS	Where can you find a collection of the best of Mexico's artists of the 20th century? Contained in these pages spanning four generations in the 20th century are some of the greatest names in Mexican art. The Jacques and Natasha Gelman Collection presents for the first time a wide span view of the development of Mexico's greatest treasures in art.<br />     Here you will find Frida Kahlo, Diego Rivera, Jose Orozco and the other older greats of the muralist and painting traditions of Mexico. The art of these &quot;Masters&quot; are rich in their expressions of presenting the indigenous art of the people before the public. You will also find these &quot;Masters&quot; experimenting with impressionism, cubism and surrealism but in the end they develop a style unique to their cultural heritage.<br />     Just viewing the &quot;Masters&quot; alone would be enough but Mexico's artists are progressive in their style as we view the work of the younger artists who have made their mark on the artistic scene. Francisco Toledo, Cisco Jimenez and Marco Arce explode upon the scene with their framented narrative texts, irreverance for religion and interpretations of the myths and legends of their land. Their works are just as stunning, provocative and controversial as their elders.<br />     Such a diverse collection shows the viewer the varied styles and development of Mexican art through the 20th Century. Nothing can match it. Art lovers everywhere will appreciate the styles represented in this collection and will gain a deeper appreciation of Mexico's artistic tradition.	2001-08-23
US	50703543	R27YR8GIYZ7JII	0345422783	460710962	How Reading Changed My Life	Books	3	13	17	N	N	A READER'S PAEAN	Author, Anna Quindlen shares with her audience her deep love for reading and its impact upon her life. She takes us on a nostalgic walk through her memories as a reader. You will see yourself as a reader through her eyes. Remember when parents and friends thought you strange when you preferred reading over going outside to play? All of us have been there with Quindlen as we were taken to different worlds and experienced different thoughts through the written word.<br />     Quindlen further expands her commentary about reading that deals with a number of issues. She looks at the impact of the computer on the future of books, comments on Americans belief that reading is good only if it is functional, shares with us the never ending issue of book banning and the academic controversy surrounding the literary canon.<br />     Reading holds a very important place in Quindlen's life but the greatest weakness of this work is that she doesn't tell us how reading itself changed her life. Certainly books opened a new world for her but how did this unveiling move her as a writer and a person?  You never find out. She provides for us lists of her favorate ten books for various occasions.  Reading lists are very personal but I find it strange that her canon is predominently white and male especially when she speaks out against literary lists that are monocultural.  Apparently she doesn't practice what she preaches.<br />     Overall her insights give you an appreciation of the written word and the delight books can give to its readers. People should not only take reading seriously but also enjoy the best and worst of what books have to offer. Quindlen does an excellent job in inspiring you to keep an open mind and to keep on reading.	2001-08-23
US	50703543	R1PP8I9M5QXCAY	0820321052	320370412	Trouble in July: A Novel (Brown Thrasher Books)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	AMERICAN TERRORISM	Sheriff McCurtain has a problem. It appears that a negro boy has been accused of raping a white gal. White folk in Flowery Branch can't allow that to happen and so a lynch mob forms. In times of crisis such as this the sheriff does what is politically correct; he goes fishing. This time McCurtain finds himself the fish on the hook who just can't get away no matter how hard he tries.<br />     In this masterful piece of literature, Erskine Caldwell unravels before our eyes the pathology and terrorism of lynching in the south. No one could do a better job for Caldwell is a white southerner who grew up in an environment in which lynching was a common form of entertainment. Trouble in July goes deep into the psychology of what makes common white men into brutes and those who work for them into victims.<br />     Like many men McCurtain finds it easier to ignore what is going on rather than try to contain the trouble. The more that he tries to wash his hands of the affair the worse it gets. Those in power see the political and economical ramifications of the act and call on him to jail the accused. After all,McCurtain is their political puppet to be manipulated at will.<br />     Such an intriguing drama exposes the hypocrasy of the law and shows how fear can make even the most honest of men betray their basic values of justice. Fear reduces the \\"negro\\" community into one that becomes terrorized and beaten into submission. Fear allows the upholder of the law to allow things to get out of hand merely because he wants to be voted into office next year.<br />      Although the characters are simple; their motives, thoughts and values are complex as they struggle with their consciences in carrying out their heinous acts of cowardliness. You have laid out before you the ugliness of a system that dehumanizes everyone involved.      The foreward by Bryant Simon in this edition gives us the background which gave rise to this novel. According to Simon, the author has made a significant transition in his work by revealing the south's racism in a straightforward manner. He doesn't hold back the punches. <br />     Caldwell has given us a masterpiece about American Terrorism at its zenith in the United States. You will be repulsed, angered, and yes, fearful as you follow the crowd. Our author won't let us become mere voyeurs. We become the lynch mob, the negroes, the soiled politicians and all that is sick in southern terrorism. Read this outstanding work, feel the terror and learn about overcoming the mob psychology in your life. I was deeply moved by Trouble In July and you will too.	2001-08-20
US	50703543	R1SS4LK3LZ8D7A	0060217839	170949017	Diego Rivera: Artist of the People	Books	5	0	0	N	N	&quot;THE MEXICAN COWBOY OF MURALS&quot;	Slouched hat over his eyes, a pistol in his belt and a paint brush in his hand is the signature description of Diego Rivera, one of the world's greatest muralists. Young people will be enthralled over this fictionalized biography of an artist whose works were dedicated to the poor.<br /> Born in 1886 in Mexico, frog-faced Diego was a child prodigy in the art world. His talents in drawing were far ahead of those in his age group. Diego was a rebellious one and defied the rules of priests, teachers, his family and school. &quot;Diego was just being Deigo&quot; was his father's refrain when given negative reports about his brilliant son.<br /> The author covers the whole of Rivera's artistic career and shows us the best of his signature paintings and murals. Children can get the feel of the mischief of Diego, his commitment to the poor and his undying love for his painting. Diego's work as a muralist revived an art long dead and carried it to even greater heights. His work impacted many artists in the United States and all over the world who came to be taught under the feet of this great man.<br /> Diego Rivera:Artist of the People is an excellent book for introducing children (ages 8-12) to Diego Rivera's muralist art, Mexican history and the development of Mexican art. A bibliography is provided for further reading about this great man and his work. Some of the photographs of Diego's works are in black and white. Those pictures take away the great splash and use of color that Rivera is known for in his works. Other than that minor flaw this book is a wonderful view of Mexico's greatest artist.	2001-08-14
US	50703543	RQ6M6B7JPTLDA	068814859X	850464717	The Abracadabra Kid: A Writer's Life	Books	4	4	4	N	N	THE MAGIC OF BECOMING A WRITER	Do you want to become a writer? Here's how. First become a magician, then travel the high seas, drop into a reporter's job and  start having a family. Once done write a few screen plays and use your kids to critique your work. Does the above sound unbelievable? Yes indeed, except that it is true. Sid Fleischman did live such a life and now is sharing it with his fans.<br />     You will enjoy this entertaining autobiography of one of america's famous children's authors. Sid's life is a fantasy of adventure and excitement as you see how he becomes an author. It was not intentional and took a long time but it was worth it in the end.<br />     Enjoy his life story filled with unexpected escapades and happenings over his illustrious career. He share with us his family and their crazyness and keeps us entertained. You will enjoy his life and his telling of how his characters were born.	2001-08-13
US	50703543	R3LJ7OMSZEDSCR	0820316636	71251909	God's Little Acre: A Novel (Brown Thrasher Books Ser.)	Books	3	17	23	N	N	GOD'S BIG MISTAKE	Enter into the world of TyTy, patriarch of the Walden family, who is obsessed in finding gold. His obsession is so great until he digs holes throughout his farm and foregoes the necessity of doing his planting.      TyTy isn't the only one with an obsession. His son-in-law Will is determined to re-open the closed mill in his South Carolina town. Will thinks TyTy is a fool and TyTy believes the same about Will.      Once again, Erskine Caldwell, takes us behind the scenes of southern poverty in the depression through his use of outlandish characters with impossible dreams. TyTy is a man of the land who is unable to sow a crop while Will is a son of the industrial mills. The mill exploits its workers and the soil refuses to yield a crop. Both men and their families become victims in a system neither one can understand. Yet these men refuse to give up their dreams.<br />    Witness the foolishness of TyTy as he captures a white, white man to divine a gold lode. The sensuousness of Ty's daughter, Darling Jill, gets to be rediculous as well as his passion for Griselda, his daughter-in-law. Throughout the book you will be confronted with adultry, rape and ignorance. The female characters are clueless and use their sexuality to get what they want. Except for Rosamond (Ty's daughter) neither of the females exhibit any type of strong character and even Rosamond falls short.<br />     The positiveness of this book is that it shows the sociological and economic impact of the depression on the lives of poor people. You witness their exagerated behavior and begin to shake your head. The weakness of the work is its repetition, pointless scenes and weak plot. After awhile the story gets to become a bore as you're wondering where is it heading. It is a fair read and I would say by all means read this work and move beyond its stereotypes of exagerated southern culture.	2001-08-12
US	50703543	R1VZD0HP3SMAIS	0786221186	686426889	All the Long Years: Western Stories (Five Star First Edition Western Series)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	THE BEST OF WESTERN SHORT STORIES	For over thirty years, Bill Pronzini has entertained us with the best of his detective and mystery novels. For those who are unfamiliar with him as a writer of westerns, you are in for a treat. In these pages you will find fourteen of Pronzini's best western short stories from 1971 to the year 2000.<br />     You won't be disappointed in reading these stories. They hold your attention, are diverse in their plots and keep you guessing as to how they will end. Have you ever wished that someone would pay attention to you? Read &quot;The Hero&quot; where one man did his best to become the center of attraction. In our youth we sometimes commit unpardonable acts and end up paying for it in our old age. An old cowboy learns this lesson in the lead story &quot;All The Long Years.&quot;<br />     These stories are excellent introductions to the western genre. I am not a western genre reader but upon reading Pronzini's work I was immediately enthralled with the genre. The settings, time period and his great story telling captures your imagination. By all means treat yourself to these great stories told by a wonderful writer.	2001-08-12
US	50703543	RJE749U89L546	0934601119	643707377	With All My Might: An Autobiography	Books	3	4	4	N	N	THE WANDERER	From the moment of his birth, Erskine Caldwell was destined to wander all over the world. Born of a school teacher mother and itinerant Presbyterian minister for a father, Erskine never lived in a place for more than two years. Georgia, South Carolina, and Tennessee were just a few of the states in which the family resided. In the first half of his autobiography, Erskine gives us a look at his uncoventional family. His mother insisted upon him being home schooled while his father taught him to become a free thinker in a fundamentalist southern environment.<br />     Through his early experiences we see through Erskine's eyes the poverty, religious excesses, suppressed sexuality and ignorance that he encountered. It is through those experiences that Caldwell grows into manhood and develops a deep curiousity about people and the world. You will be astonished and amazed at the various escapades of life in which Caldwell finds himself.<br />      The first part of his life is interesting but as we get into his life as a writer, the momentum fades. Very little is said about how he developed his style and its impact on the literary world. He doesn't reflect on the controversy surrounding Tobacco Road nor God's Little Acre. In fact he says much of nothing about himself other than his failed marriages, travels and disputes with agents and publishers.<br />      With All My Might is not a detailed reflective tome of a man's life in literature. Rather we receive snippets of his life that are uneven and sometimes you are left wondering how did this man become a prolific writer? You won't find the answer in his work. He wanders everywhere in describing his life. For fans of Erskine Caldwell, this is a book to have in your library. It is a good read but not brilliant.	2001-08-11
US	50703543	R3A9C7USY59OCY	0313305048	834147176	Terry McMillan: A Critical Companion (Critical Companions to Popular Contemporary Writers)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A CRITICAL LOOK	You pay a price when you become a popular writer. What is that price? Simply, it means being ignored by academia as a serious writer of literature regardless of how many awards you have won. Terry McMillan is one of the many writers who has not been taken seriously by the literary establishment because of her popularity.<br />     Terry McMillan:A Critical Companion begins the process of taking a critical look at McMillan's work and shows us that McMillan is not only a popular writer but is the creator of a new genre in romance literature. In the first part of the book we are given biographical information regarding McMillan. From there her life and the context of her literary works are given a detailed overview. Finally, her books MaMa, Disappearing Acts, Wating to Exhale and How Stella Got Her Groove Back are analyzed thoroughly.<br />     How refreshing to see a popular author given such close scrutiny. You find out that her books are not just fly by night romances but encompasses social, political and economic issues dealing with relationships. McMillan's popularity gave rise to urban romance, a genre that was never explored. McMillan also opened the door for Black Romance fiction that was never on the scene in mainstream publishing houses. Her impact as a writer and pioneer of a new genre has been underestimated. This critical companion opens the door for discussion, debate and relection about romance literature, the portrayal of Black male and female relationships and the future of a new genre. It is well worth the reading and having in your own personal library as you explore McMillan's works and their significance.	2001-08-07
US	50703543	R1ZS4IMZCYP3RF	082031661X	300765205	Tobacco Road: A Novel (Brown Thrasher Books Ser.)	Books	5	15	19	N	N	THE UNDERBELLY OF SOUTHERN CULTURE	Written during the depression era, this southern classic uncovers the ugly side of southern culture steeped in poverty. Come along on Tobacco Road and view Jeeter Lester and his dysfunctional family. Jeeter, the patriarch of this poor excuse of humanity brings out the worst qualities that a man can possess. His ignorance, selfishness and stupidity are magnified to the highest degrees as he attempts to survive in a world that has long gone.<br />     Erskine Caldwell has introduced us to a life of absurdity in the backwoods of the south. His characters are stereotypical charactures of poor southern whites. Some of them are grotesque in their appearance, greedy, selfish and totally shiftless. As much as you would want to sympathize with them, you can't. They are people who won't take responsibility for themselves and will put the blame on others. Jeeter and his son Dude are great examples of this mentality.<br />     How then can this book be so good if it describes people so bad? In telling the story of Tobacco Road, we see another side of southern culture exposed. It is not pretty, genteel or noble. You see the ugly for what it is and affirm that this too is a part of life when people are reduced to extreme poverty. There is also humor in the story. The characters are not totally one dimensional but their naivite draws you to tears of laughter and maybe sorrow. Look into this world of southern culture where people cling to dreams long dead and allow themselves to remain stagnate on Tobacco Road. This is an excellent southern classic of a people long forgotten.	2001-08-07
US	50703543	R1CSLNQZMFNZKW	1888889039	617061741	The Publish It Yourself Handbook: Literary Tradition and How-To (Fourth Revised Edition)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	EXPERIENCES IN SELF-PUBLISHING	What makes an author want to self-publish his/her own book rather than following the conventional methods for publication? The answer to that question is found in this splendid book where authors share their experiences in the self-publishing arena. This 25th anniversary edition of the classic never loses the flavor of the original as it explores the motivations of those writers who said the hell with commercial publishers.<br />     Contained in the book is an interesting  history of self-publishing in the United States from Thomas Paine through Ernest  Callenbach (author of Ecotopia). After the introduction, the authors tell their stories about their foray into the arena. Their reasons are diverse as the works that they have written. Some stuck with self-publishing throughout their careers while others entered it briefly only to go back to commercial publishers. See the reasons why they felt the need to self-publish as well as why some of them returned to the commercial arena.<br />     I enjoyed reading about their experiences and would encourage anyone seeking to self-publish to get their source of inspiration from this book. I must caution you that this is NOT a how to book. The title is misleading and the so called updated how-to tips are a joke. I was disappointed in finding out that this wasn't a how-to book but it was an enjoyable read.	2001-07-10
US	50703543	R2VHHPTF03MPGE	0399147195	469684331	P is for Peril : A Kinsey Millhone Mystery	Books	3	1	2	N	N	P IS FOR PROMISING	All of the great elements of a promising mystery are found in this story but they fall flat on their face. The ex-wife of a prominent doctor hires Kinsey to find her missing ex-spouse. Oh, never mind the fact that the man has remarried and has an infant son. Throw in an investigation of fraud at the doctor's job and stir up some marital discord with the doctor's new wife. Don't forget Kinsey's problem with her new office landlord's brother. His hormones are at an all time high and Kinsey is his target. Forget about the fact that he and his brother are suspected of killing their parents.<br />  With all of those things going on what do you have? A mess of a story and plot. You see Kinsey being spun around in different directions to the point where you don't know where the story is going. Graton has given us three stories in one and neither one is complete. The incompleteness and motivations of Kinsey is what throws the reader off and renders the story unsatisfying.<br />  P is for Peril is not one of Grafton's best book in the series but it is not the worst. It starts out with a story full of potential but leaves you still guessing at the end of who did what and why. If you are a Grafton fan add this book to your collection. For anyone else be prepared for being short changed. P for Peril could be better.	2001-06-30
US	50703543	R22AH7BO8JY4LO	158838019X	738135854	Shine Annie	Books	3	0	1	N	N	NAIVE LOVE, DELAYED DREAMS	Annie Ruth is in love. Graduation is around the corner for this young lady and college is in sight. Her mother and father preach to her to keep herself focused and get her education. But what do parents know? After all, Raymond is the boy of her dreams and their love will last until the ages.<br />     Enter into the rural community of Tobacco County, Georgia where the living is hard and the opportunities are non-existent for Blacks living there in the 1960's. You are invited into the lives of the people in this community as they attempt to seek out their loves and fulfill their dreams. Annie tells and shares with us her story and those who surround her in their attempts as young people trying to live their lives.<br />     You will be touched by the innocence and betrayal of young love. Anger will greet you as you endure the injustices inflicted upon Annie and her kinfolk. Sadness will engulf you as you see folk not living up to their potential. Shine Annie will touch your heart in a profound way.<br />     The novel starts out with Annie, the teenager, and journeys through  seven years of her life. You witness her as a  mother, wife and moonshine runner who fails to fulfill the dreams of her parents. Yet through it all her family provides a foundation of support for her and the other characters who go through hard times. This is the first novel of the author who has told a good story. It contains a few misspellings and its pagination which distract you from the story. Overall this is a good novel about naive love and delayed dreams.	2001-06-25
US	50703543	R14RVOB6OT94IO	0679603395	87286252	Joe Gould's Secret (Tie-in Edition) (Modern Library)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	THE STORY OF TWO JOES	Joseph Gould was a member of one of the oldest families in New England. A graduate of Harvard the world was at the feet of this New England scion. Joseph Mitchell was a good old boy from North Carolina. Anxious to work as a reporter he came to New York where he cut his journalistic teeth. His particular subjects of interest were the down and out denizens living on the edge in New York city.<br />     So what has one Joe got to do with the other? Plenty. Joe Gould was the subject of a profile for the New Yorker (1942) as written by Mitchell. Mitchell's encounter with Gould is an intiguing story that carried him through the bizare behavior of a man who had a secret. More than that Gould grows on Mitchell like a fungus that he rewrote another story about Gould twenty-two years later. The reflections, insights and comedy of both profiles and the character that inhabits them will build within you a disgust for Joe Gould or deep pity for a man who threw away his life.<br />     Who was Joe Gould? What was his secret? What part did Mitchell play in his life? All of those questions race through your mind as you read this story. Mitchell encounters a stinking, alcoholic, and dirty bum. Ah but this bum is more than he appears. He is a master in using people and sees himself as a bohemian. Young Joe Mitchell is naive at first in dealing with this older man but as the two get involved we see a relationship being built. Mitchell cares about his subject regardless of the lies and grandiose ideas that Gould shares with him. Mitchell has the gift of seeing through his subject without taking away the subject's dignity.<br />     Gould's profile could easily become a study about mental illness, homelessness, bohemians and skid row during the depression and afterwards. If you look at the story more carefully you find the subject says more about Mitchell than it does about Gould. Mitchell uses Gould as a feature for an article. He serves as Gould's co-dependent in providing him with money for alcohol. He refuses to confront Joe about his secret and after awhile he begins to dislike the man.<br />     The two Joes are an intriguing duo of two men trying to find and define themselves in a harsh world. Joe Gould indulges in fantasy. Mitchell keeps punching away at life and becomes in one sense what Gould could have been. After twenty-two years, Mitchell couldn't extricate himself from the memory of a man who impacted his life. Joe Mitchell has shared with us what it means to be compassionate to a man who was a rascal of the worst kind.	2001-06-22
US	50703543	R1X6L2OK62SO02	1573240249	579125856	Women Who Love Books Too Much: Bibliophiles, Bluestockings & Prolific Pens from the Algonquin Hotel to the YA-YA Sisterhood	Books	3	10	10	N	N	FEMALE BOOK LOVERS	Enter into this fascinating world of women who are desperately in love with books. They are a diverse group of personalities who were at times ignored, banned and reviled by the public for their use of the written word.<br />     Brenda Knight provides us with some intriguing and entertaining profiles of women in the literary scene. They are listed in seven cateogories which include prolific pens, those whose books were banned, women who wrote from a a different spiritual point of view and other interesting facts about women in the field of literature.<br />     Did you know that women were responsible for writing the Bible under the &quot;guidance&quot; of Jerome? Are you aware of the prolific amount of prose penned by Barbara Cartland, Margaret Mead and Edith Wharton? These are just a few tid bits of information that will encourage you to read more.<br />     I enjoyed this book and discovered quite a bit of information about women who love books that I didn't know. This book does suffer from one main fault and that is its mis-statements of facts or getting the facts wrong. For example, she says Maya Angelou received the Nobel Prize for literature which is false. She wrongly identifies Richard Wright as being a part of the Harlem Renaissance movement in her profile of Zora Neale Hurston. Margaret Mitchell did not endowe a medical chair for African-American students going to medical school. Under cover she provided funds for them to attend.<br />     Such mis-statements of facts may make you gun shy of trusting the other &quot;facts&quot; given about women in the book world. Don't be. Do your own exploring and checking and see what you can find. Knight is just a catalyst. I am surprised that women who edit books are missing from this group but that's another book to write.	2001-06-22
US	50703543	R15I7L8S0PIHOP	1573240249	579125856	Women Who Love Books Too Much: Bibliophiles, Bluestockings & Prolific Pens from the Algonquin Hotel to the YA-YA Sisterhood	Books	3	0	0	N	N	FEMALE BOOK LOVERS	Enter into this fascinating world of women who are desperately in love with books. They are a diverse group of personalities who were at times ignored, banned and reviled by the public for their use of the written word.<br />     Brenda Knight provides us with some intriguing and entertaining profiles of women in the literary scene. They are listed in seven cateogories which include prolific pens, those whose books were banned, women who wrote from a a different spiritual point of view and other interesting facts about women in the field of literature.<br />     Did you know that women were responsible for writing the Bible under the &quot;guidance&quot; of Jerome? Are you aware of the prolific amount of prose penned by Barbara Cartland, Margaret Mead and Edith Wharton? These are just a few tid bits of information that will encourage you to read more.<br />     I enjoyed this book and discovered quite a bit of information about women who love books that I didn't know. This book does suffer from one main fault and that is its mis-statements of facts or getting the facts wrong. For example, she says Maya Angelou received the Nobel Prize for literature which is false. She wrongly identifies Richard Wright as being a part of the Harlem Renaissance movement in her profile of Zora Neale Hurston. Margaret Mitchell did not endowe a medical chair for African-American students going to medical school. Under cover she provided funds for them to attend.<br />     Such mis-statements of facts may make you gun shy of trusting the other &quot;facts&quot; given about women in the book world. Don't be. Do your own exploring and checking and see what you can find. Knight is just a catalyst. I am surprised that women who edit books are missing from this group but that's another book to write.	2001-06-22
US	50703543	R12VN84QFFB3FA	0609807706	168634773	The Official Guidebook to America's State Quarters	Books	3	3	5	N	N	A GOOD START	Unless you haven't noticed or you are blind, America's quarters have changed their design. This is the result of America's 50 State Quarter program which will commemorate each state in the union with designs submitted by the individual state. Since the kick off of the program in 1998 people have gone wild in collecting these coins. The beauty of their designs, historical significance and availability has jump started a new generation of coin collectors.<br />     This guide gives us the politics and history of how this program got started and finally became a reality. From there it goes on to the basics of coin collecting for the novice with of course a focus on the quarters. Any information or questions that you have about these quarters are readily answered in this book.<br />     If this is your first time in collecting coins (and you chose the quarters) &quot;America's State Quarters&quot; is a good start. It has all the information that you need to know. For those who have collected for years Ganz's book is adequate in introducing you to this new craze. The guide book has some faults. The pictures are terrible. Don't even try to discern the faults in the coins as described in the pictures. The pictures are poor throughout the text. <br />     You're given a profile of each state quarter. Many of the profiles are incomplete (information not available). It would have been better for the author to provide us with a summary of those states with incomplete information and then update us as the years go by.<br />     This is a good book for the beginning coin collector and for those who are specifically interested in the state quarter program.	2001-06-21
US	50703543	R2FE7PCZW1Q7PH	0865714320	199265859	Be the Difference	Books	4	15	15	N	N	CHANGING THE WORLD	Have you ever wanted to make a difference in your community but didn't have a clue as to what steps were needed to make a change? Did you feel inadequate because of your age and inexperience? Danny Seo addresses those questions and provides you with a guide on how to make a difference. He should know for at the tender age of twelve, he formed an organization of a few neighborhood kids to help improve the environment. His success was phenomenal.<br />     At the tender age of twenty-two, Danny further spurs people on to learning the basic steps in helping you get started in changing the world. Want to form a group to tackle a problem? Great! The books covers how to form a non-profit organization, getting publicity, funding and outreach. This handbook goes further in encouraging young people to get involved with their local governments to make changes, pursuing internships and working with businesses.<br />       I found this to be not only an inspiring book for youth but was impressed with the information provided for someone to begin the process of making changes. Seo's concept of being of service to the community is a breath of fresh air in a culture of consumerist capitalism. &quot;Be the Difference&quot; gives hope to youth, adults and organizations in working together to provide a better quality of life. Anyone working with youth or in education should have this book in their hands. The possibilities it provides for change are endless.	2001-06-20
US	50703543	R1W3KZ5M4LCZZI	0816041431	517288565	Career Opportunities for Writers	Books	4	9	9	N	N	FOR PROSPECTIVE WRITERS	Writing may seem like a glamourous job where you scribble down a few words and bingo, the money starts flowing. Career Opportunities for Writers brings one back to reality and shows what jobs are available out there for those who are devoted to making writing their career.<br />  Written in a straight forward manner this guide book outlines eleven areas in which a writer's skill is needed in the job market. A description of the job, salary, education, prospects for advancement and other pertinent information is shared which gives you a realistic appraisal of what to expect in the job market. The text also provides you with invaluable information regarding web sites for writers, professional writer's associations and other useful information.<br />  This book is not a how to find a writing job. Nor does it give a list of writing positions available in various locales. What makes it a valuable resource is that it provides you with a wide sweeping view of the jobs available in the field. For those looking for a second career or those who are just starting a career in writing this is the book to have in order to see the possibilities.	2001-06-19
US	50703543	R30WRCMA6C2DZR	0786228946	514755939	Oddments: A Short Story Collection (Five Star First Edition Mystery Series)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	STRANGE TWISTS AND TURNS	Private eye writer, Bill Pronzini, takes us on a roller coaster of strange twists and turns in this collection of fourteen short stories. Oddments is truly odd in terms of its strange, yet endearing characters, and the various subjects which are presented. You will be surprised about how far reaching the imagination of our private eye author can go.<br />     &quot;And Then We Went to Venus&quot; sounds more like a science fiction story than a mystery. Our author adds a twist to the story which keeps you on edge as to what happened to those astronauts who visited the planet.             Compulsive gamblers will be delighted by the irony that touches &quot;Shade Work&quot; and driven crazy by figuring out the odds in &quot;Liar's Dice&quot;. Do you hate practical jokers? Find out what happens to one when he goes too far in &quot;The Dispatching of George Ferris&quot;.<br />      The stories are entertaining, some are to easy to figure out but overall Pronzini has given readers a broad spectrum of his short stories. A collection such as this would not be complete without a &quot;Nameless&quot; Detective story. Pronzini obliges us with one where Nameless takes on more than he can handle.<br />     Sit back and enjoy these stories. They are a fast read and touch on areas that causes you to think twice before making your own judgement.	2001-06-19
US	50703543	R1LCJRVL6W1PP2	1577310802	779128092	Developing Intuition: Practical Guidance for Daily Life	Books	3	45	47	N	N	PRACTICAL HANDBOOK ON INTUITION	Shakti Gawain provides readers with this compact handbook on how to develop your intuition and use it in your daily life. For those who are novices in the field of intuition this book provides a decent introduction and covers all questions regarding intuition. It defines the word, tells us why there is such resistance to it and helps us to distinquish intuition from other &quot;competing voices.&quot;<br />      The greatest strength of this book are the exercises. After each chapter, the reader is provided with a number of exercises to open oneself in experiencing his or her intuitive  voice. All of the exercises and journaling suggestions are right on target in enabling you to use your intuition. Those who are well acquainted with intuition literature would find it worth their time to review those various exercises.<br />        Developing Intuition is not an in depth look at the subject nor does it bog you down in various theories. It is a very general book with helpful suggestions. Read it during quiet moments at home or when you're on your job. Its insights will lead you to consider trying another alternative mode for your life. It is an average book in the field of intuition literature.	2001-05-30
US	50703543	R3H7D4HAQFG8WB	0671019201	173746814	Enterprise (Star Trek: My Brother's Keeper, Book 3)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	FINAL GOODBYE	James T. Kirk is on planet earth to do two painful things in his life. First, he must give the eulogy for his friend Gary Mitchell. Second, he must tell Gary's parents that he killed their only son. Such a burden would tear anyone apart.<br />      While on earth, Kirk meets an old friend, Dr. McCoy, and is able to tell him about the facts surrounding Gary's death. Once done, Kirk looks back at another critical time in his career as Captain of the Enterprise where Gary has shaped his career.<br />     In this final volume of the three part series, My Brother's Keeper, we come to the conclusion of a friendship that has grown throughout the years only to be marred by death. Enterprise explores whether Kirk can truly be a Captain of his ship or must he depend upon every word of his friend Gary? His resolve is tested as his ship is taken over by enhanced Klingons determined to destroy the Federation as well as their own empire.<br />     The presence of the Klingons on his ship answers the mystery that long plagued Kirk and Mitchell for fourteen years while cadets on the Republic and later on the Constitution. The two are reunited with their old officers and an &quot;old flame&quot; who are not willing to share &quot;classified&quot; information with the Captain.<br />     Michael Friedman does another good job in providing us with a moving story. You see a man still grabbling with his demons of guilt and also a young Captain learning to regard the opinions of all his crew members during atrying time. Excitement, adventure and intrigue is packed in this last novel of a man who had a great impact on Kirk's life. You will witness growth and maturity in both of them as they become true leaders of Starfleet.	2001-05-28
US	50703543	R1W9B8U6Z2PY53	0863161618	768420875	Arabs & Israel for Beginners (Writers and Readers Series)	Books	4	19	24	N	N	CONCEPTS CHALLENGED	What is the true source of conflict between the Arabs and Israelites? Should we believe that God gave Jews the land and it is their rightful inheritance? Are the Arabs and Jews forever locked into a conflict that originates thousands of years and is to never end? If any of you had these questions on your mind everything that you have been told or read about the conflict will be blown out the water.<br />     Arabs &amp; Israel For Beginners is an opinionated, harsh and no nonsense treatsie in attempting to get at the truth of what is going on in this with these two groups. It spares no one as it debunks the religious myths, political intigues and downright lies told to create the modern state of Israel. The author methodically unravels a web of deceit that is incredulous.<br />      In other words the author has rewritten history. Or is he giving us another side of the story never told before? I believe the latter even though Ron David is extremist in his assertions. Without a doubt he believes there never was a source of conflict with the groups until the major western powers refused to give autonomy to the Arab States and allowed Zionists to take over.<br />      Such a view is highly controversial but it provides an alternative way of viewing the conflict going on in the Middle East with these two groups. Such a voice needs to be considered and examined because only one side of the story has ever been presented and even then it becomes confusing. Ron David has done us justice in raising us out of our illusions about Israel. He is challenging, humorous and ironic. Read this work with care but as with all works of history move beyond the opinion of one author.	2001-05-28
US	50703543	R3895NU58UQ8JW	0671019198	527519484	Constitution (Star Trek: My Brother's Keeper, Book 2)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	THE RIGHT CHOICE	After a grueling debriefing where he is forced to go over the particulars of his friend's death, James Kirk returns to The Enterprise. Prior to leaving he answers a question for a lieutenant ready to  transfer to another ship. For some reason her question sparks numerous memories in his head and Kirk goes back to another time and another place.<br />     Meet the young James Kirk on the Farragut where he finds himself one of the few survivors of the ship. Later he is transfered over to the Constitution where he is greeted with open arms by his friend Gary. But this Kirk is hollow. The zest for life has escaped him. His ambition to become a starfleet captain has died. Gary has a challenge on his hands and even more so as the Constitution is attacked by an alien vessel. Kirk is the senior officer and most make the right choice. Can he?<br />     Constitution, part two of the three part series of My Brother's Keeper, follows Kirk as he once again reflects over the life of his friend Gary. This time he remembers when he had to struggle to make some right choices in command and felt utterly useless until Gary intervened. Did he make the right choice in killing Gary as he attempts to find the answers in his past.      Once again you are bombarded with a thrilling action packed story that keeps your attention yet stays in step with the first book of the series. The only problem with this book is the various distractions of fact and numerous grammatical errors. For example, the first part of the book says he was on the Republic left as one of the only surviving crew then switches over to say it was the Farragut. Although a minor error it takes away from the integrity of the book. Otherwise we have a good story and receive further insight as to what makes a starship captain.	2001-05-27
US	50703543	R2CTOSEX9NQLXF	0671019147	291580769	Republic (Star Trek: My Brother's Keeper, Book 1)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	THE STORY BEHIND THE STORY	James T. Kirk has committed a heinous act. He killed his best friend, Gary Mitchell. Sorrow, guilt and frustration take their toll on Kirk as he begins to reminiscence over a relationship that went sour.<br />     Republic, the first book, in the three part series of My Brother's Keeper, tells the story of how Kirk and Mitchell became friends at Starfleet Academy.  There we meet two different personalities. Kirk is Mr. Play It Safe Lieutenant while Mitchell is a fun loving cad. The two get on one another's nerves. While on the U.S.S. Republic on a training mission, the two begin to learn that they must work together in order to save a planet about to be torn apart in an interplanetary conflict.<br />     Republic is a good story in introducing us to two intriguing characters forging a friendship in their youth. We see just what Kirk was like before becoming a Captain and get a taste of Mitchell's influence on his life. This was an enjoyable read which will take you to the stars as well as teach you about the meaning of friendship.	2001-05-26
US	50703543	R1CJ9GIEEEPJ44	0393315428	954869808	The Dead Piano (Old School Books)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	UPTURNED LIVES	Meet the Blakes, a lovely upper-middle class Black family who take their position in life seriously. Finley is a gynecologist, his white-looking wife, Olga is a housewife and their daughter, Sophie, is a pain in the neck. Oh, let's not forget Teddy, the bear.<br />     Their tranquil neurotic lives become disturbed as Black militants take over their home and demand reparations. For twelve hours this \\"bushwa... \\" family has to come to terms with themselves, the lies they have told and the people they have served.<br />     What an intriguing concept as Henry Van Dyke shatters the security of the Black middle-class and calls into question the motives of the Black militants. His fictional piece is a classic 1960's drama which pits the two groups against one another and you get the opportunity to see if which one can come clean. Are the Blakes living in a world of illusion? Are the militants sincere in their grandstanding or are they just a bunch of theives? <br />         I enjoyed the plot but was annoyed at the author's transitions and at times the boring dialogue. At times the characters were so stereotyped to the point of being unbelievable. The strength of the novel was the psychological and emotional strains that the characters had to endure if they were to survive. This is a decent novel that was a fair read.	2001-05-25
US	50703543	R3NWJHGFROVN42	0844243353	433373404	Careers for Bookworms & Other Literary Types (Vgm Careers for You)	Books	3	14	19	N	N	GOOD OPPORTUNITIES	Do you love to read and wish to turn your love of words into a new career? If so, this slim volume describes a number of jobs for people who love to read. Bookworms share their career experiences for those who love the written word and want to do more with their skill of reading.<br />    The book describes the particular field in which a Bookworm can utilize their skills ( librarian, teacher, copy editor, etc.), tells you of any educational requirements needed, and gives a brief bibliography of additional resources at the chapter's end.<br />     Careers for Bookworms is good in that introduces you to the various careers out there available for advid  readers. Unfortunately it fails to discuss any internet possibilities for bookworms. Although it lists the jobs available, it fails to give in depth descriptions as to how one finds these jobs. The book certainly needs a revision but is a good start in those seeking career opportunities in reading books.	2001-05-23
US	50703543	R1592HOIWACN29	0312092377	889538603	Slow Burn: A Marti Macalister Mystery	Books	4	2	2	N	N	BABY DOLLS	An abortion clinic is torched and there is no doubt in the minds of the police that an arsonist is on the loose. When a body of an unknown little girl is discovered and two other murders occur in the same neighborhood Marti and Vik are ready to do overtime and double time in a case which becomes bigger than they imagined.<br />     Join with Marti and Vik as they uncover a child pornography ring which takes young girls, makes them into &quot;baby dolls&quot; and pimp them to the highest bidder. A simple case of arson leads Marti into places where she never wanted to go and makes her unmask the evil behind the community's outstanding citizens. You will be put on pins and needles as you enter the sordid life of crime as viewed by Marti and her partner. Experience the anger of betrayal and the sadness of exploited young girls.	2001-05-23
US	50703543	R1HW9W19U23BHV	9991233172	189356229	Profiles in Achievement (College Entrance Exam Board)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	OVERCOMING THE OBSTACLES	Profiles In Achievement is a brief biography of eight outstanding young people (today not so young) who overcame  numerous obstacles to gain success. In every profile, education was the main goal that spurred them onto greater things in life.<br />     Who are these young people? One was packed like a sardine in a leaky boat trying to make his way to freedom. Another young lady had to endure the taunts and violence of her schoolmates merely because she was of a different race. Their backgrounds are different, their names have now become well known and they achieved far beyond what they imagined. Why? Because they would never let anything intefere with their goal of obtaining an education.<br />     These inspiring stories are great for teens who are thinking about pursuing a college degree. They will be amazed over the obstacles that Arthur Ashe, Henry Cisneros and the other six people profiled in the book had to go through as young people to achieve in life. Education was the key and I highly reccomend this informative book on achievement.	2001-05-22
US	50703543	R2259DOZWQ3E3Q	0195065107	736179450	The Oxford Companion to African American Literature	Books	5	6	6	N	N	OUTSTANDING RESOURCE	Everything that you wanted to know or needed to know about African American Literature is contained in this eight hundred page volume. This comprehensive volume covers the historical and cultural contexts of African American literature that has been too long neglected.<br />     Oxford's Companion  encompasses the  traditional genres of poetry, fiction and drama but goes beyond them. It gives the same analysis to special genres such as Slave Narratives, Oratory, Folk Literature, etc. that you don't normally find in reference works of this kind. These special features and others give this book a unique spot in reference works of literature.<br />     From the moment I got this volume in my hands, I couldn't put it down. Its numerous essays, brief biographies and analysis of the various hues of African American Literature was overwhelming and enjoyable. A referance guide such as this should be in every home. It is user friendly, informative and entertaining. Most of all it will give you a deeper appreciation of the vast types of African American literature produced throughout the years.	2001-05-20
US	50703543	R29PAVOBRVI36Y	0738203556	302123272	Recollections: An Autobiography	Books	3	43	45	N	N	SNAPSHOTS OF A LIFE	Viktor Frankl has presented us with snap shots of the key events in his life. These recollections were never intended for publication but through the encouragement of his publisher this slim volume was made available for readers. Thus begins our journey in looking at the life of the founder of Logotherapy and the author of &quot;Man's Search for Meaning.&quot;<br />     Frankl's life is filled with interesting portraits. We learn of his mother's patrician background and the fact that she was descended from a family of prominent rabbis. His father was a struggling student and was director of the government's Ministry of Social Services.<br />     We get to see this inquisitive young man as he is impacted by Freud, Hirschmann, Schilder and Adler as he begins to step int the field of psychoanalysis. Through his philosophical questionings and debates with these giants in the field we find Frankl developing his own methodology. March of 1938 became a turing point for the young man as his country is invaded by the Nazis and he is placed in a concentration camp. From that experience wee see a new personality arising who meets the psychological, emotional and spiritual tensions in his life with utmost grace.We see a man who has the opportunity to leave Austria and avoid the concentration camps but he elects to stay and care for his parents.<br />     Unfortunately this memoir is not a full autobiography of Frankl. You receive sketches of his life and end up wanting more. Read in conjunction with Man's Search for Meaning, the reader can gain further insight on this great personality. I believe this book serves as a supplemental text for the author's Man Search for Meaning.&quot; Hopefully a full scale biographical work will come out on Frankl. Until then, this slender volume will whet your appetite to learn more about this great man.	2001-05-20
US	50703543	R3W3B6K6C2IS5F	157392119X	733525605	Profiles of Black Success: Thirteen Creative Geniuses Who Changed the World	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A LOOK AT SUPER-ACHIEVERS	Are there differences in achievement when it comes to race? This is the predominant question which the author attempts to answer through his study of thirteen African-American super achievers. From the start of his work the author makes very clear that greatness is greatness and is not predetermined by genetic influences and the inane concept of race.<br />     I found this book to be very inspiring in pointing out the various personality traits that enables one to become successful. The author's use of various personality type theories (Myers-Briggs, Farley's Personality Types,etc) to explain what makes these individuals &quot;tick&quot; was very helpful. His survey of each individuals' imprint for success and summary for them gives an excellent snap shot on what success entailed for these individuals.<br />     Although the work is intriguing many questions abound. For example of the thirteen profiled (Oprah Winfrey, Bill Cosby, Berry Gordy, etc.) the vast majority are in the field of entertainment/sports.Why? Is it because the society only opened opportunities for Blacks in those areas? His dominant traits for these subjects success are not anything new. Many other Blacks have possessed them but never made it to &quot;the top&quot;. Why? Our author fails to point out what is it in Black culture that nurtured these people to success inspite of the obstacles.<br />     Profiles of Black Success is a good starting point in studying how African Americans survive against the odds. I would hope that other African-American writers specialized in behavior theory could present us with a more incompassing and complete work on how Black culture plays its part in success. Until then this book will do.	2001-05-19
US	50703543	R2IR998YNRZVOY	1860192025	921871993	Kipling: Victorian Balladeer (Illustrated Poetry Anthology Series)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A RICH ANTHOLOGY	Adults and children will love this illustrated anthology of Kipling's best-loved versed. Many of us are well acquainted with Kipling's prose works that have given readers great joy throughout the years. In this particular work we encounter Kipling the poet whose verse was profound enough to attract the attention of both young and old.<br />    Allow yourself to savor the wisdom from Sussex, 1902 and be inspired with his memorable poem If. Chant along with your children &quot;The Law of the Jungle&quot; and become enriched by its music. Kipling is a great balladeer of the the english language.<br />     This anthology is illustrated with a selection of paintings that were inspired by his poetry. They provide a rich complement to this collection. I highly recommend this edition as gift to give to poetry lovers and to inspire others as they reflect upon their life's journey. It is certainly a &quot;must have&quot; in your poetry library.	2001-05-19
US	50703543	R3O9G3W87JR68X	0449906965	173593339	Instant English Literature	Books	4	1	1	N	N	EXPLORING LITERATURES' BEST	Have you ever had the urge to spend time reading the best of nineteenth century english literature but were intimidated by its great authors? Don't feel intimidated any more. You will enjoy this excellent survey of the classic authors of the nineteenth century. Instant English Literature: The Nineteenth Century takes away the pain of reading those great works forced upon you in high school english classes.<br />    This entertaining survey provides you with juicy tid-bits about the life of the authors, gives a summary of their major works and puts in perspective the context of the novel. You will find out why readers flocked to read Jane Eyre. See why Dickens' fans demanded more of his installments. Find out how each author contributed to the development of what we now know as the modern day novel.      Prior to reading this book I avoided  the Brontes, Austen, Trollope, Elliot and Kipling like a plague. Once I read the surveys I couldn't wait to tackle these greats that I had missed in high school. Pride and Prejudice where have you been? By all means pick up this enjoyable text which will give you an appreciation for nineteenth century literature and a craving to read some of the best authors of the time.	2001-05-11
US	50703543	R1VIYUVYV6CFL1	0064671240	904386905	HarperCollins College Outline Introduction to Philosophy (HARPERCOLLINS COLLEGE OUTLINE SERIES)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	EXCELLENT OVERVIEW	Western philosophy can become a complex subject to the point of confusing  lay persons and college undergraduates. HarperCollins College Outline series takes away that confusion by providing us with an in depth text summarizing the basic tenants and issues of philosophy without sacrificing the content.      Introduction to Philosophy gives the general reader and college student a basic overview of the field. It provides the reader with an outline, a clear narrative of each philosophic theory, gives the the arguments for and against each theory, and ends with a summary of what was presented in the chapter.      This is an excellent study guide for students and is a good review for those who have studied philosophy and want their memories refreshed. I highly recommend this book which is accessible, a good read and enjoyable for getting to know a subject that impacts upon our daily lives.	2001-05-10
US	50703543	RVFKO4C2SC04H	1563526387	976676403	Family Estrangements: How They Begin, How to Mend Them, How to Cope With Them	Books	5	14	21	N	N	HEALING FAMILY RIFTS	The alienation of family members from one another is a common occurrence in life. This estrangement causes a deep seated bitterness and pain that hurts the family and can often continue from one generation to the next. What can we do to heal these family rifts that cause so much chaos?<br />        Babara LeBey provides us with an answer in her book, &quot;Family Estrangements&quot;. She identifies the source of the problem, offers guidelines in dealing with estrangements and provides us with strategies on how to cope with them. The books covers a wide range of subjects that can cause family rifts such as divorce, sexual orientation, race, and inheritance. Each chapter also shares the stories of people who went through painful estrangements with their own families. They tell us what they learned from their own experiences and offer invaluable insights on coping with the alienation.<br />          I thoroughly enjoyed this book which I recommend for family members (dealing with estrangements), ministers and other helping professionals. Barbara LeBey is sensitive in her presentation and doesn't lay &quot;the blame&quot; on any individual as the source of the rift. She enables one to look at the situation, access what is going on and begin the process of healing. Family Estrangements is a practical resource book that can enable you to begin the process of healing the rifts within your family.	2001-04-16
US	50703543	R1731S2SUACIEX	0684855372	472571075	Summer of Deliverance: A Memoir of Father and Son	Books	4	0	2	N	N	RECOLLECTIONS OF A SON	Parents all to often suffer from the dis-ease of not being perfect in their childrens eyes especially when that child becomes an adult. Fathers in particular carry this burden. Christopher Dickey, a journalist, and the son of one of America's greatest poets, James Dickey, offers us his recollections of his father, who was not that perfect.<br />     Summer of Deliverance takes us into the mind of an adult son as he comes to terms with the impact of his father on his life. We see the best and worst of James Dickey as a father through the eyes of his elder son. Christopher's insights move beyond the &quot;tell all&quot; memoirs of other adult children attempting to &quot;kill&quot; the celebrity parent. You see the deep love that these two men had for one another. James Dickey loved his children despite his imperfections. Christopher shares with us his own life as he grows and becomes a father, a wordsmith and a reconciler for the family.<br />      Christopher moves beyond the ugliness in his fathers life and accepts the man for who he is and what he could have become for the family. Celebrate the triumphs of the Dickey family as they move through the the decades of their lives. See both Dickeys, James and Chris butt heads but come to a mutual respect of one another. See how both men grow to appreciate one another.<br />       This is a good book in presenting a son's perception of his father. It is not a detailed biography of James Dickey. Share in the insights of the son whose father's words impacted a generation of poets and writers.	2001-04-16
US	50703543	RY5RWQ56WLCG6	0312968183	693813709	See No Evil (Marti MacAlister Mysteries)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	BLIND EYES, BLIND HEART	He comes into your home, goes through your things and plots your family's death. Yet detective Marti MacAlister is totally oblivious to this evil presence in her own home. Will her blindness and that of her friend Sharon cost them their lives and that of their family?<br />       In this sixth case of the Marti MacAlister series we find the detective consumed by the murder of a woman and the disappearance of her snitch's best friend. Marti's room mate is consumed by her inability to say no to &quot;Mr Wonderful&quot; thus compromising her self esteem and neglecting the children. Throw in a kid trying to become a gang member, a flasher and people who refuse to report what they see and you have quite a mess going on the job.<br />       This is an intriguing story as we see the intertwining of Marti's personal life with that of her job. We see the budding sexuality of her daughter and the courageness of Ben, her fiance.  Marti's consuming time on the job interferes with what is so plainly before her as she begins a new step in her life. Follow her along this track of evil. See if she awakes before it is too late.	2001-04-12
US	50703543	R34EB1Y939LH0Z	0312961723	459586965	Keep Still (Marti MacAlister Mysteries)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	DEADLY SILENCE	An old woman falls down some basement stairs and ends up dead. Accidents do happen. Marti and Vik are sure that this case is the result of an accident. Forensic evidence proves otherwise so Marti and Vik must expend their energy on solving this case and another one.<br />     You would think the detectives would have enough on their hands with two murders but before they know it a string of accidents and beatings also occur which further drains the team. All through their investigation they're led to an unsolved case of a little girl's disappearance seven years ago. A pandora's box of abuse, guilt and murder unfolds before them.<br />       Keep Still won't keep you still as you wonder how the criminal justice system fails its young and old people. Marti and Vik get a new member on the team, Lupe, who is more than a match for the vice cops, Cowboy and Slim. Join with this team and engaging story as they solve this complex mystery.	2001-04-02
US	50703543	R8IUDG0IPUPBC	0312957947	292331100	Done Wrong (Marti MacAlister Mysteries)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	SETTING THINGS RIGHT	Three years have passed since the death of Marti's husband in an undercover narcotics operation. His death was thought a suicide. Although Marti had her doubts she never pushed for any further information. Now another agent has died under similar circumstances. Like Marti, this agent's wife is told that the death is a probable suicide. His widow informs Marti that he too was suspicious about her husband's death and was asking questions.<br />     Marti sees that she can no longer remain silent. She must set the record straight over her husband's death. In this mystery we come across a different Marti as she relives the pain, shock and memories of her husband's death. You find a woman who is very sensitive but must hold back her emotions in order to unravel this long overdue mystery. Watch her and Vik weave through a quagmire of police cronyism and corruption as they uncover information long hidden in the investigation of her husband's death and those of other key players.<br />     Brace yourself for the violence, racism and betrayal of friends as these two detectives pour through the evidence that will put their lives in danger. This side of Marti is one in which you will never forget.	2001-04-01
US	50703543	R3G930HEBYNPMO	0312203780	926068966	Scream in Silence (Marti MacAlister Mysteries)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	MOTHERS AND SONS	It is hard being a mother especially if you are old and helpless. Your only child, a son, becomes your keeper. At times he appears mean, just like his father, but that's okay. You do wonder what he does as he leaves you in your home alone, tired and frightened.<br />     Detectives Marti and Vik find themselves on the trail of an arsonist and bomber whose unleashed anger begins to terrorize their community. A dead body found at one of his fires unfolds a mystery involving Vik's past loves and a series of corrupt land deals. As the detectives methodically unravel the evidence they encounter mothers and sons whose relationships set off a time bomb of abuse, deceit and dependency.<br />      Eleanor Bland once again does a great job in exploring the psychological and emotional forces that lead sons to commit acts that only a mother would forgive. Through the investigation Marti begins to examin the relationship with her own son while Vik explores a teenage relationship long dead. Join with these two detectives as they attempt to make sense out of incidents that hit to close to home in their personal lives.	2001-03-27
US	50703543	R14GH4HDKHZGZU	0451182677	506332648	Gone Quiet	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A FAMILY AFFAIR	Deacon Hamilton was an upright stalwart member of his church and a stern patriarch of his family. His death in bed was thought to be from a fatal disease. A routine investigation reveals more. Hamilton did not die from a disease or natural causes. Someone murdered him.<br />     Enter detectives Marti and Vik as they attempt to solve the murder of this well respected man who is the stepfather of one of their juvenile probation officers. A case like this sounds easy but Marti and Vik run into a quagmire of silence, old hatreds and hidden family secrets. Hamilton was not all that he appeared to be. To make matters worse the list of suspects grows to the point of including their colleague.<br />     You will enjoy this murder mystery as Marti and Vik attempt to unravel years of pain and denial in a family affair gone awry. Issues of abuse, rejection and low self esteem impregnant the Deacon's family, all of whom had a motive to kill him. Which one. I enjoyed this thriller and loved the way Bland handled a sensitive topic all to often kept under wraps. The main weakness of the text was its predictable characters and useless subplots that didn't add to the story. Other than those defects Bland gave us an engaging tale which causes us to take a look at the hidden family secrets that we may carry.	2001-03-24
US	50703543	RMHTB1SJUVE97	0936885114	658391560	Sword Swallowers & Dream Followers - part 1	Books	4	1	1	N	N	TALKING THINGAMAJIGS, ODD CONTRAPTIONS &amp; TROUP SHOWS	Come travel with Dennis Goodwin on his tour of American entertainment. This time you are given a peek of tent shows, early radio and classic television programs in Part 1 of this amusing and informative booklet.<br />      Rural America was hungry for the culture of the theatre. James McVicker, during the 1850's, filled their appetite by taking his show on the road. After all, theatre-goers in the city got bored with seeing the same play over again and our pioneer needed the income while rebuilding his threatre. Thus began a great tradition of travelling actors, line snafus and rowdy audiences that birthed the emergance of American theatre.<br />     Everybody wanted one of those talking thingamajigs so they could listen to the various word pictures coming through the air waves. Radio captured America by the storm in the 1920's and brought with it those memorable characters of the Shadow, Gangbusters, Amos and Andy, and other shows. Finally the odd contraption called television arrived bringing with it the visual images as well as sound. Thus new programs emerged that have become classics: I Love Lucy, The Honey Mooners and The Ed Sullivan Show were just a few of the programs that ushered in a new entertainment age.<br />      Goodwin's book is funny, extremely interesting and informative as we see the transition of entertainment from one form to the next. For those of you who remember radio in its hey day, you will be delighted to reaquaint yourself with the era. Those who were influenced by TV will enjoy visiting their favorite programs that set the standard for future television offerings. Enjoy this book.	2001-03-12
US	50703543	R10SYOTH5X6B4K	1563526522	217295746	Get Ahead: Scovil's Seven Rules for Success in Management	Books	5	2	2	N	N	MANAGEMENT WISDOM	After a forty-six year career in business,  Roger Scovil shares with us key rules in getting ahead in business. If you want to manage successfully in business, government, the non-profit sector and your life, this book is for you.<br />      Roger Scovil's seven rules for success in management are a common sense approach  in operating an efficient and thriving business. On the surface they may sound simplistic but these simple rules will make or break a company if not employed. Don't make enemies, hire smarter people than yourself, delegate, train your subordinates, treat clients with respect, get on the boss's wave length and remember the organizational chart are the rules. Scovil's explanation of applying those rules is the key to your successful career.<br />     Anyone who is in management in any form should have this book as their personal mentor. It is full of wisdom, informative and  gives you practical advice to enable for you to succeed both in the corporate world but also in life.	2001-03-12
US	50703543	RWSY6AS3YNETG	0316692492	50654218	Shannon	Books	3	5	6	N	N	AN IRISH TRAGEDY	Kevin O'Farrell is a lucky young man. From impoverished beginnings he rises to the pinnacles of wealth and success. A tragic price is paid for his climb as we witness his brother's treachery, his father-in-law's deceit and the mental breakdown of his beautiful wife Shannon.<br />      Told in the backdrop of World War I, worker's strikes, and the frenzied growth of industry, Shannon is a novel that will flood you with the problems of the times. Although the book is entitled Shannon its main character is Kevin who is the slender thread who holds everything in place. Hannibal Jones, a Black man who saved Kevin's life is weaved into this tragic story whose consequences will have a negative impact on his life.<br />      The author starts with a good story but fails to follow it through. He attempts to tell us to much as to what was happening in the time period. You get bogged down with useless details. All of the women are portrayed as being victimized or either weak. None of them show any internal strength of their own to weather the storms which come their way. Shannon has more than one story and because of that, the complete story of the characters are never told. Each character deserves a book of their own.<br />     This isn't one of the best of Parks' novels. Yet it is worth the reading and the collecting of a man who is a prolific photographer, composer, and writer.	2001-03-11
US	50703543	R1MDEK9L1S0AR0	0465001130	64882490	All That We Can Be: Black Leadership And Racial Integration The Army Way	Books	2	4	19	N	N	EXCELLENT PROPOGANDA	Charles Moskos and John Butler have delievered in our hands an excellent propoganda treatsie telling us that integration has worked in the Army. It has worked without lowering standards and has provided an environment in which African-Americans can excel. Surely society and other institutions need to take a look at the Army and borrow some of its strategies to provide equal opportunity for African-Americans in the civilian sector.<br />     If you have served in the Army for any length of time you would know that is is not &quot;race&quot; free. Institutional racism was not addressed in this text. Although you have African-Americans in leadership positions in the NCO Corps that changes when we go into the officer's Corps and when we look at positions that African-Americans hold in each branch. Not everything is equal.<br />      The Army is portrayed as a good paternalistic organization which is able to take low performing Blacks and make them into good soldiers. Very little is mentioned at all that many Blacks who have joined the Army have come from stable homes, have a sense of purpose and are instilled with deep family values. These young men and women will be successful in any environment.<br />       Of course there are certain things that outside organizations can learn from the Army and implement the changes in their structures. We must keep in mind that the Army has different control systems in place by virtue of its nature that can't be duplicated in the civilian world. In such a case the Army is able to be successful in integrating its force. The Army's purpose is to defend our country. It can't do it if there is racial strife in the organization. Racists behavior is not in its best interest for defence.<br />    If you create an environment where there is a level playing field then everyone has the opportunity to excel. What the Army has done is not unique as Moskos implies. Civilian society can not be compared with the Army because of its unique mission.The Army doesn't change until society tells it to do so.<br />     Mr. Moskos would have done a better job in presenting the Army as an alternative for African-Americans to explore as they embark on their way to viable careers for their lives. The Army is not racism free and better attention needs to be addressed to the institutional barriers. Purchase this book if you are highly optimistic or have your head buried in the sand regarding integration the Army way.	2001-03-05
US	50703543	RL6WO5R8ZYDRU	1874166102	507900697	Introducing Jesus	Books	3	5	6	N	N	WHO IS JESUS?	The above question has stimulated debates and arguments throughout the centuries and still hasn't been resolved. Jesus For Beginners attempts to answer the question through exploring the Jesus of history, the Jesus of faith and the Jesus as seen through the eyes of the institution called the church.<br />     Readers are given a clear and broad historical view of Jesus, the times he lived in and the context in which he preached his message. From there we are led into the theological developments of Jesus as interpreted by the Apostle Paul and finally we are given a sweeping view of how Christianity in the form of an institution (the church) dealt with defining the person of Jesus in order to stifle doctrinal dissent.<br />      The material in the book is good as well as its presentation. O'Hear attempts to be objective but ends up in a quagmire of doubt in finally pinpointing who Jesus was. In many cases the author shows his ignorance about theological views that focus on Jesus by not giving them a closer examination. If anything, O'Hear keeps the debate going. Those who have theological training will appreciate O'Hear's attempts to introduce Jesus and his place in history. I picture this book as one for stimulating discussions about Jesus for those who are professional religionists (clergy, seminairians, laity in full time ministry) as well as someone who wants to know about the historical character called Jesus.	2001-03-02
US	50703543	R2A57P4ZY5OVWY	081391308X	755229129	Fifth Sunday: Stories (Callaloo Fiction Series)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A POET'S SHORT STORIES	Most readers are more familiar with Rita Dove, the poet. Suprise! Rita Dove has also done short stories and eight of them are collected in this wonderful volume called Fifth Sunday. It is the first collection of short stories by this reknowned poet.<br />     Fifth Sunday opens the door in the life of African-Americans dealing with life in varied settings. Come to church with Valerie as she daydreams about love and ends up in embarassing circumstances. Check out a gang &quot;leader&quot; from the 60's as he gets married and unexpected guests arrive. Share the Spray Paint King's boredom with the psychologist trying to find out why he does this art.<br />     Dove's characters are complex, down to earth and won't hesitate to speak their minds. From the mid-west to Germany journey with these multi-dimensional characters who will surprise you.<br />      I found this book to be a refreshing look at a poet working in another genre. Rita Dove does a superb job and by all means treat yourself to this marvelous work.	2001-03-01
US	50703543	R2PPHTJ98QI71O	0375405518	21306841	Hughes: Poems (Everyman's Library Pocket Poets Series)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A P0CKET FULL OF INSPIRATION	Everyman's Library of Pocket Poets presents an accessible collection of Langston Hughes' poems right before our finger tips. Culled from Hughes', &quot;The Collected Poems of Langston Hughes&quot;, you are able to read and reflect upon some of the best of Hughes' work during a fifty year period.<br />      Whether he's writing in the jazz or blues idiom, your soul will be touched by the magnificence of one of America's great poets. Some of his memorable poems are at your service. Deal with &quot;The Weary Blues&quot;. Laugh at his critique in &quot;To Certain Negro Leaders&quot; and meditate on &quot;The Negro Speaks of Rivers&quot;. Hughes will reach you intellectually and emotionally with his work.<br />       I enjoyed this volume because of the poet, the format of the book (it is easy to carry around) and the broad range of poems it contains. It is indeed a pocket full of inspiration that you need to have and share with others.	2001-03-01
US	50703543	R1T14JXOXLP2OW	0684864142	400589607	The African-American Century: How Black Americans Have Shaped Our Country	Books	3	17	18	N	N	SHOWCASE OF AFRICAN AMERICAN ACCOMPLISHMENT	What would the 20th century in America look like without the contributions of its African-American citizens? Henry Gates and Cornel West take up that very question in chronicling how African-Americans shaped the culture of the United States. The authors profile African-Americans from each decade of the 20th century and show how their accomplishments have impacted upon the country.<br />      Overall the authors have produced a good book for coffee table discussions and stimulating conversations about African American contributions. Its weakness lies in the fact that most of these persons are already known, it leans heavily towards those in the field of entertainment and many of the essays are unclear as to what the person contributed beyond being the first Black in their field.<br />      Another element missing is the lack of information regarding what was going on in the person's particular decade that enabled them to achieve against the odds. The African American Century falls short in giving you a full comprehensive look at what Blacks achieved throughout the decades. You are left with individual biographical portraits of those who &quot;made it&quot;. I recommend the book as a referance guide for those unaquainted with the persons profiled. Perhaps the authors will come up with another volume that is more comprehensive of the achievements of African Americans in fields other than entertainment and sports.	2001-02-27
US	50703543	R2P18116E95LOS	0664223265	989239520	Paradoxes for Living: Cultivating Faith in Confusing Times	Books	4	5	5	N	N	NAVIGATING THROUGH LIFE'S AMBIGUITY	A paradox on the surface appears as a contradictory statement but on closer reflection reveals a fundamental truth. Christians live in a faith full of paradoxes but find themselves unable to fully understand their meaning. Is Jesus really serious when he says in order to become strong, we must become weak? Are we expected to become like children before we can enter in the kingdom of God? None of the above makes sense but in order to understand our role as Christians in this life we must struggle with these statements and many more.<br />     Paradoxes For Living is an invitation for us to explore these numerous paradoxes in our faith and go through the process of embracing them in order to live a full life. N. Graham Standish brings to us those scriptures that seem so contradictory but through study and reflection we see where these verses call upon us to live a more authentic Christian life. Our author is not squeamish in having us deal with the issues of power, suffering, self-examination and other topics that confronts our tendancy to become comfortable in a world whose mores we fail to question.<br />     Standish's book is not just a theological treatsie for one to debate in the classroom. Nor is it just a simple Bible study resource where we can gloss over its meaning. Paradoxes cuts deep into your soul and calls you to further cultivate your faith in these chaotic times in which we live. After each chapter, the reader is given reflective exercises to do as well as questions to reflect upon. The author also provides you with additional resources to help you in your spiritual growth. This is an excellent book for both individual as well as group study in fostering spiritual maturity.	2001-02-26
US	50703543	RELYSOWIBY2ZA	0827216157	432624572	In God's Presence: Theological Reflections on Prayer	Books	4	24	25	N	N	REFLECTIONS  ON PRAYER	What is this &quot;thing&quot; called prayer? At sometime or another in our lives we have asked that question. Is it possible that the God of creation actually listens to and answers our prayers or are we having a monologue with ourselves? For those of us who have struggled with these and other questions concerning prayer, &quot;In God's Presence&quot; offers invaluable insights about this wonderful gift of communication.<br />     Majorie Suchocki shares with us her reflections about prayer from both a theological and personal perspective. She leads us through the various conceptions of what we think prayer &quot;is&quot; and shows us another view that moves beyond our well worn myths of communicating with God. We are challenged to look and examin every facet of prayer from the way we view God to offering prayers of thanksgiving and praise.<br />     This is not a &quot;how to&quot; book on prayer with pat formulas to communicate with God. The strength of this work is its insistence on urging us to reflect upon just what we are doing as we pray and the impact it has on us, God and the world. In that reflection prayer becomes more meaningful and alive. I highly recommend this work for those who want to move beyond the mundane babblings that we call prayer and establish a coherent and interdependent conversation with God who cares.	2001-02-22
US	50703543	R126SNE7VZM70V	0066620414	601558949	amazon.com - Get Big Fast : Inside the Revolutionary Business Model That Changed the World	Books	4	2	4	N	N	E-COMMERCE'S DARLING CHILD	In less than a decade Amazon.com has established itself as the &quot;darling&quot; of e-commerce. Its name is ingrained in our minds and hearts. How did this phenomena come about? Robert Spector, gives us a wide sweeping historical overview of the creation of the company and the great impact its founder, Jeff Bezos, has had on the business community.<br />     Amazon.com is the pioneer in internet commerce. One could say that the company defined just how business could be done over the internet. You are introduced to Bezos' business plan and philosophy as he develops the company step by step.<br />      I enjoyed the story behind the development of Amazon.com. What is most intriguing is the speed in which this occurred and the amounts of money spent. I was amazed at the founder's philosopy of getting big fast even though Amazon.com continuously lost money. The bottom line for any company is to make a profit. Amazon.com hasn't done so. Why is it still in business? That within itself is a question that hasn't been answered.<br />        Amazon.com will not give you a detailed analysis of the company's operation. Nor will you find an in depth critique of Bezos' philosophy. What you have is an introduction to a trend setter for e-commerce in the 21st Century. Even though it is good to read about Amazon.com's rise you don't really can't get a handle on where this business is going in the future (or do you?) when it continuously loses money. Of course Bezos thinks long term but in the interim some indication of profit must come about.<br />       In the past couple of months we have seen the demise of a number of  Dot coms. Wall Street's love affair with its internet start ups has come to a sour end. Even Amazon.com has had to close its warehouses and downsize. Is this an indicator of Amazon.com's impending demise or its metamorphosis into something new? Only time will tell. This book is a good read but don't put your faith into the principles expoused until you see a profit from Amazon.com. By all means read this book and learn how this pioneer defined e-commerce in this new century.	2001-02-20
US	50703543	R1I5FQUHFE92MU	0884896498	738105155	Praying Our Experiences	Books	4	13	13	N	N	TRANSFORMING THE CONVERSATION	All to often prayer is viewed as a perfunctory task that we go through in order to communicate with God. Our prayers may consist of flowery words that are not relevant to our lives and sound artificial to our ears. Is it a surprise then that people have such great difficulty with prayer?<br />      Joseph Schmidt challenges us in breaking the above view by suggesting another alternative in communicating with God. Why not honestly reflect on the daily events of our lives and become aware of God's word and work in them? In other words, pray our experiences which give meaning to life instead of babbling to God about things that don't touch us.<br />       If God is the source of our existence then we can know God through our experiences. Prayer takes on a new meaning and enables us to enter in life more fully and intereact intimately with the God who Loves us for who and what we are. Such a notion is radical and gives us a new perspective in honestly sharing ourselves with God.<br />        Praying Our Experiences shows us the process of how we can get to know ourselves as God knows us. Step by step Schmidt introduces us to a way in which we can begin the experience. This is not a formula driven book on prayer where you learn techniques for praying. Our author presents to us a guide to enable you to develop a more fully developed prayer life devoid of the barriers which we place in the way of knowing ourselves and God. Such a book is an excellent guide in helping you to achieve a deeper intimacy of God in your prayer life.	2001-02-20
US	50703543	RSP8HS99E13AD	068825294X	97330035	Black Feeling Black Talk	Books	4	5	5	N	N	REVOLUTIONARY RHETORIC	A new and dynamic poet is in town. Her words are fiery and militant. She takes no prisoners and makes you think. Are you ready to listen to this young woman? Black Feeling, Black Talk, Black Judgement is Nikki Giovanni's first public collection of poems. In this slender volume we are caught up in the Black Revolution of the 60's. Nikki's voice is loud, clear and inspires all who will dare hear her.<br />       You will enjoy this work of the young Nikki as she articulates the cause of Black Nationalism and the Black Arts movement. At such a young age she has so much insight but her poetry  moves beyond revolutionary rhetoric. Listen to &quot;Nikki-Rosa&quot; as she contemplates childhood rememberances. Attune your ears to &quot;The Great Pax Whitie&quot; where peace is still. Allow yourself to be challenged with &quot;The True Import of Present Dialogue&quot;and see what you are made of.<br />       Nikki will make you uncomfortable but will raise your consciousness. The only &quot;flaw&quot; of this reissue is the fact that it needs a new introduction to put it in its historical context for new readers. A first time reader would find many of her poems dated due to their ignorance of the time. The collection gives us a glimpse of an emerging young Black poet who is committed to her art and to the revolution. Enjoy this militant young voice who refuses to compromise.	2001-02-19
US	50703543	R37F7YXW3AYI53	0140187464	364993993	The Moon Is Down	Books	4	3	3	N	N	THE CONQUERED OR THE CONQUERER?	The setting is World War II and in less than an hour a small Norwegian town is captured by the Nazi forces. Peace has been in the hamlet for so long that the Mayor is befuddled as to what is the proper protocol for a city under occupation.<br />      If you believe this is a simple story of naive people then you are just as bad as the Nazi commander who thinks the same. Steinbeck's brilliance has presented us with a complex psychological drama of war. What we have portrayed is a commander who surrenders his common sense and judgement to his far off superiors in controlling the town. He is so sure of his stance even when he sees things are falling apart.<br />     Come to this little hamlet and witness a people whose stubborness won't allow them to be conquered. Feel the alienation of the German soldiers as they become stripped of their humanity and relegated to madness. See those whom you think are naive and stupid rise to the occasion in displaying great courage and leadership.<br />       Steinbeck has done an exceptional job in displaying the horrors and absurdity of the so-called conquered and conquerer. Are the two what they appear to be or are they something more? Find out as the moon slowly comes down.	2001-02-17
US	50703543	R2INDJWTHP4OPW	0964928310	606167271	A Christmas Dozen: Christmas Stories to Warm the Heart (Storyteller of the Heart, 2)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	SENTIMENTAL STORIES OF CHRISTMAS	Your hearts will be touched from this collection of charming and delightful Christmas stories by the Christmas Story Pastor. The experience of Christmas is varied from person to person as they (animals too) share their tales. For example, did you know that elephants were present at the manger scene? How do soldiers who are sworn to kill one another celebrate the birth of the Christ Child? Where did the mysterious frozen turkey and &quot;blanket&quot; come from at the annual Christmas pageant?<br />       These and other questions will keep you guessing and smiling as you go down memory lane in experiencing Christmases long gone. Share these tales with family, friends and congregations as you are moved in experiencing the true meaning of Christmas.	2001-02-17
US	50703543	R2VQ6AQL89GHC4	0312200676	490371386	Tell No Tales: A Marti MacAlister Mystery #7	Books	4	0	1	N	N	SECRETS UNCOVERED	A body of an eccentric derelict is found in a basement apartment. Newly-wed Marti's brief honeymoon is interrupted to investigate the case. Vik, her partner is also aroused from his duty in caring for his wife with multiple sclerosis. Neither detective is a happy camper in coming into work. Hours later they get another call. This time a mummified body is found in a boarded up theatre. What more can happen?<br />      Marti and Vik find themselves caught up in a mystery that tests their partnership, strains their family relationships and forces Vik to re-examine his hero worship of Curly Smith, a man who was like a second father to him. At first glance the two bodies have nothing to do with one another but as these detectives plow through the facts, secrets are uncovered.<br />       Join these two as they unravel a mystery containing many actors spread over three decades. Watch Marti as she attempts to understand the social and political mores of the times that led to the murder of the mummy. Explore Vik's feelings concerning his father, his uncritical love for Curly and his guilt over his wife's illness.<br />        Tell no Tales weaves an intricate web of emotions, politics, wealth, prejudice and failed justice that grabs the reader and has you wondering just how things will turn out. Bland does a good job in putting us in the detectives' shoes in exploring all aspects of the two cases which don't seem to be inter-related. You won't be able to put this tale down.	2001-02-13
US	50703543	R37B70DSVKOIJP	0140109862	841135736	Uncommon Genius: How Great Ideas are Born	Books	3	4	14	N	N	A LOOK INTO CREATIVITY	How are great ideas born and made to come alive? Denise Shekerjian attempts to answer this question through her interviews with forty winners of the MacArthur Award.These eclectic and sometime eccentric fellows share with us their musings on the creative drive that shaped their lives.<br />     Part one of her text gives us the nuts and bolts of what it takes to establish the creative impulse. Part two focuses on the pragmentic concerns of re-orienting your perspective. Part three shares with us the issue of mental health in spurring on creativity and the need to build resiliency in your life to keep the process flowing.<br />     The text is engaging, the people interesting and their insights are well worth taking notice. Unfortunately so much has been written about the creative process that in this day in time her book loses its spark. We are told right off that creativity is not some magic gift handed to us by the Gods. It is something that we can develop but at the same time you don't get a good handle on how these eminent individuals were able to develop their gifts to the fullest.<br />       Although forty were interviewed only a few of the full fledged interviews are given here. Most of those profiled are men and very few minorities. You wonder if creativity is endowed only to those who are male and happen to win this award?<br />        If you want a book to go into more detail concerning creativity this is not the one. If you want to know more about those unique persons who won the MacArthur Fellowship or want a very sweeping view of the creative process this book is certainly for you.	2001-02-11
US	50703543	R1DAETRT67P3MC	0664240860	167591653	To Will God's Will: Beginning the Journey	Books	4	4	5	N	N	FIRST STEPS	Spirituality can be defined as an act of allowing God's will to manifest itself in one's life. One asks the question as to how  this is done? To Will God's Will gives us the initial steps in beginning this journey. Johnson's text encourages you to allow God's will to take control over your life. You are shown how to get to know God better through the process of embarking on a spiritual journey.<br />       It is through the sharing of the story of your life's journey that you are able to know yourself and consider God's accompaniment with you throughout your life. To Will God's Will points out the process by which this intimate journey can take place.<br />       This excellent spiritual primer points out ways on how you can maintain that focus on God through various spiritual disciplines in addition to the worship experience. Johnson provides a number of exercises and questions for one to use after each chapter as you embark upon the spiritual journey. Used alone or in a group this book will shake your preconceived notions about God and will inspire you to form a deeper relationship with God in your spiritual walk.	2001-02-03
US	50703543	R15Z6Y7J4NNSA6	0802137253	251795029	And They Shall Be My People: An American Rabbi and His Congregation	Books	4	8	8	N	N	TO LIVE THE LIFE	Jay Rosenbaum is for some people just an ordinary conservative rabbi doing his job. A year spent with him by the author reveals another aspect of the man who struggles with trying to get his congregation to live an observant life and enjoy the full spiritual richness of Judaism.<br />      We get the opportunity to witness the day by day ups and downs in the life of Rabbi Rosenbaum's family as well as congregation.  Rabbi Rosenbaum has his own hopes and dreams for his congregation but will they follow along with him? Or will they resist any changes and insist on staying at their comfort level? The Rabbi has a great challenge ahead of him which I found most intriguing in this book.<br />       Rabbi Rosenbaum's story is the story of the current crisis in American Judaism. Through the tracking of his one year we see the intrigues and infighting going on with the congregation. The issue of declining membership and inter-marriage permeates through the story. Another great issue is that of clergy burnout. The Rabbi puts far more into his commitment than the congregation's leadership is willing to compensate him. Yet through it all, Rabbi Rosenbaum maintains his hope and desire for his people to become a true community of Jewish faith.<br />        His struggle with faith becomes your struggle.A congregational trip to Israel confronts him and them with their true sense of spirituality. I enjoyed the tension of the Rabbi and the members who had to make a stand as to what they wanted for their lives.<br />        While reading this book you will gain a deeper appreciation of the work of the Rabbi, the need for Judaism to serve the needs of its new generation without compromises and the need to find ways for Jews to survive in an enticing American secular culture. Rabbi Rosenbaum shows us a little light in which these issues must be confronted and resolved if Judaism is to be a relevant force in the 21st century.	2001-01-10
US	50703543	R284S928YPPOVL	0670891606	483170918	Rosa Parks (Penguin Lives)	Books	5	9	13	N	N	UNAPPRECIATED ACTIVIST	Rosa Parks is a name we should know. As an icon of the civil rights movement, her legendary refusal to give up her seat on the segregated bus started one of the greatest revolutions since the Civil War. Many of us a familiar with this non-assuming woman who was the catalyst in inspiring the careers of Martin Luther King, Jr. and other famous civil rights activists.<br />     We are comfortable with the image of the mild mannered Christian woman who always stayed in the background. Ah, but just how much do we really know about Rosa Parks except for the myth created? Are we really appreciative and aware of this woman who has been ignored only to be thought of again when politically expedient for others? Douglas Brinkley, in this short concise biography, removes the shroud of obscurity and myth about Rosa Parks. For the first time we are shown that the &quot;Mother of the Civil Rights Movement&quot; was more militant than we suspect. A highly intelligent and organized person, Mrs. Parks was an activist long before her famous bus ride and was very informed about what was going on in the movement locally as well as globally.<br />     The Rosa Parks presented in this text had a great aura of spirituality, strength  and dignity that exuded calm during a period of unrest. Misunderstood by her peers and her friends Rosa Parks emerged as the underlying spirit that enabled the movement to begin its course of action.<br />     We learn about the Rosa Parks who was a quiet young woman but had a fierce anger against injustice. She stayed an activist throughout her life inspite of the personal hardships in her marriage and with her mother.She is a woman of great spiritual strength and power. Brinkley presents us with a portrait of a woman that we never knew and have come to rediscover.	2000-12-31
US	50703543	R2AJNZVQOK7OV2	0786705736	859565042	Black Genius and the American Experience	Books	5	3	4	N	N	IN DEPTH PORTRAITS	Most biographical profiles of African-Americans are to general in their view of the person or superficial in the analysis of that person's contribution to American life. Dick Russell avoids both mistakes by providing you with an in depth portrait of Black men and women whose lives and work impacted upon the cultural milieu of America.<br />     A genius is defined as one who has an exceptional natural capacity of intellect. Black Genius shows you such persons but goes further in documenting the distinctive character or spirit of African-American experience that birthed these individuals. You have men and women representative in the fields of the arts, science and theological realms. Their individual achievements in those fields are a part of a continuous thread of genius passed down from one generation to the next.<br />     You will find people here that are not well known (and their work) except within their own communities or fields. Such examples are Bob Moses, Carl &amp; Allen Shaw, and Elma Lewis. Others are better known but the inner depth of their intellectual qualities are invisible. Albert Murray, Paul Robeson and others are just a few examples.<br />      Black Genius is a fresh look at African-American intellectuals from a different perspective and gives us a greater appreciation for their contributions. I enjoyed the fact that individuals were included that were not well known or hidden in obscurity. These are the people who serve as the continued thread and spirit of African-American life and culture. I highly recommend this text for those wanting to get a greater in depth look at the heart of what makes an African-American Genius.	2000-12-25
US	50703543	R2OT44MK53C0VD	0380803046	887291986	Ain't Nobody's Business If I Do	Books	3	12	12	N	N	SO-SO	After ten years of marriage Hutch decides to walk out on his wife. The thrill is gone. Eva, his wife, alone and dejected begins to put her life back together again. Oh, and let us not forget their grown son and daughter whose issues with their parents and themselves further muddies the waters.<br />      Thus begins the saga of a Black middle-class family torn apart by a love grown cold and their inability to find out what they truly want in life. Follow them on their journey to find fulfillment, reconciliation and renewal.<br />     If you like predictable formula driven romances then this is the book for you. Many of the characters are so &quot;wooden&quot; in their presentation to the point of being superficial. As you enter into the world of their lives you ask the question, So what? The fact that you can predict the next step of the characters makes it a slow and boring read. Our author gets an average rating for this her first book foray into what can be called a romance novel.<br />     Valerie Wilson Wesley is a far superior writer in her Tamara Hayle mystery series. This novel doesn't represent the depth and breadth of her outstanding skills. If she continues to write more in this genre then she will undoubtably get better. For now her attempt is just so-so.	2000-12-24
US	50703543	R2OOC51TM0L9Z	0805041664	573718808	Scientists & Doctors (Dynamic Modern Women)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	UNLIMITED VISION	The world of science is one of hard work with very few expectations of recognition or reward. Most women in the field are unknown and not many have received the recognition and honor that they have deserved. Dynamic Modern Women, a series of Henry Holt and Company, has focused on the achievements of ten women who have worked in the field of science and medicine.<br />       All of the women profiled come from diverse religious, ethnic, racial and sexual backgrounds. What is the common thread that binds these women together other than their love for science? Each one of them knew what they wanted, were determined to get it and overcame the various obstacles that got in their way. They dared to not limit their vision for the possibilities in their professional lives. Some were overlooked for their contributions ( Helen Taussig, Rosalyn Yalow) but kept on going in spite of the roadblocks. You will find women represented in physics, genetics,archeology and other scientific fields in which you wouldn't expect to find women.<br />     Although written for a juvenile audience, I must confess that this is a great book for those of us adults who are unfamiliar with the lives of these women in fields dominated by men. It is informative, inspirational and shows that women can tackle the field of the sciences and make some outstanding contributions which will impact on our future.	2000-12-24
US	50703543	R39WH7M8JU0RE4	0028617401	356061988	Literary Agents: A Writer's Introduction	Books	3	2	3	N	N	DISAPPOINTING	Not all books about literary agents are equal. This book is one of them and was a very disappointing resource. Up front you are told that &quot;in depth&quot; interviews are featured with the people who make it happen. I failed to find any in depth interviews but instead brief surveys of how each agent got started, their client list, their complaints and concerns regarding the publishing industry and the editors. All the above is great for nice chitter chatter but for those who have written a work and are looking for an agent another source would be more appropriate.<br />     The best part of the book is the introduction which gives an author a good overview of the functions and services that an agent provides. Several parts of the introduction would have served as separate chapters of their ownand then the interviews of the agents could have followed. <br />       I would caution new writers in purchasing this book if they want to know about agents and their role in electronic publishing. Not much if anything is said on the topic. Another danger is timeliness. By the time this book was published the addresses and phone numbers changed for the agents listed. I would highly recommend another book which would give you a more in depth look at literary agents. Even as an introductory level reference work this book doesn't do it. Purchase it if you like to know the stories and backgrounds of agents that have made it big over two or three decades but for current up to date  information try another book.	2000-12-22
US	50703543	R27EZRP2C0P889	0452276284	965749978	Everything You Need to Know about America's Jews and their History	Books	4	3	3	N	N	SURVEY OF AMERICAN JEWISH HISTORY	As a religious minority, Jewish Americans have had a great impact on the life and culture of the United States. Unfortunately many people are unaware of their contributions and thus another chapter in America's diverse history was ignored until now. Roy Rosenberg provides you with a sweeping historical survey of Jews in the United States from its very beginnings up to the present (in this case 1997).<br />     Don't expect to be bored with countless dates and facts. Using a question and answer format, you are immediately engaged in being illuminated about the history of Jewish life in America. Have all the questions you have asked about Jews in America answered for you as you share in learning about their contributions and lifestyles that influenced American culture.<br />     This is an excellent book for those who are unaware of Jewish history in the United States as well as those who have an interest in America's ethnic cultures. It serves as an introductory text which should lead you to further exploration.	2000-12-18
US	50703543	R36HCUS7SQMTER	0688128351	918450539	Kwanzaa: An African American Celebration Of Culture And Cooking	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A CULTURAL FEAST	Kwanzaa is rapidly approaching and as with all holidays requires detailed preparation. Contained in these pages are all the components you need for a meaningful Kwanzaa celebration with ritual and food.<br />     Eric Copage shares with us the origins of Kwanzaa as well as his own experiences in first celebrating the holiday. We are introduced to the seven princples of Kwanzaa and the relevance that it has for the African-American community.<br />     You can't have a true celebration unless good tasting food is present. At the very heart of the book are over 120 recipes for you to prepare for the Kwanzaa feast. The recipes are samples from Africans throughout the diaspora. Indulge yourself with pigeon peas and rice from the Caribbean. Avocado mousse with shrimp sauce from Brazil will tantilize your taste buds. A pot of mustard greens from &quot;down home&quot; (the South) in the United States will fill your belly. And let us not forget spicy matoke from Kenya. If you mouth is not watering yet for these delicious treats then something must be wrong with your taste buds.<br />       The above dishes are easy to make and you are provided with suggested menus for the feast. If by chance some of the unusual ingredients are not available in your local grocery store, never fear. Mail order resources are provided for you in the book. As Kwanzaa approaches enjoy the friendship, food and celebration but must of all stand firm with the principles which bind us together as a people. Enjoy! Happy Celebration.	2000-12-11
US	50703543	R1VVB4W1XRLWNU	0802727182	936056723	Finding God in Unexpected Places (Walker Large Print Books)	Books	4	12	13	N	N	GOD'S HABITATIONS	Western Christianity, particularly in the United States finds itself in spiritual doldrums. Most people would affirm their belief in God but are not quite sure if God is still hanging around. Philip Yancey provides a wake up call for those who suffer from such spiritual malaise. As a Christian journalist, he has found God in places where we would never expect. God is very much in the world working through men and women in reconciling them to him and one another.<br />     This wonderful collection of essays provide us with a close up view of God's presence in our world. They also deal with those issues which confront our faith and enables us to respond in a spiritual and intelligent manner to those who question us.Divided in six parts, Yancey shows us God without looking, in the workplace, in the headlines and yes even in the institution called the church. His work is inspiring and will make you take a second look at God in your life.	2000-12-11
US	50703543	RPTRL3ZBKOXQQ	1891984136	742671284	Radicals & Visionaries: Entrepreneurs Who Revolutionized the 20th Century	Books	5	3	3	N	N	BUSINESSES'S GREAT MAVERICKS	What do a bunch of computer geeks, housewives, washer woman, book retailer and others have in common? They and the rest of the group profiled in this anthology are the movers and shakers who changed how we do business and developed new industries that will shape the future.<br />        Radicals &amp; Visionairies gives you a brief look into the lives of seventy entreprenuers who changed the face of American business. Some of them have become house hold names (Walt Disney,Clarence Birdseye, Henry Ford) while others may not be as well known but their achievements live on. The individuals examined represent a diverse group of people coming from every social, economic and ethnic class. A few could be called egocentric, free wheeling and downright crazy. All of them were able to overcome obstacles in their lives and bring to America a new and diverse economy.<br />       Unlike other profiles which go from &quot;rags to riches&quot;, Thaddeus Wawro focuses on what innovation or new invention that the person developed which had a great impact on business. You see that these mavericks refused to follow the conventional business pack and moved out on their own.<br />       This book also deals with what makes success. Each person doesn't have a &quot;set formula&quot; which says this will lead you to success. All of those profiled came to success in a different way. Their stories are enjoyable, informative and inspirational. These radicals should jump start you in thinking about entering the entrepreneur path.	2000-12-08
US	50703543	R39115QNNDKNM0	0805051228	986308937	A Treasury of African-American Christmas Stories	Books	4	21	22	N	N	A BLACK PERSPECTIVE ON CHRISTMAS	Everyone is familiar with the traditional Christmas stories that will be shared during this holiday. Ah, but there are other Christmas stories which put a unique twist on Christmas from an African-American perspective. Collected for the first time in one source are Christmas stories told by African-Americans in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.<br />      The stories they share and their backgrounds are diverse. You have authors who were journalists, actors, educators, activists and radicals. Many of them were born into slavery and all of them suffered through the sickness of racism. Most of them were the leaders of their day such as Ida B. Wells and T. Thomas Fortune.<br />       How are these stories different from other Christmas tales? All of the stories were serialized in Black periodicals and newspapers.They address social and economic inequities (for all people) in their society . A persistent theme of the uplift of the race by those who have the resources is a continual thread throughout the book. You will also find some amusing tales that will give you a great belly laugh! Christmas is the background but our authors stress the need for social and economic uplift with compassion for the poor.<br />         The book gives us a brief biography of the writer, a synopsis of the story and reviews the historical context. I liked the brief introduction but felt some of the information took away from the stories themselves.  Such a treasury is a must to have under the Christmas tree, a gift for Kwanzaa and as a present throughout the year. Bettye Collier-Thomas has rescued a genre of fiction long forgotten in the Black literary tradition.	2000-12-07
US	50703543	RX57QJZPI1Y2X	0952488116	561744804	Unpublishable!: Rejected Writers from Jane Austen to Zane Grey	Books	5	0	0	N	N	REJECTION ISN'T THE LAST WORD	Inevitably writers will receive the stinging &quot;slap in the face&quot; of rejection. Its imprint will leave a touch of pain and a slight bruise but don't despair. Welcome to the distinquished club of Charlotte Bronte, Ernest Hemingway, Jules Verne, and other literary icons who were rejected. Elaine Borish presents us with the inspiring stories of English literatures' most famous authors who experienced rejection of their works which have become classics.<br />          Starting with Jane Austen to Zane Grey, you will be astonished at the reasons why editors, publishers and literary readers rejected the works of literatures' greatest writers. If these writers believed these &quot;nuts&quot; such works as Atlas Shrugged, The Wizard of Oz, Peter Rabbit, Uncle Tom's Cabin and other gems would remain in their imaginations never to see the light of day.<br />           What I found most interesting about the authors was their response to such harsh criticism and disparagement of their works. Find out about those who revised their work and made it into print. Share in the risk of those who decided to self-publish rather than allow the opinions of others to keep them down. Regale in joy with those who persisted in sending their work in after numerous rejections until it was published.<br />           If you are despondent about your work being rejected you will learn from these authors that rejection is never the final word. Ayan Rand says, &quot;Don't ever give up what you want in life. The struggle is worth it.&quot;	2000-12-06
US	50703543	R9DC5VPZIHQBH	1888363576	434975681	Grand Central Winter: Stories from the Street	Books	4	2	2	N	N	STRAIGHT FROM THE STREET	Lee Stringer doesn't coddle the reader with sentimental babble about what it is like to be homeless. Other books and authors have done that job. He tells his story without apology or sociological mumbo jumbo. He tells it staight.And sometimes when the truth hits you it is hard to take.<br />      Grand Central Winter is Stringer's story of his life and those of selected aquaintances on the streets of New York. A love affair with crack cocaine resulted in him becoming jobless and homeless thus joining a culture reviled and rendered invisible by the mainstream. From Lee's report we see those who are homeless from a wider perspective. Some are addicts to drugs and alcohol, others are former residents of mental institutions that have been closed and still others are trying to make it out of their situation but find themselves in a Catch 22 merry-go-round. The &quot;homeless&quot; are a diverse and wide group.<br />      You will find yourself laughing at some of the escapades that Lee encounters. You will get angry at the government bureaucracy and &quot;charity&quot; agencies that are more concerned in keeping the homeless invisible rather than attacking the problems of homelessness.<br />      Stringer doesn't make himself into a hero nor does he do the same with the people he meets. You see all of their faults but you begin to respect those who keep trying and revile the ones who attempt to exploit the homeless for political or social engineering reasons.<br />      By reading this book you will get a much clearer picture of the complexity of homelessness. Lee doesn't claim to have the answer nor does he make himself the poster boy for the homeless. He forces you to wake up in his sharp and unardoned prose. Look at these people that you pass every day. They are subjects of concern not objects to be trashed. Read this challenging book and awaken yourself to action.	2000-12-05
US	50703543	RQ9VHIAB1QG5S	068813968X	237000726	A Kwanzaa Fable	Books	4	1	1	N	N	COMING INTO MANHOOD	Jordan has suffered significant losses in his short thirteen years of life. His father's strength, grandmother's firmness and siblings' love has pulled him through. Now he is ready to face the greatest challenge of all; coming into manhood.<br />      Kwanzaa is a few months away and the support and wisdom of his father to lead him on his path is gone. His father died leaving him alone to figure out how to become a man. Kwanzaa is the setting and background for this tale of a young boy going through transitions. Taking on the responsibility in caring for his brother and sister, facing peer pressure at school and unsure of himself, Jordan faces the possibility of falling into a pit where he will never emerge. Will he be able to tackle the winds of change slapping him?<br />     The story shows us the love, pain and joy of community that bands together during Kwanzaa to help this young boy go through his rite of passage into manhood. You empathize with this teenager who has so much on his shoulders and feels there is no way out. Share this fable with your family and children as they learn the process of what it means to become an adult. As Kwanzaa rapidly comes upon us, its principles lay a foundation for what one can become. This is an excellent book for the holiday and throughout the year.	2000-12-05
US	50703543	R4HZJPQW1QWBA	1892514257	535739000	Essentials (Hill Street Classics.)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	GOING AGAINST THE GRAIN	Jean Toomer was one of the great literary figures from the Harlem Renaissance of the 1920's. His signature work, Cane, is known by most people who have studied African-American literatureo. Lesser known to readers is this brilliant work, Essentials, published in 1931.<br />     After his success with Cane, Toomer disappeared from the literary scene to pursue his own philosophical and psychological inquiries. He went against the grain of his time which believed African-Americans were not capable of exploring the world of metaphysics, let alone psychology. Toomer, way ahead of his time proved them wrong as he sought enlightenment in the teachings of George Gurdjieff. During this time (1924-1935), Toomer published this slim volume offering his attempts to grapple with the experience of what it means to be human.<br />       Essentials is a collection of Toomer's ponderings in his search for wholeness in a fragmented world. Drawing on modern psychology and eastern religious belief Toomer falls into the comapny of Emerson, Thoreau and Gibran as he deals with that which is transcendent. He revives the use of aphorisms to convey timeless truths in a world which is incable of moving beyond its limited definitions of life.<br />         Long ignored, this work gives us a glimpse of Toomer's metaphysical side. Through it we capture another alternative view of dealing with reality. It is essential reading for anyone interested in metaphysics, African-American literature, Toomer and as an example of a Black writer who refused to be limited by definitions of race for his life. Think on his words. Grow in the wisdom shared by a great literary giant of the 20th century.	2000-11-28
US	50703543	R3GM2XPLFANEB0	0135663725	383388452	Maybe You Should Write a Book	Books	4	10	10	N	N	WRITE YOUR BOOK	Stop saying &quot;Maybe someday I will write a book&quot;.  Get off your writer's block and start right now! Ralph Daigh gives all would be writers a kick in the pants to start  writing their books.  As the former vice-president of publishing of Fawcett Publications and editor of numerous magazines, Mr. Daigh knows what he is talking about and shares with his readers the inside story of the publishing world.<br />  He takes the mystery out of the publishing process and shows you the pertinent steps you need to take in order to get your work into the editors' hands. His sole motivation is to help as well as encourage you to get your book in print. Any excuse that you may have regarding your marital, social or educational status in writing doesn't hold water with this man. Included in this work are profiles of authors he knows that share with you their experiences. And guess what? Many of them didn't have the so-called &quot;credentials&quot; for writing which you think are a prerequisite for getting published.<br />  This is an excellent book of inspiration and advice in helping you to become an author. A word of caution is needed here. The book was published in 1977 prior to the internet publishing explosion. You won't find anything regarding writing over the net. Mr. Daigh discourages self-publishing which is his own personal bias. Quite a bit has changed in the publishing world with the advent of mergers, the internet and other areas which are not mentioned in the book. Again keep the information in the context of its time. Other than those items, Daigh has provided you with a strong incentive to publish. He is a motivator. There is no &quot;maybe&quot; in it (his title). You Should Write A Book.	2000-11-28
US	50703543	REYHN5VERASJL	0325001561	108741404	Lucky Break: How I Became A Writer	Books	5	1	2	N	N	TRANSFORMATION INTO A WRITER	Have you ever wondered how some authors made the commitment to become writers? Did they know at birth what their destiny would be or were they just plain lucky? Your curiosity will be satisfied as you read about the struggles and triumphs of  nineteen people who chose writing as their vocation.<br />     All of the authors profiled come from a variety a variety of backgrounds and experiences. Their way into writing did not follow a clear cut linear path. One poor soul could barely read, another failed english in school while still another had to wait through hippiedom, motherhood and being flat broke before she began to write. Their paths to the vocation were different but the passion and commitment to writing is the thread that ties them together. Being a writer moves beyond knowing the mechanics of technique or being talented or working  hard on endless manuscripts. A writer is in the process of creating his or her own identity as they struggle through the craft. <br />      Justin Chin, Jewelle Gomez, and Bill Berkson are just some of the few writers profiled in this inspirational and philosophical work. You will be touched by each unique voice as they share their craft and reasons for taking it up as their life's vocation. Howard Junker has provided you with an engaging and eye opening  book on the transformation of ordinary people into writers.	2000-11-26
US	50703543	RHEXJ9W0MUFVJ	0345423275	583655683	The African American Writer's Handbook: How to Get in Print and Stay in Print	Books	5	2	2	N	N	INVALUABLE TOOL	Aspiring African-American writers will find this book an invaluable resource in breaking into the world of publishing. Written with a no nonsense approach, Robert Fleming gives the reader fundamental information concerning the publishing business that every writer should know. He insists that you do  your research and homework about the publishing field and your market before an article or perspective novel is sent out. You must know the rules of the game before you can play.<br />     Yes, the book is for serious writers who want to get published. Follow his guidelines and you will make it happen. Included in the text are profiles regarding African-American writers in the past who made a comfortable living in their field. You receive from them their thoughts regarding the industry and just being a writer. Fleming also tells you what fields and genres Blacks have written in which they have been promoted by the mainstream publishing houses. All fictional genres and poetry are open wide for Black talent.<br />      This book is highly informative, entertaining and realistic in presenting to the reader the obstacles that they must overcome in order to become published. Its mood is very optimistic and there isn't any doubt that you can get in print if you do your homework, work hard, have a hard skin and keep on perservering. The only fault that I find with the book is its failure to deal with non-fiction opportunities and the absence of Black writers in the horror and action fiction genres. Other than those absent fields I would say this book is great. It is a must to have as a resource in your library.	2000-11-25
US	50703543	R33ZG6LOTXEXZM	0936885025	777661299	Brass Bands and Snake Oil Stands: Colorful Glimpses of America's Early Entertainment	Books	4	4	4	N	N	HIGHLY ENTERTAINING	Come with me on a historical tour of America's early entertainment &quot;industry&quot;. Dennis Goodwin transports you through time and gives you a glimpse of how America was made to laugh, enjoy higher and lower culture and informed by the great intellectual minds of its day. Picture yourself in 19th century America. Your potency is gone, you're feeling blue and viagra won't be on the market until the next century. Don't despair. A medicine show will appear out of nowhere in the middle of your nowhere town. The &quot;doctor&quot; will promise you a cure for whatever you ill and for extra will entertain you with a song, trick or whatever else he or she will have up their sleeve. The medicine might not work but hey, you were given a great show!<br />     The on the road Medicine show was just one of the early forms of entertainment available for rural America. They would promise you a cure but you would end up with laughs. Ah, but do you like action, thrills and high drama? Try Buffalo Bill's Wild West shows that will give you the peak thrill of danger. Imagine yourself a sharpshooter not missing a beat.<br />     Those and other shows are just a few examples of how America was entertained. Information is given as to how and why these shows formed and the reasons why they died out during a particular period. Learn about how Radio Barn Dances became the birthing ground for some of Country Music's classic stars. Oh, and for those of us in tune with &quot;high&quot; culture, Chautauqua by all means will suit your purpose.<br />       Goodwin gives us a gem of a book which allows us to stretch our imaginations and appreciate the forms of entertainment now dead. One interesting chapter even highlights the food that is associated with some of the entertainment industry. Enjoy this compact book which will stir your curiosity and encourage you to explore the entertainment field.	2000-11-24
US	50703543	R2CUW778VKYCPO	0670892688	466284454	Being Black: Zen and the Art of Living with Fearlessness and Grace	Books	5	35	35	N	N	THE DHARMA UNFOLDED	&quot;being black&quot; is not all that it seems. Angel Williams has eloquently expressed in her a book a statement of the revelance of Buddhism for African-Americans. She clearly lays out the foundational philosophical principles of Buddhism and shows how it can be adapted in African-American lives. All of us want to live in fearlessness and grace. Williams explains an alternative pathway for this to finally unfold.<br />      &quot;Being Black&quot; is a book that should have been written years ago. Buddhism in the United States has all to often been seen as the repository of white intellectuals. Very few African-Americans were in its fold and Buddhism wasn't considered as an other option for the spiritual growth of Blacks. Angel Williams has opened the door to the Dharma and the invitation is out to come and explore Buddhism. She is not preachy nor does she disrespect other religious traditions. You are provided another way of viewing and developing your spirituality.<br />     I thoroughly enjoyed her book and hope others will follow in examining, exploring and digesting its contents. Of special note are the varied resources and web sites that can be accessed to give you even more information. Her chapter on meditation and the varied postures is a gift well worth opening.	2000-11-22
US	50703543	R3DUQUWK6KIDFX	0936885084	212155434	Fate, Flukes & Fame in Rock & Roll Legends	Books	4	0	0	N	N	LEGENDS OF ROCK AND ROLL	How did Elvis get to be the King of Rock and Roll? What mysterious voice spoke to Ray Robinson ( known today as Ray Charles) and totally changed his style? These are just some of the questions that Rock and Roll fans ponder when trying to understand how these musical legends made it to the top.<br />     Dennis Goodwin tackes these questions and many more in his little gem about twelve performers of classical Rock and Roll. In each viginette we find that one chance meeting, an inner voice, chicken's eggs and four dollars made the difference in moving ther performers out of the realm of obscurity.<br />      Each story is brief and captures your attention as you find out what the catalyst was in launching the artists' careers. I highly recommend this text for younger rock and rool lovers who can garner an appreciation for how &quot;fate&quot; can play into the hands of one's success. &quot;Old&quot; people who grew up with rocl and roll will be delighted about these little known stories of their favorite artist.	2000-11-20
US	50703543	RETX4HY0VZGJ3	0525945245	976247392	The Debt : What America Owes to Blacks	Books	5	11	27	N	N	THE DEBT NEVER PAID AND PERHAPS NEVER WILL	For over 200 years America held a people in captivity and exploited their labor. Add in another 120 years of semi-slavery (sharecropping) and legalized segregation and you will once again find exploitation. America owes Blacks a debt which has never been repaid. Robinson unapologetically feels the payment is  past overdue and needs resolution.<br />     Whether you agree or disagree with the author, the fact of the matter is that he raises a question which deserves consideration. America's economy was built on the backs of exploited labor. The descendents of the labor have received nothing and suffer from the consequences of the past exploitive policies. Are they deserving of reparations as the Jews (for the death camps), Japanese (for the unjust internment in American &quot;concentration&quot; camps) and other groups who have suffered similar indignities and exploitation?<br />     The answer to his question raises the ire of anyone who reads the book but it forces all of us to come to grips with an era in history which we wish to ignore and bury. Such a pretense  will eventually explode unless something is done. Robinson gives his take on what America must do to correct its problem.<br />     Although Robinson lays out a decent argument, he treats African-Americans as a totally lost people who have no sense of connection with their African heritage. He goes to far in his assertion. He is highly naive in thinking America would even take up the question of reparations for slavery. After all America doesn't have the moral fortitude to do what is right and just unless there is a price tag on it.<br />     The Debt is a valuable book for three reasons. One, it raises a question never seriously considered by Blacks or whites in America. Two, it clearly examines the roots of the problem. Three, it opens the door for serious debate and discussion perhaps culminating in a viable solution.<br />     Robinson is not a Black &quot;racist&quot; or trouble maker. His voice needs to be heard on this question. Until African-Americans take it seriously then his words may be in vain however the fact of him raising them makes all the difference.	2000-11-20
US	50703543	R2R6URJIT8O49Q	1880559803	344080071	The Writer's Internet Handbook	Books	5	0	1	N	N	GET CONNECTED	With the coming of the internet, writing and publishing opportunities are out there for the asking. Everything that you need to know as a writer using the internet is contained in this wonderful book! Although most writers are familiar with the internet,trying to fully exploit its potential has become a mystery.<br />     Timothy Maloy takes the mystery out of this new medium which has hanged the face of publishing in the traditional print media. Learn how to effectively market and promote your articles and books over the net. Do you need to brush up on your writing skills? The net offers resources that you can use to enhance your writing. I found this book to be an invaluable tool in adapting my craft to the internet. The handbook provides you with an abundance of resources (e-mail addresses for selected publications, Listservs for writers,etc.) that I have tapped into and which have enhanced my marketability. If you are serious about writing over the internet then this book is a must have resource. I've used it. It works, now try your hand at exploring your writing potential on the internet.	2000-11-19
US	50703543	R381MYMPNNFYFC	158322002X	178561386	Like Shaking Hands with God: A Conversation about Writing	Books	3	12	12	N	N	A WRITERS' CONVERSATION	Anything by Kurt Vonnegut is good! Well almost anything. I was attracted to this gem featuring two authors of different generations conversing about the meaning of writing in their lives. I expected an enlightening tome that would set my mind to thinking and provide me with new insight.<br />     Neither happened. Vonnegut and Stringer are good writers but these interviews just didn't come off well in print. A question is raised as to what the two writers had in common. Stringer gave some good points but Vonnegut rambled on into the wild blue yonder. Of the two, Stringer appeared to stay focused on the questions and provided the reader with insight as to how writing impacted on his life and freed him from his own internal demons.<br />     As a collector's item in your Vonnegut library, yes, do indeed purchase it. If you want something more in depth with Vonnegut and Stringer read their works. This text just doesn't get to the heart of their writing world.	2000-11-16
US	50703543	R3RPQY5Z53TF45	0938566601	379500839	The Drowned River	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A RELOOK AT THE ORDINARY	I must confess that I am not a poetry person and in all honesty had not heard of the author. The enthusiasm of one of his fans lead me to search out books by him. The Drowned River was the book I found and never again will I neglect poetry.<br />      You (as well as I) will be impressed with how the author takes ordinary things we see and experience in life and turns them into profound reflections. The ordinary is transformed into the extra-ordinary. His use of words calls us to attention of the familiar and demands that we move beyond the surface of what we see.<br />     Shoveling snow, seedy motels, swingsets, donuts and shoveling snow are the varied themes covered in this volume. What in the world do these common place things have in common? Certainly they can't hold any meaning. Think so? Thomas Lux will put you to the challenge. He is serious, playful, introspective and playful in poking fun at human foilbles. Come along the poetic journey with him in the drowned river.	2000-11-15
US	50703543	R25EF3NXV9Y35	0817310266	274507282	From Southern Wrongs to Civil Rights: The Memoir of a White Civil Rights Activist	Books	5	8	9	N	N	THE MAKING OF AN ACTIVIST	Sara Perry was raised as the typical southern white lady. She was to assume the role of dutiful wife, devoted mother and hostess for her husband's social set. As Sara Mitchell she carried out her role of the southern house-wife which included a lovely home, Negro maid and status in the upper class community of Buckhead in Atlanta, GA.<br />     All was going well for this southern white matron but the seeds of discontent stirred in her life. She wanted more out of life than a role. Slowly but surely a change was to occur which would change her life and the fabric of the world in which she grew up.<br />      Contained in these pages in the memoir of a woman who had it all but made the step to get involved in the battle for civil rights regardless of the cost. Her battle ground was the Atlanta school board, her church, family and marriage. Caught up in the fervor of the Civil rights movement we see how a woman of privilege made the steps of becoming an activist.<br />      Parsons' story is an eye-opener of the role southern white women played in the movement. Her being a part of the affluent class makes her story all the more remarkable due to the pressures she would endure. Her tale is one in which everyone should read to get an understanding of the thoughts and feelings of a woman who put her status at risk.<br />       What I find most interesting concerning her tenure on the Atlanta school board are the issues she addresses concerning education in addition to the integration question. The issues she addressed in the 1960s are the same ones with us in the year 2000. You will get an idea about how &quot;concerned&quot; the majority of the board was with education.<br />        This dynamic woman broke the rules of convention of her day. She of course is not a saint but an example to follow in having the courage and fortitude to step out for what is right. I highly recommend this as a primary text for those studying education, civil rights, and female empowerment.	2000-11-15
US	50703543	RZXJXKKXU0NGA	0517051575	185371642	Great Pies You Can Bake: 365 Fabulous Pie Recipes for Every Day of the Year	Books	5	3	3	N	N	PIE  EXTRAVAGANZA	Are you a pie lover? Do you enjoy the wonderful taste of great pies? If you said yes to either question this book is definitely for you. Contained in its pages are recipes for pies covering each day of the year. Starting from the classic apple pie to Zucchini Cheese quiche, you will delight in the mainstay of pies as well as the exotic.<br />     Many of you love pies but feel intimidated by recipes or feel you can't bake. Not a problem! The author's recipes are simple and easy to follow. If you can boil water then you can bake a pie. And let's face it folk, some of these delights can't be purchased in a store and your corner bakery lacks the imagination for such creative treats.<br />     I enjoyed working with this book. As one who is not a baker I found the directions easy and was very pleased with the results. The book also provides you with a chapter on making crusts and gives alternative recipes for some of your favorite pies. By all means, indulge yourself and purchase this wonderful book and enjoy the fruits of your baking labors.	2000-11-15
US	50703543	RRJZWVVY7UKS8	0770104517	720741297	Bones (Nameless Detective Mystery)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	BARE BONES	&quot; Nameless&quot; is at the top of his game when solving murder mysteries. Recent murders are difficult but not unsolvable. This time Nameless is called upon to solve a murder that happened four decades ago. Called to do the impossible, he takes the case merely because the victim was a pulp writer. Nameless of course is is a pulp fan.     Pronzini gives us a fair story as we follow Nameless in his quest of trying to quell the questions of a neurotic son determined to find out how his writer-father really died. Was it a suicide or murder? Come with Nameless as he attempts to uncover this mystery but in the meantime he must deal with his partner's brainless girlfriend and her impact on his beloved Kerry. This is not one of Prozini's best in the Nameless series but it will hold your attention.	2000-11-13
US	50703543	R1J67Z4TBTEC6K	0906097495	544051246	I Write What I Like: A Selection of His Writings	Books	5	8	11	N	N	OUT SPOKEN MARTYRE	Steve Biko will always be remembered as one of the most outspoken leaders in South Africa's liberation movement. Martyred at an early age, Biko's refusal to keep silent about apartheid was a thorn in the side of an oppressive and immoral regime.      We are privileged to have in our hands a rare collection of Biko's writings spanning from the years 1970 to 1979. They cover a wide variety of topics but the core of each one expresses the ardent desire to throw off the yoke of oppression in its varied forms. Biko gives us a detailed analysis of racism, its impact on Blacks and whites and its destruction of the moral fabric of the society in which it resides.<br />      He calls for a Black consciousness where Blacks respect one another and break off the yoke of inferiority. Since his death, the apartheid regime is gone but his words are just as relevent today as they were during his time. Ghosts of the past still haunt South Africa but the spirit of Biko's writings and liefe invoke a sense of hope and pride. Savor this young man's work and allow yourself to be guided by his spirit. This text outlines the philosophical, political and spiritual underpinnings of Steve Biko.	2000-11-13
US	50703543	R3L09ZIB8EGFC2	0380794020	44498260	HealthQuest Staying Strong: Staying Strong: Reclaiming The Wisdom Of African-American Healing (Healthquest : Total Wellness for Body, Mind & Spirit)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	HEALING LEGACY	A number of books have focused on health care for African-Americans. Most of them give advice on what should be done, how it is to be done and what to avoid. Staying Strong moves away from such a formula. It reclaims the ancient wisdom of African-American healing and points one to alternative methods of health care for African-Americans.<br />     In a time where health care costs are sky rocketing, HMO's are calling the shots and the absence of a national health care insurance program for all, it is imperative for African Americans to be empowered in taking care of their own health.<br />     Staying Strongs takes a wholistic approach concerning health care for African Americans. It takes into consideration the spiritual, mental, and physical dimensions that work together in assuring that one is in good health. One is introduced to the conventional and non-coventional methods used to bring balance to one's life. Each alternative healthcare system is explained and the pros and cons are laid out for the individual to make a decision as to what is right for them. This is an excellent guide for those who want to take charge of their health and are looking for alternative methods.	2000-11-13
US	50703543	R21LRWQ4VM32NH	0312253974	319074580	Lazarus and the Hurricane: The Freeing of Rubin "Hurricane" Carter	Books	4	7	8	N	N	CALM AFTER THE STORM	Rubin Carter's unjust incarceration should shatter all illusions that in the United States of America anyone can get a fair and just trial. Carter's saga certainly proved that justice isn't blind. Carter's case is an in-your-face look at what is deeply wrong with our criminal justice system. Yet it is more than that. There is another side to the story.<br />     Lesra, a young black teenager, purchases Carter's biography of what happened. Inspired by this giant, Lesra along with his Canadian guardians take on the quest of proving Carter's innocence. Their love, dedication and commitment prove that even in the worst of times there is hope. This book is the story of that hope unfolding.<br />     Upon reading the book, three stories unfold; Lesra's, Rubin Carter's and the Canadians. Of course Carter's story predominates throughout the book while Lesra and the Canadians provide a nice back drop. The fact of the &quot;Canadians&quot; are not mentioned by name gives you a feeling of them being mere objects in the work of freeing Carter. Even Lesra doesn't receive the full attention that he deserves in this intertwining story.<br />     Even Carter becomes an enigma. We really don't get to know the man but we are bombarded with information concerning his case. Perhaps other texts will make up for the above defientcies. I feel the most important part was Carter's refusal to allow the prison and criminal justice system to dehumanize them. If anything we learn how dehumanizing this system is in our own country. The greater lesson in the book is no matter how bad things can get there are decent people out there to help. Once you open yourself up to them changes can occur.	2000-11-02
US	50703543	R3FWF69AGF1IT2	0664222463	770503890	My Parents, My Children: Spiritual Help for Caregivers	Books	5	4	4	N	N	SPIRITUAL AIDE	This book was a long time coming in devoting itself to the spiritual, emotional and practical needs of care givers.Care giving can be an exhausting enterprise which robs a person of their spiritual, physical and emotional life. Well meaning people give their sympathy to the one who is sick but all to often the one giving the care is ignored or taken for granted.<br />     Cecil Murphey, an ordained minister and one who also was a care giver gives a wake up call to caregivers and the church as he chronicles the issues and challenges one must face when they chose to care. We are taken through the realm of practical matters concerning care giving, problems that occur in an intergenerational household, being able to share your feelings and finally dealing with the issue of death.<br />     Simplistic answers are not given in this text. Those who chose to care struggle and with that struggle with God's help they are able to make it through the process. Share with the caretakers who reveal their innermost thoughts and reveal their faith in struggling with a difficult situation in caring for a family member. Cecil Murphey presents us with concrete stories of those who are going through the situation. Following the story is a scripture text that pertains to the situation and is followed by a brief prayer.<br />       I found this book strengthening for me in my faith as a care taker and saw myself in many of the people. My Parents, My Children will speak to your heart as it did mine. I highly recommend this text for churches with ministries to the shut-in and sick and support groups in which you have caretakers both professional as well as family members. For the first time a book is out to give caretakers spiritual first aide. By all means use it.	2000-10-31
US	50703543	R2HTK4ZJ1BUOJG	1885941382	207561668	McCone & Friends	Books	4	7	7	N	N	FRIENDS, FAMILY AND LOVERS	Sharon McCone is probably the best loved detective in the mystery genre. Readers have seen her career evolve from All Soul's Cooperative to her becoming an independent investigator with her own staff and career. She has got it all together but she didn't get there on her own.<br />     In this collection of short stories we see another side of Sharon through her office manager, lover, hacker nephew and co-investigator. They share with us their own thoughts about working with Sharon. They also move beyond talking about &quot;the boss&quot; and reveal something about themselves and how they go about solving a mystery with or without &quot;the boss&quot;. Each one has their own distinctive voice that gives you a different perspective on how the team operates.<br />     Of course Sharon has her own story to tell. Sometimes she doesn't appreciate the &quot;help&quot; from an amateur sleuth such as her big brother but who can choose your relatives especially when they are &quot;annoying&quot; you about a case. You will be delighted in listening to these stories and sharing in the escapades of Sharon's loving team. A limited collection of short stories such  as this is a great addition to your mystery library.	2000-10-18
US	50703543	R1X474I9KTXYN7	0786216573	809931985	Duo (Five Star First Edition Mystery Series)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	MYSTERY TEAM	Two of mystery fans most beloved authors, Marcia Muller and Bill Pronzini, have gathered a collection of their short stories for our reading pleasure. In case you don't know, the above couple are happily married and as a team worked together on some of the stories.<br />      Duo is divided into three sections. Two sections contain the individual works of each author while the remaining section is a collaboration of the two. You will find some of their favorite detectives in their stories ( Sharon McCone and Nameless) but for the most part the stories are very diverse and supply us with memorable moments.<br />     What is the penalty for murdering a cactus? Savor Muller's &quot;Sweet Cactus Wine&quot; and stone yourself to death. Is your marriage on the rocks? Marcia and Bill will delight you with a couples' foibles in &quot;The Dying Time&quot;. The most interesting of the stories is by far &quot;Dust to Dust&quot; by Muller which borders on the horror genre. By and large this is a great collection because you get so involved with the characters to the point of wanting the story to continue. Alas, all good short stories must come to an end.<br />     Even though this is a collaboration of partners, I must admit that Muller's work is the strongest of the two. Pronzini is hard hitting with his traditional male detective genre and fares very well but Marcia gives the spark. For fans of both authors this is a must have for your collection.	2000-10-18
US	50703543	RABANOGOPT74S	0791049507	555213785	Forensic Science: Evidence, Clues, and Investigation (Crime, Justice and Punishment)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	TOOLS OF THE TRADE	Crime is an ever present problem in our society. We read it in the newspapers, hear it over the radio and see it on the television. Have you ever wondered how a crime is solved? The yellow police tape and tv programs are cool but how is a crime solved besides the way we see it in the news?<br />     Our answer has come in this text which unvails beore us the tools of the trade in unraveling the physical mystery of crime. Forensic Science in its clear and concise prose takes us step by step through the physical processes use to solve crime scenes.<br />     I was fascinated by the technology and various disciplines used in obtaining and interpreting the physical evidence. Forensic science covers a multiplicity of discipline such as biology, medicine, etc. and applies them to the legal field. Forensic evidence can't be changed and in most cases can be the final nail in bringing a criminal to justice.<br />     If you share a curiosity regarding how crimes are solved in a detailed manner, this book is the one for you. It gives a broad general view of the discipline and makes us appreciative of the wide ranging team of law enforcement professionals who work in concert to solve baffling crimes through the use of science.	2000-10-12
US	50703543	R2A2F3KULZBCWW	0892966890	72468624	Listen to the Silence (Sharon McCone Mysteries)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	LIES, LIES, ALL LIES	Sharon McCone has battled lies throughout her career as a private investigator. Her success in overcoming them has made her the most sought after sleuth in California. Now Sharon is challenged to unravel another lie for a client, herself.<br />     A box of papers left after her father's death reveals her adopted status by the McCones. How this happened and the question of who she is propels Sharon on a search for her roots and identity. Come with her as he confronts relatives who refuse to supply her with any information regarding her birth parents. Feel her frustration as she must listen carefully to what is unsaid as well as to what is said. Most of all share her disappointment in the people whom she loved who failed to disclose the truth to her. Lying was much easier.<br />     Listen to the Silence is a great and enjoyable novel as it explores the meaning of family and the unraveling of secrets long hid from our favorite female investigator. Join with her in this painful yet liberating quest into her past. You will love the various twists, turns and detours that Sharon must undergo before truth shines through. You will not be disappointed in another great Mccone Mystery Series.	2000-10-12
US	50703543	R3L5AB2IM33KJK	0440221498	30463840	Hardcase	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A NEW LIFE	Congratulations! Nameless has tied the knot and is on the way of beginning a new chapter in his life. Forget about the fact that he was sweating like a pig before &quot;choking&quot; out his &quot; I do.&quot; And let's not mention his less than spectacular performance during his wedding night. Nameless is just his plain old self and has a case to work on before he goes on his real honeymoon.<br />     His case is easy, simple and won't take long. Uh, oh. Forget about long. A case of him trying to find the birth parents of an adopted woman becomes more complex than you would think. No one wants to talk about it and Nameless finds himself up a wall that will lead to more trouble and impact on this newlywed's bride.<br />     Pronzini spins a tale in which some things are best left alone. Nameless is also challenged to come into the 20th century with computers and an assistant who can stand toe to toe with our aging investigator. This was a delightful story in seeing a man set in his ways coming to terms with the needed changes in his life. It is also a story that makes you wonder if there are some information in one's life that should be kept secret. Find out as you read this enjoyable Nameless thriller.	2000-10-12
US	50703543	R3D8MGY7ABNFOC	1583340742	40771203	When Life Throws You a Curveball.Hit It: Simple Wisdom for Life's Ups and Downs	Books	4	3	3	N	N	KNOWING HOW TO GET UP	There are times when we need to stop groveling in our self pity and garner  the courage to get up. Life is an ever changing situation filled with the  good and the bad. How you mentally and spiritually deal with the curve  balls will determine your happiness.<br />     Criswell Freeman gives a no  nonsense advice in such a small little book. Drawing on his personal  experiences with failure and his profession as a clinical psychologist, we  are given practical strategies on how to cope with lifes's hurts. His  solutions are simple and familiar. Much of what he has said is gleaned from  the wisdom of others who went through the storms of life and through many  of the psychological schools of thought.<br />     He doesn't pull any punches  in challenging us to move on with our lives and live it to its fullest.  Read the book. Get yourself inspired. Put your life into action and see  what a great difference you will make.	2000-09-26
US	50703543	R3KTZ231SH4B7E	1570752869	543652382	Introducing Black Theology of Liberation	Books	4	7	9	N	N	A HISTORICAL SURVEY	Black Theology has become well known in the nation's major seminairies. James Cone, Deotis Roberts and other Black theologians' names are well regarded in academic circles. Finding a book which encompasses the whole of Black Theology has been a vacuum which is now filled through the work of Dwight Hopkins.<br />     For the first time readers have access to a text which gives a historical survey of the development and encounters of Black Theology with other theologies. Introducing Black Theology of Liberation is long overdue in the academy. Dr. Hopkins traces Black Theology from its roots in Africa and its development in the context of the United States of America Diaspara. We are shown how the first generation of Black theologians dealt with the political and racial turmoil in the 1960's and 70's. From that experience came their articulation of what it means to be Black and Christian.<br />     Hopkins' work is inclusive in that it includes the voices of Womanist theologians who have critiqued their brother colleagues about how sexism impacted on Black women as well as race. Black male theologians were made to confront their own notions of sexism. In addition Black theology is not in conversation with just itself. Its encounter with other Third World Theologies has forced it to look at other oppressions that  keep  humanity from achieving fullness in Christ.  There isn't any doubt that this will become the standard text in the teaching of Black Theology in the classrooms.	2000-09-25
US	50703543	R1EMI8HGRDMDFP	0863161286	592295866	Hemingway for Beginners (A Writers & Readers documentary comic book)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	AMERICAN LITERARY ICON	Most people know the name Ernest Hemingway. His name and books are perhaps present on every high english departments' reading lists. Scholars and professors have studied his work and have produced countless books and critiques on him. On the 100th anniversary of his birth, bookstores throughout the country promoted his works. Yes, we know the name of Ernest Hemingway, but do we know the man and writer called Hemingway?<br />     Writers and Readers Publishing gives us a chance to become aquainted with this great author. Hemingway for Beginners, is exactly what it is entiled. It is a brief biographical tome covering the high points in the life of Ernest Hemingway. You learn the standard particulars of any life ( date of birth, parents, siblings, etc.) but this particular summary attempts to present him in an even manner. It shows his foibles as well as his greatness. We see a self-centered fop in one picture, in another a hopeless alcoholic and yet in another a man full of courage and deep sensitivity. Hemingway was all of these things which culminated in his literary works and made him the father of modern fiction.<br />     If you are familiar with his works, this book will give you the background which covered his novels. For those who don't know or haven't had an interest in the man, Hemingway for Beginners, is an excellent introductory text.	2000-09-21
US	50703543	R2BWK8R3LUIUD0	0684836572	93105977	The Assassination of the Black Male Image	Books	4	11	14	N	N	ASSAULT ON BLACK MALES	African-American men have been the targets of character assassination throughout their lives is the main premise of Dr. Hutchinson's work. He  gives the reader a wide sweeping historical overview of how the media,  sociologists and sadly enough Black female writers have been part of the  conspiracy to  demean the Black man's image.<br />     The vast majority of  what is presented is not anything new. African-Americans are not in control  of the media. Thus whatever is projected about them comes from the racist  and biased views of those who control the images. Most Blacks should know  that they are considered sex-crazed, lazy, shiftless, etc. by the white  power structure.  Dr. Hutchinson's analysis of the structures' control  tells us that things have not really changed only the form in which it has  been presented. <br />     I find the major flaw in this work is that it  doesn't go into a more detailed analysis in providing the reader with data  in support of his assertions. Our author spends quite a bit of time in  belittling Black female authors whom he feels have bashed Black men in  their works. The fact that they were supported by the media is the credence  that he gives in his criticism. I found his critique of them very shallow  as well as that of John Singleton. He could have made more of a case if he  gave examples and cited the problems that their work caused for Black men  rather than giving blanket generalizations.<br />     Although the book is  very revealing it doesn't come up with any suggestive ways in combatting  this assault on Black males. Should the community rise up in arms against  anyone who makes any criticism of Black males (right or wrong)? Will  boycotting the media be productive? Can we not take charge of our own image  regardless of what white america thinks? All of these questions and many  more need to be considered. Most of all what image do African-Americans  want to present for its males. If it is merely someone who holds the values  of the oppressor but has a Black face then the group is in far more trouble  morally than it thinks. This is a good book for further reflection and  study over developing a Black male image that is positive for the community  regardless of the external stereotypes projected on African-American men.	2000-09-20
US	50703543	RK4V1IL0FZMOJ	0966157591	731295033	Worldwords: Global Reflections to Awaken the Spirit	Books	5	2	2	N	N	AWAKENING THE SPIRIT	Words are those independent sounds expressing meaning. Worldwide, humanity has developed its own unique set of words to convey the deepest meaning  expressed in their souls as well as the external world. Language is the  vehicle or system by which humanity communicates with one another through  words. Worldwords are collections of the human family's words that awaken  us to consciousness and responsibility for ourselves and our neighbors.<br />      Language like anything else goes through periods of becoming extinct  like many of the world's animal species and plants. Loss of these words  means loss of meaning that can no longer be easily recovered. In  appreciation for the beauty and meaning of words' expressions, Worldwords  was formed as a celebration of humanity's vehicle to strengthen their  lives.<br />     Each day of the month has a word from a different culture. A  pronunciation  guide is given, its origins and a brief meaning followed by  a commentary regarding the use of the word for our lives. At the very end  is a brief inspirational sentence. Included is a list of the words and a  lovely bibliography. Each word calls us to reflect upon it. Many express  concepts that are not easy to translate in English but carry profound  meanings for our lives. Through meditating on these diverse words, you will  become inspired and energized.	2000-09-20
US	50703543	RPMS40FNXL5VR	1901205002	332647448	Ifor on Ifor: NATO Peacekeepers in Bosnia-Herzegovina	Books	5	4	4	N	N	SOLDIERS SPEAK	Bosnia has pretty much faded into the background of American concern. When the American Division of the NATO Implementation Force (IFOR) rolled in on  December 1995, the spotlight was on Bosnia and Americans became aware of  the military role that their forces would play in the Balkans. Out of the  tragedy and confusion of war came a book entitled &quot;Cry Bosnia&quot; by  Paul Harris which chronicled the war in Bosnia itself through words and  pictures.<br />     Inspired by the success of Cry Bosnia, Ruppert Murray  decided to write a similar book which would focus on the peacekeepers  themselves rather than the political elements of Bosnia. His idea was  merely to write minimal text with pictures but as he began to interview the  soldiers and have them share their opinions, backgrounds and experiences  the book began to take a life of its own. IFOR on IFOR is the soldiers'  stories of their perceptions of why and how they came to Bosnia and what  they feel their presence will accomplish.<br />      The book is divided into  three sectors representing the United States of America Division, the  British Division and the French Division. He interviews the men and women  of the armed forces who candidly share their views with him. Listen to  these young warriors as they share their apathy, hope, and naivite in  sharing their views of their deployment. The voices are diverse within each  division and you can see the differences of opinions that run from nation  to nation. The insights you get are extraordinary.<br />     On a personal  note, I was deployed to Bosnia and stayed there for a year. Everything that  you have read, heard and seen in these interviews are what I experienced  with this group of international soldiers. I highly recommend this book to  you in getting the story of the soldier. Six copies returned home with me  and many more were purchased for friends and relatives. This is an  excellent chronicle in pictures and words.	2000-09-19
US	50703543	RWKMDRL76PSEC	1577360214	437688302	T.u.l.i.p.: The Five Disputed Points of Calvinism	Books	4	12	12	N	N	A TULIP BY ANOTHER NAME	Most people would associate a tulip as being a bulb that grows erect with showy cup-shaped flowers. John Calvin's tulip is certainly not the flower  just described but an acronym describing five disputed points of his  doctrine. TOTAL depravity, UNCONDITIONAL election, LIMITED atonement,  IRRESISTIBLE  grace and PERSEVERANCE of the saints are the cornerstone  foundations upon which those of the Reformed protestant faith stand. It is  also  the least desirable topic to preach let alone understand in its  minute details. Who wants to bore their congregation into sleep by  preaching Calvinist doctrine?<br />     Ben Rose remedies the situation by  present us with a book on how to preach and study Calvin's five points. He  takes each point and gives a definition of the doctrine, supplies the  biblical support for it , explains the doctrine's function in our lives and  at the end leaves us questions for reflection, discussion and appreciation  for the particular point studied.<br />     As one who is not of the Reformed  tradition, I thoroughly enjoyed the book's simplicity, clarity on each  point and its brevity. I appreciated Rose's daring attempt to take a  complex doctrine and make it accessible and understandable to the  congregants. He also emphasizes the need for doctrinal preaching and how it  can be done without confusing the laity. This book is great for doctrinal  studies, a resource for preaching and a refresher on Calvin's disputed  points.	2000-09-19
US	50703543	R3VYO3E1RB9E9J	0670891657	489212182	Blanche Passes Go	Books	5	16	19	N	N	BLANCHE GETS REVENGE	[In this book, r]ape, spouse abuse and jealousy are tools used by men to intimidate women.  You will find all of these things in Farleigh, NC which is a place quite good at keeping secrets. With the kids hauled off to jobs in the summer, Blanche decides to spend time helping Ardell, her best friend, in their catering business. On the way down home, she meets a train conductor whose flirtatious remarks opens the possibility for a full fledged romance.<br /> All appears to go well with Blanche as she settles in and helps on their first catering job. Things begin to fall apart as she sees her rapist at the gathering and is forced to confront her fears about the incident which happened eight years ago. Blanche knows she must exorcise the rape and the rapist from her mind if she is ever to truly live free.<br /> A phone call from Archibald Carter, hiring her to investigate his cousin's suspected gold digging fiance enables Blanche to launch her own side investigation.  The fiance is the sister of her rapist. An unexplained murder of a young local white woman has suspected connections with the rapist. Blanche is on the case.<br /> Barbara Neely has done it again in presenting us with a story covering the full gamut of issues regarding women. We find out why Miz Cora, Blanche's mother, has been closed mouthed about her husband all these years. We see how jealousy has caused spouse abuse perpetrated both by Black and White men. We find our hearts open to Blanche as she deals with her memories of the rape, her reluctance to fully trust Thelvin (her new love interest)and the need to be more forgiving. All of the elements of emotional turmoil are there to make this into a wonderful mystery. The question comes, will Blanche get her revenge? Read and see.	2000-09-16
US	50703543	R2MHUPNQT9INTW	1559342307	829879294	Looking at Philosophy: The Unbearable Heaviness of Philosophy Made Lighter	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A HEAVY LOAD MADE LIGHTER	Philosophy like its sister disciplines of science and mathematics is not  considered a popular subject. Rarely will you see philosophy sections in a  book store sold out. Very seldom will a philosophy book make the New York  Times Best Seller list. Philosophy is the bedrock of our civilization but  is considered boring. What can be done to spark the public's interest in  such a fascinating subject?<br />     Donald Palmer resolves this question by  writing a book which lightens the load of understanding western  philosophical thought from Thales to Paul Sartre. Philosophy, was thought  to be the domain of academicians, nerds, eccentrics and geeks has been  unshackled from its chains. Palmer provides us with a text that is  understandable, reader friendly, enjoyable and takes the subject seriously  but not &quot;gravely&quot;. His work is not an insult to the intelligence  of those who take the subject seriously nor is it a watering down of the  major fields of philosophical thought.<br />     I enjoyed reading this text  which serves as a refresher course in western philosphy. Its illustrations  and graphs are excellent tools in explaining the subject to the  uninitiated. Reading about philosophy with such a format elicits pure joy.  Watch out for the type face which is not the 12 point Times Roman. Oh, the  author takes up the question of the absence of women in the tomes of  philosophy. His thesis in dealing with this question is quite interesting.  Enjoy this fresh approach in appreciating western philosophy.	2000-09-15
US	50703543	R10MONR2LDXNHX	0380796570	231169145	Say Jesus and Come to Me	Books	3	16	20	N	N	ANOTHER DISAPPOINTMENT	Grab your tamborine, put on your shouting shoes and get ready to be  revived by Evangelist Myrtle Black. Majestic as an African Queen, eloquent  in her sermons and fiercely proud, our good sister is the high priestess of  the Spirit as well as an &quot;in the closet&quot; lesbian. Enraged over  the shooting of two young prostitutes in Nashville, our minister embarks on  a quest to form a coalition of all women to fight the sexist and racist  atmosphere of the city's fathers (and some mothers). While doing this a  soul stirring singer, whose self-esteem is at rock bottom meets this woman  of the cloth. The relationship that develops between them will never be the  same.<br />     There you have it, all the elements of a good story. Issues of  Black men's sexism, white women's racism, Black females reluctance to join  a &quot;women's movement&quot; and the crass homophobia of the Black church  are just waiting to be explored. Yet none of these issues come together in  a story which has so much potential but is technically flawed. How is  this?<br />     1. Shockley gives a detailed explanation of the issues as if  the reader doesn't or can't understand what is going on.<br />     2. All of  the characters are overly stereotyped to the point of being  unbelievable.<br />     3.  She has very poor transitions. A character could  be a gay hater in one paragraph and on the next page a converted person  with no explanation of why.<br />     4. Shockley deals with so many issues  that the main plot gets lost and the story ends abruptly.<br />       Shockley  could have done much better. This story deserves a much better telling. I  truly wanted to give this story at least a 4 star but after reading it I  couldn't justify giving it those stars. As a collectors item of Black  lesbian fiction this book will be an asset in your library but nothing  more.	2000-09-10
US	50703543	R3O7ICYNZM7BAO	0863161928	57351633	Kierkegaard for Beginners (Writers and Readers Documentary Comic Book)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	PALPABLE KIERKEGAARD	One day I was inspired to read Either/Or by this great philosopher.  Suddenly painful memories rose to the surface as I remembered the struggle  with this author's thoughts in my undergraduate and graduate classes in  philosophy. Kierkegaard is not fun reading on any level. So what do you do  when you want to revisit or re-read a major philosophical work but don't  want to go through the pain?<br />     &quot;Kierkegaard For Beginners&quot;  was my answer. Using a cartoon format laced with humor this book takes the  most complex philosopher and makes his life and works accessible to the  general reader. One must remember that this is not an introductory text  book on Kierkegaard's philosophy nor does it go into a deep analysis of his  work. It covers the broad spectrum of his works without &quot;dummying  down&quot; the thinker's ideas. Of course this isn't a substitute for  reading the original works but it certainly puts you in touch with the  major ideas of Kierkegaard that will motivate you to learn more about him.  I highly recommend this book for high school students ( Do they take  philosophy in high school any more?) and those in undergraduate classes of  philosophy on the introductory level. It is a great supplementary work in  making a great man's ideas accessible to students. And besides, it is fun  and makes Kierkegaard a pleasure to study.	2000-09-04
US	50703543	R21IO0FFWP1HBE	0786000724	175552843	Bands of Gold (Arabesque)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	LIFE'S TRUE PRIORITIES	Christina Marshall has got it together! Young, ambitious and Black this  powerhouse of a woman intends to be a mover and shaker in her career field.  Her success in turning around the mismanaged company of Orion resulted in  her promotion to steer the helm of OPTIMA the premier subsidary of  Communications Limited. She has it all but emotionally she finds herself  empty. She yearns for more than what a career, house and new locale in  Atlanta can offer.<br />     Jackson Duncan is another up and coming young  Black man who is destined to be a star at Optima. Attractive, sensual and  cropped short wavy hair, the women at Optima can not help but to notice  him. In fact, his new boss Christina eyes him now and again. When the two  meet sparks begin to fly, and egoes begin to clash. Are these two ambitious  colleagues able to discover life's true priorities and love? Come read and  see how this relationship develops.<br />     Angela Benson presents us with a  sensitive and sensual romance of two young Black professions who have to  cope with office politics, resentments, well kept secrets and pressures on  the job. As they try to develop a personal relationship beyond the  materialism that their jobs offer they find that they must let go things  from their past. You will see their joys, fears and secrets revealed as  they open themselves up to the possibility of finding true love. Enjoy this  wonderfully crafted African-American romance.	2000-09-04
US	50703543	R3LMI0ZLMTUZ7Q	0446672211	17564972	Where the Heart Is	Books	5	0	1	N	N	LOVE CONQUERS ALL THINGS	A superficial ready of this story  would reveal a barefoot, pregnant and  naive teenager trying to get her act together after being dumped by her  boyfriend at Wal-Mart. As far as the world is concerned Novelee Nation is  just another statistic of an unwed teenage mother. She deserves what she  got (pregnant) due to her stupidity. She made her bed so let her wallow in  it. Such an assessment is too simplistic and far off base.<br />      &quot;Where The Heart Is&quot; is not just about a girl who gets  &quot;knocked up&quot; and abandoned. Billie Letts does a masterful job in  sharing with us the story of the mistakes, miscues and growth of a young  naive seventeen year old who moves into maturity. Her condition is a  scandel to some but she finds help, affirmation and security from people on  the margins of society in the small town which becomes a haven.<br />     Meet  Sister Husband, a whacko alcholic who takes Novelee in and shows her what  &quot;home&quot; really means. Moses Whitecotten, an old Black man, awakens  and refines her love for taking pictures and viewing the world in a new  way. Shy Fortney Hull, an eccentric &quot;librarian&quot; opens up to her  the vast knowledge contained in books. Novelee learns her lessons well as  she navigates through the school of hard knocks.<br />     Throughout the book  several issues are raised which young females struggle with in their lives.  Low self-esteem, abuse, the inability to say no, obesity and lying are just  a few of the many issues raised in the novel in addition to teenage  preganancy. You will be amused by the antics of the characters and sickened  by the cruelty of some of them. You will feel anger at the irresponsibility  and arrogance of the men. This novel reflects the best and worst of  ourselves as we deal in relationships. Beautifully written, funny and  ironic, Billie Letts has given us a classic for all times.	2000-09-04
US	50703543	R1F0C6LESVT4EM	0806518146	835366461	The Jewish 100: A Ranking of the Most Influential Jews of All Time	Books	4	7	10	N	N	INFLUENTIAL MINDS	Shapiro's broad sweeping work contains rankings of those whom he considers the top 100 Jewish thinkers and movers of western civilization. His book is  not designed to be a detailed analysis of these lives but instead, a snap  shot commentary on how each individual impacted their area of expertise  that influenced their Jewish community and the world. The rankings of  course are subjective and arbitrary and are not that helpful as to why one  person's contributions is ranked higher than another.<br />     One must  remember that this work is not an intellectual tome but a nice easy to read  book to see who's who in the Jewish world. This work contains many flaws  and arouses some serious questions.<br />     1. Very few women are contained  in the book. Are we to assume that Jewish women on the whole had very  little impact in the western world?<br />     2. Shapiro is a great apologist  for Christianity as he glosses over the negative impact of that religion  upon Judism. Granted Jesus, Mary, Saul and Judas were Jews but the religion  that was spawned from them resulted in a negative impact on Jews world  wide. Christians baited Jews as Christ killers, forced conversions upon  Jews (inquisition) and through their silence allowed the extermination of 6  million Jews. <br />        3. One of the most important questions is how does  one determine who is a Jew? Although many of the names are famous, some  were of mixed marriages ( Proust, Bohr, etc.) where Judism  was absent in  their lives and they converted to Christianity. Also included were those  who denied their heritage or were non-practicing. Should they have been  included regardless of their Jewish background?<br />     In any case this  book is a good resource book for young teenagers, young adults and other  people who wasnt a broad survey of Jews who impacted upon western  civilization	2000-09-03
US	50703543	R1P13MW6J6UY2I	0395599725	23056703	A Voice of One's Own: Conversations with America's Writing Women	Books	5	1	1	N	N	SPEAKING THEIR MIND	Written a decade ago &quot;A Voice Of One's Own&quot;, is a collection of  twenty-eight women writer's relections about their craft of writing. The  interviewer address to them the questions of what motivates, sustains and  inspires them as writers. Unlike other interview collections this work is  very inclusive in that it contains women from various  racial, ethnic,  regional, age and sexual preference groups. <br />     Instead of a question  and answer format as is usual in most interview collections, the  interviewer decides to use a narrative form where one can see the  interweaving of the answers and relections of the various authors. They  become the center of focus, not the interviewer or the question. Three  areas are prominently dealt with in this work.<br />      1. The development  of each woman as a writer. Harriet Doerr shares with us that she didn't  consider herself a writer until she went to college at age 65.<br />       2.  How memory is linked to writing. Gloria Naylor's asserts that all writing  filters itself through memory.<br />                   3. How children and  family impact on writing. Most of the authors have children and share their  thoughts about the challenges for that endeavor.<br />    Having a voice and  knowing how to creatively articulate it is a hallmark of this work. You  will be inspired and reflective of your own writing as you hear these  voices.	2000-09-03
US	50703543	RE6QSVZ9MUTKQ	0060988126	144572179	The Cheater's Handbook : The Naughty Student's Bible	Books	4	7	9	N	N	THE ULTIMATE CHEATER'S DREAM	Beware, such a book as this is a danger to the young minds (and not so  yount) who are trying to make it in institutions of higher yearning (I mean  learning) and want to cut corners. Why is this book so dangerous? Contained  on every page are techniques proven over time on how to successfully cheat  on tests, papers and labs. Students who hold this book in their hands will  feel that they have died and gone to Cheater's Heaven.<br />     Come with our  author as he shows you the classic techniques of cheating from the stone  age. Learn how to dress for cheater's success when taking a test. Meditate  on various strategic ways of positioning yourself as you copy some one's  answers on an exam. Oh, if you don't feel like writing that boring paper,  pay a research service to do it for you<br />     This is a hilarious book  that takes us down to memory lane in the halls of cheatdome. Ah, as an  errant youth do you remember your wandering eyes and crib notes? The  author's presentation is funny on the subject of cheating and deserves four  stars. In terms of ethics, forget it. But this is a book of humor. Enjoy  and laugh. Just make sure the kids don't get it.	2000-09-02
US	50703543	R3JDG5MI8W2EKK	025201684X	798277602	From Harlem to Paris: Black American Writers in France, 1840-1980	Books	5	11	11	N	N	EX-PATRIATE BLACK AMERICAN WRITERS	Any mention of ex-patriate American writers in France evokes the images of  Ernest Hemingway, F. Scott Fritzgerald, John Steinbback and other white  literary luminaries. Seldom are African-American names mentioned or  acknowledged in terms of their presence as well as literary output from  France. Michael Fabre, author of &quot;The Unfinished Quest of Richard  Wright&quot;, who was a Black expatriate from the United States, provides  us with a history of Black writers who from 1840 to 1980 came to France as  expatriates. Most people are unaware that Blacks from Louisiana were the  first handful from the States to come to France for education, freedom and  to write. From this small group the tradition continued with Frederick  Douglass, Booker T. Washington,  Du Bois and other great Black  intellectuals.<br />     Why did they come? France's tradition of liberty,  equality and brotherhood was an attraction. Throughout the early 20th  century, Blacks came to escape the racism of America and have the  opportunity to work in their craft which was denied them in Europe.  France's &quot;lack&quot; of racism was a breath of fresh air to African  Americans under the mantle of segregation. France enabled them as writers  to be artistically free. Each generation of Black writers who came to  France were inspired by its so called liberalism. Yet even in its  liberalism Black writers in the 60's began to scrutinize the racism of  France that was articulated in its treatment of those  colonials from  Algeria and Senegal.<br />     Fabre critiques each individual writer who came  and gives us  a historical context in which we can understand the unique  spell that France had over attracting Black writers. The text concentrates  on Black males since few Black female writers stayed over for any length of  time. Those that did are given an even treatment. From Harlem to Paris  gives one an appreciation for the contributions of Black writers in France.  It is a book to have in one's library for literary studies of African  Americans and expatriate writers.	2000-08-30
US	50703543	R1VP0NU0JLWCYE	0874779472	330138680	Deep Writing: 7 Principles That Bring Ideas to Life	Books	5	62	68	N	N	WRITING WITH PASSION	Many potential writers want to write but are stuck on the blank first  page. Others write an endless array of words whose content (if there is  any) means nothing and leaves one dry. Enter Eric Maisel, a writer's  analyst, coach, and encourager who shares with us seven principles of  becoming a deep writer. What does he mean by writing deeply? He means for  us to be able to write passionately and well about those things that really  matter to us. Using case studies of five individual writers, he shows us  how to work through the principles of hushing the mind, holding the  intention, making choices, honoring the process, befriending the work,  evaluating the work and doing what is required. Each principle builds on  the other to a point where writing becomes a spiritual exercise.      I  love this book because it enabled me to reflect and pay attention to my own  writing. Its varied principles and quirky exercises stimulated my mind and  fostered new ideas for the printed page. Purchasing &quot;Deep  Writing&quot; was almost like having my own personal coach to help me  become more intentional in what I do as a writer. Maisel is intentional as  to what he wants a writer to do and keeps one to the grindstone. He deals  with the reality of what encompasses the writing business and how we must  make choices in dealing with those realities. I highly recommend this work  to all writers who wish to write with integrity and passionately.	2000-08-25
US	50703543	RZ3XYG8WSRJQE	1563410885	141607946	Evil Dead Center: A Mystery	Books	5	0	0	N	N	AN UGLY TRUTH	An Ojibwa woman's body is found dead on the outskirts of the reservation. Ruled as a suicided by the coroner, Renee LaRoche is told otherwise. A  surprise call from an ex-lover, Cal,reveals the possibility of a murder.  Never one to sit still, Renee jumps at the attempt to unravel this murder  mystery which becomes more complex as layer after layer is peeled revealing  an ugly truth on the reservation.<br />     You are immediately swept into the  drama of Renee's past life and the issue of interracial adoptions/foster  care, the connectednessand sacredness of nature for the Ojibwa people, and  the ugliness of child pornography. In this second novel we learn how Sam,  Renee's partner, comes to grips with her own insecurities regarding Renee's  love and ex-lover. Renee does her own self evaluation as she reminises  about her days in the movement and why her relationship with Cal fizzled.  Finally we are confronted with the sordid personality of a  &quot;respected&quot; pedophile who has unleashed his venom on Native  American children and whose racism is allowed to flourish. Join with Renee  as  she attempts to uncover a pornography ring which threatens to tear away  the fabric of Ojibwa society and culture. This adventure will arise anger  in you and make you sick at a system that destroys children. Yet there is  hope. This is an outstanding novel of Carole LaFavor which deserves our  attention.	2000-08-20
US	50703543	REK4941S4RFPB	1558747699	63253931	Chicken Soup for the Writer's Soul: Stories to Open the Heart and Rekindle the Spirit of Writers	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A GIFT FOR WRITERS	From the moment I first saw the title,I knew that I must buy this book and I did. If you ever experienced writing then giving up, rejection after  rejection, writer's block or other malaises that haunt a writer then  Chicken Soup will abundantly fill your soul with  joy in being a writer.  Over eighty authors from diverse backgrounds share with us their  anecdotes, memories and triumphs of writing. Many of them were told they  didn't have what it takes to become a writer. Others were discouraged at an  early age while some faced rejection after rejection. After reading their  stories you will know that through it all writing made a difference in  their lives and subsequently in the lives of their readers despite the  hardships a writer faces.<br />  This book is truly a gift for writers as  they go through the process of putting their thoughts onto paper. The book  is broken down into ten sections with topics which include how the author  became a writer, obstacles to overcome, making a difference and many other  pertinent insights for a writer. By all means, if you write or want to  write, purchase this book for inspiration, reflection and with the hope  knowing that you are not alone as a writer.	2000-08-17
US	50703543	R2104A1MR37S7S	1573227064	14691342	The Call	Books	4	15	16	N	N	LISTENING TO RESPOND	Everyone at one point in their live has posed the question of the meaning of existence. What is my purpose here on earth, what am I to do are just a  few of the many questions that have escaped from our lips. In this slim  volume David Spangler enables us to deal with that still small voice that  nudges us into unknown territory. The name we give that voice is &quot;The  Call&quot; which is active throughout our lives.      Spangler shares with  us his own personal experiences in both accepting the call and defining its  meaning. He shows us that in both the spiritual and scientific world,  humanity is part of the whole. We are to live, give and grow in this world  of ours as we accept our call in life. We, ourselves are walking answers to  the call.      This text lays out the differences between a call and a  summons and how they work in our lives. We are also given insight  concerning issues of power and integrity. In essence calls are all around  us but we must pay attention. Calls are also not one shot deals but are  processes that work themselves through us in the course of a lifetime. The  Call is a beautiful book which points one onto his or her spiritual  journey. By all means listen to your call and respond. The Call will enable  you on your quest. It is a much needed resource in your spiritual library.	2000-08-15
US	50703543	R1PUN3RCPUNRHC	1562800124	672053106	The Lavender House Murder: A Virginia Kelly Mystery	Books	4	2	2	N	N	SURPRISES GALORE	Chicago is steamy and unpleasant this summer. Vacation time is here and Naomi drags Ginny off to Provincetown on Cape Cod. Sex is hot for the  asking, the music is wild and cruising hasn't gone out of style. Lavender  House is the &quot;in&quot; bread and breakfast spot for vacationing  lesbians looking for some thrills in their life.<br />     While Ginny roams  from bed to bed trying to decide about her relationship with her old lover,  Naomi encounters her first love. Ginny takes a jog and while out stumbles  upon the dead body of one of Lavender's guests, Joan. Once again Ginny  finds herself as a potential suspect for murder. Joan is a well known  lesbian activist and columnist whose acid journalism has earned her many  enemies. Ginny was her last night stand (or was she?) before her murder.  Can Ginny get herself out of this mess when the murderer could be anyone at  the house as well as those on the outside who have every right to have  wanted Joan dead? This is the second of the series of A Virginia Kelly  Mystery that will keep you guessing.	2000-08-14
US	50703543	R2IHXN0XAKDQ60	1562800043	657188572	In the Game (Virginia Kelly Mystery)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	WHAT ARE FRIENDS FOR?	Ginny's best friend, Bev, has a problem. Her white lover, a well known lesbian executive is found dead near a lesbian bar. A mutual friend, Naomi,  believes Bev will be suspect. After all she is Black and is more likely to  shoulder the blame since the two had problems. Once she is blamed then  Ginny and Naomi may be found guilty by association.<br />     Ginny refuses to  believe this and begins her own investigation in finding the real killer.  While pursuing this course she runs into her own set of personal problems.  She dumps her own white lover for a crazed female lawyer who is  continuously stalking her. She also has problems of being a lone Black  lesbian who has few Black friends to relate to and feels unfulfilled in her  relationships with one white lover after another.<br />     Follow her through  the twists and turns of Chicago and Boston as she attempts to solve this  mystery. Nikki Baker has given us a decent first novel in a new series  featuring a Black Lesbian Detective. It is well worth the read and touches  on a wide variety of issues involving race, class, sexuality and  self-esteem. No doubt we will hear more about Virginia &quot;Ginny&quot;  Kelly.	2000-08-13
US	50703543	R13Z3ATBJ6Z37G	1564312186	718378913	Illusions: A Nameless Detective Novel (Nameless Detective Mystery)	Books	5	3	7	N	N	JUSTICE SERVED?	A suicide always leaves lingering questions with those left behind and  evokes deep feelings of guilt. So is the case with Eberhardt, Nameless's  ex-partner, who commited suicide. Nameless is plagued by guilt and goes on  an obsessive quest to find the answer as to &quot;why&quot; Eberhardt did  it. What drove him to the edge?<br />     While pursuing this question  Nameless deals with an accidental death or suicide of a former client. His  search for answers to that killing leads him into the realms of abuse and  the question of whether justice is really ever served by revealing an  interpretive truth. Are the victims sometimes the guilty ones even though  they have been miserably abused? Is justice a cut and dried formula that we  mete out indiscriminately without regard to the circumstances? Come and  join Nameless on this painful quest as he attempts to get answers. This is  Pronzini at his best in story telling.	2000-08-13
US	50703543	R22OWC5EVKIXV8	0152085661	620859733	Black Pioneers of Science and Invention	Books	4	35	36	N	N	PIONEERING WORK	When first published thirty years ago this was one of the few if not only books devoted to profiling the lives and achievements of Black scientists.  All of those  fourteen profiled individuals were either unknown or had been  put in the halls of obscurity. Louis Haber changed all of that by showing  young people that Blacks have contributed much in the scientific field. The  stories are remarkable as you see how these men overcame racial,  educational and economic obstacles to produce discoveries which have  impacted upon our lives.<br />     The information about these pioneers are  just as significant today as they were thirty years ago. Black Pioneers is  a classic work in its field but needs revision even though the author has  died. More information concerning the scientists is available that can be  included in this work. Conspiculously absent is the contributions of Black  women scientists. They too need to be included in the text as well as an  updated bibliography. Other than those changes this book is an excellent  introductory tome for young and old people who are curious about the  contributions of Blacks in science.	2000-08-13
US	50703543	R274ODOYYUBOXY	0816510970	961171145	Dancing on the Rim of the World: An Anthology of Contemporary Northwest Native American Writing (Sun Tracks)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	THE EARTH'S CENTER	Place plays an important part in the literary scope of the authors  represented in this anthology. Contained in this volume is a collection of  poetry and prose pieces by contemporary Native American writers of the  Pacific Northwest.<br />     Native American literature has been stereotyped  as being primitive, naive and exotic. The theme of &quot; The Vanishing  American&quot; is the typical literary description given to Native American  works. It is the purpose of this volume to deconstruct such myths that have  been imposed by outsiders. The pieces challenge the social, political and  mores of American society.<br />     The majority of this text contained  poetry. I assumed through the title that there was an equitable mix of both  but that wan't the case. I found the title misleading and wished there were  more prose pieces. For those interested in Native American Poetry for  study, particularly of the Northwest, this is an excellent text and I  recommend it. For those of us who are more interested in prose, I would say  find another anthology specializing in the region with prose writers. In  any case this work will open your eyes in looking at Native American  writing, in particular poetry, from a contemporary perspective.	2000-08-12
US	50703543	R1DUY2HLEB8XAQ	089296684X	886861021	Limited Time	Books	5	3	3	N	N	GETTING THE EDGE	A world class swimming athlete bound for the olympics dies a mysterious death. Cuba's premiere boxer is suffering from a high fever, loss of energy  and incessant vomiting. The one linking connection to those two cases is  himself found dead from mysterious causes.<br />     Enter into the world of  research of pathologist Henry Bales as he attempts to break the mystery of  an experiment run amok and unbridled by greed and power. Assisted by his  friend C.J. Floyd, the two penetrate a conspiracy that goes from the  athletic fields of Colorado and all the way into Fidel Castro's Cuba.<br />      Robert Greer does an outstanding job in weaving togeter a murder medical  mystery. He introduces us into the areana of pathology where we learn how  these medical detectives unravel secrets through a microscope. What they  find is chilling as we look at the greed of athletic competitition. We see  that athletes will do anything to get an edge. There are also those who  will prey on those athletes with drugs that have serious medical  implications as well as enhancers for performance. This is a must read  book. It is easy to follow though the scientific words may throw you off.  It is a break from Greer's Floyd Mysyteries. He has truly created a great  story.	2000-08-12
US	50703543	R1FKU6H8GHFENG	0886469139	594234600	Guilty as Charged	Books	5	3	3	N	N	LET'S GO FISHING	Everyone needs a vacation every now and again. Nameless is no exception as  he escapes from the memory of his ex-partner's suicide and goes off to a  mountain resort for rejuvination. Peace, quiet and solitude is just what he  needs!<br />     Revenge, payback and hatred is what another vactioner desires  as he plots the demise of all those who made him suffer when imprisoned. He  too, desires the solitude needed to hatch his murderous plot. When he and  Nameless encounter one another an explosive adventure begins leading both  into mayhem.<br />     Pronzini takes us into the mind of a mad man whose  psychosis keeps Nameless on the edge. Allow yourself to be intrigued and  put on the edge by another exciting thriller in the Nameless series. Let's  go fishing with Nameless.	2000-08-08
US	50703543	R376VH2018FLPO	0313302863	991876625	Ernest J. Gaines: A Critical Companion (Critical Companions to Popular Contemporary Writers)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A GAINES PERSPECTIVE	If you have ever watched The Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman or A Lesson Before Dying then the name of Ernest J. Gaines is familiar to you.  Our author has been selected for inclusion in the series called Critical  Companions to Popular Comtemporary Writers. The board composed of high  school english teachers and librarians have selected contemporary authors  for critical analysis of their works that have become a part of the  secondary schools' english curriculums. As with all criticisms the authors'  works are examined thematically, analysis of character/plot is given, a  point of view and the development of the work's structure. A unique feature  to this series is that it gives an alternate reading to the text by using  the tools of feminism, historicism, Marxism and psychology.<br />     All of  Gaines' works are subject to the above scrutiny but we find some  interesting challenges in examining Gaines. First, he defies  cateogorization. He refuses to pigeon hole himself as a Black author, or  southern author, etc. for he moves beyond the stereotypes placed on genres.  Second, although Gaines' works show the Black male perspective there is a  strong female presence that runs throughout his books. Third, Gaines  appears to fall in the tradition of a literary realist. He depicts things  as they are rather than what the reader wants them to be. Such a work is  helpful in understanding the works of Gaines. The only problem I saw was  the use of eurocentric literary tools in analyzing his work. Otherwise this  book serves as a good resource on Gaines.	2000-08-07
US	50703543	R1I7XXDJXZXU7J	0786707305	673800066	Crazybone (A Nameless Detective novel)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	YOU MUST BE CRAZY	What woman in her right mind would refuse a $50,000 insurance settlement upon the death of her spouse? So what if she is affluent? Fifty-thousand is  a nice piece of change. Intercoastal Insurance Company is concerned about  this inconsistency. Out of the goodness of their hearts they are willing to  give the widow the money without the usual hassle of filling out forms. Of  course the family must be squeaky clean and be willing to endorse the  goodness of the company.<br />     So Intercoastal sends Nameless down to  investigate this grieving widow. Poor Nameless finds more than grief. He  ends up stepping in a cesspool of deceit, abuse , negligence and a bond  scam that hides itself in the widow's life and community. A few deaths and  misplaced identities further muddies the waters for Nameless. In the midst  of this is the widow's innocent young daughter who immediately takes a  liking to Nameless.<br />     This isn't one of the best of the Nameless  series but provides decent entertainment. There are too many murders going  on and we're side-tracked with a mystery that Nameless's mother-in-law is  trying to solve. In any case you will get into some of the suspenseful  action. It could be better.	2000-08-04
US	50703543	R2L5I7R9IPTOXA	1563410702	295365874	Along the Journey River: A Mystery	Books	3	1	1	N	N	SLOW MOVING	A rash of thefts and desecrations of Native American artifacts and graves has hit the reservations throughout the south and midwest. The Ojibwa tribe  finds its ceremonial objects stolen from the reservation's school. Trouble  doesn't stop there for the tribal chairman is found dead. In the midst of  these events the tribal dreamer, school teacher and sometime sleuth enters  to solve the mystery.<br />     Meet Renee La Roche the above described Ojibwa  dreamer who attempts to regain her tribe's ceremonial objects in addition  to dealing with other challenges in her personal life. Struggling in her  relationship with her white lesbian lover, dealing with the rebelliousness  of her teenage daughter and attempting to help another Ojibwan come to  terms with himself, Renee has quite a bit on her shoulders. How she  attempts to juggles these challenges in addition to solving the theft and  murder will focus your attention.<br />     Although the theme and all the  elements of a good story are there this book is very slow moving. You are  bogged down with meaningless information before you even get to the murder.  Renee's problem with her lover is unclear. Is it due to cultural, racial or  economic differences that cause the tension? The same problem emerges when  you try to find out just how Renee gets herself involved in the  investigation. Is it because she is the tribal dreamer or what? Quite a bit  of technical questions need to be answered in this novel. It is slow moving  but has the potential for greater adventure and depth.	2000-08-02
US	50703543	RC5J9DT40LAKT	1583220208	123703959	God Bless You, Dr. Kevorkian	Books	4	2	3	N	N	HERE WE GO	LIVE! DIRECT from heaven, hell or where ever are Kurt's exclusive one of a kind interviews with thirty of humanity's finest and not so finest spirits.  With the aide of Jack the K, Kurt was able to visit the otherside and get  these exclusive tidbits of reflections from the now deceased. You will  laugh and be glad you are alive when you read their words of wisdom. The  only problem with these interviews is that Kurt interviews only dead old  people.<br />     He also leaves out dead athletes, musicians, religious  freaks and other oddballs so characteristic of vintage Vonnegut. Oh well,  when you get his age and have near death experiences I guess the only  people you can catch are the older ones. Even in death the younger ones are  busy running around. This book is a light enjoyable read of Vonnegut in his  reflective years.	2000-08-02
US	50703543	R2NLNCJUVRFABJ	0786701390	673331672	With an Extreme Burning	Books	4	2	2	N	N	WIDOWER'S WOE	Dix Mallory had lived in his small town practically all of his life except for a brief absence. He married, taught at a local college and was a faithful husband. A tragic car accident ended the life of his wife and  Mallory did his best to deal with her death. Then the phone calls came. At  first they were an annoyance then became vicious. A male voice claimed  Mallory's wife was unfaithful.      Soon we find this average joe  questioning himself, his marriage and if indeed his wife's death was an  accident or murder. Come follow this intriguing story as we see close-knit  friends become suspects, innocent victims become the pariahs of the  community and a pathetic man is excused for his sins.      See how one  murder leads to another but &quot;the law&quot; is unable or unwilling to  protect those whose lives are in imminent danger. The implications of these  actions taken will have a chilling effect upon you as you witness the  widower's woes.	2000-07-31
US	50703543	R2UXOERM08BYC0	0060193921	918268191	State of a Union: Inside the Complex Marriage of Bill and Hillary Clinton	Books	3	28	38	N	N	STATE OF DELUSION	Bill and Hillary Clinton are perhaps the most scrutinized presidential couple in United States history. Bill's sexual dalliances, Hillary's aloofness and the numerous scandals will be remembered far more than any of  his policies. With so much turmoil going on why does this couple stay  together?       Although this book attempts to get inside the complex  marriage of  the couple, it fails to offer any meaningful insights about  their relationship. Most of what we're told has already been made public.  That which we don't know (Hillary's Jewish aunt, her anti-semitic remarks,  etc.) makes its way to the surface only because of Hillary's quest for the  senate.      Both Bill and Hillary come from dysfunctional homes with  relatives and parents that failed to be the greatest examples of marital  bliss. Naturally Bill and Hillary brought with them both the strengths and  weaknesses from their families. In the political arena they could afford to  put on masks and delude their public but when things got hot they had to  retreat and write another script. Men and women marry for different  reasons. In many cases it is not for love but for security, power,  consolidation of land and political alliances. Such is true of the  Clintons, Kennedys and Roosevelts and many other leaders. The complexity in  their marriage we will never know. We as a people most hold them  accountable for what they do as servants of the people who hold the public  trust in their hands. The Clintons are coming to the end of their term.  They broke their trust in their marriage will they do the same again in  serving the people? Or will they move beyond their state of delusion and  work on their marriage? The book doesn't give us any insight on this  question and others.	2000-07-30
US	50703543	RA6TIVH5LHXF2	0824517717	523147197	Doctors of the Church: Thirty-Three Men and Women Who Shaped Christianity	Books	5	19	19	N	N	ILLUMINATING TEACHERS	Like most protestants the term &quot;doctor of the church&quot; meant little to me. If anything it may have referred to those ministers in the church who had conferred upon them an honorary doctory of divinity degree.  As the years went by I encountered the term in one of my college religion  classes but its origins were never explained to me until the advent of this  book.<br />     Bernard McGinn profiles the lives of thirty-three men and  women who shaped Christianity not by academic degrees but through their  sermons, teachings, exemplary lives and leadership. These illuminating  teachers were the &quot;Doctors of the Church.&quot; In his introduction  the evolution of the term is explained. In Latin christianity it was a  generic term denoting all who gave instruction in the faith. As the church  began to institutionalize and doctrinal disputes arose ,the term and the  functions of such persons became more critical. Thus the institutional  church gave a person the authoritative title of &quot;doctor&quot; however  it was understood that the Holy Spirit was the guiding principal in that  person's teachings.<br />     The text is divided into three time periods in  which these doctors emerged;Patristic, Medieval and Modern. A brief  bography is given on each subject and the particular teaching that they  expoused. In the Patristic period we find doctors who are acceptable in  both the Roman Catholic and Eastern Othodox traditions. At the close of his  text the author speculates about the future of the doctors of the church.  Will protestants be included? What about more laity, women and those who  are married? What importance will they have for the future of Christianity  as a whole?      I highly recommend this book for those interested in  church history, the individual doctors and the impact that these thinkers  had on all aspects of Christianity. For the general reader it is an  accessible document and will give you a greater appreciation of the  church's history and growth through its teachers.	2000-07-30
US	50703543	R18IUNL3JQDAEB	0930422317	858646485	Bonsai Techniques I	Books	5	22	25	N	N	BONSAI MADE SIMPLE	Bonsai, the art of dwarfing trees, was at one time a specialized hobby for only a few. In recent years it has become popular and you can find these miniature trees in florist shops as well as in Home Depot. Regretably,  these small trees have a short lifespan when taken home by the owner. In  most cases, the owner hasn't a clue as how to take care of the tree for a  lifetime enjoyment.<br />     Ignorance is not bliss for bonsai. John Yoshio  Naka removes all ignorance by providing the first time bonsai owner with a  one step guide on techniques of caring, shaping, dwarfing and feeding these  trees. Using pictures and simple diagrams you are shown the step by step  techniques on how to dwarf a tree. Notes are also provided on the monthly  care of the tree. Advice is also given to make adjustments in the care of  your bonsai depending on your geographical region.      This text is  perfect for amateurs and those who are thinking abouting starting a bonsai  collection. Its simplicity is highly user friendly. If you follow the  instructions as given, you will achieve a lifetime enjoyment of bonsai.	2000-07-26
US	50703543	R1LRM3GULZ591I	0452276942	767674720	No Rules: 21 Giant Lies About Success and How to Make It Happen Now	Books	3	15	16	N	N	WAKE UP AND SMELL REALITY	Finally, someone has come and exploded all of those tried and true myths of success. A customer is always right, right? NOT! Just think positive and all good things will come to you. What other good jokes do you know?<br />      In this hilarious book Dan Kennedy forces you to come to grips with reality  and examine those micky mouse rules of success that have been ingrained in  our minds. He shows the absurdity of them and encourages us to seek  alternative avenues of self-fulfillment if we're going to make it in the  business world. Nice guys finish last so smarten up.<br />     No Rules is  funny, insane and will offend those purists of positive thinking and other  ideas of fair play. Come on folk, we live in a cut throat, competitive  culture which calls for drastic measures. Get with the program is Dan's  battle cry and wake up.<br />     Despite the fact that Dan debunks the rules,  he creates his own which are just as bad. He gives you the feeling that  honesty is out and that being crude, rude and plain obnoxious is the way to  success. Like everything else you must proceed with caution in swallowing  his lines. The positive thing that must be said of this book is that it  teaches us not to take things at face value. All ideas are open to critique  and yes rules need to be broken in order to progress. Happy reading.	2000-07-25
US	50703543	R2AY5XFKJAENR2	051788206X	556248539	Almost Vegetarian: A Primer for Cooks Who Are Eating Vegetarian Most of the Time, Chicken & Fish Some of the Time, & Altogether Well All of the Time	Books	4	18	19	N	N	VEGGIES AREN'T SO BAD!	Remember when growing up as a child you abhored vegetables? Moms across the nation have spent vast hours in cajoling their little darlings into eating those &quot;things&quot; that were good for them. Now as an adult  we're told that we need to eat more vegetable if we care about our health.  Sigh. We reluctantly acquiese but still we hate those green (or not so  green) things.<br />     Hate no more as I have done in coming across this  delightful cookbook. If you still love meat but need more veggies in your  diet please explore this text. Inside you will come across mouth watering  recipes that are easy to make. And the vegetable dishes taste fantastic.  You don't have to commit to vegetarianism in order to enjoy the varied  meals presented which also include chicken and fish.<br />     Almost  Vegetarians isn't preachy like Mom in trying to convince you to eat  vegetables. It is a sensible guide which offers a variety of ways in which  those things can be made delicious for our palets. It also contains advice  on purchasing the proper cookware, buying mail order and a great  bibliography. If you weren't sold on vegetables before, you will be with  this book. Have a great meal!	2000-07-25
US	50703543	R3SDO1VR21HDU8	0684806827	689329406	New Our Right to Love: A Lesbian Resource Book	Books	5	2	2	N	N	AN IMPROVED CLASSIC	Since its orginal publication in the late 70's this invaluable resource guide and classic has become much more inclusive in its contents and has addressed issues impacting on every aspect of a Lesbian's life. Now as we  find ourselves in a new century we find that the culture is changing its  views about Lesbians and Gays. At every major religious denominational  convention, the status of both groups have been debated. Vermont's stand in  recognizing unions among Lesbian and Gay couples has called the nation to  rethink its so-called definition of marriage and the privileges that go  with it.<br />     In this century of such rapid change this resource stands  as the major guide to enable Lesbians to deal with the issues that will  face them. Several of the areas that I found enlightening was that of  religion/spirituality and the vast spectrum of lesbian experience that is  inclusive of all groups. Patriarchial religion is the greatest stumbling  block in denying Lesbians their humanity and right to love. How individual  Lesbians have dealt with religious patriarchy and at the same time keeping  their spirituality intact is a feat within itself.      This is a book  which everyone should read as our culture and society becomes more  accepting of Lesbians and their lifestyles. It is a resource which provides  invaluable information and hope for a better future.	2000-07-24
US	50703543	R20ZXBHQ8T9JWJ	0312088477	174624683	Modern Classics of Science Fiction	Books	3	2	20	N	N	HIGHLY PERSONALIZED	All anthologies run the risk of being to broad or to narrow in its choice of selections of a particular writer or genre. Dozois readily admits that his selections are highly personalized choices of works that he likes. He  eliminates time lines, political correctness and other superficial criteria  which would get in his way. He is to be praised for his individual taste  but with a title that implies a broad selection, he falls very short of the  task.<br />     Modern Classics contains stories of known and not so well  known science fiction writers (with the latter predominating). Many of the  stories you will not find in similar anthologies. In fact some are very  quirky (The Ugly Chickens) and you wonder how in the world did the editor  decide it was a classic. Each story presented is preceded by a brief  introduction of the author's publishing history and his or her standing in  the science fiction community. Some of the writers have fallen into the web  of obscurity while others have slowed down in their output.<br />     One of  the most disappointing aspects of this work is its poor representation of  African-Americans, women and other ethnic groups who are writing in this  field. Sure, Dozois is entitled to his own partisen tastes but is science  fiction still the ghetto for white males with a few tokens here and there?  On a positive note, the fact that it intoduces us to writers that are  obscure is good. A recovery of their works will bring a deeper appreciation  for the genre.	2000-07-24
US	50703543	R19GE0QK00KB32	0060609583	121794899	That's Funny, You Don't Look Buddhist: On Being a Faithful Jew and a Passionate Buddhist	Books	3	17	28	N	N	STRADDLING THE FENCE?	Sylvia Boorstein has presented us with a charming, thoughtful and engaging work on how one can reconcile one's Jewish faith with being a Buddhist. The two appear to be mutually exclusive but through Boorstein's eyes it is  easier than you think. Quite frankly the great weakness of this book is  that the reconciliation that she proposes is a mere straddling of the  fence. Buddhism and Judism are two distinct separate faiths each with their  weaknesses and strengths. Each one of us will have a much stronger regard  for one than the other. This is not to say that one faith group is  superior/inferior to the other but instead you will have a preference over  one than the other. Why not be honest and say that instead of dancing  around the issue? I find quite a bit of dancing and straddling going on in  the book.<br />     Let's face it, there are a variety of religions and faith  groups in our world. Most of us don't seriously study or consider the  depths of spirituality in our own group so we become disillusioned and  explore others. Such an exploration can lead us back to our own group with  a deeper appreciation of it or we can stay in our newly adopted group for  it provides answers that the other group couldn't provide. A serious  spiritual journey will involve various detours and pathways but remember  you cannot travel two pathways similtaneously to get to the same place.<br />      Don't you find it funny that traditional Buddhist teachers such as the  Dalai Lama have a deep appreciation for Moses, Jesus and other faith groups  but don't try to co-opt them as their own? They also encourage those to  remain in their faith group where they can gain sustenance if they dig deep  enough. If only we could take their advice. Enjoy Boorstein's book as the  journey of a soul attempting to reconcile two faith groups but don't  straddle the fence in your quest.	2000-07-23
US	50703543	RZ2RG5XN3D2RT	0062510258	308320609	Epitaph for a Peach: Four Seasons on My Family Farm	Books	5	14	17	N	N	LAMENTATIONS FOR A PEACH	Death is destined to come to all of creation. In this case it came to a peach but not just any peach. Sun Crest peaches died not because of their bitter taste or ugly appearance. They were a victim of a market that values  a long shelf-life more than taste. They were casualties of the public's  need for the red skinned variety of the fruit rather than its golden hue.  Sorry, Sun Crest, you are no longer profitable or valued for your sweet and  juicy taste. It is time for your demise.<br />     With moving eloquence and  lyrical prose David Musumoto shares with us the story of his attempts to  save a peach whose cultivation was a defining part of his life. David's  story is the story of all family farmers struggling to stay alive and  afloat in the vast world of the agribusiness. As one who is a resident of  the &quot;peach&quot; state and has seen the destruction of its groves and  dispersion of family farmers, I can readily identify with the various  themes of which David shares.<br />     Walk with him through the four seasons  where we learn about the preparation of the soil, pruning, watering,  caring, harvesting and marketing of the peaches. You find out that farming  is hard work that requires faith, patience, experimentation and a tough  hide when you experience failure. David interweaves his own personal  history of farming through three generations to give us an appreciation of  a lifestyle that is deeply embeded in one's soul.<br />     As citizens in the  21st century we have some numerous decisions to make. Do we want  agribusiness to control our food supply thus limiting our choices or we  will support farmers such as David who offer us a product more satisfying?  Too often we will go with cheap and quick availability without looking at  the whole picture to make room for both agribusiness and small farmers.  Which side will we chose? Is an epitaph for a peach in reality an epitaph  for the family farm? Think about it as you read this enriching, thoughtful  and engaging work.	2000-07-22
US	50703543	RG5YRSGY4W2ZK	0451628330	563262287	Growing Up in the South: An Anthology of Modern Southern Literature (Mentor Series)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	SOUTHERN VOICES SPEAK OF CHILDHOOD	Southern literature was not a course of study in my high school nor in my college english classes. I was delighted when I found this anthology which contained modern stories about growing up in the south. As the south  experiences an influx of northerners and other groups from around the world  it will gradually lose its unique flavor which makes it the south.       Growing Up In The South captures the voices of those who grew up in the  region and experienced all the ups and downs that this unique region of the  country had to offer. Jones brings together a broad cross section of  southern writers from across the region. Unlike other anthologies she is  inclusive of both Black and White writers who lived in the same region but  whose experiences were vastly different but in many cases overlapped. The  focus of this volume is on growing up as a child in the south as well as  the exploration of regional themes that permeate through all of the  fictional and autobiographical selections.      All anthologies run the  risk of being boring or incomplete. Jones avoids this and gives one a  balanced picture of southern childhood as experienced by the authors. Just  a sampling of each story will encourage you to seek out the full works of  the authors. Southern literature can said to be the soul of America's  literary heritage. This volume indeed speaks to us from the souls of its  southern authors. Share their stories and learn how they grew and matured  in a region full of violence, racism, and misunderstandings but still holds  a deep sense of space and place in their lives.	2000-07-22
US	50703543	R2XF4PWA59GFMK	1566562120	635293248	Cry Bosnia	Books	5	6	6	N	N	REFLECTIONS FROM A WAR	I found this book hidden in the corner of the post exchange on Eagle Base in Tuzla. From the moment I opened its pages I knew that I would never put it down. Many volumes speak about the political, social, economic and  ethnic divisions which caused the war in the Balkans. Cry Bosnia is not a  dry history book which feeds the intellect with numerous facts and figures.  Paul Harris, through his photography, has allowed the people of the region  speak to us through their hearts. It is through the pictures and commentary  that Cry Bosnia speaks to the hearts and minds of those distant witnesses  of the Balkan War.<br />     Harris doesn't spare us as he shows us the  pictures of both human and physical destruction of a land of beauty. When  we view those pictures we see faces of grief, despair and rage. At the same  time we see hope, courage, laughter and the spirit of tenaciousness as a  people attempt to rebuild their lives in the midst of a senseless war. When  we see these pictures we see the ugliness of our humanity. Bosnia reflects  the beast which is within us as the &quot;world&quot; allowed slaughter to  go on as is asserted in the text.      If anything Cry Bosnia can teach us  to move beyond our negative spirits and recover the good from within us.  Such a reflection from a war should move us to be more accountable to one  another as our world gets smaller and smaller.	2000-07-22
US	50703543	R32N63PW6OKM70	0805046291	622531338	Flat-Footed Truths: Telling Black Women's Lives	Books	5	4	4	N	N	BROKEN SILENCE	Telling the truth can be a painful exercise. Telling the truth can open unhealed wounds with poisonous pus erupting. Once told the silence is broken. Only then can truth be liberating and true healing can take  place.<br />     African-american women get the truth told about their lives  in this diverse collection of essays, poetry, interviews and photography.  Through these various mediums we engage Black women in discussing the  difficulties in telling about their lives, healings which took place,  relationships that have been broken and reclaimed and the challenges of  resisting marginalization.<br />     For years many gifted Black women have  been relegated into the obscurity of silence by the culture at large and  sadly by their own people. Travel with Alice Walker as she rescues Zora  Neale Hurston from the pit of obscurity. Walker shares with us the  adventure of one Black woman writer searching to honor another Black woman  writer who was placed in obscurity. Zora was independent and shows what  happens to a woman with a mind of her own.<br />     Kate Rushin questions us  about suicide. Are Black women crazy enough to consider it? We're too busy  going through life changes to worry about it. Or do we? Consider Rushin's  poetry.      Overall this volume presents Black women as they are. They are  not the superwomensapphiresbitchesmammies and other stereotypes that are  placed upon them but are reflective, intelligent women whose lives have  enriched their culture. A brief glimpse of their works enables us to  appreciate them for whom and what they are. Through the telling of the  truth then we can appreciate ourselves and those women in our communities  who have given so much. By all means put this book in your own personal  library. I have.	2000-07-21
US	50703543	R16214YWWLQEAT	0874779359	934920612	Voices from the Heart	Books	5	3	3	N	N	CALL FOR RESPONSIBILITY	Humanity has mastered science, industry, technology and other areas of this physical world. At the same time human beings have failed miserably in their relationships with themselves as individuals, with others and the  environment. What meaningful ways can we address these issues before we  destroy ourselves and our environment?<br />     Editors Eddie and Debbie  Shapiro confront the question through presenting us with the insights of  various known and unknown people who are in the midst of finding answers  for the problems of this world. The voices you hear come from diverse  cultures, nations, different economical and political systems. The common  thread throughout the book is that all the voices call us to responsibility  as individuals working through our societies.<br />     Listen to Millard  Fuller who advices us to change our lifestyles and personally help our  neighbor through concrete action. Desmond Tutu calls us to forgiveness if  we ever hope to live in this world as a human family. Rachel  Remen reminds  us that it is in the power of the spirit to heal and not just the mechanics  of medicine.      Voices from the Heart call us to become more responsible  in dealing with problems that impact our lives. The examples given in each  of the interviews are workable and applicable for our communities. The  challenge is for us to use these resource as a jump start to begin change  within ourselves and then extend it to our communities. By all means read,  meditate and apply the wisdom in this book to your world.	2000-07-19
US	50703543	R2XF2WCTDT8N8Y	0446400882	924259259	A Rare Benedictine (Chronicles of Brother Cadfael)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	AT LAST	Those of you who are Brother Cadfael  fans will certainly enjoy this tale. Our monastic sleuth has solved innumerable mysteries but he, himself has been a mystery. We never knew about his origins or how he became a monk.<br />      His advent is certainly a good read as we learn about the life of  Brother Cadfael the former mercenary and wanderer. Three brief stories are  given in this volume. The first deals with Cadfael's origins, the second  follows up on a mystery of stolen silver candlesticks and the third tale  regales us with the theft of the Abbey's rent. All three taken together  presents us with a rare insight on how Brother Cadfael's mind and  curiousity works in solving a mystery. This was a fun read.	2000-07-19
US	50703543	R8JADE4CTZO4F	0140186980	822050560	The Death of Methuselah and Other Stories (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	METHUSELAH'S CHILDREN	Master story teller Isaac  Bashevis Singer regales us once again with this remarkable collection of short stories. Woe to those who are faint of heart or have inflexible moral standards. His stories are sure to give you a  coronary as you are confronted with issues of blasphemy, debauchery,  mystery and intrigue. Singer assaults the whole of human fickleness in his  tales.<br />     Yet his tales are not all sordid. In &quot;The Bitter  Truth&quot; we see a man's loyalty to his friend over-rides a secret that  could spell disaster. &quot;House Friend&quot; will have you laughing at  the mere concept of a friend having sexual relations with another friend's  wife with full hearted encouragement from the friend. Go figure?       Singer's stories are down to earth and deal with the varied human  negativities that we display unashamedly. God's presence is very much in  the foreground of the stories as the characters stuggle with their own  ethical isssues. Despite the fact that we as a human race can be sordid,  the collection as a whole points out that we are redeemable and can display  the best of ourselves.      Laugh, cry, become shocked and fearful as you  enter the complexities of humanity through the eyes of Singer. No  collection of his is complete without this book.	2000-07-18
US	50703543	RRDHUR3K61DWL	080504891X	495669330	Writing Your Dissertation in Fifteen Minutes a Day: A Guide to Starting, Revising, and Finishing Your Doctoral Thesis	Books	5	156	173	N	N	START NOW	When I first saw the book a strong urge came over me to get it. My inner critic said, what for? You're not a Phd candidate. Sure, you're writing a paper for a masters program but it isn't the same as a dissertation. Don't  waste your money.<br />     The argument was sound but the book's call was  much stronger. I purchased it. It was the best investment that I had made.  Whether you are a Phd candidate trying to get your dissertation done or a  wannabe intimidated by the thought of having to write one, this book must  be on your required reading list!<br />     If you have successfully completed  high school, college and graduate school (masters level) then you have  already written your fair share of papers. You have the technical and  disciplined skills to write. Well then, what is the problem in doing a  dissertation?<br />     Bolker teaches one about learning how to develop a  process of writing that is best for you. Once done she moves you from the  process to the basic mechanics of getting the dissertation done. It is  never to late in getting a head start on learning how to finish your  doctoral thesis even before you are accepted into a Phd program. Start Now!  The book is a tremendous stimulator.	2000-07-16
US	50703543	R37VZQVLDDJC6J	1573241415	927282607	The 12 Secrets of Highly Creative Women: A Portable Mentor	Books	5	40	42	N	N	A SUCCULENT FEAST FOR CREATIVITY	A fine meal requires the diner to slowy savor and digest the contents in order to appreciate the wonderful experience it brings. Such is the case with 12 Secrets. You must slowly digest, savor and absorb the fine insights  it brings to nourish your dormant creativity.<br />     Creativity is the  vital lifeblood of women which too often is surpressed by our inner critics  and outside influences. Regaining that vital force in our lives is the key  to fully engage the unlimited possibilities set before us.<br />     Enter  Gail's three doorways which unfold the secrets we need to begin our  creative venture. At the end of each chapter questions are presented to  enable us to unfold the specifics of what holds our creativity back.  Throughout the book interviews are shared about other successful women who  had to go through a similar process to awaken their creative powers.<br />      12 Secrets is a gentle mentor that raises women's consciousness and  encourages them along the way. I couldn't put it down and neither will you  when you have this resource in your hands.	2000-07-16
US	50703543	R16D2QBMF4QBV8	0800620410	286351976	To Love as God Loves	Books	5	24	26	N	N	IMITATION OF GOD'S LOVE	Contemporary christians find themselves in a secular culture that demands their allegiance and conformity. As a people of faith, they find themselves capture in culture which eventually lead to the erosion and compromise of  their beliefs. How does one deal with this struggle? Is it possible to love  as god loves by breaking away from those cultural mores that we find most  dear? Bondi addresses those questions and more as she leads us into a  conversation with the early monastic who had similar challenges.<br />     To  truly love as God means incorporating a new definition of love and humility  that goes beyond our present secular understanding. A dialogue with the  Desert fathers and mothers enables us to weed out those stumbling blocks  which hinder us from loving ourselves, our neighbors and our God. This text  serves as a key of understanding how God loves and how we can imitate that  love.	2000-07-15
US	50703543	RAOEXWPLIB7RM	0664255485	14397974	Soul Feast : An Invitation to the Christian Spiritual Life	Books	5	41	45	N	N	SPIRITUAL PRACTICE	Countless books have been written on Christian spirituality from a theological, intellectual and historical perspective. All of them have strengths which deepens our appreciation of spirituality. Spirituality,  however, is to be lived and practiced in the lives of believers. Thus these  books fall short in emphasizing spiritual practice. Soul Feast corrects  this by inviting the reader to enter the spiritual through the practice of  the spiritual disciplines. It is through these disciplines that we can live  out a spiritual life. This is a balanced text which thouroughly integrates  theory and practice with a greater emphasis on the latter.       Protestants, whose background doesn't include the spiritual discipline will  be greatful in rediscovering them. Spiritual direction and hospitality are  just a few of them discussed in this valuable work.	2000-07-15
US	50703543	R2VV1G7SGQN9V3	0806626402	798559770	Thirsty for God: A Brief History of Christian Spirituality	Books	5	26	26	N	N	YOUR THIRST IS OVER	If you are thirsting for a comprehensive and historical overview of christian spirituality then this book is for you. Thirsty for God is a concise traveler's guide into the history of Christian spirituality. It  examines the expression of spirituality in the Orthodox, Roman Catholic and  Protestant traditions and is inclusive of Christian spirituality's  expressions from non-western cultures.<br />     The text is accessibile to  the reader. It is free from theological jargon and enables you to engage  the ideas. Holt asserts that spirituality is to be lived. In looking at the  richness of these varied traditions you can a better appreciation of the  faith. Holt also suggests that we need a spirituality that addresses our  times and is free from the distortions from previous generations. Enjoy  this great work which will certainly quench your spiritual thirst.	2000-07-15
US	50703543	R2BMKR7MHK7C4T	0345335988	658087168	Every Goy's Guide to Common Jewish Expressions	Books	5	2	3	N	N	YIDDISHLY CORRECT	Have you been around Jewish friends and don't know what theyare talking about? Are you Jewish among Jewish friends and haven't aclue as to what is going on? Calm your anxieties. You too can become yiddishly correct. In today's world it is essential to know key terms in order to communicate with people of varied ethnic groups. What Clinton did for politics (politically correct) you can do in social circles with your Jewish colleagues.<br /> Naiman provides one with over 500 words and expressions common in Jewish culture. He also provides a key for spelling and pronunciation. Learn how to properly spell smuck or is it schmuck? If you can't pronounce kosher you certainly need a course in yiddish. This book is informative and funny but most of all it gives one an appreciation of the language and the enriching culture from which it sprung.	2000-07-14
US	50703543	R22O4VOF5DWWDV	0826410766	998848837	Spiritual Advice for Buddhists and Christians	Books	5	8	8	N	N	SOUND ADVICE	Dialogue is key in fostering mutual understanding with those of different religious faith groups. Such an encounter occured during the 1996 Gethsemani Encounter where Buddhist and Christian monks engaged one another  on topics regarding the spiritual life.<br />     Out of that context came  this book which contains talks that His Holiness the Dalai Lama made  concerning Tibetan Buddhist spirituality. The depth and breadth of his talk  applied to both groups. Although his talks were of course grounded in  Buddhism the advice given transcends mere sectarian concerns.<br />     His  Holiness is concerned about the daily practice of all spiritual seekers and  gives pointers as to how one can be effective in one's practice through  meditation, fostering a solid teacher-student relationship, the role of  community in the spiritual life and the stages of spiritual growth.<br />      I would highly recommend this gem to those who are interested in fostering  an inter-religious dialogue with non-Christian groups and for those who  desire to strengthen their own spiritual journey. Spirituality know no  sectarian boundaries.	2000-07-14
US	50703543	R2O4PJ1LWUQM0S	188184708X	731405880	Finding Freedom: Writings from Death Row	Books	5	23	25	N	N	BUDDHA VISITS DEATH ROW	Faith is known as a powerful force to enable one to overcome emotional and psychological barriers that would deny their humanity. Jarvis Masters shares with us his spiritual transformation in a setting that is life  denying. His poignant stories gives one insight on the culture of prison  life on death row.<br />     Of particular interest is Jarvis himself. He is  an incarcerated Black man whose embracing of Vyrayana Buddhism has enabled  him to move beyond the violence of prison life. Usually American Buddhism  is associated with a white intellectual elite group which appears to ignore  the sufferings of those incarcerated. Islam has been known as the religion  of choice for jailed Black men while Christianity has provided religious  solace and comfort to those imprisoned.<br />     Buddha's visit to death row  and Jarvis offers a new view of Buddhism. It has broken through its chains  of exclusivisity and has offered those who are incarcerated the hope of  finding freedom in the worst of circumstances. Jarvis' sharing of his  practice of Buddhism is a testament to the great power of a faith to make a  difference in one's life. This is a book to be read by all people  interested in the transformative power of religion in today's prisons.	2000-07-12
US	50703543	R2WSZN2OJEA5PI	1555533299	80114521	Loving Her (Northeastern Library of Black Literature)	Books	3	7	11	N	N	A FAILED CLASSIC	Enter into a world where women are men's objects for sexual desire and exploitation. Renay, a gifted and artistic woman decides to leave this world of abuse. Leaving with her young daughter she goes into the sanctuary  of her lover for safety and wholeness.<br />     The trials and tribulations  that she endures is the essence of this novel coupled with her own unique  background. For you see, Renay is Black and a lesbian. Her lover, Terry is  white. Two lesbians of different backgrounds and races defy the sexual and  racial mores of their time. What a wonderful tale full of possibilities.<br />      Those possibilities never blossom. All of the characters are  predictable in their dialogue and come across as one dimensional. Renay's  spurned husband is the stereotypical misoganist with a deep hatred for  lesbians. Renay come across as a passive woman needing to find salvation in  her white lover's sanctum. Even Terry's love making with Renay comes across  as a mechanical exercise in exploring new sexual techniques.<br />     This  novel had the seeds within it to explore the relationships of interracial  lesbian couples. Instead, it comes across as a boring tome guarenteed to  put anyone to sleep. It is a failed classic that could have offered so much  more.	2000-07-12
US	50703543	R2CCW5JCEEB1PD	002922411X	943827647	Strength for the Fight: A History of Black Americans in the Military	Books	5	3	4	N	N	PRESS ON	America's military has always touted itself as being the bastion of equal opportunity for Blacks. Just how true is this assertion? What exactly has been the military's attitude towards Blacks?<br />     Strength for the Fight,  a comprehensive history of Blacks in the military, examines the historical  record and forces one to rethink the military's so-called benevolence to  Blacks. Nalty's work brings up several facts regarding America's attitude  in having Blacks serve in the military.<br />     1. America never wanted to  arm Blacks no matter how patriotic they were. Of course slavery and the  possibility of insurrection played into their fears of having Blacks in the  military.<br />     2. Blacks serving in the military were there because of  expedientcy not because they were willingly welcomed as equal partners.<br />      3. Military icons thought Blacks were inferior soldiers and did their  best to keep them in segregated units.<br />     Those and other insights give  you the tools to evaluate both the good and bad that the military has  placed on Blacks. Everyone should remember that the military is a mirror  image of the majority society. It changes out of necessity not because it  needs to do the right thing.      Nalty corrects the one sided view  concerning  the benevolence of the military and also gives the rich history  of those who fought for America's freedom even when they themselves were  not free. The major fault one can find in his work is a paucity of  information regarding Black women in the military. Other than that this is  an outstanding work which should be read by all ROTC cadets and leaders  serving in the military. Pressing on inspite of the indignities layed on  Black military men and women is the rich heritage that they pass on to  future generations.	2000-07-11
US	50703543	R2WBVKVQI2IEYJ	0941968065	606407745	Intuition: How To Use it In Your Life	Books	4	3	3	N	N	YOUR SIXTH SENSE	Have you ever had a hunch or gut feeling about something that later came to pass? Whether you accept it or not you are probably using your sixth sense commonly know as intuition. Simply defined, intuition is the ability  of having knowledge or insight without having any logical evidence to  confirm the information.<br />     The ability to utilize this powerful gift  in various areas of your life is the focus of this work. Our normal five  senses are limited in that they can tell us about what is going on in the  physical world. Intuition surpasses these senses and offers an unlimited  opportunity to help you grow and expand your life.<br />     Part I of this  work concentrates on understanding the basic fundamentals of what intuition  is and how it manifests itself. Part II concentrates on the practical  application of intuition in various areas of your life such as career,  health and family. Taken together both parts enable you to become more  conscious of a natural ability that has lain dormant.<br />     Why bother to  read this book or learn about intuition? For too long we have been told to  reject its use thus limiting our abilities to enhance various areas in our  lives. More and more business persons and professionals are recognizing the  importance of this ability in making decisions in their business. Learning  about intuition enables one to utilize your full senses.<br />     Fisher's  work is readable and its exercises are very easy to use. He gives examples  of individuals from varied backgrounds who have made use of the gift. By  all means make this your introduction into the world of intuition studies  and utilize the exercises for your benefit.	2000-07-11
US	50703543	R4MVS3OBA9TZM	0380766329	142956176	Growing Up Black	Books	5	12	13	N	N	AFRICA'S GIFT TO AMERICA	Of all of the so-called minority groups in the United States, African Americans occupy a special place. They were brought over to America as slaves and attempts were made to deny their humanity, strip them of their  culture and rob them of their souls. It didn't work. Not only did the  Africans survive but they thrived and gifted America with its own unique  culture.<br />     Growing Up Black is the story of the childhoods of those  African progeny who survived the sordid racial hatred of America. Unlike  other books in this series, this text is exclusively non-fiction and culls  the works from the authors' autobiographical memoirs. The young people  represented (now old) are a diverse group from the 19th and 20th  centuries.<br />     Learn about what it feels like to be called a  &quot;nigger&quot; as a child and going home to get an explanation from  your parents. Walk through a mob to attempt to integrate a school which  would deny you your education. Experience being a light skin Black who can  melt into the white majority culture. These are the varied experiences of  these young people who show courage, great tenacity and creativity in  growing up in a land which would deny them their humanity. Read about these  young people for they point to hope for our future.	2000-07-10
US	50703543	R1XM2SKULCSY4	019509784X	311246959	Amazing Grace: A Life of Beauford Delaney	Books	5	9	9	N	N	SAVED BY GRACE?	America's artistic milieu is known for dismissing from its memory those artists whose works and lives are deemed trivial and not worthy of consideration. Such an attitude has denied younger generations of artists  the experience of knowing some of the great artistic man and women of our  time. Beauford Delaney was one of those artists relegated to the halls of  obscurity.<br />     Amazing Grace is David Leemings biographical piece that  examines Delaney's life and contributions to the art world. He looks at the  forces which brought forth America's premiere modernist artist and shows  how his gift impacted on the way one views life and art.<br />     Who is this  man, Delaney? A superficial view of his life reveals him as an impoverished  homosexual Black artist who is plagued by many demons as he struggles to  find himself as an artist and at peace with his sexuality. James Baldwin  called him his spiritual father who was a cross between Brer Rabbit and St.  Francis of Asissi. Others knew him as the good negro or an eccentric  gadfly. Whatever one may call him, Delaney's goal was to infuse the concept  of love within his work that would bring him the wholeness that he failed  to capture in his life.<br />     Plagued by paranoia, alcoholism and guilt  over his homosexuality, Delaney failed to achieve intimacy in his  relationships but poured out his inner struggle through his art. Like many  artists, he went through several stages of development in his career which  reached its climax in France. Unfortunately the demon of paranoia stripped  him of his artistic ability in his later years.<br />     This book must be  read to get a handle on the artistic struggles of African Americans and how  they succeeded inspite of their alienation from the mainstream art world.  Delaney also struggled with being homosexual which undoubtably alienated  him from his family and Black colleagues. His struggle opens up a new  chapter in examining how sexuality impacts on a minorityartists life.  Delaney was saved from obscurity through this view of his life. Whether he  was saved by grace is a moot point for his demonic voices did him in.	2000-07-08
US	50703543	RM88HHY0YT878	1573241482	276167826	Community of Kindness: Reconnecting to Friends, Family, and the World Through the Power of Kindess	Books	4	3	4	N	N	RECLAIMING OUR TIES	For many of us community appears as an illusive dream. Although we are born into and nurtured by a community, our present culture has disconnected us from our roots. We've become anonymous denizens of materialism divorced  from one another.<br />     The Community of Kindness enables us to break free  of the sense of alienation from community. This compact little book  contains brief viginettes of a cross section of people sharing their  stories of building community. It provides a road map in enabling us to  reclaim and restore our ties with one another.<br />     This isn't a work of  nostalgia or a tome about people doing superhuman tasks in forming  community. Ordinary people have taken small steps to help affirm one  another as caring individuals. On reading this book your faith in the  goodness of humanity will be restored. Enjoy the stories. Laugh, cry but  most of all remember community can be restored but it begins with you.  Reclaim and affirm your community.	2000-07-07
US	50703543	R2C9FYK64PB79P	0060952431	120015236	Creating a Life Worth Living	Books	5	80	81	N	N	FOR NON-ARTISTS TOO	At first glance I shied away from the book. After all, it clearly is a specialized text for artists only! How wrong I was.&quot; Creating a Life Worth Living &quot;addresses the need of both artists and non-artists to  search for a creative life and maintain it. The concepts, exercises and  techniques shared in its pages speaks to the unactualized creativity  embeded in our souls. Of course the text is focused on artists (broadly  used term) but the imparted information can be used by people in all fields  of endeavors.<br />     I found three areas of information especially helpful  to the non-artist. First, you are provided with mini-profiles and  interviews of artists ( in varied fields) sharing their journey of success.  Their stories put in perspective that one must struggle and stay  disciplined in your field. Second, the author develops artistic profiles to  enable a person to identify their inherent artistic style of creativity.  The profile is almost an echo of the Myers Briggs Type Indicator profile  only this time geared for artists. Such a profile helps an artist to  capitalize on their strengths. Third, jobs are identified that can support  or undermine your creativity. The pros and cons are discussed to enable you  to make the best out of your long term artistic goal. No matter how  creative you are certain material needs have to be met (ie, drudgery job)  in order to live and fill your artistic goal.<br />     Lloyd's book is an  excellent manual on how to live out and actualize your creative spirit  regardless of what field you choose. Your dreams will become a reality  through planning, research, imagination and putting your plan into action.	2000-07-02
US	50703543	RNIXVXWTMSH3S	0873512022	527435824	A Choice of Weapons	Books	5	20	22	N	N	THE CHOICE IS YOURS	Originally published in 1966, Parks'first autobiography is a classic testament of a young man &quot;coming of age&quot; in an environment in which the odds were against him. Parks was poor, Black and considered  uneducated by the standards of his day. No doubt he was destined for jail  or death. He escaped both fates and went on to become the premiere  photographer of the 20th century as well as a composer, writer, director  and artist.<br />     How was he able to do this given the hostile world in  which he was bequeathed? Parks had a number of choices which were presented  to him throughout his lifetime. The way he responded to those choices made  all the difference from him becoming another statistic. His story is one of  a teenager struggling to define himself as a man and to carve out a  vocation in life which will make a difference to the world. This is not a  story about pulling oneself up by your own bootstraps. Gordon was given the  choice of using a knife to rob a porter. The result could have been jail.  As an adult, Gordon was given a choice of using a gun on some bigots while  being threatened by them while out on an assignment. He came to a close  call in making the wrong choice.<br />     So what is it about Parks' life in  those tender years that enabled him to overcome those varied temptations?  Clues present themselves in various ways. He found his passion  (photography). Opportunities came his way and he capitalized on them. He  continued being curious about the world. Most of all, through the teachings  of his parents, he developed the gift of not allowing the bitterness of the  world to poison the great potential that was innate in his soul.<br />     Any  young person trying to come to terms within themselves need to journey with  young Parks. Those of us who are old and have allowed the bitterness of  this world to impact upon us need to take a look at this remarkable human  being who conquered it through his choice of weapons and made a lasting  difference. I highly recommend the reading of this book along with his  other two autobiographical works, &quot;To Smile in Autumn&quot;, and  &quot;Voices in the Mirror&quot;. Oh and don't forget his classic  autobiographical novel, &quot;The Learning Tree&quot;. Remember that the  choice is yours as we deal with life	2000-06-30
US	50703543	R1TA1YQ7CXOUKR	0471357324	308278695	On Giants' Shoulders: Great Scientists and Their Discoveries From Archimedes to DNA	Books	4	1	1	N	N	SCIENCE COMES ALIVE	Science is a subject filled with theories, facts, mathematical abstractions and other obtuse ideas that bore adults and puts average students to sleep in their science class. One encounter with Bragg's  exploration of the greatest minds in the history of science totally changes  that viewpoint. Science and those who contributed to it are not boring.  Under Bragg's meticulous care, science comes ALIVE.<br />     Bragg profiles  twelve scientific figures whose genius have altered and impacted on the way  we view our world. Archimedes, Newton, Farraday and Freud are just a few of  the characters whose lives and works are described for us in the text. On  reading about them we come across people who are fallable, arrogant,  eccentric, charitable and somewhat dull. In other words they share all the  foibles of humanity. Yet these individuals built for us a foundation in  which we have become the inheritors of the marvels of science.<br />      Bragg's doesn't bogg you down in the myraid details and theories of each  person's contribution. He puts them in the context of their times, shows  why their discovery was so significant and engages them as human beings. He  further invites contemporary scientists to debate the merits of each  historical character. From their debate we are forced to rethink about  whether the person's idea/thought was original or merely the result of the  collaboration of others. Such a discussion alone is ripe for new ideas on  how we view science.<br />     Bragg does have some faults. Except for Marie  Curie there is an absence of women in his treatsie. Science is also deemed  an exclusive enclave of the western world. In his chapter concerning where  we are know scientists from the non-western world are not included in the  discussion. Hopefully these faults will be corrected in his future text on  this subject. Other than that this book is a good stimulator for both young  and old people who have been turned off by science. It gives science ahuman face and makes those scientifical foundations (which we take for  granted)understandable.	2000-06-27
US	50703543	R1RM6EVEOUFVWF	0380724197	516960216	Growing Up Chicana/o	Books	4	16	17	N	N	LAS CHICANAS, LOS CHICANOS	Well over eighteen million Mexican-Americans live in the United States yet their history, literature and culture is conspiculously absent from the educational/social structure of so-called mainstream America. Enter,  Growing Up Chicana/o which explodes the myth of the absence of the  Chicana/o voice. Chicana/o is name the children of mestizo heritage  (blending of the original people of the &quot;New World&quot; with the  Spanish conquerers) have given themselves in defining who they are as a  people and a growing political entity.      The stories presented in this  volume are unique in speaking to the reader in two voices (English and  Spanish). You hear the story in English but the underlying tone and  richness is Spanish. The interweaving of autobiography with fiction is a  remarkable art which gives the reader an understanding of Chicana/o  culture.      Gerald Haslam's story, &quot;The Horned Toad&quot;, centers  around the relationship of an English speaking boy and his Spanish speaking  Grandmother. The interplay of these two individuals shows the tensions of  two worlds, two languages. Alicia Gaspar de Albar explores her cultural  schizophrena through her story of a teenage Chicana coming to terms with  her lesbianism.      These and other stories explore the vast richness of a  people who have had a great impact upon the United States. This text is  both an introduction to Chicana/o life and literature as well as a  challenge for the so-called mainstream to pay attention to this significant  group. Mexican-Americans are no longer geographically confined to the west  and southwest. Their migration to other states have caused school systems  and politicians to take notice. This book woul be a valuable resource for  educators to read, understand, and value Chicana/o culture and incorporate  it into their curriculums.	2000-06-25
US	50703543	R7GB5P1WYVY0U	0385492863	47174087	The Divine Hours: Prayers for Summertime--A Manual for Prayer (v. 1)	Books	3	13	30	N	N	FAIR BUT CUMBERSOME	I was very enthusiastic when I came across Tickle's manual for prayer. Over the years I had explored many prayer books none of which held my attention. Then &quot;The Divine Hours&quot; came to my view and I thought  my quest was over. Alas, I was sorely disappointed. The Divine Hours is a  somewhat good manual for those starting out in attempting fixed prayer.  Unfortunately I found its use problematic when it divorced itself from the  liturgical year. I was surprised about the absense of inclusive language  and the small number of women's works, prayers and hymns that were not  included in the text. I don't call myself a purist when it somes to prayer  books but I feel the author could have done a better job in being more  balanced with the prayers (traditional as well as modern) and following the  liturgical year. This is one more prayer book to keep as a resource guide  in your theological library.	2000-06-25
US	50703543	RPL8CBJ5MN6BQ	0380795531	34257490	Looking for Lost Bird: A Jewish Woman Discovers Her Navajo Roots	Books	4	9	11	N	N	CAPTURED BY ALIENS	Imagine yourself a baby captured by aliens who smuggle you off to another planet. While there, you are adopted by an alien couple and indoctrinated into their cultural mores. You are truly an alien. Suddenly, as a teenager  your alien mother dies. Distraught over his loss, your alien father takes  his grief out on you and begins his process of rejecting you. Many years  later you discover that you're not an alien and are not from their planet.  SURPRISE!             Such a story is a product of an imagination  run wild or a scene out of science fiction. If only that was true. Yvette  Melanson  was that infant (Navajo) and the aliens were a Jewish couple  desperate to have children. Thus begins the saga of a woman raised as a Jew  who is now reclaiming her newly discovered Navajo family. Hers is the story  of Native children taken away from their families to be indoctrinated into  another culture.         Yvette's story raises poignant questions regarding  trans-cultural and trans-racial adoptions. All to often the adoption  business becomes a trafficking in illegal babies particularly those from  overseas and other cultures. Those individuals who have a great desire for  a child will pay any price to have one. Their desire brings forth a  trafficking in a new type of slave trade this time with babies. After all,   who cares if these infants birth parents wanted them? If you have the  money, you can have anything.<br />     Looking for Lost Bird also raises some  emotional and psychological questions for the child who is adopted and  given a new identity. For example, what makes you who you are? Culture?  Religion? Race? Yvette was raised Jewish. Can she be anything else but  Jewish regardless of her Navajo origins? Let us not forget the emotional  questions. How much did the anquish of Yvette's birthmother contribute to  her early demise and relationship to her other children? What resentment  did Yvette's adoptive father harbor against her when his wife died?<br />Fortunately, Yvette was able to find her Navajo family and began the  process of reintergrating herself back into her original culture. Whether  she is able to do this comfortably is her greatest challenge in her  tumultuous life. This book is a must read for those thinking about cross  cultural or racial adoptions, the ethics of the international &quot;baby  adoptions&quot;, and the ability to recover a lost identity.	2000-06-25
US	50703543	R1OLL0SO5SVJ2S	0380724170	457227186	Growing Up Native Americ	Books	5	19	20	N	N	ORIGINAL VOICES	What is it like to grow up as a stranger in your own land? Of all of the emigrant groups which came to the &quot;New World&quot;, those who were already here experienced their country being conquered and their way of  life almost destroyed. All to often their stories were dismissed, forgotten  or seen as exotic curiosities for the anthropologists. Riley's collection  of 22 Native American writers gives voice to a group whose lives show a  spirit of survival and dignity in the midst of being a  &quot;conquered&quot; people in their own land.      Using excerpts from  novels, memoirs, essays and autobiographies we are given a wide range of  different experiences from the people who were here before there was an  America. Growing Up Native American introduces us to the various native  peoples of this continent. Through those various genres, we receive a bit  of insight as to what they had to endure as they grew up in a hostile land.   This collection of stories spans from the 19th to the 20th centuries.       Growing Up Native American is an excellent text for intoducing one to  Native American history,literature, culture and Native-American authors.  You immediately are transported through time with the authors and  characters. You identify with their challenges and triumphs. The book is  not just a collection of tragedy. You are introduced to laughter, jokes,  lifestyles and the joys of being a young person. I would highly recommend  this book to those of us who are ignorant about the Orignal Voices who  inhabited this land	2000-06-24
US	50703543	R176JM484FU0K7	0380730197	464855382	Growing Up Jewish	Books	4	4	4	N	N	KEEPING MEMORIES ALIVE	Avon Books has produced another gem in its &quot;Growing Up&quot; series this time focusing on a minority religious group that has had an overwhelming impact on American and European cultures. Growing Up Jewish  tells the story from the perspective of twenty-five Jewish writers who  share with us their early memories of coming of age in America. Each author  celebrates their heritage through fictional stories, essays and  autobiographies.      Why, one might ask, do we need another book about  Jewish life in America? After all, isn't there an abundance of material on  the subject? Haven't they assimilated themselves into the American  landscape to the point of being no different from their gentile  counter-parts? Although the above question are pertinent they miss the  point. A people ceases to exist when the stories and memories are forgotten  from one generation to another. Growing Up gives the reader a snapshot of  these rich memories of young people as immigrants, conflicts with their  religious practices from the old country, prejudices from their gentile  communities and other challenges which calls into question what it means to  be Jewish in America. The sharing of these stories brings with it clarity  for some and even more questions for others. This is a must read book for  those wanting to re-aquaint themselves with their Jewish heritage as well  as a great literary resource of the finest Jewish writers in America.  Keeping memories alive is even more important as we enter an age where  memory is denied ( the Holocaust never happened), assimilation has dulled  cultural and religious recall and antisemitism once again rears its ugly  head.	2000-06-24
US	50703543	RL848QC62E41I	0684849909	635785666	Managing a Nonprofit Organization in the Twenty-First Century	Books	5	97	100	N	N	TAKE HEED NON-PROFITS	For anyone considering going into the non-profit field as a manager or thinking about starting a non-profit organization, &quot; Managing A Non-Profit Organization in the Twenty-first Century&quot; must be on their  required reading list. Non-profits are organizations which sit in between  the  profit and public sectors. Such an organization requires a different  type of management style. Thomas Wolf takes the mystery out of the  management of non-profits and clearly shows how they must be organized and  adaptable to the changing environment of public need.      Wolf's text  serves as a standard as to what a non-profit should be and how it can avoid  various pitfalls. For example, corporations have went through the period of  downsizing. Many non-profits have not followed the lead and have ended up  duplicating programs that are no longer needed and have caused stagnation  in the organization. Non-profits have also come to the point where they no  longer serve the need for which they were originally founded but are unable  to effectively go out of business. Those above examples are some of the  many issues addressed in the text. If you are ignorant about the nuts and  organizational bolts of non-profits this is the book for you. Are you  trying to start a non-profit organization? If so Wolf's work sets out the  guidelines which will help ease your initial attempts. Is your non-profit  becoming a dysfunctional entity? If so, the text provides you with the  diagnostic tools to get to the source of the problem. I highly recommend  this book to everyone who wants to get a basic understanding of the  non-profit sector.	2000-06-19
US	50703543	R2YZ33O83IGRYE	0380976501	398069025	And Still We Rise: The Trials and Triumphs of Twelve Gifted Inner-city High School Students	Books	5	29	31	N	N	RISE BEFORE YOU DROWN	Nothing good can come out of a ghetto school especially one in South Central Los Angeles. If you believe in that statement then Miles Corwin's &quot;And Still We Rise&quot; will shatter your stereotype of the typical  high school ghetto students. Corwin chronicles the lives of twelve  exceptional high school students during the school year of 1996-1997. We  are taken on a journey in the lives of these young people who battle gang  violence, abuse, homelessness, and full time work to become great academic  achievers in their high school.      Corwin raises some pertinent questions  that we need to consider. Why for example, are few advance placement  classes offered in poor communties and inner city schools? Why are school  administrators and teachers are allowed to play their petty political games  at the expense of the students? Does the death of Affirmative Action mean  the future absence of minority students in our nations' colleges and  universities? Why are we willing to write off the education of our students  simply because of their race and their economic conditions?      The fact  that these young people were able to rise above the conditions placed upon  them is a testament to the human spirit's tenacity. How many more are there  that need a boost to rise above those limitations that even adults find  disconcerting?      I enjoyed Corwin's text because it showed even in the  worst of circumstances there is hope and it is a clarion call for us to  become more active in the school system. Most of all it allowed us to get a  brief glimpse of the lives of these inspirational young people. I highly  recommend this book as a text not only for inspiration but for intervention  in a system that fails its students.	2000-05-26
US	50703543	R1AFLDZQN6PN5D	0380724189	165599286	Growing Up Asian American	Books	4	25	27	N	N	SILENT MINORITY	In this world of multi-culturalism one group's voice is seldom heard and their contributions to America have not been acknowledged. Growing Up Asian American by Maria Hong gives a voice to this &quot;silent minority&quot;  whose presence on the American scene has been virtually ignored.       Growing up Asian-American tells their story through a collection of fiction  and non-fiction pieces. Asian-Americans represent a diverse group of people  who had a great impact on American life. Frank Chin (Chinese) presents a  short story about the building of the transcontinental railroad by the  Chinese in the 1860's. Jeanne Wakatsuki-Houston (Japanese) reveals to us  her experience of being uprooted from her home in Inglewood, CA and sent to  an internment camp. Her experience reveals the racist hysteria prevelant  during World War II that extended itself to Japanese-Americans. Mary Paik  Lee decribes her isolation in the early part of the 20th century (1910) as  being one of the few Koreans in the  Asian American community.      This is  an excellent text for those who are not familiar with Asian-American  culture. It introduces us to those hidden facts of history about a people  who have been ignored. The only criticism that can be said of the text is  that it doesn't include anyone from Viet Nam, the Phillippines or Pacific  Islanders depending on how one defines Asian. I highly recommend this book  as an introductory text for learning about Asian-American culture in  general and writers in particular.	2000-04-06
US	50703543	R3T9XFX0SUMI11	068483412X	405472642	The Provincials	Books	4	28	29	N	N	Southern, Jewish and Proud of It	To say that you are a southern Jew may sound like a contradiction in terms. After all, Jewish culture and life is demoniated by the historic enclaves of the urban north. Eli Evans' book, The Provencials breaks that  stereotype by telling the story of the south's Jewish population whose very  presence made an impact on a region that is so misunderstood by its  northern cousins.      Evans describes for us the challenges and triumphs  of growing up Jewish in a southern culture. Like their southern gentile  counterparts Jews in the south share a deep rooted southern soul and  culture which embeds itself into one's psyche. Although the south harbors  within it painful memories for Jews ( Leo Frank lynching of 1915), overall  the community managed to survive and thrive. Jewish communities in many  instances took on the same cultural charistics of the southern gentile but  there was always that sense of being the outsider that made the community a  distinct entity.   Evans skillfully weaves his own autobiography of growing  up Jewish in the Bible Belt with the stories of the regions' people and  various events that impacted upon the Jewish community. I throughly enjoyed  reading about the peddlers who went throughout the rural south bringing  with them not only merchandise but news from the larger communities.       The book shows the struggles Jews had in building communities, establishing  synagogues, and balancing the racial tensions of the majority culture. This  book is a must read for those unfamiliar with the Jewish presence in the  south.	2000-01-04
US	50703543	R26GCY4YB5H3X8	0393039897	853235633	Black Intellectuals: Race and Responsibility in American Life	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Black Intellectual Journey	Black Intellectuals by William Banks is a landmark text in describing the history, development, paradoxes and challenges of being a Black intellectual in the United States. Banks has illuminated the historical and  cultural factors which gave rise to such men and women in an environment  which denied them their humanity.      I enjoyed learning about  African-Americans (known and unknown) whose intellectual output critiqued  and challenged both white and black cultures. It was very helpful to see  how these men and women stood their ground in telling it like it is  regardless of whom may disagree.      Even though I enjoyed the work, I  found several weaknesses. First, there was a paucity of information  regarding Black women and their contributions in the intellectual realm.  Some are mentioned by name and pictures are shown of them but there appears  to be no serious consideration given to their thoughts. Second, Banks' text  was weak in dealing with the co-opting of Black intellectual thought in  white institutions. Third, Banks puts too much emphasis on those in  academia as being the &quot;intellectuals&quot;. He fails to examine those  who are independent intellectuals  in their own right who have impacted on  the community.     Despite these short comings Banks has given us a book to  serve as food for thought as Black Intellectuals explore their role in the  community as we head for the 21st Century	1999-12-26
