US	50719867	R12CA4BLWKSRJW	0060175869	664906388	From Dawn to Decadence: 1500 to the Present: 500 Years of Western Cultural Life	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Marvellous historical survey of Western culture	The highly reputed historian and scholar, Jacques Barzun, offers a detailed, elegantly written and expansive survey of Western culture from 1500 to 1995. He examines the culture of the West, taking into account the significant and revolutionary political, economic, literary, scientific and artistic developments that have shaped the last five hundred years. His immense exposition includes thought-provoking and punchily-written discussions on Renaissance Italy, the art of Michelangelo nd his contemporaries, the Protestant Reformation, the emergence of modern science, the &quot;New World&quot; the flowering of capitalist enterprise, the Bolshevist Revolution and the wars, catastrophes and revolutions that have wrought such a profound effect on Western thought and sensibility. His treatise is also developed along such themes and individualism and emancipation, as in how he analyses the various historical currents of the West's past and how they promoted, or discouraged, such themes. The book is an enormously pleasurable experience, and is loaded with factual information and told with panache and virtuosity. Barzun, philosophically, stands in the camp of pragmatism: the only criterion of truth, he believes, is efficiency, while politically, he is a conservative, in his unabashed labelling of contemporary civilisation as decadent. (He complains, for instance, of eating in public and knee-torn jeans.) His writing abounds in acute observation, subtle overturnings of popular errors and biases, brilliant apercus and sallies of wit which fly at the reader at the flip of a page. Such names as Liszt, Vico, Mozart, Joyce, Dali, Picasso, William James, Newton, Hegel, Lenin, Luther and many others are included in the cast of his absorbing and sprawling overview. The only shortcoming of the book was the sparse and idiosyncratic, not to mention erratic, system of referencing, but this is the piddling fault that usually comes with excess of erudition.	2001-09-17
US	50719867	RWROU7S5G5SXF	0805819746	241538130	The Antisocial Personalities	Books	5	62	70	N	N	Absorbing study of antisocial dysfunction	David T. Lykken, in his highly absorbing and comprehensive exposition, attempts to define the various types of antisocial dysfunction. Although he also takes into account behaviourist and biologistic explanations of the origin of antisocial disorder (such as frontal-lobe brain disorder and the low Serotonin hypothesis), his main argument is that sociopathy is principally a result of inadequate parenting and poor socialisation. He justifies this assertion by quoting statistics which prove that the majority of fearless, aggressive, manipulative impulsive criminals with low I.Q. and little sense of commitment towards jobs, family or others -- (those who are responsible for raising America's crime rate) -- are mainly the result of being brought up in often single-parent households, or else reared by incompetent parents. This leads to delinquency in early youth, as the potential young offender finds no sense of discipline or authority at home, thereby gravitating towards dubious peer groups, such as gangs, who are usually presided upon by older, more mainipulative, though no less intelligent, gangleaders. Lykken also offers some engrossing insights on the possibility of a genetic component in fluencing psychopathic behaviour, leading him to devote several chapters on the hereditability of crime, a topic that has remained highly controversial in criminological circles since Lombroso. Though he denies the existence of a precise gene for \\"criminality\\", thus avoiding the untenable view that criminals consititute a fixed \\"type\\", he argues that genetics do indeed predispose certain individuals towards psychopathic and sociopathic activity. They may, for instance, be more venturesome, more aggressive, more competitive, more egoistic and more impulsive than other children, though these susceptibilities can only develop into criminality due to environmental inputs: - which, as Lykken claimed, are related to inadequate socialisation and defective parenting styles. His chapter on the relationship between race and criminality -- (in view of the black minority's disproportionate responsibility for over half of America's crimes) -- is evenly and impartially argued. Lykken charges that the same genes, given differing environmental conditioning, can be responsible for breeding either a criminal psychopath or a zealous crime-fighter, and he substantiates this claim by quoting a number of twin studies. Lykken's recommendations on the prevention of sociopathy are controversial. He believes that prevention is far better than the cure, and calls for much needed tax-payer funding for licensed \\"parenters\\" to become the wards of parentless or potentially delinquent children. Otherwise, he contends that the majority of psychopathic personalities are incurable, and the only solution would be \\"biological-prophylactic\\" legislation...	2001-09-05
US	50719867	R4W4IM9Z6RQ89	096503240X	153802341	Lustmord: The Writings and Artifacts of Murderers	Books	4	9	11	N	N	The fine art of murder	This compilation of extracts includes the scribblings, poems, memoirs, short stories, confessions and observations of real-life &quot;pleasure-killers&quot; or &quot;lustmurderers&quot;. They range from the writings of killers who are sometimes professional writers, to the barely articulate and even the semi-literate. In a way that easily surpasses the best of what &quot;sane&quot; literature has produced in an attempt to approximate the bestiality of crime, these documents are authentic descriptions of the violence, revenge, celebrity and anti-social dysfunction reaped by modern murderers. What makes this collection unique is that it magnifies what can be called &quot;the fine art of murder&quot;, in delineating the &quot;artistic&quot; side of killing. In treating their atrocities and crimes in the spirit of literature, these killers, who comprise rapists, mutilators, cannibals and serial psychopaths, emphasise the act of murder considered for its decidedly &quot;aesthetic&quot; component, if one chooses to adopt this term as a synonym for the natural, the realistic, the sublime, or any term that otherwise serves to designate what moves us deeply. It can be unsettling that such confused, loveless, brutal and genuinely mad individuals can be placed in the category of &quot;creative people&quot;, to share in the qualities that have distinguished true literary personalities: obssession, revolt, anguish, conscientiousness, paranoia, narcissim, even a sense of vision. From a clinical point of view, such literature is immensely rich and rewarding, in not only concretely illustrating various states of &quot;pathology&quot;, but drawing to our attention a form of art that is simultaneously a weapon of psychic insurrection, or a uniquely transformative act of the criminal's stance towards society. Just as much as a deranged criminal a product of civilisation, so is he, in his efforts as an artist, also an attempt to overcome it.	2001-08-24
US	50719867	RYQWTOF792YO	0803270755	362768437	Guerrilla Warfare	Books	3	35	42	N	N	Principles of guerrilla warfare	Part theoretical treatise, part manual for guerilla tactics and strategy, Che Guevara, in his thesis, attempts to provide a formula for the creation and of a small, armed and disciplined guerrilla band which, he believes, would be capable of overthrowing a large organised army. The book is animated by an impassioned desire to whip up a hemispheric socialist revolution in the aftermath of his succesful invasion of Cuba in 1956, in which he, along with Fidel Castro, among others, set the stage for the overthrow of the Batista dictatorship. Guevara discusses the qualities needed by the successful guerrilla warrior, the organisation of the guerrilla band, the methods of indoctrination and training and the tactics that should be employed to guarantee the defeat of large disciplined forces. He stresses the mobility of the guerrilla band, which is a major geographical advantage over large government armies, who are limited to a relatively stationary position due to their bulk. While the enemy loses weapons, the guerrillas retrieve them, thus gaining strength by virtue of the enemy's weakness. He draws attention to the fact that, owing to their increased mobility and flexibility, the guerrillas can remain hidden, while the enemy has no option but to remain exposed. These are precepts of solid value, culled out from Guevara's own experience as organiser of a guerrilla force. His boldest theoretical claim, however, which may be called Marxist-Leninist in its orientation, is the belief that a socialist society can be realised by the peasants, Indians and rural proletariat of Latin America without any of the economic conditions that, as orthodox Marxists insist, are essential for a successful revolution against capitalism. The guerrilla forces, as such, become the vanguard of the revolution. His emphasis on the will, instincts, popular support (and, in a way that was ahead of his time, ethnic consciousness) as the key factors in causing a revolution goes against the tenor of previous Latin American brands of communism, which were more gradualist in character, in seeing that a sufficient economic and industrial base must be in place for any revolution to succeed. The defeatism of various Marxist theoreticians of the time leads Guevara to become increasingly virulent, not only against them, but against American imperialism. In his &quot;Address to the Tricontinental&quot; he condemns American imperialism and insists on causing &quot;two, three, or many Vietnams&quot; in the hope of driving a stake through the heart of American imperialism. However, Che Guevara's voluntarist practice and his theory of internationalist revolution have come to be seen as hopelessly outdated. His &quot;foco&quot; theory of guerrilla warfare has been overtaken by events, after it had disastrously failed to be applied in several Latin American countries. Guevara himself lost his life in 1967, after a failed guerrilla uprising in Bolivia, in which he attempted to put his theory into practice. Another weakness was that Guevara had generalised a very unique experience, -- the invasion of Cuba, -- into a normative standard for any successful insurrection. To many in the present generation, the idea of revolution has itself come to be seen as a dead-end or, at worst, a joke. Nevertheless, Che's life, a shining spark in the era of protest, violence, idealism and revolution, serves as a lesson in when to revolt, in how to refuse to be treated as an outcast and a servant, and in how dedicated a man can be in his struggle against the unjust social order that tyrannically oppresses its most disadvantaged members. It was not Cohn-Bendit, but Che Guevara whom Jean-Paul Sartre called &quot;the most complete man of his time&quot; in his selfless dedication, his courage, his vision and in the Christ-like sacrifice of his own life for the poor and downtrodden in whom he believed.	2001-08-17
US	50719867	RDWKH9COMXFQB	067972110X	260477978	Madness and Civilization: A History of Insanity in the Age of Reason	Books	5	147	158	N	N	The sociology of madness	&quot;Madness and Civilisation&quot;, which was first published in 1959, was the first major work of the cultural critic and maverick structuralist Foucault, and it eloquently and stylishly establishes the main themes, (namely, power, knowledge, confinement) of his later works. Foucault, in his brilliant and forceful exposition, traces the codes or &quot;epistemes&quot; responsible for the shaping of madness from the Reneissance and up to the late nineteenth century. He charts the history of insanity from it being considered as a virtually harmless &quot;wisdom of folly&quot;, to it being considered as a disease in the age of confinement and the psychiatric clinic. Drawing on several imprtant representations of madness in culture, which include the Ship of Fools of Jerome Bosch, and &quot;The Disparates&quot; of Goya, as well as the fates of Van Gogh, Nietzsche, Nerval and Artuad in the modern era, he &quot;deconstructs&quot; the concept of &quot;reason&quot; itself, by placing it in an inverse relation to supposedly &quot;mad&quot; experience. He asks the fundamental, and highly philosophical, question of &quot;what does it mean to be mad, and what is the qualitative distinction between 'sanity' and 'insanity'?&quot; This leads him to make the extraordinary claim that the &quot;pathologisation&quot; of madness, its treatment as a disease, is something approximating a disease of the modern era itself. Madness represents a moment of rupture, whose suppression is an attempt to avoid something mysterious, unseizable and dangerous within our own selves. In his examination of the history of confinement, and the supposed devastation that it has caused, Foucault is not trying (as his critics have alleged) to promote insanity in a bid to transgress social modes and conventional wisdom. Rather, he is attempting nothing else than a sociology of madness, by seeing how it arose in the context of modernity, with its work ethic, industrialisation, and its expansion of business enterprise, imperatives which entailed the exclusion of marginal and supposedly &quot;deviant&quot; behaviour. Written with considerable flair and panache, the book is highly opaque, relying much on paradox, wordplay, discontinuity and the need to undermine the rigour and consistency of &quot;reasoned&quot; discourse, which Foucault charges of embedding dangerous authoritarian implications. The obscurity and complexity of his style also illustrates the very pressing difficulty of trying to express any certain or objective truth about reality. The translation of Richard Howard, however, is the superior version, as it retains much of the impact of Foucault's style.	2001-08-04
US	50719867	R32RXMVRR1TMXB	0306809974	38104890	The Autobiography Of Joseph Stalin: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The &quot;unknown&quot; Stalin	The author dons the persona of one of the most dangerous men in the history of humanity, Joseph Stalin, to provide a thorough and authentic account of his obsessions, his fears and his ruthless ambitions. The book, which is highly extensive in scope, shows Stalin's poor childhood and how he is abused by his sadistic father. Then, he enters a seminary, begins to doubt the existence of God and mixes in the circles of revolutionary socialists. His rise in the party hierarchy and his association with Lenin are well documented, including his rivalry with the most gifted intellectual genius of the Bolshevik movement, Lev Trotsky, who easily eclipses the &quot;cobbler's son&quot;, Stalin. After his ascent to power, Stalin believes that his life is threatened by Trotsky, now exhiled in Mexico, and he proceeds to meticulously plan the latter's assassination. For him, Trotsky is a dangerous and lingering fascination, and he exerts a profound unease on his throughout the duration of the novel, until Stalin finally succeeds in infiltrating Trotsky's circle with an N.K.V.D. agent who slaughters Trotsky with an axe, thus allowing Stalin to rule without any threat or opposition from potential rivals. Although the repressions and policies pursued by Stalin were truly disastrous, this does not prevent Richard Lourie from presenting him as a sympathetic, misunderstood, undervalued and not always unlikeable individual who rose to absolute tyranny. The book excels in two ways. It is very well researched, drawing on all the major episodes in Stalin's life, thus being on a par with some of the best biographies of Stalin available. In addition, it moves with the pace of suspense thriller, containing a number of twists, reversals and red herrings. The conversational, sometimes wryly humorous tone of Stalin the narrator is perhaps one of the most accurate reconstructions so far of the &quot;unknown Stalin&quot;.	2001-07-02
US	50719867	R295K62V5RQDQ	0714503460	216888877	Literature and Evil	Books	5	27	28	N	N	Literature and Evil	Georges Battaille throws down a challange to Jean-Paul Sartre, who held that &quot;literature is inncocent&quot;. Bataille, in his examination of such figures as Emily Bronte, Sade, Baudelaire, Genet, Kafka and Michelet, and the component of &quot;evil&quot; in their works, argues that literature is, in fact, &quot;guilty&quot; and that, moreover, it must acknowledge itself as such. In his reading of these literary figures, Bataille proceeds to analyse literature's complicity with evil and how this enables it reach a fuller level of communication. Drawing on Freud, he &quot;eroticises&quot; literary creativity and contends that the notion of &quot;Art for art's sake&quot;, which emerges as a reaction to a fragmented and reified social world dominated by utilitarianism and commodity fetishism, is actually a subterfuge, literature masquerading as innocent under the mantle of &quot;pure art&quot;, in order to rechannel the forces that are dammed up owing to the repressions imposed by culture. Though elliptical and opaque, this book is a challenging and fascinating study, which has a potential for laying the foundations for a philosophy of composition that underwrites the aesthetic of evil and explores its relation to the overarching forces of institutional and administrative surveillance.	2001-06-26
US	50719867	R1HQBXTBF3SJLI	0226039250	886972239	Selected Poems from Les Fleurs du mal: A Bilingual Edition	Books	5	8	10	N	N	The finest translation of Baudelaire in English	This bilingual edition (masterfully translated by Norman Shapiro) carefully transposes the French originals into a formal, poetic English idiom, which captures both the meaning and the music of Baudelaire, the fallen angel and champion of evil. Though conventional in terms of his metrics and poetic forms, Baudelaire is arguably the first great Modernist poet. One dives into the murky miasmata of these pages to discover a world of perverse pleasures, wrathful and sordid imagery and unregenerate vice glorified by one of its most eloquent spokesmen. Baudelaire, a tortured personality, in which profound guilt is contraposed with carnal lust, Satanism, delight in cruelty and a longing for hell, is one of the towering giants of modern European literature. His poetry is a bitter fruit that few can savour with impunity.	2001-06-21
US	50719867	R36QZSL3QMFOH2	0140280197	184172254	The 48 Laws of Power	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Macchiavellian encyclopedia	Amoral, ruthless and cunning, &quot;The 48 Laws of Power&quot;, by Robert Greene, is a revised Macchiavellianism. Greene, a playwright and classical scholar, presents here a number of hypothetical and generalised strategies for the would-be diplomat as to how to accre power by all means, such as fraud, hypocrisy, treachery, self-mastery and dissimulation. The &quot;laws&quot; range from &quot;Crush Your Enemy Totally&quot;, &quot;Conceal Your Intentions&quot;, &quot;Assume Formlessness&quot; and &quot;Take the Credit, While Others Do All the Work&quot;; each law is expounded in an elegantly laid-out chapter, which includes instances, (based upon historical sources) where the law was successfully observed, possible instances when it was tragically transgressed, an interpretaion of both instances, some remarks as to the time and situations it can be applied and a possible reversal of the law (e.g. countermoves if the law in question fails, or when it would be prudent to desist from observing it.) Moreover, the book is highly democratic in spirit, and is tailored for people from even the lowest stratum of society, enabling them to apply these strategies in their lives in order to accumulate more power. The historical figures used by Greene are taken from as far back as classical antiquity, ancient China and Japan, and up to the Nixon era, though it would have been preferable had Greene updated his book even further and included more recent examples of powerful figures, such as Maragaret Thatcher, Ronald Reagan, Bill Gates and David Copperfield. It's a pity that Greene has recourse to the same figures over and over again in order to illustrate his observations, which narrows down the cast of characters of what would have otherwise been an absorbing account of the power-plays of master manipulators. The book is entertainingly and attractively written, though, with a bibliography and an index, and is as extensive in its scope as an encyclopedia. My one major criticism, though, (and this applies to almost all self-help books) is that it may fail to meet its practical end by reducing all the laws of power to a mere forty-eight, as the realm of power is so diffuse that it can permit a number of different combinations of action, and shifts in perspective. Secondly, a born manipulator will have no need to consult a book such as this, as it is precisely the people who lack the skills Greene admires who will have anything to learn from it. Nevertheless, those who are frustrated, who are isolated, who crave attention, who are ugly, awkward, or simply misunderstood (as everyone is, from time to time) will find this book to be of some relevance. In any case, one can simply glance through it as a bold and peculiarly interesting armchair read.	2001-06-12
US	50719867	R3D0V51VXJOVOK	0876854439	615726674	Ask the Dust	Books	3	26	28	N	N	Bandini's return	Fante's rebel anti-hero, Arturo Bandini, a writer with the honour of having had one short story published in a magazine, strolls into a cafe, in which he meets a Mexican waitress, Camilla Lopez, and they embark on a bizarre and stormy love-hate relationship, eventually descending into the realms of madness. John Fante, one of the greatest of, though unsung, geniuses of American fiction presents here one of the most marvellous of coming-of-age novels. Though the prose is spare, economical and concise, Fante manages to evoke effects of the most opulent splendour and most lyrical subtlety. He also manages to explore, with a great measure of success, the psychological dimension probed by Dostoevsky and Hamsun, in his recording the caprices and the most perverse quirks of his characters' behaviour. Bandini is an endearing creation, conceited, megalomaniacal and sensitive in a sometimes comic, sometimes sympathetic way. Some of the encounters in this book and the satirical banter of the characters is immensely humorous.	2001-06-08
US	50719867	R3N6UYE5PCXNE0	0195112210	596326936	The Anxiety of Influence: A Theory of Poetry	Books	2	20	33	N	N	Defeatist treatise on the process of canon formation	Harold Bloom, borrowing the metaphors and terminology of psychoanalysis, interprets the poet's relation to tradition in terms of an agonistic Oedipal struggle, arguing that the (\\"belated\\") poet's literary productions result from a conflict with a \\"strong\\" father figure with whom he must compete through a number of rhetorical phases representative of the \\"repression\\" of his own poetic self and the strong misreading (or \\"misprision\\", as Bloom calls it) of the work of a predecessor. Bloom's conception of the \\"canon\\" is a hierarchical, continuous and genealogical model of direct succession, as the young apprentice to the craft of literature subjects himself to self-imposed austerities, ridding himself of prematurely smug complacency, opening his text to the strong aura of the canon, and testing his productions against it. However, Bloom's argument is undercut by his own acknowledgement that many great writers can afford to nevertheless produce great literature by debunking the whole issue of influence, belatedness and originality, and allowing their works to flow forth from them spontaneously. This admission risks making the importance of the canon altogether trivial. Another difficulty is the understanding of many writers that the ideas of &quot;influence&quot; and &quot;tradition&quot; can entirely do away with the idea of belatedness, for the poet cannot be belated in a world of which he or she can still have an impact through writing and teaching. Bloom's defeatist reliance on canonical precedents, and his implicit regard that new writers have arrived too late in history to produce truly original works, reflects the postmodern &quot;fin-de-millennium&quot; langour that all sources of inspiration have been exhausted, and that we must abandon all hope of creating new works, but merely repeat the past. Not only are his conclusions totally untenable, but his whole treatise, on its insistence on returning to canonical precedents, fails to provide for a more dynamic, more forward-moving (as opposed to reversing, revising and troping) theory of poetry, a theory capable of affirming life and history more fully. It would be interesting to discover what Bloom would make of Henry Adams's remark: \\"Everything is respectable and nothing amusing. There are no outlaws.\\"forward-moving (as opposed to reversing, revising and troping) theory of poetry, a theory capable of affirming life and history more fully. It would be interesting to discover what Bloom would make of Henry Adams's remark: \\"Everything is respectable and nothing amusing. There are no outlaws.\\"	2001-05-31
US	50719867	RHMMOHRSV8O5J	0312042256	355774489	Against Postmodernism: A Marxist Critique	Books	3	14	22	N	N	An optimistic Marxism	Alex Callinicos, political philosopher and Marxist-Trotskyist activist, launches a blistering attack against the leading stars in the postmodern, or poststructuralist, trends in recent thought, such as Derrida, Foucault, Deleuze and Lyotard, by regarding their idealist irrationalism as the last decadent gesture of late capitalism. His &quot;symptomatological&quot; critique interprets their efforts to decentre the autonomous, undifferentiated &quot;subject&quot;, or self, in addition to their tepid relativism and their tortuously obscure writing style as signs of a reactionary nihilism on the part of disillusioned, middle-aged bourgeois academics. Central to Callinicos's analysis were the events surrounding the failure of the student insurrection of Paris '68, which, in consolidating peacemeal reformism in the form of trade unionism on the one hand, and allowing the Maoist left to emerge triumphant on the other, effectively ruled out any chance of a people's revolution,leading to the detumescent revolutionary fervour of many intellectuals, which culminated, according to Callinicos, in the &quot;crisis&quot; which he considers the postmodern phenomena. Callinicos also discounts any claim made by postmodernism towards elaborating a coherent or practicable theory of political resistance. He also takes issue with major thinkers in the post-Marxist camp, such as Marcuse, Adorno and Horkheimer, whom he dismisses for their political quietism, even though his critique is greatly indebted to at least one neo-Marxist, Jurgen Habermas, in his urge to continue the project of modernity, in a bid to rewaken the hope of further human emancipation. Callinicos's broad-ranging critique also leads him to attack the theorists of the post-industrial society, who maintain that classical Marxism is incapable of penetrating the mystified structures of global, or &quot;disorganised capital&quot;, and he rebuts by claiming that there has been no significant change in the methods of capital accumulation since Marx' day, and that worldwide revolution is still necessary and justified. He also argues that postmodernism does not in any way represent a qualitative break with the Modernism, in terms of literary, aesthetic or architectural styles, but is merely a refinement of it. However, Callinicos's optimism leads him into a blind-alley, as his findings, compiled in 1989, has been overtaken by events, such as the growth of thw worldwide web (e-commerce, m-commerce) the heightening of globalised capital, the further erosion of nation-state boundaries and the proliferation of the services industry as opposed to manufacture - all which have inaugurated a new phase in capital formation which may elude even Callinicos's efforts at analysis. Secondly, Callinicos's negative criitque, though effective at times in pointing out some of the contradictions that bedevil cultural theory, does not offer a clear programme for political action. The only path open to him, of course, is the attempt to establish another &quot;meta-narrative&quot; such as the working-class emancipation, a course that his no become out-of-date subsequent to the colossal failure of communism in the Soviet Union, and the establishment of the Stalinist terror state. By contrast, poststructuralism, with its obsession with the fragment, the paradox and the plural nature of values, seems to occasionally offer a not always positive, but often energetic engagement with, political aporias. Nevertheless, Callinicos's study contains a wealth of useful information and many interesting observations on the historical, economic, literary and aesthetic trends dominant up to the Modernist impasse, and is supported by extensive quotations and a bibliography. Overall, however, he misses the point, as his analysis is far too partisan and hence, incomplete, to be totally convincing.	2001-05-27
US	50719867	R3RYDDEE1ILWP3	0394726413	368227816	Bright Lights, Big City	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Comic but poignant tale of yuppie disaffection	&quot;Bright Lights, Big City&quot;, a brilliant product of the 80s era of superficiality and excess, is a portrayal of a yuppie news reporter living in near-total denial. Strangely, the second-person technique manages to effectively create a bond of sympathy between reader and hero, as we are drawn into the conflicts and misfortunes that beset the nameless reporter. The novel, which is idiosyncratically told in the second-person, relates the episodes that transpire in the bustling nighlife of Manhattan, from the nightclubs to the high-rise apartment blocks, as the oppressed protagonist recovers from one cocaine orgy to another, as he copes with the trauma of losing his prestiguous job out of negligence, to concealing the fact that his model wife has left him, to the death of his mother. Though the novel is inevitably tragic - an odyssey of escapism and frailty, - it is redeemed by its wit and sophistication. Very funny in places.	2001-05-27
US	50719867	R24MU6BJDUES13	0385497695	508232352	The Plato Papers: A Novel	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Lighthearted satire	What appears ostensibly as a thinking man's satire of civilisation in the distamt future (in which humanity has evolved to the level of being able to occupy two planes in space at the same time) turns out to be a bland and forgettable combination of broad jokes and tepid puns. Though the satire is quite lighthearted (poking fun at such figures as Charles Dickens, the author of &quot;Origin of Species&quot; and Sigmund &quot;Fraud&quot;) this is an inevitably forgettable novel, also let down by its pamphlet-size length.	2001-05-24
US	50719867	R1D7WWQ17OMB6C	0394758285	849452523	The Big Sleep (A Philip Marlowe Novel)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A highly personable detective	Raymond Chandler's highly acclaimed detective classic, &quot;The Big Sleep&quot;, (1939) may not live up to his later works, especially &quot;The Little Sister&quot; and &quot;The Long Goodbye&quot;. Though the plot is no less convoluted and diffuse, it seems to lack the panache and self-parodying irony that have made Chandler one of the greatest names in the history of detective fiction. Nevertheless, &quot;The Big Sleep&quot; is perhaps one of the most representative example of the &quot;hard-boiled&quot; American school of the detective novel. The hero, a tough-speaking, cynical private detective, Philip Marlowe, has been immortalised by Hollywood in the guise of the chain-smoking, trenchcoat-wearing Humphrey Bogart. Admittedly, Marlowe is cast in a different vein than his predecessor, Sherlock Holmes, though he is no less personable and distinctive. In the British detective novel, which Chandler despised, the hero is portrayed as a representative of a relatively stable moral world, who merely corrects the misdemeanours that occur in it. However, Marlowe, whose personality combines toughness with sentimentality, is a citizen of a totally amoral world and, as he progresses down the &quot;mean streets&quot; of L.A., he can only rely on his conscience as the repository of his private moral code. Moreover, Chandler is an extremely clever stylist in his own right (indeed, so many subsequent detective writers are indebted to him) and the caustic dialogue and compelling soliloquies of his hero approximate a highly original form of lyrical beauty. The atmosphere of Chandler's novel is redolent of sex, danger and gunsmoke and I would recommend this novel to anyone who appreciates great detective fiction.	2001-05-21
US	50719867	R3P1IOHBS7GEED	0385006896	390250393	The Complete Sherlock Holmes	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A book for budding supersleuths	This is the essential collection of the adventures of the greatest detective of all time, Sherlock Holmes and his rather slow-witted foil, Dr. Watson. The atmosphere of the foggy, lacklustre streets of London, peopled by constables and hansoms, comes wafting out of these pages, as Holmes and Watson succeed in solving numerous problems, featuring some of the most memorable episodes in pop literature. Holmes is undeniably one of the most striking personages in the history of fiction. An expert fencer, boxer and an addict of &quot;seven-percent solution&quot; cocaine, he is eccentric, yet brilliant, patriotic, though possessed of immense analytical powers. The tales, which are, for the most part, extremely well-constructed, and are loaded with suspense and surprise, range from the adventure of &quot;The Red-Headed League&quot; to the &quot;Hound of the Baskervilles&quot; and &quot;The Final Problem&quot; in which Holmes engages in a deadly confrontation with his arch-enemy and, arguably, his intellectual equal, Professor Moriarty, the &quot;Napoleon of crime&quot;.	2001-05-21
US	50719867	R5VQN815QKK63	019283410X	833642418	The Lives of the Artists (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	22	24	N	N	The aetiology of art	Vasari interprets the plastic and architectonic arts (painting, sculpture and architecture) as means for promoting the glory of God, as the artist, in his creative act, emulates the supreme creative act of the deity and is thus brought closer to him. His history of Renaissance, or, in Vasari's terms &quot;modern&quot;, art spans from the early medieval masters, such as Cimabue and Giotto, up to the great trimuvirate of the high Renaissance, Leonardo, Raphael and Michelangelo, whom Vasari regards with immense reverence as the greatest artist of all time, a genius who even surpassed the perfection of the ancients, and even nature itself. The history describes the gradual advances inaugurated by Giotto and Cimabue, freeing art from the grip of the artificial and iconographic Gothic style, and the progressive development of mathematical perspective by the likes of Brunelleschi, Masaccio and Piero della Franchesca, up to Michelangelo, the genius characterised by &quot;terribilata&quot; and absolute mastery of the arts. A section is also devoted to the Venetian masters Titian, Giorgione and Bellini, though they receive short shrift as Vasari, being a Florentine, does not attempt to conceal his bias towards Florentine art and hostility towards the Venetians. The account is written in highly engaging and vivacious prose, with an occasionally gossipy flavour, as Vasari relates, in charming anecdotes, some of the personal events that transpired in the lives of the artists. Altogether, this is a landmark of art-historical research, compiled at a time when research techniques were extremely unreliable, and when interlibrary loans were unheard-of.	2001-05-16
US	50719867	RFQ5QYUCIKMA4	0140188142	476196749	Aaron's Rod (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	An odyssey of passion, individuality and art	Aaron Sisson, a coal miner and amateur flutist in the Midlands, abandons his wife and two children and escapes to Italy in the hope of throwing off the trammels of his environment and realising his individual potentials. His dream is to become recognised as a master flutist. In Florence, he mixes in intellectual and artistic circles and has an affair with an aristocratic lady who redeems him in his own eyes. Like the majority of Lawrence's novels, the central theme is the relations between men and women, though this time, it is given a twist owing to Lawrence nourishing his mind on a reading of Nietzsche, who was then gradually becoming recognised in England. In his analysis of the concept of &quot;love&quot; between the sexes, Lawrence perceives it as a function of the will to power, a cycle of reciprocal domination and surrender, in which the man must conquer and the woman must submit. Elements of the rejection of the &quot;herd morality&quot; on Aaron's part and his endeavour at self-development are both ideas of peculiarly Nietzschean provenance. The fact that Aaron realises himself through music is another echo of Nietzsche, who regarded music as the purest and most supreme of the arts, in which the passions achieve immense gratification. The title refers to the rod of Aaron in the Old Testament, one of Moses's renegade priests who built the golden calf in the desert for the worship of the Israelites. The rod, his symbol of authority and independence, finds its echo in Aaron's flute, which is broken later in the novel during an anarchist riot. There is a price to pay, Lawrence seems to imply, for daring to oppose orthodoxy and to try to create a new life for oneself. Unlike Lawrence's more famous works, such as &quot;Lady Chatterly's Lover&quot; and &quot;Women in Love&quot;, which are both admirable for their rich, poetic prose, &quot;Aaron's Rod&quot; is drably written and occasionally tedious, with a narrative that is sometimes poorly connected, as it dwellson irrelevancies. However, the message, that of an individual fulfilling his duty to himself, is an encouraging and refreshing one.	2001-05-14
US	50719867	R19W4AWD7KW5U0	0436200597	431439122	Fullalove [SIGNED]	Books	3	0	0	N	N	The scuzzy aspects of contemporary life	Norman Miller, a burnt-out middle-aged reporter now working for a sleazy tabloid, is the man caught in the centre of this bizarre Kafkaesque tableu. Descending into a maze of sordidness and futility, he begins to question whether he is a spectator of the events before him, or whether he is actually an actual participant by virtue of some unfathomable chain of cause and effect. Burn's literate, topical prose, a collage of jargon, brand names and colloquiallisms, manages also to hint at the inner world of the distraught narrator, presenting a believable picture of middle-aged disaffection and loss. The fragmentary, digressive plot manages to evoke effects that are at times expressionistic, at times cinematic, almost phenomenological, as a barrage of images and situations come hurling at the reader, in the manner of experiences received in raw perception. This confidently-handled contemporary character study will appeal to all those who take an interest in the more sordid and scuzzier aspects of life today.	2001-05-14
US	50719867	R20ZMPBYFYSDIX	0809001608	598990781	The Treasure of the Sierra Madre	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The immortal story of Gold and Greed	The narrative follows the adventures of three gold prospectors, all down-and-outers, heading to Mexico as buddies with dreams of avarice, only to become entangled in fierce division, treachery and murder. B. Traven's immensely popular novel is an exciting tale of greed and malevolence, set against the baked and bandit-riddden splendours of the Mexican sierras, and featuring intriguing philosophical meditations on the nature of conscience, duty and freedom. It was excellently fimed in 1948 ny John Huston, with Humphrey Bogart in the lead role as the mendacious Fred C. Dobbs.	2001-05-14
US	50719867	R2P3P9IP8HN78N	0316099872	145778200	The Aardvark Is Ready for War: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A latter-day &quot;Catch-22&quot;	Though it is not as good as &quot;Catch-22&quot;, this novel sparkles with sassy dialogue, military argot and flashy gadgets, becoming, in the process, an authentic account of the technologised conflict which was the Gulf War. It implies how, in the light of how life today is dominated by digital satellite technology, camcorders and computers, everyone has assumed the role of voyeur. The anonymous narrator is a recruit enlisted to fight in the &quot;hyperral&quot; Gulf War crisis, in which, by virtue of the hi-tech surveillance equipment employed, the perception of a thing becomes a way of &quot;manipulating&quot; it. The book is stuffed with borrowings from such postmodern epigones as Baudrillard, and is far more philosophically complex than one might expect, though redeemed also by its irreverent humour.	2001-05-13
US	50719867	RMAYRHDAOENC5	0224042076	806159087	The Dumb House	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Eccentric and ingenious crime thriller	The novel relates a highly elaborate experiment carried out by an insane genius: whether language is innately acquired, or whether it is a product of environment and conditioning. The protagonist (who is unnamed) proceeds to murder a vagrant girl he shelters, preparatory to kidnapping her two children (of whom he, incidentally, is the father) and imprisoning them for years in a secure chamber. Throughout this period, he attends them while totally mute, administering food to them and preventing them from coming into any contact with the outside world in his bid to discover the origin of human communication. However, his experiment takes a turn for the worse, as the two children manage to surprisingly turn the tables on their deranged father, ending with grisly results. This is an unforgettable and deeply fascinating crime thriller.	2001-05-13
US	50719867	R3P1JXU3D8ZT4S	0804741085	720406933	The Selected Poetry of Robinson Jeffers	Books	4	61	73	N	N	The Inhumanist	Who was Robinson Jeffers? - A high priest of Nature? A proto-ecologist visionary? A lyric expounder of Fascism? An enemy of civilisation? An implacable misanthrope who spent his last years in his secluded lodging overlooking the Pacific, shunning what Edgar Allan Poe aptly referred to as \\"the tyranny of the human face\\"? His celebrations of war, his reverence for transhuman beauty, his dismissal of human egocentricity, and his pursuit of detachment and objectivity all suggest that he was either a befuddled hermit or an arch-hater of civilisation. Moreover, his fierce opposition to fanaticism and unfounded millennial hopes, his sanctification of greatness and his yearning to eradicate falsehoods and superstitions, - (such as human solipsism and anthropocentricsm) - and his registering of the urgings of religious awe tempt one to explain him away as a misanthrope. Both interpretations are wrong. Jeffers, a direct heir of the Transcendentalists Emerson, Thoreau and Whitman (he borrowed Whitman's long line, though failed to produce his sonic effects) stands as one of the finest poetic figures in neo-Romantic Modernism. His radical philosophy, which he called Inhumanism, is actually an attempt to totally think anew human conceptions regarding the nature and humanity, and is far too selective, complex, affirmative and far-reaching to be dismissed as simple misanthropy. It is for this reason that Jeffers's work has generated a vortex of academic dissent. The adage that \\"all great religions began as heresies\\" may receive sufficient demonstration in Jeffers' future critical reception. In this connection, it may be tempting to see Jeffers as another Prometheus, a seeker and bringer of Truth and Fire. His Inhumanism is a bold and powerful attempt to ennoble humanity through greater knowledge and self-scrutiny.	2001-05-11
US	50719867	R30FUVD794W6IY	0811208435	160491978	Collected Early Poems of Ezra Pound	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Pound's finest verse	Pound's forays into the realm of the past, evinced by his interest in the Provencal trouvres and the ancient Chinese and Japanese poets (whose works he rendered into English from notes made by the Sinologist Ernest Fenollosa) formed the basis of his early poetic enterprise. In terms of style, these early poems display a rarely paralleled originality, in combination with reserves of hermetic knowledge. This collection, which includes the translations (or paraphrases) of &quot;Cathay&quot;, the impersonations of &quot;Personae&quot; and the renovations and improvisations of &quot;Ripostes&quot; and &quot;Lustra&quot; contains the best of Pound's poetry. It is not laden with the overlearnedness and pedantic eccentricity that make &quot;The Cantos&quot;, (falsely called Pound's \\"masterpiece\\") such a brilliant failure, even by Pound's own admission. Moreover, they are possibly the most refreshing and original of Pound's works, displaying a remarkable novelty and a healthy erudition. Highly recommended.	2001-05-11
US	50719867	R2Q76AKC8T000X	0192836951	194191660	The Misfortunes of Virtue and Other Early Tales (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	3	27	29	N	N	Infinite evil	Sade, long known for being the unprintable,unpublishable and,in the words of Henry James, the great &quot;unnameable&quot;, continues to be avoided by the mainstream, as well as the syllabuses of academic literature courses. Several university professors have even frankly confessed to me that they wouldn't touch Sade with a pair of tongs. This is due to his delight in all manifestations of evil, his notorious enjoyment of cruelty and self-inflicted pain, his immoralism and his picture of a loveless and destructive cosmos. For Sade, the universe has no features: there is no God, no goodness, no truth, no unity. Nature, the great aristocrat, is indifferent and the bad and strong triumph while the small and weak go to the wall. These sentiments, presented in their most bald form, may strike us as banal, though they do contain an essential germ of truth and right. The main story in this collection, amply illustrates this theme, as a pious, intensely moral girl, upon meeting with adverse circumstances, travels through life enduring the most agonising injustices imaginable, ranging from slavery, robbery, beating, mutilation and rape by a group of lecherous monks she had ostensibly sought out for aid. Nevertheless, she refuses to yield to the temptations of revenge and hate of the world which so cruelly treats her, but holds fast to her religious and moral principles. As a result, Sade has her punished for her virtues. Other tales touch on Sade's preoccupations with evil and good, including one that touches on lesbianism, though the overall selection is not as dark as it seems, containing a number of episodes of genuinely original humour and irony. &quot;Dialogue between a Priest and a Dying Man&quot; is one such story, employing the fashionable eighteenth century form of the dialogue. It consists in a dying man outarguing his priest, eventually convincing him of the advantages of vice and converting him to atheism. It's a shame that Sade is so underrated as a humourist.	2001-05-09
US	50719867	R3LNNEYLGGCO25	0140434895	365726027	Great Expectations (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A love story and a social critique	It may be difficult to rehabilitate Dickens from the reputation assigned to him by his critics, such as his being labelled as a spinner of popular yarns; a prime representative of Victorian strait-laced morality; a notoriously verbose prosaist whose writing teems with rhetorical redundancies and digressions; a careless plotter and over-plotter with a propensity for hyperbolic and grotesque comedy, depicting grim and depressing situations peopled by caricatures and abnormally exaggerated personages. The criticism that he commits a number of unforgivable Freudian flaws cannot so easily be obviated as well. Unlike the more firmly established exponents of the realist novel, such as Stendhal, Balzac and Dostoevsky, with their searching psychological assessments of character and motive, Dickens seems concerned mainly with evoking the idea of a certain character and not the character itself in its concrete, three-dimensional actuality. This explains his penchant for caricature. Nevertheless, his ability to present concrete characters is illustrated in &quot;Great Expectations&quot;, one of his later and finer works, particularly the characters of Pip and the convict Magwitch, who are psychologically profound and sympathetic portrayals in comparison to the host of other characters. His ability as a profound satirist and social critic is conclusively demonstrated by his interweaving his analysis of class, injustice and crime with the narrative. Pip, who finds himself elevated from his humble origins to one of the highest strata of society, by being made into a gentleman by a mysterious benefactor, is shocked to discover that this same benefactor, the agent of his social progress, is a despicable criminal who offends him by his sight. The message is obvious: society is a complex network of interrelations that interpenetrate class divisions; Miss Havisham is jilted by Compeyson, who is Magwitch's accomplice; Magwitch is the benefactor of Pip, who is in love with Estella, Magwitch's daughter. All, Dickens seems to say, are equal, regardless of their class or origin, before the judgement of God, which transcends human judgement. This is memorably brought out in the courtroom scene, during Magwitch's trial, in the description of the shaft of light that illuminated the room, \\"between the two-and-thirty [prisoners] and the Judge, linking them both together and perhaps reminding some among the audience, how both were passing on with absolute equality, to the greater Judgement that knoweth all things and cannot err.\\" Dickens's moral is the necessity of human fellowship, which we see lacking in the dehumanised Jaggers and Wemmick and in Estella and Miss Havisham, who both come to tragic or regrettable ends, through their coldheartedness and pitilessness. This quality, Dickens's use of plot coincidences to deliver profound human statements, partially redeems him from the charges of being a mere popular storyteller or a romanticist. In this respect, and also with regard to his verisimilitude in rendering authentic detail, he invites comparison with the great realists, such as Flaubert and Joyce, the masters of radical and even amoral realism, though Dickens, with his undisguised moralising, his chaste heroes and puritanical heroines, does not sit comfortably amongst these two; both of whom had works banned, one for his apparent frankness, the other for his obscenity and scatology. &quot;Great Expectations&quot; remains, however, as one of the great representatives of the realist, or social, novel, the product of an age that abolished serfdom and slavery, that witnessed the Industrial Revolution, the growth of large towns and the expansion of business enterprise. as such, it is an invaluable document of its time.tch's daughter. All, Dickens seems to say, are equal, regardless of their class or origin, before the judgement of God, which transcends human judgement. This is memorably brought out in the courtroom scene, during Magwitch's trial, in the description of the shaft of light that illuminated the room, \\"between the two-and-thirty [prisoners] and the Judge, linking them both together and perhaps reminding some among the audience, how both were passing on with absolute equality, to the greater Judgement that knoweth all things and cannot err.\\" Dickens's moral is the necessity of human fellowship, which we see lacking in the dehumanised Jaggers and Wemmick and in Estella and Miss Havisham, who both come to tragic or regrettable ends, through their coldheartedness and pitilessness. This quality, Dickens's use of plot coincidences to deliver profound human statements, partially redeems him from the charges of being a mere popular storyteller or a romanticist. In this respect, and also with regard to his verisimilitude in rendering authentic detail, he invites comparison with the great realists, such as Flaubert and Joyce, the masters of radical and even amoral realism, though Dickens, with his undisguised moralising, his chaste heroes and puritanical heroines, does not sit comfortably amongst these two; both of whom had works banned, one for his apparent frankness, the other for his obscenity and scatology. &quot;Great Expectations&quot; remains, however, as one of the great representatives of the realist, or social, novel, the product of an age that abolished serfdom and slavery, that witnessed the Industrial Revolution, the growth of large towns and the expansion of business enterprise. as such, it is an invaluable document of its time.	2001-05-09
US	50719867	RLOHYSFBWQ51	1853262048	88317608	Greenmantle (Wordsworth Classics) (Wordsworth Collection)	Books	4	50	51	N	N	Racy espionage thriller	&quot;Greenmantle&quot;, by John Buchan, is actually based on a remarkable, if little-known, aspect of German propaganda during World War I. It involved Kaiser Wilhelm declaring himself a convert to Islam, a leader of &quot;jihad&quot;, as a tactic for winning the support of the Muslim territories under British control and thus fomenting an anti-British revolution. Richard Hannay, Buchan's intrepid hero from &quot;The Thirty-Nine Steps&quot;, is the man entrusted to stop this plan from being carried out, and his adventure takes him from London, to Holland and Turkey and finally to the Russian border for a spectacular climax. Complaints have been made about Buchan's racist and jingo-imperialist biases, as the novel easily betrays the sentiments of a la &quot;dominion over palm and pine.&quot; However, a fiction-writer may, under a certain poetic license, attack creeds, doctrines, persons and institutions with impunity; moreover, a writer must be seen as a product of his age. This racy, lively, energetic novel is best appreciated as an excellent work of light literature. The conclusion is an undeniably exciting confrontation, including the charge of Cossack cavalry, as Hannay engages in the final showdown between the two German villains, the gross Stumm and the evil beauty, Hilda von Einem.	2001-05-05
US	50719867	R1RVT1V2V43R4I	0395051460	363288838	Gullivers Travels	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The greatest satirist of all time	Jonathan Swift, - satirist, churchman, reformer, - is perhaps one of the greatest satirists of all time. &quot;Gulliver's Travels&quot;, his masterpiece, demonstrates the full breadth of his ingenious and far-sighted critique of almost the entire social order of his time, which included the Enlightenment belief in progress, reason and science, as well as the system of government. Critics have gone so far as to interpret him as a libertarian, an anarchist, even a nihilist, as he tended to see how even the highest ideals of civilisation, its most august institutions, were actually the products of barabarism. Like many men of his generation, including Alexander Pope, Swift believed in the &quot;retournons du nature&quot;, though nature was not seen as equivalent to the unchaining of passion and the blind gratification of appetite, but as something that was achieved through effort and discipline. The humour is bawdy and sometimes coarse, no less than that of Rabelais, such as the scene in Lilliput in which the giant Gulliver puts out the fire in the queen's tiny palace by urinating on it. Altogether, the book is an amusing and marvellous satire. Religion, however, is the one topic that Swift, being an ecclesiastic, refrains from subjecting to criticism.	2001-05-05
US	50719867	R7U1WC934ZMZV	0811201880	942112163	Nausea (New Directions Paperbook)	Books	1	15	38	N	N	Dismally bad	&quot;Nausea&quot; by Jean-Paul Sartre, has been hailed as his first extended essay on the existential philosophy that has made him famous. The novel consists of the thoughts and experiences (which are displaced into a journal format) of Antonin, an alienated intellectual who falls prey to the feeling of the existential Nausea, as he attempts, nihilistically, to purge himself of the &quot;sin of existence&quot;. The novel, Sartre's first, is blighted by the main fault to which beginners are vulnerable, namely, blatantly making their texts a vehicle for their own philosophical views. Too much of the story is taken up by the hero's obsession with a gramophone record, though one man's obsession may be another man's tedium. The plot lacks any sense of drive, the main character simply fails to engage the reader's sympathy and the result is a book which is amateurish, plodding and just plain boring.	2001-04-30
US	50719867	R2KJUPMISDE902	0553213733	614019833	Robinson Crusoe	Books	5	0	1	N	N	An image of striving capitalism	Besides being an admirable adventure story recounting the struggles of a single man braving the hostility of the elements, Daniel Defoe's &quot;Robinson Crusoe&quot; is an allegory of a striving capitalist. No other book stands so prominently as a product of the Puritan, post-Reformation environment, with its ideals of asceticism, self-denial and the accumulation of wealth. It has been also remarked that Crusoe is peculiarly oblivious to the craving for woman. The episode involving cannibalism (which can be read as an anagram of &quot;capitalism&quot;) illustrates this, as Crusoe is menaced by the fear of being eaten. Moreover, the novel is invested with profoundly Christian symbolism, as the surname of the hero (Crusoe=crux=cross) attests. Note that Crusoe's &quot;echo&quot; in the narrative is Xury, the first letter of whose name (X) is patently Christian in connotation. Though a stirring and exciting tale of courage and survival, it is strongly underpinned by the Enlightenment ethic of man's domination of nature for the purposes of his own self-aggrandisment.	2001-04-23
US	50719867	R3JSV3K9PDEG8C	0192833847	809826371	On Liberty and Other Essays (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	16	20	N	N	A keystone of liberal thought	John Stuart Mill's chief concern is how individual liberty, which he held to be paramount, can be reconciled with public utility or, in other words, in delineating the tensions that arise between the public and private sphere in modern society. He expounds, with much clarity and insight, the feasability, as well as the desirability, of state intervention in the affairs of individuals. He defines freedom, above all, to be the freedom to think and act as one sees right (provided that this does not encroach on the rights of others). His essay &quot;Utilitarianism&quot;, is an incisive explication of the philosophy of utilitarianism developed by Mill's father, James Mill and the jurist and philosopher, Jeremy Bentham, which holds &quot;the greatest happiness for the greatest number&quot; as the chief aim of social organisation. &quot;On Representative Government&quot;, which should not be mistaken for direct democracy (rule of the people by the people) he covers the mechanisms of state action. &quot;On the Subjection of Women&quot; reveals Mill to have been one of the pioneering feminists, as his arguments for the emancipation of women continue to be adduced by leading feminist philosophers today. Admittedly, one cannot agree with Mill on everything. This is because the &quot;liberalism&quot; of the nineteenth century, with its stress on work, discipline and duty, is almost totally opposed to the &quot;open-minded&quot; liberalism of today. Furthermore, Mill's theories are filled with flaws. Nevertheless, these essays are documents of profound importance and relevance and repay close study.	2001-04-23
US	50719867	R1WA0INDB3LPJV	0521357306	656404453	Locke: Two Treatises of Government (Cambridge Texts in the History of Political Thought)	Books	3	9	35	N	N	A critique and an appreciation	There are few books that one would encounter prior to refuting each of its propositions one by one. Locke's &quot;Two Treatises of Government&quot; is such a book. The &quot;First Treatise&quot;, which is of less importance nowadays than the second, is a critique of the authoritarian and patriarchal system of Sir Robert Filmer. The second involves, first of all, Locke's conception of natural laws and natural rights (ideas which are almost self-contradictory) as nature entertains no notions of &quot;laws&quot; or &quot;rights&quot; but only necessities; the tiger who wants to devour me is as much within his &quot;rights&quot; as I am when I shoot him down. Locke's conception of the social contract as the basis of the state, which he shares with Hobbes, Rousseau, Kant, Pufendorf and, most recently, Rawls, is also a flawed concept. The question of the origin of the state in a social contract, if this is at all justified, is one of dubious historicity and is, as such, of purely academic or antiquarian interest. In addition, the presence of hierarchy in all of today's societies rules out even a remote idea of the origin of society in a social bond between consenting equals. The statement also bedevils views accepted by the majority of anthropologists today. To submit to a contract forged in the distant past is tantamount to allowing the future to be governed by the past and is, as such, a formula for creating a fixed, crystallised and dead society. Locke's system of enfranchising only propertyed white male adults has today been subjected to scathing criticisms by feminists, among others, for being a sham liberal piety that would not eliminate divisions and provide a more just social order, but would only perpetuate inequality and oppression. This criticism is equally inappropriate, as a non-exploitative society is virtually inconceivable, though it does throw light on the contradictions that beset Locke's theory. Nevertheless, Locke does offer a highly valuable injunction, calling for the subjects of an oppressive ruler, when the burden grows too heavy on them, to &quot;appeal to heaven&quot;, that is to say, to rise in revolt. This sentiment is expected of one such as Locke, who witnessed the 1688 revolution that led to the overthrow of Charles II. Still, an essential tome for outlining the foundations of liberal politics.n, calling for the subjects of an oppressive ruler, when the burden grows too heavy on them, to &quot;appeal to heaven&quot;, that is to say, to rise in revolt. This sentiment is expected of one such as Locke, who witnessed the 1688 revolution that led to the overthrow of Charles II. Still, an essential tome for outlining the foundations of liberal politics.	2001-04-23
US	50719867	R1P0NOVX3SLRQT	0674624262	874076920	Nietzsche: Life as Literature	Books	5	30	36	N	N	Ingenious reformulation of Nietzsche's key ideas	Nietzsche's &quot;aestheticist&quot; turn, in Alexander Nehamas's ingenious exposition, is twofold. First, he interpreted the entire world as an enormous literary text. Secondly, he was preoccupied by creating, through the medium of his texts, a specific personality, which as Nehamas contends, was Nietzsche himself. He argues that Nietzsche's key ideas, such as the will to power, nihilism, his view of truth, his ideas on cruelty, the overman and the dreadful doctrine of the eternal recurrence (which Nehamas interprets as a psychological, as opposed to cosmological, conception) were all fused into Nietzsche's aestheticist model of &quot;self-creation&quot;. In a move of apocalyptic boldness, Nehamas claims that the figure of the overman which Nietzsche held in such high regard, was actually Nietzsche himself as he fashioned himself through his texts, a unique individual who affirmed the sum-total of life, which includes, of course, the suffering entailed in living. The literary analogues that Nehamas uses to illustrate Nietzsche's fundamental concepts are highly illuminating. Above all, Nehamas implies that theoretical knowledge is empty compared to the radical philosophy pursued by Nietzsche, which resulted in a synthetic merging of life with art. This philosophy, combining self-reference with self-creation was why Nietzsche was, and is, &quot;the first Modernist as well as the last Romantic.&quot; Along with Walter Kaufmann's &quot;Nietzsche: Philosopher, Psychologist, Anti-Christ&quot;, this book is possibly the best book on Nietzsche available in English.	2001-04-23
US	50719867	R4W1SKGDO6UDR	0826400930	227308600	Dialectic of Enlightenment	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Culture as a new barbarism	&quot;Dialectic of Enlightenment&quot;, one of the most celebrated texts of the Frankfurt School, endeavours to answer why modernity, instead of fulfilling the promises of the Enlightenment (e.g. progress, reason, order) has sunk into a new barbarism. Drawing on their own work on the &quot;culture industry&quot;, as well as the ideas of the key thinkers of the Enlightenment project, (Descartes, Newton, Kant) Horkheimer and Adorno explain how the Enlightenment's orientation towards rational calculability and man's domination of a disenchanted nature evinces a reversion to myth, and is responsible for the reified structures of modern administered society, which has grown to resemble a new enslavement. Furthermore, Horkheimer's and Adorno's treatise was one of the most ambitious attempts to synthesise Marxist economic analysis with Freudian psychoanalysis, and is developed with much complexity and skill. Their philosophical and psychological critique of the Enlightenment concepts of reason and nature (which they identify as the loci of domination) spans almost the entire history of Western thought up until recent times, from Homer to Nietzsche. The book was written in 1944, during a phase of the war when the threat of Fascist victory still hung ominously over Europe, and when Horkheimer and Adorno themselves had to flee Germany to America. &quot;Dialectic of Enlightenment&quot; thus represents one of the most pessimistic strands of Marxist thought, giving up all expectations of a people's revolution in Western Europe. This was, in addition to the outbreak of the Second World War, due to the meteoric rise of extremely right-wing reactionary parties in the twenties, and their subsequent popularity, which ruled out by fiat any chance of a popular support for the left. The proletariat, instead of embracing the cause of the people's revolution, opted to give their vote to the Fascists. In their psychoanalytic investigation of this phenomena, Horkheimer and Adorno identify the rise of Fascism with the return of the repressed.	2001-04-12
US	50719867	R3U4AS5504OGWU	0520224906	77407604	The Art of Living: Socratic Reflections from Plato to Foucault (Sather Classical Lectures)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The Art of Living	Contrary to what one of the reviewers below contends, little knowledge of the figures under discussion is required on the part of the reader. This is owing to Alexander Nehamas's skill in lucidly and masterfully conveying the key ideas of the philosophers he brings under analysis. Although &quot;The Art of Living&quot; is not an explicit demand for a reorientation of philosophy, and a call for its rechannelling towards abandoning the realm of pure theory in favour of a more practical end, it nevertheless attempts to draw attention to an alternative style of philosophising which enjoins that philosophy ought to make itself subservient to the practicalities of life. This trend flourished mainly in ancient Greece, particularly in the enigma of Socrates, (the preeminent exemplum of the &quot;art of living&quot;) until it was eclipsed by the now dominant tradition that emphasises theoretical knowledge, later to be revived by such figures as Montaigne, Nietzsche and Foucault, whose aesthicist stance Nehamas chooses as a point of departure. He evaluates, in the first book of his study, the figure of Socrates, as presented in the dialogues of Plato, and how he, in his philosophical endeavour, succeeded in fashioning a work of art out of himself or, in Nehamas's words, creating himself as a unique personality. Nehamas also explains how Montaigne, Nietzsche and Foucault, sought and, succeeded in realising, similar projects for themselves, absorbing Socrates's ironic silence about himself as well as reacting against it, in their bid for &quot;self-creation&quot; via the medium of their texts. It is by this aestheticist turn that Nehamas designates the &quot;art of living&quot;, a uniquely particularlist and individualist praxis of philosophising, enabling a subordination of theoretical knowledge to actual experience. Knowledge, as Nehamas seems to imply, must be lived in order to be truly understood. The major shortcoming of the book, I felt, was the chapter on Montaigne, which was extremely tedious, though, on the whole, an outstanding and fulfilling treatise.	2001-04-05
US	50719867	R2N9HJFJBXHR56	0965032418	244139654	Psychopathia Sexualis -- A Clinical-Forensic Study	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Pioneering text of crimonological psychology	Though it is difficult to obtain nowadays, this is a classic compendium of some 230 case histories dealing with sexual perversions, presented in often fascinating detail. The terminology may have changed since the compilation of these &quot;pathologies&quot;, which range from lustmurder, &quot;contrary sexual instinct&quot;, (homosexuality) frottage, masochism, sadism, sadomasochism, ideal sadism and pederasty. Though presented in a spare, descriptive, purportedly detached tone, it cannot be denied that Krafft-Ebing's purpose is not to offer an objective analysis, but to assume also the role of a guardian of moral order: a prognostician and theraputician of the deviances and illnesses that menace society. This role can only be fully understood in the context of his time, which unambiguously asserted the type of patriarchal masculinity and the sanctity of the monogamous bourgeois family. Under this standard, any &quot;deviance&quot; from these norms was not to be simply addressed by curative means, but also punitive ones. It would be interesting to put into contraposition the rhetorics and paradigms of Krafft-Ebing and Foucault, who, in more recent years, provided masterful and penetrating insights into the epistemic and discursive formations that have been used in modern society to regulate and police sexual behaviour, as in the nineteenth century's obligation to pathologise homosexuality as an &quot;aberration&quot;, a category rejected in the mainstream of the West. Though it must be of great interest to students of forensic medicine and clinical psychiatry, this study would also be equally appreciated by non-specialist readers who are interested in the subject of sexual deviance.	2001-04-01
US	50719867	R34SDPA8J9DKP5	0674267206	38740728	The Essays of Ralph Waldo Emerson (Collected Works of Ralph Waldo Emerson)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Ralph Waldo Emersom: an appreciation	Although he was considered during his lifetime to be a profoundly radical thinker, Emerson, the Transcendentalist chief, after his death, was soon reinterpreted as a bland Bostonian Brahmin, a mystic anarchist who was only brave on paper. It cannot be denied that his philosophy of a joyful and affirmationist acceptance of life, and of nature, his anti-slavery activities, his attacks on the state and on the sensualism of bourgeois society, could have easily provided the formula for a complete overthrow of the moral order of his time. His libertarian thrust, his serene integrity, his indefatiguable optimism and common sense, however, will continue to find admirers, notwithstanding the fact that political identifications have changed and emphases have shifted, or otherwise one can simply enjoy the polished beauty of his prose style. Though by no means a deep thinker, Emerson's brilliantly epigrammatic, allusive, declamatory, pithy style provides instances where the reader may extrapolate a number of meanings from even the shortest utterances, and it is due to this quality, perhaps, that the Emerson enigma came into being, enabling him to appeal to such numerous and diverse temperaments. His best essays include &quot;The Over-Soul&quot;, &quot;Compensation&quot;, &quot;Self-Reliance&quot; and &quot;Manners&quot;, in which he preaches, in the rhetorical manner reminiscent of his background as a Unitarian minister, his ideals of contenment, joy, independence and self-confidence -- tonics of the soul.	2001-03-29
US	50719867	R2TFE3OSERYMPU	0374525285	828207438	Hunger: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The hinterlands of reason	&quot;Hunger&quot; (1890) is decades ahead of its time, in its precise attention to narrative construction and its superbly wrought psychological realism. The central character is a famished writer struggling to remain alive, wandering from place to place in a forbidding Norwegian city, writing monographs and pawning his few possessions in the hope of sustaining himself. Perhaps the term &quot;psychological novel&quot; may be too out-of-date even when applied to this novel of Hamsun's, though it cannot be denied that it substantially anticipates the work of Kafka, Camus, Joyce and Kelman, particularly in its use of interior monologue, or &quot;stream of consciousness&quot;, whereby the roving thoughts of the distraught protagonist are painstakingly recorded. In a way that, it could be said, rivals even Dostoevsky, Hamsun explores the deepest and remotest corners of his protagonist's thought, which verges on the uncanny and the irrational, revealing his character's bizarre responses to his circumstances, his frenzies, his caprices and his unpredictable switches from euphoria and despair. It must be admitted that the episode in which the chief character begins a liason with a demi-mondaine is no less great than the scene in &quot;Crime and Punishment&quot; during which Raskolnikov supplicates the prostitute for her prayers. This book is a Modernist classic on all counts, and an ambitious experiment with emotions and feelings that few writers have dared to express or recognise.	2001-03-27
US	50719867	R2L748ZKBYERVI	0871401479	66584244	Complete Poems of Hart Crane	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A martyr in art	Beautifully written, Crane's poetic compositions, with their choice diction, dense and imaginative allegories and technical virtuosity, fall easily into the category of the poetry of \\"sensation\\", that is say, poetry characterised chiefly by the registering of impressions. It must be acknowledged that Crane's gifts were best suited to the lyric form. His accomplished style, rhetorical, incantatory, inventive and rhapsodic, steeped in Symbolism and Romanticism, places him above the entire gallery of American Modernist poets. The poetry of Crane, Whitman's proper heir, while pregnant with symbol and allusion, and broad in intellectual reference, does not grow to become forced, pedantic and overlearned as that of Pound. His protests, his struggles, his torments are no less significant than those of Jeffers, though Crane could at least avoid the latter's preaching and occasional pomposity. Above all, he was the poet of \\"sensation\\" par excellence, endowed with a capacity for disclosing the furthest and deepest reaches of emotion and feeling, by virtue of his high poetic gifts. Prodigiously talented and doom-laden, Crane, in spiritual kinship with Rimbaud and Shelley, lived as though he were tyrannised, without respite, by Furies he could not conciliate, developing into a compulsive and violent drunk, battling his homosexual urgings, braving the tide of public opinion, which regarded him as a social outcast, and finally plunging to his death in the ocean (which serves in so many of his poems as a symbol of death) at the age of thirty-two. Few martyrs in art have suffered more painfully. Few have endured more grievous torments. All the more are we compelled to admire Crane's stoicism. &quot;Impavidum ferient ruinae&quot;.	2001-03-24
US	50719867	R1QW0DNKM0E6G4	0192823671	249230335	Against Nature (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	An anti-natural decadent	Huysmans' account of Des Esseintes's retreat into hermetic chambers, his cultivation of his overly refined tastes and forays into arcane erudition - (all rendered in an idiosyncratic idiom that avails itself of recherch details and descriptions)- stands as one of the most striking of the novels of the literary decadence, the movement which propounded a cult of the artificial in combination with a studied amorality. The anti hero, or non-hero, of &quot;Against Nature&quot;, Des Esseintes, an eccentric, neurasthenic, and a scion of an ancient ducal title, derives seemingly immense gratification from his amoral antics, as in his ruining the marriage of his friend, D' Aigurande, and also the episode in which he leads a teenage urchin to a brothel, with a view to corrupting him, and thus breeding him into a murderer, \\"one enemy the more,\\" he declares, \\"of the hideous society which is bleeding us white.\\" In his isolated domicile, he banishes all that is natural and becomes a connossieur of the artificial. Some of his bizarre experiments consist in his smelling the \\"colour\\" of his perfumes, and his \\"hearing\\" the music of his liqueurs. The novel, which is highly experimental in form and almost dispenses altogether with a narrative structure, is also one of the most subversive, a defiant cry against the supposedly Philistine standards dominating art and design and the increasing respectability of the artistic profession. Required reading for those who delight in the criminal, the perverse, the morbid and the exotic.	2001-03-14
US	50719867	R2WJFOJ3LQOO83	0872201376	64542062	Republic (Hackett Classics)	Books	4	6	9	N	N	An enemy of the arts?	Plato's hostility to the mimetic arts, his metaphysic of suprasensible Forms and his vision of the authoritarian ideal republic have made him a figure of some notoriety in the history of philosophy, leading his opponents to interpret him, quite variously as a Philistine, an elitist, a Father of Lies, a slanderer of reality, an ideologue of totalitarianism and, most controversially, as an enemy of the arts. Iris Murdoch, in her amusing and entertaining study, &quot;The Fire and the Sun, Why Plato Banished the Poets&quot; reproaches him for his \\"puritanical aesthetic.\\" He places all crafts, arts or skills (techne) on a hierarchy of the least useful or genuine, namely, the representational arts, then the more genuine, such as woodcraft and medicine, culminating in the highest and most rewarding, philosophical contemplation, of which only philosopher-rulers are capable; that is to say, those who have achieved self-control and who are adept at disputation and dialectic skill, in their pursuit of the truth of the pure Forms. A binary opposition exists between knowledge, (episteme) which is the understanding of the pure Forms, and mere opinion. (doxa) Knowledge is denied to the mimetic arts (poetry, music, the visual arts) which stand at the third remove from truth and which are false, illusory copies of the objects of the sensible world, that are themselves inferior replicas of their truer, more perfect Forms. As such, artists stand at the lowest cognitive level. The chief good being the formation of the ideal republic, Plato saw it reasonable for the legislator, the philosopher-ruler, to outlaw all forms of art, such as tragedy, which may represent undesirable actions, such as weeping, boisterousness and so forth, since they may tempt spectators to behave intemperately and hence induce moral corruption. He believed that the soul was vulnerable to the influences of strong emotions, such as grief and pity; spectators of tragedy may empathise with the unfortunate characters to such a degree that they neglect the pursuit of virtue and their specialised role in the republic. The good of art must be subordinated to the good of the republic. Only art which is closely related to beauty, which is in turn, a measure of truth and goodness, can be permitted. Young guardians must be prevented, by means of censorship, of coming into contact with poetry and stories that portray the gods in a bad light. Poets must be banished from the republic, on account of their spurious claim to the knowledge of the events they represent. Art, in Plato, is thus distinctly separated from knowledge. Not only that, but it is even regarded as positively detrimental to it. It comes as a paradox, however, that Plato was himself an accomplished mimetic artist, as his virtuosity in using the dialogue form attests. Indeed, &quot;The Republic&quot; is possibly the finest Socratic dialogue. His regard for the arts was indubitably high. Plato does also say at one point that art must be judged on the terms of its own level of \\"reality\\" since it is nevertheless capable of genuine representations that correspond to actual states (as opposed to apparent, illusory states) of the good.to such a degree that they neglect the pursuit of virtue and their specialised role in the republic. The good of art must be subordinated to the good of the republic. Only art which is closely related to beauty, which is in turn, a measure of truth and goodness, can be permitted. Young guardians must be prevented, by means of censorship, of coming into contact with poetry and stories that portray the gods in a bad light. Poets must be banished from the republic, on account of their spurious claim to the knowledge of the events they represent. Art, in Plato, is thus distinctly separated from knowledge. Not only that, but it is even regarded as positively detrimental to it. It comes as a paradox, however, that Plato was himself an accomplished mimetic artist, as his virtuosity in using the dialogue form attests. Indeed, &quot;The Republic&quot; is possibly the finest Socratic dialogue. His regard for the arts was indubitably high. Plato does also say at one point that art must be judged on the terms of its own level of \\"reality\\" since it is nevertheless capable of genuine representations that correspond to actual states (as opposed to apparent, illusory states) of the good.	2001-03-14
US	50719867	R2TLUKMPN1Y41A	0671722719	43217624	Julius Caesar (The New Folger Library Shakespeare)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Shakespeare's vying supermen	&quot;Julius Caesar&quot;, as a play, breathes the altogether purer air of antique virtues. The action centres around the ambitions and loyalties, both personal and political, of Shakespeare's supermen, Brutus, Caesar, Cassius and Mark Antony. The ending sees the suicide of Brutus, properly the play's dramatic hero. Sincere but blind, Brutus, is motivated by the greater good of restoring the Republic to such an extent that he is willing to sacrifice even his dearest friend, Caesar, to this design. Swayed by the spiteful malcontent Cassius, he unwisely underestimates Mark Antony, who emerges as a formidable adversary of Brutus's. Haunted by Caesar's spirit, which indicates that his influence will also prove to be posthumous, Brutus realises his error and submits to his fate. The notion of Brutus's \\"noble suicide\\", which is repugnant to Christian doctrine, is introduced in the end by Shakespeare, fully evoking Brutus's greatness of soul in avenging the friend he killed, Caesar, by killing himself: \\"Caesar now be still./I killed not thee with half so good a will.\\" As a worthy character, he devises a grand plan but fails and so submits to his own code. He punishes Caesar for his ambition and then punishes himself for his own. Unlike &quot;Hamlet&quot;, &quot;Julius Caesar&quot; is more compact, less complex. The action and psychological characterisation are simpler and the language is more hard-trimmed. The tragic elements of error and chance are present throughout the play and the ending neatly combines an address of the tragic hero's principal flaw and a meting out of justice.	2001-03-14
US	50719867	R18WGL97DK60SV	0140390448	397623101	Walden and Civil Disobedience (Penguin American Library)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The Transcendentalist Savage	Scorning the mass slavery of modern industrial society, Thoreau conducted his most famous experiment in life: to live in solitude in a shack he builds himself on the edge of Walden Pond, on the land of Emerson, with whom he lived as a handyman and pupil. Thoreau, clearly, was no less radical than his mentor, Emerson, though he differs at least in the fact that he was not merely content with preaching, but actually strove to put his ideals into practice. The book is a profound statement of Transcendentalist individualism and self-reliance and a hymn to nature, contentment and joy. He recounts, at one point, the episode in 1845, during which he was imprisoned for one night for defying the local government and not paying his poll-tax. He mentions, in passing, how he allowed a runaway black slave to have safe passage through the region. His retreat into solitude was partly impelled by his disgust with the war with Mexico, and partly because he could not accept that he could live under a governemnt that was also a slave's government. Thoreau, a neo-Cynic, a modern stoic, emphasises a return to the basic, uncomplicated life, free from the cares and fetters of what he calls &quot;odd-fellow society&quot; and celebrates, above all, simplicity, magnanimity and trust. Glorying in the animal vitality of his body (though he was singularly unable to appreciate women) his ruminations encompass the most prosaic details of life in the woods, such as the migrations of birds, fishing, his own bean-farm, along with powerful insights into self-improvement, learning, generosity and other topics, interspersed with allusions to his favourite literature, the &quot;Iliad&quot; of Homer and the texts of ancient Hindu philosophy and religion. A refreshing and inspiring encounter with a fascinating individual in the history of letters.	2001-03-12
US	50719867	RSTHHHU6CBN6G	0140446362	772890581	Poetics (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	10	16	N	N	The basis of dramatic creativity	Aristotle's &quot;Poetics&quot; attempts to enquire into the qualities requisite for the production of epics, the visual arts and tragedies and, in the process, he establishes concepts that have since become the cornerstones of Western dramatic and literary practice, as well as aesthetic theory. The greater part of the work is taken up by the investigation of tragedy, in which Aristotle enjoins that the perfect tragedy must have certain features: unity (of time, place and action) and completeness (consistency of plot and of the causal and psychological relations in the characters' behaviour). He also defines magnitude, (the amount of incident in a tragedy) as well as the reversals and recognitions that lead to the conclusion of the play. An important formulation is &quot;hamartia&quot;, the tragic flaw (Othello's jealousy or Hamlet's indecision, for instance) which precipitate the protagonist's undoing. However, Aristotle's thesis, maintaining that the origin of art is in imitation, has been proven to be an untenable standpoint. Imitation is merely a mode of art, not the source of it, which is, in fact, emotion. The definition of comedy, on the other hand, is missing and, moreover, the text is corrupt and the arguments are elliptical and confusing. Aristotle's most famous conception arrived at in the &quot;Poetics&quot; -- (the purging, or &quot;catharsis&quot; of the emotions of pity and terror) which is assumed to be the principal role of tragedy, is much overrated. Basing his insight on ancient organ psychology, he makes a statement that contradicts some known facts. It is a fact that in the case of some strong emotions - such as  distress or the physical act of lovemaking, for instance - the drive does not undergo a release, but is actually strengthened in the long term, regardless of its temporary abatement. Why must it be otherwise with pity and terror? Does not catharsis apply to other strong emotions as well or is it only just pity and terror? What strikes one as absurd is Aristotle's belief, or apparent belief, that there were organs that produced pity and terror and it was the objective of tragedy to empty these organs of their harmful contents. In this respect, Nietzsche (and also Plato) were correct. Aristotle was wrong.	2001-03-11
US	50719867	RSXA8KGC2WORB	0195136314	561580772	Hitler: Diagnosis of a Destructive Prophet	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Fritz Redlich: Diagnostician of Tyranny	The first study of Hitler to be undertaken by a trained psychiatrist and medical expert, Redlich's book amasses a huge fund of data in an attempt to see how far Hitler's medical history, his illnesses, influenced his behaviour and personality. The first part is a thorough account of the events, personal and political, that shaped Hitler's life, from his childhood, his poverty in Vienna, his miltary service, his political activity up to the seizure of power, up to and including the Second World War. The second part attempts to apply psychiatric and psychoanalytic methods to the same events, by examining them in the light of Hitler's various illnesses and traumas. Redlich discusses Hitler's vegetarianism, his rage attacks, his abstinence from alcohol and nicotine, his alleged genital abnormality, his sex life, Parkinson's disease, psychotic and retarded members of his family tree and -- most controversially -- his supposed addiction to amphetamines and how this affected s!ome of his tactical and strategic mistakes towards the end of the war, e.g. the invasion of Russia and the declaration of war against the United States. Aware of the difficulties that confront anyone who undertakes such an ambitious project as a \\"pathography\\" of someone who has been dead for over half a century, Redlich avoids easy conclusions. He admits the limitations of the psychoanalytic method (i.e. evaluation, with the object of unlocking the analysand's personality, of parapraxias, [slips of the tongue], impulsive actions, the imagery in his speeches, etc.) His also stresses the limitations imposed on the research by the psychiatric method and empasises, above all, that no such analysis can be impartial, as the data presented by the researcher would inevitably be selective. Redlich nevertheless succeeds in shattering some myths that have surrounded the personality of Hitler. He does not shrink from passing judgement on his subject, describing him as a paranoid, dangerou!s, insecure and ambivalent prophet, the most destructive individual in the history of mankind.	2001-03-05
US	50719867	R2E8GPLVWZCSXX	0876857845	118674223	Tarr: The 1918 Version	Books	3	10	14	N	N	The master race of artists	In his first novel, set in the cafes and nightspots of Paris during the beginning of the twentieth century, Wyndham Lewis presents the reader with a gallery of figures who live as a master race of artists. The action consists mostly of rows, one culminating in violence, during which the cast of poseurs and atavists engage in esoteric debates, which enable Lewis to weave in his own political and artistic concerns into the manifold of polemic. Typically of his novels, with their Fascist, racist, sexist, elitist biases, &quot;Tarr&quot; pulls no punches, assailing conventional bourgeois values in art and culture and proclaiming the figure of the artist as supreme. Along with Ezra Pound, Lewis was the founder of Vorticism, the British counterpart of Futurism, and also the joint editor of Blast!, the magazine in which Vorticist views were enunciated. With its glorification of velocity, violence, modernity and the machine, Vorticism's major tenets are consistently applied in the novel, with its brutal, striking, seemingly spontaneous prose style and its portrayal of the artist as a sort of automaton who will risk everything to attain his end, regardless of the damage that this may cause to others. However, the novel is let down by its lack of incident and the way in which the author blatantly allows his characters to act as mouthpieces for views which are clearly his own. A minor, and now almost forgotten, classic.	2001-03-05
US	50719867	R25H6U3K0GCGR2	0811210308	58288131	Mister Johnson (Revived Modern Classic)	Books	3	19	20	N	N	A colonial tragi-comedy	&quot;Mister Johnson&quot;, by Joyce Cary, is a tale of an intriguing, quixotic native character, set in colonial Nigeria. Cary draws on his own experiences as a colonial official in Nigeria, drawing a rich, topical, authentic picture of the country during the early thirties. The eponymous anti-hero, referred to only as &quot;Johnson&quot;, is a pathetic creation who sees himself as an enthusiast for Empire, a champion of progress and civilisation, with the King of England numbering among his friends. In reality, he is despised by his European boss, Rudbeck, as a member of an inferior race. Johnson's life, his attempt to to become more English than the English, is set precariously between these two extremes -- the urgings of superiority and the reality of degradation, eventually leading him to the gallows. The story's culmination, involving larceny, treachery and murder, sees Johnson emerging as a pathetic but genuinely human creation, whose plight is an illustration of a genuine human dilemma.	2001-03-05
US	50719867	R21LPEDT7Q915E	0192836218	942624713	Selected Essays (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Highly entertaining corpus of essays	Written in the highly polished Augustan prose style of the period, this is a fine selection of essays from the pen of the great Scottish philosopher, historian and economist, David Hume. The essays range from aesthetics, commerce, history and ethics, which include such pieces as &quot;The Epicurean&quot;, &quot;The Stoic&quot; and &quot;The Sceptic&quot; (Hume's own credo) all which are rather curiously positioned and excellently written guides to living. &quot;Of the Immortality of the Soul&quot; and &quot;Of Suicide&quot;, two of Hume's most controversial essays touching on theological topics, are also included in this volume. Both succeeded, with their bold, original arguments, in outraging the British clergy, which helps us to understand why Hume decided to have them published posthumously.	2001-03-05
US	50719867	RTS77VI7PW3OC	0684818949	59017278	Cry, The Beloved Country	Books	3	3	6	N	N	The most acclaimed novel of South African race relations	The story of Kumalo, a Zulu minister who travels to Johanesburg to look for his son, is a highly charged tale of delinquency, race hatred, prostitution, murder and eventual reconciliation in the big city. Some passages resonate with a lyrical, almost magical quality and the prose is deft and extremely supple. However, the plot is bogged down towards the middle of the book by some ill-timed excursions into South African politics and the ending is telegraphed a hundred pages in advance. These sections, I felt, could have been better woven-in into the novel's dramatic fabric. Though it is highly recommended for being the book that whipped up a worldwide whirlwind of awareness of South Africa and the injustices of apartheid, it is a taxing and artistically disappointing work.	2001-02-20
US	50719867	R4YH3KV8MFWA8	0140714871	855758316	Timon of Athens (The Pelican Shakespeare)	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Scandalously underrated	Timon, a wealthy, generous Athenian, is a man who never hesitates to help his friends in need. However, when he falls in dire straits and is forced to sell his property, he is deserted by all those who know him. Afflicted with a venomous hatred of mankind, he retreats into the forest, adopts a diet of roots and denounces his fellow humans in soliloquies of the most towering passion and most bitter invective. &quot;Timon of Athens&quot; should rank amongst Shakespeare's greatest and most renowned tragedies. It is a mature work, displaying much linguistic virtusoity, charm of expression and highly imaginative images and allegories. It is hard to imagine why so  many critics are dead-set against acknowledging it for the masterpiece it is. It possibly contains the direst abuse of human fickleness and folly and the most nihilistic (and most moving) yearning for death and extinction on the part of the maligned Timon. The real stealer of the play, however, is Timon's foil, the philosopher, Apemantus. Embodying the most systematic misanthrophy, he smilingly and scornfully looks on Timon's open-handedness during his days of prosperity. Their encounter later in the forest is one of the most gripping of confrontations in literary history, containing some of the most exciting exchanges and the most inflammatory put-downs. A sadly unrecognised masterpiece.	2001-02-12
US	50719867	RDV1USQYJTLH3	0393001490	18647716	Leonardo da Vinci and a Memory of His Childhood (The Standard Edition)  (Complete Psychological Works of Sigmund Freud)	Books	3	11	12	N	N	Sublimation, Eros and Vultures	Freud's attempt to apply the concepts and generalisations of psychoanalysis to the Universal Man, Leonardo da Vinci. The formulations reached in the book have now become &quot;pop-Freudian&quot; cliches: the subject was doted on by his mother, neglected by his father and therefore developed a homosexual streak. What occured exactly, according to Freud, was an inordinate Oedipal development in which the subject took his father's domination of the mother as a &quot;de facto&quot; domination (hence prohibition on the father's part) of *all* women and hence it triggered a shift from heterosexual to homosexual tendencies. Freud applies his doctrine of infantile sexuality to address other topics such as Leonardo's prodigious genius, his scientific pursuits and the fact that he left so many works unfinished. The study is speculative and tendentious and, which is more, it is marred by an egregious error in the translation of one of Leonardo's notebooks. Its major shortcoming is its rather reckless and overconfident attempt to reconstruct the psycholgy of a man dead for centuries. For zealous partisans of psychoanalysis only, or for those who have an academic interest in the subject.	2001-02-12
US	50719867	RETMKKL2DQO5N	014045019X	815414362	Man and Superman : A Comedy and a Philosophy	Books	5	27	29	N	N	Pure Bergsonism	George Bernard Shaw was called, with good reason, the &quot;English Nietzsche&quot;. Though Nietzsche was an aristocrat and Shaw a socialist, both cherished the dream of the superman and looked forward to the day when he would be realised. Both, however, were characterised by their mordant wit and intellectual cynicism, in which &quot;Man and Superman&quot; abounds. Shaw manages to compress a number of disparate themes into a relatively taut dramatic format, even throwing in a scene in which Don Juan, the Devil and a gang of anarchist brigands make an appearance. The central event of the plot involves the wealthy Tanner, a member of the &quot;Idle Rich Class&quot; making himself subservient to the Life Force and seeking the perfect woman to marry, who would guarantee him a very special offspring, his ideal, the superman himself. Though Shaw was not known to have read the works of Bergson at that time, nor to have been conversant with his vitalist doctrine of the Life Force, his use of the Life Force motif and the philosophical underpinnings of the play attest to a pure Bergsonism. The most delightful part, however, is the &quot;Revolutionist's Handbook&quot; at the end, which contains Shaw's most scandalous anti-Establishment jibes. For instance, &quot;Do not do unto others as you would them do unto you. They might not have the same taste.&quot;	2001-02-12
US	50719867	R1HLGMO80WG79W	0060904305	141591378	Poetry, Language, Thought	Books	3	41	46	N	N	The ontology of Art and Truth	Heidegger does not address the issue of poetry and truth from the vantage point of a traditional or academic art historian; nor does he employ conventional terms and classifications. Instead, he arrives at his subjects experimentally and tangentially and firmly grounds them on the approach of &quot;ontological knowledge&quot; which has made him famous. His highly idiosyncratic style, however,  often playing with the cognate forms of the words of the original German, and which eludes translation, may make his arguments seem imprecise and willfully obscure. Though &quot;Poetry, Language, Thought&quot; is a collection of essays collected from Heidegger's miscellaneous later writings, it is no less formidable than &quot;Being and Time&quot;, his masterpiece of ontological enquiry, published in 1927. The most beautiful formulation in the book is that truth is, by its very nature, poetic and this for Heidegger, does not imply a polarity between verse and prose, but actually includes prose as well. In &quot;The Origin of the Work of Art&quot;, he defines the truth of the art work as being the setting-up of the art work in relation to the undisclosedness of Being, a conclusion which he argues up to at great length and with much skill and profundity. Like Wittgenstein and Derrida, Heidegger is not a philosopher in the traditional sense who aims to provide an all-embracing theory that would explain ultimate reality. He does not pretend to a First Philosophy which is based on some abstraction such as Reason, the Proletariat or the World Spirit. Rather, he is something of an exegete and experimentalist, probing the assumptions behind people's habits of speech and thought in a way of clarifying central misconceptions and errors. The volume also includes essays titled &quot;What are Poets For?&quot;, &quot;Building Dwelling Thinking&quot; and a discourse on &quot;The Thing&quot;, &quot;thingness&quot;, or &quot;thinghood&quot;. Heidegger's own poems, which are prefixed to the edition, may be flawed as art, but they serve, at least, to adumbrate the problems that occupy him in the following chapters.	2001-02-08
US	50719867	R1RF2QFEQ4VZDQ	0679722068	282010593	Death in Venice: And Seven Other Stories	Books	3	15	19	N	N	The return of the repressed/Dionysos	Aschenbach, an ageing, ascetic author makes up his mind to visit Venice in the hope of encountering &quot;distant scenes&quot;. There he becomes wildly infatuated with a fourteen-year-old Polish boy, the Hyacinth of myth, named Tazio. The narrative centres around the fumbling and pathetic attempts made by the protagonist to address the object of his love, eventually resulting in the death of the aged Aschenbach. Mann seems interested in establishing parallels between Aschenbach's condition and the ideals of classical antiquity, as the substantial [mis]-quotations from Plato's &quot;Phaedrus&quot; make clear. However, the story lends itself to other interpretations, such as the asethetics of Nietzsche, with its duality of &quot;Apollinism&quot; and &quot;Dionysism&quot;, of which Mann was a fervent disciple. Aschenbach's dignified, ordered, rational, harmonious, Apolline existence can be read as being ruptured by the irrational force of the Dionysian, the instinct of intoxication and self-destructive excess. Similarly, Mann's portrayal of Aschenbach's infatuation with Tazio can be interpreted along Freudian lines. What of the scene in which Aschenbach is set to leave Venice but loses his bags, then returns and it is only *after* the fact that he discovers the real reason for his return? This is clearly a dramatisation of what Freud terms neurosis, the conflict between an unconscious desire and a prohibitive command of the conscious. The elevated, detached, &quot;objective&quot; style shows Mann to have been committed to the classical paradigms of narrative and composition and, in this respect, he invites comparison with Flaubert.	2001-02-07
US	50719867	R7V6792CWVP58	1878465155	225216099	Heredity and Humanity: Race, Eugenics and Modern Science	Books	3	11	16	N	N	Impressive case for eugenic reform	Roger Pearson's &quot;Heredity and Humanity&quot; admirably manages to compress a wealth of scientific and historical data into a relatively slim volume. The book is a fierce polemic against biologistic egalitarianism, as embodied in the scientific agendas of various liberal, Marxist and Judaeo-Christian trends of thought, -- all which Pearson dismisses as being rooted in dangerous ethical biases. His main thesis is that these ideologies, which at times impose extreme forms of scientific environmentarianism, encourage policies which are actually hostile to life by sanctioning the lives of the defective at the expense of the healthy. He argues that the dysgenic trends fostered over thousands of years need be drastically countered by means of eugenics, which is to say, selective breeding of the most fit and successful. He distinguishes between two versions: (a) negative eugenics: the elimination of unhealthy specimens from the gene pool and (b) positive eugenics: the enhanced selection of specimens which are more likely to be more successful. Admittedly, Pearson's recommendations may seem impracticable at the present limited stage of our knowledge, and as genetic surgery, or &quot;gene splicing&quot;, is still in its infancy in the context of the modern genome project. The most contentious argument in the book, however, is the claim that intelligence, physical prowess and health, etc., are, to a great extent, hereditable, and that the genome is far more basic than environmental factors in determining the constitution of given species or individuals. This leads Pearson to trace the evolutionary history of the human race, to chart the processes of speciation, and the development of the gene pool from relative uniformity to diversity. His findings are astounding and, to some, perhaps, shocking. He quotes a survey conducted by an American sociobiologist which claims, in the sphere of intelligence, (as measured by brian size, IQ, and so forth) that blacks occupy the lowestportion of the scale, East Asians (Chinese, Japanese, Koreans) the highest and whites the intermediate. Black Africans, Pearson argues, remain closest to our primal ancestors, as they had remained in the regions where life itself began and did not experience the selective pressures that other sub-species underwent due to migrations. At one point, Pearson even goes as far as to make a completely unfounded statement, that &quot;It is the opinion of the present author that Western Eurasians [Europeans] were originally more creative than Easterns Eurasians [East Asians] and that Eastern Eurasian civilisation could've only prospered through an injection of Western Eurasian influence.&quot; This is a manifestly false statement that contradicts a number of known facts. And which is more, it is said in bad faith. Another shortcoming of the book was Pearson's relatively uncritical treatment of the pioneers of the eugenics movement itself, such as Galton and Davenport, the movement's dubious origins and its notoriously unscientific approach and clearly racist motivations. Generally, however, Pearson's study, for all its faults, is a rewarding treatise and superb introduction to eugenicist ideas. It is a clarion call for eugenic reform, on the grounds of scientific desirability as well as humanitarian necessity, and a powerful indictment of the hypocrisy and obscurantism that try to conceal their own prejudices from themselves behind the shield of some of today's most dominant ideologies.	2001-02-01
US	50719867	R3UMT14MGWG4AU	1559704713	449886767	All Gall is Divided: Aphorisms	Books	5	20	20	N	N	The most thoroughgoing nihilism	E.M. Cioran, the Romanian decadent writer and anti-philosopher, stands firmly alongside the great aphorists, La Rouchefoucald, Lichtenberg, Nietzsche, with this compilation of stiletto epigrams. Paradoxical and iconoclastic, he treats of subjects as varied as language, death, music, despair, philosophy, religion and love. He represents one of the most unrelenting currents in nihilist thought, as he directs the solvent of his scepticism against everything -- (even scepticism itself) -- all with the most polished prose and a hard, gem-like brilliance. &quot;The history of ideas is the history of the spite of certain solitaries.&quot; -- &quot;Leukemia is the garden where God blooms.&quot; -- &quot;The Creation was the first act of sabotage.&quot; -- &quot;For two thousand years, Jesus has revenged himself on us for not having died on a sofa.&quot; -- &quot;Events -- tumours of Time.&quot; Of such a quality are Cioran's rapier-sharp aphorisms. However, the beauty of his style draws our attention to another, more deep-lying paradox. That in his distrust of humanity, his yearning for extinction and hatred of life, Cioran, with his tremendous stylistic gifts, actually succeeds in finding a route towards affirming life all the more happily and courageously. Even the strength of a certain drive to nothingness, this quanta of the hatred of life, converts itself, in spite of itself, as an ever more potent stimulant to life.	2001-01-28
US	50719867	R17E9OZHI84UQX	0811208478	148567452	Journey to the End of the Night (English and French Edition)	Books	1	28	69	N	N	Grossly overrated	Celine belongs to the school of such literary dynamitards as Lautremont and Henry Miller. &quot;Journey Into the End of the Night&quot;, which has been acclaimed as one of the most subversive and radical books of the twentieth century, however, fails to match either Lautremont or Miller in terms of content or style. Though it's fuelled by the same spirit of discontent and loathing of humanity, Celine's effort is an unmistakably drab and plodding in comparison. His writing fails to exude the aroma of malice so potently diffused by the &quot;Chants du Maldoror&quot;; nor does it measure up to the pyrotechnic displays of imagery that characterise Miller's &quot;Tropic of Cancer&quot;. Those who expect the same of Celine will be sorely disappointed. The wearisome plot involves the reflections and tribulations of an insipid hero as he progresses from being a corporal in the First World War, onto his experiences in French colonial Africa and his poverty in Europe and America. All this is told in the driest prose, through 400+ pages that duly tax the reader's attention. Celine's descriptions of war, greed, folly and degradation sound as those of a man of the left, though he was eventually to become a vehement right-winger (like so many men of his generation) and an apologist of Nazism. Not only does his writing not reach the scale and quality of Miller, his descriptions of disease and atrocity in the tropics are even surpassed by the likes of such pro-Establishment birds as Joseph Conrad in his &quot;Heart of Darkness&quot;; similarly, his account of poverty is far inferior to George Orwell's &quot;Down and Out in Paris and London&quot;. It is mystifying how such an incorrigibly poor writer could have risen to a position of such importance among lterary critics and connossieurs.	2001-01-25
US	50719867	R1WI4OM8HA4IK4	0394466152	509335594	Chance and Necessity: An Essay on the Natural Philosophy of Modern Biology	Books	5	76	86	N	N	The philosophy of biology	Jacques Monod, the Nobel Prize winning biochemist, allies himself, in the title of this admirable treatise, to the atomist Democritus, who held that the whole universe is but the fruit of two qualities, chance and necessity. Interpreting the laws of natural selection along purely naturalistic lines, he succeeds in presenting a powerful case that takes into account the ethical, political and philosophical undercurrents of the synthesis in modern biology. Above all, he stresses that science must commit itself to the postulate of objectivity by casting aside delusive ideological and moral props, even though he enjoins, at the same time, that the postulate of objectivity itself is a moral injunction. He launches a bitter polemic against metaphysical and scientific vitalisms, dismissing them as obscurantist, as well as the animist projection in history and evolution, as represented by Teilhard de Chardin and, especially, the Marxist doctrine of dialectical materialism. He refutes teleological explanations of nature as being contrary to the postulate of objectivity, drawing attention to self-constructing proteins as teleonomic agents, followed by an explanation of the role of nucleic acids, reproduction and invariance. This leads him to dismiss Judaeo-Christian religiosity, which accords man a significant role as being created in God's image, as a nauseating and false pietism and he even goes so far as to recommend eugenic reform. Writing with great clarity and flair, and often in a forceful and idiosyncratic idiom, he puts forward a compelling case, though some knowledge of modern biology is presumed on the part of the reader. He also offers, in a truly philosophical fashion, fascinating insights and speculations on broader issues such as language, perception, the origin and nature of existence, as they are framed within his system. Generally, however, some experts and readers will contest some of his claims, such as his regarding proteins as primary, contrary to the common assumption that proteins are merely secondary to the genome. Nevertheless, a challenging, sophisticated and pugnacious treatise, which excels the work of the better-known biological writers in the English-speaking world, such as Dawkins and Gould.	2001-01-21
US	50719867	R1DA9HXDKJ5707	0786700262	721271373	Earthly Powers (Burgess, Anthony)	Books	4	12	13	N	N	A twentieth century panorama	Anthony Burgess presents Toomey, an ageing homosexual writer clearly modelled on W. Somerset Maugham, as a lens through which the events (both glorious and odious) of the twentieth century unfold. The two world wars, the rise of Nazism and Fascism and the growth of black nationalism are all touched upon in this sprawling tapestry. Characteristically of Burgess, the writing displays reserves of linguistic mastery and invention, in its polyglotal puns, clever wordplay and dazzling wit. Toomey's conversations with actual personages, especially in the literary world, such as Joyce, Hemingway, Faulkner, Havelock Ellis and Henry James are delightful and often hilarious, though they barely descend to the level of caricature. What bogs the narrative down, though, are the interminable theological discussions on homosexuality, freedom of the will and sin (one of the lifelong preoccupations of the Catholic nonbeliever Burgess) which sometimes obtrude too noticeably on the plot, despite being integral to it.	2001-01-18
US	50719867	RSW367YTJ3X4X	0930289528	333940954	V for Vendetta	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A soliloquising vigilante	&quot;V for Vendetta&quot; is a cleverly paced and brutally realistic tale set in a nightmare future. The elusive protagonist, a mask-clad vigilante who goes by the initial &quot;V&quot;, sets himself as an adversary to the repressive regime of &quot;Norsefire&quot;, the Fascist organisation that assumed power. The plot abounds in a number of exciting episodes, in which the hero outwits and overpowers his enemies using an array of lethal gadgets and skills in the deadliest martial arts. The story is redeemed by its sense of irony and sarcasm, especially during the soliloquies of the masked avenger, (the parallel with Batman cannot be ignored) in which he denounces the ruling elite with anarchistic phrases and anti-Establishment maledictions, as in the scene in which he scandalously addresses the blinfolded statue of Justice, prior to annihilating it with a bomb disguised as a rose. The &quot;piece du resistance&quot;, however, is his poisoning a corrupt priest with a communion wafer spiked with cyanide... Lashings of humour, of so dark a hue are seldom found. The cinematic conception of the plot, (with &quot;intercutting&quot; between different scenes) the beautiful illustration and the psychological realism in the characterisation attest to the high gifts of Lloyd and Moore in the genre of the graphic novel and I look forward to their other works.	2001-01-18
US	50719867	R1BLSEOMBR1VPD	0460873474	176958724	Ethics Spinoza (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	64	71	N	N	The purest and most beautiful philosophical system	Spinoza's &quot;Ethics&quot; urges the reader to live a life in accordance with the laws of reason, whose consummation is blessedness through the knowledge of God. His naturalist postulate of God as synonomous with the whole of the natural world was perhaps the most inspired and original reformulation of the concept of God. One can even go so far as to say that his theism, as it were, was the most realistic, as it rejected all forms of anthropomorphism, all figurative and personal epithets in reference to God, such as the conception of God held by traditional theology, as the creator of the universe &quot;ex nihilo&quot;. As such, the &quot;Ethics&quot; is patently anti-creationist. Not surprisingly, his position led him into being denounced (with good reason) as a freethinker, a heretic and atheist. His argument can briefly be summarised as follows. He takes as his most basic premise that in order to know a thing, one must first of all acquire a complete knowledge of the cause of the thing. Substance, he defined as that whose conception does not depend on the conception of another thing from which it must be formed. In other words, that which can be known through itself can not have an external cause. Thus, Spinoza defined substance as the cause of itself, (causa sui) and that it is therefore explained through itself and not by reference to another cause. It should be noted that this may seem self-contradictory (as in how can something uncaused be the source of its own causation prior to the act of causation itself?) though Spinoza clearly means this in a logical, and not causal, sense. Substance does not depend on another for its existence nor for its attributes and modifications. Consequently, Spinoza implied that the essence of substance implies existence, and substance must be conceived as existing. In consequence, he reached the proposition that substance must be infinite. For to be finite means to be limited, and limited by some other substance of the same nature, that is having the same attribute. By attribute, he defines the intellectual perception of the essence of a substance. Therefore, there could not be two substances, since both having the same essence would be indistinguishable from each other. Therefore, if there can not be two or more substances possessing the same attribute substance must be infinite. It was this substance, held to be infinite, which Spinoza identified with God, whom he understood as an absolutely infinite being or substance consisting of infinite attributes, each of which expresses external and infinite essence. Two of these attributes are known to us, that is thought and extension. Finite minds are modes of God under the attribute of thought, and finite bodies are modes of God under the attribute of extension. Thus, nature is not ontologically distinct from God. Both, are in fact, the same. Admittedly, Spinoza has had as many admirers as critics, such as Schopenhauer, who dismissed his philosophy as a merely cunning play on words in its identification of God and nature, a device for enriching the language through a mere redescription of nature. Others have objected to the rigour and exactitude of his logical method, which was an offshoot of, though a powerful rebuttal of, his mentor, Descartes. Nevertheless, it cannot be denied that the elegant simplicity and personal charm of his style is what makes him truly one of the most &quot;lovable of the great philosophers,&quot; to quote Bertrand Russell. His philosophy, it has also been said, still provides an alternative to atomistic science, and was notable for the direct influence it had on Romanticism, particularly on the most towering figure of Romantic science itself, Goethe, the last &quot;Universal Man&quot;.	2000-12-30
US	50719867	R1DWXUYLJE5702	0394701267	7630156	The Divine Comedy: The Carlyle Okey Wicksteed Unabridged Translation	Books	4	3	6	N	N	A Christian odyssey	&quot;The Divine Comedy&quot; is one of the most monumental masterpieces in European literature and a pioneering work of its kind. One can detect in it a break from medieval trends and the manifestation of the \\"modern\\" Renaissance spirit, in its new classicism (as in the appearance of Virgil as a guide) and its sublimity and grandeur. Though often plodding and diffuse, it is a sprawling epic, unconventional and bold, characterised by arcane erudition, allusion and symbolic richness. However, it contains many elements that one would associate with comedy, such as wit, invective and lampoon. It is also written in vulgar Tuscan and not Latin, the language of the ecclesiastics and pedants of the universities. As such, it is supposed to achieve by its language a suitably low and humble effect. The circular topography of hell, where the flatterers, the gluttons, the schismatics, the lechers endure a variety of torments, provides many instances of mirthful satire. The details are direful and sometimes scatalogical: \\" Even the cask with the bottom knocked out/Does not gape in the way that I saw one/Ripped open from chin to where he farts.\\"(Inferno, XXVIII, 22-4) and \\"The marsh, which sends out so much stinking breath/Surrounds on every side the weeping city\\" (Inferno, IX, 31-2) Being written against a backdrop of political rivalry, disunion and corruption, Dante, himself a major political actor at the time, took as many liberties as possible in censuring and ridiculing the vices of notable figures. (One can compare the results of &quot;The Divine Comedy&quot; being transferred to contemporary times wherein the likes of Tony Blair, Bill Gates and Bill Clinton are consigned to languish in hell.) Above all, it is a didactic work of a sinful and imperfect man's (Dante) spiritual odyssey and his redemption, exhorting his hearers to virtue and justice and condemning the vice and corruption to which medieval Europe had sunk. It can be called a comedy in the sense that it begins ominously, with Dante lost in the dark forest of sin (Inferno, I) his baneful encounters in hell and purgatory, and ends happily and gloriously with his salvation and union with Beatrice and God, the happy ending being a prerequisite for comedy.inously, with Dante lost in the dark forest of sin (Inferno, I) his baneful encounters in hell and purgatory, and ends happily and gloriously with his salvation and union with Beatrice and God, the happy ending being a prerequisite for comedy.	2000-12-26
US	50719867	RFE7BDVQJY372	0345350685	780069179	The Autobiography of Malcolm X: As Told to Alex Haley	Books	4	1	2	N	N	&quot;The angriest black man in America&quot;	When a white man is discovered to be a racist, he is denounced as a Nazi, a fomentor of hate, a supremacist. Conversely, when a black man is declared to be a &quot;racist&quot;, he is described as an inverted Nazi, a black Fascist, a chauvinist, a nativist, an Afrocentrist. Such was the fiery demagogue and militant ani-integrationist, Malcolm X. Rising from a life as a drug-addicted pimp and hustler in the streets, he became a minister in the Nation of Islam, a black nationalist organisation founded by Elijah Muhammad, a dangerous charlatan and intellectual seducer. The movement's body of doctrine comprised a smattering of Islamic religiosity, reactionary anti-white and anti-integrationist politics, a belief (partly millennarian, partly mythological) in the historical role and destiny of the black race, and a number of ethical precepts of Elijah Muhammad's own invention. It is in his break with the movement, and his mentor, however, (described in the latter part of the book) that Malcolm X demonstrates true nobility of character. Emerging as a leader of immense intelligence, profound integrity and surpassing eloquence, he grew to eventually reject both black racism as well as humanitarian hypocrisy, with its piecemeal concessions and reforms. His most correct insight was the recognition of the pervasiveness of racism in American society, and that racism is an ineradicable social fact that can never be denied as long as colour-differences remain. Another valuable insight was his belief that integration may be, in reality, quite detrimental and even self-deceptive, as it would fail to eliminate differences and would thus entail tensions and double-standards. Nevertheless, his success lay in his ability to deploy increasingly practical methods of political resistance, whose matrix was the arena of international politics, thus enabling him to whip up the whirlwind of popularity that he did. His biography is a lesson in how a man may be made by a movement, but who wouldeventually outgrow it, preventing it from engulfing him, and thus realising his true individual potentials.	2000-12-17
US	50719867	R2UVOSJ6M672TA	0404105254	452151986	Egoists, a Book of Supermen: Stendhal, Baudelaire, Flaubert, Anatole France, Huysmans, Barres, Nietzsche, Blake, Ibsen, Stirner, and Ernest Hello	Books	3	5	6	N	N	The upholders of the Cult of the Ego	James Gibbons Huneker's &quot;Egoists&quot; is a diverting compilation of essays, exploring the personalities and lives of some of the greatest artists, poets, litteratures, philosophers and mystics who have advocated the creed of individualism, in opposition to the sentiments of equality, brotherly love and socialism. The essays combine entertainingly critical and analytical insights with a melodic prose style characterised by a sweep and grandeur of rhetoric, and many a flowery turn of phrase. A little dated, perhaps, but fun.	2000-12-10
US	50719867	RZ4QUV0F1U238	0486406571	822536597	An Enemy of the People (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	3	7	8	N	N	&quot;L'individualisme intransigeant&quot;	The action centres around a feud between two brothers -- Dr. Stockmann and his brother, the mayor of a small town in the northern part of Norway. The issue is the contamination of the local baths by bacilli supposed to cause typhoid fever. The Mayor -- (who is an impossible dolt, whose like can hardly be conceived to be a mayor in any European town) -- argues for piecemeal improvements in the bathing facility. Stockmann, whose name is roughly translated into &quot;The Chastiser&quot;, urges the drastic closure of the premisses. The disagreement escalates into a violent altercation, in which the angry townspeople, in support of their mayor, unite and denounce the self-willed Stockmann as &quot;an enemy of the people&quot;. Stockmann is presented by Ibsen as a fiery, stubborn, brutally honest egoist who would &quot;rather ruin his community than see it thrive on lies and fraud&quot; -- an embattled individual who sees himself as a champion of truth in opposition to the stupidity of the herd of cattle. The last act is a highly tense illustration of the follies and indignities to which anyone can be subject for daring to oppose the social norm. Ibsen has Stockmann eventually succeed in discovering that &quot;the strongest man is mightiest alone&quot;, though this is a naively Romantic notion, the consolation of the defeated in the light of the colossal ignorance of one's fellow beings. Overall, an interesting dramatisation of an individual's case against public opinion.	2000-11-28
US	50719867	R14LB9X0I50VHJ	0876856490	616808418	The Road to Los Angeles	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Tender and uplifting coming-of-age novel	John Fante's rebel anti-hero, Arturo Bandini, is a would-be Nietzschean overman, a self-proclaimed genius and a writer with  lofty pretensions and vaunted aspirations. Scornful of the rest of mankind and confident of his own superiority, he believes himself to be a strong man above the herd of slaves and weaklings... This is, at least, what he believes himself to be, as he whiles his days away supporting his aged mother, getting into bitter conflicts with his disapproving sister, moving from one menial job to another, enjoying sexual fantasies of girlie pictures of impossible women, and torturing crabs and fishes to death. The novel contains many hilarious moments, from the lilting, pedantic speech of the protagonist (who seems to be a foolish and impetuous adolescent who's read too many books) down to the acrimonious exchanges between the embattled characters. The language, though spare and direct, is very elegant and manages to accomplish some strangely lyrical effects. The best moment in the book is Bandini's &quot;coming-of-age&quot;, as it were, the scene in which he turns his back on his dominating mother and sister (an echo perhaps, of his own intellectual hero's, Nietzsche's, turbulent relationship with his mother and sister) packs his suitcase and heads for the train station. It is then that Bandidni's spiritual growth reaches its summation. The ending is an uplifting and tender conclusion to a life submerged by poverty and frustration, though soon to reach the dawn of self-realisation. And what of Fante's parodic &quot;takes&quot; on &quot;Thus Spake Zarathustra&quot;? - Brilliant!	2000-11-20
US	50719867	R26CE2UNSH51QI	0393009033	547097007	Jacques the Fatalist and His Master	Books	4	20	23	N	N	An Enlightened vision	An entertaining encounter with one of the most fascinating men in the history of letters, Denis Diderot, the &quot;philosophe&quot; and encyclopedist. More of a committed intellectual rather than a conceptual philosopher, he was one of the leading personalities of the movement which was the Enlightenment, with its stress on reason, order and individual liberty. Although strongly imbued with the Enlightenment spirit of naturalistic explanation of phenomena and free enquiry, one notices, in &quot;Jacques the Fatalist&quot; that he was veering from the strict faith in reason (which distinguished his other colleasgues), in favour of a semi-epicurean ethic as he calls reason another of the &quot;whims&quot; of the human race. The novel raises many questions regarding the nature of free will and necessity: Jacques lives in a universe governed by predetermined laws (in which all outcomes are written &quot;up on high&quot;) but he acts as though he were free. Some of the antics and stories that transpire with Jacques and the Master provide instances of hilarious, and frequently bawdy, humour. A man who was ahead of his time, Diderot's fiction anticipates, in several ways, the &quot;Nouveau Roman&quot; of the 1950s and the &quot;postmodern&quot; novels of the 1990s in its highly experimental approach to narrative techniques. Sharp-eyed exegetes will also detect pasages that reveal him to be a proto-ecologist, a forerunner of the theories behind modern linguistics and a man whose insights uncannily presaged some of the formulations of the science of sociolgy (e.g. that higher standards of living would lead to a decrease in population.)	2000-11-20
US	50719867	R8SZVBCQ6AVM8	0192834770	283328506	The Secret Agent: A Simple Tale (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Inventive espionage thriller from the 1900s	The major event of the plot is an anarchist conspiracy to blow up the Greenwich Observatory. An &quot;agent provocateur&quot;, Verloc, is the man caught in the middle, a pawn in a game played by a high-ranking Russian diplomat, a leading police inspector and, on the other side, the sometimes clumsy and ineffectual anarchists. One example of the characterisation immediately sticks in the mind of the reader, long after completing the novel. It is the character of the mysterious Professor, a misanthrope and angel of destruction, who supplies Verloc with the explosives needed to carry out the plot and who embodies nihilism at its most extreme. Joseph Conrad is known for his dense and sometimes contorted prose, and the style of &quot;The Secret Agent&quot; is no exception. Though no great storyteller, he nevertheless demonstrates that he is a psychologist of the first order, in his searching analyses of character and motive. The novel is partly a domestic tragedy, a highly innovative and experimental early Modernist work, a darkly humorous tale with lashings of &quot;schadenfreude&quot; and an esponage thriller that anticipates, in many ways, the best and most recent examples of the genre.	2000-11-15
US	50719867	R10EXQ6AJ7FM21	0967812313	259762879	Might is Right - The Survival of the Fittest	Books	3	63	84	N	N	Possibly the most incendiary book ever written	&quot;Might is Right - the Survival of the Fittest&quot;, by Ragnar Redbeard, is a case for Social Darwinism. It is not a philosophical treatise in the strict sense, but more of a &quot;manifesto&quot; for racism, sexism, the worship of strength and the virtues of war, such as unbridled rapine, extreme unscrupulousness, joy in risk and contempt of danger. The author makes it clear that he is a foe to weakness, servility, Christianity and &quot;turning the other cheek.&quot; Impassioned, and at times, quite inspiring, it is characterised by its enamelled nineteenth century prose, its rhetorical splendours and thunderous declamations. Redbeard's message -- that &quot;you can go further with a handful of might than a bagful of right&quot; -- is repeated with very little variation throughout his treatise, to the effect of monotony. Most of his precepts are fairly commonsensical, or else mined from already extant literature. When he raves, however, Redbeard is truly original. His utterances, in a large measure, contain no sense at all, not even nonsense. At times, the style comes close to self-mockery and the arguments are riddled with contradictions. He makes it very plain that he is opposed to woman's emancipation: - &quot;Woe unto the Race if ever these lovable creatures should break loose from mastership, and become the rulers or equals of Man.&quot; It is this section in particular, that shows Redbeard at his silliest and most self-contradictory. At one point, he declares: &quot;It has been said of Mahomet that he said that 'Woman hath no soul'.&quot; Redbeard concurs enthusiastically with this view, only to add, about two lines later: - &quot;It is a proven fact that woman has no soul (and neither has man, for that matter) but in woman's case, one has greater grounds for doubting the existence of her soul even less.&quot; What kind of brain-shattered nonsense is this? Most of the work is childish, and filled with arguments that range far beyond the area of rationalexamination or refutation. For a more coherent and more logical presentation of similar views, I would recommend Max Stirner's &quot;The Ego and Its Own&quot; -- a testament of philosophical anarchism.	2000-11-15
US	50719867	R1DTXT08ZYWCTG	0679734503	755691955	Crime and Punishment: Pevear & Volokhonsky Translation (Vintage Classics)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	An immortal crime novel	&quot;Crime and Punishment&quot; is arguably the most exciting and the most philosophically complex crime novel ever written. It is also a meditation on retribution and guilt. Raskolnikov, a law student submerged by poverty and despair, dreams of becoming an overman, a Napoleon, and this provides the rationale for the murder of the old woman. He asks himself why must one, miserly old woman live on while thousands of gifted people, who are deprived of the resources that she enjoys, must toil ceaselessly without reward? Thus, Raskolnikov commits a murder on principle. It is interesting how Dostoevsky prefigured Nietzsche, as in the essay written by Raskolnikov and later discussed in the police station with Porfiry. In this discussion, Raskolnikov divides humanity into two classes, the &quot;ordinary&quot; and the &quot;extraordinary&quot;. The former lead conventional utilitarian lives, reproduce their own kind and cravenly obey laws and regulations. The latter, on the other hand, are the lords of the future, the shatterers of conventions and the creators of their own laws. The parallel is clear between this formulation and Nietzsche's bifurcation of morality into a &quot;master-morality&quot; and a &quot;slave-morality&quot;. The novel was greatly admired by Freud, who saw in it an element that anticipated his own formulation of &quot;Thanatos&quot;, or the &quot;death-drive&quot;, as in the part where Raskolnikov returns to the scene of the crime and starts to enquire about the blood.	2000-11-12
US	50719867	R3NDU1VO369S0R	0192832921	585430768	The Birth of Tragedy (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	3	8	15	N	N	The origin of tragedy	Nietzsche's attempt to trace the roots of the greatest works of art: how the Dioynisean impulse, with its corollaries of intoxication, excess, self-destruction and bacchanalian joy, is combined with the Appolline, which is characterised by harmony, restraint, form and is a sort of &quot;dream&quot; of beauty. Nietzsche explains that great art is created through Apollo's harnessing of Dionysos, or, in other words, through reason subordinating the animal in man. The book is a splendid display of erudition and helps us to understand the extent of Nietzsche's admiration of the Greeks. One of his key formulations is how tragedy enabled the Greeks to nevertheless see life, in spite of the suffering entailed in it, as indestructibly powerful and joyous. Art for them was a veil, a means of escaping the melancholy and Hamlet-like loathing of world, which accompanies all knowledge. In his attempt to define tragedy, one can see that Nietzsche was still indebted, in his conceptual approach, to the metaphysics of his master, Schopenhauer, even though the book was intended as a break from Schopenhauer. The decadence of Greek tragedy, Nietzsche argues, occured with the advent of Euripides and Socratic rationalism. Instead of the merging of Apollo and Dionysos, tragedy became characterised by superficiality, optimism and rationalistic, paradoxical thought. It began to encourage a narrow, utilitarian view of life. It is only music, in Nietzsche's opinion, that has the potential of being purely Dionysean, and, in this, he makes an excursus onto his mentor and friend at the time, Richard Wagner. He champions Wagner (to whom his book is dedicated) as a wonderfully Dionysean artist, whose music would succeed in ennobling the German people by making them great through suffering. Not surprisingly, and as soon as Nietzsche managed to come to his own, he broke also with Wagner, whose nationalism and anti-Semitism he could no longer tolerate. &quot;The Birth of Tragedy&quot; is Nietzsche's first book; it is inspired, but flawed and the arguments tend to be occasionally quite reckless. Some of his formulations are quite farfetched, as well and the work, on the whole, is a fairly horrible example of purple prose.	2000-11-06
US	50719867	R2Z2IGILTF05TZ	0812567110	317139448	The Picture of Dorian Gray (Tor Classics)	Books	3	9	12	N	N	A sub-Faustian tale of self-love and self-obssession	Though it's rather slow to get going in the initial chapters, Oscar Wilde's &quot;Picture of Dorian Gray&quot; builds up into a splendidly effective piece, written in highly polished prose. Dorian Gray, who is suggestively described as &quot;charming&quot; and &quot;beautiful&quot; ... is painted by his friend and admirer, Basil Hallward. Dorian, a self-centered social luminary whose character is reminiscent of Narcissus, makes a bizarre sub-Faustian wish which tragically comes true: that his beautiful portrait may age, while he retains his youthful looks. The conclusion is disastrous, the culmination of a narrative containing elements of murder, suicide, blackmail, a confrontation in a grimy alley and an episode in an opium den. The characters are very well sketched out, particularly the triad of Dorian, Basil and the intellectual cynic, Lord Henry, Dorian's mentor and the mouthpiece of some of Wilde's most cutting amoral opinions. The style is, typically, marvellous, characterised by brilliant exchanges and aphoristic gaiety. Wilde lacerates English bourgeois culture, the conceptions of sin and virtue and the attitudes towards art of his time with tremendous aplomb. Some of his quips are patently snide, sometimes mysogynistic, as in: &quot;Woman represents the triumph of matter over mind, while man represents the triumph of mind over morals.&quot; Oh, isn't that just despicable?! I love it!	2000-11-02
US	50719867	RQL4ISI8QK9VM	0553265954	881120122	Darkness at Noon	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Vivid and intriguing psychological account	Arthur Koestler's prose is nothing short of masterful; the reviewer may go on at length, praising it in the hackneyed, cut-and-dried adjectives of critspeak, such as &quot;powerful&quot;, &quot;mesmerising&quot;, &quot;engrossing&quot;. Koestler manages to evoke the chill frostiness of Rubashov's cell, every patch of peeling wall-paint, every twitch of anxiety, every flicker of panic. This is strikingly vivid and absorbing writing, with the characters' psychologies admirably sketched out. The narrative is centred around the experiences of Rubashov, a leading party official, now being detained and interrogated for holding views &quot;oppositional&quot; to official party policy. The novel could be considered tragic in detailing the fall from grace of a man who exercised his power over those below him, and who is then overpowered in turn. Though no direct references are made, Koestler subtly and tellingly alludes to the fact that the setting is Stalin's Russia during the thirties -- (the period of the purgings of the party), -- the mysterious party chief &quot;No. 1&quot; unmistakably cast as Stalin. Allusions are also made to &quot;The Old Man&quot; and the former leader with &quot;slit Tartar eyes&quot; -- clearly Lenin under the thinnest of disguises.	2000-10-29
US	50719867	R2WK1TJFQ996Z0	0805012478	857469136	Steppenwolf: A Novel	Books	3	9	15	N	N	A Nietzschean voyage into middle-aged alienation and loss	Herman Hesse, in his seemingly autobiographical &quot;Steppenwolf&quot;, is a man drunk on Nietzsche and Schopenhauerian pessimism, with an added dose of Eastern mysticism. The novel, written in 1927, contains savage indictments of conventional bourgeois morality and searching philosophic forays into the role of art, music and the independent, self-willed individual. Its philosophy of composition will seem unacceptable by contemporary standards, as the many theoretic divagations end up by placing too great a burden on the narrative. In the final section -- the &quot;Magic Theatre&quot; part -- consisting in hallucination, banditry, and bold and outright violence, the novel simply goes off the rails and the conclusion is far from being a satisfying one. But the charactarisation is compelling, especially in the portrayal of the protagonist, Harry Haller. the eponymous &quot;Steppenwolf&quot;: isolated, suicidal, pessimistic, lonely, misanthropic, intensely intellectual -- torn by his human side as well as his animal subconscious, -- the perfect specimen of the Nietzschean overman who renounces the world. The fact that Hesse makes his hero encounter exotic and beautiful women and succeed in seducing them, betrays something of self-indulgence in the author. What is most admirable, though, is the lucidity and spareness of his idiom, the way in which he succinctly manages to articulate acute conceptual problems. This tale is an authentic testimony of middle-aged crisis and dispossession.	2000-10-25
US	50719867	RBZI2NJH78FDE	0856357286	29008117	Algernon Charles Swinburne: Selected Poems (Fyfield Books)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The lyric champion of evil	Denounced by a Victiorian critic as a &quot;libidinous laureate of a pack of satyrs&quot;, Swinburne's oeuvre includes forays into the realms of political, moral and spiritual revolt, themes which ran counter to the bourgeois solidity of the Victorian era. Three of his best works which illustrate this are &quot;Anactoria&quot;, which includes the memorable line: &quot;Exceeding pleasure in superflux of pain&quot;, an illustration of the sadistic dimension of the lesbian protagonists' relationship, &quot;Dolores&quot; and &quot;Hertha&quot; which places Swinburne in the camp of mystical transcendentalism. This collection is a must for those who want to be acquainted with one of the greatest poets in the English language, a virtuoso of metrical composition, as well as a lyric champion of vice.	2000-10-19
US	50719867	R1VNGCWVPK88VL	0872861562	241806796	The Most Beautiful Woman in Town & Other Stories	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An American anti-legend	&quot;The Most Beautiful Woman in Town and Other Stories&quot; is easily a better collection than &quot;Tales of Ordinary Madness&quot;. The writing is careless and sloppy, a sort of third-rate Hemingway or Carson McCullers. Cliches and poorly constructed sentences abound. But one must admit that it has feeling. Occasionally a shimmer of brilliance can be made out among the dross. Bukowski's own experiences supply much of the material, a reminder, perhaps, of the guiding power of lived experience. Some stories are quite inspired, e.g. &quot;Swastika&quot;, &quot;The F**k Machine&quot; and &quot;The Best W**rehouse in Texas&quot;; I've never laughed more than at one story, &quot;All the Great Writers&quot;, a lively account of the foibles and vanities of men of letters. But still, I'd recommend Henry Miller's &quot;Tropic of Cancer&quot;, for those who'd prefer to see similar material better handled.	2000-10-10
US	50719867	R1Z1FG21F1GEI7	0002178559	685897041	Demanding the Impossible: A History of Anarchism	Books	5	51	53	N	N	Comprehensive and intelligently written survey	Although the pioneering work of anarchist history was Woodcock's relatively tiny volume &quot;Anarchism&quot;, Marshall demonstrates with this revision that the torch has passed from Woodcock to him. What is most satisfying in this edition is that, although Marshall's sympathies are unambiguously anarchist, he manages to offer a very balanced, clear, objective, helpful historical account, combined with admirably critical insights. Written in 1991, it has an added value for being reasonably recent, as previous scholarship on the subject is by now mostly dated. &quot;Demanding the Impossible&quot; is superior also because of its sheer bulk: 700+ information-packed pages. Not merely confining himself to looking at anarchism as an ideology, Marshall spans a period starting from Buddhism and Taoism, to ancient Greece and Christianity, up to the present and offers a rich and powerful exposition of these cultural phenomena and the ways in which they prefigure anarchistic ideas, to form a many-streamed &quot;river of anarchy&quot;. In addition, there are explorations of modern anarchism in action in Russia and the Ukraine, Asia, Northern Europe and the United States, among many other countries across the globe. Other chapters include surveys and critiques of the major classical anarchist thinkers -- Mikhail Bakunin, Count Leo Tolstoy, Max Stirner, William Godwin, Pierre-Joseph Proudhon, Prince Kropotkin -- as well as examinations of libertarian movements and thinkers allied to anarchism, such as Wilhelm von Humboldt, Nietzsche, J.S. Mill, Herbert Spencer, the existentialists Sartre and Camus, The New Left, the hippy Counterculture, Right Libertarianism, the work of Michel Foucault, and so forth. Extremely accessible account overall.	2000-10-08
US	50719867	R1C9Y5WNL090PK	0553213113	551860371	Moby-Dick (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Essential dark literature	Herman Melville's &quot;Moby Dick&quot; is a rich, stirring tale of courage, loyalty, revenge and adventure, told with a great deal of irreverence and dark humour. Captain Ahab is one of the most endearing of literary creations, the peg-legged skipper hell-bent on punishing the whale that cost him a limb. The mighty prose shows Melville to have been deeply influenced by Shakespeare, and in some passages, his love of Shakespeare elevates him to heights of emulation. Never has blank verse resounded more potently in a prose-work!	2000-09-27
US	50719867	R7RYIZ70GATKI	0486200108	256812943	Language, Truth and Logic (Dover Books on Western Philosophy)	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Classic exposition of logical positivism	A.J. Ayer's &quot;Language, Truth and Logic&quot; (1936) merits the label &quot;classic&quot; on the basis of its lucidity and unaffected directness of expression. Ayer, one of the first philosophers of mind to convey the views of the logical positivists (Wittgenstein, Neurath, etc.) into English, is nonetheless a considerable thinker on his own right, adapting the criteria of the positivists to suit his own enquiries and concerns. His work is a continuation of the thought of the critical empiricist Kant, as well as the phenomenological idealist methodology inaugurated by his own countrymen, Bacon and Hume. In clear and engaging prose, he lays down the basis of his logical empiricist method as the distinction between statements of logical necessity (i.e., &quot;analytic&quot; statements), in which the predicate is embedded in the subject &quot;a priori&quot;, and &quot;synthetic&quot; statements, whose verifiability is derived from sense-experience. Ayer adopts these principles and develops them throughout his treatise in attempt to solve the most pressing questions of philosophy. However, Ayer's method is quite stringent and reductive and leads him to repudiate an important realm of philosophical enquiry, namely, metaphysics. He dismisses all statements pertaining to metaphysics or theology as being outside his area of enquiry, since they do not correspond to verifiable sense-contents, nor to statements of logical necessity. This has led Ayer to become the object of much criticism, one critic dubbing him as &quot;the man who hated knowledge&quot;. It's a fact that philosophy consists of more than just the analysis of statements. Various Continental philosophical trends and disciplines, such as existentialism and poststructuralism, tend to be more fulfilling in their address of the personal as well as spiritual dimensions of the human being, as opposed to the &quot;traditional&quot; Anglo-American schools of positivism and pragmatism. By the same token, logical empiricists such as Ayer may have been too reckless in consigning metaphysics to the dust-heap of philosophy, as speculation on metaphysical topics remains an ongoing imperative for many thinkers. Heidegger was correct in his answer to the logical positivists who sought to banish metaphysics: rejecting metaphysics because it does not meet the criteria of logical verifiability was &quot;as absurd as rejecting a carpenter's bench for not being able to fly...&quot;	2000-09-26
US	50719867	R2EXMZC7HPSI5K	0198245890	97243233	The Critique of Judgement: (containing Kant's "Critique of Aesthetic Judgement" and "Critique of Teleological Judgement")	Books	3	11	29	N	N	Reductive and, in parts, outmoded aesthetics	The &quot;Critique of Judgement&quot; is Kant's third and crowning work of his critical-transcendental philosophy. In it, he expounds his theory of aesthetics, broken down into two divisions, the &quot;Analytic of the Beautiful&quot; and the &quot;Analytic of the Sublime&quot;. The &quot;Analytic of the Beautiful&quot; attempts to explain what we perceive to be beautiful, which is, Kant contends, a four-step process. First, the material for the perception of the beautiful is supplied by the faculty of sensibility, as the basis of the judgement of the beautiful. Secondly, the faculty of the understanding is linked, by means of a unique causal mechanism, to the faculty of the imagination, thus enabling a judgement to be made. In the third part of the process, the judgement is presumed to be disinterested, i.e. &quot;purposive without purpose&quot; -- the subject making the judgement, Kant argues, has no stake in the object of contemplation (being disinterested). Which is to say, he/she regards it as merely beautiful for its own sake. Fourth, this judgement of the beautiful, though singular in logical form, -- i.e., &quot;the vase is beautiful&quot;, has the status of universal validity, since the judgement is made in the &quot;a priori&quot; supposition that all rational beings should regard it as valid. Kant's valuable formulation is that there is a distinction between an object which is sensually attractive (the basis of a mere &quot;sensory judgement&quot;) and the true object of aesthetic contemplation -- the beautiful itself. However this reductive analytic aesthetics fails to acknowledge that the line between the sensory and the aesthetic may be very unstable. It also cannot preclude the dimension (stressed by later aestheticians such as Nietzsche and Freud and many contemporary philosophers of art) of the drives, out of which the whole realm of the aesthetics exclusively derives, though via the sublimation of affects and percepts, thus ruling out by fiat that any aesthetic contemplation could be &quot;disinterested&quot;. The &quot;Analytic of the Sublime&quot; is perhaps the most enduring contribution of Kantian aesthetics, which has been seized on by one of the leading philosophers of postmodernity, namely, Lyotard. Kant defines the sublime as possibly being contained in an object &quot;even devoid of form, so far as it immediately involves, or its presence provokes, a representation of 'limitlessness', yet a superadded thought of its totality.&quot; -- In other words, the sublime lies beyond the confines of sense-experience, leading us to form concepts of pure reason. Like the rest of Kant's critical philosophic works, &quot;The Critique of Judgement&quot; is written in the eighteenth century style of the German academy, and is devoid of anything even remotely resembling a single literary flourish. It is best approached as reference text. A livelier work of critical-transcendental aesthetics would be Schiller's &quot;Letters On the Aesthetic Education of Man&quot;. Schiller casts his own artistic, political and ethical interests within the paradigm of his master Kant, but being a man of letters, he at leasts presents the theory to the reader in a more amenable form.	2000-09-23
US	50719867	R3J7ANW5GB7PYB	014044176X	198612908	A Hero of Our Time (Classics)	Books	3	2	7	N	N	A classic of Russian early realism	&quot;A Hero of Our Time&quot; is widely held to be a crucial text in the development of the Russian nineteenth century novel, up to Turgenev and Dostoeyvsky. The hero of the title, an enigmatical figure called Pechorin, seems calculated by Lermontov to reflect the characteristics of the typical young aristocrats of his generation. He is cynical, but very heroic, possessed of reserves of willpower, but, at the same time, vulnerable -- a patently Byronic rebel with his egoism, his aloofness, his restlessness. However, it is the author Lermontov presented under the thinnest of disguises (Lermontov himself died young, in a duel in true Romantic fashion). The novel is divided into several stories, with a tenuous thread of connection running through them, dealing with the themes of friendship, love and predestination. The best sections are the first and final story, &quot;Vulich&quot;, which is a clever tale about fate. The prose, however, is rather rocky (or is it the translation?)	2000-09-23
US	50719867	RK4R0S7VULPL5	0684803348	156249009	The Short Stories: The First Forty-nine Stories with a Brief Preface by the Author	Books	3	10	16	N	N	The leading American man of letters for the early 20th C.	This selection of short pieces is an excellent and substantial part of Hemingway's ouevre. Some of them are now considered as classics of the short story form, such as &quot;The Short and Happy Life of Francis Macowber&quot; and &quot;The Killers&quot; -- a story which took, it is said, three years for Hemingway to complete. A clever stylist of American Modernism, his work is characterised by the staccato, laconic, minimalist sentences and expressions, which create a superbly &quot;real&quot;, as opposed to merely literary, effect. Later examples of his work show how he further experimented with this style, in an effort to endow language with greater powers of precision and clarity. Unfortunately, the result is sometimes stilted and clumsy, particularly in the dialogue. This collection is recommended for its inclusion of some of his finest short works. Others, such as &quot;This is Friday&quot; and &quot;Mr. and Mrs. Elliot&quot; are not exactly literary gems, but the reader will be left to judge for him/herself.	2000-09-22
US	50719867	R327IA7OP80U1A	0679752552	916213869	Discipline & Punish: The Birth of the Prison	Books	4	19	26	N	N	The coercive foundations of modern disciplinary society	&quot;Discipline and Punish&quot;, a key text in the Foucaldian canon, is an ambitious, though at times imprecise, attempt to trace the ideological bases of the modern punitive apparati consolidated by the Enlightenment. His most important formulation is the recognition that curative or educative punishment is not dissimilar to judicial punishment, which treats crime as a sin against the social order. Curative discipline, Foucault contends, takes crime as a sin against the wrongdoer and is thus the obverse of penal coercion. He compares prisons, factories, schools, barracks and hospitals in their fundamental coercive underpinnings, a feature which is best illustrated by the Panopticon, Bentham's version of the model prison, which was designed to enforce total surveillance of the punished. As opposed to the view that the Enlightenment saw to the triumph of science, reason, progress and order, Foucault considers it as contributing to increased suffering and repression through social control. The corollary of Foucault's argument is that the West has achieved no progress in the past two centuries, a conclusion which is plain false. Reason, as understood by Foucault, is a technology of power with science as its tool; its area of domination human bodies and their actions, as demonstrated by disciplinary surveillance. The will to power, as knowledge, is expressed to consolidate the position of the bourgeois society, and the concentration of coercion, the prevalent quality inherent in modern culture. This is by far an eloquent and absorbing treatise.	2000-09-21
US	50719867	R3BW37ELRN4DHO	0156001314	444581246	The Name of the Rose: including the Author's Postscript	Books	4	0	3	N	N	A contemporary classic	Deftly translated, superbly crafted and elegantly written, this is a  splendid literary blockbuster. Eco marvellously displays his wealth of  erudition in this towering contemporay classic.	2000-09-15
US	50719867	R2HBIKEYTQJMSC	0805210407	377046405	The Trial	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A nightmarish, emaciated vision of modern society	This is unquestionably a powerful, enigmatical modern, and even postmodern  text, with its sordid portrayal of an urbanized universe. It is also a  classic essay on the folly of existence. - &quot;Like a dog!&quot; - For  what crime is K. on trial? How can he redeem himself? And who is the face  at the window, glimpsed towards the end...? - There are no facts, no  causes, no continuity; life is a glaring, unfathomable absurdity. All are  constrained by the necessity of obeying the inscrutable &quot;law&quot;  that controls all and has everything in its thrall. Kafka's writing is  superb, with acute powers of suggestion. His preoccupations are with the  law, guilt, redemption and the absolute. His work, which has been very much  overrated, in my view, is a brilliant but unpardonably clever description  of the pressures and anxieties of modern industrial life.	2000-09-15
US	50719867	R3ABTTY242YWGD	0802151078	876021300	The Monk	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Sensational Gothic suspenser	This is dated stuff, with its flowery descriptions, its melodramatic  dialogue and situations and its hackneyed plot, with its reliance on  coincidences and mistaken identities. Still, I haven't read a book recently  that has breathed a more potent air of menace and evil. The suggestion of  atmosphere is strong and the latent eroticism and perversion contribute a  great deal to the tension.	2000-09-15
US	50719867	RVI7P6BQWW6RV	014015096X	186412137	The Portable Karl Marx (Portable Library)	Books	5	32	33	N	N	A rich, accessible introduction to Karl Marx	&quot;The Portable Karl Marx&quot; is a splendid anthology of Marx'  writings, political, philosophical and economic. The book also features a  selection of Marx' personal letters, his university records and various  private documents, including his birth certificate, all which help to  illuminate the character of one of the prophets of the modern age. The  compendium of extracts traces Marx' intellectual trajectory, from his early  discipleship to the critical idealism of Hegel, onto his maturity, by which  time he had established himself as a luminary of political thought. The  chief doctrines of his mature philosophy are expounded here, such as  historical materialism, surplus value and the class struggle, which would  be generated by the contradictions and tensions of capitalism itself,  leading to the growth of an educated proletariat which would free  themselves from their yoke and revolt to usher in the era of communism.  Karl Marx is, along with Freud and Nietzsche, one of the focal points of  the culture of the twentieth century. Contemporary debates on political  philosophy cannot do without having recourse to, or at least coming to  terms with, his shattering insights and path-making formulations.	2000-09-14
US	50719867	R2NM8NVPK0WFJR	0679724621	22000986	On the Genealogy of Morals and Ecce Homo	Books	5	9	18	N	N	A devastating critique of modernity	Undoubtedly Nietzsche's most penetrating and philosophical work, the  &quot;Genealogy of Morals&quot; is a shattering indictment of science,  Judaeo-Christian morality and modern Western values such as liberalism,  socialism and feminism. It identifies these phenomena with the reactive,  self-preserving &quot;ascetic ideal&quot; - the oppressive &quot;will to  truth&quot; - that aims to constrain and deny life. In opposition,  Nietzsche propounds art and culture as a counteragent and champions the  &quot;Diyonisan tragic artist&quot; who will affirm and celebrate life. -  Also a pioneering text for poststructuralist critical-historical analysis,  as represented by the likes of Deleuze and Foucault, and deconstruction,  the maverick textual methodology of Jacques Derrida.	2000-09-09
US	50719867	RJSWWG4UQ49YO	081562705X	690639433	The Second Message of Islam (Contemporary Issues in the Middle East)	Books	3	15	21	N	N	A paradoxical book	Mahmoud Mohamed Taha is one of the most original and daring of modern  Islamic thinkers. This book of his, undeservedly ignored in the so-called  liberated West, is a proclamation of reform and tolerance, against the  oppression and despotisms that currently enmesh the Muslim world. He was a  man who refused to recant, regardless of the hostility of public opinion  during the dictatorial regime of Ja'ffar Nimerei, and chose instead to  suffer the martyrdom of the hangman's rope. Nowadays, his followers dare  not declare themselves, nor breathe a word of his teachings publicly, for  fear of being persecuted and stigmatised. Admittedly, his doctrine may seem  unrealistic today, in the world of multinational companies and mass  consumerism. Much of it is riddled by logical contradictions. For example,  it is nonsensical to talk of reforming Islam, a religion which is  doctrinally irreformable. But              even if one doesn't agree with  him, one is still moved to admire his courage...	2000-09-08
US	50719867	R3IPZ9HTLMEKZA	0140442278	708519048	Essays and Aphorisms (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	22	28	N	N	Eloquent, masterly essays	A recapitulation of Schopenhauer's key ideas, such as the vanity of  earthly existence and the suffering in the world, along with some  engrossing sections on suicide, religion and psychology. The notorious  essay on women, I must say, contains some hilarious views which some may  now find backward but - (and I dare say this!) - I found myself perfectly  in agreement with Schopenhauer with regards to the character of the weaker  sex. Otherwise the wit, the erudition, the breadth of scope, are all the  marks of a truly great mind and an undisputed master of prose style. I  wouldn't recommend this abridged version, though, since it grubbily  truncates the essays and the final effect is altogether diluted. However,  if one can't get hold of the unabridged one, this edition is an  entertaining enough read and deserves a glance.	2000-09-08
US	50719867	R3P4OVQFESQ018	0521456479	143490049	Stirner: The Ego and its Own (Cambridge Texts in the History of Political Thought)	Books	5	35	38	N	N	-- &quot;The Fourth Dimension of Ethics&quot; --	&quot;The Ego and His Own&quot;, the testament of the philosophic  incendiary Max Stirner, remains, one hundred and fifty years after its  appearance, the most subversive, the most antisocial, the most radical book  in the history of political thought. Writing in a highly idiosyncratic  idiom, Stirner launches an extreme and uncompromising attack on  Christianity, the state, society, the family, socialism and revolts against  the monarchy of abstract ideas, as exemplified by the entire rational  tradition of Western philosophy. His book represents the culmination of  Left Hegelianism. In the place of moral imperatives, he postulates the will  of the sovereign egoist, who lives untrammelled by convention or authority.  Rights, obligations, duties do not exist. The might of the ego is the sole  determining factor in conduct. He takes his doctrine to its logical  conclusion and, at times, to its illogical extreme by urging reasons for  crime against all institutions and in the egoist's bid for power in the war  of each against all, the arena of which is the embattled socius. He has  been interpreted as a harbinger of Fascism and, among other things, an  important proto-Nietzschean thinker. He bears many resemblances to his  successor Nietzsche, as in how he champions egoism, celebrates the  passions, and also in his call for a transvaluation of existing values and  the need to create one's life anew. But there is a crucial difference:  Stirner, a disciple of Hegelian idealism, is critical; Nietzsche,  assertive. Stirner's egoism is spontaneous and capricious while Nietzsche's  semi-altruistic egoism always has the highest social end in view. A must  for those who want to discover a forgotten classic of political thought.	2000-09-07
US	50719867	RS56UV7M2V5SI	014044095X	717798241	Maxims (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	12	16	N	N	The arch-cynical &quot;moraliste&quot;	La Rouchefoucauld flashes his deadly epigrammatic knife-blade and, with  ruthless precision, he sets about stripping the flesh off all that  reasonable and upstanding people respect -- virtue, moderation, compassion,  love and reason itself. With poise, elegance and control, he deploys the  literary form of the aphorism, though despite the balance, the brevity and  the stylistic grace, one cannot mistake his intention: the destruction of  moral prejudices and received opinions. Some of his axioms are timeless: --  &quot;There are some bad qualities which make great talents.&quot; --  &quot;If we judge love by the generality of its effects, it resembles  hatred rather than friendship.&quot; -- &quot;Interest speaks all sorts of  languages, and plays all sorts of parts, even that of  disinterestedness.&quot; With his icy, seemingly dispassionate precepts, he  deliberately glories in paradox and presents a mordant picture of human  nature. Stylistically as well as substantively, he was a forerunner of the  aristocratic anarchist Nietzsche.	2000-08-30
US	50719867	RGZ8HM3L1GLUG	0802131786	760683206	Tropic of Cancer	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Soulful and sincere	Hailed by the &quot;permissive&quot; generation of the sixties as a prophet of sexual liberation, Henry Miller produced a work that is lyrical,  impressively erudite, extremely funny and most of all, soulful and  passionately sincere. It ranks as one of the finest modernist works,  alongside the works of Eliot, Pound, Joyce, Lawrence; a worthy heir of  Whitman and Thoreau, Miller, with his anarchism, his defiance of oppression  and his regarding the passions as sacred, has a power to make language live  by itself in his glittering images and brilliant soliloquies. He dives into  the flux of his times and mines the wealth which is lived experince,  transfiguring it into art and purpose. A masterpiece.	2000-08-24
US	50719867	RXD7P5OMEGGM5	962634511X	705442339	Ulysses (Modern Fiction)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The definitive modernist text	A stylistically sprawling, richly symbolic, discursive fresco,  &quot;Ulyssess&quot; remains the one book that has pushed the form of the  novel to explorative extremes. Not to be perused at leisure, but to be  studied with diligent effort, it will be regarded as a death sentence by  the average reader, but for the genuine lover of literature it's a treat.  &quot;Ulyssess&quot; is an elephantine, pedantic, sometimes self-indulgent  novel. At first reading, one might feel intimidated by it, which is why  student guides and annotated editions are so essential. In reality, it's a  very touching and candid book and not as bullying as it seems at all, but  an encounter with the most familiar and daily incidents, embedded in the  intimacies of lived experience. For all his dense allusiveness and  linguistic acrobatics, Joyce's message is so simple that it almost seems a  commonplace: the human need to love and be loved. At the same time, though  it has been proclaimed as possibly the most individual and innovative novel  of the century, one will discover that it's neither individual (with its  polyphonic multiple registers) nor innovative (with its reliance on mining  pop culture, Celtic traditions, literary precedents -- which were already  extant). The really innovative novel of this type was &quot;Tristram  Shandy&quot;.	2000-08-24
US	50719867	RO7U7IVDDB9RS	0844628859	45470773	The World As Will and Representation (2-Volume Set)	Books	5	137	152	N	N	The vision of a giant mind.	Although the scientific premises of his philosophy are now considered outdated, Arthur Schopenhauer's contribution to modern philosophy continues to be an enduring and endearing one. Despite the fact that he wrote in the  framework of Kantian idealism -- (with its dual-world metaphysics of  &quot;phenomenon&quot; and &quot;thing-in-itself&quot;) -- his thought has  branched out into several directions, proving to be influential on some of  the literary and philosophical luminaries of the nineetenth as well as the  twentieth centuries. In his metaphysics, he was a voluntarist, propounding  the nonrational, universal will as the ultimate reality (the  &quot;thing-in-itself&quot;) and the driving force behind all the  manifestations of organic life as well as inorganic nature. The voluntarist  doctrine of the will to power of Nietzsche was evolved from Schopenhauer,  as well as the metaphysical vitalism of Bergson and, most patently, Freud's  theory of the unconscious. In his epistemology, he was a phenomenologist  and idealist, following the footsteps of Berkeley and the critical idealist  Kant. In his aesthetics, he was a Platonist, holding the ontologically  originary Form, or what he terms the &quot;Platonic Idea&quot; to be  anterior to the aesthetic representation. In his ethics, he argued that to  live means to desire and desire entails nothing but suffering. His  reasoning was that desire induces suffering when it is frustrated from  acquiring its object; upon overcoming its hindrances and realising its  object, desire results in boredom since it has a new object in view and the  cycle continues indefinitely. As such, desire leads inevitably to  suffering. Schopenhauer's answer is asceticism (&quot;the denial of the  will-to-live&quot;). The wise man does not commit suicide, but abstains  from this life of useless striving and hopes for an annihilating death. In  the meantime, he will look with compassion and pity upon his suffering  fellow creatures. This element of Schopenhauer's philosophy reflects his  unremittingly melancholy and pessimistic temperament, culminating,  according to his biographer, in intense paranoia and the habit of sleeping  at night with a loaded pistol tucked under his pillow. His ascetic morality  is unique in modern Western philosophy. Being an atheist, Schopenhauer was  arguably the first philosopher to effect a thorough break with the  Judaeo-Christian tradition and to introduce strong elements of Eastern  religion in his thought. (His voluntarism and asceticism have Hinduist and  Jain Buddhist roots in the doctrine of reincarnation  &quot;metempsychosis&quot; and the application of austerities upon oneself  to liberate the soul from the karmic matter which magnetises it and causes  it to be painfully reborn into the world of pain.) In terms of his style,  he was an undisputed master of German prose style, writing in a lucid,  witty and jargon-free Romantic &quot;essay-style&quot;. He has exerted an  influence on a number of key modern literary figures, such as Mann, Conrad  and Hardy. His stress on style anticipates contemporary philosophising and  its emphasis on literary form, as can be seen in the works of figures such  as Derrida, Baudrillard, Heidegger, Deleuze et al. In addition, the  unaffected purity of his philosophy is an indication of the great extent to  which it approximates his own difficult and powerful personality. Only  someone like Schopenhauer, whose character combined such a vehemence of  desire along with such a brooding sensitivity to suffering, could have  produced such a philosophy which argues for the most extreme restraining of  desire. Altogether, &quot;The World as Will and Idea&quot; is a fascinating  encounter with one of the most impressive thinkers of all time. Imagine it  as an intellectual dialogue,  an after-dinner debate in which you are  challenged and entertained with the insights of a truly giant mind. Even if  one does not share his assumptions, or agree with his conclusions, he still  provokes those who read him with admiration and respect for his insight and  genius.	2000-08-01
US	50719867	R2C5RE1YCSHU7U	0393085392	219306846	Burgess Tremor of Intent (Cloth)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Enjoyable spy yarn	In this spy thriller, published in 1966, Anthony Burgess combines his characteristically witty and clever linguistic mastery with a convoluted espionage plot. The book easily dwarfs, in both style and content, the best  examples of Ian Fleming's Bond franchise. The characters are deliciously  cynical and wonderfully self-seeking. Burgess's secret agent hero, Denis  Hillier, enjoys sexual adventures that make Bond's encounters appear as  exciting and as fulfilling as a fourteen-year-old boy's in-house episode  with a porno mag. I did feel, though, that it was a bit lacking in action  and thrills. Many parts are taken up by snotty, over-erudite and verbose  exchanges between characters. The language, though, is a sheer pleasure to  read, with its witty puns, arcane wordplay, polylingual allusions and  explorative scope. In addition, the book has a fascination with the ideas  of Original Sin and redemption, which preoccupied the Catholic nonbeliever  Burgess throughout his life.	2000-07-24
US	50719867	R129CXNZBW0TYB	1573660272	762650552	Distorture (Black Ice Books)	Books	1	13	18	N	N	Pretentious exercise in self-display	&quot;Distorture&quot; is a plodding and self-regarding debut from writer-studio musician Rob Hardin. &quot;Distorture&quot;is by far inferior to the stories of another writer/musician, M. Gira, titled &quot;The  Consumer&quot;, which explore virtually the same themes with greater  success. The stories in Hardin's collection, by contrast, propounded by its  promoters in such empty, gimmicky phrases as &quot;fiercely modern&quot;  and &quot;lyrically demented&quot;, are not only dreary and unattractive,  but artificial, with strained attempts at pseudo-erudition. Hardin strives  for originality with the steadfastness of a constipator trying to unburden  his agonised bowels, the result being discordant thought, fragmentary  narratives, unfathomably elaborate page layouts and illustrations, in  addition to forced, obviously &quot;concocted&quot; imagery, e.g. &quot;the  stained remains lay plainly disembrained&quot; and so forth. Here is a  quotation more illustrative of Hardin's &quot;word-magic&quot; and  &quot;profundity&quot;: &quot;When writing seems poised like a window  between reader &amp; speaker, its opacity is gloved in a veneer of  transparence.&quot; A prize for the first who is able to decipher this  delirious, almost self-parodying rattle of words.	2000-07-13
US	50719867	RDVMIOVGH7C95	0312184255	459579226	The History of Torture	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Compact survey	An extensive overview of torture, containing much photographic and illustrative detail. The sections range from torture in ancient Greece and Rome, the Far East, the Inquisition, the Spanish Inquisition, instruments  of torture (such as the infamous Spanish &quot;strappado&quot;) torture in  the twentieth century, the campaign against torture (spearheaded by the  likes of Voltaire and Edmund Burke) and psychological torture -- &quot;the  torture of the mind&quot; -- i.e., brainwashing and the like.	2000-07-12
US	50719867	RRRS02W9QPF34	0061318302	156643773	Cannibalism: Human aggression and cultural form (Harper torchbooks ; TB 1830)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Penetrating exploration of cannibalism	Lucidly written and packed with useful factual information, Eli Sagan's &quot;Cannibalism: Human Aggression and Cultural Form&quot; is an attempt to examine institutionalised aggression from a psychoanalytic perspective.  Drawing on Freud and anthropological research of &quot;organic&quot; or  primitive societies, Sagan identifies cannibalism as the most elementary  form of aggression, the result of aggressive drives which are repressed and  not given adequate expression. As a corollary, Sagan argues that these  self-same aggressive drives have been sublimated in modern civilised  society, albeit in the institutionalised forms of racism, capitalist  competition, imperialism and slavery. It is evident that the author's  political views are left-wing liberalist, recommending the release of eros  (the libidinal energy of love) in the hope of realising a more tolerant and  progressive society and seeking newer forms of sublimating aggressive  drives. But this does not cloud the issue. The book remains an objective,  direct and clear study throughout, written without obfuscation or needless  ornament.	2000-07-11
US	50719867	R1ZKCA8M5XPXDC	0195049969	299556165	The Body in Pain: The Making and Unmaking of the World	Books	5	79	81	N	N	Densely written but rewarding treatise	Elaine Scarry's &quot;The Body in Pain&quot;, an influential study on the relationship between pain, torture, warfare and creativity is a stunning achievement, from the standpoint of Marxism. I confess that I have not read  the sections on the structure of warfare, but I was extremely impressed  with the passages on torture. Scarry's central premise is that pain, a  radically subjective, hence inexpressible and incommunicable experience,  results, during the process of torture, in destroying, or deconstructing  the victim's voice (his or her power of articulation) and by extension, the  victim's world. It is the prisoner's pain, incommunicable because  unsharable, which is denied by the torturer as pain but translated as the  wholly illusory phenomenon of power, that of the torturer and the regime he  represents. These parts of the book are expounded with considerable insight  and sophistication, in dense and convoluted prose. The second part, dealing  with how pain is converted to creativity, explains how the radical  subjectivity and inexpressibility of the sufferer's pain is mitigated into  the objective (hence sharable and communicable) activity of work, which is  a self-imposed, milder and socially more profitable form of pain. This  treatise is absolutely vital reading for any one who aspires to seriously  dabble in literature, psychology or philosophy. A tour de force.	2000-07-11
US	50719867	R2792NJMJWO65Z	0449209164	197430054	The Ninja	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Popular martial arts blockbuster	Eric Van Lustbader's &quot;The Ninja&quot; has all the trappings of a cinematic thriller: a fast-moving plot, a villain skilled in the deadliest martial arts, suspenseful encounters, a narrative fuelled by passion and  revenge, lashings of sex and spellbinding action scenes. Although it is  regarded as a popular book, which is to say, &quot;a good read&quot; on  account of its standard storyline and characterisation, its sophisticated  language, with choice descriptions and refined diction, elevate to the  altogether higher plane of literature.	2000-07-06
US	50719867	R2SPHL806MGYTJ	0710301103	961152042	Classical Arabic Poetry	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Masterful translations!	Charles Grenville Tuetey's translations, first published in 1985, place him in the advanced guard of all who have translated Arabic poetry into English. The imagery, music, phrase and diction are a careful adaptation of  the resonant cadences of classical Arabic poetry (a style of versification  with no equivalent in the world) into the poetical structures of the  English language. Previous translations have produced either flatly literal  renderings or attempted to make facile compromises between the two  languages, producing translations that &quot;read well&quot; but fail to  capture the unique potency of the original Arabic. This Tuetey accomplishes  with grace, skill and linguistic mastery, transferring the classics of the  Arab world into an English idiom that is admirable for its aptness of  diction, rhetorical explorativeness and concision. A heroic effort of a man  who shall undoubtedly remain the undisputed master of Arabic verse  translation.	2000-06-13
US	50719867	R2TUY2IUV93SJM	0394719859	901867030	The Gay Science: With a Prelude in Rhymes and an Appendix of Songs	Books	5	4	8	N	N	The Gay Science	With its combination of penetrating psychological insights, self-depreciating irony and joyful dithyrambic utterances, the &quot;Gay Science&quot; marks another transition in the career of Nietzsche: no  longer the philosopher of the middle period -- (&quot;a positivist, though  no blind follower of Comte&quot;) -- he has become Nietzsche the visionary  and prophet. The most important formulations of his mature philosophy are  to be found here, such as the will to power, the need for a transvaluation  of all values, the eternal recurrence and the doctrine of the overman, the  higher individual in whom the mental and physical abilities of the species  are raised to the &quot;n&quot;th power. Now since God is dead, the human  race must aspire to a new, albeit non-metaphysical, transcendence and this,  Nietzsche proclaims in his gospel, is the overman, the human being in whom  the will to power is sublimated into creativity, reason, conscious purpose,  and who joyfully affirms the suffering entailed in life without resentment,  nausea or fear. This book, which is stylistically supreme, is a predecessor  of &quot;Thus Spake Zarathustra&quot; and also includes Nietzsche's  observations on related topics, art, the theory of knowledge, religion,  science and morality. The appendix of songs is masterfully translated by  Kaufmann, a renowned authority on Nietzsche.	2000-05-24
US	50719867	R26I7P21C32VUA	0879755962	301591247	The Critique of Pure Reason (Great Books in Philosophy)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	An enduring contribution to philosophy	Epistemology, the branch of philosophy concerned with the examination of the features and limitations of the faculty of cognition, was virtually dead for centuries. It underwent a revival in the seventeenth and  eighteenth centuries, with the rationalism of Descartes, Leibnitz and  Spinoza, in addition to the phenomenological idealism of the British  empiricists Locke, Berekely and Hume. Kant directs the solvent of his  scepticism against both the rationlists and the empiricists, inaugurating  his critical philosophy, and thus forging for himself a singular path in  the history of thought. He agrees with the empiricists that the sole  criterion of knowledge is experience, yet he draws a crucial distinction  between the phenomenal world of experience and the noumenal world of the  &quot;thing-in-itself&quot;, which transcends experience. As such, he is  led to recognise that space and time are empirically real, since they are  the conditions of experience; but they are, at the same time,  transcendentally ideal, since they are synthetic forms of the understanding  which cognition imposes upon the data of sense &quot;a priori&quot;.  Another transcendental principle, in this view, is causality, which may not  be derived from sense data proper but whose validity is nonetheless proven,  since it is a formal demand of cognition. The importance of Kant for  phenomenology, evolutionary epistemology and analytic philosophy has been  immense, owing to his emphasis on the extent to which external reality  comes to undergo modification in our understanding. &quot;The Critique of  Pure Reason&quot; remains an invaluable text, on which conceptual  philosophers continue to write dozens of books every year. The eighteenth  century academic German style of the original, which is bereft of the  saving graces of euphony, wit, or even irony, will strike the reader as  arid, yet, that aside, the philosophical relevance of this text shall  undoubtedly remain incalculable.	2000-05-24
US	50719867	RFJ5OANHYDMOW	0811200825	257095856	Maldoror: (Les Chants de Maldoror) (New Directions Paperbook)	Books	4	24	28	N	N	Holy cruelty	On one's first encounter with Lautremont's &quot;Maldoror&quot;, it will appear a virtually formless, incoherent and incompetent work -- &quot;a compilation of a sick mind&quot; -- until, that is, one becomes habituated  to its style. Hailed as one of the pioneering works of surrealism, this is  undoubtedly one of the most original and explosive meditations on pure  evil. Lautremont's glorification of crime and murder, his blasphemy, his  rhapsodic celebration of revolt, are, without a doubt, unsurpassed. Never  has a book more malignantly oozed more evil, misanthropy and menace. It  will jar any so-called &quot;decent&quot; person out of his/her comfortably  smug composure.	2000-05-05
US	50719867	RI8TIBTB252B8	0023671602	776687286	Descartes: Discourse On Method	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A philosophical treasure	A landmark in the history of philosophy and a founding text for modern scientific method, by which is meant cautious scepticism, disinterested enquiry, taking absolutely nothing on trust, but instead subjecting  everything to the searching knife of criticism. This is a key text, if you  wish to learn to be self-reliant and to develop the powers of your  individual mind. Astonishing -- an enduring contribution of a man who was,  and is most likely to remain, the greatest thinker in history.	2000-05-05
US	50719867	R1Y2K2Y837BDCM	0553212788	604725626	The Prince (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Mesmerising	This is book from the perusal of which one rises a king... It is as invaluable today as it was at its time. Just substitute CEO, Prime Minister, President or Chairman for &quot;prince&quot; and this book will  be found to be readily applicable even to today's world. These are timeless  precepts, assembled in a book that may be a theoretical treatise, but which  is nonetheless the product of a man extremely conversant with the realities  of political life.	2000-05-05
US	50719867	R21EUBFB42QFVC	0140442014	431703404	The Social Contract (Penguin Books for Philosophy)	Books	3	17	28	N	N	A thunderstorm that clears the air...but passes...	Rousseau's &quot;Contract Social&quot; has originated many false beliefs that are, though sometimes unwittingly, still even entertained today, such as the &quot;Noble Savage&quot;, the originary state of the individual  (allegedly in a condition of primordial solitude and self-relaince), a  social bond or contract (the historicity of which is extremely suspect) by  which separate individuals agree to form a social union (a society or  polity) and the gross fallacy of the innate goodness of man. This work, the  product of a morbidly paranoid Genevan who had the callousness and audacity  to leave his five children abandoned in an orphanage, owes its impact  mainly to the fire of its eloquence rather than to any of its ideas, which  are of no lasting merit. Like a thunderstorm, it cleared the air, only to  pass...	2000-05-05
US	50719867	R3VW8O8AYDQIPI	0140441921	301772964	The Book of the Courtier (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	11	15	N	N	The perfect courtier	Castiglione's &quot;The Courtier&quot;, a landmark in Renaissance literature, is a treatise presented in dialogue form, offering hints on how the courtier ought to act, to win the favours of ladies, to comport himself  and - to fight. Contrary to my first expectations, it is no less practical  and realistic than Machiavelli's &quot;Prince&quot;; Castiglione may seem  somehow unfashionable to the modern reader, with his stress on decorum,  honour and the importance of birthright, but has precepts endure, and can  be just as readily applied in a court of the sixteenth century as in the  present...	2000-05-04
US	50719867	R1K8JD0PKV64LS	1880985268	661726287	The Consumer	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Original and stylish	This is one of the most refreshing books I have read in recent months. The writing is very explorative. The imagery is intricate, gruesome, organic, scatalogical. M. Gira imaginatively conveys the darker and seamier side of  the psyche in his examinations of self-destruction, delusion, orgiastic  excess and loss of identity. Definitively worth noticing.	2000-05-01
US	50719867	R7EXVE8U53IDQ	0679720200	882163178	The Stranger	Books	5	5	8	N	N	The inauthentic man	Camus's hero, Mersault, is a lost man, a stranger in the society he inhabits. He knows nothing and cares for nothing but himself. At his mother's funeral, he finds it impossible to show emotion. But in one  premeditated gesture of self-liberation, a gesture by which he breaks the  social bonds that submerge his individuality, he kills an Arab on the shore  - in cold blood and seemingly for no reason - by firing five shots into him  and thus fully realising and concretising himself as an authentic being in  control of himself. This is the premise of the novel, an existential  classic, on a par with Kafka's &quot;The Trial&quot;.	2000-03-15
US	50719867	R2DEH9NUHKY3T6	0140445366	561231900	Dialogues Concerning Natural Religion (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	A shattering blow to theistic rationalism	The last word on the question of whether or not the universe was the product of a creative intelligence. Not only is it a profound challenge to the belief in divine causality, which is to say, the view that the universe  was the result of design, but it even impells the atheist to question the  foundations of his own position. A landmark in the history of the  philosophy of religion.	2000-03-15
US	50719867	R29QIYP3UC6AQ7	0679733736	126207643	The Myth of Sisyphus and Other Essays	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Electrifying	Along with Voltaire, Diderot and Montaigne, Camus ranks as one of the greatest of the &quot;philosopher-essayists&quot;. &quot;The Myth of Sisyphus&quot; revolves around the question of suicide, in Camus's view the  most important philosophical problem. Can it be justified or not? Camus  answers in the negative after presenting the reader with a stunning  assembly of sophisticated arguments and observations. The writing is free  of the dull, discursive, parenthetical style common to serious  &quot;academic&quot; philosophers. It is even free of the rhetorical  bombast and the whirling, cataclysmic declarations that characterise  Nietzsche, to whom Camus himself is indebted. The prose is masculine,  elegant, soulful. An electrifying meditation on absurdity and nihilistic  despair, rendered with insight and feeling.	2000-03-10
US	50719867	R2UY0BORQQ5ISS	0679735771	92932803	American Psycho	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Glorious Evil	&quot;American Psycho&quot; is designed as a lurid and kaleidescopic assault on the senses, hurling gore, mayhem and an endless barrage of brand names and trendy fashion labels at the reader. Bret Easton Ellis's  creation, the smug, rich, egoistic and psychopathic &quot;has-it-all&quot;  protagonist, Pat Bateman, is a contemporary Des Essenties. The scenes of  torture and carnage are the most striking parts of the book. The cruelty of  the conceited and seemingly unmotivated murderer reaches sublime heights.  However, the novel is let down by its humourlessness (the jokes have a  tepid &quot;old-and-tried&quot; flavour) and superficial characterisation  and lack of moral depth. Ellis, clearly a novelist of great potentials, is  nevertheless mistaken if he believes that an unconnected narrative (with  whole chapters almost reading like store catalogues) and a remorseless  preppie who kills with impunity, will serve as &quot;profound  statements&quot; about our age of decadence and materialistic excess.	2000-03-10
US	50719867	R3OFBQM3RWG0UH	0140206221	337030665	Anarchism (Pelican)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Incisive Survey	Though it has now been supplanted, or to put it more mildly, updated, by Peter Marshall's more recent &quot;Demanding the Impossible&quot;, Woodcock's history remains nonetheless an incisive and extremely readable  survey. A superb introduction to anarchist thought.	2000-03-10
US	50719867	R3B24T88SM76XM	0679733841	225572541	The Rebel: An Essay on Man in Revolt	Books	2	11	34	N	N	A flawed analysis	&quot;The Rebel&quot; is a book of tremendous, though unfulfilled potentials. Though it contains a wealth of factual data, Camus's examination of the paradoxes of revolt misfires on account of the faulty  premise of its argument: that revolt is an act by which the individual  rebel somehow invokes, in the intention behind his deed, the welfare of  others. Any other form of revolt that licences the murder or enslavement of  a fellow human being as a means to and end, violates, in Camus's view, this  human bond implicit in the genuine act of rebellion. The rest of the book  is an elaboration on this theme and the result is a splendidly written,  frequently opaque and - (what is most regrettable) - barely coherent and  sometimes pretentious treatise. Camus offers some valuable insights on how  movements laying claim to liberal ideals degenerate, once they are  established, into monolithic despotisms. It is interesting how this work,  written in the aftermath of the Second World War, which witnessed the  genocide of millions, marks a dramatic change of attitude in Camus, from  being the out-and-out existential nihilist of &quot;The Outsider&quot; to  becoming a humanist &quot;value-nihilist&quot;. It is a pity that the  convictions of such a profound and individual thinker were not strong  enough bulwarks against the enemy of all clear thought: - sentimentality.	2000-03-09
US	50719867	R1JD700WN3F9VQ	0803283679	256385818	Degeneration	Books	2	29	40	N	N	Alarming assault on the arts	Max Nordau's &quot;Degeneration&quot;, first published in 1892, is a scathing attack of the Decadents, Aesthetes, Parnassians and various artistic disciplines of the late nineteenth century. By adopting the  superficial and thus highly questionable theory of Lombroso, Nordau,  himself a physician and a disciple of the said Lombroso, interprets the  works of such stars as Baudelaire, Verlaine, Wilde, Tolstoy, Wagner,  Nietzsche and Ibsen as the result of  physiological  &quot;degeneration&quot; and classifies the various artists according to  their respective pathologies - egomania, sadism, exhibitionism and  mysticism. It is ironic that the author, a Zionist Jew with socialist  leanings, should have anticipated the programs of Fascism in the twentieth  century, with their public burnings of books, Cubist paintings and all  other art forms arbitrarily deemed as &quot;degenerate art&quot;. In  contrast to such art forms, these regimes, of course encouraged  &quot;healthy&quot; art, embodied in propagandist statues, usually  depicting the athletic male type with upstretched arm, triumphantly  affirming the ideals of authority, militarism and nationhood. Nordau is  admittedly readable, writing in a lively and vitriolic style, pouring scorn  on the figures he brings under his scrutiny. But it is a prohibitionist  work compiled by an arch-conservative purist, explicitly calling for the  suppression of so-called &quot;undesirable&quot; art and espousing a  reductionist theory that may have enjoyed a vogue for some decades but is  now recognised as manifestly worthless. An example of politics masquerading  as science, to be approached with caution.	2000-02-15
US	50719867	R21NQWSCFI056V	0717801268	606773421	Materialism and Empirio-Criticism	Books	1	2	20	N	N	A monstrous and hilarious botch	This stands as a testament to the mediocrity and imbecility of Lenin as a philosopher. It is a overtly lengthy, dull and plodding work. Lenin demonstrates that he has little of the flair of a born philosopher but the  heavyhandedness and arbitrariness of a politician. This book, which is so  antiquated that it now seems unworthy of even academic interest, is nothing  but a compilation of quatations from previous Marxists, glossed and  re-worked to back up official party policy. Also includes a typically  stupid and blustering polemic against the majority of positivists and  idealists who are all deemed as &quot;blockheads&quot;; only the  revelations of Marx and Engels, as Lenin seems to think, contain the  monopoly of infallible truth. A laughable example of the dogmatism and  intolerance of an ideology upon which was founded a totalitarian darkness  that could not maintain itself without resorting to terror, persecution,  assassination, sabotage and institutionalised ignorance.	2000-01-30
US	50719867	R2LEM3BGU44DT9	0899660576	115107087	Lord Jim	Books	5	0	3	N	N	Marvellous literary craftsmanship	Penetrating psychological insights, masculine prose, tense, gripping adventure.	1999-11-27
