US	50717925	R2ZZEK6QOLAP6X	1555582036	956053998	The OpenVMS User's Guide, Second Edition (HP Technologies)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Good Beginner's Guide To OpenVMS	This is an excellent beginner's guide to OpenVMS. It assumes virtually no computer experience at all, and goes through logging in and control keys at the beginning. But it also has chapters on file management, the file system, editing documents with EDT and EVE, the PHONE and MAIL utilities, symbols, Digital Command Language, security and program development. No prior exeprience at programming is assumed. There is a command index of the most commonly used DCL commands in the appendices. the book takes a hands-on approach and you will need access to a VMS box to actually get much out of the book. Hobbyist kits are now available for a reasonable price from Compaq, so that might be a good place to start if you don't have access via the Internet. A great user's guide. No CS theory is in the book, just basic use.	2002-02-25
US	50717925	R3TDDVGY3979TP	1555582036	956053998	The OpenVMS User's Guide, Second Edition (HP Technologies)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Great Intro To VMS	This is an excellent beginner's guide to OpenVMS. It assumes virtually no computer experience at all, and goes through logging in and control keys at the beginning. But it also has chapters on file management, the file system, editing documents with EDT and EVE, the PHONE and MAIL utilities, symbols, Digital Command Language, security and program development. No prior exeprience at programming is assumed. There is a command index of the most commonly used DCL commands in the appendices. the book takes a hands-on approach and you will need access to a VMS box to actually get much out of the book. Hobbyist kits are now available for a reasonable price from Compaq, so that might be a good place to start if you don't have access via the Internet. A great user's guide. No CS theory is in the book, just basic use.	2002-02-21
US	50717925	R1MI5EQ1WNKI11	0671448315	654388074	Real Men Don't Eat Quiche	Books	1	4	41	N	N	Dim-Witted Masculinity	This book is so ludicrous that I suspect that it was intended to be satire. The gist of it is that American men have been losing their masculinity over the last 20 years or so. \\"Masculinity\\" here is seen as something that I consider pathological, i.e., brutality, insensitivity, sexism and so on. It does have some value in that both males and females in our society are having to cope with changing gender roles and their attitudes towards traditional roles must be altered to a degree. This is something that the public has not heard a great deal about . . . we have often heard of the plight of females having a hard time in their roles of mother, provider, employee and wife in that they often feel conflicts as to how to remain \\"feminine\\" while using traditionally masculine traits that are necessary in today's work environment. Nevertheless, I really hope that most men don't take this atavistic crap too seriously.	2002-02-10
US	50717925	R2DJDGKASL618B	0130600814	397965972	HP-UX 11i System Administration Handbook and Toolkit	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Outstanding Lab Manual	I got this book along with Rehman's in order to study for the HP-UX certification exam. At first I wasn't too impressed with this title, as it seemed overly verbose and a good bit of the book seemed to be mere man page runoffs. But as I read through it, I saw that it was actually a very helpful workbook, which served me as a sort of lab manual to the Rehman's book. The book was overly verbose and repetitive in some places and that is a big minus, but all the same, the authors do give many, many examples, which makes it easy to see how to use each of the important commands on HP-UX. A separate chapter is given to each topic and this allows the book to go into much more detail for important items such as sed, awk, vi and the Korn shell than other books. (I have also noticed that things like this often come in handy quite often, even though it may not seem time well spent initially.) The man pages are included in the book not just to have printouts of them, but to be READ! So many users could benefit a lot from having read these admittedly dull instructions. The various ways you can use the commands will go a long way towards making a power user out of you and in turn, giving you a good idea of how HP-UX actually works. the book really does emphasise that. This is a manual on system administration, however, and is not merely a study guide and to get the proper benefit from it, rather than trying to \\"cram\\" it, one should spend about a year with an HP-UX server and this book to get really familiar with the system and to absorb all of the quirks of HP-UX to the fullest. There are a few typos, but those are pretty obvious. All in all, a very good guide.	2002-01-31
US	50717925	R3W3ZGODMQ1J0J	0140107835	784399376	Room On the Roof	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Great Novella For Kids	Ruskin Bond penned this novella when he was only 17 years old in 1951, and I think it is an excellent book for everyone but for young people in particular. The story started in this book is continued in &quot;Vagrants In The Valley&quot;, and if you get this book, I suggest you also get &quot;Vagrants&quot; as it completes and complements this book nicely. Both books are semi-autobiographical and offer a very good glimpse into the &quot;real India&quot;. Although it may be said to lack a certain depth or maturity, the book hold up surprisingly well with repeated readings due to its perennial freshness and wonder. We follow our young hero as he leaves a domineering and hostile, suffocating environment with his English guardian to explore the world beyond the protestant community that he was raised in. He essentially becomes a vagrant, but he discovers his freedom as well, and goes on to make friends with several other street children of the bazaar. He gets his first job, falls in love with an older woman, and grows a good deal in the book, before taking to the road and leaving his hometown when it no longer has anything to offer him. The end of the book will kind of leave you hanging if you don't read the sequel. By itself, I would give this book a three-star rating, but when combined with &quot;Vagrants&quot; I would promote it to a four-star. The innocence of a young writer and the yearning for adventure shine through particularly well in this little delight of a book.	2001-12-25
US	50717925	R20X0HIWQO35MA	0609806564	833377948	Aqua Erotica: 18 Stories for a Steamy Bath	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Not Arousing, But Interesting	I got this book after reading Mohanraj's other collection, &quot;Torn Shapes of Desire&quot;, which I liked a lot. While this collection doesn't quite measure up to the other, it is still quite an interesting read. Although no story here aroused me in the least, I still found them very interesting to read, particularly the stories that treaded on into rather dangerous territory, such as &quot;In Deep&quot;, which touches on the themes of sex and death and total surrender. &quot;Seven Cups Of Water&quot; (Mohanraj's own contribution) I also enjoyed immensely, as it touched on members in a society which would not tolerate the sort of relationship that they needed to make them whole (although I think Deepa Mehta's file &quot;Fire&quot; was a better story in this respect). there are numerous stories of homosexual encounters here, so if you find that offensive, it may be best to pass on this one. But I will say this for the book . . . unlike most &quot;erotica&quot;, it actually makes you think!	2001-12-18
US	50717925	R34ANKHY032LSG	1885876033	774552198	Torn Shapes of Desire: Internet Erotica	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Internet Porn	This is a nice little book of stories, poems and the like from Maryanne Mohanraj's postings on the Internet, mostly at alt.sex.stories. Although most of the stuff you find on the net is garbage, there is some high quality material to be found as well, and this is among the better, although certainly of not the highest quality. The stories are at once arousing and edifying and they combine sexuality and sensuality to provide one with a (usually) nice mix in stark contrast to many other writers, who are good at writing blatantly about sex but not so good at writing about the feelings that go along with it. Some of the stories are tacky or silly, but at least Mohanraj deals with certain real issues in her writing and usually doesn't focus in on the rather tedious mechanics of the sexuial act itself. Some of the depictions come off as sounding trite and traditional, but she does try to make the stories a little bit more than something to masturbate to, as a few do actually make you think. Not a bad collection overall, but for some really hot stuff, you might want to check out Anne Rice's erotica.	2001-12-06
US	50717925	RSE4OQK6CHJTJ	4062099810	86081732	Tariki: Embracing Despair, Discovering Peace	Books	1	6	27	N	N	Sad, Sad, Sad	This book is for people who are ready to die. Itsuki characterises himself (and Gautama, by the way) as the &quot;Ultimate Negative Thinker&quot;, a title he well-deserves. If you want to find someone else who is this whipped and this bleak, you'll have to resort to Sartre. I mean, he wears his weariness like a coat of armour . . . one almost thinks that this man if afraid to enjoy anything in life lest it be taken away. Among the statemensts in this book were gems like: &quot;Isn't it time that we saw ourselves as the small and helpless beings that we are . . . I would like us to imagine ourselves once again as insignificant, a trifling form of existence.&quot; What kind of sad sack can actually take any of this drivel seriously? Itsuki seems miserably ignorant of Buddha's teachings that &quot;everything is in one's thoughts&quot;, as Shakyamuni mentions in the &quot;Dhammapada&quot;. To Itsuki, life is &quot;continuous suffering and despair&quot; and one should train one's mind to &quot;expect nothing&quot; from teachers, from loved ones, from life itself. He fails to realise that by expecting nothing, he is merely being lazy and self-indulgent. One is conditioning one's mind to see only the negative and thus Nietzsche's criticism of Christianity is shown to be true of Shin Buddhism as well . . . when one sees the world as a dirty, disgusting place, then it BECOMES a dirty and disgustng place. If Beethoven or Gandhi had started from such assumptions, they would have just lazed around feeling sorry from themselves. The fatal flaw in all of this sort of thinking is like this . . . if I blindfolded someone and then told them I was going to strike a match, then touch it to their skin, they would tensen . . . they would expect the pain . . . and if I were to light up the match, blow it out, and then touch to their skin a crayon, they would yell &quot;Ouch, it hurts!&quot; despite the fact that they were not harmed at all. Their expectations -- and lack of expectation IS an expectation -- colours the way they see reality. Itsuki lived through some trying times it is true . . . but rather than face these trials with the strength inside himself, he decides to throw a silent tantrum and turn his back in the world and wear his weariness like a badge of honour. Pessismism like this is nothing but laziness and a spoilt-brattishness that comes from being peeved that everything was not handed to one on a silver platter. The world can be a hard, cruel place . . . or it can be a wonderful paradise. Which is it, really? The choice is yours . . . it becomes whatever you think it is, thus Itsuki's pessimism. The strength inside of each person is there . . . you just need to look inside to find it . . . the hardeness of the world can serve as a catalyst for people to find it, while those living in comfort rarely will since they rarely have to stretch themselves. Buddha enjoined s to feel compassion for others . . . one cannot do this while feeling pity for oneself. True compassion takes a mountain of strength . . . one must be very hard . . . with oneself . . . otherwise one will revel in this kind of misery and will not take advantage of the wondrous opportunity of this life that one has been given. Compare this geriatric claptrap with Tagore -- man who had a much harder life -- and who was convinced that he had been blessed to have been given the chance of living on such a wondrous plane of existence . . . and you will see the difference that an attitude can make. If you are ready to die, this book will confirm your despondency . . . if you are a fighter, look elsewhere.	2001-08-19
US	50717925	R2JWT8NC5E09A7	059048348X	464483141	It Came from Beneath the Sink! (Goosebumps, No. 30)	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Cute, But Not One of Stine's Better Books	There isn't really a whole lot to say about this book. A couple of kids discover a vicious supernatural sponge undeneath their sink and have a run of bad luck until they love the Grool to death. Cute, goofy, and a good read for a kid, but I have seen Stine do much better than this before.	2001-07-12
US	50717925	R1B3Y7I0LNW0AG	0066620724	490999440	Just for Fun: The Story of an Accidental Revolutionary	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Bill Joy Needs Wasabi	This book is a nice little introduction to the history of Linux and Linus Torvalds' view on the open source movement. Surprisingly, he seems a lot less militant than many of the open-source partisans, not really caring one iota for the ideology of the FSF, but revealing his aim as mainly having fun and amusing himself. The writing style is quippy and jumpy, which can get a little annoying sometimes, but it is very readable all the same. Linus talks about himself some and it seems that he fits the stereotypical &quot;geek&quot; pattern (and he doesn't seem to mind this). The most interesting part of the book was when he decided to get serious for a minute and talk abut &quot;Why Open Source Works&quot; . . . his arguments are interesting, but not totally convincing (especially considering Caldera's recent revamping of their licensing schemes). His main concern in that area is the protection of the consumer even though he states that he has no problems whatsoever with closed-source software !or capitalist ideas of how software should be marketed. I think a lot of Linux fanatics will be disappointed with this, as Linus seems to keep clear of the political area and amuse himself mainly with the technical aspects, and seems in fact, far less emphatic in his love of Linux than a lot of his fans are. Although not very good literature, it is an amusing diversion into a new paradigm in software development. Don't expect too much though.	2001-07-02
US	50717925	RGTJZPUDV2YTK	0072125659	138457250	Seagate Crystal Reports 8: The Complete Reference (Book/CD-ROM package)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Great User's Guide	This is a great book if you are new to Crystal Reports. The book does seem to be overly verbose in my opinion, and too much of the book is devoted to introductory material that most people could figure out on their own if at all familiar with a GUI interface of any kind. I think the beginning sections were belaboured a bit too much, and this left less room for the more complicated chapters near the end of the book. Still, as far as books go, this is probably the best one and most likely the only one that you will need. Crystal Reports is really a pretty dull topic, but the book covers all that you will really need to know about the subject. Hats off to the author for this one.	2001-05-28
US	50717925	R2ZIS6QZJCG26P	0688170684	453078745	Dirty Little Secrets of the Twentieth Century	Books	2	9	11	N	N	Dirty Little Secrets? Hardly . . .	The title of this book is misleading . . . it leads one to assume that the book contains a number of hidden and little known facts and figures that influenced the 20th century, when it reality it is just one man's oddyssey into the social and political forces and changes that occurred in the 20th century. No references to anything is given, so as history it is very weak. General trends are noted, most of which are obvious anyway, and some parallels with the past are noted. It is a nice, quick easy read and may turn up a few items that you weren't aware of before, but anyone familiar with current events or recent history will not be impressed. An example from the book: Why do Americans live longer than other peoples in third world countried? Answer: Better sanitation! A secret? You decide.	2001-05-13
US	50717925	R36PTR9KYBCVK9	1573220183	87885862	Living Buddha, Living Christ	Books	2	20	39	N	N	Great Attempt	Thich Nhat Hanh makes a great attempt at starting a productive dialogue between Christians and Buddhists, by drawing upon Jesus' life as well as Sakyamuni's and finding parallells. This is a great way to start, and Hanh seems to have a fine instinct in his ability to go to the very heart of Christ's teachings, but he goes a little too far, I think, in some areas. Some of what he is saying borders on an eclectic sort of syncretism, which does justice to neither faith by seeking to make alike what is different. At one point he criticises Pope John Paul II for some of his words to the effect that Jesus is the only way to god and that all other paths are basically heresy (although JP uses more sugary words). However, Roman Catholics hold to the view of papal infallibility . . . and this sort of criticism is in effect a criticism of Christianity . . . not so much because the pope mentioned it as beacause it expresses the attitude of most Christians. To a Christian, there can be only one path . . . theirs. To a Buddhist, the Christian path may be marginally acceptable in some areas, but the reverse is not true. Hanh interprets the Bible in a Buddhist manner . . . personally I think that this is closer to what Jesus' meant on the first place than the way the Christians usually interpret his words, but doing so will not make one any more likely to be heard among the people who he is trying to reach. He mentions that one needs to be free of concepts, and not bound by any doctrine . . . I tend to agree, but at the same time, the whole of Christianity as it has been understood since its inception has regarded that doctrine, the ideas, as essential, and immutable. In other words, Hanh is requiring that Christianity be Buddhism for it to be acceptable. (Also, how one can be victim of a 'wrong view', without concepts, is something of a mystery to me). He regards Jesus as one of his spiritual ancestors, and indeed the Gnostic Gospels discovered lately in Egypt by Muhammad Ali seemto show Jesus and his disciples as closer to the Buddhist notion of teacher/students and Boddhisattva/Buddha-To-Be's than as the singular god-man that Christians make him out to be. Still, for one to take the Gnostic gospels seriously and to take into heart Hanh's notions, Christianity would have to be totally restructured. His ideas of Mindfulness and the Holy Spirit . . . that the seed of the Kingdom of God within one and one's Bhudda-nature are one in the same seem to open up a promising area of dialogue, but his notion that one needs to draw a firm distinction between the historical Christ and the Christ within will not get very far in a dogma-bound faith like Christianity, as in Christianity these two are seen as inseparable. The book tried admirably to get a productive dialogue started, but unless attitudes change on a massive scale, this simply will not happen . . . in other words, it will not happen except in isolated pockets of open minded people who do not need to be told the things that Hanh is trying to get across. To a Christian, the singleness of Christ and his position as the ONE saviour cannot be compromised unless Christianity becomes something else. this is in keeping with Bishop Spong's view, but it will never be adopted by many. Still, many of the sentiments that Hanh expresses seem so genuone and heartlfelt that it is very difficult to not be impressed with this man. Few people have had to put up with such persecution and pain as he did in Vietnam, and to see how he came through it all with an obvious sense of love for others and greatfulness towards life is really inspiring. If you are interested in early Chrsitianity, mysticism (Christian or Buddhist), Buddhism and Gnosticism, and interfaith dialogue, this may be a great book to read, but don't expect it to make much of a wave in the move towards tolerance.	2001-05-09
US	50717925	R2TLQZTAKVLKNV	0892131349	561265045	Bhagavad-Gita As It Is (Paperback)	Books	2	18	44	N	N	Learn How To Be A Follower!	In general, the Gita has always made a big impression on me despite its faults. It opened me up to seeing the world in a way that I have never considered before. Still, I find several problems with it in general:<br />1) There is a constant wavering back and forth between the nature of reality as dualistic or monistic. For example, one of the primary notions n the Gita is that we all have our own individual karma and that we are reincarnated into various forms and positions in society based upon that karma. Yet in other places it seems that there is the older notion that &quot;god is all there is&quot; and that we are ultimately all ONE, that is to say, that atman in neach of us is identical with the Brahman that pervades the whole of reality . . . this is totally incompatible with monsism. If we are really &quot;all one&quot; then noone can have any individual karma, and we are forced to accept the Buddhist idea of the interdependant nature of reality . . . that no one's karma can ever be separated from anyone else's since we are all one. This also raises the problem of Krishna's existence . . . that is, Krishna comes to earth from tome to time when Dharma ebbs and this implies that at other times he is not here . . . also if Krishna is within everyone's heart, then why does Arjna not follow what his heart dictates rather than asking advice from someone else. Since the demonic people have Krishna at their heart as well as the sages, how are we justified in listening to the Krishna character alone, unless you take him as the archetype of the totally awakened person? Karma, reincarnation and the appearance of Krishna in the guise of a prophet are fundamentally  incompatible with the &quot;we are all one&quot; notion of the Upanisads. It is my belief that the more monsitic verses are the interpolation of some Vedantist who may have been a Vaishnava but  at the same time preferred the monistic notion of reality. But in the book, this becomes a hopeless muddle. <br />2)Krishna takes for granted that women are inferior to men and that casteism is an apporpriate way to organise society. This is idiocy to me, and most modern Hindoos tend to downplay these verses, but as usual Swami Know-It-All uses them to justify the oppression of women and lower-caste peoples. <br />3) The concept of duty is emphasised to heavily. I tend to think that the only real duty that one can have comes from the heart . . . it is unique to the individual, whereas 'duty' to Krishna seems mere conformity and the preservationof the status-quo of society. To my way of thinking, this is fundamentally destructive and oppresive. <br />4) The notion that the sense must be under control does not make one tranquil. Possibly this may be true if one has reached some sort of transcendental consciousness in which one &quot;goes beyond&quot; the limitations of normal consciousness and thus attains a peace that is far beyond what any ordinary pleasure could give. But to suppress one's desires, all this does is create a conflict between what one feels passion for and the prohibitions against them. This will create more turmoil and not relive it as it divides the mind into the repressive 'controller' and that which has to be controlled, thus dividing the Self against itself and creating more mosery than peace. <br />5) The first 12 chapters seem to have been written by a different author than the second 6. There is an obvious degeneration of style and point of view. The latter 1/3 of the book seems to be the product of some Samkhya philosopher bent on classifying everything accroding to the doctrine of the three gunas, and Krishna in these chapters is seen as a rather cold, nasty bloke, referring to somepeople as inherently daemonic as he hurls them down again and again into infamy, whereas in the previous 2/3 of the book, Krishna was seen as a more gentle, accomodating deity that would regard even great sinners as saints if they worshipped him with a pure heart. <br />6) The war element is quite problematic. The exhortations of Krishna to Arjuna to fight are unconvincing and usually illogical and inconsistent with the deeper message of the Gita. Particularly absurd is the part where Krishna tries to 'shame' Arjuna into fighting to save loss of face. This strikes me as being very, very immature. <br />These are among the many problems with the Gita, but for the most part, they do not take away much of it's beauty, and they are for the most part, universal throughout all the varied translations. The real problem with this particular translation is the attitude of Prabhupada. He manages to sustain a constant negative attutude towards the whole of existence, and is a proponent of all that is the absolute worst in Hindoosism. If you want to get a good grasp of exactly what has kept India in the bonds of casteism, meaningless conformity to authority. Prabhupada is about as arrogant as one can get (especially for one who has supposedly conquered his ego). He consistently reads his own prejudices into the book, and contrary to the general spirit of Sanatana Dharma, he is not at all tolerant or open-minded to any deviations from his own ideas. You either agree with whatever he says or you are a fool and a rascal (his words, by the way). Like most other evangelistic fanatics, only _he_ can be right -- everyone else is headed for the fire. Prabhupada's god is like the god of the Christians -- a ruthless tyrant in the sky who is bent on crushing indivuduality and making all of his follwers eternal subordinates. If you hate your life and are looking at a good way to malign anyone who disagrees with you, if you think only Brahmins are worthy of respect and all women are little better than dogs, this tranlsation is the way to go! If you are interested, however, in acheiving inner peace, personal growth, learning to be kind and understanding, and understanding what life is all about, you need to find other sources. His commentaries are harsh and rifewith the most idiotic of superstitions which usually go against all common sense, decency and scientific knowledge. All he does is warp Krishna's words into whatever prejudices he holds. This book has been probably the biggest stumbling block for many people who would have otherwise been quite open to the wisdom found in the Gita.	2001-05-02
US	50717925	R34A5GP1Z8RCZA	060960550X	263719775	Bhagavad Gita: A New Translation	Books	4	19	21	N	N	Translation???	One of the things that irritated me about his particular &quot;translation&quot; was the fact that Mitchell admits in the book that he has a knowledge of only &quot;rudimentary Sanskrit&quot;. If this is true, then I cannot have much faith in his &quot;tranlsation&quot;. Still, to anyone who has read any of the other recent translations, there will be little of surprise here. Although Mitchell may not know Sanskrit, he apparently has relied on someone who does in order to get this &quot;translation of a translation&quot;. One of the things that he mentions in this book that I agree with is that the first 12 chapers of the Gita and the last 6 chapters were written by different authors. In the first two thirds of the book, we see a kind, loving Krishna accepting all who try to reach him in any way they are able . . . even the sinful are seen as having a divine spark at their heart. This seems more in keeping with the earlier, Upanishadic tradition of advaita. The latter part of the book seems to have been written by some Samkhya philosopher bent upon classifyng everything according to the doctrine of the three Gunas. The latter part of the book is boring, repetitive, and seems to be on a considerably lower level than the rest of the book. Instead of the universal Krishna, we now have the angry god casting down the &quot;evil&quot; men again and again into infamy and who regards certain people as inherently demonic -- a stark contrast form the beginning chapters. Also of not is Gandhi's essay of Ahimsa and his view of how the Gita does not actually condone violence, but makes use of a war in order to present its message more clearly. Gandhi is not totally convincing in this, but it does provide a good counterpoint to those who use it as an excuse for violence and oppression in the name of god. Mitchell aslo quotes Thoreau in mentioning that Krishna's exhortations of Arjuna to fight are usually illogical and inconvincing. Although not a scholarly work, the introductoryand concluding commentary do bring up some important points.	2001-04-27
US	50717925	RI6E20IV4P5KA	0789720582	528014750	Special Edition Using Caldera Openlinux	Books	5	0	1	N	N	The Complete Guide To OpenLinux	When I first installed Caldera OpenLinux on my PC, I was a newcomer to Linux and didn't really know my way around. Caldera does provide decent documentation for its product, but the installation and user's guide is a bit spare fora newbie to make much use of. This book is the one that took me from being a wet-eared newbie to a competent OpenLinux user. The book assumes that you know very little about Linux and gives you an introduction to the history of Linux, the open source philosophy, the distributions of Linux and a host of other pertinent information before taking through Star Office, the K Desktop Environment (using and manipualting), the command line, package management with RPM, the file system, configuring the X Server, configuring sound, the file system, networking (including using Samba and NetWare), connecting to the Internet, reading the XF86Config file, tweaking, programming languages, compiling source code, shell scripting, runlevels, troubleshooting, and a range of almost every possible problem that a home user or small office user will run into. This book can get quite in depth, and is suitable for those who want to get into Linux quite deeply, or for simple casual use as a reference guide. This is the one book that should ship with every version of Caldera. With this book, you'll find that Linux really can be quite fun to learn and quite easy as well.	2001-04-20
US	50717925	R3IFHHUTR6ZS6K	1565924266	864318233	Learning the vi Editor (Nutshell Handbooks)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Best Guide To Using vi	vi has a well-deserved reputation as being one of the least friendly editors in the UNIX world. This book, however, makes vi relatively painless to use, even for those accustomed to GUIs. Nowadays vi tends to be used mostly for quick editing of configuration scripts and the expansive amount of detail here is not likely to be that useful to people except those who plan to use vi almost exclusively. If you follow the examples, and practive using vi while reading this book, however, you will find that it does cover all the basics well and that you will feel quite at home with this much-maligned text editor. Most of this information is available freely on the net, but it not collected in one place in such an orderly fashion as this. Much of the advanced features will probably be rarely used, but if you spend a fortnight with this book in front of a UNIX or Linux box, you will find that you will be a vi pro in no time!	2001-04-20
US	50717925	RE2ALWHFJYRRB	1565923472	553337007	Learning the bash Shell, 2nd Edition	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Good Introduction	This book is a good introduction to the Bourne-Again Shell for those absolutely new to it. The book assumes that you already know how to use the basic UNIX utilities, like cat, grep, find, and so on, and it does not attempt to teach them to you, but I think a chapter on them may have been helpful for those just coming to use the bash shell. Configuration tips, syntax and scripting examples make the book a very useful aid to one trying to become comfortable in the Linux world. Nothing spectacular, but it gets the job done.	2001-04-16
US	50717925	R2PCCUUODMVTYN	0078821738	648338016	UNIX Made Easy: The Basics & Beyond!	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Great Tutorial For The Absolute Beginner	This is an excellent tutorial for the absolute beginner. It assumes that you know nothing about UNIX, but that you do have access to a UNIX box and that you will be able to spend some time in front of it each day practicing the exercises given in the book. Most of the book is concerned with the command line, but you will be given a few exercises to do in regards to the X Windows system. The basic UNIX utilities are covered simply and adequately, the file system is covered in detail, as is text editing with vi. Near the end of the book, you are given some Bourne shell scripting exercises which are helpful in system configuration. this book does not cover installation and configuration and is definitely not intended for anyone with even a small measure of real-world experience with UNIX. Is basically a tutorial and nothing more, but will get you up to speed if you are 100% new to this OS.	2001-04-13
US	50717925	RK8JCQRU2QFEM	0835606430	310755047	Truth Is a Pathless Land: A Journey With Krishnamurti (A Quest original)	Books	1	4	4	N	N	It Never Fails . . .	Of all the people who ever shared his thoughts on the subject, Krishnamurti always remained adamant about one thing: all following perverts the follower. There is no saviour but oneself. No religions, beliefs or gurus matter, only the truth that you yourself discover. And as usual, a group of weak-minded followers decide to guru-ify Krishnamurti, to the very antithesis of all that he ever had to say. Ingram seems to fins an almost unreal significance in K.'s most trivial activities. In one chapter, he write that he was &quot;delighted&quot; when he discovered K. reading a joke book, rather than &quot;real&quot; literature. I can only imagine what would have happened if Krishnamurti had said something like, &quot;Oh, drat, my shoes are untied&quot;. I can just hear Ingram's response: &quot;And then the full force of the true meaning of this statement struck me; this is a perfect exampleof how Krishnaji was always awake to the present moment, and the singinficance of Krishnaji's untied shoes never left me.&quot; Jiddu Krishnamurti was a man who basically came up with the philosophy of Zen Buddhism up all on his own, but he excelled at practicing it far more than the Zen monks, who seem to be more rule-bound that most other religious orders. Although unique in that he empahsised that each and everyone of us has to find out for onself, his followers cannot resist turning him into a guru, some sort of god-man, which perverts the most basic ideas that he tried to impart. The man who wrote the book obviously got nothing from K.'s ideas or else he would have regarded him as less a teacher and himself as more the teacher, but he turns everythiung Krishnamurti ever stood for and turns it in its head. On the other hand, it does offer one a glimpse into the personal, informalside of Jiddu Krishnamurti and maybe worth a perusal for that. But the author was as blind as can be . . . don't use this as your guidebook on Krishnamurti's thought, it is completely the antithesis of whatJiddu always tried to get across.	2001-03-05
US	50717925	R3FHQXX8BZ5Q1X	1558743669	817918233	A Child Called It: One Child's Courage to Survive	Books	2	4	8	N	N	Half A Book	This book was OK in as much as it told in great detail the amount and severity of the abuse that Pelzer suffered as a child. What is surprising is that his refrigerator isn't full of skulls . . . but between the beginning of the book which told of hos abuse at the hands of his mother and the end where he says that he overcame the abuce and it's effects on his life, there is a gap . . . he does not tell us HOW he overcame the abuse; he skips from being taken away from his mother by the social welfare people and then he is an adult with nothing of his journey in between. Also, the division between his mother at the beginning of the book as a kind and caring person and the daemonic woman that he know through most of the book is a bit of a stretch . . . I am not syaing that it didn't occur this way, but only that I would like to have had a slightly better idea of what caused the rapid change. It is mainly a roster of abuses thathe suffered. A little more insight as to how he beat his mother by becoming the loving father he was at the end of the book would have been enlightening.	2001-01-29
US	50717925	RVYSF0CX34GBD	1576104893	58421410	Linux Install and Configuration Little Black Book: The Must-Have Troubleshooting Guide to Installing and Configuring Linux	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Installing Caldera and Red Hat	This book covers the intallation and configuration of Caldera Open Linux and Red Hat distros. The emphasis was on the GUI and practically no attention was paid to the CLI even though most work in Linux will be with command lines. It covers a lot of topics, but rarely goes into much depth. It is primarily for newcomers to Linux like myself who need advice on how to troubleshoot installations of Linux for the first time. If you already have Linux up and running or have gone passed the basic stage of learning anf familiarising yourself with Linux, then it won't be of much help.	2001-01-18
US	50717925	R1312ORY8ESSU8	1557285950	550410787	A Muslim Primer: A Beginner's Guide to Islam	Books	3	14	16	N	N	Has Its Faults	This book has a fair amount of detail about Islam, from it's history, it's rites, holy books and so on. But the author repeatedly insists on defending Islam from the worst of it's foibles. Although not a Muslim himself, he goes out of his way to defend the fatwa against Salman Rushdie, as it is &quot;not a matter of free speech&quot;. There is such a thing as being too open-minded. He seems to think that if a religion condones murder, then it is OK, and perfectly excusable. He defends the oppression of women as something totally justifiable, and thus, rather than eliminating the &quot;misconceptions&quot; of westerners about Islam, her merely shows that such misconceptions are nearer to the truth than he wishes to admit, but then chooses to disguise the intolerance in a whitewash of pious talk. The author seems unable to understand that as a Christian himself, he places himself as an enemy of the Islamic faith and actually makes him guilty of blasphemy, the same thing which he says the Muslims are justified in punishing by death! At least most Christians have learned to malign the Inquisition, even at the expense of the Bible, to some degree, but rather than trying to downplay the thuggishness of many elements in the Q'uran, the general tendency is to defend them. The Bible is not better than the Q'uran in terms of the savagery included and defended in the name of god, but fortunately, few Christians take it very seriously anymore. The use of violence in order to justify one's own position is a weakness, and not a strength . . . a genuine doctrine that would seek to elevate humanity would stand on its own without having to eliminate opposition. The author also goes on to detail a method of &quot;understanding&quot; and inter-religious doalogue between Christians and Muslims, which will never work, because both parties have to be open to the other culture's point of view, which both of their respective holy books expressly forbid. It's hard to have an open and friendly discussion when both sides will regard whatever the other side says as blasphemy! He advises Christians to regard there as being more than one way to salvation -- but his own faith denies this! The whole book was just a feeble attempt to justify a very narrow-minded and oppressive set of dogmas.<br />On the plus side, there is a fair amount of historical detail about Islam, and the important figures are highlighted. Great attention has been paid to the schims in Islam, such as those between Sufi, Shiite, Wahabi, Sunni and others. A number of prayers, rites and bit of doctrine are included and an explanation of the rationale behind them is usually attempted. The author goes out of his way to emphasise the strong points of Islam and anyone looking to learn about the faith would do well to use this book as one of their sources. Not perfect, but worth reading.	2001-01-16
US	50717925	R1BN6QBUL9GYVU	0070334846	287378210	Schaum's Outline of Tensor Calculus (Schaum's)	Books	5	48	51	N	N	Best Place To Start	This is probably the clearest ontoduction to tensor analysis that  is currently on the market. It makes a quite difficult and messy subject seem pretty straightforward. It's best to know your vector calc in and out before attempting this book, but it's a godsend compared to some of the other texts out on the market today. A great guide for engineering and physics students and the price can't be beat.	2001-01-05
US	50717925	R3856E83DECZ2X	0060193328	269737487	First They Killed My Father: A Daughter of Cambodia Remembers	Books	5	6	7	N	N	This Book Makes It Real	This is an excellent book of Ung's experiences in the Killing Fields of Cambodia, where she lived. The story is told by Loung Ung as an child, although filtered through an adult's eyes. The events occured when she was between 5 and 9 years old, but she tells it as though it is occuring during the present. This is a common literary device, but the fact remains that there is no way a child could accurately report the things that she saw to the extent that Ung does. Still, the book does bring home what the statistics about Pol Pot's reign can never do -- it shows the suffering caused on an individual level and the sufferings of someone who had no reason to be victimised. The book makes very painful reading as it brings one into the lives of one family that was basically destroyed by the madness of the Khmer Rouge. I would recommend this book to anyone if I thought that it would stop such atrocities from happening in the future, but then again, that is really not the way humans behave. A very sad commentary on the human race. Still, what is surprising is the ability not only of the author to survive emotionally but to actually thrive and to use her own experiences as an argument to get rid of mine warfare in the world. When we see the pictures of her family, we are left to wonder what might have been of 1/4 of Camboddia best and brightest had been allowed the right to life.	2000-12-27
US	50717925	R2NOIEJD88KMZA	0967998905	343811410	Learn Piano and Organ Chords in One Minute! The Complete Chord Guide for All Keyboards	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Chords, But Little Else	This book will teach you your chords with no problem. But it teaches you little else and playing any song only by changing  chords and no real melody is not going to help much. The material in the book can be learned in about a week, and no sight-reading knowledge is necessary, but any decent music teacher or more complete course will teach you the same material just as easily. And without the knowledge to read music, you won't be able to play songs anyway, unless you can play by ear, in which case you wouldn't need this book either! But it does what it promises. If you just want to know your chords and nothing else, this book delivers.	2000-11-14
US	50717925	R18R3E4UBJPJ0I	0838521878	582927542	Embalming: History, Theory & Practice	Books	3	5	12	N	N	Amusing Topic, Dull Style	Ths tyle that this book was written in is pretty dran boring, but then again, it is a textbook, and they're supposed to be dull, I reckon. The section on the history of embalming is a bit sparse and the legal requirements will put one to sleep, but the actual theory and practice I found to be quite informative, if somewhat out-of-date. I wish the pictures were in colour (at least some of them) as the balck-and-white rendering defeats the purpose of some of them; for example, we are shown an example of someone who died from carbon monoxide poisoning in which the extremitieas are shown to be bright red -- a characteristic of that type of death -- and the picture illustrating this is not in colour, so one really does not get any additional information from it. There are chapters on dealing with &quot;unusual&quot; deaths -- hanging, refrigeration, poisoning, etc., positioning problems, the methods of aspirating the various sections of the body, organ and tissue donors, care of the autopsied body, embalming of infants and those in various stages of decomposition and most other relevant topics, but I would hate for this to be one's only source -- there are better texts available and of course nothing can beat hands-on experience. This may be a good place for an interested party to start, but I think a more modern text would be in order for actual funeral practice.	2000-10-19
US	50717925	R11ZXVH0EY7Y3E	0811200043	150103386	The Dhammapada: Buddhist philosophy	Books	3	7	13	N	N	A Manual For Monks	The Dhammapada is quite literally a manual for monks . . . it is for people who intend to leave the world altogether to seek enlightenment. This does not mean it is of no use to the rest of us, but all the same, its applicability is quite limited for someone who feels that the world is something that is not to be escaped from, but lived in. The basic ideas common to all Eastern philosophy are here . . . non-attachment, good conduct (chastity, non-stealing, non-lying and so forth), although the form of the book makes it a little duller to read than some other popular treatments of the subject. The Gita more or less says the same thing, but in a much livelier manner. Contrary to popular belief, the Dhammapada does not in any way deny the existence of the Vedic gods -- Indra is mentioned many times -- but nevertheless the emphasis is on inner self-development rather than ritualistic supplication to the gods. A very traditional heaven and hell are believed in -- quite literally it seems -- and the notion of  &quot;Mara&quot;, the tempter personified, seems the answer to the Christian devil. Still, unlike Christianity in general, the emphasis is on the inner person -- there is some very powerful material here in that sense. What one does and thinks determines one's character. The existence of the wicked is punishment in itself, and although hell is admitted to exist, it is not the primary reason to avoid sin. Preaching is looked down upon unless the person doing the preaching has mastered himself first. The mastery of the individual self and mind are the most important notions here, I think . . . the morality is mainly a means to an end. Although nothing very new or unexpected will be found in the Dhammapada, it does place a great deal of emphasis on individual responsibility and the power of the individual to affect his own destiny. Still, the eliminating of all desire, passion, and even love does not seem to be the way, to me, to achieve anything other than indifference to a world that one also has a genuine responsibility to. At what point this book can be said to be &quot;Buddhist&quot; rather than &quot;Hindoo&quot;, I do not know, as the teachings are so similar -- it could very plausibly be considered an Upanishad. A good place to start one's study of Buddhism, but not very deep. Does not possess the power of allusion and suggestibility as strong as many other texts.	2000-09-29
US	50717925	RBO79D038RDAY	0385489463	154628064	Beyond the Darkness: A Biography of Bede Griffiths	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Story of An Amazing Man	While vastly inferior to Bede's own writings about his life (&quot;The Golden String&quot; especially), this book gives a great account of Bede's development from his formative years at Eastington, where he engaged in a Waldenesque experiment in &quot;simple living&quot; (which left a lasting mark upon him) to his nearly forty years in his ashram in India. Bede shows himself to be a genuinely ecumenical man, taking a wealth of ideas and concepts from all religious traditions that he comes into conduct with (but especially the Hindoo faiths). A man years ahead of his time, he would most probably had been excommunicated if many of his ideas had received more attention in the Roman church. He was in favour of radical reform of the Catholic Church, which he had began to think was outdated and did not speak to people in the way that it once did -- and that if it did not change its approach to speak to people in this modern day, that it would eventaully cease to be of relevance altogether. He was in favour of a married clergy and denied that the pope should be the head of the whole church, but that this was a corruption of the original church which had the pope of Rome as merely the &quot;first among equals&quot; -- a position that he was supposed to share equally with various other bishops throughout Christendom. His theology tended to be on the mystical side, which, to me, makes much more sense than the Biblical literalism that is sweeping the world today. He was also of the opinion that Jesus' message was at odds with the Old Testament, but that it agreed in all its essentials with the teachings of the Gita. His embracing of the similarities of Christianity and Hinduism was particularly impressive, especially in this day of finger-waggling evangelistic denominationalists who assure us that only they can be right. Bede always kept an open mind and was a seeker until the very end. He never stopped growing and learning -- something that would have been impossible if he had closed his mind to any other opinions other than his own. He is an example of a very, very rare type of individual. A wonderful look at an amazing human being.	2000-09-25
US	50717925	R1N540LWED8EP7	0967812313	259762879	Might is Right - The Survival of the Fittest	Books	2	16	25	N	N	A Study of Tyranny	In this book, Redbeard attempts to &quot;tell it like it is&quot; by describing reality as he sees it with no sugar-coating. He describes &quot;lex talionis&quot; and the rule of nature . . . the rule of the strong over the weak and the unjust over the just. For the most part one has to admire his honesty, but there are a few problems with the book. For one thing, he concentrates only on the negative -- the positive aspects are ignored totally, and this lowers the book from a genuine study of human nature to a mere propaganda pamphlet. He keeps the Vlad Dracul's  in mind, but omits the Ashoka's  altogether, although they accomplish no less than the tyrants. He never stops to think about the relationship of man to his nature. That is, human nature seems to be fixed, but to what degree is this actually true? Taking a Gurdjieffian perspective, one could say that &quot;man is incomplete&quot; and has a long way to go yet. Regarding all people as animals, you will find no surprises in history, but also will be hard pressed to describe the internal development of any of a large number of human beings beyond such primitive levels -- all people fashion their own character by actions and attitudes which all humans have a control over to a degree. This is omitted as well as it does not support his argument. Also, if what he is saying is taken as a manual on how to behave one must not only already have a substantial amount of &quot;power&quot; but also be something of a sadist, and occasionally he gets downright absurd. For example: &quot;Blessed are those who believe in nothing, for never shall it terrorise their minds&quot;. Maybe not, but it will also rob one of all direction and purpose. It may be compared to the far superior &quot;Prince&quot; by Macchiavelli and to the &quot;Arthashastra&quot;. A major fault, however, is the lack of mentioning of the effects of this sort of attitude. For example, in the Sanskrit &quot;Arthashastra&quot;, the methods and means of attaining power are focused on, but unlike &quot;The Prince&quot; or &quot;Might Is Right&quot;, it also includes the end results of these ambitions -- death. The absolute despot can trust no one, and will be killed. Each action that anyone takes has an affect on his own psychological being as well as the being of others, which will cause a certain degree of reaction, and even the most maniacal tyrants are not invincible (it makes an interesting study to read the history of the Roman Emperors -- many of whom were murdered by trusted friends --  as they seem to have put into practice what Redbeard merely theorises about). The end result of having no values seems to be a sort of external nihilism, in which power is seen as the only ambition one has left because all others have proved illusory -- nevertheless, this is an attempt to fill the existential nothingness of a dictator's consciousness with more temporary balms, which leave one as empty as before. At least Macchiavelli had the underlying ethical aims of the prince for his kingdom -- the motive here is pure selfishness. Power is external only, any sort of power over oneself is rejected as illusory. There is no logical argument that is put forth, merely a catalog of opinions in the form of a dogmatic set of statements. Nevertheless, the book can be of some use to psychology students, politicians, and historians, but should be kept out of the reach of immature people. This was the book that Anton LaVey plagiarised his &quot;Satanic Beatitudes&quot; from in the &quot;Satanic Bible&quot;, with minor changes. Not really for the sophisticated or philosophically-minded. Or  anyone with a conscience. For  an opposite perspective, see Frankl's &quot;Man's Search For Meaning&quot;.	2000-09-25
US	50717925	R3OGOWT5PZIZDY	0922915008	485337376	Satanic Witch	Books	4	18	22	N	N	La Vey's Best Work	The &quot;Satanic Witch&quot; is LaVey's best work by far. It is really a manual on how women are to manipulate men for their own advantage, and thus falls into the category of what LaVey calls &quot;lesser magic&quot; as opposed to the &quot;ceremonical magic&quot;that he describes in the &quot;Satanic Bible&quot;. The crux of the book is that all mean are &quot;dirty little boys&quot; and that the key to mainipulating men is throught the &quot;law of the forbidden&quot;. That is, by using sex and allusions towards sex, any woman will be able to coax any man to do whatever she wishes. He overstates his premise, as usual -- some of these techniques will be useful some of the time, but they should not really be counted on. LaVey seems to think that most people are so stupid that they can barely tie their shoes and will not be able to tell whenever they are being &quot;taken for a ride&quot;, which is simply not true. He uses the idea of the feminine mystique in order to &quot;fascinate&quot; or cast a spell on males, while the females play the vixens. This book seems to take as axiomatic the general inferiority of women in general (otherwise why would they need to resort to such subterfuge?), but claims that it is natural for females to be at enmity with others of their sex and that they should use all of their charms to the utmost. Unfortunately, he does not make a distinction between playing the vixen and being one. It may be one thing to use deception to get what you want with strangers, but to take such deviousness home would most definitely not be beneficial. LaVey also puts forth an absurd method of &quot;typing&quot; people by their bodily conformation -- associating a certain personality type with a certain body type -- a form of pseusdoscience which has long ago been debunked. He also has a tendency to encourage women to use those techniques which he himself finds enticing, but which other people may not. He prefers ladies in high heels and dresses . . . I know of many men who do not, and such methods may backfire if the temptress is not careful. And the techniques that he suggests are definitely not foolproof, so anyone who tries to use his suggestions may very well find that they are not as valid as LaVey seems to think. For an opposite perspective that is equally valid, see &quot;How To Make A Man Fall In Love With You&quot;. This book would profit marketing and adverstising professionals much more than the average person, as sex is often used to sell merchandise in modern marketing campaigns. Contains little of the sort of material found in his more &quot;spooky&quot; books, but does contain a wealth of citations and interesting information, unlike any of his other works.	2000-09-25
US	50717925	R3NZZ3A2GC97AN	0892133295	379528080	A Second Chance : The Story of a Near-Death Experience	Books	1	11	27	N	N	More Tripe From Swami Know-It-All	Another one of Parabhupada's propaganda pamphlets, this book gives the story of Ajaamila's &quot;near-death experience&quot; as reported in the  Srimad Bhagavatam, one of the Puraanas. The Bhaktivedanta Book Trust tries  to pass this off as a record of a genuine NDE, but nothing in Ajaamila's  experience corresponds to anything whatsoever in any record of any known  NDE report. Ajaamila near death, calls upon his son (named Narayana, after  god) and thus when the Yamadutas (demons) come to drag him a way to hell,  Krishna, through his kindness, send his servants to stop the demons from  carting him away to the infernal regions. Even though Ajjamila had lived a  sinful life, he is saved by the chanting of god's name, even though he was  not referring to god, but his son. According to Prabhupada, if one  remembers Krishna at death, even if one does not remember him in anything  other than hatred or indifference, one attains liberation through Krishna's  grace. Prabhupada, as usual, shows himself to be a representative of all  that is worst in Hinduism, defending the caste system and malighning any  sort of sexual activity (even in marriage) other than for procreation. All  mahavadis (the Brahmanical &quot;imperesonalists&quot;) he uses as his  whipping boys, stating that they merely corrupted the teachings of the Gita  and Upanishads (which -- of course -- only Prabhupada is qualified to  interpret, as he is free from any taint of personal opinion!). He refers to  the attributeless nirvana of Brahman which the Upanishads hold as the  ultimate reality as merely the effulgence of the Supreme Personality of  Krishna, which will ultimately lead one to rebirth. And he maligns the  asthanga yoga of Patanjali in favour of mindless chanting of the maha-matra  in the tradition of Caitanya (whom he condsiders to be an incarnation of  Krishna). One cannot read any spiritual text wothout the aid of a  &quot;self-realised&quot; guru (i.e. Prabhupapda himself) whom one must  submit to completely and obey without question. For a guy who has  supposedly conquered his ego, Parabhupada is as arrogant as one can get.  You are either his disciple or you are a fool and a rascal (his words, not  mine). He is as dualistic as one can get and still remain a Hindoo. As an  example of Hindu fanaticism and superstition, this book is excellent -- as  a genuine religious text of any depth whatsoever, it is useless. Look  elsewhere unless you are a blind follower without a mind.to completely and obey without question. For a guy who has  supposedly conquered his ego, Parabhupada is as arrogant as one can get.  You are either his disciple or you are a fool and a rascal (his words, not  mine). He is as dualistic as one can get and still remain a Hindoo. As an  example of Hindu fanaticism and superstition, this book is excellent -- as  a genuine religious text of any depth whatsoever, it is useless. Look  elsewhere unless you are a blind follower without a mind.	2000-09-20
US	50717925	RX6UKCSQLAYWY	1573220256	842182403	Ethics for the New Millennium	Books	3	16	29	N	N	Good Ideas, But . . .	The ideas that the 14th Dalai Lama suggests in this book are excellent, but the main problem, as always in the case of ethics, is that the people who are most likely to read this book are the ones who are least likely to need this advice; and the ones who most need to follow these suggestions are those who are least likely to bother. The approach is here is purely ethical -- there is really no talk of religion, and this makes the book equally applicable to Buddhist, Jew, Hindoo, Jain, Parsee, Christian, Muslim, Wiccan, Satanist, Setian, Santerian, agnostic, atheist and so on. The idea he uses is that regardless of one's religious or philosophical persuasions, that everyone is seeking after happiness, and that certain forms of conduct are more conducive to one's own happiness as well as to the happiness of others. One of the primary things that he emphasises is the state of one's heart and mind in the performing of any deed -- in law this would be called motive or intent, and for practical purposes, it could be called &quot;goodwill&quot;, but the Dalai Lama chooses to introduce some rather unhelpful Tibetan terms instead. The measure of the morality of an action is based upon the goodwill and intent of the person performing the action. Thus any sort of action that a person performs, to be purely ethical, must be accompanied by goodwill and the intent of non-injury to others. This requires also not returning evil for evil, so in effect, what he is doing is merely restating Kant's categorical imperative in a much less intimidating and accessible way, but he does not seem to realise that the purging of all ill-will and lack of compassion and love from a person's heart is really a lifelong task which most people never are able to fully accomplish. Loving your enemies, having respect for others regardless of their actions and feeling a sense of goodwill towards all are wonderful concepts, and make great ideals to strive towards, but to put them into practice is very difficult. To change the state of one's heart is no small undertaking and it is something that requires continual vigilance, self-possession and effort -- especially when one is under pressure to do the exact opposite by one's natural instincts. As always, we know what needs to be done, bu how exactly we are to do it -- how we are to put it into practice in our daily lives -- this is the problem, and it remains unsolved here as always. The Dalai Lama himself is a good example of what he is suggesting -- despite most of his friends being butchered by the Chinese during the invasion and takeover of Tibet, and being forced from his homeland, he seems to have no sense of hostility or hatred towards the Chinese . . . but this is something that occurs within the heart of the individual . . . how many of us in similar situations would be able to react in the same way . . . even if we wanted to? Emotions are not usually subject to reason. This book is great for forming a sort of ideal to live by, but then again there is a huge difference between ideals and praxis, and the uniting of the one with the other requires a mastery of the self, and not merely a set of rules to follow, and that is a very tall order. A good read, but offers no real solutions as all solutions are within each and every one of us -- and for his ideas to work, people have to make momentous efforts to apply them within their own lives -- not just a few here and there, but all of us -- and that is now, as it has always been, the real problem of ethics. The people who read books like this are already trying to master themselves, and thus do not need such books. Those who cause most of the hurt and strife in the world will not even bother. Still, the best any of us can do is to change ourselves. As Gandhiji once said: &quot;You must be the change that you wish to see&quot;. But it is still much, much easier said than done.	2000-09-20
US	50717925	R2TZAYLQRT8ETI	1555532373	783064382	Women In Prison: Inside the Concrete Womb	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Well Researched And Informative	A look at women in prison, this book describes in detail the inhumane  psychological conditions in which most incarcerated people have to live.  There are few surprises here -- it is nor secret that prisons to nothing to  deter crime in the least -- quite the opposite, in fact -- and that most  people who are incarcerated could be much more effectively rehabilitated  using other means, except for the minority of violent offenders. Although  the author gives an accurate and detailed description of prisons as they  really are, I doubt if anyone will take notice since she does not go to  much trouble to give any reasonable alternatives. An excellent study in one  of the most atavistic practices of the modern era.	2000-09-18
US	50717925	RADUSEH41AXAJ	0394715586	379126923	Our Nig: Or, Sketches From the Life of a Free Black	Books	3	46	54	N	N	The North Wasn't Much Better	The female child of a white female outcast and a black freeman, the author  gives a detailed account of what it was like being raised by a white family  in the pre-Civil War North of the United States (a household where she was  abandoned by her mother at 3). This biography gives a general idea of what  a Negro's life in the North was like -- and it was not much different from  that life of a slave in the South. The mistress of the house was brutal  beyond measure, but many of the other family members were reasonably kind  (though not kind of enough to put a stop to the abuse), and it makes one  shudder to think of what could have happened in a family who had nothing  but Negro-haters in it. Still, she recounts how she got a small measure of  schooling, and how she eventually became a Christian (something which the  lady of the house -- a Christian herself -- opposed) and her eventual  marriage. An upsetting story, it is nevertheless of much more value than  &quot;Uncle Tom's Cabin&quot; as it was told from the point of view of the  victim and not a sympathetic white.	2000-09-15
US	50717925	R5QLW546IGII2	0684839342	226373744	Gitanjali: A Collection of Indian Poems by the Nobel Laureate	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Exquisite Verse	Although this book cannot be considered genuine poetry the way it is -- the author admitted himself that he had translated the Bengali verse into English prose -- it is still among the most poetic and sweetest lyrics that we have in English today; what one migh call a &quot;prose poem&quot;. These verses seem innocent, fresh, full and full of wonder -- spirituality at its best. Most of the songs in the book are religious in nature, but so tender that they are almost ecstatic. Rabindranath is totally naked here -- there is a vulnerability and a sincerity of emotion that is genuinely touching. The poet seems to see the whole world with the eyes of a child, full of inexpressible wonder and ineffable sweetness. It is as though Rabindranath has unconvered the art of seeing the sacred in everyone and everything. This is one of the greatest collections of poetry that I have ever seen. Each poem almost brought me to tears -- I can see why it affected Yeats so much. This volume is a rare and radiant jewel.	2000-09-15
US	50717925	R35BT6YIO8OTBK	087259453X	674333177	Tune in the World With Ham Radio/Book and 2 Cassettes	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Best Place To Start	This was the book that I used to get my Novice amateur radio license. It  contains all of the theory and regulations that you will see on the exam,  inlcuding radio wave propagation, electrical principles, radio theory,  block diagrams, and so forth. One month of study using &quot;Tune In The  World&quot; will get you your novice ticket. This is not only the best book  to start with, it should be your only book to start with!	2000-09-13
US	50717925	R2Q8YEXX938KRQ	0891979204	266382271	Reverence for Life: Sermons 1900-1919	Books	2	5	16	N	N	Genuine But Dull	This was my introduction to Albert Schweitzer's work, and I wasn't much  impressed. The book contains 15 very, very short sermons that he preached  to his congregation at his church in Africa, where he was a missionary. As  sermons go these are pretty good -- there is a minumum of dogmatism and a  great deal of ethics, as might be expected based upn Schweitzer's life, but  although they did seem very genuine, they also seemd dull and not  particularly original. In general, sermons have never impressed me very  much, as I have always favoured vital religious experience and action to  empty words, but Schweitzer -- to his credit -- was one of the few who  actually lived what he preached, which is a welcome contrast to this day of  Swaggart's and Graham's who spend their time waggling their fingers at us  without lifting a finger to help their fellow human beings. Like most  Christians, Schweitzer has an absurd notion that Christianity is superior  to all other religions and thus he has no problems in trying to convert  others without looking to find the beauty or truth in the native religions,  but due to the nature of his faith, that is perhaps unavoidable even if it  is deplorable. The sermons are very low-brow, leading one to think that he  was inclined to try to reach the &quot;common man&quot; than to push his  theology. He steers clear of superstition, which is also a welcome plus,  but this collection still left me cold. Might be good for devotional  reading, but there is little of lasting intellectual value here.	2000-09-13
US	50717925	RLSGJKIQZ9GM0	0060900075	554528426	The Doors of Perception and Heaven and Hell	Books	2	181	226	N	N	Interesting	This is an interesting book -- it is really two books in one -- &quot;The  Doors of Perception&quot;, in which Huxely recalls his first experience  using mescalin, and &quot;Heaven and Hell&quot;, which is considerably more  speculative. Of the two, the latter is by far the better book. The former  deals mainly with the mescalin experience itself, which I can assure you,  is impossible to convey in print. One caveat here for potential  psychonauts, however: Read Wilson's account of his own mescalin experiment  in his &quot;Beyond the Outsider&quot; as well as Sartre's experiment with  the drug. How one reacts to the chemical depends wildly upon one's own  personality. Most people will not react the way that Huxely did, as he  tended to intellectualise the whole world -- to think instead of doing. One  cannot expect a simply blissful experience regardless of one's state of  mind and personality -- these are factors in the trip. Huxely took a small  dose and never suffered from ego dissolution common with higher doses. If  he had, he may have had a greater insight into the ideas that he used in  his &quot;Perennial Philosophy&quot;. The Hindoos of India used to use soma  (a undetermined psychoactive similar to mescalin in its effects) to achieve  a sort of cosmic consciousness in which one regards oneself as being at one  with the Brahman, the all-pervading universal spirit. What he did not  mention is that mystics from many religious traditions mention that they  can often get into states very similar to mescalin-induced ecstasies via  meditation, something that is infinitely preferable to ingesting a foreign  substance, as it is not of much use unless reproducible at will. His ideas  in the latter volume are more along these lines, although he does mention  some things that could be dangerous. He suggests that most people could  benefit from a &quot;mescalin holiday&quot;. I totally disagree. For the  more indulgent, it could prove a disaster. Huxely was a man of exquisite  self-control; others who do not possess such control may be in for problems  if introduced to such a powerful drug (the &quot;Beat&quot; Poets come to  mind). Also, to many it would be merely unsettling and disturbing, while  for others a means of escape from the real world. His speculations about  the brain being &quot;Mind At Large&quot;, to use Broad's term, is  intriguing, but offers no evidence in support of it. The notions that most  religious experiences being closely related to the mescalin experience may  prove insightful, but as for now, most use this book as an excuse for  irresponsible recreational drug use. Comical, pathetic, even absurd at  points, it nevertheless makes a point that many others fail to grasp, which  he should have used to more effect in the &quot;Perennial Philosophy&quot;  -- that at the heart of religion and human life, is an experience of  reality which the conscious mind conceptualises until the world and life is  less of an experience than a symbol. Zen students may find this perspective  quite enlightening. For a more detailed look at psychoactive  experimentation, see R. H. Ward's &quot;A Drug Taker's Notes&quot; and the  notes from William James' experiment with Nitrous Oxide. Also, for  information on reproducing the mescalin experience at will, look into  research on Kundalini yoga and tantrism.	2000-09-12
US	50717925	R3V9X1MC3ERTDB	0140441212	23831265	The Bhagavad Gita (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	28	30	N	N	Good Prose Rendering	Mascaro's translation, while widely acknowledged as not the most accurate,  is a very good introduction to the Gita. The style is prose throughout,  which brings out none of the Gita's beauty, but as for as understanding  goes, there few deficiencies here. This should probably not be one's sole  resource in studying the book, but fortunately, ther is no commentary so  that the reader is left to make up his or her own mind about the value of  the book. Nearly all the Sanskrit words have been translated, so that the  feeling or reading something &quot;foreign&quot;, common to students of the  Gita, is noticeably absent. The introductory essay is helpful, but not  essential to the understanding of the Song. All in all, a good attempt, but  for a better rendering, try Ramanand Prasad's translation, as it is a bit  more modern and moves easier than this one.	2000-09-12
US	50717925	R2BSQS1OTO88L5	0700702105	345952968	Popular Dictionary of Hinduism	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Great Study Aide	This little tome is a great study aid for anyone interested in Hinduism or  the associated religious culture of India. It has many, many definitions  and an introductory essay about the faith. Since to most non-Indians,  Hinduism seems rather foreign and since the language barrier only  exacerbates this feeling, the defintions of all the stock terms that are  used in the philosophical writings of India are a great help. The six  traditional schools if Indian philosophy are discussed as well as the holy  books, sacred sites and so on. It was a great help to me.	2000-09-12
US	50717925	R2I7RXJWVER5VL	8120813901	935454116	Bhagavad-Gita  (The Song of God)	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Wonderful Translation	It's about time that we get a new translation of the Bhagavad Gita. The  most popular version nowadays seems to be Swami Prabhupada's version, but  unfortunately, he seems to think he is god. Sri Prasadji takes a much more  low-key approach, simply translating the Gita to the best of his ability  and allowing the reader to make sense of it rather than forcing his own  opinions on others. Any time there is the possibility of confusion,  Prasadji defines his terms and goes to the extra effort to make sure that  what Vyasa was trying to describe is clear to even ones not familiar with  Indian philosophy. More accurate than most other translations and rendered  into modern prose, this makes an excellent place to start with if you're  new to Eastern thought. Few terms are left in Sanskrit other than those  that are necessary (Dharma, Karma, etc.). A wonderful addition to any  seeker's library.	2000-09-01
US	50717925	RQ9LS6M6N79RB	0911206094	65177871	Bhagavad Gita	Books	5	18	21	N	N	One of the Best Translations	This is one of the best translations of the Song of God that I have ever  come across. Swami Nikhilananda is the translator -- the actual commentary  is taken from Sankaracharya's famous writings. However, as this book was  translated as a Ramakrishna monk and uses Adi Sankara's commentary, the  emphasis is on radical dualism. The other schools of thought are mentioned  in the intorduction (Ramanuja;s qualified non-dualism and Maadhva's  dualism), but they are not emphasised. This does give the work a bias, as  the Geetaa over and over seems to waver back and forth between the monistic  ideals (similar to other Upanishads) and the dualism that is common in much  of Hinduism today. Also, a big plus is a summary of the Mahaabhaarata that  allows the reader to make a little bit more sense of the battle itself and  the goings on in the first chapter. A very good resource for those  interested in the advaitic approach.	2000-08-30
US	50717925	RL0R4FARQKDYT	3822871818	926817988	Asian Ladies (Photo Book Series) (English, French, German and French Edition)	Books	2	30	46	N	N	Soft Porn	I got hold of this book after browsing Ommer's &quot;Black Ladies&quot;,  which I was very much impressed with. Unfortunately, this volume did not  live up to it's predecessor. The one thing ostensibly missing in these  photographs was the sense of the individuality of every woman that was such  a powerful presence in the former book. The photographs in this book seemed  to me to be little more than soft porn . . . there was very little of the  personality of the model that seemed to come through these very  stylized  photos. The emphasis on icy, remote sexuality devoid of  warmth seemed the  antithesis of what I had expected based upon &quot;Black Ladies, which  seemed to portray sexuality as only one part of a whole person and not the  sole reason for the viewer's interest&quot;. The models almost all had  these vague, stilted expressions on their faces that seemed totally bereft  of character. A teasing coyness and mechanical pseudo-eroticism rather than  organicism seemed the emphasis here. The artificiality was not avoidable --  it all looked as though the photographer and designer was trying to dupe  libidinous males with raw sex rather than doing genuine art that would  appeal to  everyone. Rather than emphasising the individual, traditional  manners of  protraying oriental women were employed . . . the shy, innocent  childlike seductress, oozing charm from very pore but with little or no  sense of personhood, a mere toy for male lust. The models seemed little  more than a series of wax mannekin-like figures employed mainly to inflame  lust than to evoke any sort of deeper, haunting emotions in the viewer.  Here there was nothing but glazed, indifferent eyes and a sense of  detachment that made the models appear very remote,  invulnerable, and  slightly less than human. Few smiles, little ocular expression, dead  countenances . . . these models did not seem to be caught with their  emotional walls down, but seemed to know that the purpose of this book was  topromote empty eroticism. Their  countenances were all tabulae rasae. All  of the models are young and thin (a problem that his previous collections  have also suffered from --  as though only nubile youngsters can be  considered worthy of artistic ends. Very few of the pictures in this  collection made me think, &quot;Who is this person I am looking at? What is  she thinking?&quot; and so on. Very few of the poses seemed natural in the  least, and one was acutely aware in almost every instance that the models  were &quot;posing&quot;, which takes away from the sense of spontaneity  that the best photographers manage to capture. Several of the photographs  were almost absurd in their allusions to a cheap, dead, commercial  sexuality. The colour red is emphasised throughout the book as a symbol of  wanton eroticism and nearly all of the models are shown with nipples  completely  erect as though they were well on their way to climax already  --  these ladies have no life and no purpose apart from their sexual uses  and sexuality; there is just nothing else there. The women here are dead  objects of lust, not real people; they are machines, not humans. A cheap  attempt to capitalise on his previous book's success by objectifying  &quot;exotic&quot; women. Also, &quot;asian&quot; in this collection means  solely &quot;mongoloid&quot; and does not, for some reason, apply to  mid-eastern, Indic, or any other ethnicity  other than that of the  Chinese-Japanese type (possibly because they have not traditional been  objects of the western objectification as  much as the &quot;Madama  Butterfly's&quot; have). A big dissapointment --  Ommer could have done  much better.	2000-08-30
US	50717925	R2AVVVL5R4HMS1	3822880973	725669852	Black Ladies	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Photography As Poetry	The thing that makes this book so unique is the emphasis on the  counteneances of the models involved -- the face of each lady is given at  least as much emphasis as the rest of her body. This makes the photos seem  like pictures of individuals and not a mere cattle call like so many other  erotic/semi-erotic photo essays seem to degenerate into. The gaze that the  models wear is one of the most important components of the book. One  wonders what the individuals are thinking when looking at them, and the  gazes are such that they cannot be readily avoided. You will not find any  of those &quot;come get me&quot; looks common to the models in most men's  magazines which seem to portray the ladies as being halfway to orgasm. The  typical objectification of the female form so common in nude photos is  noticeably (and thankfully) absent here. Also the feeling that these models  are &quot;posing&quot; is usually absent (except in a few photos); they  seem to be caught in a natural setting and the nudity here seems as natural  as can  be (perhaps the ideal that nudists hope for) -- this is all a   tribute to Ommer's artistry. The photographs in this book are sometimes  slightly erotic, but the word that comes to my mind in describing them is  &quot;sensual&quot; -- the nudes are done tastefully, so one is not left  with the feeling that one is looking at some sort of disguised soft porn --  the models seem perfectly comfortable and natural and do not seem to be  ashamed of their bodies, but one is not given the sense that they are  flaunting them either. Sexuality is not ignored, but is not brazen . . . it  is incorporated into the general poise of the individual concerned . . .  not being the sole or most important thing, but not submerged and hidden in  shame or coyness either. There are no pictures that depict the ladies here  in degrading acts or in &quot;exposed&quot; fashion -- the genitals are  never exposed and the  nudes do not seem violated in any way by the  interest of the  onlooker -- they retain their dignity and humanity  throughout the book. This is one of the closest attempts to put poetry to  colour in the form of photographs. The one big minus here is that the  ladies all seem to a certain degree to be exeplifiers of the traditional  European beauty ethic . . . whereas all the ladies here are  &quot;black&quot;, and naturally most have the typical Africanesque  features . . . prominent lips, wide nasal ridge, and so on . . . all of  them are relatively thin. This is unfortunate, because there are parts of  Africa in which very large women are considered very erotic . . . much more  so than those with very thin and petite body types. Also, all of the ladies  featured in this book seem to be under 35 or so, even though it is well  known that older women can also be very beautiful, especially considering  the fact that the countenances play such an important role in this book.  Not perfect, but very close.	2000-08-10
US	50717925	R2MFV1G3R38IOE	0060923717	67842895	Love in Black and White: The Triumph of Love over Prejudice and Taboo	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Beautiful Story	The story of a white lady who marries a black South African immigrant, this story is a very genuine, heartfelt account of two people from two different cultures who cross the race line and despite all the odds against  them, have a very loving and successful marriage. Everyday trials are  emphasised as well as the cultural problems, &quot;going public&quot;,  reactions from black women, and so on. Each chapter has two parts: Gail's  point of view and Mark's point of view. It is a very interesting book not  only for mixed-ethnicity marriages, but for everyone else as well. Highly  recommended.	2000-07-31
US	50717925	R35TYB9OTW5FPZ	0890876533	215445663	On Life after Death	Books	2	40	76	N	N	Close, But No Cigar	In this extremely brief book consisting of four separate essays, Kubler-Ross talks about her meeting with a deceased person (this almost made me put the book down thinking that she was nuts! ), the process of  grieving over parents, personal growth and her own mystical experience and  near death experience. The book is interesting, but suffers from an extreme  bias. It is not dispassionate at all and she seems to wish to push her  opinions on others. She claims to have collected over 20,000 NDE reports,  but all of her evidence is anecdotal and cannot be backed up. Still, she  insists that &quot;there is no death&quot; and uses this as part of her  life's philosophy. She may have greater justification than other people for  this, but I can't help but thinking that her arguments are a bit weak. The  most interesting part of the book was her account of some very odd  experiences which she herself had. A nice addition to the literature of  near death studies, but I was not much impressed.	2000-07-31
US	50717925	R1NTYSYMDVXFEA	1558491015	247855436	Of Many Colors: Portraits of Multiracial Families	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Beautiful Photographs	This is a beautiful collection of photographs of multiracial families of every ilk and shade. Each chapter is devoted to one family and each member gets a little space to say what they feel about being in a multiracial  family. As one would expect, there are virtually no negative comments about  it, but all seem to have been made better, even more completer people by  the experience, and above all they tend to see themselves as members of a  human family as opposed to members of one &quot;race&quot; or ethnic  background. The children seem less confused than most of the rest of us. A  wonderful book. I only give it four stars because for all it's beauty, it  does not get into much depth (although that is inevitable in any photo  essay). Still, a heartwarming collection of photographs and shared  experiences.	2000-07-31
US	50717925	R1VI92YIRBQ3W7	1566563038	799142233	Unequal Conflict: The Palestinians & Israel	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Decent Analysis	An excellent intorduction to the politics surrounding the problem of Palestine vs. Israel, this book is very straightforward and easy to read, profusely annotated and suffers from few biases. The author obviously leans  much more towards the Palestinian side, but does not treat the Israeli side  unfarily. He goes to pains to show how the conflict in the Middle East is  not due to &quot;age old struggles&quot; as so many people have it, but are  a direct resault of 19th and 20th century plotics. Zionism is painted as an  oppressive colonial force, and the Palestinians are seen as the underdogs .  . . whether this is due to bias as opposed to reality I doubt. He does not  really empahsise the rolls of religions in the conflict, but of land  ownership and goes a long way to dispelling popular myths about this  conflict in Palestine. A very interesting book.	2000-07-31
US	50717925	RBXL7KFLQ9GF6	0553278134	60624079	The Light Beyond	Books	4	26	27	N	N	More Speculative Than His Previous Books	This book is more speculative than Moody's previous books, but I enjoyed it much more than them perhaps because of that reason. There is little that is new in this book, although he does discusee some additional topics. For  example, he defends NDE research as valid against certain critics. he  refutes quite easilt Carl Sagan's absurd attempt to related NDE's as  engrams from the birth experience and demonstrates that there are no known  psychoactive drugs that produce similar symptoms to NDE's in subjects (he  places particular emphasis on ketamine for some reason). It makes a good  companion to the other books, and I found ot to be more interesting, but it  is hard to know what else one has to say after the first two books. Many  people seem to have NDE's, and they are hard, if not impossible to explain  away using traditional understandings of the world, but what else is there  to be said? Interesting book, but I am not sure how much farther near death  studies can be taken . . .	2000-07-31
US	50717925	R2590HUZAKPXC6	0844204242	688924551	A Popular Dictionary of Sikhism	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Excellent Introduction to Sikhism	This dictionary contains most of the terms that are related to Sikhism. Although not really an introductory course, by reading the definitions of so many words in the Sikh vocabulary, one gets an idea of what the religion  is all about, including its relation to Islam and Hinduism, the two related  faiths of India. The book lists the major figures in Sikhism, an outline of  the history of the religion, a list of the sacred books, theology and a  general overview of the philosophy, both in the introduction and in the  definitions itself. A great aid for those interested in the faith.	2000-07-25
US	50717925	R25UTM7596D8QU	9993887862	523106475	Reflections on Life After Life	Books	3	16	18	N	N	Interesting	This book, the sequel to &quot;Life After Life&quot; is somewhat smaller than the previous book, and contains some interesting observations gleaned from the anecdotal evidence of those who came near to death and survived.  Moody talks of the elements of the NDE that fewer people have: seeing the  realm of &quot;bewildered spirits&quot; (ghosts), Cities of Light,  dopplegangers, and so on. He goes on to speculate of the experiences of  suicides, most of whom (in Moody's study) seem to have only partial NDE's.  Also discussed are various reactions to his studies, including reactions  from the ministry (not all of which were favourable). He includes,  interestingly, accounts of certain people who were in dangerous situations,  but not actually physically harmed (may provide some indight into what  precipitates the NDE). Rather than being primarily speculative in tone, he  seems to be mainly creating a roster of things that his subjects have  reported to him, which gives the account a feel of objectivity, but he also  uses some more personal observations later on in the book. This makes a  good supplement to his previous book, but is a little dull because of the  way in which it is organised. Interesting, but still all evidence is  anecdotal. Little attempt at verification has been exercised (this may have  not been the author's intention anyway), so one is left with the idea that  maybe the whole experience may be generated by the mind rather than  filtered through it. not a bad effort, but could be better.	2000-07-20
US	50717925	R3IJ9JQQN3VZSX	0345313860	630892090	The Vampire Lestat (Vampire Chronicles, Book II)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Rice Should Have Started Clean	There are certain problems with this book. I loved the first novel in this series, &quot;Interview With The Vampire&quot;, but Rice made a mistake I think, in making this book a continuation of her previous one. I think it  would have been a much, much better book if she had started clean. For  example, a great deal of what one had to believe about Louis and Lestat in  the first book had to be not only suspended, but actually reversed in this  one for the story to make any sense. In &quot;Interview&quot; Lestat is  portrayed as a childish, vengeful, sadistic man with no feeling or depth  whatsoever. Here he is shown as the &quot;vampire's vampire&quot; -- a man  of unusual depth (which unfortunately doesn't stop his constant immaturity  from getting the better of him), and Louis is shown to be a weak,  vacillating, pathrtic creature -- far removed from the tragic figure that  he was in the first novel. The series sort of loses its integrity after  this. Also, many of the characterisations are hard to believe . . . Lestat  (pre-vampiric) and his friend get drunk and spend the night in some sort of  existential angst moaning about philosophy. Trust me, this is NOT what  drunk teenage males think of! The vampire is also nearly elevated to the  status of a god, being able to fly and being virtually indestructable, but  still beins concerned with the pettiest of human problems. Lestat simply  seems to waste his immortality. The invulnerability of the characters makes  all of the shenannigans that they go through seem rather pointless. Instead  of using his dark gift to elevate himself and understand life, Lestat  prefers to waste his time in childish pursuits that are curiously  pointless. So why the four stars? Well, Rice IS an excellent writer. The  book does captivate one and draws a person into the drama. She writes with  a lushness that any romantic writer would envy. The story is great, but the  near hero-worship of Lestat seems absurd, and the inconsistencies withthe  first novel really did take away from the book's value.	2000-07-13
US	50717925	R1K7XVE7CG7PBL	0060809248	591439555	The Phantom of the Opera: The Original Novel	Books	2	1	9	N	N	Yawn	If you're looking for something special, keep looking, because you won't find it here. I suppose most people come to this book nowadays with Michael Crawford, Lon Chaney or Claude Rains in mind, the but story here is  completely different. What it is is a fairly dull detective story, with no  love story in it at all, and flatly unconvincing characters and a highly  improbable plot. If you love the Lloyd-Weber opera like I do, don't expect  to find anything sublte or beautiful here. This is one of the few cases  when the films and musicals FAR outdo the original that they were based on.	2000-07-13
US	50717925	R3RI63AF5BC2ZB	0878881549	53481108	The Islamic Space	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Great Read, But Not Very Accurate	This is a great book, if you are interested in self-enlightenment -- if you are searching to find out what life is all about and are interested in exploring the various traditions (in this case, the Islamic tradition), but  it does not give one a very good idea of what Islam is all about. Of all  the faiths of the world, Al-Islam is among the most dogmatic and  narrow-minded in character. The text that Corlett uses exclusively in his  interpretation of the Islamic tradition is the &quot;Conference of the  Birds&quot;, a Sufi text that most Mohammedans are unaware of. This is in  keeping with the author's approach of using the more mystical  interpretations of each and every major religion (this book is the last in  a series of six such books), but also puts one at a distance form the faith  and practice of most Moslems, and completely ignores nearly all of the  commonly-held tenets and ignores the Al-Qur'an as well! So, if you pick up  this book with the intention of learning anything new about Islam, you will  be sorely dissapointed. The author seems to have no interest whatsoever in  exploring the religion as it is understood by most of the Mussselmen in the  world. many of the things he suggests will be considered heretical by the  vast majority of Muslims, and the overall approach seems to be more in  keeping with Vedanta. Still, since it is obviously not the author's purpose  to explore the cultural fact of Islam, or any other religion, but to get to  the gist of existence -- to explore the religions and ideas that casued all  religions to come into being in the first place. If these are the questions  that interest you, then this is one of the best books to read. Like the  author says in the introduction, the book does not attempt to come to a  definite conclusion or to be dogmatic or final in any way. It is just a  guide of self-exploration that may allow one to get something of the wisdom  from various of the world's major faiths, in this case, Islam. The words  and style that the author's use gets a bit old if you read all of the books  in the series . . . it can get a bit repetitive after a while and there  seems to me more verbiage than is necessary . . . large parts of the book  don't really say much. If you want a good idea of what Islam, as it is  commonly practiced is all about, however, look elsewhere.	2000-07-10
US	50717925	R2Y4GMOATZYXOO	0679417362	103102911	The Koran (Everyman's Library)	Books	2	47	80	N	N	A Dissapointment	I was very much dissapointed by the Koran. I had heard much about it and as one of the most important religious scriptures of the world, I decided that it was something that I should read first-hand. Since I don't know  classical Arabic, I thought the best that I could do was to get a  translation made by a practicing Muslim, rather than a scholar who would  (perhaps unintentionally) distort the faith or give only an academician's  point of view. most of what I have heard about Islam was very negative and  so I tried to keep an open mind while reading this book. Still, I was much  disappointed. I found the book to have very little subtlety in it. It seems  to be a very simple, direct, tribal-oriented tome that will undobubtedly  aid one in understanding Arabian culture to a substantial degree, but which  all the same, will probably do little to help anyone understand life or  their place in it. It has often been said that when Christianity and Islam  encounter one another, the majority of the people tend to gravitate toward  Islam. I can see why this is true -- the theology is much simpler than the  muddled trinitarianism of the Bible and the means of expression is much  more direct and less confusing than the Hebrew writings, but even so, this  book seems to show the route to a completely external faith -- one where  obedience and submission is much more imprortant than understanding. The  morality that the book encourages was an improvement over the traditional  Arabian morality (pre-Muslim era), but it is abysmal for a modern human  being. Although Islam raised the status of women when it was first  conceived of by Mohammed, a following of this book today gives one an  excuse for discrimination and even violence. I once thought that the talk  of jihad was all just anti-Muslim propaganda, but this book seems much like  the Bible in that it shows a petty, vengeful little god who rather than  uplifiting humanity, simply keeps it down in a deep ravine. If you have anopen mind, Islam as Pickthall conceives it is not for you. The  &quot;Conference of the Birds&quot; is a much better treatise in every way.	2000-07-06
US	50717925	R1H48Y3COQEBS4	0966383125	545826986	Hindi Primer Part 1	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Dr. Khare Does It Again!	One of the biggest plusses of this book are the instructions on how to form the syllables of the devanagari alphabet. All other books might show you how to read the syllabary, but this is the only one that I have  encountered that shows one exactly how to form the letters. The grammar  lessons expnad upon those in Dr. Khareji's previous book and provide a  wealth of information for anyone learning Hindi. Since this book was  intended specifically for native English-speakers, the approach that she  takes is particularly effective. Makes a great supporting grammar text for  any Hindi textbook.	2000-07-05
US	50717925	R2RMEOL8KIGQ7I	0345360001	128741164	The Mummy or Ramses the Damned	Books	3	2	3	N	N	More Romance Than Horror	This book is really something of a romance novel -- it is definitely not horror. An amusing tale that shows Rice's writing at it's best and most sensual, the story is set in Egypt and centers around a man (the mummy) who  has tasted the elixir of life -- a draught which although making one  immortal, dooms one to perennial frustration, as one's desires can never be  sated. As an adventure and romance book, it is excellent, but do not be  fooled by the title -- there is nothing here that is really dark or  unpleasant, but it still makes for a wonderful way to kill a weekend.	2000-06-29
US	50717925	R146HW0YJOJ9A0	0316769509	595009960	Nine Stories	Books	1	5	40	N	N	Yuk, Yuk and Double Yuk	I absolutely detested all of the stories in this volume! All of them were dreary and gloomy for no particular reason, and after I finished each one, I was still at a loss at to what Salinger was trying to tell me. He gives  no reason for his extreme pessimism but simply paints everyone and  everything in a very negative light. Salinger is a powerful writer, but  compared to the Catcher In The Rye, this book is just garbage.	2000-06-29
US	50717925	R17VQOUGZPBIDZ	0553279378	146946583	I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings	Books	2	12	24	N	N	OK, But Nothing Special	My high-school English teacher had this on her list of required reading for her senior class, and as a result, I didn't read it until after I had graduated from college. On the whole, I found it a rather dull book.  Angelou goes into detail about what it was like for a young black girl to  grow up in the United States in the 40's. As you can imagine, it wasn't  really very pretty. She mentions about how she very eagerly lost her  virginity, was molested by her mother's boyfriend, he relationship with her  brother and so on. The most impressive part of the book was when she stood  up for herself in order to get her first job -- the book is almost worth  reading just for those few pages. But for the most part, I just couldn't  get interested in it. I found it rather dull.	2000-06-29
US	50717925	R3JWSVPJ4S3V05	0844226750	357439750	Gulf Arabic (Teach Yourself) (English and Arabic Edition)	Books	3	18	18	N	N	Good Introduction	This is a good introduction to spoken arabic. As the title suggests, the focus is on the dialects of arabic spoken near the Persian Gulf. Very little attention is payed to the script; the emphasis is on conversational  speech. This is not the book to read if you want to be able to read the  Q'uran or other classical arabic texts. it is primarily a course in spoken  arabic, and to that end, it does the job well, although if the book came  with a casette tape, it would have been a much greater help. Arabic is a  difficult language for a native English speaker, but learning basic  colloquial arabic is not really that bad, but due to the odd guturral  sounds used, a tape with native speakers on it is indispensible.	2000-06-29
US	50717925	R2L9X4AS6M0E8X	0782123465	729049775	A+ Exam Notes: Dos/Windows,1998 publication	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Good Info, But . . .	This book has some great material in it, but it is rather annoying that every Sybex Study Guide always leaves some material out so that you'll have to buy the Exam Notes books as well. There is material in here that you  won'tfind in the Study Guide, but which should have been included in it. So  to get all the information, you'll need BOTH books. But as far as it goes,  the book is pretty decent. Should not be used by itself to prepare for the  exam -- it is a review tool, and does not contain enough information to  stand on its own.	2000-06-29
US	50717925	R275ACKXYTUN1K	0451180747	353430302	The Burglar in the Closet: A Bernie Rhodenbarr Mystery	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Amusing Enough	I was recommended this book by a friend and I was pleasantly pleased by it, although not unduly impressed. the stories about a burglar who plays detective is rather improbable, but a fairly effective technique for  solving goo old-fashioned mysteries. It won't knock the masters of the  genre out of their places, but it's a great book for mystery fans. Funny  too.	2000-06-29
US	50717925	R3W130MX8NVAG2	0071342168	688374872	A+ Certification DOS/Windows (Accelerated A+ Certification Study Guide)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Great Guide But A Repeat Of Meyers' Other Book	This is an excellent guide if you want to pass the A+ DOS/Windows exam, but it is basically just the DOS/Windows' chapters excerpted from Meyers' &quot;All-in-One A+ Certification Guide&quot;, so if you have the one, you  won't need the other. personally, I recommend the All-in-One book as it  contains all the information needed to pass bothe Core and DOS/Windows  exams. This book also contains no practice questions, which is a big minus.  Still, Meyers' explains things so well, that you are bound to pass the exam  with this book. As usual, he goes into much more detail than you will  actually need for the exam, but it does often come in handy.	2000-06-29
US	50717925	R22RKOL6QGPSDM	1565546873	63234215	Maverick Guide to Oman (Maverick Guide Series)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	This Is THE Guide To Oman	The best (and one of the only) guides to a very pleasant and seldom-mentioned country, Ochs has done a wonderful job of giving us a very interesting intorduction to the culture, langiage, history, religion, cuisine, customs, geology and attractions of the safest and most attractive of the Arabian countries. Included is a wealth of information that every traveller will need to know before embarking on their trip. Also are hundreds of restaurants and sundry attractions for every taste and inclination. The rules and regulations are delineated carefully so as to prevent mishaps and fortunately, Ochs has provided for his readers, not merely the &quot;tourist&quot; side of Oman, but many facets of this beautiful and fascinating country that are generally overlooked by the typical sightseer. if you plan on visiting Oman, or just want information about the people or the land, this is the book to get.	2000-06-27
US	50717925	R13WB4TS45MTAY	0966914937	461325839	The Art of Sensual Massage	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Inkeles At His Best	This is one of the better massage manuals that I have been fortunate enough to get hold of. While not quite equal to the author's &quot;The New Sensual Massage&quot;, it is nevertheless an important addition to any  amateur masseuse's library. The massage type that this book primarily deals  with is SENSUAL massage -- a type massage that concentrates on relaxing the  body and releiving tensions (excellent fot hose of us who work in  high-stress jobs, by the way) -- NOT erotic or therapeutic massage. Erotic  massage is touched on, albeit very briefly, but the focus of the book is on  relaxing sensual massage. The reading style is quick and easy, and the  photographs (explicit, but tasteful) aid one in doing the exercises. This  is really an exquisite feast for the senses!	2000-06-14
US	50717925	R1BG5Y51O6SKLN	0394862147	575091333	The Doctor Who Technical Manual	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Great For Whovians	A great set of details of the props used on the show, including several of the weapons, the TARDIS, and so on. Espcially amusing for children.	2000-06-14
US	50717925	R1DLGTAN7H91WN	0070178976	927558201	Schaum's Outline of Partial Differential Equations (Schaum's)	Books	2	19	21	N	N	Know Your Fourier Series	Before you even think about opening this book, be sure that you know your Forurier series. The book uses that to solve most of the problems. Also, it is really not for those new to PDE. May be a good text for graduate  students, but will confise the non-specialist. Not a good introductory  text.	2000-06-13
US	50717925	RJY8UZX0YRT54	0380751925	313724542	The Necronomicon	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Essay Was The Best Part	It looks like HPL has become a wholesale hoaxer of modern-day Satanists everywhere! If you're in doubt, please read &quot;Lovecraft At Last&quot; by Willis Conover. In that book, Lovecraft admits to one of his  correspondents that the Necronomicon was a made-up book. Still, Lovecraft's  fiction was so powerful that they were able to conjure a non-existent book  into existence! The seals and sigils and spells in the book are rather  comical to anyone who knows much of the history of magic in the west, but  the essay at the beginning of the book is rather interesting, though  unconvincing. the author tries to relate ancient Sumer with Aleister  Crowley with H.P. Lovecraft. I think it is this introductory essay which  has given the book so much of it's appeal. Anyway, of you are a fan of  Lovecraft's prose, as I am, then this might be an amusing way to kill a few  hours.	2000-06-12
US	50717925	R9945JADZP9FP	0586043918	837447763	Ritual In The Dark	Books	3	13	17	N	N	Interesting, But A Bit Weak	This was Wilson's first novel, written when he was 17 years old, although not pulished until after his initial success with &quot;The Outsider&quot; seven years later. It contains in embryo all of the themes that Wilson was  concerned with throughout his long and very productiove career . . . the  paranormal, psychology, the &quot;narrowness of consciousness&quot;, peak  experiences, murder, and so on. The gist of the book is Wilson's casting of  three primary characters as different sorts of &quot;outsiders&quot;: the  physical, represented by the killer (based on Nijinsky), the intellectual  (based on himself) amd the emotional (based on Van Gogh). None of the three  characters seem to be able to find any sort of place in the world where  they really belong. They sense that the world that they have are living in  is largely false, but see no clear way to get out of their dilemma. The  faults of the book are many. For one thing, the book was a vehicle for  Wilson's ideas and so rather than focusing on the plot or the characters,  he focuses on the ideas, cramming long philosophical discourses which  rather fracture the story up a bit. His philosophy is also a bit juvenile  here, although I suppose that is to be expected from a 17 year old. The  main character often seems to ba far too intellectual, and as this is only  a slightly disguised portrait of Wilson himself, he seems to be so  enchanted with his own mental abilities that he seems to mistake his ideas  for reality. For example, he has no problems whatsoever attempting to free  a murderer from the police, because as Wilson sees it, murder is just a  metaphor for the killers dissatisfaction with society. The killer  &quot;feels&quot;taken advantage of, thus he shows his resentment by  butchering people, and this seems to be condoned. No thought whatsoever is  given to the person who lies dead at the hands of a monster who decided to  take their life to fulfil his own sense of inferiority. Wilson also seems  to have no understanding of the criminal mind whatsoever -- sex murderers  generally do not kill their victims as a means of social protest, but  because they have a deep sense of hatred towards other people. And in  general homosexual sex murderers do not kill females, which gives the story  an even more absurd twist. A good read, but a vastly inferior work to  Wilson's later philosophical essays.	2000-06-12
US	50717925	R1AMCYHOXYYKDI	0471154962	527866008	Advanced Engineering Mathematics, 8th Edition	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Great For Basics	This book tries to do it all, which is impossible. It covers the basics of a wide, wide variety of engineering problems, including ordinary and partial differential equations, Fourier series, differnetial forms, graph  theory, linear algebra, complex variables, probablilty and statistics,  vector calculus, numerical and computer methods and so on, and is  undoubtedly the best book if you want a wide overview of the problems with  less attention paid to theory and much attention paid to problem-solving  techniques, but there is so much to cover, that there is not really any  roomm left for really advanced topics. Tensors are not even mentioned as  are topics in variational calculus, and the discrete math and numerical  methods chapters are barely touched upon at all in much depth. So if you  want a sophmore-junior level enginerring text, this makes for a great  textbook and general reference book, but should not really be considered an  &quot;advanced&quot; text. Great for up and coming engineers, but is not  enough by itself.	2000-06-12
US	50717925	R1CXDZWN87ZK5O	0922915113	195597826	The Devil's Notebook	Books	2	18	31	N	N	Has Moments.	This book is not LaVey's best. The best thing about it is the humour that LaVey manages to weave into his writing -- at times it can get a bit childish, but at it's best, the irreverance can be quite amusing.  Unfortunately, it doesn't really reddem the book, as it seems quite obvious  that he has nothing to say here. LaVey seems much bitterer and full of  himself in a rather narcissistic way than he was earlier in his life and  this lack of perspective makes him seem sort of absurd. In this collection  of essays, LaVey is indulging himself -- but it is largely the indulgence  of a two year old throwing a temper tantrum rather than the indulgence of  the artist, which was the ideal that he had in mind when he wrote the  Satanic Bible. There are essays about playing dumb jokes on people, on how  much he hates everyone, and so on. But there are some gems here. His  aphorisms are worse than useless, but ideas of the &quot;Law of the  Trapezoid&quot; are interesting, as are his sharing of his musical tastes  with everyone (and rather good taste it is!). He shares his interest of the  odd and unusual, inlcuding several little-known but interesting people and  the rip-roaring humour of &quot;Hatha Toilet Seat meditation&quot;. Still,  these little snippets are not quite enough to redeem this volume and the  foreward by Kenneth Anger certainly adds nothing to the book (he mentions  that lamentable fact that the popular media had chosen to ignore LaVey --  but does not mention that LaVey has plagiarised so much of his  &quot;work&quot; that he has got basically what he deserved). The sheet  music for the &quot;Battle Hymn of the Republic&quot; is included, as well  as various original musings which really aren't worth anyone's time except  for the most enthusiastic LaVey worshipper. If your library has it, it  might be worth a read, but it's not worth the price. If you want laVey at  the height of his powers, check out the Satanic Bible; this is just the  rantings of a bitter old man.	2000-06-12
US	50717925	R14C4Z1WMCFAAT	0520037804	616532871	The Devil's Race-Track: Mark Twain's Great Dark Writings: The Best from Which Was the Dream? and Fables of Man	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Not That Bad	But not that good either. This book contains writings that were all attempted after Mark Twain was over 70 years old and after his daughter had died. The majority of the book is composed of incomplete manuscripts, some  of which are highly amusing. Most of the stories here start out the same  way . . . he tries to get a story going which is gloomy, defeatest, and  which ends in disaster. But Twain's natural sense of vigour always gets in  the way and st a critical point, the stories tend to take a different turn  than he had intended, thus he abaondons them. There are some interesting  stories here. One of them includes the story of a slave who, through craft,  turns the tables on his white master (named George Harrison, oddly enough!)  and enslaves him, which is a rather interesting thought for those modern  critics who continually chastise Twain as a racist. A few polemical pieces  are included which are bound to irritate the Christians -- not all of these  are gloomy, however, as the editor seems to think Twain intended them -- he  obviously enjoys his heretical antics a great deal. Although this  collection did not really impress me that much, there are several pices of  writing here in which Twain shines like he has in few other works. A social  statement on the Natie Americans and on growing old are also included.  Although not for everybody, fans of Samuel Clemens will find this book a  rare treat.	2000-06-12
US	50717925	RV05F1B9ZDEOB	0061008893	286744086	Saved by the Light	Books	3	37	41	N	N	Interesting But Not Convincing	The one thing that was especially interesting about this book was that the man who claims to have suffered through two near death experiences (the first due to a lighting strike and second due to heart failure) was never a  particularly religious man -- in fact one might say that he was smoething  of an atheist. This makes it somewhat easier to believe that he was not  maing up his story as the result of his own previously-held religious  ideas. Also, the author claims to have been quite a bda person --  supposedly a bloke who served as an assassin in Laos during the Vietnam War  and someone who was constantly getting into fights (although the number he  gives -- about 6000 fistfights in 7 years -- seems rather improbable) and  in general never gave an ounce of consideration to anyone other than  himself. His NDE was unusually detailed. The one thing seen here that is  usually not reported in other NDE accounts was his being allowed to see 117  events in &quot;heaven&quot; which had not taken place yet. Oddly enough,  the author says that 95 of these precognitive events had already taken  place, but the examples that he gave in the book were mostly those that  didn't develop (such as the economic ruin of the U.S. by the year 2000 and  the earthquakes that were to destroy America or the computer chips (the  &quot;mark of the beat&quot; according to Lindsey) that we were all  supposed to have inserted underneath our skin by now, for example). This  causes one to doubt what he says he experienced as something other than his  imagination. he goes on to say how he was instructed by the spirits to  build &quot;centers&quot; of relaxation for the people of the earth (which  sounds strangely reminiscent of some UFO abduction stories) and after  coming back to earth, that he continued to recieve instruction from the  spirits in his dreams. Also, he claims to have been made powerfully psychic  by the NDE that he experienced, something which although it may be true,  makes hisaccount harder to believe (especially when added to all the other  far-fetched aspects of his NDE). This makes for an interesting read for  anybody who is intrigued by near-death studies, but it still poses a number  of problems that other reports do not (such as the spirits being so clearly  wrong about so many things). All in all, interesting, but not convincing.	2000-06-12
US	50717925	RWGNRU5RHK7LP	0380015390	52596332	The Satanic Bible	Books	3	17	29	N	N	Too Easy To Misunderstand	After reading this book, I was rather in a mixed state of feelings with regards to LaVey. The book at once is unscholarly, almost crude in many places, but the author's integrity comes through quite clearly. I was  surprised at how moderate most of LaVey's views were, considering what one  most likely expects to get based upon the title. LaVey values honesty and  sincerity a great deal, and his innate sense of value in being human is  all-too apparent. He disregards all traditional religious activity as  mainly sanctimonious and intentional fraud, while allowing that a  considerable portion is hypocritical self-deceit rather than an intentional  attempt to generate revenue at the expense of the grief of others. While it  is readily apparent that laVey knows little or nothing about the natures of  the religions which he criticises -- he seems to regard all religion as  moronic and as shallow as your typical Sunday morning TV evangelists seem  to reduce all religious belief to -- while being completely ignorant of any  of the higher aspects of most religions (which, admittedly, rarely  infiltrate the popular mind). he never delves very deeply into anything he  addresses in this volume, but tends only to look at the surface, and even  then, he looks only at those things which seem to be obvious to him, but  ignores anything he does not understand. If he had spent more time reading  of Gandhi or Merton, the mystics or anyone of a very large variety of  religious experience and belief, he may have not come to such shallow  conclusions -- it is one thing to reject what is boviously false or  detrimental, quite another to dismiss in toto what he does not have enough  interest about to delve too deeply and to get at the possible reality  behind religious ideas. This gives LaVey a sort of &quot;elitist&quot;  point of view which mars the work as a whole, because he obviously is out  of his league when attempting to do any sort of genuine philosophy (and  such &quot;elitism&quot;, I might add, does nothing but bring hom closer to  the attitudes of the narrow-minded religionists whom he dismisses so  readily). Also, his elitist point of view is all the more absurd when the  majority of his book is nothing more than a sort of &quot;dumbed down&quot;  version of Nietzsche's philosophy. One wonders whether LaVey is critical  enough to be aware of the cultural influences which he seems to have  accepted (Nietzsche, Hume, Locke, Hobbes -- everything that he says has  been said better by those before him; he stills seems to think he is the  originator of these ideas rather than one who merely picked up on the  sceptical currents in western philosophy that have been popular for the  last three hundred years). If the book was really intended for such  &quot;elitists&quot;, one wonders why LaVey didn't refer them to the  original philosophers rather than giving the public a bastardised and  vastly inferior version. Still, despite the plagiarism and endless  philosophicl problems that the text presents, LaVey does believe strongly  in what he says. Namely, that as their seems to be no real god that exists,  that human beings have the awesome task of becoming the closest thing to a  god that can be acheived in a solely materialistic world. Heaven and Hell  are reagrded as fictions from a more dishonest, simpler age and are now  taken as merely states of mind. The one commandment is common sense and the  ideal philosophy is one of rational self-interest -- in other words,  humanism. LaVey's assessment of humanity is not very noble, but at least he  does his utmost to see us as he thinks we really are and not to believe in  pleasing lies just because they are pleasing -- in other words, the truth  may hurt, but even then it is better than self-deception, and only then can  people begin to develop into all they are capable of. Responsibility to the  responsible is the order of the day -- but this still places those who have  ethics (and make no mistake about, the Satanic Bible DOES include a very  noble set of ehtical principles) at the mercy of thos who don't. LaVey gets  rid of all of the foolish demonisation of sexuality and self-interest which  has done nothing but hurt society as a whole, and rep;aces it with a very  practical code of ethics: be good to those who are good to you, if someone  hurts you, hurt them worse. Noble sentimensts are muddied with base ones,  and on the whole, the crude way LaVey tends to express himself will  probably cause this book to be mainly attractive to the people that LaVey  would least want to consider his compatriots. When he says that &quot;man  is a god&quot;, I don't think for a second that this means mean are already  gods and have no reason to advance themselves or to behave as decent human  beings (the previous reviews I think demonstrate the degree to which he was  misunderstood, with typcical evangelistic hatred and small-mindedness  predominating). All in all, it is a good try, but will almost certainly be  misunderstood by most people as giving a free excuse to those who are too  lazy or too stupid to try to better themselves or their world, and will be  ignored by those who LaVey most wants to reach. In short, stick to  Nietzsche or Hobbes if you want real philosophy and are interested in  learning how to make the most of life; stick to Ragnar Redbeard or Crowley  if you want to irritate everyone around you with your mindless arrogance  and stupidity.	2000-06-12
US	50717925	R17VU174G2NVLG	0811201880	942112163	Nausea (New Directions Paperbook)	Books	3	4	8	N	N	Should Hve Been Called &quot;Tedium&quot;	This book is Sartre's attempt to show that existence is absolutely disgusting, pointess, useless and so on. And it is also an absolute fake because the author behaves as though he believed nothing of which he was  writing. Sartre uses his protagonist, Antoine Roquentin, to sequentially  explore a variety of options that are traditionally have been thought to  give meaning to life, and he in turn, shows how shallow each and every one  of them are. Love, work, sex, etc. But this sort of novel is rather  troublesome -- one sort of knows that one is being hoodwinked the whole  time, that the author has an ax to grind and that the whole story was being  constructed in order to prove his point with literature. But we all know  that literature can be used to lend credence to one's own point of view  (whether correct or not) and does not necessarily tell one the way that  things really are. In that sense, this is an ideal sense of propaganda. If  Sartre really believed what he was writing, he would have committed suicide  rather than bothering to wrote a book. I mean, once the author comes to the  point where he discovers that life is pointless, it seems rather absurd to  say &quot;and to continue . . .&quot;. But this is not the case. There were  few philosophers more vigorous and productive than Sartre, so his very life  serves as an example of how his nihilism was contradictory. He repeatedly  fails to make use of Roquentin's experiences of &quot;adventure&quot; or  even anger. In other words, there are solutions that are inherent in the  situation, which Sartre repeatedly fails to make use of. He tries to  demonstrate the &quot;nothingness&quot; of human consciousness byt showing  how vacant people are when there is no other humans to serve as a stimulus  -- but all the time, the very act of writing the book gives lie to what he  was attempting to show! He shows quote clearly that his consciousness os  far from being as vacuous as he tries to show in his novel. Also, ifhe had  not erroneously reject Husserl's idea of the transcendence of the ego, he  would have at least had a more productive starting point from which to  build upon. Also, any form of meaning scheme's other than the &quot;here  and now&quot; are rejected out of hand. Any sort of Gestalt ideas are  rejected without so much as an attempt to reason why they might be false.  Also, the whole book seemed like just so much whining and self-pitying  tripe. Heidegger's notions such as &quot;authentic existence&quot; are  never made the slightest use of, although they provide more in the way of  solution that Sartre ever would (his communism seems a poor solution to any  sort of philosophical problems that he raised). The book was a good attmept  to justify a flawed philosophy, and the reading style is tedious at best.  Although barely a hundred pages long, it seems like three hundred because  all seems so dead in the book. Also, for those genuinely interested in  psychology, do recall that Sartre's experiment in taking mescalin was done  shortly before he wrote this book, and with Sartre's overall personality  type, the effects of the drug on him may have well resulted in the sort ot  meaning starvation and depression that Sartre seemd to have been suffereing  from at the time he wrote this book. Such reactions to the drug were not  that uncommon and may provide clues for future philsophers.	2000-06-12
US	50717925	R2KRIZLGQZRI9K	0385483503	95231687	Arranged Marriage: Stories	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Arranged Marriage?	I wonder about the title of this book . . . although some of the stories dealt with couples whose marriages had been arranged, in most of the stories, that did not seem to play a part at all. So the title was not  really appopriate. What also is slightly irritating is that Devakaruni  seems far more interested in preaching and getting on her soapbox than with  actually developing her characters and story. I got the feeling of reading  the same story over and over again, with only the names changed. She is  concerned with issues, and not so much with individuals. Thus her  characters seem dull and bland icons who are just there to prove whatever  Devakaruni's point might be in that particular story. In quite a few of the  stories, traditional Bangali attitudes and customs are criticised (by the  way, why are all the foreign words in Hindi and not Bangali, I wonder?), in  others (e.g., Doors), she shows the problems that can occur with  inter-cultural marriages; although there is always the ubiquitous  critiquing of the &quot;traditional ways&quot;  (not entirely without  casue) in the stories. Indians may well be able to realte to these stories  in a way that will allow them to rethink the less agreeable aspects of  their culture, and westerners may find interest in getting a glimpse at a  world that most were never aware of. But this still does not excuse the  fact that most of the protagonists in these stories seem to be rather  pathetic, uninteresting people. None of them seems to have the slightest  interest in anything other than what her man thinks of her or anything that  would cause her to reach out and touch a world that expands beyond her own  hearth. This makes the reader feel that she was really doing nothing more  than exhorting for social change and not really doing any serious  literature. Also, all of the stories had unhappy endings. Whereas this does  often occur in reality, the introduction of a single intelligent woman with  spirit, who is capableof finding a way around her problems, rather then  seeing herself as the victim of them, would be refreshing. Having so many  &quot;sob stories&quot; in one volume makes it seem like she is trying to  elicit pity rather than understanding from her readers. Taken one at a  time, they are not bad . . . taken one after the other, they can get  nauseating. A pretty good book, but could use many improvements.	2000-06-12
US	50717925	R2U1EGE1R1NG1G	0521343801	180472205	Cambridge Latin Course, Unit 4, 3rd Edition (North American Cambridge Latin Course)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Real Latin	This is the best book in the Cambridge series of Latin courses. It finally gets intoo actual Roman texts, including the epigrams of Catallus and some writings from Ovid. I found that the previous books in the Cambridge series  did not adequately prepare one for this book. Before you even think about  opening this book, you need to know your declensions like the back of your  hand! There is a great deal of poetry in this book, in fact, I would say  that the emphasis is on Latin verse rather than prose. And often the  adjective that modifies a particular noun is not even on the same line of  the poem and thus, to make any sense out of the verse whatspever, you NEED  to know your inflections, and the previous books in this series were not  that great at driving that home. You cannot get by with just vocabluary in  this book. But the texts that were chosen for the student to translate were  good, and were usually of considerable historical interest. Some were a bit  wordy, but that's often the way Roman writers composed. These pasages are  the real thing, not made-up dialogues created for pedagogical purposes, so  before you attempt it, be prepared. A big minus is that no composition  exercises were included, and I have found that once composition has been  mastered to even a small degree, the reading becomes much easier.	2000-06-09
US	50717925	RQGN8U2MGGSRX	0521343828	603063345	Cambridge Latin Course Unit 3 Student's book North American edition (North American Cambridge Latin Course)	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Not The Best Text	This is definitely not the best text for intermeditate Latin on the market. The first two books were very easy in comparison, but here is where you start getting to the gist of the language. The first two books in this  series leave on ill-prepared for dealing with the level of difficulty  presented in this book. The approach may be good to get someone interested  in Latin, but utlimately, it will leave you with only a very incomplete  grasp of the language. While rote memorisation is not much fun, one needs  to know a certain amount of detail about the language and one needs to  memorise lots and lots of stuff. The approach in the Cambridge series is to  sort of 'absorb&quot; the material as you go along. But it really doesn't  work that way. After you finish this book, you may well not know much more  than when you started. It may be okay for a pupil who needs credit for a  foreign language course, but is not really for the serious student.	2000-06-09
US	50717925	R3AQ3L1BV84FY8	078212173X	283860123	MCSE : TCP/IP for NT Server 4 Study Guide	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Not Enough	Not a bad try. If you want to pass Microsoft's TCP/IP for NT 4, you'll probably need more than this book alone. There wasn't enough information on subnetting, and the author seemed rather unfocused, but as an introductory  text to TCP/IP, it's not bad.	2000-06-09
US	50717925	R4JJY3MJ0A3IS	0060987014	718620342	Freedom in Exile: The Autobiography of The Dalai Lama	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Story Of An Amazing Man	I scarecely knew who the Dalai Lama was before I picked up this book. But after reading it, I am glad that I had something of a chance to hear what he had to say. He starts off talking of his boyhood, and how he was chosen  at the age of 6, to be his country's newest religious leader. The stories  of his early life in the monastery are very amusing, but one wonders  whether it is really a good idea to take someone so young into a monastery  before they have any idea of what they are getting into. Still, Llamo  Thondup seems to have done alright. He goes on to tell of how, at the age  of 15, the Chinese invaded Thibet and took over his homeland, leaving this  young adolescent as the sole leader, spiritual and political, of his entire  country in a time of war. Eventually, the problems stemming from the red  army's invasion of Thibet were so severe that a large portion of the  population were forced to flee for their lives to India, where Jawarhalal  Nehru, in an act unlike any other by anyone else in history, allowed over  one hundred thousand refugee Thibetans into an already densely populated  country and made provisions for the propagation of the Thibetan culture in  Sarnath, Dharamsala and other towns in northern India. What strikes me as  so odd is that Thondup does not seem to have the slightest measure of  hatred for the Chinese people and even manages to understand, or at least  try to understand, what caused them to such brutal actions. To do so must  require a substantial degree of self-mastery and understanding, and in a  way, shows Thondup as not merely a puppet &quot;leader&quot; of his people,  but as someone who takes his faith very seriously indeed. His struggles to  preserve the culture of his homeland and the care which he has for his  people are genuinely touching. He also briefly mentions his meeting with  Trappist Thomas Merton, ans tells of some of the things which they  discussed in their short meeting before Merton's death in Bangkok in 1968.And also fairly briefly, he goes on to discuss Thibetan Buddhism in  general, including the belief in oracles, gods and demons, astrology,  reincarnation and so on. One might wish that he would take a stronger stand  against the superstition and hyposrisy often found in Thibet's own peculiar  type of Buddhism in addition to what he has already done for his people,  but he may think that such ideas may be necessary elements in the  preserving of Thibetan culture and may be the duty of a future incarnation  of the Dalai Lama. Still, as he mentions in his conversation with Carl  Sagan, he is not a blind believer in tradition, but has experienced doubts  himself and is in favour of abandoning those aspects of the religion which  can be shown to be erroneous (a welcome change from the stasis necessary in  contemporary Christian or Muslim thought). A very moving and captivating  biography of a very interesting man and one of the worst atrocities of our  time.	2000-06-09
US	50717925	R1QMX04ADAQE94	0521343798	338511392	Cambridge Latin Course Unit 1 Student's book North American edition (North American Cambridge Latin Course)	Books	3	31	33	N	N	Easy, But Leave One Ill Prepared	This was one of the texts that were used in my freshman Latin courses at college. I found the first book to be very easy, almost ridiculously so, but appropriate for beginners of any age. There is little emphasis on  grammar, with vocabulary and intuitive understanding of the language given  greater importance. This makes the course move along more quickly and makes  it much more fun, but it caused me problems later on when I began to move  to advanced Latin. This book makes the Latin language look quite easy, and  it ISN'T!  The five declensions are really not covered in nearly enough  detail and the lack of emphasis on grammar makes future Latin courses much  more difficult than they would if one started out with a more soild  introduction. Fun, easy, but it doesn't prepare one well for additional  study. The skits were quite amusing, however, and a great deal of  information of Roman culture was included. Might be better for elementary  school students ot those who have no experience at reading classical Latin  rather than college students or those who have had such courses in  elementary or high school.	2000-06-09
US	50717925	R1O7LZEOK6TTSZ	0345389425	772509401	Violin	Books	1	0	1	N	N	Save Your Money	I have always enjoyed Rice's work in the past, but I couldn't relate at all to this novel. The majority of the book seems to be taken up with a ghost arguing with a grouchy lady. To summarise, the most inghostly ghost  that I have ever read about decides to haunt a middle aged lady in order to  drive her insane (yawn). This lady has always loved classical music and  wanted to be able to play well, but was too lazy to keep practicing (she  seems to have been in the habit of giving up on things halfway). She starts  arguing woth the ghost and eventually steals his violin. This violin  magically allows her to play anything that she so desires (keep in mind the  ghost was a student of Mozart, Beethoven and almost a student of Paganini).  She becomes a world famous violinist, the ghost gets back his violin and  goes to heaven. End of story. The writing, as is usual of Rice, is  haunting, but the story is absurd. What possessed Rice to publish such a  fatuous piece of work, I'll never know. Let's hope her next effort is  better than this.	2000-06-09
US	50717925	R3PMVKT7S5DLPG	0486659429	814849554	An Introduction to Ordinary Differential Equations (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	4	52	52	N	N	One of the Better ODE Texts	This book was used in my &quot;Introduction to Ordinary Differential Equations&quot; class when I was a senior at Louisiana State. I found it to be one of the better texts in differential equations that I have come  across. The first chapter is mainly the prerequisite calculus, then the  next chapter jumps into first order equations. Then unlike most other  books, he jumps straight into second order problems. the biggest plus in  the book is the ready use of complex analysis throughout, something which  most books avoid altogether, thus allowing the student to get only a  partial understanding of the theory needed to solve more advanced problems.  Answers are included at the back of the book, problems are clear and  well-explained, and there are enough advanced topics covered later in the  book (including celestial mechanics) to keep the course interesting for  students of all kinds.	2000-06-09
US	50717925	R75PB0O7TAVMN	1561840076	303720680	Eight Lectures on Yoga	Books	2	15	36	N	N	Tiresome	This is Crowley's attempt at describing the parctice of Yoga as he thinks it should be done. Unfortunately, one of the biggest faults with this book is Crowley's habit of trying to show off to impress other people, which  gets highly annoying after a few pages. He goes into more detail than is  necessary for the beginner, and retains much of the Sanskrit terminology  which does not really aid one in understanding what he is talking about.  Crowley practiced Yoga in the context of magick and anyone who is not  familiar with &quot;Magick&quot;, &quot;The Book of the Law&quot; and  &quot;The Equinox&quot; may have trouble understanding what he means. The  book is composed of two pamphlets, &quot;Yoga for Yahoos&quot;, which goes  into reasonable detail as to the actual practice of Yoga, and &quot;Yoga  For Yellowbellies&quot; which is more a rambling discussion about nothing  in particular -- mainly citing various opinions of his that have little  basis in reality. Crowley, as always, is full of himself, and finds it  necessary to berate anybody who does not worship him, including the  established society at the time. One wonders why, if he thinks so little of  his contemporary society why he just doesn't ignore it instead of beating a  dead horse, but then that would not really be characteristic of him. He  rambles on about science, various authors he has read and so on, without  really making much of an impression on the reader. He introduces a great  deal of astrological talk, which does nothing but muddy the whole  discussion. The Yoga Sutras of Patanjali are better in every way for the  serious student, although not in keeping with the law of Thelema. One  wonders whether Yoga itself can have any real benefit to the Thelemite as  well. As he says over and over again in his condescending and often  insulting manner, &quot;Yoga means union&quot;. Not union with god, however  -- union with the &quot;all&quot; (big difference there). Also, how  surrendering one's willas is necessary in Yoga can be used to back  &quot;do what thou wilt be the whole of the law&quot; is anyone's guess.  This book is in the public domain by the way, and readily available on the  web, so one might want to check for it online before purchasing it. If you  enjoy having your intelligence insulted by someone who is convinced that he  is always right about everything and being talked down to by a  self-proclaimed &quot;master&quot; or enjoy occult doubletalk, this book is  for you. Otherwise stick to those who have the sense to say what they mean.	2000-06-09
US	50717925	R3NBZCQBD6G3WI	0782125468	787676684	Network+ Exam Notes	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Not Enough By Itself	This is an ok supplement to the Sybex Study Guide, but by itself it isn't nearly enough to ace the exam. It also contains several errors which could have easily been avoided. The information is technically correct, but some  of the answers are skipped, which one would presume, would rather defeat  the purpose of getting this book in the first place. Basically, if you heve  the Study Guide, you don't really need this.	2000-06-09
US	50717925	R3JECEQZQEWYSK	0782126375	809830136	i-Net+ Study Guide with CDROM	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Got Me Through The Test	This is a great book to use if you want to pass the i-Net+ exam. After a week of studying this book along with the Exam Notes, I passed the test with an 87. All of the material that I saw on the test was adequately  covered by this book. The practice test on the CD-ROM was so close to the  questions on the test that I didn't see how Sybex was allowed to market it.  Anyway, it got my my i-Net+ certification.	2000-06-09
US	50717925	R231IN0RLOXMNZ	1576104842	460989924	Network+ Practice Test Exam Cram	Books	5	3	3	N	N	It's Almost Like Cheating	Since the Network+ was my first cert, I was glad that I was able to get hold of this book to test out my knowledge as carefully as possible before taking a 185 buck test. As it turned out, the book was a great investment.  The questions in this book were so similar to the one's on CompTIA's  Network+ exam that it was almost like cheating. When I was in the testing  centre, I got the feeling that I had already taken the exam that I had been  given. I finished it in about 15 minutes since all the questions on the  exam were ones that I had seen in this book. Well worth the price.	2000-06-09
US	50717925	R6WS22U00HTRU	0877288178	637813361	The Complete Enochian Dictionary: A Dictionary of the Angelic Language As Revealed to Dr. John Dee and Edward Kelley	Books	3	23	28	N	N	Decent Dictionary	This book is just what it claims to be: a complete dictionary of the Enochian Language. Enochian is not really a language in the truest sense, but a cipher. There is an interesting essay at the beginning of the book,  in which Laycock describes the origins of the Enochian Calls and the  circumstances under which they were discovered by John Dee and Edward  Kelly. It becomes rather hard to not believe that John Dee was merely the  dupe of a con man (Kelly), but nevertheless, for anyone interested in the  cipher or it's history, the book makes for interesting reading. Three stars  because . . . well, a dictionary can only be so entertaining . . . most of  the book is just a list of Enochian words with their tranlsations in  English. Useful, but still a tad bit on the dull side. Still, it is  scholarly, and will have obvious uses to practitioners of Enochian magick.	2000-06-09
US	50717925	R2LJGPPQ3TVLJD	0486234002	67819620	Geometry, Relativity and the Fourth Dimension (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Intro to Non-Euclidean Geometry	This is the best introduction to non-Euclidean geometry and special relativity that I have ever encountered. The book is basic enough to be understandable (at least to a degree) by any intelligent (and determined)  adolescent, but deep enough for the physics or math undergraduate and  perhaps even graduate student to find continual interest in. Rucker has a  way of introducing complex ideas in a rather simple fashion so trhat one  doesn't often realise how deep the subject matter is at first. Unlike some  of his other books, however, considerable math background is required and a  substantial amount of effort and force of will on the part of the reader  will be necessary. All the same, the book is an intensely interesting foray  into the world of geometry and relativistic physics. His adaption af  Abbott's &quot;A.Square&quot; character to ealborated his ideas are  particularly amusing and helpful.	2000-06-08
US	50717925	R1F5U8S5L8FU0V	038797606X	982123568	Second Year Calculus: From Celestial Mechanics to Special Relativity (Undergraduate Texts in Mathematics)	Books	5	50	53	N	N	Calculus For Physics Students	Ok, for all those of you out there who always wanted to learn the math that you need to know to be able to do some really fun physics, THIS IS IT!  Most introductions to &quot;higher mathematics&quot; tend to be  rather impractical and largely useless and uninteresting topics (to the  physical scientist) such as set theory or abelian group theory, but this  book really delivers. The emphasis is on working out problems . . . there  is some theory, but this is really meant for engineers and physicists  rather than for mathematicians who are interested in theory alone. You need  a very solid grounding in first year calculus before you even think of  beginning this course. But once you get going, the topics that are  introduced include: multiple integrals, vectors, differential forms  (including tensors), and continues in this fashion until the last chapters  on electromagnetics, celestial mechanics and special relativity. Now, this  is not an easy book, but unlike many math texts that I have seen, it is by  no means impossible to learn all own your own. Thus, if something that  really interest you in the classroom is not covered, then this book would  make a great supplement. It is superb for self-study and contains most of  what you need to know to begin studying real physics and more advanced  paractical mathematics. I can't thank Dr. Bressoud enough for writing this  much-needed book! I only wish that I could give in ten stars instead of  only five!	2000-06-08
US	50717925	R23OZXPZR7EOEY	0130747815	962372669	The Best Kept Secret: Sexual Abuse of Children	Books	4	19	24	N	N	A Good Start	Florence Rush has done an excellent job in delineating the problem of the sexual abuse of children. If this book does nothing else, it may alert people, parents in particular, to the extent of the problem, the denial  that often accompanies it, and certain strategies of defence. On the minus  side, Rush seems to assume that nearly all the sexual abuse that occurs is  perpetrated on females, and while she does devote one chapter to the sexual  abuse of males, she seems to regard this as the exception rather than the  rule (I find this odd, consodering that mosr abusers seem to be male, and  sexual predators have been found almost invariably to have been victims of  similar crimes themselves). Also was a rather pointless excerpt about why  Lewis Carroll was not a child molester, but merely a bloke who liked little  girls (? ). Anyway, the book is an excellent resource for everybody  despite it's shortcomings, and should be read by all people, but parents in  particular.	2000-06-08
US	50717925	RT8V8KYINZ8U	0853123918	323494827	Kronecker Products and Matrix Calculus: With Applications (Mathematics and its Applications)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Tensors For Marketing	An excellent introduction to tensor and matrix calculus, the best thing about this book is that ot makes very clear at the outset what is being discussed rather than the slew of books that start tossing indices around  without so much as even attempting to provide a sensible definition of what  exactly a tensor is. The book concentrates mainly on matrices, and tensors  that can be represented by matrices. This is an unusual approach, as  usually, only the indicial notation is used. That can be helpful, but if  you don't understand what the indices mean, it can just be confusing. Since  everything os written out in matric form, it makes the tensors seem to have  much more comprehensibility, escpecially for someone new to the subject.  This book was indispensible to me in moving from basic to advanced  mathematics. The one oddity here is that it was intended, as the author  states, mainly for marketing students and not for engineers. This is odd,  as I can hardly imaginine most business students pluggin away at vector  calculus, and there are no real marketing specific problems, but it was not  intended for physics students. All the same, no real attention is paid to  theory and the problems posed are all readily understandable to those who  have done with multivariable calculus and linear algebra. I wish that this  little book were easier to find; it woulf be a great help to confused  engineers everywhere.	2000-06-08
US	50717925	R3LCZHPSFJFMKR	0486639460	634602741	Elementary Matrix Theory (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	5	59	64	N	N	Not Linear Algebra	I love this book. It contains a wealth of information on basic matrix theory that one almost never gets in the classroom or typical undergraduate texts. I never realised how rich the theory of matrix theory was until I read this book. Bare in mind, however, that this is not a text on linear algebra . . . the author does touch upon the subject, but even then it is linear algebra in the context of matrix theory and not matrices in the context of linear algebra. This is rather an old approach, but one I think that is very enlightening. The author touches on advanced topics such as Lie products, Hamilton products, tensor products and so on. I this way, the student learns that the traditional way of multiplying matrices is not the only way, but simply the way that linear algebra chooses to make use of the matrices. The level of the book is undegraduate, so that any intelligent high school student should be able to get much out of the book. No real math background is required, although it would be helpful. Theory is paid attention to, but a great deal of detail is also given worked out problems, making it ideal for math students who don't yet feel comfortable with advanced theoretical math.	2000-06-08
US	50717925	R2UL0QIPHSHHMW	1853266353	991442608	Justine or The Misfortunes of Virtue (Wordsworth Classic Erotica)	Books	2	10	31	N	N	The Misfortunes of Virtue	Ths story of two sisters, one who is highly &quot;virtuous&quot; and the other who is something of an opportunist, Sade does his best to show that traditional Christian virtue doesn't pay. he fails miserably, of course,  since there is little in the way of genuine critique in this glorification  of abasement. Sade was not really a sadist, strange to say -- his  &quot;sadistic writings&quot; were more a reaction against the conservative  era in which he lived. His own sexual practices for the most part would not  be condemned today. But while in prison, he did his best to shock the  establishment with works such as this as the only form of revenge he could  take out on his society. Sade was not intelligent enough to see that his  wild phantasies were due largely to the repression of a fairly powerful,  although normal sexuality, and that the primary attarction that he got from  his imaginary sadism was that of what LaVey calls the &quot;law of the  forbidden&quot;. Sade was interested in such sadistic stories mostly  because he knew that he shouldn't be and that it would outrage his  contemporaries. Since most of his work are merely reactions rather than  genuine explorations of his own mind, it is difficult to take them  seriously. The worst part about the book is the puerile attempts at a  philosophy which would justify any sort of corrupt behaviour. He tends to  make his theives, rapists and murderers into pseudo-philosphers who do what  they do, not out of an emotional enslavement to genuine sadistical  practices nor out of a hatred of others in general (he has obviously no  insight into the workings of the criminal mind whatsoever), but as the  result of a logical intellectual process, much like Wilson does with hs  killer in &quot;Ritual In The Dark&quot;. And nnone becomes a sadist as the  result of any intellectual process or philosophy. The philosophy comes  afterwards, as a means of justifying behaviour which is at its root  destructive. It seems a pity that a man who had the opportunity to spend so  much time a alone and was given the chance to analyse himself, his  motivations and ideas so thoroughly had so little knowlege of himself or  his society.	2000-06-07
US	50717925	R1R6KG079U0UNA	0534936245	98842629	Calculus	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Best Introductory Text	By far, the best introductory text on elementary calculus that I have ever read. It starts from a review of basic algebra and trigonometry and develops the subject, with profuse examples and graphs all the way to  elementray differential equations. More attnetion should have been payed to  multivariable calculus and vector calculus I think, but even so, this is  the most comrpehensive guide to elementary calculus that I have ever come  across. Great for classroom study or self-study. Excellent text for the  beginner.	2000-06-07
US	50717925	R2F7DM30B1F2YF	0380013924	24612273	The Satanic Rituals: Companion to The Satanic Bible	Books	1	22	36	N	N	Trite and Predictable	A manual of ritual satanic magic, this is one of LaVey's poorest efforts. For one thing, he has the history of the Yezidis completely wrong. For another, he (as usual) never cites anybody for anything, prefering to steal the ideas of others and take credit for them himself. Next, he uses invocations that involve made-up entities (primarily by H.P. Lovecraft), dubious scientific theories (Wilhelm Reich) and in general just a large bunch of hocus pocus. If anyone intends to perform any sort of magical rituals for themselves, I would think that they would have the intelligence and creativity to develop their own rather than depending upon those of someone else -- they would certainly seem to be more meaningful than those concocted by another. If you enjoy amusing psychodrama and are a good actor, this book might have promise, otherwise don't waste your time. If magic of any sort could be reduced to a trite series of rites (like many Christians and Hindoos seem to believe) then everybody would be a god. LaVey also seems to feel that the only magic worth doing is magic to gain power over others. Any sort of self-development is simply ignored. And the reasons for doing the rituals are rather silly. I mean honestly! Sex rituals? Are Satanists so pathetic that they need to do magic to get a sex partner? Satanic Baptisms? If you think the churches are all one big lie, then why bother mimicking their rites at all? The Black Mass is a boring parody of the Christian Mass, and Die Electrishen Vorspielen and Call to Cthulhu are nothing but novelties. An intelligent child could have done better. For those interested in the early history of the now defunct Church of Satan it may be worth getting. Also, LaVey seems to have managed to keep a much saner and more moderate perspective than he did later in his life shortly before he died. This is the one thing that makes the book bearable (along with the essays at the beginning). But all in all, a real dissapointment.	2000-06-07
US	50717925	R1H38QVML04YXD	0801990459	629457170	Naturally Creative Candles: Discover the Craft of Candle Making and Decorating Using Nature's Bounty	Books	3	12	15	N	N	Decent Guide	A decent guide to candlemaking. The book is rather short on text and consists mostly of pretty pictures, and that's a little irritating. Still, there is enough here to teach you to make your own tapers, although I was  rather surprised at how easy it was. Great of you've never done it before.	2000-06-07
US	50717925	R9XUDT4J111L6	0192835459	898449629	The Flowers of Evil (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	8	15	N	N	Pretty Good	As translations of poetry go, this is one of the better ones that I have come across. The renderings in English verse are well done, but still do not give the real flavour of the French verses. All the same, it is a good  effort and an important contribution to the English speaking world to  finally have some decent translations of one of France's greatest poets.	2000-06-07
US	50717925	RES8WFUYMOD74	0517595338	514914266	203 Ways to Drive a Man Wild in Bed	Books	1	19	22	N	N	?	I read this book when I was at a friend's house; I was attracted by the title, but dissappointed by the content. If you have common sense, nothing in this book will be news to you, and not all of the advice is good. The  book also fails to treat men as individuals, as the author seems to think  that the same tactics will work on all males. Being a male myself, I can  assure you that this approach is erroneous. Better communication with your  partner will do far more than this silly tome ever could.	2000-06-07
US	50717925	R3QIQJYW8X5WAI	0122676556	323710905	Introductory Analysis, Second Edition: The Theory of Calculus	Books	2	8	9	N	N	Odium	This is the testbook that was used in my Advanced Calculus I and II classes as an undergraduate. It is well laid out and neat, but there are so few tips at how to go about doing the proofs in the book and so few  examples that it makes it doubly hard to catch on to what is a very  diffcult subject to start out with. The book starts off with the basic of  set theory and assumes the field properties of the real numbers. From then,  it moves to Least Upper Bounds, sequences, and begins to develop the theory  that the calculus is based on. But for the ordinary student, the develoment  of the theory is still rather mystifying. Not surprisingly, the more  advanced topics in the book are easier than the more elementary topics  because by the time you get to the more advanced topics, you have more  theoretical framework and more tools with which to work. But on the whole,  I found that this book just made one of the most challenging set of courses  that the undergraduate will ever face even more diffcult -- for an  &quot;introduction&quot; to real anaylsis, one would hope for a more  gradual approach to the theoretical model of the calculus.	2000-06-07
US	50717925	R2O8RRQAUQ4BW5	0822507536	76249927	Graystone College	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Life In Prison	The memoirs of a young man who was found guilty of robbing a liquor store and was sentenced to 20 years in prison while his partner-in-crime was given probation. For such a book, it is not all that intense or gritty, but  does give a good impression of prison life at the time that the books was  written in. The impression one gets, although probably misleading, is that  of a decent guy who was treated rather harshly by the legal system. Not  really impressive, but worth an afternoon maybe.	2000-06-06
US	50717925	R233VDJYRKNK5D	0060263199	360545907	Sun Moon Star	Books	2	7	14	N	N	Children's Story?	A book about the world as the baby Jesus saw it after his birth . . . just shapes and colours. Seems to be a child's tale at first, but no child would probably get much out of it. Just a few words, and some pictures. I wasn't  that impressed, but the story and method of presentaion may be charming  enough for some readers. Not Vonnegut's best effort. Although, it is  original! I've never seen an approach even remotely close to the one taken  here.	2000-06-06
US	50717925	R2R8020PKR6O8Z	0312113935	79169380	Mankiller: A Chief and Her People	Books	3	3	35	N	N	Interesting	I enjoyed reading about Wilma Mankiller and her activities to better the lot of her people. She is obviously a very strong woman with deeply-held beliefs and convictions which she does her best to apply in everyday life.  Still, there was more than a hint of modern-day victim mentality, which  considering the culture that she has come from is sort of insulting. The  identification with the past generations of Indians does little to help her  cause. Tradition and heritage may be important to some people, but it's  hard not to scoff when you hear her say &quot;I feel the pain of my  ancestors&quot;. Maybe she does, in a small way, but it's also a clever  political tactic that I don't altogether approve of. Native Americans need  to learn to move forward instead of always moaning about how they were  forced under by superior numbers. So much of this seems like whining that  it can be a little hard to take in places, especially considering that  Native American culture before the whites came was no less brutal than that  of their oppressors. Still, this was an interesting sojourn into a  little-known aspect of American politics and culture that few are aware of.  All in all not a bad book, although it could be better.	2000-06-06
US	50717925	R2SZ4K8KM6DGSY	0384242146	184545193	Sometimes God Has A Kid's Face	Books	2	4	18	N	N	Biography of A Hypocrite	This is Ritter's own story of &quot;Coveneant House&quot;, a place of refuge for street children who have nowhere else to turn. He goes into detail describing the life of children forced out onto the streets, and his  plans for saving them. He refers to Dr. Ruth Westheimer here as the  &quot;high priestess of hedonism&quot; as if sex education and sexual  perversion go hand in hand! Many of his ideas are ridiculous and certainly  coloured by his religious beliefs, but for all his efforts, it is hard to  take him seriously now, because, as it turned out, he was one of the child  molesters that he campaigned so hard against! Although Coveneant House of  fortunately still finctional without him, one wonders whether his concern  for the street children of the U.S. was really for their own benefits or  just an old man's attempts to get them into his own hands for his own  sexual cravings.	2000-06-06
US	50717925	R1T8DRQGC6AAK2	0451166582	487763765	The Eyes of the Dragon	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Medaeival Phantasy	I found this to be one of King's best books. Rather than his usual horror fare, this book is the romantic story of a medaeival prince who is thrown into a dungeon after his mother dies and after his father (the king) comes  under the influence of a sinister court sorceror. As usual, King sees right  into the heart of human emotions and that is what makes this tale so  gripping. The romantic setting in a faraway kingdom just adds interest to  the story. Another one like this would be a real treat!	2000-06-06
US	50717925	R2X0VTH4UHI820	0782123813	906248134	CCNA: Cisco Certified Network Associate Study Guide	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Excellent Study Guide	This is a great study guide for the CCNA exam, as all Sybex's books seem to be. The one bad thing about this book is that it does not come with routing simulation software. As exams go, the CCNA is pretty tough, and  what makes it so hard is the router commands that you have to learn; and  this is doubly hard if you don't have access to a router, or aren't  inclined to spend 500 bucks or so to get one. So, an additional expenditure  for some router simulators may be in order. And as always, it pays never to  rely on just one book, no matter how good it is. For those seriosuly  considering the CCNA but woth no knowledge of networking technologies, I  would recommend taking the Network+ exam first, as it provides an excellent  introduction to networking and will definitely help with the CCNA, as this  book is not really for beginners.	2000-06-06
US	50717925	R3PJ2N7DO9I4CW	1570900817	466914210	Geronimo's Story of His Life	Books	1	9	17	N	N	Dull	For those interested in Apache history, this may make a nice read, but most of it amounts to a catalog of battles, which to me, are very uninteresting. Some aspects of the way Geronimo thought comes out, but this  was basically a boring, tedious book.	2000-06-06
US	50717925	R1SF0A8F5G3EUJ	0899663753	182408519	Lady Chatterleys Lover	Books	3	11	15	N	N	Underlying Theme Is Incorrect	Lady Chatterley's Lover is a beautiful love story written by a great artist. It is by no means only a &quot;sex&quot; story, but portrays two individuals quite sensitively. If one sticks to the surface story, one will  probably be quite taken with the beauty of it. But there is an underlying  theme here which runs throughout all of Lawrence's work: the idea that the  world is a dirty, unpleasant place and that people are always small,  disagreeable and nasty and that the solutions to all of life's most  pressing problems is orgasm. This is rather silly, to say the least.  Certain portions of life can be ugly, but the extent to which Lawrence does  so in this novel is really stretching it a bit. It seems like a set-up to  me: after showing only the negative portion of life and convincing the  reader that this is reality as &quot;it really is&quot;, he springs his  stock solution: sex. This seems as absurd to me as trying to grab a handful  of air; imagination is at the root of the sexual appetite in humans and  this he leaves rather untouched. Intellectualism is also disavowed in  prference to a sort of bodily exaltation which leaves one at the mercy of  one's physical being without recourse to higher faculties (inlcuding those  of control and discipline). It is also interesting to note that in his  philosophical position, Lawrence is much closer to Sartre than Camus, who  although still a pessimist, finds a great deal of exuberance in the  physical world of nature that Lawrence and Sartre tend to reject as ugly  and forbidding. The philosophical underpinnings sort of ruin the novel for  me, although it may not be noticeable until the second or third read.	2000-06-06
US	50717925	R17CTRHURLBPSP	0156569604	103430103	The Man in the Sycamore Tree: The Good Times and Hard Life of Thomas Merton	Books	4	12	12	N	N	A Great Look At A Great Man	A very interesting look at the late Thomas Merton by Edward Rice, one of his close friends. The book is fairly small and easy to read and contaons a wealth of information by and about Merton which other sources leave out.  Included are some of his drawings (rather &quot;naughty&quot; ones, too!),  the way his opinions changed from the time when he first entered the  Catholic church to the time of his death. Merton's views were continually  changing and Rice is the only person who actually has come out and said in  print what was quite plain to most of his readers: that at the time of his  death, he was far more a Buddhist than a Christian. Many photos are  included, as well as several of Merton's hermitage out in the woods of  Kentucky, and several of Merton and his friends in his beer-swilling  fraternity days along with his boasts of early sexual conquests). A great  deal of commentary is given on the contemplative life (particularly useful  to those considering becoming hermits) and on the role of peace as the full  flowering of the mystical life. At the tome of his death, Merton was going  to ask permission from his Abbey at Gethsemene to stay in Asia, as he  considered the monks there to have a far superior insight into one's  relationship with god and deep meditation than the ones in the West did,  and with whom he seemed to be running into nearly continual conflicts with.  great for anyone interested in Buddhism, Zen, Merton, or mysticism.	2000-06-05
US	50717925	R2Y4FJIBT0AC0J	0452272211	631973895	Scheisse! The Real German You Were Never Taught in School	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Naughtyspeak	This is a very funny and useful book. As langauges go, German seems to have an unusually colourful set of expletives. This is not only meant for those who intend to use a great deal of profanity, however -- knowledge of  the use of certain slangs, putdowns and swear words are necessary to get a  feel for the language as well as to avoid unintentionally embarassing  oneself. For example, a typist should never be called a typist (typsi) in  German, as it is an insult. There are quite a few colloqialisms here, so be  knowledgeable about which ones are used in which areas of Germany, Austria  and Switzerland to avoid sounding like an idiot, and of you do choose to  use these phrases, DO be VERY careful, as some of them are considered  highly offensive.	2000-06-05
US	50717925	R2F9KVXSDIGZ2L	0441002897	564569075	Tek Power	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Not A Bad Try	This is one of Bill Shatner's &quot;Tek War&quot; series' books. It is not bad, but also not particularly memorable. For all those Star Trek fans out there, don't bother, as this is nothing like Star Trek . . . although if  Shatner hadn't been riding on his Star Trek fame, this book would have  probably never have been published. His writing style is very gritty,  something like Robert Heinlein, although not quite as bad. The book is  really more of a detective/police story (the &quot;T.J. Hooker&quot;  influence, no doubt) set in the future. If you like police stories, you  might like this, but frankly, I was not much impressed.	2000-06-05
US	50717925	RA1CARZYXXCV0	0762407506	359328989	Sex For Dummies (Miniature Editions)	Books	2	19	22	N	N	Must Have Been Written For Pre-Adolescents	An easy to read book, it tells one nothing of the mechanics of sex, but more the details that one should give to a child. It would make a great book for parents to use with their children or for children in elementary  or middle school, but is not for anybody who has started high-school. If  you need to know the material here, then you obviously had to have dropped  out of school in second grade or are just plain uninterested in the topic.	2000-06-05
US	50717925	R1N1F25WJPSUTP	0140187006	686745219	The Ramayana: A Shortened Modern Prose Version of the Indian Epic (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	55	60	N	N	Wonderful Retelling	This is a condensed version of not the original Ramayana as handed down to us in Sanskrit, but of the Tamil version of the story that Sri Narayanji grew up with. There are versions of the Ramayana in nearly all Indian  dialects and languages, and as Tamil is one of the oldest, it is also quite  interesting to see a translation from that language. The tale is told  fairly faithfully, although much is left out (this is necessary to avoid  having to sell several volumes to tell the whole tale, as the original tale  is HUGE). I thought that it may have been a rather boring story, especially  to a modern reader, but boy, was I ever wrong! This was one of the most  entertaining and gripping books that I have ever read. It tells the story  of Ramachandra's youth to his betrayal by his stepmother, his journey in  the desert, and how he defeated Ravana, who had kidanapped Sita and brought  her to Sri Lanka, as well as Hanuman's revelries. Rama is still an  excellent example of Hindoo ideals, but the primary value of the story for  me was not so much religious or ethical as much as it was simply a  fascinating journey into the vast world of Indian literature. A wonderful  read; I would recommend it to anyone.	2000-06-05
US	50717925	R3L4LC64PWA2AX	0471139009	30964284	Street French 3: The Best of Naughty French	Books	4	12	13	N	N	French Indeed!	An excellent introduction to &quot;naughty French&quot;, this book contaons phrases and words that are both considered insulting as well as just those that are common in informal speech. Chapters on sexual terms,  body parts, put downs, and so on make this book very useful as well as  amusing to read. This is not only for the vulgar minded; a certain skill in  understanding certain profanities is necessary so that one does not  intentionally say something inappropriate. the author gives an example in  the introduction: an American teacher teaching English in France tells her  class that she &quot;kisses&quot; her husband everyday in the doorway of  her house. However, the word that technically means kiss, in the case  mentioned, can also mean &quot;to screw&quot;. So you can understand how  knowledge of such terms are used is a necessity if one is to communicate  effectively in French.	2000-06-05
US	50717925	R1XN5OZ71SWM8M	0440145368	691952859	How to Make a Man Fall in Love with You: The Fail-Proof, Fool-Proof Method	Books	3	19	22	N	N	Keeps Overstating Her Premise	This book is a manual in applied nero-linguistic programming. The idea is that all people tend to express themselves in language that represents the way they see the world, primarily in feeling, hearing, or visual terms. To  this end, the book may be quite useful, not merely in sexual situations or  those involving a close relationship between two people, but in many sorts  of social interaction (for example, the pioneers of NLP originally designed  it to aid in teaching music to their pupils). The books contains a wealth  of excellent information about the communication styles of people and how  one can alter one's own communication style so as to make better  impressions and to get across better. particularly useful was the  information on &quot;mirroring&quot;, i.e., adopting the bodily postures of  other people so as to give them the unconsciously perceived notion that one  is either affected by them or is sympatico with regards to them. The claims  that the author makes, however, are ludicrous. People are complicated  beings and they cannot be reudced down to such simplistic terms. One  example she give is quite telling: she has a lady say that she loves a man,  using an improper communication style. He quickly dumps her because he  takes offence at her words. Please! Unless a man is an absolute moron  (sure, most of us guys might be idiots, but then why would you want one of  those to fall in love with you?), he would have to be intelligent enough to  understand what his lady was trying to say. One cannot &quot;make&quot;  someone else fall in love with you, and the techniques are by no means  guaranteed like Cabot seems to think. Human beings are not automatons.  Still, it could be a very valuable guidebook for politicians and others who  need to be able to influence other people tactufully without them realising  what is happening. Another manual in manipulating others is the  &quot;Satanic Witch&quot; by Anton LaVey; it takes a rather opposite  approach, but could be even more effective under suitable circumstances.  Still, the book does open the door to dimensions of communication that are  largely ignored in our society, but which still have an affect on our  behaviour.	2000-06-05
US	50717925	R3UKV0BJ1390QR	0874810434	707888341	Bhagavad Gita: The Song of God	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Beautiful Interpretation	This is not a translation of the Gita as much as an intepretation. Scholars will find much to irritate them here as direct translation was not Isherwood's aim, but rather an interpretation of the text in such a way  that was best suited to Isherwood's own aim's of self-enlightenment. This  volume is easy to read, and many sections have been put into a  semi-poetical form to recall the feel of the original (a big plus, as few  modern translations have attempted to do the same). Also, quite interesting  is the introduction by Aldous Huxley, in which he relates his  &quot;Perennial Philosophy&quot; to the Gita and speaks in detail about  Hinduism as well as it's relation to other faiths. An appendix on various  Hindoo ideas is included that makes some potentially foreign concepts a  little bit easier to assimilate. For anyone who loves the Gita as I do,  this book is a treasure trove.	2000-06-05
US	50717925	RPGGPHW3H0DID	1570624313	925387904	Meditations (Shambala Pocket classics)	Books	2	16	21	N	N	Too Brief To Do Krishnamurti Justice	This is a tiny, tiny (89 pp.) book is far too brief to dojustice even remotely to a thinker like Jaddu Krishnamurti. The sizeof the book is only 3.5&quot; x 5.0&quot; and the longest excerpt from any of his talks or writings (the book is composed solely of such snippets from his other work) are very short -- 2 pages at the most -- and they fail to give an adequate understanding of the breadth and deepness of Krishnamurti's mature philosophy, one that in my opinion, is one of the most important streams of contemporary thought, and one which surely deserves more than such a tiny volume is able to convey. It's cheap, but not worth the price. Get one of his larger and more complete books if you are interesting in finding out what this brilliant and very genuine man had to say. Any less than that would be doing injustice to the integrity of his work.	2000-06-05
US	50717925	R18ZLMSYCMH8LV	0451156579	302443892	How to Drive Your Woman Wild in Bed (Signet)	Books	5	60	65	N	N	Excellent Guide	An excellent guide for all men, from the most inexperienced virgin to &quot;expert&quot; lovers. It gives a great amount of detail as to how to please most women. This consists not mostly of physical sexuality, but the  way in which the sexual act is approached -- with sensitivity, respect, and  good communication. the author provides numerous examples of men who  thought they were great lovers, but who were really quite insensitive to  the needs of their partners. technique is considered much less important  than open communication, respect and intimacy. A detailed guide to oral sex  is included, as well as various methods used to make one's partner feel  comfortable enough to open up a bit more. A very important contribution to  sexology; probably the finest sex manual that I have ever read.	2000-06-02
US	50717925	R24X44GCOU3M50	0672317257	703072325	Sams Teach Yourself Web Publishing with HTML 4 in 21 Days (2nd Edition)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	All You Need	This book taught me all that I needed to know in order to create my own website and maintain it. It contains far more information than the beginning site designer will ever need to know, but is very handy  nonetheless. After finishing this book, I was ready to start learning  JavaScript and XML. It contains an HTML reference guide and is an excellent  introduction for the beginner as well as a useful reference guide for the  expert.	2000-06-02
US	50717925	R1YWC2C7D36DFW	0671023373	104801902	Man's Search For Meaning	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Introduction to Logotherapy	This is one of my favourite books. It is really two books in one. The first is an account of the author's imprisonment in Auschwitz, and the insights he gained into the individual's search for meaning in suffering  while there, and the second book is a more detailed introduction to  &quot;Logotherapy&quot;. Frankl does not deny the usefulness of Jung's or  Freud's work, but he does not stop there -- he continues where they left  off. His brand of pychology he calls &quot;logotherapy&quot; -- or  &quot;meaning therapy&quot;. In this sort of analysis, he tries to get the  individual to look at their present life rather than examing complexes,  phobias or dreams. Many people who are unsatisfied in their lives can trace  this to a nagging sense of meaning starvation. This can be overcome, in  Frankl's view. He doesn't give any very good ideas as to how one is to go  about doing this in much detail, but then again, this is just an  introductory text. The problem of meaning is a topic that also embraces a  religious perspective on life, and it may be of interest to those who wish  to pursue this further. It is a very inspirational book and contains many  helpful insights for those who are struggling with any sort of suffering,  pain, or grief, which they are powereless to combat. In such cases, Frankl  suggests, one's only positive action may to be to endure the suffering in  the right way, and to find meaning and worth in pain. This seems important  to me, because life is not all happiness . . . the bad times as well as the  good must be redeemed as worthwhile for an individual to feel a true sense  of life's worth. Hopefully, in the future, Frankl's ideas will gain more  prominence as they seem to offer more promise than most other forms of  psychological theories do. A very powerful read.	2000-06-02
US	50717925	RY7HYEYE79WNQ	0966914902	192456598	The New Sensual Massage	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Sensual Massage At Its Best	This is the best massage manual that I have ever come across. There are numerous photographs that aid one in doing the massages (a big plus over word descriptions alone) and detailed instructions on how to proceed for  total body relaxtion. This makes for an excellent set of afterplay  techniques as well as those designed for deep muscular relaxation. Thus it  is of great use for lovers as well as for those who just need to unwind.  Highly recommended.	2000-06-02
US	50717925	R37BGFOJW3RMT	076454571X	828399672	A+ Certification Test Prep Kit, DOS/Windows Exam	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Great Exam Prep	This little book is an excellent guide for anyone trying to pass the DOS/Windows module of the A+ Examination. It is very concise and to the point, easy to read and moves quickly. Especially helpful are the practice  quizzes on the CD-ROM, which provides actual exam simulations for standard  and adaptive tests as well as interactive study sessions. The one caveat is  that this is an exam PREP book, and would better be used as a final review  tool than as a primary study manual. One would do better to use a meatier  book for the actual studying and use this a final review tool. But an  excellent book, one of the best certification manuals available.	2000-06-02
US	50717925	RQC8WJOH8LIJ8	0520069048	479475619	The Saga of the Volsungs: The Norse Epic of Sigurd the Dragon Slayer	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Great Translation	A very different book from the Niebelungenlied (a courtly epic), this book shows a much more tribal mentality and a soul of a people that is much closer to nature. It makes for interesting comparisons with other similar  cultures, such as that of the American Indians. The story is mostly fable  and is hard to follow, but the images are powerful. This is one of the best  places to start if you are interested in any sort of ancient Norse  literature.	2000-06-01
US	50717925	R2E4VWBGHZ301C	0486228371	651493026	La-Bas (Down There)	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Interesting	This is a study of Satanism is the 19th century. The focus is on a bloke who is doing some research into Gilles de Rais. Much of the book is rather dull, and it does contaon some good information, but it tells one less  about Satansim and more about one maniac than some believe. Also  fascinating is the emphasis placed on &quot;decadence&quot; in art and  literature. The Bell-rigner was an interesting character as well. Some of  the scenes of the Black Mass were amusing, but all in all I wasn't that  impressed. The style of Huysmans, however, I liked considerably. For a more  realistic look at Satansim, one would do better to consult some of LaVey's  work.	2000-06-01
US	50717925	R3QM9XV0D8KVVG	1556156383	463417007	Concise Guide to MS-DOS Batch Files/6.2 Version	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Great Intro	This is a great intro do MS-DOS, but it doesn't really deal at all with the configuration and architecture of the operating system. Like the title says, it is a short, concise guide to batch files and how to use them. If  you want to learn to configure your operating environment using  AUTOEXEC.BAT, but were afraid of messing something up, this book is a handy  little guide. Especially good for beginners.	2000-06-01
US	50717925	R3TRO7AX3QBLXV	0686312368	793308489	Fungi from Yuggoth	Books	3	3	7	N	N	His Fiction Is Better	This is a small collection of Lovecraft's &quot;Cthulhu Mythis&quot; verses. It amounts to only 9 pages, and although Lovecraft was a competent versifier and wrote endless reams of poetry, his verse just can't match up  to his fiction. If you are a diehard Lovecraft fan, you'll love this,  otherwise the poems will seem kind of bland.	2000-06-01
US	50717925	R30D8TJCA4PQET	0312529511	216485413	Men on Rape: What They Have to Say About Sexual Violence	Books	3	17	22	N	N	Interesting, But Disturbing	This book is a selection of men's reactions and attitudes to rape. Some of it is interesting, but the majority of the book is rather disturbing. A large variety of males seem to think that rape is not really something that  one should get too worked up about! There is a quote by a lawyer in the  book about how he would feel guilty if he didn't do his best to get his  client off of a rape charge, but who says that allo the same, he would  &quot;kill&quot; anyone who touched his wife. Another man states that a  woman who was raped by a plumber that she had let into her house to fix  some of her pipes was basically &quot;asking for it&quot; because if she  didn't want sex, she shouldn't have let him into the house! How supposedly  decent guys can excuse such monstrous behaviour is beyond me. Other men who  although castigating the act of rape themselves, say that the act turns  them on when they read about it. Not all of the men in the book are so  insensitive, but all in all it makes for a rather upsetting read,  especially for anyone who has female friends and relatives that they care  about.	2000-06-01
US	50717925	R16CRF3T97LRH7	0374507481	857469136	Beneath the Wheel: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Excellent Analysis of the Artist	This is a well-written book, very personal as all of Hesse's works are, but suffers from a rather underdeveloped writing style -- understandable since it was written so early in Hesse's career -- but still quite noticeable. The book is based upon the character of Hans Giebenrath, a boy who is \\"beneath the wheel\\" -- he is attending school to become a member of the clergy, which was one of the few options available to intelligent people in Hesse's day. he had to study Latin, Greek, history, theology, and so on -- none of which to hans seems to have the slightest relation to reality -- it's all just dry, dead scholasticism that stuffy professors have to know that does nothing but remove one from the centre and essence of life rather than contributing to it. Hans tries and tries, and succeeds until he meets Heilner, a misfit whom hans secretly admires but does not have the courage to emulate totally. Keeping Hesse's later works in mind, one would get the idea that heilner is actually a projection of the true, inner self of Hans -- the person he needs to be, but does not have the courage to become. Nevertheless, Heilner is a poet -- he sees the silly scholastic activities for what they are -- as if conjugating aroists and memorising the date of Charlemagne's death had any real significance! And he manages to get himself disgraced; it is then that Hans begins to realise that all that he is doing is nothing but hypocrisy. He is doing it simply because he is expected to do it, not because he has any real passion for his studies. he loses interest, and to all mundane valuations, becomes a failure. He gets a job in manual labour which offers even less in the way of mental stimulation that the challenging, but useless scribblings of the clergy and professors do. (...) The book highlights a central theme in the life of the \\"artist\\" types: how one is forced to accept values that one knows are false, but to which there seems no other alternative. the creative person is caught between a rock and a hard place, having to choose between a common, bourgeois existence or dead scholasticism and vital life -- one needs to choose vital life, but how? No answer is given. A very autobiographical novel, Hesse's own struggles are not really the result of any inherent mental instability, but simply underlines the problems of the traditional Wilsonian \\"Outsider\\": how is one is to live the most intense life with integrity and not bow out to the values of the masses? Like so many outsiders, Hesse and Hans knew that something was wrong, knew that they needed a way out, but Hans was not successful in finding out exactly where that path lay. An excellent book, well-worth anyone's time.	2000-05-31
US	50717925	RIIB6H69PV2HA	0399129839	367197181	Ency Modern Murder	Books	2	0	9	N	N	An Encyclopaedia of Murder	Just what it claims to be, there is not much to this book. It is a catalog of a large number of murders, most of which are not particularly unusual or interesting. I found it rather dull, but it's OK if you like cheap thrills.	2000-05-31
US	50717925	R28NRWKAMUSQN1	0553375407	350438534	Ishmael:A Novel	Books	2	7	16	N	N	OK, But Not Very Practical	In this book, Quinn makes use of the rather improbable, but somehow appropriate device of having a telepathic gorilla educate a man who has genuine concern for the environment and wishes to see an alternative to the  way that we in western society are living. Although this remains a good  attempt, I think that he has failed. For one thing, Quinn seems to regard  the human race as no more or less important than any other species on this  planet. This may be fine in a literary sense, but it is impossible to take  very seriously (and if anyone really did, they would fortunately, I hope,  wind up in prison!). We do need to learn a way of taking better care of our  world without being any more destructive than is necessary, but that is  much, much easier said than done. A certain degree of plunder is necessary  for medicines, shelter and so on. Certainly, things could be a great deal  better than they are now -- that is the one point I think that should be  got from the book -- but he offers no real solutions here. At several  points in the book, he seems almost to encourage a sort of &quot;back to  nature&quot; act, which is simply romantic nonsense. Any such community  would buy necessity be dependent on a larger community of plunderers that  supports it by providing it with food in times of drought or famine,  medicine, and so on. So the one idea that he seems to encourage is really  not feasible. Some of the claims that he makes are also simply not true. As  for hunter-gatherer societies having it easy -- please! It is a great deal  of work and entails considerable risk to live in such a manner; one gets  the impression that Quinn really knows little of such conditions but simply  has romantic ideas of what it might be like to do so. The analysis of our  particular &quot;creayion' story -- that taught in schools today, the story  of the universe as we now know it, could prove enlightening if for no other  reason than to encourage people to take a critical look at facets of  modern-day philosophy that they have unwittingly accepted, but there are no  practical solutions here. It is like going to a doctor and being told that  you have cancer, but going away without any definite course of action.  There are much better books available. This one left me with a very bland  opinion of the author's ability to help in our current ecological dilemmas.	2000-05-31
US	50717925	R2YENBJWIUGF3B	0786881852	358457399	Don't Sweat the Small Stuff . . . and It's All Small Stuff: Simple Ways to Keep the Little Things from Taking Over Your Life (Don't Sweat the Small Stuff Series)	Books	3	33	45	N	N	Easier Said Than Done	This is a nice lightweight little book that has a lot of commonsense advice in it, but the title is a bit misleading; it's ALL small stuff?  Hardly. It might be easy to tell someone that they need to not worry about  certain things and take things easy, but in practice it's not so easy. And  some of the advie given can be just plain bad if followed too closely. I  mean, really . . . &quot;Regard everyone s enlightened but you&quot;?  How  can anybody POSSIBLY do that? It seems a sort ot &quot;Tao&quot; Living for  the new age; go with the flow; don't let anything get to you. Give way to  others even when they are wrong. It might sound nice, and I am sure it  makes for good sleep, but it would be a boon for dictators anywhere! Life  is not easy; it cannot be watered down so that it is all small stuff. This  material may be useful to a degree, but for one to really go about changing  their life, an internal transfromation needs to occur; otherwise it is all  just a crash course in how to be a mouse.	2000-05-31
US	50717925	R1N68LV45T3XTB	1890774022	185267660	DB2 for the COBOL Programmer, Part 1, 2nd Ed.	Books	5	45	47	N	N	All You Need To Learn DB2	This is an excellent resource for all those baffled programmers who need to learn DB2 fast. Thos book provides clear-cut examples, syntax, and the results of the various SQL commands that are most likely to be needed by  any programmer. All the basics from simple SELECT statements are covered  all the way up to ORDER BY clauses, joins and so on. A special chapter on  using SPUFI was also a big help. The emphasis here is on the COBOL language  and mainframe computers, but it is an excellent learning tool for anyone.  The book teaches by example and can be finished easily within a week (The  example programs are what make it look so big). A must-read for anyone  interested in relationall databases.	2000-05-31
US	50717925	R3BQIFEQLQ8XL5	0451526597	808071278	The Perfumed Garden of Cheikh Nefzaoui: A Manual of Arabian Erotology (Signet Classics)	Books	2	19	26	N	N	An Erotic Classic -- But Still Kind of Dull	I was surprised to find this book on the shelf of books recommended for high-school students at my local bookstore, but the subject intrigued me, so I decided to take a chance on it. Like all decent sex manuals, it gives  good advice in many matters -- foreplay, treating one's partner with  respect, and so forth, but often lacks the detail necessary for one who  actually needs the advice in the first place to follow. And like most sex  manuals, the people who need it the most are the ones who will be the least  likely to bother with it. There is a long catalog of various names of the  sex organs of both males and females which was half-amusing, half-tedious.  Suffice to say that they are not all that different from the ones in use  today. Also, certain idiotic misconceptions abound, which will probably not  be helpful to most people -- that in order to satisfy a woman, for example,  a man should be rich and have a penis roughly a foot long. Also, certain  cultural assumptions are made which may strike some readers as odd, but  which in fact are very telling -- for example, in the period and location  when this book was written, fat women were considered very erotic. Hearing  a man tall about how he adores his wife's double-chin is rather amusing (in  this sense it makes a good introductory study towards ideals of beauty as  one finds in Wolf's &quot;The Beauty Myth&quot;), and lets one see that  contemporary idea of beauty are not by any means universal. Another  interesting aspect of the book was the notion that sex is an important and  decent part of one's life as it is given one by god. The author was  obviously Islamic and this shows over and over again, but unlike in  Christian writings of the same period, sex is portrayed as something  beautiful to be shared as a gift from heaven and not as a &quot;dirty  secret&quot;. This is really quite refreshing -- in the west, we still  suffer from this lamentable malady today. The Sheik also takes it for  granted that women enjoy sex as much as men, and places a strong emphasis  on female satisfaction; something that only recently has become  fashionable. On the negative side, the chapters on beastiality and  tribadism were left out in Burton's translation -- necessary considering  the time in which he lived, but an omission which nevertheless leaves the  book incomplete. As a study in cultural values, it is quite interesting, as  a sex manual, it is obviously dated and could use much improvement --  modern ones are much better. Depending on what you are looking for, it may  be an interesting read, but still comes across as rather dull; it won't  replace the Kama Sutra anytime soon.	2000-05-31
US	50717925	R201CTWF7Y5GGC	068480073X	644725873	Failing At Fairness: How Our Schools Cheat Girls	Books	5	9	13	N	N	An Important Contribution	This book should be required reading for all teachers and educators of every sort. A very detailed view of how schools cheat girls by marginialising their roles in the classrooms of America. What makes this  book so good, however, is that there are some potential solutions  available; that is not to say that this book really has THE answers, but it  is a step in the right direction. The statistics regarding the prefromance  of females at all-girl schools are impressive, and may be of importance,  since co-ed instituions often seem to neglect girls to a greater degree,  but this only seems a temporary solution, as the workforce itself is co-ed,  and females must get used to operating in such environments. The main thing  that is necessary is for the educators to get educated themselves in what  is going on; it seems all too likely that the most of the teachers who are  doing these things are not even aware of it. If useful strategies are  taught to future teachers as to how to combat gender bias, schools in the  future may be a great deal fairer of their treatment of all students.	2000-05-31
US	50717925	RJDMB3MHHS4JP	0312014287	596731032	The Female Member: Being a Compendium of Facts, Figures, Foibles and Anecdotes About the Loving Organ	Books	1	2	2	N	N	Boring	I am not sure what exactly I expected when I picked up this tome. It was supposed to be a light-hearted look at women's genitalia. What exactly that means I don't know. But what it was was a boring series of anecdotes that  somehow all revolved around sex, none of which were entertaining,  interesting or funny in the least. It is not a &quot;dirty&quot; book, but  there is not much here. A little apocyphal anecdote about the women Hitler  slept with and their ensuing bad luck is the highlight of the book, so you  can imagine how tantalising the rest of it is. Save your money.	2000-05-31
US	50717925	R2VSTK6O64RSH4	0806905859	425029158	Strange Vanishings (Strange but True Series)	Books	2	6	6	N	N	Nice, But Not That Interesting	This is one of Colin Wilson's worst books. It has a catalogue of various mysterious disappearances from all over the world. This is mildly interesting in itself, but at the same time, most of these incidents, like  the case of the &quot;Mary Celeste&quot; are so well-known that there is  scarcely a need to reiterate them here. Also, the style of the book is  fairly dull, as opposed to the majority of this author's work. i suspect  that this book, as the others in this series, are really intended for  intelligent children rather than adults. Also slightly cloying is the  author's tendency to try to create a mystery where there really is none, or  where a very simple explanation may be had. This does not improve the book,  as there are more than enough disappearances which do indeed seem strange.  Nevertheless, Wilson does manage to include several lesser-known  disappearances which is the main reason for getting this book. It may be a  quite interesting addition to a middle-school library, but is definitley  not for those who are seriously interested in the paranormal.	2000-05-24
US	50717925	R26E715FNACH9B	1862042039	632898387	Tracks in the Psychic Wilderness: An Exploration of Remote Viewing, ESP, Precognitive Dreaming, and Synchronicity	Books	2	1	4	N	N	The Truth -- As Dull As Possible	This book lets us in on the truth of the government's STARGATE project; a project to investigate the reality od remote viewing, dream telepathy, and synchronocity. The author talks of the success of a great many of the  experiments that were undertaken, but his writing style leaves a lot to be  desired. The way he records the experiments make them seem as dull as  dishwater, and more statistics would have been appreciated, but it is  mildly interesting for the subject matter.	2000-05-11
US	50717925	R2F4NM32O9MZNE	0809245248	444956849	The Encyclopedia of Unsolved Mysteries	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Excellent Survey of the Weird	The greatest part of this book is the introductory essay by Wilson, delineating hos opinions on paranormal subjects. The rest of the book is an interesting look at many of histories mysteries. The purely historical  stories were written by Damon, Colin's son, and the more paranormal ones  are coved by Colin himself. Unlike many such books, this tome covers some  of the more obscure topics that one rarely hears discussed. The Grey Man of  Ben MacDhui, Twins, The Shroud of Turin, the &quot;real&quot; Mona Lisa,  the appearnace of Joan of Arc after her death, the original Dr.  Frankenstein, and so on. One would like to know how much of this stuff  Wilson actually takes seriously and how much is just him amusing himself  and keeping an open mind, but he does so much so very well in this book,  that it;s hard not to like it. Well-written and spellbinding.	2000-05-11
US	50717925	RD179U3F4I9GJ	0072122668	801012875	A+ All-In-One Certification Exam Guide	Books	5	11	11	N	N	All You Need	This book is really all you need to pass the A+ Exam. It isparticularly strong in the Core Service Technician area, but a littlebit weak on the DOS/Windows protion of the exam. There is way, way more here than is needed to pass the A+ Exams, but it makes an excellent guide for troubleshooting even after the exams have been passed. All the same, you may want to wait until the tests are upgraded before testing; Windows 3.x and Windows95 are still included on the test, which is rather silly now that we have Windows98, Windows NT, and Windows2000 out. The book is so large that review is difficult, and the questions provided at the end of each chapter are nothing whatsoever like the ones on the exam, so you may need to invest in some testing software as well. The CD asks you to pay more money before you get full access to it, which is kind of a dirty trick. All the same, this book can't be beat for the sheer amount of information and detail that is in it. Caveat: it may not be best to start out with this book -- it is really not for beginners are those with no experience under the hood of a PC. A more basic book may be in order before feeling comfortable with identifying the varying types of expansion slots and so on. But on the whole a great book.	2000-05-11
US	50717925	RFB6V6OVS4IBY	0870540688	563845332	Howard Phillips Lovecraft: Dreamer on the Nightside	Books	2	4	11	N	N	Look At Lovecraft From One of His Closest Friends	A look at the life and times of Howard Phillips Lovecraft by Frank Bellknap Long, one of his closest friends and fellow writer. Long discusses his meetings with Lovecraft, Lovecraft's marriage, his homage to Poe and  Dunsany, and his ideas about literature as well as his unwavering atheistic  materialist philosophy. Long obviously is suffering from hero-worship to a  great degree here and is not very objective, but it is still worth reading  for anyone interested in macabre literature.	2000-05-11
US	50717925	R1UHW663BJ2L4Y	0915490021	437284601	Lovecraft at Last (Miskatonic University Classics ; V. 1)	Books	4	20	20	N	N	Informal Look At The Master of the Macabre	This book consists of a series of letters exchanged by Howard Phillips Lovecraft and Willis Conover, a 12-year-old boy at the time, in 1936 and 1937. It gives us a surprisingly relaxed and informal view of Lovecraft.  Included is one of Lovecraft's poems, Homecoming, which was later published  in his &quot;Fungi From Yuggoth&quot;, his ideas on how the short story  must be written, and a general discusssion of topics that interested him.  He syas bluntly here the the Necronomicon was a book that he made up, and  he goes to a great deal of trouble to answer Conover's questions in an  intelligent and mature manner (I wonder how many other writers would have  shown as much consideration to a 12-year-old child?). Also, he discusses  his economic situation, &quot;Weird Tales&quot; magazine, his love of the  eighteenth century, his critical view of his own work, and various topics  that other writers have talked to him about. included are several pictures  as well as the letter that Lovecraft's aunt wrote to Conover upon his death  of stomach cancer. A very intimate look at the father of modern horror  literature.	2000-05-11
US	50717925	RDOPF1VV827X5	0684177838	337499685	The Beatles on Record	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Background On The Songs	This book contains every Beatles' song ever recorded and gives a short write up about who wrote that particular song, the instruments used and the background behind it. The book also includes a chapter about artists who  tried to pass their own work off as that of the Beatles. very intereting  for musicians and music historians.	2000-05-11
US	50717925	R1VX44NS5P55T1	0880014296	222723523	The Man Who Died	Books	2	7	23	N	N	Kind of Silly	This is D.H. Lawrence at his hobby horse again. He gives a portrayal of the risen Jesus after the crucifixion who is tired of life . . . weary of it all, with the life force at an all-time low. What can save him? Sex, of  course. What else? It's the same old song-and-dance. Lawrence seems to  think that the answer to all of life's problems is sexual union, which  makes about as much sense to me as regarding vegetable curry as the meaning  of life. Sex has it's place, to be sure, but I don't understand the primacy  that Lawrence ascribes to it in each and every one of his novels. In  certain instances, sex can revive a sense of purpose or ebbing energy, but  it cannot and will not aid anyone in a sense of world-weariness. If  attempted it will just be like trying to give live into a dead horse. It  would probably only make one feel all the more disgusted with existence  rather than giving one a sense of rejuvenation, as Sartre so adequately  demonstrates in his &quot;Nausea&quot;. All, in all, i felt the whole  attempt was kind of silly. The Christians will get mad, the Lawrencians  will love it, but it is really just another testimony to one man's  inability to make sense of live in anyway other than genital terms.	2000-05-10
US	50717925	R2EGWVQNTGQEZW	0449905381	834648292	Love Poems by Women: An Anthology of Poetry from Around the World and Through the Ages	Books	2	2	6	N	N	Not Really &quot;Love&quot; Poems	I was disappointed with this volume. The title said implied that these were &quot;love&quot; poems, but it seems that the most of them were poems about what jerks males were. Although I am sure that many, if not most,  males are jerks, writing a poem about it does not really make it a love  poem. Nevertheless, it was quite interesting to see what a great many women  really feel about the men in their lives. One plus is that poems were  included from many different times and cultures that allows one to get a  broader perspective on the subject, however.	2000-05-10
US	50717925	R2ND2OWKWVY0YH	0844237957	107524169	Hindi (Teach Yourself)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Best Book For Learning Hindi	This is the best book for learning Hindi that I have come across. It may be a bit much for the absolute beginner, but it uses the Devanagari alphabet throughout, which aids in learning the language, and forces you to  use what you have learned. Grammar and vocabulary are covered in detail and  many conversations are recorded on the accompanying tape. This book  contains the complete structure of the language. After this, all you need  to do is to build up your vocabulary and you're ready for India!	2000-05-10
US	50717925	R1PQN0EBGXYU1	0688012531	907394845	Life at Death	Books	5	31	35	N	N	First Scientific Study of NDE's	This is the first scientific study of the Near Death Experience. It is like a breath of fresh air after the anecdotal accounts of men like Raymond Moody. There is a statistical analysis of the aspects of the NDE, and some  of the conclusions are rather surprising, but the small sample size is  rather upsetting. With the prevalence of NDE's around, it seem rather silly  to only use 100 people in the sample. At any rate, let's hope that this  book will be encourage other researchers to look at the Near Death  Experience a little more citically.	2000-05-10
US	50717925	R29PNCFLIHGJPM	1885983018	342837392	Hell	Books	3	4	12	N	N	An Existentialist Novel	How can a novel be based on a man who peeps on other people through a hole in his apartment wall? Read this book to find out. The protagonist is an isolated man who presents a great many of the problems of modern  existentialism in a nutshell. Colin Wilson used this book as the starting  point for his &quot;Outsider&quot;, and one can easily see why. The  protagonist is a perfect example of the outsider. Unfortunately, he is not  a particularly intelligent or perceptive outsider, and this detracts from  the book. but on the whole, a great analysis of the human condition in the  modern world.	2000-05-10
US	50717925	RYJJL11NSWTWP	0275952827	207591391	Reincarnation and Biology: A Contribution to the Etiology of Birthmarks and Birth Defects (2 Vols.)	Books	5	36	38	N	N	Most Convincing Study of Reincarnation Ever Done	This is the most convincing study of reincarnation that hasever been undertaken by anyone. It provides page after page of genuinephysical evidence of the transmigration of souls. One of the things that one notices over and over again is that the physical injuries that have occurred in past lives are often likely to take the form of some sort of bodily peculiarity in the next life, such as the man who had been killed by a shotgun blast in a civil war battle, and whose next incarnation had a birthmark of exactly similar proportion and location as the wound. This is of far more value than the research into NDE's, I think, because of the physical evidence gathered. Although, it is impossible to absolutely prove such a thing, there are far too many well-documented cases for all of them to be passed off as merely coincidence. An excellent book for all those interested in the subject despite the outrageous price. Check in university libraries for this one like I did . . .  unless you feel that you absolutely NEED to own this one.	2000-05-10
US	50717925	R17FQ60M7MZLS1	0789444275	433731089	Hugo Language Course: Hindi In Three Months	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Great Starter For Basic Hindi	This book seems to be meant primarily for travelers who need some basic street Hindi to be able to communicate with native speakers easily. The Devanagari alphabet is ignored entirely, and grammar is not emphasised any  more than is necessary. What the book does give you is a very solid and  basic grounding at basic communication skills. The conversations on the  tape are very useful in practical situations such as at the airport,  marketplace or so on. But the book doesn't get very in depth, so if you  want anything more than a casual introduction to spoken Hindi, you will  need additionall resources. but as a starter course, this book can't be  beat!	2000-05-10
US	50717925	R2K64LZF11IKGQ	0393969975	846848903	DIV, Grad, Curl, and All That: An Informal Text on Vector Calculus	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Best Intro to Vector Analysis	If you want to learn vector analysis, this is the book to get. It covers the basics of vector calculus, inlcuding surface integrals, the divergence and curl of vector fields and gradient operators, as well as Stokes and  Green's Theorem. Unfortunately, there is no real material here on tensors,  which would have been helpful, but for all of the hopelessly confused math,  physics, and engineering students, this item is a godsend. I used it to  teach myself the subject while my professors were busy confusing me. A very  clear, lucid and amusing introduction. Should be required reading for  aspiring engineers and physicists.	2000-05-10
US	50717925	R3TYFG4YKCU4BW	0804108323	383467872	Closer to the Light: Learning from the Near-Death Experiences of Children: Amazing Revelations of What It Feels Like to Die	Books	5	42	48	N	N	Thought-Provoking	This is undoubtedly one of the most impressive studies about NDE's available. What makes this book so interesting is the amount of detail that the children have reported about their NDE's as well as certain items that would seem very peculiar if it were just a defensive reaction of the mind  to something too terrible to contemplate. For one thing, most children  mentioned that in their NDE, they were NOT children, but fully grown  people. This is an extremely odd phenomena -- it would seem that if this  were some sort of generated phantasy that the children would be seeing  themselves as they are, but without being ill, but this is not the case at  all. This forms one of the most convincing aspect about the experiences.  And while an adult may be able to &quot;guess&quot; what may happen in  surgery, it is unlikely that a child would be able to do so, thus giving  more credence to the notion of the out-of-body-experience. A fascinating  book.	2000-05-09
US	50717925	R2L8T9TFHVM3F1	0415110874	940786129	Colloquial Hindi: The Complete Course for Beginners (Colloquial Series)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Great Intro to Spoken Hindi	An excellent book for beginners, like the title implies, it is mainly a course in Colloqial Hindi, and almost omits the Devanagari syllbary entirely. There is only one chapter on it, but that chapter is very helpful all the same. The tape that comes with the book is a necessary element; it  is integrated with the exercises in the book quite nicely, so make sure you  get the cassette as well.  The romanisation scheme is weird, but it's not  too difficult. As an introduction to spoken Hindi, this can't be beat. For  a better knowledge of the Devanagari syllabary, I would recommend Snell's  &quot;Teach Yourself Hindi&quot;.	2000-05-09
US	50717925	RVEF6LG1X3VZB	0837102731	365097693	The Stature of Man	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Study of the Vanishing Hero	This book, also, known as &quot;The Age of Defeat&quot;addresses the decline of the hero in modern literature. Wilson tracesthe development of the hero from the romantic age to the 1950's (whenthe bookk was originally published) and attempts to relate the decline of the value of the hero in modern literature to the value that modern man places on itself and its efforts to acheieve greatness. Sartre's notions of freedom are discussed as well as Camus, Miller, Huxley, Dosteoevsky and T.S. Eliot in relation to the falling opinion of modern authors on the worth of human life and the effect that this has on the present age. As is usual with Wilson, he does an excellent job of posing the problem, but there is very little attempt to do anything about it. Nevertheless, the attempt is made and an analysis of the causes of the problem are made clear so that future artists will have a better point of departure than the self-pitying, defeatist literature of the 20th century.	2000-05-09
US	50717925	R2BA9VMR2TZ1WZ	0911104577	210675330	Soap: Making It, Enjoying It	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Excellent Introduction	This is THE book to get if you want to learn how to make soap. It takes you throught the process step by step, and inlcudes a wealth of recipes, troubleshooting tips, and historical soap trivia. Measurements, tools needed, time, temperature . . . the works. This is all that the amateur  saponifist will ever need. It is also the only soap book that I have ever  seen that gives recipes for making two dozen bars of soap, rather than 20  dozen, like most other books. An excellent value.	2000-05-09
US	50717925	R3NSFW0UE1R29S	0060663715	848970811	Mormon America: The Power and the Promise	Books	4	13	26	N	N	Fair View of the Mormons	This is an excellent book for both Latter-Day-Saints as well as those outside the fold. It deals with the history of the Mormons as well as their beliefs and practices. Their are chapters dealing with the secret ritauls  and their Masonic origins, polygamy (which continues to be practiced by a  minority of Mormons today despite the threats of excommunication), Mormon  business practices, history, the Book of Mormon, families, beliefs,  lifestyle, peculiarities, tithes, splinter groups, discipline, central  control and so on. The authors do their best to remain objective and  present the facts as they are without judging them one way or the other,  allowing the reader to judge for themselves. I think that most Mormons will  not like this book as it has ample evidence of the corrupt history of the  church as well as many of the more unsavoury aspects of Mormonism. All the  same, the authors do not dismiss the faith and try to emphasize the good to  be found in it as well as the sillier aspects. A bit greater discussion of  Mormon theology would have been appreciated, as the historical aspects of  any religion are largely irrelevant to the religious life of contemporary  adherents, but on the whole, an excellent read for heathens like me and  Latter-Day-Saints as well.	2000-05-08
US	50717925	R1FM8GC14VME69	0912365544	330642861	Field Guide to the Sasquatch (Sasquatch Field Guide Series)	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Small But Informative	The thing that makes this book unusual is the inclusion of maps of where Sasquatch has been sighted. Not much new information will be found for anyone seriosuly interested in the Sasquatch. A small synopsis of the pros  and cons about Sasquatch is included as well as a method of diecerning  their tracks from those of bears as well as a list of sighting in  California, Oregon, and Washington, including &quot;Jacko&quot;, the only  Sasquatch to ever have been captured. The small price is worth it for the  maps, but there is really nothing new here.	2000-05-08
US	50717925	R1AVYELNPBL3GS	0374525188	315724223	Housekeeping: A Novel	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Wonderful Look At A Genuine Free-Spirit	This is a beautiful, almost poetic book about a misfit and free-spirit. The story line is not the most probable, I must admit, but the characters are very interesting and genuine and the author's attempt is to describe  the spirit of a genuinely free person. Reading this book is an experience.	2000-04-28
US	50717925	R1RR6H370OTC2C	0140277447	803730078	The Rape of Nanking: The Forgotten Holocaust of World War II	Books	2	118	209	N	N	Not As Good As I Had Hoped	I finally read this book after hearing so much about it, but I was greatly dissapointed by what I found. The main ideas that are expressed in the book are 1) That the Japanese people are butchers, who place little value of the  sanctity of life because of a strong military tradition, and 2) That the  &quot;Rape of Nanjing&quot; was never acknowledged first by the Japanese,  and second, by the rest of the world. Neither of these ideas are valid.  Chang does an excellent job of detailing the graphic murders of so many  people and of enlightening us on the depravities of human bahaviour. What  she does not provide is any sort of tenable explanation for it, either in  terms of individual psychology or the mechanics of groups. the Japanese  have a strong military tradition that emphasises ruthlesness and the nihil  value of human life, do they? And the Chinese don't? Remember the cultural  revolution? how many people were murdered in that little farce? And what of  the &quot;liberation&quot; of Tibet and the murder of the 15 th Dalai Llama  (a six-year old boy)? thanks to the Chinese &quot;liberation&quot; of  Tibet, the seat of Tibetan culture is now in India, while Tibet is overrun  with the Red Army. Russians? 40 million dead in the Stalinist purges.  Nazis? Six Million dead. Americans? The number of American Indians murdered  and blacks enslaved is still not known. Spanish? But need I go on? the sort  of savagery that the Japanese visited upon Nanjing was not uniqely Japanese  . . . it is all-too human, to use a phrase of Nietzsche's. What Change did  not ask was a very disturbing question to all of us (particularly the  finger-pointers): &quot;Under what circumstances could I have been among  those who engaged in such atrocities?&quot; The &quot;what&quot; of what  occurred is admirably dealt with; the &quot;why&quot; remains a mystery.  And she goes as far as to compare the massacre at Nanjing to the Holocaust.  This is ridiculous. 800, 000 dead cannot compare to 6, 000, 000 dead, to  say nothing of the different sizes of the respective opoulations involved.  I am not saying that it is OK to kill even a single person; just that the  effect that the Nazi Holocaust had upon the Jews was a far greater threat  to their people than was the effect of the massacre at Nanjing to the  Chinese. A substantial proprtion of the Jewish people were annihilated; if  the Nazi threat were left unchecked, they would have been eliminated  entirely. The future of Chinese culture was not threatened by the Japanese  attack. ironically the gravest threat to Chinese culture was Mao -- a  Chinese himself who obviously felt that human life had no value (at least  OTHER humans' lives). This is part of what happens in war. And what nation  . . . what people, has not engaged in war. innocent people die, children  are butchered. If you don't like it, put an end to war. There is no other  solution. This means aggression that comes from home as well as from  abroad. And the effect of this writing? Look at the other reviews. One  reader even suggested that the dropping the atomic bomb on Japan was  deserved. Of course, that did not kill any innocent or undeserving people.  Remember that it was not the Japanese people who made the decision to enter  WWII, but the emperor. Also, the notion that this atrocity was unknown to  others and unadmitted by the Japanese is untrue. the Japanese HAVE admitted  this. But what can they do? They cannot resurrect anyone. the atrocity was  mentioned in the move &quot;Pearl&quot; as well as in one of Auden's poems.  How then is it unknown. Change also has, it seems, a very liberal notion of  what history is, using whatever photographs seem bloody enough. Although  the massacre undoubtedly happened, it has not had as big an impact on  western history as the Holocaust for good reason, as I have desribed above.  Read the book, but do so with great discrimination.	2000-04-28
US	50717925	R1Q425B3BAJNQW	0553274848	732355520	Life After Life	Books	3	8	12	N	N	Interesting Look At NDE's	This is a fascinating look at a poorly-understood phenomenon. the author tries to give an abstract model of the accounts of many people who have come close to death or who have been &quot;clinically&quot; dead for some  time. He mentions the characteristics that any NDE's tend to be a subset  of: Out-of-body experiences, going through the tunnel, meeting beings of  life, seeing dead relatives, the loud ringing sound, and so on. Very little  speculation is done here (and I think that is for the better), but rather  the existential aspects are emphasised.  Rather than impressing me with the  possibility of life after death, the book seemed to mark upon me the  untapped potantials of the human mind, which are just beginning to be  learned about. the book will do little to convince any serious-minded  reader of the actuality of life after death, which is a good thing, I think  . . . when dealing with such matters, I do not think one should rely on a  book, but on direct experience. So I do not believe that the reality of  &quot;only life&quot; can ever be scientifically proven. Nevertheless, a  study of such matters may provide a valuable psychological asset in the  study of human beings. For a more detailed and scientific look, please  refer to Ian Richardson's and Kenneth Ring's research.	2000-04-28
US	50717925	R27CP18SZB84L9	089281747X	518027856	Creepy Crawly Cuisine: The Gourmet Guide to Edible Insects	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Great Recipes, But Kind of Improbable	This book contains some great recipes with a south-of-theborder-flavour, but all the same, you may find some of these bugs a tad bit exotic . . . where in the world can you get a half-pound of tree-hoppers anyway? So this might be a bit much for the novice without special resources, but on the  whole is well worth the money.	2000-04-27
US	50717925	R17ZY6SJJP1TOF	1884365205	755354949	The Anti-Christ	Books	5	110	133	N	N	Excellent Translation	This is Nietzsche's most vigorous work; it conains in little over one hundred pages, a summary of his later philosophy, and as such, should probably be read after all of his other works if one means to avoid misunderstanding what Nietzsche is saying. He portrays Christianity in gory  detail as the religion of revenge, dishonesty, small-mindedness and pity  which it is, and a leading cause of the west's descent into nihilism. (A  reading of this book almost forms a mini spiritual biography of  western  civilisation of the last three centuries). The adherence to a religion like  Christianity forms a sort of enslavement to an outdated meaning system thus  causing anyone with a scrap of intellectual integrity to lie to theirselves  as a means of supporting a bankrupt world-view and  while appropriate for  Zarathustra's &quot;last men&quot;, is death for all higher types, and had  waged a bitter war against all manner of vitality, stregnth and honour  which are the hallmarks of die ubermensche. He talks of the  psychology of  the priest and the natural hatred of science that they all possess as well  as the slave morality and cowardice that Christianity promotes, but for all  the vim that the book possesses, it is not a very scholarly work, and  contains many errors. Nietzsche understandably finds it difficult to  restrain himself, but this gives the work a sort of amateurish tone.  Mencken has done a wonderful job here -- all the more because he had a deep  appreciation for Nietzsche -- the man and his work. For those who cannot  understand Nietzsche's &quot;hatred&quot; of Christianity, I would  recommend a very thorough reading of the Geneology of Morals, which goes  into much greater detail and is much more scholarly and will provide better  insight into the anti-Chrsitian perspective. One of the jewels of modern  literature.	2000-04-27
US	50717925	R3A0AOJR9YCCPQ	0782125476	734665270	Network+ Study Guide (1st Edition)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent Study Guide	I passed the Network+ Exam with a 97 after one month of studying with this book. if you want to get certified, this is the book to use.	2000-04-14
US	50717925	R21PNBHYROGL3O	0782126383	674427316	I-Net+ Exam Notes	Books	5	0	0	N	N	All You Need To Pass The Exam	This is the only book that you need to read to get your i-Net+ Certification from CompTIA. The CD-ROM contains almost the exact questions that are on the exam itself. About a quarter of this stuff is a reprise of  what was found in the Network+ Study Guide by the same author, but it goes  on to detail areas such as types of servers, e-commerce, security, and  topics not covered on the Network_ exam. A must-read for anyone who wants  to ace the test. After one week of studying this book, I netted an 87 on  the exam.	2000-04-14
US	50717925	R1IDNA5ZQPNA12	0517595370	728095272	Take Me Home: An Autobiography	Books	3	14	16	N	N	First Hand Look At A Modern-Day Poet	This is an excellent book in Denver's own words about his life. And as all of Denver's material, it is very honest and allows one a rather intimate portrait of him. After reading this book, one comes away feeling that one was fortunate enough to know Denver personally. A good overview into his  life and career and tha backgrounds of some of his better songs are given  as well as his passion about ending world hunger and other charitable  projects that he gave so much of his time to. One caveat though: he does  not prtray himself as a hero, like so many of his fans try to fashion him;  he reveals himself not only as a decent man in many respects, but one who  had no problems whatsoever with cheating on his wife with impunity nor  using any convenient drug that came within reach, and he reveals only a  very limited understanding of himself. But it aslo a picture of a man who  was constantly struggling to overcome his shortcomings and who was making  real strides in his life before he was killed just a few years later.	2000-03-23
US	50717925	R2BFNDWKKWQA88	0872431630	354617446	The Golden String: An Autobiography	Books	4	41	52	N	N	One of the World's Greatest Spiritual Autoiographies	This book is a very truthful look at one man's struggle to find the meaning of life. It is a fascinating look at a very complicated and sensitive individual. He describes his spiritual journey from agnostic to Roman Catholic monk in candid detail. He details his early agnsoticim, his  epiphany during his final year at Oxford, his friendship with C.S. Lewis,  his Waldenesque experiment. his pantheistic pagan nature worship along with  the poets who he was inlfuenced by and finally his discovery of the  orthodox Christian tradition, rebellion against rationality and journey to  India. Griffiths reveals himself to be an unusually ecumenical man, finding  wisdom in the Gita, Dhammapada and Dao de King as well as the gospels. he  makes no attempt to gloss over the inconsistencies in the gospels, but  intimates how they echoed the things that he had come to believe  independently of the Bible. The main fault of the book was that his  eventual conversion to orthodoxy seemed to be somewhat improbable -- we are  still left wondering how it is that such a man was eventually able to  reconcile the butchery and savagery in so much of the Bible as well as much  of the moral corruption with the mystical god that he claims to have known.  he also identified the Catholic church with the &quot;mystical body of  Christ&quot; (Hooker) but fails to reconcile this with the church's history  as one of the most brutal and repressive institutions in western history.  He mentions that the 12th century was the height of human intellect and  creativity, that Giotto and the medeival thinkers and artists were far  superior to those of the renaissance (which he absurdly regards as the  &quot;beginning of the decline&quot; of human acheivement) without giving a  very good notion as to why he thinks this. The problem of his conversion  was really still a mystery after I had finished the book -- it just didn't  seem to fit somehow. Readers may do well to keep in mind that this book was  written while he was in his late 40's and that he still had not assimilated  the wisdom that he was to learn in his 40+ years in India -- this book,  therefore, is a rather immature work, but is essential readers for all  interested in modern religion, mysticism or comparative religion. I  personally found this book of more value than Augustine's  &quot;Confessions&quot;. I think you will too.	2000-03-23
US	50717925	R1FSJQNT2ZS8D	0060675322	693359168	Why Christianity Must Change or Die: A Bishop Speaks To Believers In Exile A New Reformation of the Church's Faith & Practice	Books	3	26	41	N	N	Trying To Save A Dead Horse	I can respect Spong's efforts to a certain degree, but what I don't understand is his inane attachment to Christianity. What he says for the most part makes sense, but he seems to insist on saving Christianity from  it's own foibles. He is not, like some suggested, an atheist, but his newer  views seem more Buddhist than Christian in nature, and few, if any,  Christians will be able to accept his ideas. The problem is, once you take  away all of the superstition and butchery and irrelevancies in the Bible,  what's left?  How honest can you be in referring to yourself as a  &quot;Christian&quot; when you reject nearly all that makes a Christian a  Christian? It seems as absurd to me as the Satanists who, if given the  chance, will tell you that they are really atheists but simply call  themselves Satanists. What's the point? Spong seems emotionally committed  to a faith which he has intellectually outgrown. I think his efforts at  saving Christianity are ultimately doomed . . . we must read the Bible  symbolically rather than literally . . . OK, but how can this redeem the  fact that the god of the old testament is an absolute butcher with no more  morals than a common murderer? How can the historical aspects be read in  such a manner? On the chapter on life after death, he never mentions NDE's  or Ian Richardson's work, he never makes the slightest allusion to the  mystical paths, which seem to be one of the few avenues open to the  thinking person, so what's left? Hopefully the newer generations won't feel  so imprisoned by the faith that they were raised in. Christianity was for  another world and now it is dying to allow a more relevant and deeper  scheme of meaning for the modern world . . . let it go.	2000-03-14
US	50717925	R1CEI231NWPVDR	0811212939	653332182	Thoughts on the East (New Directions Bibelot)	Books	2	5	8	N	N	Nice, But Not Much Depth	This little book was very interesting, but it lacked depth. Merton lets us in on some very surprising information, for example, he was planning to take a Tibetan guru to learn Tibetan Buddhist Tantric meditation  techniques. he comments on Sufiem, Zen, Taoism, Hindooism, and Buddhism  with great eloquence, although his style is a bit dull. Even so, it is a  wonder that he wasn't excommunicated for his ecumenicism. Few Christians  that I know of would be so willing to look with an open heart and mind into  the world of eastern mystical practices without being superior or  condemning. He looks upon these practices with reverence and respect.  Still, it is hard to get much out of such a small book, and little is  really said, either about his own personal struggles or the religions in  question. A nice addition includes his interviews with Llamo Thondup, the  14th Dalai Llama. If you're into Merton, this is a nice book, but it is not  really for everyone.	2000-03-13
