US	50716428	R3BPCZBDVSWMHR	0761135782	506965290	Baseball Prospectus 2005: Statistics, Analysis, and Insight for the Information Age	Books	3	19	58	N	N	Still with a big chip on their shoulders	The Baseball Prospectus covers most major league players, complete with comments and their own type of statistics, emphasizing categories like on-base percentage and slugging percentage, which have become the vital statistics for many in the game.  Their organizational comments try to focus on how teams build smartly, and how others gamble on short term solutions and never get anywhere.  There is much to debate here, but such is the game of baseball that there's always going to be different points of view.     Unfortunately, the arrogant conceit of the statistical people reveals itself; simply go to the entries for Seattle and Oakland.  In the Seattle profile, there is basically an assault on the professional character of Pat Gillick, one of the finest baseball general managers of our era, who is more of a traditionalist.  Because of that, he is unfairly targeted in the Seattle chapter, which is unfortunate.  There is a tendency to suggest that all baseball scouting should simply be done on a statistics sheet, as opposed to the expertise of experienced scouts who actually go and see young ballplayers play.  Gillick believes in that, and he's had great success.  The Baseball Prospectus types scoff at that, instead making a demi-god out of Oakland's Billy Beane.  (who's won exactly zilch so far).    Another thing; the authors denigrate traditional stats like wins and losses for pitchers, and batting average and RBI's for batters.  Tradition means nothing to them.  Baseball isn't just a cold statistical pursuit; instead it has lore and history, and the game on the field isn't played by robots. Sure, there are better measures to evaluate players, but isn't it revealing that these new statisticians can't ever seem to agree on a measure of performance?  There's always a new acronym based on some convoluted formula which seems to go by the wayside a few years later.  But when one talks about RBI's, you have something tangible, something you can compare across the last century.      In closing, go ahead, hit that \\"No\\" button.  I'm just wondering what old time managers like Billy Martin would have thought about all this.  Baseball is all about putting the ball in play, not leaving the bat on your shoulder to draw walks.  Hits are infectious, there are untangibles in baseball like emotion and momentum that don't figure into the equations of the Prospectus-types.	2005-04-17
US	50716428	R13PHY6YINT223	0679776877	237601957	An Empire Wilderness: Travels into America's Future	Books	3	10	10	N	N	Interesting but already dated	In Kaplan's book, he sees the changing nature of cities and suburbs, and it's quite fascinating at times.  The decay of the inner city is contrasted with the \\"pods\\" in the suburbs which stretch on forever (and all look the same).  These city-states have become islands which circle the wagons to keep the problems of the city out.  It's a natural impulse, to want to better oneself and make a better life, but Kaplan explores the downside to this cookie-cutter suburbanization.  The American inner cities are wastelands which once had community and purpose, but now lack hope.  Kaplan explores how this all came about, and where it's going.   <br /> <br />His chapter on Vancouver is meant to be a contrast, with the cosmopolitan racial mix and a thriving downtown and central city.  Still, Vancouver has a growing problem in parts of their cities; their skid row is a nightmare of homeless junkies, so not all is perfect there either. Kaplan correctly points out that in Canada there is no stigma for all income classes to ride the municipal bus, whereas in the U.S. it seems to be a poor people's transportation.   The Mexican chapters also are very interesting. <br /> <br />When I say this book is dated, it's because it was published pre 9/11.  The talk of a Pacific Northwest nation called \\"Cascadia\\", joining up British Columbia, Washington and Oregon isn't about to happen, not in today's current climate when the U.S. has become Fortress America.  Secondly, there may have been talk of a seamless Canada/U.S. border at one time, and Kaplan mentions it in the book, but restrictions are becoming tighter, so there's no hope of European-like border crossings anytime soon either. <br /> <br />Overall an interesting book, some excellent observations on the nature of people and place today, although not everything he predicts will necessarily come to pass.	2005-04-17
US	50716428	R38ABC7RHPZITW	0449003795	469684331	"P" is for Peril (A Kinsey Millhone Mystery, Book 16)	Books	1	4	11	N	N	P is for pre-packaged	I've read a few of Grafton's books, and in the earlier Kinsey Milhone mysteries it all seemed quirky and offbeat.  Now it all seems pre-fabricated, and the worst part of all is the outdated nature of the story.  It's almost as if Grafton wrote all the books in the series in the 1980's and sits back, releasing a formula-ridden sequel every year and counting the money.<br /><br />First of all, get Kinsey a cell phone!  We are now in the 21st century, where is she finding all these phone booths?  (first clue that this was written well before the release date).  She's still driving a 1974 Beetle?  Do those run anymore?  The over-descriptive narrative gets very annoying after awhile as well.  Too much thumbing through index cards, too much of Sue Grafton going through the motions in this feeble \\"effort\\".  I rarely give one star in a review but this one is richly deserved.  Time to find something else for light reading.<br /><br />Edit: Okay, my apologies, this series is frozen in the 1980's.  It doesn't change my rating, this effort is mailed-in.	2005-04-09
US	50716428	R3GZKWCKU4O28B	0786713682	386194723	Keith Richards: Satisfaction	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A different angle on Keith Richards	Satisfaction isn't the rehashed bio that some would call it.  Instead it approaches the subject of Keith Richards from a different perspective.  It gives a good picture of the working class background he came from, especially as his hometown of Dartford was hit hard by the German bombers in WW2.   Richards emerges as a bit of a mother's boy, alienated from his taciturn father, and not particularly interested in school.  Music was a large part of his family from his mother's side, and as hard as it is to imagine, Richards was also a soloist as a boy at Westminster Abbey.  So there's a good background of his childhood and youth. <br /> <br />As Richards met Mick Jagger and Brian Jones, the theme begins, of Richards being the most important part of what became the Rolling Stones.  Certainly the author presents a strong argument; for all the influences he has had, such as Muddy Waters and Chuck Berry, Keith Richards crafted a sound with the Rolling Stones that became unique, and it's impossible to imagine another guitar player who could create such a sound.  Much is written here of Richards' (and Jagger's) single-minded dedication as well, to adapt as necessary to success but never losing the fundamental core of what the band was all about. <br /> <br />The darker side of Richards is explored as well, and certainly Sandford pulls no punches in showing what happens to young men who come into a ton of money.  Richards' drug use nearly wrecked the group in the 1970's, and unlike other writers Sandford rightly stays away from glamourizing any of this.  After reading through this one is amazed that Richards is alive and well in 2005.     <br /> <br />On the downside, the book does tend to cover familiar ground in the second half.  Sandford also has written a book on Mick Jagger, but it's hard to tell since he is given so little credit or mention to the singer here.  As much as Richards crafted the sound of the group, Jagger is just as vital to the group, it should go withoutsaying. <br /> <br />It's interesting to read that while Richards was at the height of his rock and roll lifestyle, with the drugs, his house burning down, the cars he crashed fairly regularly, he still was a homebody who would go to his mother's for shepherd's pie and bangers and mash.  The man who wrote \\"Sympathy For The Devil\\" also has become an old English uncle type in his 60's, and Sandford does a good job describing Keith's change into an elder statesman.   <br /> <br />Overall a good read with some new perspectives.   <br /> <br />	2005-04-02
US	50716428	R37J09H81PFHQ6	1400076099	10533115	The Murder Room (Adam Dalgliesh Mystery Series #12)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	More good Dalgliesh	The Murder Room goes over the usual P.D. James territory; a who-dun-it among a group of people, a mix of professionals and common folk, and the motivations and secrets of all the characters.  James inserts her comments on the nature of our society today as well, especially through working class detective Kate Miskin, who despises the hypocrisy and smugness of the middle class liberals. <br /> <br />Adam Dalgleish is the same as ever; austere, controlled, efficient, and sometimes ruthless.  His second life as a poet always seems implausible to people reading James for the first time, but having read most of the Dalgleish novels it rings true with his character.   There is a subplot with a love interest of Dalgleish's, but the who-dun-it plot is what captures the reader.  James adds her usual twists and turns to keep the reader guessing.  Her novels are always a pleasure to read, even if she does have an obsession with Yale locks.  (Ever read a Dalgleish novel without in depth descriptions of locks and keys?  Well, it wouldn't be the same without that I suppose). <br /> <br />So there's a riveting plot, excellent character development, historical backgrond and a bit of social commentary.  James does it again.	2005-04-02
US	50716428	RXKDKQ9ZHNA3K	0679731725	247754060	The Remains of the Day	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Less is more	Ishiguro writes in a spare style, while crafting memorable characters.  In this book, the character of the butler Stevens is wonderfully drawn.  Stevens contrasts his current situation, as little more than an accessory to an American master, to his glory years as butler to Lord Darlington in the 1930's.  Stevens narrates about that time and the importance of his position, which, as the reader will see, takes precedence over his own happiness.  Lord Darlington's involvement with the appeasement movement in Britain is described by Stevens without judgement; service to his employer takes priority. <br /> <br />Stevens' relationship with the head housekeeper is a major part of this story, and the way in which he denies his own potential happiness, instead maintaining a stiff formality with this woman throughout.  When Stevens does speak of her, it is so well done by the author; the reflective feelings deep inside are shown, but Stevens' loyalty to his duty makes him blind. <br /> <br />The chapter involving Stevens' father, a retired butler now consigned to light duties, is chilling and tragic.  Again, Stevens has such a tight rein on his emotions that the narrative becomes even more powerful.  Ishiguro lets the reader imagine how Stevens must really feel. <br /> <br />Those who've seen the movie will get even more out of the book, although the film was extremely well done, and Anthony Hopkins just nailed the part.	2005-04-02
US	50716428	R3G8LY902B0X4K	1550226649	252686129	Traveling Music : The Soundtrack to My Life and Times	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Both interesting and tedious	Travelling Music starts off strongly, as Peart drives east from Santa Monica east towards Texas, puts Buddy Rich into the CD player, and juxtaposes the music with his surroundings, and also travels into his past, his influences and experiences growing up.  I found the first part of the book fascinating.  Like other road-trip junkies, I enjoyed Peart's interest in details; the roadside places, the geology and the history of the areas he drives through, and his love of the back roads.  <br /> <br />As someone who also grew up in the same era in southern Ontario, I can relate to Peart's upbringing and background, so his autobiographical bits were quite interesting.  Being a non-conformist in a blue collar town in the 60's certainly shaped his outlook, although one of the downsides to this book is that Peart's interest in so many different topics creates a lack of focus. <br /> <br />Not being a Rush fan, being knowledgable about the band itself is mostly irrelevant to the general reader; Peart does go into some of the pitfalls of fame, especially the invasion of privacy.  He writes a lot about his musical influences, and they're quite interesting (even if he never liked the Beatles, which he tends to go on and on about).  He does project a bit of snobbishness, but that's just him, it's his book. You know after awhile that jazz, classical and Nashville country music don't do much for him either.  So be it.   <br /> <br />There is a very tedious chapter-long recap of the 60's, stuff that's been written about a million times, Monterey to Woodstock to Altamont (yawn...)   His African cycling experiences are compelling at times, yet again he tends to go all over the place with his narrative.   <br /> <br />Still it's a decent enough read despite the shortcomings.	2005-02-20
US	50716428	R3BUCRXO6X5Z30	0618119760	624968956	The Saints of Big Harbour: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good storytelling	Small town Nova Scotia is the backdrop for this well-paced novel.  A teenaged boy named Guy Boucher goes through his rites of passage, with an overbearing and bombastic uncle dominating and challenging him.  A chance meeting with a girl at a school dance leads to problems as she just wanted to play around, while Guy becomes obsessed, and soon becomes the victim of false stories and becomes a target.  Meanwhile Guy gets caught up in hockey and boxing, trying to find his way and to show his uncle that he's a man.  <br /> <br />Other characters are interesting here too; the loyal unattractive best friend who clings to her popular pal desperately; the protective and unpredictable older brother; the popular yet intelligent guy who's forgotten about college so he can stay in town with his buddies, and the struggling single mother who has very little joy in her life. <br /> <br />It's pure Canadiana here, you can see the lumberjack jackets and smell the Tim Horton's coffee.  For most of the book it's a fun and engrossing read, and to me it's far superior to overblown CanLit such as Fall On Your Knees.  Still, the pace slackens in the latter third of the book, the plot tends to go all over the place by then.  It's still worthwhile and a fun read.	2004-12-14
US	50716428	R35STAF2QWSQOJ	0385503857	264457638	Oryx and Crake: A Novel (Atwood, Margaret Eleanor)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Bleak even by Atwood standards	Oryx and Crake is an interesting yet bleak look into a future world which follows the character called Snowman. He seems to be the only person around, except for some soulless genetically spliced people who live among him.  In general it's your basic end-of-the-world scenario, with climate change and a ruptured environment as a backdrop.   <br /> <br />Snowman delves into the past, and slowly the novel reveals what happened to the world.  During all this, Atwood inserts references to a future world which is very bleak to say the least.  Internet porn, child prostitution, bubble communities and the anarchic \\"Pleeblands\\" outside of it, genetically modified animals like \\"Pigoons\\" and \\"Wolvogs\\", surveillance everywhere and a general soullessness and cynicism.  None of this post-apocalyptic scenario is overly original, but with Atwood there is always her perceptive style which makes it all seem very believable.  There's usually very little sugarcoating in her novels and this one is no exception. <br /> <br />The character of Snowman/Jimmy is that of an unremarkable \\"everyman\\" narrator, while the characters of Oryx and Crake are revealed slowly.  The Oryx character never took hold for me, she's somewhat of a distraction, although the tale of her inevitable drift into the Thai child-sex world is chilling and disturbing, and Atwood spends a lot of time there.  Crake is a child of technology and there is something sinister in the thought of millions of Crakes coming of age today, downloading, multitasking and deep into an empty technological vaccuum that nonetheless looks like the reality of our future.    <br /> <br />The ending of the book doesn't really ring true, there are too many holes in the plot, but then again the social commentary is what makes this novel interesting.	2004-12-14
US	50716428	R1OUM8FZ5GI03	0385490445	107805179	Alias Grace: A Novel	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Slow going but rewarding at times	It's the middle of the 19th century in post-rebellion Upper Canada, and Grace, the heroine of the story, gets implicated in the murder of a landowner and his mistress.  Grace is a hard character to know; is she a simpleton or cunning?  Is she hiding a huge secret or is she resigned to being wrongfully convicted?  There are other interesting characters, especially the doctor who interviews Grace at length, while at the same time confronting his own demons.  There is so much bleakness shown in the small towns in Upper Canada in this time, the struggles of the poor, especially the fate of Grace's friend who becomes pregnant.  That bleakness is to be expected from an Atwood novel of course.<br />Overall, it was a slowly paced novel which suffered in comparison to Atwood's The Blind Assassin in my opinion.  Still, it is a worthwhile read and well written.	2004-01-28
US	50716428	RFO1W5SGZ7BAJ	0789489678	338654305	Rolling With The Stones	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Holy Grail for the Rolling Stones fan	So much has been written about the Rolling Stones over the years, but as shown in his autobiography Stone Alone, Bill Wyman's accounts carry much weight because he was there.  This massive book is a huge collage of trivia, photos and memorabilia of the band's long reign.  Still, the written content is just as valuable, and Wyman packs every page with inside information and personal observations which makes this priceless.  <br />All the famous and not so famous moments of the Rolling Stones' career are highlighted, and the reader is spared the pretensions of the boring rock critics who usually suck the life out of their subjects.  Particularly enjoyable (as in Stone Alone) are the anecdotes about the early Stones and their unlikely rise to fame.<br />Lots of tidbits all over; for example, Wyman still seems pissed 30 years later about Keith Richards overdubbing the bass on &quot;Happy&quot;.  There's trivia, like the story behind the cover shoot of Get Your Ya-Yas out and Andy Warhol's disapproval of the Love You Live cover, as well as detail like the typical set lists from all the tours.  Ticket stubs and concert posters are everywhere, now if only I could find my 1979 Oshawa concert ticket that's pictured in the book!<br />Wyman still manages to convey the excitement of the whole experience, and its obvious that he loves being an integral part of the Rolling Stones' legacy.	2004-01-28
US	50716428	R16Y3TDV6WZPLF	0679753834	420678567	The Risk Pool	Books	4	5	5	N	N	More of the same good small town stuff	Russo's novels all explore these two-bit towns in the northeast, with faded glories and unrealistic hopes.  The Risk Pool is perhaps the best one I've read.  The relationship between the boy Ned and his reckless father who careens through life breaking all the rules is the theme of the book, but it's so much more.  Russo has the knack of making &quot;ordinary&quot; lives interesting, and for me this book was a real page-turner.  If you've read Mohawk, Nobody's Fool or Empire Falls, you'll settle right into this one.	2004-01-28
US	50716428	R3JG2J1MMRAMEZ	0394528360	741344123	Master of the Senate: The Years of Lyndon Johnson III	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Everything you've ever wanted to know about the U.S. Senate	The third volume of The Years of Lyndon Johnson is a thoroughly researched and detailed account of Johnson's rise to power in the Senate.   From the beginning, Johnson sought the keys to power, seeking out the powerful southern Democrat senators like Richard Russell and slowly becoming their trusted protege; then working his way into the once weak Senate leadership position and making it his own power base.  As anyone who has read the previous volumes, LBJ's most cherished belief was power for its own sake, and Caro illustrates the many ways in which Johnson worked his way up, the way he knew who could help him and who could advance his presidential aspirations.  He is shown as a forceful domineering man who regularly brought subordinates to tears yet shamelessly ingratiated himself to senior senators whose political friendship he coveted.  Johnson is portrayed as one of the most dynamic politicians of his era, but with many negative and deplorable traits as well. <br />This volume delves into the Senate of the 1950's, and Caro brings it to life, with Johnson as the central figure.  It's interesting how such important figures of that era are merely footnotes now; a man like Richard Russell is all but forgotten now, but he was a powerful man who was both an eloquent legislator and at the same time the man who wanted to maintain segregation in the South at all costs.  Other better known people are featured in these pages; Harry Truman, Joseph McCarthy, Hubert Humphrey, Sam Rayburn and Adlai Stevenson to name a few.  <br />At times there is too much Senate and not enough context of the outside world (until the chapters about the rise of the civil rights movement in Montgomery and other places). To be fair, one cannot fault Caro for such focused detail and insight; he has exhaustively explored Johnson's life in three volumes over the last two decades, and the Senate was truly Johnson's home in that era.  In fact, the first 100 pages are devoted to a history of the Senate and the way it had changed by the time Johnson arrived.<BR> <BR>In the first half of the book it is all LBJ, but he becomes almost a secondary figure at times later in the book.  There is so much detail about various bills, backroom deals and subcommittees and the like that it all becomes pretty wearying once you reach page 850 or so.  The previous volume, Means of Ascent, was a sleeker and more interesting narrative overall.  <br />Despite the overlength of this book, it is certainly recommended to those who are interested in the politcal landscape of that era.	2003-04-15
US	50716428	R9499L1UG994E	0345348109	227222206	The Killer Angels: The Classic Novel of the Civil War (Civil War Trilogy)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Superb novel of the Gettysburg battle	The Killer Angels is a novel of an actual event, the battle of Gettysburg, which was the biggest overall clash of the Civil War, and a major turning point.  In this book the views of several characters are shown, most particularly Longstreet of the Confederacy and Chamberlain of the Union.  For those who are familiar with the Civil War, this book sheds some insight into the characters involved, as well as fodder for endless discussion as to how certain moves could have changed the whole battle.  For those not familiar with the details of the war, it is a very informative introduction to it.  It is less about tactics and weaponry and more about the people involved, what they were feeling and how they acted under great adversity.<br />Longstreet is seen as a general who knows that things will turn out badly, and he was ahead of his time in many ways about the changing face of warfare.  Frontal assaults like Pickett's Charge were the byproduct of another era, but such was the success of Robert E. Lee, and the deserved admiration that his soldiers felt for him that it was hopeless that it the results of Gettysburg could have turned out any other way.   Lee is shown to be a compassionate, dignified, yet resolute man, who must get rid of \\"those people\\" in their heavily fortified positions no matter what the cost.<br />Chamberlain is the citizen/soldier who was a professor in civilian life, and finds his Maine regiment at the extreme end of the flank and is in some of the heaviest action.  His fear, his doubts and his bravery under pressure makes him a very human figure.  Others in the novel who are prominent are the Union cavalryman Buford, the British observer Fremantle who is still living in the world of Waterloo; Lew Armistead, who was leading his brigade into battle against the army of his dear friend Hancock, and Pickett who is a flashy roguish figure seemingly out of another era.  There are many debates about the nature of the war and what it was about, and what itmeant to all the principals involved.  For some it was a righteous cause (Chamberlain), for others a defense of states' rights, for others their professional duty (Longstreet).  <br />The movie Gettysburg is based on this novel, and focuses primarily on Buford's first day, Chamberlain on Little Round Top and Pickett's Charge.  The book goes into more detail about other events in the battle, Devil's Den, Culp's Hill etc.    Again, it is presented in a very accessible style, and the final picturesque yet terrible charge by the rebels is a thrilling climax.	2003-03-29
US	50716428	RKMNPF2SOH0T6	1585741167	330276497	The Arctic Grail: The Quest for the Northwest Passage and The North Pole, 1818-1909	Books	5	3	3	N	N	This could be Berton's best	Pierre Berton brings history to life once again in this book.  What separates Berton from so many other writers is that he makes history readable and entertaining.  He brings characters and places to life, as he has done in The National Dream, The Invasion of Canada, Vimy, and so many other books.  In The Arctic Grail, numerous explorers, dreamers and obsessives are shown trying to conquer the hostile environment of the North.  There is a diverse cast of characters here, but it takes a great storyteller like Berton to make them really come alive; men like John Franklin, Robert McClure, Frederick Cook, Robert Peary, Roald Amundsen, Elisha Kane, John Rae, and many others.   Many are not well known today, so it is fascinating to read about them.  First contact with the Inuit and their interaction with the explorers is also a major part of The Arctic Grail. <br />Above all though, the biggest character in the book is the barren ice-clogged Canadian Arctic; the darkness of an icebound winter, the loneliness and desperation of being trapped on an ice floe with little food, the obsessiveness of men like Peary whose claim to be first to the Pole is largely discredited today, and much more.  A terrific book if you can find it.	2003-03-27
US	50716428	R9DQBHOGEG1TW	0553275976	678579754	The Bonfire of the Vanities	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Still relevant in 2003	Bonfire of the Vanities is one of the great page turners of the last half of the 20th century.  Wolfe combines comedy with scathing social commentary, as a blue blooded Wall Streeter takes the wrong exit off the highway and two cultures collide with tragi-comic results.  It was impossible to put this book down, even though it is quite lengthy.  The beleaguered Bronx judge, the girlfriend, the Harlem reverend who thrives on playing the race card for his own greater glory and the slimy reporter are just some of the characters who ring true.  <br />For those who saw the movie, don't let that turn you off.  The whole premise was changed and it was a typical Hollywood bastardization.  Wolfe tried a similar sweep of the cultural landscape in &quot;A Man In Full&quot; but lost his way halfway through that book.  There are no wrong notes in Bonfire; it's a snapshot of New York politcally and culturally in the late 80's, and it's amazing how little has changed in today's world.	2003-03-17
US	50716428	R2B3DA2BQ7XG91	0679757031	263184134	Titan: The Life of John D. Rockefeller, Sr.	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A man who seized the day	Titan is an excellent biography of John D. Rockefeller.  It tells of Rockefeller's early days as the son of a pious mother and travelling con man father in upstate NY.  Early on, Rockefeller had many responsibilities which honed his sharp opportunistic instincts.  Rockefeller was in the right place at the right time when oil was struck in Pennsylvania, and worked his way up until he seized the day by recognizing that the big money was in refining.<br />One problem with biographies of self-achievers who go from rags to riches is that it is hard to translate to the reader how people like Rockefeller achieve when others fail.  Nevertheless, the author does his best to point out the chronology of JDR's rise to great wealth and power and the reasons for it.  The nature of the times had much to do with Rockefeller's ascendancy; the post-Civil War era was a boom time for business and industry, and the so-called robber barons were a natural product of that time.  One sees photos in the book of the oil lands of Pennsylvania in the 1860's and 70's and it is undoubtedly an environmental nightmare, because the drilling was totally unregulated and unrestrained.  In such an atmosphere one could get rich or poor in a hurry.  <br />Once JDR becomes a dominant figure, we see the consolidation of his wealth, his society marriage and his family life as a captain of industry, living in huge estates.  Still, Rockefeller privately remained a restrained man still influenced by his mother's religious ways.  The contrast between his private values and ruthless business instincts is shown, and sheds light on the mentality of the so-called Gilded Age.  The book also explores the world in which his children were raised, much different than his humble beginnings.  John D. Rockefeller Jr. was born in great wealth and so could never live up to his father's legacy, despite his advancement in Standard Oil.<br />Most of all, it is the story of Standard Oil, its rise to the top of the industry, and the changing times which led to anti-trust legislation which broke the monopoly of JDR's empire.  Rockefeller's later years are described as he becomes a seemingly benevolent elder figure who lives well into his 90's.  This biography is an excellent read, and for such a reclusive and private subject, Chernow does his best to capture Rockefeller and his era.	2003-03-14
US	50716428	RB15F5JQ3X15Q	0312421273	647099960	The Corrections: A Novel	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Major family dynamics happening here	Alfred is a retired railroad man who is losing his faculties and hiding in his basement lair.  Enid is his long suffering wife who tries to find happiness in trying to get all of the family back to their midwestern home for Christmas.  Gary, the eldest son, is in a nightmarish marriage to a neurotic woman, with the requisite spoiled kids.  Chip is a failed professor who joins up with a Lithuanian wheeler dealer whose ex-wife he had been sleeping with, and gets involved in a shady scheme.  Denise is a chef who keeps getting involved in destructive relationships.  It sounds like the same old thing, but Franzen has an interesting style and detailed observations that make this different from the usual &quot;dysfunction&quot; kind of novel.  <br />At first I cared very little for the characters and their problems, but Franzen goes off on long tangents that really develop the inner workings of all of them, and one at least enjoys the social commentary and plot twists along the way.  It's sometimes hard to read when it gets too intense , and some of the storylines don't make much sense (some of Denise's affairs, for example).  I wouldn't go as far to say that I wished I could be reading it all again for the first time (as one of the testimonials on the cover said) but it's a pretty good read nonetheless.	2003-03-10
US	50716428	R278558NRS8M9S	0060934913	24249899	Kitchen Confidential: Adventures in the Culinary Underbelly	Books	3	4	5	N	N	He does love himself	Kitchen Confidential is very entertaining at times, as Anthony Bourdain takes the reader into the kitchens of big time restaurants.  It's hardcore cooking done at high speed and great organization despite the apparent frenzy.  There is a particularly interesting chapter devoted to a restaurant man simply known as &quot;Bigfoot&quot;, who is Bourdain's role model; a man who knows what's going on at all times and has exacting standards in the kitchen.  <br />Less riveting is Bourdain's own story moving up in the ranks.  His experiences as a rookie line chef in Provincetown are somewhat amusing, and his time at the CIA (Culinary Institute of America) is a look at the more formal cooking training which Bourdain contrasts with the high octane New York kitchen scene. Other anecdotes seem self-serving, so be advised it's okay to jump ahead; the chapters have different themes and stand on their own.    <br />One isn't shocked by the author's frequent profanity at first, but he goes way overboard with the gratuitous F-words and comes across as very arrogant and juvenile.  He also goes on and on about using cocaine and heroin in younger days, which is totally unnecessary and one wonders why he seems so proud of it.  If you can get past his obnoxious nature this book is still an interesting read.	2003-02-21
US	50716428	R2E60RWTJASPEQ	0394528352	933385853	2: Means of Ascent: The Years of Lyndon Johnson II	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Texas politics LBJ style	This biography covers Lyndon Johnson's career through the 1940's; his setbacks, his confusing war record and most compelling of all, his run for the Senate in 1948 against his unsuspecting opponent Coke Stevenson. One can both be repelled by the skullduggery employed by LBJ in the campaign, and at the same time admiring of his energy and sheer gall. Caro gets right to the nitty-gritty when it comes to ballot-stuffing in south Texas in that era. A dirty business indeed, but that's politics.<br />Robert Caro does a fine job bringing LBJ to life. I don't think he necessarily despises his subject as some here have suggested; Johnson was a product of his time and place, mostly a tireless seeker of votes above all, and Caro's book reflects that. LBJ did everything he had to do to get elected, and certainly dirty tricks were a part of politics well before today's \\"attack-ad\\" era. Nothing has changed much.	2003-02-05
US	50716428	R2HFWE0NBADDSK	0151008116	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	4	13	15	N	N	An inventive journey	First of all, when Pi begins his castaway journey I couldn't put the book down.  The description, the terror, the combination of the various elements interacting with each other was brilliantly done.  I had slowly chugged my way through the opening section, with Pi Patel's life in Pondicherry India as the son of a zookeeper; his observations of how animals are no freer in the wild than they are in zoos, and Pi's flirtations with three religions at the same time.  At this point, it seemed too typical of recent novels, heavy on the philosophy and analysis but lacking in narrative and flow.  This all changed when Pi became a castaway at sea.<br />No spoilers here; I was glad I knew next to nothing about what this book was about before I read it, because it is quite the reading experience.  Others are welcome to decipher all of the symbolism, but to Martel's credit he doesn't make it heavy-handed for those who just want to read for pleasure.  For those who enjoy magical symbolism though, there is plenty here for you.  The mysterious island still has me thinking.	2003-02-05
US	50716428	R3CFIGIV2I7JNZ	0316277371	592795964	A Good Walk Spoiled: Days and Nights on the PGA Tour	Books	4	0	0	N	N	From the elite to the &quot;trunk-slammers&quot;	This book is one of the best books written about the PGA tour; in particular, the different lives of those at the elite level and those struggling to make it.  Those who miss the cut on Friday are the &quot;trunk-slammers&quot;, who drive from tour stop to tour stop, some having to qualify instead of giving an exemption, and tread the fine line between making it big and missing out altogether (as contrasted to the star players with huge sponsorship deals and private jets).  With the competition getting tougher every year, the life of a pro golfer is a struggle, and Feinstein gives much time to those &quot;on the bubble&quot;.<br />The toughest tournament to play in is the infamous Q-school, where a missed putt could cost a golfer a one-year exemption to play on the tour, and Feinstein takes you inside that pressure packed environment.  He also provides great anecdotes about various personalities and tour stops, the optimism of the early tournaments, the heat and pressure of the mid-summer events, and the desperation of the fall tourneys as players scramble to save their very precious tour exemption cards.  His follow-up, &quot;The Majors&quot; is also a good read, but read this to get the full spectrum of the PGA.	2003-01-25
US	50716428	R1M4EF2PLDR0KZ	0385720955	850910906	The Blind Assassin: A Novel	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Very well done	The Blind Assassin takes the \\"novel within a novel\\" idea to new heights; the elderly Iris Chase Griffen writing her record of the past, side by side with her late sister's book \\"The Blind Assassin\\", which is an account of two surreptitious lovers meeting in seedy rooms and eateries, plotting a strange science-fiction/ancient world story.  As well, Iris looks at her slowed-down world of the present, in the fictional Ontario town of Port Ticonderoga.  The three stories are all separate, yet slowly come together in such a skilful and subtle way.  As others have pointed out here, it is also a snapshot of the first half of the 20th century, with two world wars, the Depression and the social realities of the time.<br />After reading a few chapters, one can already savour the good writing and the way in which the story unfolds.  One reviewer in the inset referred to Atwood's \\"dry, avid prose\\".  That sums it up nicely.  I had never been a fan of the one or two books of hers I had read previously but this novel was very impressive.  Atwood comments on the way things were and the way they are now, the social norms, the inequalities, the bitter pills swallowed.  <br />Her depiction of the Griffens (Iris' politician/industrialist husband and his social-climbing sister) comes across as a caricature in some ways but still very believable.  The elusive character Alex Thomas is portrayed vividly, although I found that it was hard to get a good focus on Laura Chase, whose controversial Blind Assassin book casts a shadow over the whole novel.  It's also a minor point that Atwood rightly decries the appeasement policy in the 30's, whereas she herself is part of the same \\"peace at any cost\\" crowd in real life today.   In fairness she does cut beneath the surface and show the hypocrisy of both the left and right, and goes to the heart of the matter always.  In that sense she succeeds where another writer could get dogmatic.<br />A very good read, one of the better novels I have read insome time.	2002-11-14
US	50716428	R4ZHHIA31Y3R7	0345384687	858634254	The Guns of the South	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The South gets some REAL guns	In Guns of the South, a group of South African white supremacists travel back in time to alter the course of history.  Specifically, they provide the AK-47 rifle to Robert E. Lee, and such a modern weapon was bound to change things.  The novel begins just before the Virginia overland campaign of Ulysses Grant in 1864, and the battle of the Wilderness has a different ending.  The book details the scenario of the Confederates getting the upper hand in the U.S. Civil War, and the fallout from that.  <br />Many major figures are portrayed, and despite being somewhat hokey at times, it is a fair and probing depiction of Civil War characters such as Grant, Lincoln, Judah Benjamin, Nathan Bedford Forrest, Jefferson Davis, Ben Butler, and most prominently of all, General Lee himself.  Lee is portrayed as an honorable man who is thrust into roles he does not desire, yet fulfills his duty to the best of his abilities.  <br />The slavery issue is a major theme in the book, as the South Africans (known as the Rivington men, since that fictional North Carolina town is their home base), want to make white domination a world trend that will last into the future.  The post-war scenario creates conflict with that issue, and the whole novel is an intriguing alternative history.<br />The viewpoint of North Carolina sergeant Nate Caudell is another theme in the book, and the view of an ordinary soldier in the midst of the Wilderness campaign is one of the better sections.  So the perspectives of those in power and the common man are both presented.<br />Finally, I have read a lot about the Civil War, but somehow I didn't get the significance of a certain Northerner who moves to the South after the war, and eventually joins their army.  If the name Henry Pleasants means anything to a Civil War reader, he is in this book and you can take a guess at what kind of unique military operation he gets involved in.	2002-10-01
US	50716428	RDEAP7Y7B44H8	0345349571	162225088	A Distant Mirror:  The Calamitous 14th Century	Books	5	1	4	N	N	The Middle Ages come alive!	Barbara Tuchman brings the Middle Ages to life in this fascinating and thorough depiction of the Middle Ages, during the Hundred Years War.  The focus is on France, but it widely covers the background of that time; from the Black Death to the emerging \\"third estate\\" of merchants; from the contradictions of knightly \\"chivalry\\" to the daily living conditions of the common man.   Tuchman illustrates many themes; the dominance of the Church, the great disillusionment in the wake of plague, war and banditry, and the whole mentality of the different classes.  The nobility of the lords and knights is questioned, as brigands roamed France, sacking, pillaging, robbing and extorting.  The treatment of children, women, Jews and heretics is described in detail, and it's not always a pleasant picture.  At the same time, it was a time of change, of mankind becoming more aware, trade and commerce emerging from the darkness of previous centuries, and the seeds of nation-states and standing armies springing forth in the \\"calamitous 14th century\\".<br />Tuchman entertains simply by her great knowledge of the subject as well as her fine writing.  History comes alive and we realize that we truly are looking into a \\"distant mirror\\"; this is the way we were so long ago.  Tuchman is also very thorough and comprehensive in this book, so this might not be for everyone; some might prefer a more condensed version.  Still I heartily endorse this slice of history, it is well written and compelling.	2002-09-07
US	50716428	R2VPQFLB1GP3BR	0805027807	782081606	Revolution in the Head: The Beatles' Records and the Sixties	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Interesting take on the Beatles	Revolution In the Head is a song by song survey and analysis of all the Beatles songs, and the fan will find himself fascinated by all the tidbits and details.  The author shows how the songs were developed, and one leaves this book very appreciative of the &quot;hooks&quot; in their songs, and the undervalued importance of the &quot;middle eight&quot; and the &quot;bridge&quot; in pop music.  One thinks of songs of the last decade of so, and how they contrast with the two and a half minute gems that Lennon and McCartney composed.  Today's songs tend to drone on and on for 5 minutes, with no change of pace, and songs tend to have the whole bag of tricks thrown in right away.  Reading this book was a refreshing antidote, especially playing the Beatles while reading this.<br />The author shows the good and bad, the brilliant mixes, the bad editing and cutting on some songs, especially the earlier ones, and gives credit where credit is due.  He can get a bit too overbearing at times, I happen to love the keyboard solo in &quot;In My Life&quot;, I hardly notice the little flourish at the end of it which the author dislikes.  On certain songs such as &quot;Revolution&quot;, the author dispenses with song analysis altogether and starts writing an essay about the politics and culture of the time.  This I found a bit annoying.  The Beatles were a phenomenon, but as John Lennon once said, &quot;we were just a little band who made it big&quot;.  The music is meant to be enjoyed, from &quot;Little Child&quot; to &quot;Glass Onion&quot; to &quot;For No One&quot;, there's no great social meaning to all this, it's just a rich pop tapestry.<br />Overall, a fascinating book, well worth it for Beatles fans and for those just discovering them.	2002-09-07
US	50716428	R22Q4JD5O2XX7G	0743237188	434448992	Fall On Your Knees (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	7	8	N	N	A male perspective	Fall On Your Knees is the story of a family in the Cape Breton company town of New Waterford.  James is a piano tuner who spirits away the daughter of a Lebanese merchant, and they have 3 daughters.  The eldest has the gift for singing and goes to New York, which is where the turning point of the book occurs.  It's hard to describe without giving away too much of the plot, but it definitely becomes a tale of family secrets, denial, incest, and other themes such as racism and class division.  <br />For the first third of the book, MacDonald paints a convincing portrait of early 20th century Cape Breton.  Unfortunately, she goes overboard in trying to cover too much ground; it might work fine for the criteria of Oprah's book club but the novel just becomes a cauldron of dysfunction.  There is an overload of Catholic imagery; even though it is a vital part of the story MacDonald is relentless with this imagery, too much so.  <br />The characters of James and the daughters ring true to a point, but again, when Frances starts \\"performing\\" at a speakeasy, it is not credible in that time, even if it was the roaring 20's, those scenes are simply not believable.  Lily's long walk in the last part of the book is also not credible, metaphorical as it might be.  The relationship of Kathleen and her friend in Harlem is intriguing, but again it goes too far into implausibility.<br />The last third of the book is very good, many questions are answered, yet there is no effort to tie up all the loose ends in a happy way (which is one of the things I found to be well done).  Many of the secondary characters are quite interesting, the Lebanese family, the Jewish storekeepers, and the black characters who intertwine with James' family.  The novel is well written overall, and despite my reservations and a very slow middle stretch, it was a worthwhile read, even for someone not in the \\"target audience\\".  <br />One more thing, it does get vividly morbid and horrifying in one major incident which dominates this book.  The other reviewers weren't kidding about that.	2002-09-07
US	50716428	R1ZZRXKTYA61EY	0684811073	646280776	Undaunted Courage: Meriwether Lewis, Thomas Jefferson, and the Opening of the American West	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Journey into the unknown	This book has Meriwether Lewis as its focus, and Ambrose shows all the attributes and failings of the explorer.  Lewis and Clark led an expedition up the Missouri River, through Indian country, across the Continental Divide, all the way to the Pacific.  Commissioned by President Jefferson to explore the newly acquired Louisiana Territory, this book foreshadows the future movements of people into lands populated by the wildlife and the natives, and the clash of cultures that would ensue.  Lewis is shown as a man of great zest and perserverance, as well as being a product of his era, arrogant to a fault and possessing the prejudices of the time.<br />The first half of the trip is well detailed, as the expedition gets together, sets out and travels through potentially hostile Sioux country.  The trip was full of triumphs and disappointments as well, and the potential of danger was always there, such as with the incident with the Blackfoot Indians on the return home.  Certainly this is a must read for anyone interested in the opening of the West in the 19th century.	2002-08-31
US	50716428	R2PLBIUFVDDULV	0671691880	662507531	Nixon, Vol. 3: Ruin and Recovery, 1973-1990	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Well balanced with the focus on Watergate	This third volume of the Nixon series is dominated by the Watergate scandal, with Ambrose skilfully detailing how the great election victory in 1972 slowly unravelled, as the full weight of the media and Democrat-controlled Congress worked to expose the whole tawdry episode.   During this era, there was also the bombing of Hanoi followed by the Vietnam ceasefire, and summits with the Soviet leadership, but Watergate overshadowed all.  Ambrose makes it clear that Nixon reinvented the story over and over, and bears a large burden of blame for the predicament he found himself in.  He also makes clear that this was the opportunity for Nixon's arch enemies in the media and Congress to go for blood.  The descent into the nightmare of possible impeachment and eventual resignation reads like an inevitablity, that Nixon lasted till August 1974 said a lot about his tenacity and stubborness in the face of relentless adversity.<br />The recovery of Nixon was never fully realized, although he was an authoritative elder statesman in later years, and Ambrose shows that Nixon had regained a fair amount of respect in his later years.  Since his death the left has continued to disparage and villify his legacy, but as hard as it is to defend Nixon at times, he was still a statesman to be reckoned with, and his foreign policy record, especially with his China trip, is one of distinction.  The eastern establishment despised Nixon, but he did not cater to them, it was the silent majority that was his constituency.  One finishes this book wondering where America would have gone had the Watergate scandal not occurred.	2002-08-31
US	50716428	R3UI2WUCBQKGAU	0679753338	499546549	Nobody's Fool	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A good start to my Russo reading	Nobody's Fool was the first Richard Russo book I ever read, and it made me want to read more.  It's about a 50-something laborer named Sully, who seems to court disaster at every turn but somehow perserveres.  Like other Russo novels, not a heck of a lot seems to happen, yet the enjoyment is in the character development, and the unfashionable setting, usually a blue collar small town in upstate New York.  From his somewhat shady employer, to his elderly landlady, his unkempt and dizzy sidekick, and the old flame who is still in the picture, the characters make the book.  Nobody's Fool is a relaxing and amusing page turner that draws the reader in.  Maybe one day I'll watch the movie, as I wasn't even aware there was one when I read this.	2002-08-06
US	50716428	R1TJY44UVK20A7	1552781607	471187857	Randy Bachman: Takin' Care of Business	Books	5	7	7	N	N	One of the best rock music autobiographies	Randy Bachman, guitarist with the Guess Who, Brave Belt and Bachman Turner Overdrive, delivers with a candid look at his life and career, all the way from his beginnings on the north side of Winnipeg Manitoba.  His chapters detailing the early years of the groups he was in, and the whole atmosphere of the early 60's is excellent.  One gets images of Saturday night at the community centre with all the young bands in town competing against one another.  The tale moves on to sudden success, followed by the introduction of Burton Cummings into the Guess Who, and the several years of struggling.<br />The huge success of the Guess Who in the late 60's runs the gamut from the thrill of hearing their song on American radio, to the major breakthroughs, and then the downside of the firing/resignation of Bachman from the group, one of the more controversial moments in Canadian rock and roll history.<br />Bachman started over with his own band called Brave Belt, and in many ways he was back to square one.  These chapters are interesting to read, as it was the low point of his career, but one in which the seeds of BTO were planted.  After a few tough years, one enjoys Randy's comeback and triumph, with the title song becoming another national anthem in Canada almost.  Throughout it all, Randy touches on the business end of music a great deal, and his day to day life with his family over the years.  The volatile love/hate relationship with Burton Cummings is featured prominently as well.  Now that the group is on an endless \\"greatest hits\\" tour, it seems that the hatchet has been finally been buried, whether it be out of making peace or raking in the nostalgia dollars.  Enjoy this book, it's a page turner for the Randy Bachman fan especially.	2002-08-06
US	50716428	R1PN8QEAQZK7P1	030680834X	480068646	This Is Orson Welles	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Fascinating for the casual and serious buffs	I received this book as a gift recently, and I got a lot out of it, despite the fact that I am not a Kane-ologist.  Welles is revealed as a man who cared about his craft, and it details the inside story of many of his films, including the bastardization of the Magnificent Ambersons.  As a director, Bogdanovich speaks the language, and does well to coax the reticent Welles to open up about various moments in his checkered career.   Again, the serious film buffs get the most out of this book, but as a more than casual movie watcher I have read and re-read this book as I've discovered more of Orson's work.	2002-07-21
US	50716428	R3BJ1FXEKVMLZ9	0671510053	357229344	The Shipping News	Books	4	5	7	N	N	An offbeat journey	The Shipping News is a quirky book, and since I had not read Annie Proulx before it took a while to get used to her writing style.  Quoyle is a man in a loveless marriage to a trailer trash queen who treats him horribly, and he is stuck in a dead end life in upstate NY.  After a major event in the book Quoyle meets his aunt and decides to take his children to Newfoundland to start anew.  The journey is the thing in this novel, as Quoyle struggles to fit into his new strange world, trying to build a life.  Not much happens, it's about a middle aged man awakening to new sensations and hopes.  The mood is light but never frivolous, as Quoyle is presented both symapthetically and as a man who lacks drive and is in need of some.  The locals provide colour, and I don't think the portrayal of them is condescending or out of line, it could be any small village scenario anywhere in the world.   The book differs from the movie in certain ways, and I don't think Kevin Spacey was a good fit here.  Newfoundlander Gordon Pinsent on the other hand fit right in!  <br />The Shipping News is a good summer read, perhaps overrated in some ways but one should sit back and relax and let the setting and characters settle in nicely at their own pace, in that way the book can be enjoyed.	2002-07-21
US	50716428	RURS1ELOSSNM3	0684849267	203897764	Grant	Books	4	6	10	N	N	A decent enough bio	This bio of Grant is a broad sweep, and despite its faults, this book is still a good encapsulation of his life and career.  Grant's Mexican War experiences are detailed, along with insights about the two leading generals, Winfield Scott and Zachary Taylor.  The Civil War story is told quite clearly and although the author may be criticized for bringing very little new to the story, it is still a very good introduction for anyone interested in Grant's major role in the war.  I have read many Civil War books, but there are passages in this bio that more clearly illuminate Grant's relationship with his one-time superior Henry Halleck, as well as his friend William Tecumseh Sherman.  Throughout, Grant is portrayed as a man of action and decision, and of clear purpose.  <br />One hears the word &quot;revisionism&quot; applied to this book and one tends to agree.  Grant was a man of his time, and the author tends to overlook his weaknesses and faults.  He was a man born to lead armies, and was less successful as a politician, and it seems to be a bit of a stretch to call his scandal-ridden presidency a success.  Grant was a great military leader who was best known for his determination to move forward and engage the enemy when all others were timid, and he knew what the war was about before others grasped it.  At the same time he made some major misjudgements, Cold Harbor being the most prominent example.  Grant tends to get the benefit of the doubt a bit too much in this book, although in fairness a balanced approach is at least attempted. <br />Overall this is a worthwhile read.	2002-05-25
US	50716428	R22BM1DWIGXSJ7	0394555090	951161016	Theodore Rex	Books	4	2	3	N	N	TR in the Oval Office	Edmund Morris returns to Theodore Roosevelt in this volume detailing his time in the White House, from 1901-09.  TR moved overnight from being shelved into the vice-presidency straight to the Oval Office after the assassination of William McKinley.  From being shunted out of the way by Mark Hanna and the Republican &quot;business as usual&quot; moneymen, Roosevelt started his presidency off with bold strokes, inviting Booker T. Washington to the White House, and pushing for reform against trusts and combinations.  As Morris points out however, TR played both sides; in many ways a reformer, in others a conservative.  <BR>TR still left office with achievements such as mediating the Russo-Japanese war, negotiating the Panama Canal (and definitely not discouraging a revolution in Panama), and taking on the trusts.  <br />Morris' The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt was his masterpiece, and his Reagan bio/memoir was a self-indulgent mess which Theodore Rex goes a long way in overcoming.  Still, Morris' breeziness tends to grate; I never really got a true idea of the real politik of the time despite the detailed information.  Roosevelt seems difficult to capture in this bio, he seems like a mythical remote figure.  Certainly he made clear what a dynamic figure TR was, but he was just a man not a myth. Morris goes overboard on William Howard Taft's girth a bit much; yes he was a big man, but did Morris have to mention it every time he talked about Taft?  He was a president and Chief Justice after all.  Morris does capture the mentality of the time, writing in the milieu of the first decade of the 20th century, with all the racism, jingoism and social unrest of the time blended into the biography as if told by one of TR's contemporaries.  <br />A worthwhile read despite the book's shortcomings.	2002-02-27
US	50716428	R16TN7NHRIWLT0	0618095012	282490623	Hotel Honolulu	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Good if you like Theroux	I admit, after 5 chapters of Hotel Honolulu, I was ready to give it up.  Each chapter seemed to be a different story, another character in the Hawaiian mix, the book without much flow or direction.  Yet it gradually came together, Theroux as the self-exiled writer getting a job as a desk clerk in a nondescript hotel interacting and commenting on the characters around him.  It's typical Theroux, one is left wondering what is autobiographical and what isn't.  He works for the rascally and excessive Buddy Hamstra, who is both mirthful and sadistic, and at times pathetic.  His wife was born out of a unique tryst with a famous world figure.  Mainlanders and Hawaiians, Chinese and Filipinos and more, Theroux comments on them all, in both scathing and sympathetic terms.  One thing which stands out is Theroux's emphasis on sex in almost every chapter, but it's sex for gain, as a weapon, for profit, or comfort from pain.  <br />Those familiar with Theroux know his style, on the surface one who studies those around him and all their motivations, yet seems aloof in a snobbish way.  His chapters about Leon Edel are useful in pointing out the nature of his exile from his literary life, yet the literary superiority always grates.  I expect that from Theroux and so I go with it.  As with all his books, there are gems on almost every page, he writes with great care and thought to every situation.  He doesn't always hit the mark, but I found this book another rewarding read.	2001-10-05
US	50716428	R35NTHJGL2GHQN	0425178986	556294920	The Pledge	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A dark tale	Set in Switzerland in the 50's, The Pledge is a timeless book that shows a policeman's obsession with fulfilling his &quot;pledge&quot; to find the murderer of a child.  This man gives up everything in this obsession, against the consensus who have fingered somebody else.  The characters and the setting have a chilly darkness to them.  The sky always seems overcast, and little light shines through the characters too.  It's a short book, and difficult to put down.  It isn't the happiest of books, the characters aren't fully developed, yet the cynical nature of life is fleshed out completely.  It is timeless in that regard, one man standing on his own against a disbelieving group of his peers.	2001-09-21
US	50716428	R3TCSOVIX3BKRM	0385044518	260143252	A Stillness at Appomattox (Army of the Potomac, Vol. 3)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Unforgettable	Of all the many books I have read about the U.S. Civil War, this is one I could not put down.  The third volume of the Army of the Potomac trilogy gets to the human level of the war, those who served in the Union army having suffered through campaign, defeat and retreat through several leaders, came under the direction of Ulysses Grant.  From his reputation in the western theater of war, Grant was very different from his predecessors such as McClellan and Hooker.  The era of total war had begun in Virginia, and this book shows the horror of the Overland Campaign, through the Wilderness, Spotsylvania and Cold Harbor, then to the crossing of the James, the siege of Petersburg, and the eventual chase to Appomattox.  The nature of this campaign is depicted starkly, the ambulance trains taking back the wounded from the Wilderness, the Bloody Angle at Spotsylvania with the most severe hand to hand fighting in the war, and more.  The changing nature of the army is shown, with drafted &quot;bounty men&quot; who brought discredit to proud regiments, and the new war of attrition which made such units as the famed Iron Brigade dwindle.  <br />In lesser hands this book would have been readable and informative.  Catton on the other hand transcends that, he writes a classic, a must read for anyone interested in this conflict.  His other two installments in this series are excellent as well, &quot;Mr. Lincoln's Army&quot; and &quot;Glory Road&quot;.	2001-09-21
US	50716428	R5HREX7FNQAPB	0380976609	756282301	The Spirit of St. Louis: A History Of The St. Louis Cardinals And Browns	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A baseball town gets its due	Peter Golenbock is known for his oral histories of such teams as the Yankees, Red Sox, Cubs and Brooklyn Dodgers, and this latest book on St. Louis baseball is a worthy addition to the collection. The Cardinals have a storied history, from Rogers Hornsby to Dizzy Dean, from Stan Musial to Bob Gibson, and from Lou Brock to Willie McGee. From a ragtag organization to one of the storied franchises in baseball, this book also details the people who owned and managed the Cards, such as Branch Rickey, Sam Breadon, Gussie Busch and Bing Devine. What makes The Spirit of St. Louis even more of a must-read for baseball fans are the sections devoted to the St. Louis Browns. The Browns were at one time the more popular St. Louis ballclub, and George Sisler was as good a player as any who played in St. Louis. Unfortunately, the Browns suffered through mediocrity, until 1944 when they won the pennant. (and played the Cardinals in the World Series!). The decline of the Browns culminating in owner Bill Veeck putting tiny Eddie Gaedel up to the plate is also of interest.	2001-09-20
US	50716428	R127S68M4C7BN8	0395877520	41891462	My Other Life	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Theroux! Love him or hate him	I happen to enjoy Paul Theroux a lot of the time, and this &quot;fictional autobiography&quot; delivers the goods.  As usual, Theroux goes over familiar territory, Africa, Singapore, London and Massachussets, and makes one wonder which of his stories are real and which aren't.  My favourite chapters in this book are his encounter with the royals at a posh function, (especially his Prince Phillip moment) and his pilgrimage to his hometown of Medford Massachussets, slumming with some locals who wouldn't know one of his books if it hit them on the head.  <br />This is as good introduction to this author as any book, although one would do well to start off with one of his travel books, such as The Old Patagonian Express (which is where I discovered Theroux).  I found My Other Life to be much more enjoyable and substantial than his somewhat self-pitying My Secret History, written a few years previously.  In fact I should re-read My Other Life soon, each page has some gems.	2001-09-19
US	50716428	R2ZZPYB1H1W7H3	188164975X	627939206	The Greatest Rock & Roll Stories: The Most Outrageous, Magical and Scandalous Events in the History of Rock & Roll	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Read it in one night	What a riot this book was.  A lot of these stories I had heard before, but others I hadn't.  Entertaining and amusing, for those who like this kind of book I would recommend this highly.  The author makes a few good points.  The hostility towards long hair in the 1960's was real, and he points out that long hair didn't become &quot;mainstream&quot; until the early 70's with the general population.  There is also a chapter on the Woodstock festival, and Fein points out that the proximity to NY and the fact that the event got filmed made it seem as if that was the only festival that summer.  In fact there were many others that have been forgotten along the way.  Little tidbits such as that give this book credibility beyond the gossipy nature of this kind of book.	2001-09-07
US	50716428	R3B3QJYVREMZVB	014023313X	619669899	The Stone Diaries	Books	4	6	6	N	N	An &quot;ordinary&quot; life captured	From her tumultuous birth and the tragedy that accompanied it, Daisy Goodwill's life is told through these pages.  From her childhood to her school life, to adulthood, Shields tells Daisy's story.  At times the reader wonders where this is all going, and halfway through I was wondering if I was still going to finish.  In the second half of the book events of happiness and cruel fate intertwine, and it feels very real.  There were no tidy resolutions, especially when the inevitable creeping of old age brings forth new realities.  The last several chapters of this book stayed with me for a long time, and made this one of the better books I have read in some time.	2001-08-14
US	50716428	RPR2QE4BZ3PFK	0446359750	30949234	Devices and Desires (Adam Dalgliesh Mystery Series #8)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	One of her best	P.D. James is not simply a &quot;whodunit?&quot; type of writer, she adds so much cynicism and insight that her books have so much depth as a result.  Adam Dalgleish is visiting his late aunt's windmill and cottage and is drawn into a murder spree revolving around the East Anglian seaside.  The nuclear power plant dominates the scene, and casts a gloomy shadow over the setting of the novel.  James is as incisive as ever, studying the motivations of all the suspects involved, but also peering disturbingly into their personal lives and all the inner demons which haunt many of them.  Certainly there are many red herrings in this book, it adds to the enjoyment, and the ending was unexpected (which is something I always expect from P.D. James!)  James is unsentimental in her portrayals; the misguided Hilary Robarts, the secret between the Mair siblings, Meg's escaping from the political correctness of her previous life, Blaney's wretched existence with four children, the somewhat pathetic anti-nuclear pamphleteer, and so on.  The minor characters, from some of the early victims of the Whistler, to the Sgt. Oliphant of the local police who would be a scary fellow to be interrogated by, come to life in these pages and again add much depth to this novel.  If one is starting out with P.D. James, this book is a great place to start.  It's where I did, and I've read them all since I was captivated this first time.	2001-08-06
US	50716428	R3STXE4CNOWLTY	0060925914	725415146	Pure Baseball	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Keith takes us inside the game	For those of us who like keeping score during a baseball game and trying to get inside the real game, Pure Baseball is highly recommended.  Keith Hernandez explores two ballgames, one NL and the other AL, and goes pitch by pitch and analyzes the pitcher/batter confrontation in depth.  Perhaps it's in too much depth, one of Hernandez's axioms is that this is the essence of baseball, and devotes little time to fielding and baserunning.  No matter, the NL game in particular is fascinating to study, as Atlanta's Pete Smith faces the Phillies under lefthander Danny Jackson.  I learned so much reading this section alone.  Hernandez does his best work in the first half of the book.  The AL section seems rushed and not as in-depth, perhaps because the designated hitter takes out so much of the strategy when it comes to pitching changes.  If you see this book and enjoy the inner game of baseball, by all means pick it up.  It's a book I've re-read a couple of times, there's so much of value here.	2001-08-06
US	50716428	R2J1VA7DD8G4ZW	1573225517	138260184	High Fidelity	Books	2	3	7	N	N	A real disappointment	I had heard a lot about this book, and about Nick Hornby, but High Fidelity disappointed me in many ways.  The characters all seem to be part of Hornby's &quot;clique&quot; who like his music, go to his hangouts, and so on.  Fair enough, one writes what one knows about; Woody Allen movies are full of screenwriters and Bruce Springsteen sings about working class New Jersey, so why can't Hornby write about his milieu?  The hero in this book (Rob) is the owner of a used record shop, and he has love life problems, and feels as if life is passing him by.  He has a great passion for the music, and much of the book is reconciling this passion with the realities of his life in his 30's.  Unfortunately, I didn't care if he got back together with his girlfriend or not, or whether he turned a corner in his life.  He was just too unlikeable.  The only characters who interested me much were his co-workers at the record store, if you can call them workers.  They are depicted bang-on.  I have been to record shows myself and Hornby knows that bunch well.  <br />The most annoying thing about the book was Hornby constantly drawing the line as to what is good music and what isn't, as if he was telling us what is cool and what isn't.  That was very irritating, maybe we all don't dig Solomon Burke or whatever else Hornby beats us over the head with.  It's a very snobbish writing style, either we're in or we're out I guess.  I saw the movie later and it worked better.  I've read several novels from young British fiction writers, the best being the Football Factory by John King.  High Fidelity was fun for awhile but it lost me halfway through when I stopped caring about the characters or the plot.	2001-08-06
US	50716428	R38DA12J2HPWKZ	0394746236	432946773	001: The Civil War: A Narrative: Volume 1: Fort Sumter to Perryville (Vintage Civil War Library)	Books	5	62	62	N	N	A great read	The PBS series &quot;The Civil War&quot; and Tony Horwitz's book &quot;Confederates In the Attic&quot; opened the door to my Civil War interest, and Shelby Foote's first volume of his narrative clinched it.  I've heard many who've criticized his narrative style and some inaccuracies in the history, but I believe Foote does what brings history to life, he weaves a story and makes the characters live.  I enjoyed all parts of this first volume, but especially two sections.  The first was the battle of Pea Ridge, which I had never heard of, yet was analyzed brilliantly.  The second was the Peninsula Campaign; I couldn't put the book down reading about that part.  Stonewall Jackson sleeping under a tree when he was needed most, the &quot;best men of the Confederacy&quot; being sacrificed in frontal counter-attacks, McClellan's dilemmas (he was often painted here and by others as over-cautious and a brilliant retreater, yet Foote makes us sympathetic to his problems too), and the emergence of Robert E. Lee and the subsequent retreat of the federal troops.  There is so much more to read in this book, Sharpsburg, Shiloh, and also the political situations in both capitals.  I thank Shelby Foote for bringing this era to life for me, and I am halfway through volume 3 and I have not been disappointed with any of this massive undertaking.	2001-08-06
US	50716428	R2BES5UR1664YQ	0312071558	886083741	Before I Get Old: The Story of the Who	Books	2	11	17	N	N	Marsh kills the spirit of rock and roll	I agree with the reviewer who mentioned that Dave Marsh's preachiness and know-it-all attitude really is a detriment to this book.  Before I Get Old is well researched and thorough, the only problem is that it takes all the life out of what is one of the most exciting and dangerous rock groups of all time.  Marsh really fails to capture the early days of the Who, because he seems to judge everything as the elitist American reviewer he is.  In other words, he has no sense of humour and doesn't capture the essence of what made the Who what they were.  Pete Townshend is quoted at length, and he can be a real bore, he does his best communicating with a guitar in his hand and writing great songs of angst, rebellion and rage.  Marsh has done some good work here and there, but he is totally out in left field with this one, he really captured nothing of The Who.	2001-08-06
US	50716428	R1NWPPH2MDENQS	0679432477	340719393	Empire Falls	Books	4	12	12	N	N	True to life moments	I enjoyed this book, Russo populates his novels with realistic characters, and in this case it is the residents of the small town of Empire Falls.  Miles Roby, the soon to be divorced protaganist, struggles with his family situation and his future.  Miles runs the Empire Grill, owned by the elusive matriarch of the town, whose impact on Miles' life has been huge from his perspective.  There are other well crafted characters; Max Roby, Miles' never do well father who nonetheless thrives (reminiscent in some ways to Sully in Russo's novel Nobody's Fool); Jimmy Minty, the police officer who has a simmering resentment towards against Miles; his son Zack who is on again off again with Miles' daughter improbably nicknamed &quot;Tick&quot;; Walt Comeau, a shady yet affable character who is marrying Miles' wife; and the mysterious kid in art class who doesn't say a word and seems to harbour a great secret.  <br />Most of all, it is a tale of real life, of regret about choices made, and the joys and heartbreaks of everyday people.  If I had one problem at times it was Russo's tendency to hit you over the head with each new revelation, instead of letting the plot unfold more slowly and subtly.  I recommend this novel very much, if it seems that not much seems to happen, hang in there, it is very rewarding.  There are some moments at the end that don't ring true, but most of it does, and this book stayed with me afterwards.	2001-07-21
US	50716428	R5KFRA1ARYMA4	0804104549	109006436	Riding the Iron Rooster	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Not his best, but pretty good anyway	The first 100 pages of this book are a delight to read, with Theroux taking the Trans-Siberian railway through the vastness of Russia, then travelling down through Mongolia and into China.  His observations amuse and enlighten, and as always he brings a literary context to all his travel books.  Reading Main Street by Sinclair Lewis as he went through a similar flat boom town in the middle of Siberia was just an example of the way he weaves literature into his narrative.<br />Once Theroux gets into China, he tends to get lost in the vastness of it, as well as the restrictions of having his own special companion specially selected by the folks in the People's Republic.  These are minor quibbles, with Theroux I treasure every paragraph, as he puts the effort into making every paragraph important and interesting.  Riding the Iron Rooster is no exception.  Of course so much has changed in China since the mid-80's, and Theroux addresses these changes in his newer collection Fresh Air Fiend.  Theroux observes the places and people in China in his own usual way, he is curious and unsentimental (some say grouchy).  My favourite book in this genre is still The Old Patagonian Express, but Iron Rooster is not far behind.	2001-07-20
US	50716428	R1CQKKJOEAT0PI	0684868849	366534072	Roads : Driving America's Great Highways	Books	1	6	7	N	N	Should have kept the car in the garage	McMurty's book looked promising, as literary travel books of a personal nature usually have an interesting point of view.  In this case McMurtry totally lost me with his aloofness and lack of any kind of insight.  He travels huge distances on the interstate and other roads and appears to see nothing.  He is so miserable and self-indulgent that he might as well have stayed at home and written the same book.  Now Paul Theroux is as miserable as they come sometimes, but I devoured every word of his adventures.  Not so here, Roads was a very disappointing read for me.	2001-07-14
US	50716428	R3I704B6J3MOT	067975833X	289325498	Confederates in the Attic: Dispatches from the Unfinished Civil War	Books	5	10	11	N	N	The Civil War lives on!	Confederates in the Attic is a book I just re-read, and it gave me a huge interest in the Civil War as a whole.  Horowitz explores how the war and its issues continue to resonate with many people.  By far the most interesting part of the book is the &quot;Civil Wargasm&quot;, with the appropriately named Confederate &quot;hardcore&quot; re-enactor Robert Lee Hodge.  The fascinating tales of the war are juxtaposed with the housing developments and fast food strips which have overrun many historical areas.  Horowitz examines the attitudes of people who are still touched by the war, whether it be the debate over the Confederate flag or the current racial divisions in modern America.  I pegged Horowitz as a typical northeastern liberal writer at the start, but he surprised me with his evenhanded portayals.  In the hands of someone else this book could have been dogmatic and politically correct, but Horowitz lets the various characters in the book speak for themselves.  Humorous at times, serious as well, Horowitz does a great job captivating the reader.  It awakened my interest in the Civil War itself, and the volumes of Shelby Foote especially.	2001-06-05
US	50716428	R2AZUPN05YNQGQ	034538623X	484061988	The Guns of August (Modern Library 100 Best Nonfiction Books)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	First act of the Great War	Barbara Tuchman details the first month of the Great War (WW1) with a detailed eye to the huge movement of men in what was to become &quot;the war to end all wars&quot;.  Never before had such huge armies clashed in the field, the German buildup and advance through Belgium and on to France was a huge undertaking.  The general concept of the First World War is the static line which developed early on in the war, but at this early stage it was a very mobile and tactical war, and the chances of Germany overrunning all of Europe were very high indeed.  Tuchman explores the viewpoints of the leaders on both sides, political and military, as well as showing the cost of war, especially by neutral Belgium.  As always with Tuchman, it is a readable and very well researched book.	2001-06-04
US	50716428	RTXL32FVZ7MWX	0809223945	876266818	Dynasty : The New York Yankees 1949-1964	Books	4	8	8	N	N	The glory days of the Yankees revisited	Dynasty is Golenbock's finest baseball book, and he has written many, especially in this format.  (See Wrigley, Fenway etc.)  What makes this book special is that it profiles in a year-by-year format the greatest era of the New York Yankees, alternating between detailing each season and also profiling many of the greats (and not so greats).  This book is still fresh, but was written when Roger Maris and Mickey Mantle were still alive, so he was able to interview both.  Also, many lesser lights are profiled, from Tom Sturdivant to Clete Boyer to Andy Carey.  The whole setting revolves around the grandeur of Yankee Stadium, the presence of Casey Stengel, and baseball dominance which might never be seen again.  I didn't find the book to be totally perfect, but it is still one of the better baseball books.  For some reason I enjoy his section on the 1958 World Series the best; the Yankees were down 3 games to 1 and had to deal with the hostility of the Milwaukee crowd, and they managed to come back in style and win the World Series again.  There are many exciting moments in this book, you can just see the shadow across the field on a late afternoon in October.	2001-06-04
US	50716428	RHNN8GE924BOG	0767902521	157497316	A Walk in the Woods: Rediscovering America on the Appalachian Trail (Official Guides to the Appalachian Trail)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Lots of walking!	Bill Bryson can sometimes be too cute for my liking, but his style works well in this book.  With his sometimes trusty sidekick Katz, who is totally out of his element here, the two decide to hike the Adirondack Trail from Georgia to Maine.  Bryson keeps things light and breezy, but at the same time, the difficulties of such an undertaking are shown; the cold, the rain and snow, and the anxieties about getting lost and running into wild animals.  There are many interesting and humorous moments here, getting a wild ride from a young couple in Georgia, having a woman tag along with them and drive them crazy, staying with many others in a slummy bunkhouse, Katz disappearing in the middle of nowhere and so on.  After a long time hiking and checking the map to see that they had not travelled far at all, one could really appreciate the vast distance they had to walk.  Bryson more than once says that the walk was monotonous and pointless in many ways, which is why he eventually had to skip many sections.  His walk in the coal mining country of Pennsylvania was among the most interesting, especially the town with fault cracks throughout.  Living in a New England college town Bryson goes a bit overboard with his uneasiness about \\"rednecks\\" but his comments are made in fun and it's more about being a fish out of water than anything else.  This book is just a fun read, and if approached in this way it is enjoyable.	2001-06-04
US	50716428	R1GQNX5HI5VFCX	0345359429	345581260	Battle Cry of Freedom:  The Civil War Era	Books	2	43	113	N	N	Disappointing and very biased	Seeing all the great reviews of this book, I read it and found many things disappointing with it. The prelude to the war is actually very well ordered and readable. Right off the bat though, McPherson shows that he is applying revisionist standards to the whole conflict. The Civil War was in the 1860's, not the 1990's, but McPherson judges the conflict by today's standards. In case after case, McPherson bends over backwards to downplay the actions of the Union cause. Grant and Sherman applied total war in the last year of the conflict, which viewed from afar was necessary, but McPherson applies a different standard to the Confederacy in every way. I agree with the comment here that the Confederates had legitimate grievances and acted accordingly when they were invaded. The issue of slavery is dealt with in a predictable fashion, in a good vs. evil way instead of a more even handed approach. For those who want a great history of the war itself, try Shelby Foote's great trilogy (sorry it is NOT biased towards the south, it is impartial, which is why some are hostile to it) and especially Bruce Catton's Army of the Potomac trilogy, which brings the war to a human level.	2001-02-24
US	50716428	R1XTQYP8NSQKD6	0771013329	813911837	The National Dream / The Last Spike	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Canadian historical and popular classic	Pierre Berton's two volume history of the building of the Canadian railway is a tour-de-force.  It is not only history but a narrative filled with colourful characters from the early days of Canadian Confederation.  The  politicians, the builders, the labourers, the surveyors, the boom towns and  native unrest, it is a rich depiction of the building of the railroad.   This is not strictly of interest to Canadians, it is of interest to all who  enjoy such topics as the 19th century, the settlement of the west, and the  social conditions and the mindset of the 1870's and 1880's.  Highly  recommended, it stands up well almost 30 years after print.  Also highly  recommended by Pierre Berton, My Country, Vimy and The Arctic Grail	2000-01-29
