US	50724118	R1CZ4XSI3VIVIG	0393323145	790320833	The Seven Daughters of Eve: The Science That Reveals Our Genetic Ancestry	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Fun Book - Easy to Read - Thought Provoking.	Not being a scientist, I thought that I was in over my head at first - he starts off about finding the \\"Man in the Ice\\" and then how he had been involved in getting DNA from very old bones (a few hundred years old) and then how he ended up doing mitochondrial DNA research in the Polynesian Islands.  Though I could understand what he was saying, I couldn't see how they related to each other or why he mentioned them.  He pulls them all together brilliantly though as each activity did eventually have something to do with his mitochondrial research in Europe.<br /><br />He fully explains (in a dumbed down version, I'm sure) for us regular folks what he did, what he found and what significance it has. In fact, I got so interested that I devoured the book within three evenings (fast for me).  The conjectural fiction of the lives of the seven women were actually a small part of the book, just a few chapters in the back.  The last chapter speaks of the world at large and the other clan mothers briefly (there are 26 others if you consider the whole world).  Some of those concepts, or specifically their ramifications, are very interesting also and I would love to see more on them.  In particular, how all clan mothers tie back to one ultimate clan mother and, given the results of the study, that there can not possibly be anything truly fitting the modern conception of separate \\"races\\".<br /><br />Fun book. Easy to read. Thought provoking.	2004-11-19
US	50724118	R1FGK4EVLPMEII	0553212702	287583721	The House of the Seven Gables (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	More About Language Than Horror	This is more of a story for the person in love with our language and will leave thrill seekers (and most youngsters) cold.  After getting off to a great start for a horror story, the story line sort of bogs down in the middle before coming back to an active pace for a predictable ending.<br /><br />Hawthorne sets the scene for a family feud between the powerful Pyncheons and the lowly Maules. Through a series of strong arm tactics, the senior Pyncheon brings a curse onto the family with the House of Seven Gables - a house designed and built for Pyncheon by Maule's son on land that had been wrested from the Maule family. After generations of failure and thwarted ambition, the Pyncheon line is almost dead and the curse continues to linger. There is only an old maid with a scowl to scare children, Hepzibah; her brother Clifford who returns from a long imprisonment for the murder of his uncle; Judge Pyncheon, the son of Clifford's victim, an ambitious man who cloaks the depravities of his soul with a false magnanimity; and Phoebe, a country cousin who seems not to be born down with the weight of the curse except through her exposure to the others. When the Judge dies under mysterious circumstances in the House of Seven Gables, the curse is set to either finally destroy the Pyncheons and the Maules or to expire and leave them to a new peace.<br /><br />House of Seven Gables is more notable for me in the language that he uses.  The way he describes everything is absolutely beautiful, particularly when he is describing the young women - \\" All her little womanly ways, budding out of her like blossoms on a young fruit tree, had their effect on him, and sometimes caused his very heart to tingle with the keenest thrills of pleasure. At such moments - for the effect was seldom more than momentary - the half-torpid man would be full of harmonious life, just as a long-silent harp is full of sound, when the musician's fingers sweep across it.\\"	2004-10-25
US	50724118	R3RDQIDILICKXP	067976402X	877433184	Snow Falling On Cedars	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Very Good but Very Slow	When the author mentions on page 31 how entertaining the main character found Melville's Moby Dick, I suspected that his writing style might be very similar.  As it turns out, that was a dead on comparison. The book covers the three day murder trial of Kabuo Miyamoto but by the end of the book we have come to know the characters intimately over the course of their lives together and the true central plot of the strained relations of the Japanese Americans and those of European descent on a small island community off of Seattle. We get a few minutes of court time and then we catapult back through time to how Kabuo's father had settled on the island; the relationship between Kabuo's wife, Hatsue, and the journalist covering the trial; how the community held together through the difficult times of war and how knee-jerk national reactions  and war affected these people. The pace picks up around page 275 when we start spending more time in the present with the ongoing court case and Ishmael's attempting to deal with ancient feelings for the girl he loved in his youth but was divided from by war.  The pace stays at a steady simmer throughout and the quality of writing will keep you going.<br /><br />And this IS quality writing. I sometimes wince to compare a modern author to a classic great like Melville, but I am unabashed here.  The writing style is very similar in a lot of ways and the plot is so well delivered that the murder trial is just a small part of the story by the end.  In this respect, a comparison to Dicken's deliveries of social outrages might be more in order (sans the humor).  The Japanese American experience is at the heart of this novel and it is so palpable that it would seem that the author had to have had some first hand exposure to the elements making up the story.  This could be a modern classic, easily.	2004-10-25
US	50724118	R2RWLEDC3RBP1T	0743453492	492214240	Beachcomber	Books	3	1	1	N	N	"Another Stakeout" with Lots of Sex and Action	Christy Petrino, an Atlantic City attorney, has just discovered that her fiancee and employer, Michael De Palma, is running the law firm she works for as a front for the mob. As any sensible woman would do, she has broken off the engagement, quit her job and is in the process of running home to mother (who is also dating a gangster).  Before she can get there, however, she is intercepted and told that it isn't that easy and that they (the mafia) might consider to let her go her own way (and her mother and sisters) if she delivers a certain package to a certain location.  So it is that we find her on Ocracoke Island when she stumbles across the latest victim of a serial killer dubbed the BeachComber - and becomes a target of him as well. Uncertain if she has attracted the attention of a serial killer or if she is the target of a mob hit, Christy is afraid to leave without satisfying the mob's requirements on one hand and afraid to ask for help from authorities if it is a contractual hit.  The only person she can turn to is the \\"hottie\\" in the next cottage, Luke Rand (an undercover FBI agent trailing her to get to her boyfriend), who she caught snooping around her patio on the first night.  Humourous situations such as feigning ownership of a man hating feral cat and being accidentally trapped in the trunk of Christy's car bring to mind scenes from the \\"Another Stakeout\\".<br /><br />This is a pretty decent book for the romance/suspense genre.  It cannot escape the \\"romance\\" label because of the constant importance placed on the two main character's budding relationship, complete with two fully depicted sexual encounters.  However, readers who snub \\"romance\\" novels shouldn't shy away too fast.  The main plot line is definitely thirller/suspense stuff and is very entertaining.  Basically, if you liked the \\"Another Stakeout\\" movie, you will like this book. They are very similar.<br /><br />This is my first Robards novel so I am not sure if the author has a fetish for all beautiful women's bottoms or just for that of her heroine.  Seriously, it really got funny after the fifth or sixth reference to the attractiveness of Christy's bottom.for all beautiful women's bottoms or just for that of her heroine.  Seriously, it really got funny after the fifth or sixth reference to the attractiveness of Christy's bottom.	2004-09-23
US	50724118	RAYEIKU9INP9Y	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Indiana Jones Meets Laura Croft	Taken in the spirit of what this book is, an action/thriller, this is an extremely good one.  Look for action and plenty of it and think of Harrison Ford and you are on the right track. This really is a story possibly even better than Indiana Jones and SHOULD BE TRANSLATED INTO FILM. My only complaint, in the beginnning, was that the underdeveloped characters were over awed with themselves.  My opinion did not change much by the end and was actually reinforced by the villain's self perception of his role and purpose.  However, I now feel that this is not a fault in this book.  Human foibles will be lent to the characters by the actors who portray them on film.  Had the foibles been built in, you might have something akin to a modern day Dumas on your hands but don't look for that - this is STRICTLY action.<br /><br />Robert Langdon, a Harvard professor specializing in symbology is called in by the world's most advanced scientific research center when the leading physicist, Leonardo Vetra, is found brutally murdered - his chest branded with an ancient symbol that, if legitimate, could indicate the resurgence of a group, the Illuminati, that has vowed to destroy the Catholic Church.  Having stolen Dr. Vetra's latest work, they may actually be able to do just that. (I found the motivation for the Illuminati to turn from heretical scientists to terrorists rather a far stretch but, hey, it's fiction).<br /><br />Joining forces with Vetra's daughter, Vittoria (on the order of Laura Croft) they have to work against the clock to uncover the ancient path of the Illuminati across Rome, tracking the man who is killing Cardinals and who is the only one who can tell them how to save Vatican City from total annhiliation.<br /><br />The misdirection in this one is good.  I thought I had it figured out ... a couple of times.	2004-09-23
US	50724118	R3VD9ZPQ3LGFXK	0156006049	215866423	The Witch of Exmoor	Books	1	6	9	N	N	Too Difficult to get Into	This novel is written in third person present tense (like reading stage directions) with a fly on the wall perspective.  I made it through three family dinners where the family intermittedly discusses the possiblity that their possibly just overly flamboyant mother may be insane and social philosophy (all the while bemoaning the position that most of the middle classes and superior cannot truly divest themselves of their self importance enough to discuss it objectively).<br /><br />The third dinner was all that I could take and I quit about a hundred pages in.  This won the Los Angeles Times award so it's somebody's bag, but not mine. I found absolutely no resemblance between Drabble's writing style and Dickens', as has been suggested.  I can think of no other author to compare it to except possibly Fitzgerald or Conrad (without the descriptiveness).	2004-09-23
US	50724118	R23S5VPZ5WO6J8	0743437136	661143336	Wild Orchids: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Exquisitely Done - Rare Talent in Modern Fiction	Ford Newcombe is an aging writer who has lost the desire to write and is basically living in the past.  He knows he needs a jump start to get back to writing and is thinking of putting together a collection of stories of the occult.  When he asks Jackie Maxwell to be his assistant, she puts him on the track of a story she had heard long ago about a woman in a small North Carolina town being presseed to death for allegedly consorting with the devil.<br /><br />When Ford and Jackie move into a crumbling Victorian house in the deep woods of this town to investigate the story they start finding troubling answers that raise even more troubling questions.  Such as why does Jackie seem to have so much first hand knowledge of Cole Creek? Could a body found recently point to a community using a \\"ghost story\\" to cover up nefarious activities?  And if this is a true, could they be exposing themselves to real danger by exposing the killers?<br /><br />It is rare to find modern fiction with character developemnt of this caliber.  By page 23 I was so into the character of Ford Newcombe that I had to read privately in case something made me cry. (He recounts the best moments in his life with his late wife). The format, one chapter from Newcombe's point of view followed by one from Jackie Maxwell's gives each character time for development as well as enhancing the story line by letting us see multiple angles somtimes of the same event.	2004-09-22
US	50724118	R3O91ZHHHEL9T6	0812567102	12564777	The Age of Innocence (Tor Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Absolutely Breathtaking	On a 5 star scale, this is a 7.  The Age of Innocence is about New York society in the late 1800's.  Wharton's fast paced dialogue is unequivocally the best I have ever read.  The reader is not only pulled in immediately but comes quickly to understand the nonverbal communication inherent in the interchanges.  This is the heart of the story  - the things that are not said, the things that are not done in New York society at that time and how the rigid rules of that society were enforced without ever explicitly saying any of it.  In Mrs. Wharton's words: \\"It was the old New York way of taking life \\"without effusion of blood\\": the way of people who dreaded scandal more than disease, who placed decency above courage, and who considered that nothing was more ill-bred than \\"scenes,\\" except the behaviour of those who gave them. \\" This is as much a story about the mores of New York society as it is a bitter love story of two people caught up in it.<br /><br />Newland Archer represents New York society as a young man of high society blissfully engaged to equally prominent May Welland.  The reader comes to know him and the story is told through his eyes. It is through him that we come to understand \\"the rules\\".  When Countess Ellen Olenska returns from a ruined marriage abroad, everything in Newland's structured view of society is challenged. It is as if a veil is lifted from his eyes and he can suddenly see the big picture from multiple points of view.  However, one of the facets of \\"the rules\\" is to be blind to these angles and once empowered to see, he belongs neither to New York or to the world at large.  He has only the choice of destroying all that he knows in pursuit of the mysterious woman who has brought about this change or living a life whose values for him have lost their luster.  She, on the other hand, has come to see the value to the ideas that have had Newland so rigidly encased.  Together they are a ringing disavowal and endorsement at the same time.<br /><br />This is not an indictment of that society.  Ms. Wharton  had condemned it early in her life but eventually found a value in the way that things were done and reflects that sentiment in Madame Olenska who, having had her eyes opened could never fully return.<br /><br />\\"... if it's not worthwhile to have given up, to have missed things, so that others may be saved from disillusionment and misery - then everything I came home for, everything that made my other life seem by contrast so bare and so poor because no one there took account of them - all these things are a sham or a dream.  \\"<br /><br />This is not your typical love story and there have been no spoilers given here.  In the end, you will feel that the characters have done what is right; however, in this book, it is the definition of right that is being questioned.<br /> <br />This is not an indictment of that society.  Ms. Wharton  had condemned it early in her life but eventually found a value in the way that things were done and reflects that sentiment in Madame Olenska who, having had her eyes opened could never fully return.  <br />\\"... if it's not worthwhile to have given up, to have missed things, so that others may be saved from disillusionment and misery - then everything I came home for, everything that made my other life seem by contrast so bare and so poor because no one there took account of them - all these things are a sham or a dream.  \\" <br /> <br />This is not your typical love story and there have been no spoilers given here.  In the end, you will feel that the characters have done what is right; however, in this book, it is the definition of right that is being questioned.  <br />	2004-07-25
US	50724118	R1WCFESP6RB7Y9	0141439661	569473707	Sense and Sensibility (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Very Similar to Pride but Holds Its Own by the End	In Sense and Sensible the storyline dwells on the two elder sisters of the Dashwood family, Elinor and Mariane.  Elinor is always in control of her emotions and is governed primarily by prudence (sense). Her younger sister, Marianne, is an emotional whirlwind whose sensibilities dictate that those who do not evidence wholly encompassing emotions are without them entirely.  As in Pride &amp; Prejudice, the family home of the Dashwoods has been willed to another member of the family not in the immediate nuclear family.  In Pride &amp; Prejudice, the home was entailed to Mr. Collins, a distant cousin.  Where there was only an overshadowing of the loss of the estate in that book, in Sense &amp; Sensibility, the house is actually lost to the half brother whose wife, a Ferrar, not only talks her husband out of the generous support to his half sisters that he promised (albeit vaguely) his dying father but makes life in general unpleasant for the Dashwood ladies until they find a situation with a cousin, John Middleton.  Part of the unpleasantness surrounds an apparent but unprofessed affection of her brother, Edward Ferrars, for the eldest Dashwood, Elinor.<br />It would seem that the move has quashed the supposed attraction, leaving Elinor attempting to contain her disappointment.  Marianne meanwhile strikes up an intense relationship with equally extroverted Willoughby.  When Willoughby suddenly disappears, the two girls come together to support each other emotionally through a storm of discoveries, pleasant and unpleasant.<br />Sense and Sensibility develops into its own independent storyline after many similarities with Pride &amp; Prejudice.  Although this novel holds its own and is an enjoyable book, I still feel that Pride &amp; Prejudice is its superior in pace, story line and general feel. Sense came out well before Pride and it almost feels that the same idea is being worked out in both - an idea that got clearer and was better communicated in Pride. Pride had a much more natural (believable) feeling to the events where Sense does require a little suspension of disbelief in some of the contrivances to get to a happy ending (specifically referring to the actions of Robert Ferrar).  If you liked Pride and want more Austen, this is your book.  If you are choosing between the two, choose Pride ... than come back for this one.much more natural (believable) feeling to the events where Sense does require a little suspension of disbelief in some of the contrivances to get to a happy ending (specifically referring to the actions of Robert Ferrar).  If you liked Pride and want more Austen, this is your book.  If you are choosing between the two, choose Pride ... than come back for this one.	2004-07-11
US	50724118	R2LTUFBD1R37VJ	0553213105	503057596	Pride and Prejudice (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	It�s Not So Much in What Happens but How it Happens	I have to say that I thoroughly enjoyed Pride &amp; Prejudice.  Although it has to be called a romance, I personally feel that the fascination is much more about the rules of behavior and courtship in Victorian society.  The same story set in the modern day would not be nearly so interesting because you no longer have the rules to navigate that are present in the time in which it is set.  It is the compliance with these rules and the reaction when they are not followed properly that makes the social structure of the time (as it is presented here) more like a chess game than a simple romance story.  This given with characters and settings that have a feel to them that reminds me of Little Women made this book a great deal of fun to read.  It was fast paced with plenty of intrigues.<br />The back of my book puts the entire plot into one short paragraph.  I was at first concerned that this would take the fun out of the reading since who marries who in the end was spelled out right there.  However, in reading it I realized that it is not WHAT happens in this book as much as it is HOW it happens and in this Austen is a true master.  Essentially the story is of the five daughters of the Bennett family.  The addle-brained mother has no other concern than to marry her daughters off and the detached father generally just makes fun of the whole situation.  Jane and Elizabeth are the two eldest daughters and Jane forms an attachment early on to Bingley, a gentleman who has leased a house/estate nearby.  When a pompous Mr. Darcy interferes in Jane's attachment to Bingley, Elizabeth is turned vehemently against him - a sentiment further deepened by aspersions made by Mr. Wickham, Mr. Darcy's father's godchild.  As fate would have it, Mr. Darcy develops an attachment to Elizabeth and has to redeem himself in her eyes, despite his feelings of social superiority and her many resentments.<br />I don't know if the title is to reflect the pride of Mr. Darcy and the prejudice of Elizabeth against him.  At one point she says the following: \\" Vanity and pride are different things, though the words are often used synonymously.  A person may be proud without being vain.  Pride relates more to our opinion of ourselves, vanity to what we would have others think of us.\\" I see her really exploring this in the character of Mr. Darcy and his relations and feel that the title may have more to do with the exploration of this sentiment than in any of the individual characters.eth against him.  At one point she says the following: \\" Vanity and pride are different things, though the words are often used synonymously.  A person may be proud without being vain.  Pride relates more to our opinion of ourselves, vanity to what we would have others think of us.\\" I see her really exploring this in the character of Mr. Darcy and his relations and feel that the title may have more to do with the exploration of this sentiment than in any of the individual characters.	2004-06-26
US	50724118	R28UB6WOP8QVIK	0553212737	569473707	Emma (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	First Half Slow but Satisfying Overall	Honestly, if I had not read Pride &amp; Prejudice first, I would have thought that I did not like Jane Austen's writing style.  Emma is extremely slow to begin with though it picks up about half way through.  The story centers on Emma Woodhouse, the unmarried daughter of a man obsessed with ailments to be potentially caught from drafts, rich foods and just about anything that is part of ordinary life. Consequently he does not go out (as a rule) and depends on Emma substantially for companionship and general well being. Despite his eccentricities, he is well loved by the community and is a very genial character.  Emma, resolved not to marry, takes up matchmaking after her governess, Miss Taylor, marries friend and neighbor, Mr. Weston and Emma feels that she had contributed to making the happy union come about.  Against the advice of family friend and mentor, Mr. Knightly, she \\"takes under her wing\\" a young girl at the local school to groom and bring out into good society in hopes of finding her a husband - specifically Mr. Elton of the vicarage.  Despite her unknown parentage and lack of good expectations, Emma convinces the girl, Harriet Smith, to aim high in her expectations of a husband and to reject the advances of those of her natural social set in preference for a gentleman.<br />This goes on for so long that I was convinced that this was going to be the whole of the book.  Joyfully, though, the Mr. Elton angle blows up catastrophically and simultaneously several more interesting characters are introduced.  The icily reserved Jane Fairfax comes to visit her grandmother and aunt before hiring out as a governess. Though she had been taken in by the Campbells and raised very genteelly along side their own daughter, she has no fortune of her own. The same age as Emma, they are expected to be fast friends but Emma's resentments of Jane's superior abilities and deportment do not bode well for this.  Then Mr. Weston's son, Frank Churchill, who was raised by his aunt and uncle after his mother's death, comes to meet his new stepmother and makes a splash in Highbury society.  Mrs. Weston has designs for Emma and Frank. Emma meanwhile has designs for Harriet and Frank.  No one can figure out Jane's designs though Emma suspects improper attachments between her and her benefactor's daughter's new husband. Mr. Elton then brings in a new wife whose forceful manner and arrogant air threaten to turn everything upside down against Emma when Mrs. Elton tries to force a relationship as Jane's  benefactress.  Similarities between Emma's presumptions with Harriet and Mrs. Elton's presumptuous behavior with Jane  are unavoidable and provide a relatively subtle irony.<br />In this last half as the intrigues play out, the story takes on the flavor of Pride and Prejudice and becomes infinitely more interesting.  Though the first part was slow, it did serve to really build the character of Emma and she becomes very real through her actions in the second half. It also serves to humanize Mrs. Elton's character to some extent while softening Emma's.<br />This really is a  very, very good book and I would have given it 5 stars except for how slow it was in the first half.  A patient reader will enjoy this but readers who don't have patience with character studies or slow bits would do better to read Pride and Prejudice.and uncle after his mother's death, comes to meet his new stepmother and makes a splash in Highbury society.  Mrs. Weston has designs for Emma and Frank. Emma meanwhile has designs for Harriet and Frank.  No one can figure out Jane's designs though Emma suspects improper attachments between her and her benefactor's daughter's new husband. Mr. Elton then brings in a new wife whose forceful manner and arrogant air threaten to turn everything upside down against Emma when Mrs. Elton tries to force a relationship as Jane's  benefactress.  Similarities between Emma's presumptions with Harriet and Mrs. Elton's presumptuous behavior with Jane  are unavoidable and provide a relatively subtle irony.<br />In this last half as the intrigues play out, the story takes on the flavor of Pride and Prejudice and becomes infinitely more interesting.  Though the first part was slow, it did serve to really build the character of Emma and she becomes very real through her actions in the second half. It also serves to humanize Mrs. Elton's character to some extent while softening Emma's.   <br />This really is a  very, very good book and I would have given it 5 stars except for how slow it was in the first half.    A patient reader will enjoy this but readers who don't have patience with character studies or slow bits would do better to read Pride and Prejudice.	2004-06-26
US	50724118	R1PEJNG59OIL6J	0613027450	259828480	Ivanhoe (Classics Illustrated)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great Twists and Turns	This review is of Ivanhoe strictly as a fun FICTIONAL book to read. I can not vouch for any historical accuracy nor is that my intent.<br />I turned onto Ivanhoe because I had heard that this story influenced Dumas when he wrote the Three Musketeer saga and I am really glad that I gave it a chance. The story of Ivanhoe is about the return of the Wilfred of Ivanhoe and King Richard from the Crusades.  Wilfred is the disinherited son of Cedric of Rotherwood, aka Cedric the Saxon.  Cedric dreams of restoring the Saxon monarchy and has been trying to facilitate a union between his ward, Rowena and Athelstane, whose pure bloodline would give credit to a claim for rule.  A strong affection between Rowena and his son Wilfred (henceforth called Ivanhoe) has caused him to exile his son - his sacrifice to promote the Saxon cause. The disinherited Ivanhoe went to serve with Richard the Lion Heart in the Crusades.  While Richard and Ivanhoe have been gone, Richard's brother, Prince John, has been gathering friends and making schemes for wresting control from Richard before he could get back and squelch his efforts.  The conflict between the Normans and Saxons and the absence of King Richard (Lion Heart) has created the perfect conditions for a rebellion of the Saxons and/or a coup by John - both of which seem almost imminent.<br />The twists and turns are great.  When Richard and Ivanhoe return incognito and fight in a tournament, besting all of the strongest, the wheels start turning that will see damsels abducted, the storming and sacking of a castle with the aid of Robin Hood and his Merry Men, a witch trial and more swordplay.  Great, great, great. It's no wonder that this work is still being read almost two hundred years later and influenced what I consider to be one of the best adventure stories ever - the Three Musketeers. If you like Dumas, you will more than likely like this even though it is not as involved or long as a Dumas novel.	2004-05-31
US	50724118	R3H64MH39PG8XG	0553210246	573665066	The Mayor of Casterbridge (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Possibly the Perfect Tragic Character	When Thomas Hardy penned The Mayor of Casterbridge, he brought to life a very authentic character in Michael Henchard. He is possibly the perfect tragic character.  The only other character I can think of to compare him to as I struggle to describe him and the story - for he is so much the story - is King Lear. But where Lear was a King who was foolish, Michael is the common man, a simple hay trusser, with several character flaws ... most notably shortsightedness and a desire to \\"be on top\\".  He at no point feels something that most people don't but where we restrain our first rash and selfish actions (most of the time), he goes full out until he has cost himself everything and too late finds redemption.  His flaw is insidious and all too common, so we relate easily even through his most outrageous misadventures.<br />In a fit of drunken despondency, feeling that he is being pulled down by the responsibility of being a twenty-one year old husband and father, he jests that he would gladly part with his wife and daughter for the sum of five pounds. After having sworn this so vehemently for the entire evening, he has little recourse when someone takes him up on it and his wife, in shame and anger, agrees to go with the purchaser, taking their daughter with her. When sobriety brings full realization, it also brings a vow of temperance from Michael who in the following fifteen years builds himself up to a position respectability and public admiration in the nearby town of Casterbridge.<br />Though he seems to have learned his lesson, we are only on chapter two and his story is just beginning as his wife and child return and his friendship with a trusted friend and critical advisor becomes a bitter rivalry.  Time and again he demands allegiance when he need only ask it and return it in kind.<br />Hardy's writing style is direct and straight-forward with no flourishes like you might find with Dickens or Twain.  He has a story to tell and he tells it - no swashbuckling adventures like DeFoe or Dumas.  However you feel about that, the character of Michael Henchard continues to skulk around in my head.  He represents to me a very real possibility of personal failure and haunts my mind now just as Scrooge's deceased partner haunted him in A Christmas Carol.  I would have given this book a fun factor of three stars when I first read it.  Now I give it five stars because I have had the time to realize what a masterful job Hardy did when he created Michael Henchard.adventures like DeFoe or Dumas.  However you feel about that, the character of Michael Henchard continues to skulk around in my head.  He represents to me a very real possibility of personal failure and haunts my mind now just as Scrooge's deceased partner haunted him in A Christmas Carol.  I would have given this book a fun factor of three stars when I first read it.  Now I give it five stars because I have had the time to realize what a masterful job Hardy did when he created Michael Henchard.	2004-05-31
US	50724118	R235NEECJE56IN	0192838431	656665385	Twenty Years After (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	44	45	N	N	Entertaining, Lots more history, maturity	It is twenty years after the first Musketeers saga and Athos, Aramis, Porthos and d'Artagnan have all gone their separate ways. Midlife has mellowed the musketeers and definitely complicated their perceptions. Porthos has been indulging himself with his widow's money and working himself up the caste ladder but is still not entirely accepted but the upper crust he wants to become. Aramis has gone into the church and, although he dreams wistfully of the days that he was a musketeer, his scheming has become more of a way of life than a troublesome quirk.  Athos is the only one who still closely resembles the man he was in his youth. Even the hot tempered, rambunctious D'Artagnan has settled in to his career as a professional soldier. He is now a musketeer for the paycheck instead of the glory. Yet all deep down reminisce of `the good old days' - the only question is what will they do to recapture them.<br />Mazarin has replaced Richelieu as Cardinal and the queen, once persecuted by the previous Cardinal, is now in league (or at least in bed) with the despised Italian Mazarin. Though Mazarin is popularly hated by the people, D'Artagnan jumps at the opportunity for advancement when Mazarin commissions him to reassemble the foursome ostensibly for the protection of the prince regent and queen. But the others have their own ideas about working for Mazarin and Dumas maintains a delicate balance as the four eventually do come to work together though not entirely on the same side.<br />Twenty Years After is more grounded in history than the first and I highly recommend this particular book for the notes in the back.  For all the criticism that Dumas plays fast and loose with history, it depends on where you place your yardstick.  He moves events around a bit with people coming back from exile a year or two early and a battle being fought several years later but, over all, this is really grounded in history.  The bulk of the plot is the siege of Paris by the Queen (and Mazarin) in the late 1640's. The death of Charles I and the peasant revolt are more substantial historical events than the retrieval of the Queen's diamonds in the first novel so expect a lot more complicated plot as far as people and events.  Dumas knew his history (judging by the degree of deviation suggested by the notes) and though he might move or bend it, he still tried for plausibility. We also have a new arch enemy in this one - Lady DeWinter's son, Mordaunt, who has come to seek revenge on the men who executed his mother in the first book.<br />While still a superb adventure story, this is a more adult tale with more emphasis on psychological motivations and the effect of time on a man's ideals and motivations. I enjoyed the first one more because of the less complicated plot and swift action but that is not to suggest that Twenty Years After is lacking in any way. When taken in conjunction with the first, the idea is brilliant and brings out many more elements that a simple `more of the same' sequel just couldn't do.rin) in the late 1640's. The death of Charles I and the peasant revolt are more substantial historical events than the retrieval of the Queen's diamonds in the first novel so expect a lot more complicated plot as far as people and events.  Dumas knew his history (judging by the degree of deviation suggested by the notes) and though he might move or bend it, he still tried for plausibility. We also have a new arch enemy in this one - Lady DeWinter's son, Mordaunt, who has come to seek revenge on the men who executed his mother in the first book. <br />While still a superb adventure story, this is a more adult tale with more emphasis on psychological motivations and the effect of time on a man's ideals and motivations. I enjoyed the first one more because of the less complicated plot and swift action but that is not to suggest that Twenty Years After is lacking in any way. When taken in conjunction with the first, the idea is brilliant and brings out many more elements that a simple `more of the same' sequel just couldn't do.	2004-05-06
US	50724118	R1V102D286C7C6	0486266842	82761703	The Turn of the Screw (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	3	17	19	N	N	Difficult to Read but Fun	James's narrative style is bit difficult for me to read.  It seems to me that, at least in this story, he writes in a breathless, phrase filled steam of consciousness style - similar, but more so, to this sentence.  Most sentences contain many phrases having more or less to do with the subject of the sentence but getting to a point that I would re-read many of them to try to sort out exactly what was intended. Oftentimes, I felt that I only got the gist of the sentence before moving on.  The story is intriguing and I was dying to understand it.  In the end, I think that a great deal of the ambiguity is intentional. This is one case where I may end up resorting to help from Cliff in interpretation.<br />The story of the unnamed governess is given as a sort of ghost story told among friends but originating from the real manuscript of the narrator's sister's governess of the spectral occurrences she witnessed at a previous position she had had when she was younger. Accepting a post at Bly as governess to a young girl who's brother was away to school, she is under the strict interdiction not to make reports to her employer, the children's legal guardian and uncle. Shortly after the beginning of her engagement, the male child returns from the school, presumably for the holidays, but a letter from the headmaster informs her that he is not to be allowed back. No reasons are given and a mystery develops over why a child so innocent seeming as he should be outcast. Mystery continues to flourish as the new governess begins to see two people on the grounds that are identified by the housekeeper on their descriptions as the previous governess and the employer's man  - both deceased. As the governess becomes convinced that the apparitions have malevolent designs on the children, she enters into a struggle of evasion and confrontation, dealing with things half-said or unspoken.  While I was truly clueless most of the time as to exactly what her suspicions were, the ending seemed to illuminate them and was very powerful. I think that the design of the story is to play on the reader's imagination and interpretation ... I think. This is one story where I will seek out other's reactions to see if I read it the same way they did; but even if other's reader's interpretation are vastly different I still believe that that allowance for each reader's imagination to give the shape to the story is remarkable.ed to illuminate them and was very powerful. I think that the design of the story is to play on the reader's imagination and interpretation ... I think. This is one story where I will seek out other's reactions to see if I read it the same way they did; but even if other's reader's interpretation are vastly different I still believe that that allowance for each reader's imagination to give the shape to the story is remarkable.	2004-05-05
US	50724118	R2T0K04R17SVA1	0451523377	821153252	Dracula (Signet Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Intense	Stoker's Dracula is in the unusual narrative form of the journal entries, news clippings, telegrams and letters between the unfortunate band of people drawn up in Dracula's wake as he attempts to trade in his life in the old country for the teeming streets of London.  With its unusual presentation, this novel must have been the Blair Witch of its day and has thoroughly withstood the test of time.  The journals blend seamlessly into short narratives and dialogues and, with the many voices and perspectives, build an undeniable tension throughout the book.  The end lacks no potency just because you think you know who is going to win in the end.<br />The movie form of Stoker's Dracula is close but no cigar. Though I sort of like the Hollywood added Dracula/Mina romance angle, it is not present in the book.  Jonathon Harker, a solicitor from London and the fianc&eacute;e of Wilhemina (Mina), is trapped in Dracula's castle after delivering the papers involved in the purchase of Carfax Abbey by the Count. Whiling away the time until Jonathon's return, Mina spends time with Lucy Westenra, who is not quite the coquette she is made out to be in the movies though she does have three suitors: John Seward who runs the sanitarium that abuts Carfax Abbey, Quincey Morris (an American adventurer), and Lord Goldalming (Arthur) whose proposal she has accepted.  When she falls mysteriously ill, Seward is called in who calls for his old mentor and professor, Van Helsing. Jonathon finally surfaces again in a foreign city requiring Mina's nursing, leaving the three former suitors and Van Helsing to battle for Lucy's soul against the Count.  When Jonathon's journal from the castle is eventually integrated into the experiences of the four men, an alarming picture becomes clear and they are vowed to pursue and destroy the monster. Stakes rise when Dracula attempts to use Mina against the tribe and their failure would ultimately mean the forfeiture of Mina's soul. Pardon the pun but blood runs high as the men pursue Dracula even back to his own castle while Mina struggles to maintain her gentler nature.<br />I was very impressed with how compelling a read this was given the narrative form and the differing conceptions of horror over the centuries. The eroticism has since paled, I think, as other authors have pushed that envelope a great deal farther since then but it seems an excellent snapshot of Victorian struggles against the baser natures of mankind.s high as the men pursue Dracula even back to his own castle while Mina struggles to maintain her gentler nature.<br />I was very impressed with how compelling a read this was given the narrative form and the differing conceptions of horror over the centuries. The eroticism has since paled, I think, as other authors have pushed that envelope a great deal farther since then but it seems an excellent snapshot of Victorian struggles against the baser natures of mankind.	2004-05-04
US	50724118	R39MF8EJL8518U	0812580036	365726027	Oliver Twist	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Biting Social Commentary, Pretty Good Story	Starting with Oliver's premature birth to a dying mother looked on by a gin-swilling nurse in a parish workhouse, Dickens tone is extremely satirical.  Though his meanings are clear, his craftsmanship with the English language is in rare form in the beginning of Oliver Twist.  The \\"distinguished and enlightened gentlemen\\" who's reform policies for the workhouse are raked over the coals in glowing language represent an unusual type of Dickens character for me.  Usually even Dicken's villains are multi-faceted characters whose motives we understand though disapprove of. Here, the Directors of the parish who eventually pay to get rid of Oliver, are difficult to conceive of.  The hardships of the workhouse inmates, more especially what seems like intentional starvation, seem hard to believe though as I read this book, the death of a foster child in New Jersey from starvation brought to light many things going on in twenty-first century reality which had seemed implausible in this nineteenth century novel. The satirical language is often humorous though the subject matter is not and makes the account more palatable. The first of the book is spent in this way which seems really to be more of Dicken's social commentary than pure story line.<br />In true Dickens style, each of the characters Oliver meets throughout the story are part of a larger, more elaborate plot line that the story is ever trying to unfold.  After being apprenticed to the coffinmaker Mr. Sowerberry, he is taunted by the charity boy - Noah Claypole - until he makes a break for London.  Accidentally falling into the clutches of local fence Fagin whose aim it is to turn him to a life of crime, Oliver struggles to break free with the help of various good hearted people he befriends along the way despite his situation. It is only through their help who believe in him against all odds that we find that Fagin's attempts to make Oliver into a thief or at least believe that he has broken the law is not entirely the result of chance.  As a shadowy figure going by the name of Monks attempts to remove proofs of Oliver's origins, it is up to his new friends to piece together the puzzle of Oliver's life and help him to break free once and for all from the poverty of his existence.<br />Until Oliver's friends get involved, I wasn't entirely grabbed by the story line but I don't know if that was from my inability to connect with the workhouse characters or my familiarity with the early part of the story.  Once they got involved and I was into a part of the story I knew nothing about, I did really get into it.  Like A Tale of Two Cities, I would say that this one starts a little slow but takes off towards the middle.  Unlike that novel, however, its lacks the profound nobility, with some characters having little value except as a vehicle in the commentary (like Mr. Bumble).  The Tale of Two Cities was not an out and out social commentary (it was hidden well within the folds of the pages) but I would have to say that Twist is. It is a good story, well worth reading, but its lasting value is not in the character of the orphan Oliver - it is in the passion of the author against the wrongs of the then welfare system.  It seems more to me to be a moralism: a tale to remind us of ourselves and to guard against the mistakes of the past and to ensure the lives of the vulnerable in the future.the result of chance.  As a shadowy figure going by the name of Monks attempts to remove proofs of Oliver's origins, it is up to his new friends to piece together the puzzle of Oliver's life and help him to break free once and for all from the poverty of his existence.  <br />Until Oliver's friends get involved, I wasn't entirely grabbed by the story line but I don't know if that was from my inability to connect with the workhouse characters or my familiarity with the early part of the story.  Once they got involved and I was into a part of the story I knew nothing about, I did really get into it.  Like A Tale of Two Cities, I would say that this one starts a little slow but takes off towards the middle.  Unlike that novel, however, its lacks the profound nobility, with some characters having little value except as a vehicle in the commentary (like Mr. Bumble).  The Tale of Two Cities was not an out and out social commentary (it was hidden well within the folds of the pages) but I would have to say that Twist is. It is a good story, well worth reading, but its lasting value is not in the character of the orphan Oliver - it is in the passion of the author against the wrongs of the then welfare system.  It seems more to me to be a moralism: a tale to remind us of ourselves and to guard against the mistakes of the past and to ensure the lives of the vulnerable in the future.	2004-03-02
US	50724118	R30SLA8UR7S0QP	0553212753	592774530	Little Women (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Like Reading Little House	This book is just as much fun to read at the age of 33 as it is at 13.  I laughed out loud and stifled sobs throughout the book as we watch the four March girls - Jo, Meg, Amy and Beth - turn from young girls to young wives.  As I read, I worried that that description sounded a bit boring although it really is an entertaining book.  Then it dawned on me that, as each chapter is a small vignette from the progress of their lives, this is a lot like watching Little House on the Prairie. This would be an exceptional book to read to children and is quite enjoyable for women of all ages to read for themselves.<br />It was a bit of a blow when reading the afterword to find that Louisa Alcott did not like the book. She had been pressured into writing it by her publisher and regarded it as \\"moral pap for the young\\", calling the first part \\"The Pathetic Family\\" and writing an alternative second part she called \\"Happy Women\\" in which the sisters flourished in professional careers in a community of spinsters. \\"Good Wives\\" obviously won out and I can't say that I am not happy about that.<br />One thing the book and the afterword did do is awaken an interest in Louisa May Alcott herself. This might be a wonderful place to start on a women's study given the disparity between the work produced and the authors ideals.<br />Whether you are interested in reading it for sheer enjoyment or as a \\"jumping off point\\" for broader studies, you will enjoy the book. It is almost impossible not to.	2004-02-22
US	50724118	RCUHJ6QE6VLF5	0553213539	691093854	The Invisible Man: A Grotesque Romance (Bantam Classic)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Impeccable plot, Lots of Action but little character depth	Wells' writing style is easy to read and enjoyable - it's clear that he had fun writing The Invisible Man.  The plot is truly impeccable, there is a great deal of action and the pace never slows. The only weakness here is character development. It is difficult to really care about any of the characters, even those that are hurt or killed by the Invisible Griffin.<br />The story begins when the bandaged invisible man comes to Iping to rent a room.  Though at first overjoyed to get a renter in the off season who doesn't quibble about the rates, Mr. & Mrs. Hall soon have their fill of their rude and truculent guest. When his suspicious behaviour begins to garner the attention of the rural citizens of Iping, the invisible man's rash and impudent reactions to them bring on a whirl of actions and reactions that ends up with the the Invisible man on the run and several of the citizens of Iping requiring medical attention.<br />Events continue to escalate out of control when he runs into an acquaintence from school, Dr. Kemp, who knew the invisible man as Mr. Griffin.  As Griffin explains how the story began, we lose all sympathy with our villain as we hear his callous treatment of his first victims prior to Iping.  He then comes to the idea that his only method of 'escape' from his troubles is to bring about a reign of terror and declares the city of Port Burdock to be under his reign and not that of the Queen. By this time we are wholly ready for the resolution which speedily ensues.<br />This story is not particularly scary although it had potential with the reign of terror bit.  Good character development would have enabled this to cross the science fiction genre a bit more but you can't argue with results.  As it is it will definitely be an enduring story and is well worth the read.	2004-02-09
US	50724118	R1TWUHSXMRMM9	0486424499	363093333	Jane Eyre (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	29	31	N	N	Fantastic! Loved it!	This turned out to be an exceptional book though I didn't think so in the beginning.  By what seems the hundredth page, I had decided it was a feminine version of David Copperfield but not as interesting. By the hundred and fiftieth page, I was completely discouraged and was sure it had turned into the very romantic mush I detest (a lot of what she feels about him and what he feels about her, and so on).  Somewhere soon after that, I fell in and was absorbed. It became a tremendously good book with a fantastic plot and a good pace. I read for hours and hours at a sitting enjoying every single minute of it and only stopped when something absolutely forced me. Excellent, excellent!<br />Jane Eyre is an orphaned child under the guardianship of her maternal aunt. Not liked by her aunt and not able to get along with her cousins, Jane is sent to Lowood School for the children of the poor (it is a charity school) to be taught the fundamentals and, more importantly, to be conditioned for a life of poor expectations.  Lowood changes the strong willed, impetuous Jane into a woman of uncommon restraint. When she accepts a post as governess to Adele at Thornfield Hall, she attracts the attention of Mr. Rochester, the master of the house, who has the desire to reclaim himself from a sordid past.  He comes to believe that Jane has the power to transform him and help him to realize himself in the better light that he has not heretofore been able to achieve on his own. But his secrets are not far away and peculiar events at Thornfield make the reader question his advances. Sworn not to ask about who or what is in the room on the third floor, Jane's iron resolve begins to falter with the dreamlike romance and the reader begins to trepiditiously hope for her happiness. When Mr. Rochester is unable to keep his past under wraps, however, Jane is forced onto a path that will require all of her internal resources to survive but will ultimately put her in the position to make choices for herself rather than just choose among available options.  The question is, with her conditioning, can she lead with her heart instead of her head?<br />My only legitimate greivance, and given only in the vein of humour, is that is seems like Jane would have taught Adele some English.  The child speaks only in French and myself not being able to read French, I did not understand anything the child ever said.  Luckily, her exuberance and intent still comes through and the reader can develop a softness for the child without understanding her dialogue.herself rather than just choose among available options.  The question is, with her conditioning, can she lead with her heart instead of her head?<br />My only legitimate greivance, and given only in the vein of humour, is that is seems like Jane would have taught Adele some English.  The child speaks only in French and myself not being able to read French, I did not understand anything the child ever said.  Luckily, her exuberance and intent still comes through and the reader can develop a softness for the child without understanding her dialogue.	2004-02-09
US	50724118	R1G6X0DVHM5GXF	0486266885	732800244	The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Enjoyable Story though Brief - Not as Detailed as I Expected	In this story, Mr. Utterson, lawyer and friend of Jekyll is trying through friendly concern to discover the truth about the young and disreputable Mr. Hyde who he believes is coercing the doctor. Jekyll is always one step ahead of him in covering up Hyde's true existence until Jekyll is no longer able to control his transformations and Utterson is called by the frightened servants to intervene. This was an enjoyable story though brief.<br /><br />Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde was remarkably subdued story from what I expected. Having seen the movie Mary Reilly previous to reading this book, I expected Mr. Hyde to be more fully developed. What Mr. Hyde does that is so 'evil' is never specified (I mean in terms of general lifestyle - the murder is covered). In fact, the only real reference we get to this life is the character of his dwelling and the presence there of penny novels (cheap, ill respected literature). Except for the murder of an undeveloped character and a general rudeness, we don't really get to know Mr. Hyde as the evil monster I expected.  Mr. Hyde is afraid to leave the lab for fear of the gallows but that is as close to a manhunt as we get, unlike in Frankenstein where the chase seems to cover half of the globe or in The Invisible Man were a serious manhunt provides a great deal of action and pace.  Mr. Hyde is also a great deal different from how he is represented by Hollywood (for instance, he is shorter than Dr. Jekyll).  I guess I was expecting a more likable or romantic villain giving rise to more of a dilemma in trying to destroy him.<br /><br />This story should be read. I am not trying to \\"dis'\\" it.  I just expected more out of it because later authors/producers pulled out of it way, way more than was in the original. What this story has is raw potential.	2004-02-09
US	50724118	R2EIJL2J8Z58MY	0141439602	365726027	A Tale of Two Cities (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Slow to Develop but Outstanding by the End	Unlike in David Copperfield or Great Expectations, Tale of Two Cities is not woven around one central and well defined character. In fact, character development does not really start until almost one hundred pages in - after several important and plot defining events.  This made the reading difficult for me at first, since all of the characters seemed sinister and blended into one another.  My advice is to stick with it and pay close attention to the treason trial in London. It is here that most of the critical characters are introduced and it contains vital keys for the full enjoyment of the rest of the book.  This failing is why I rank the book only a 4 star story.  The late character development does not undermine the book but it does not enhance it in my opinion.  Although Dickens does bring all of the pieces together with traditionally astounding skill, I was still left vague as to why some things early in the book happened or at least why they happened when they did.  This is unusual for a Dickens novel and surprising.<br />That being said, Tale of Two Cities blossoms into a wonderfully told story with the traditional rich Dickens characters and, expectedly, defies a one line description of the plot.  When a son of an Aristocratic French family renounces his lands and titles and makes a new life for himself in England, he is unexpectedly called into harm's way when he must return to clear the name of an old servant being held by the new French Republic for crimes he did not commit.  Encountering more trouble than he expected, it up to his father-in-law, a celebrated Patriot and ex-prisoner of the old regime, to find a way to save him.  However, when the truth comes out about the father-in-law's imprisonment, it does not appear that even true love can save the well intended son-in-law.	2004-01-24
US	50724118	RAFTUZGJ0SKK8	074140916X	673872544	Threads: The Reincarnation of Anne Boleyn	Books	4	69	73	N	N	Great Fiction for the Liberally Minded History Buff	Threads is a great book for the history buff.  Though it is fiction, it is more like a historical fiction (it has a bibliography in the back).  It is not quite a historical fiction either though as the disembodied spirit of Ann Boleyn relates in the first person the details of her life with Henry VIII as well as their relationships in several other lives, including more recently in America.  Although the context of the review is that this was just one of many lives, the bulk of the story deals exclusively with her life as Ann Boleyn with occasional references to a former life in Egypt as a wife turned prostitute and a enjoyable stint in a traveling circus in another time and place.<br />Ms. Gavin is careful to try to maintain historical accuracy about the characters involved even though this is a fictional novel.  A short notes section tells readers when she has deviated from accepted history in favor of plot.  I can't help but feel that the selection of the historical figure of Ann Boleyn constrained Ms. Gavin's apparent talent.  Each additional \\"character\\" is by nature a historical figure requiring ever more restraint by Gavin to maintain historical accuracy.  Therefore, there are comparatively fewer characters involved throughout the story than there might have been had the main character not been a figure of historical reknown. Character development of Hal and the Chinese mother-in-law, as well as dialogue between Ann and Henry in their American life shows that Ms. Gavin has what it takes to write enjoyable fiction.  I would love to see what she could do with her imagination not given such boundaries from the outset.	2004-01-24
US	50724118	R1NB1R3IECOB63	0446604666	198501177	Sick Puppy	Books	4	0	1	N	N	All is Fair in Love, War and Real Estate	Sick Puppy was a remarkably fast book, action packed with lots of humor. It all starts when Twilly Spree starts stalking a litterbug along a Florida highway.  His pranks, targeted at getting Palmer Stoat to realize the error of throwing trash from his car, don't seem to really connect until Stoat's wife and dog get involved. Twilly fast goes from juvenile pranks to serious action as one thing leads to another and the cast begins to fill with more and more hilariously sinister characters.  From a Barbie fixated land developer with a hit man on retainer to a used car salesman turned governor who dredges up a loose cannon from the past, all is fair in love, war and real estate.	2004-01-24
US	50724118	R2YFGTM7Z0S1VN	0486264645	489174445	Heart of Darkness (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	2	19	29	N	Y	Too Abstract for My Taste in Pleasure Reading	I never got through this in college though it was assigned. Then I tried again to read it several months ago and just could not get past the prose;  however, when I went back to find specific examples of sentence fragments and awkward prose, I did not find them.  When I really studied each line, it made sense and did not seem so awkward.  I ended up setting the book aside and read something else that did not require as much effort ... like David Copperfield.  Personally, I think that that alone speaks volumes about this work.<br />I have now read this story out of sheer determination.  Slowing my reading pace to be able to absorb each sentence,  I find many of the descriptions quite vivid and beautiful though I still resent the awkwardness of the prose and the fragmented and spliced sentences (which I did find this time around). For example of a common type of splice, \\"Once a white man in an unbuttoned uniform, camping on the path with an armed escort of lank Zanzibaris, very hospitable and festive - not to say drunk.  Was looking after the upkeep of the road he declared.\\" Fragments and long lists of items are common in descriptions: \\"A rocky cliff appeared, mounds of turned up earth by the shore, houses on a hill, others with iron roofs, amongst a waste of excavations, or hanging to the declivity.\\"  In one of the beginning scenes he describes two women, one fat and one thin, but when he comes back to them they are the old one and the young one. Then towards the end one of them is described as the one with the cat. An example of what I would call awkward prose is: [In reference to the statement that women live in a world all of their own making unfettered by reality]. \\"Some confounded fact we men have been living contentedly with ever since the day of creation would start up and knock the whole thing over.\\"<br />I was really disappointed with what I got for the effort with this story.  There is not terribly much story. Marlowe recounts the story of his trip up the near virgin Congo to retrieve Mr. Kurtz, an agent in the trading company who is surrounded by mystery for both those that merely hear of his exploits and those who live around him.  Meeting Kurtz and determining the status of his mental condition is the crux and climax of the story. That really is about it.  The whole drama to the book is to be drawn by the contrast of \\"civilized\\" and \\"primeval\\" and a study of the characters.  This may be okay in a classroom where many people can collectively infer traits from the characters after several hours of discussion but is too abstract for my tastes in pleasure reading.e near virgin Congo to retrieve Mr. Kurtz, an agent in the trading company who is surrounded by mystery for both those that merely hear of his exploits and those who live around him.  Meeting Kurtz and determining the status of his mental condition is the crux and climax of the story. That really is about it.  The whole drama to the book is to be drawn by the contrast of \\"civilized\\" and \\"primeval\\" and a study of the characters.  This may be okay in a classroom where many people can collectively infer traits from the characters after several hours of discussion but is too abstract for my tastes in pleasure reading.	2004-01-24
US	50724118	R3ID582IJU0SYV	0553212583	363093333	Wuthering Heights (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Chilling Story of Love and Revenge, Mostly Revenge	I had avoided Wuthering Heights because I thought it was purely a love story and a corny one at that. Pleasantly surprised is a tremendous understatement.  This was fantastic.  There is no scene - in the book at least - with Heathcliff and Catherine running into each other's arms across the moors. That must have been from a sappy movie version. In fact, there are no scenes like that - no mindless romantic drivel at all.  The preface of my copy actually said that the book was not that successful during Bronte's time because the characters were altogether \\"too odiously and abominably pagan to suit the tastes of even the most shameless class of English readers\\" (as stated by the Quarterly Review).<br />It is certainly dark. Wuthering Heights is the story of Heathcliff who, spurned by Catherine, wreaks havoc on the lives of everyone who has ever had anything to do with him, covering three generations.  Is it a love story? Well, yes ... sort of. Catherine did passionately love Heathcliff (as he did her) but nothing ever comes of that, at least in the traditional sense. The extent of  Wuthering Heights being a love story to me is the inevitable question of \\"If Catherine had married Heathcliff would things have been different?\\" Given the almost demoniacal personality Heathcliff bears throughout the book, I hardly think so.<br />If you have only ever seen the movie, you have only heard half of the story - literally - and that is extremely \\"brightened\\" from the novel's intrinsic dark and spooky overtones. This is one of those books when finished, I found myself wandering around saying, \\"Wow, that was a good book\\".  I even waited a few days before starting another.	2004-01-24
US	50724118	R2PP15GUEHDVIH	0140367470	839463326	The Three Musketeers (Puffin Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Action Packed High Adventure - Wonderful!	My only exposure to the Three Musketeers having been the Disney movie, I was absolutely blown away by the book. Blown Away!!! The plot of that movie bears no resemblance to the book beyond the names of the characters and the personalities of the musketeers.<br />Our young Gascon, D'Artagnan, sets out for Paris on a laughable horse with a letter of introduction from his father to M. Treville, the Captain of the King's Musketeers.  Fiercely protective of his dignity and consequently always ready for a fight, he does not make it to Paris before he loses his letter to a mysterious man in Meung who appears throughout the novel, each time sending D'Artagnan on a mad rush of vengeance despite whatever else is going on at the moment.<br />The King and the Cardinal have a competitive friendship that centers on the Cardinal's Guards and the King's Musketeers, each wanting his men to be the superior force.  When D'Artagnan meets M. Treville and is placed in a regiment where he can prove his worth to be a musketeer, we meet Porthos, Aramis and a wounded Athos who have recently sparred with the Cardinal's Guard.  He quickly runs afoul of each separately and is set to duel each an hour apart at the old ruins.  As the swords cross, the Cardinal's Guards arrive to arrest them for their intent to duel.  They come together to vanguish the Cardinal's men and thus begin the first in a series of skirmishes that make the three musketeers and D'Artagnan seem increasingly invincible in the eye's of the King, M Treville and, most importantly, the Cardinal.<br />Almost immediately, D'Artagnan falls into the palace intrigues, drawing the three musketeers willingly with him. The Lord Duke of Buckingham is madly in love with the queen, Anne of Austria, and takes silly chances to see her, much to everyone's peril. The King is furious not out of love for Anne but because he sees it as an affront to himself.  He is much less concerned that she may be plotting against his reign as the Cardinal suggests than he is that she might be entertaining a dalliance with Lord Buckingham.  All the Cardinal has to do is prove that the two have been in contact to unleash the King's fury on Anne.  But when D'Artagnan, Athos, Porthos and Aramis become involved, that is a very difficult thing to do.  Matters get more involved when Buckingham invades France and the Cardinal enlists the aid of the beautiful Lady de Winter who had already been trying to kill D'Artagnan for her own personal reasons.<br />There is SO much action and there are SO many intrigues, this must be one of the most entertaining books I have ever read.  And funny!  I laughed out loud when I found out what had happened to Athos after the first mission and I was incredulous and amused by the foursome antics on the battlefield of Rochelle, defending alone a recently taken position against a series of attacks just so they can have breakfast and discuss plans without being overheard!<br />Word to the wise: Buy more Musketeer books.  I am waiting to read The Man in the Iron Mask until I can get Ten Years After and Twenty Years Later.  (I'm told they don't have to be read in order but I can be persnickity that way)> I wished that I already had them on hand.uggests than he is that she might be entertaining a dalliance with Lord Buckingham.  All the Cardinal has to do is prove that the two have been in contact to unleash the King's fury on Anne.  But when D'Artagnan, Athos, Porthos and Aramis become involved, that is a very difficult thing to do.  Matters get more involved when Buckingham invades France and the Cardinal enlists the aid of the beautiful Lady de Winter who had already been trying to kill D'Artagnan for her own personal reasons.<br />There is SO much action and there are SO many intrigues, this must be one of the most entertaining books I have ever read.  And funny!   I laughed out loud when I found out what had happened to Athos after the first mission and I was incredulous and amused by the foursome antics on the battlefield of Rochelle, defending alone a recently taken position against a series of attacks just so they can have breakfast and discuss plans without being overheard!<br />Word to the wise: Buy more Musketeer books.  I am waiting to read The Man in the Iron Mask until I can get Ten Years After and Twenty Years Later.  (I'm told they don't have to be read in order but I can be persnickity that way)> I wished that I already had them on hand.	2003-12-13
US	50724118	R32HNZPU5BWV5	0679783415	976358997	David Copperfield (Modern Library Classics)	Books	5	126	131	N	N	The Consummate Dickens	David Copperfield uses the story of Copperfield's life from birth through middle life to introduce and explore some wonderful personalities.  Look more for deep and penetrating character studies than a fast moving plot line.  It is not character study alone, however. Again and again, through many characters and many instances, he seems to really explore \\"the first mistaken impulse of an undisciplined heart\\", and that \\"there can be no disparity in marriage like unsuitability of mind and purpose\\".  Look for these themes to come in from the very beginning and continue until they are actually spelled out by one character and contemplated by another.<br />When David is born, his father is already buried in the churchyard nearby.  He, his mother, and their servant Pegotty live happily enough as a family until his mother remarries.  The new husband does not like frivolity or friendly association with servants but more than that, he does not like David.  David is sent off to boarding school and then sent out to work.  Barred from his mother's affections by his stepfather, Pegotty becomes a full mother figure and his ties to her and her family only deepen with time.  Through her, he meets her brother, Mr. Pegotty; her nephew?, Ham, the widow Mrs. Gummidge and Mr. Pegotty's niece, Emily. At school, he makes fast friends with many boys but most especially with the privileged James Steerforth and the not so privileged Tommy Traddles, both of whom show up again in David's adulthood. In the bottling warehouse where he is sent to work as a child, he lodges with Mr. And Mrs. Micawber who are always in debt. They also show up again in his adulthood. When the station of life that he is being forced into at his tender age becomes too much for him, he escapes to seek out his eccentric great aunt Betsey Trotwood who takes him in and provides for him.  Through her, he meets her lawyer, Mr. Wickfield, his daughter Agnes, Dr. Strong and his youthful bride, Annie and we mustn't forget Uriah Heep.  He marries, works hard and becomes successful. These are the majority of the characters and it encompasses more than half of the novel to get to this point.  (In my copy, that was just over four hundred and forty pages).<br />The only slow part is after David finishes school and before he meets his wife.  That part did seem to move slowly but, apart from that, the story moves very, very well and -after all the characters are set up and well developed - it takes off like a rocket and is difficult to put down without worrying about the various characters predicaments and wondering how he is going to pull all of these strings together.  This IS Dickens after all.  I won't spoil the meat of the plot line for you.  Again, look for those themes - \\"the first mistaken impulse of an undisciplined heart\\", and  \\"there can be no disparity in marriage like unsuitability of mind and purpose\\".<br />David Copperfield is, if such things are possible, like a \\"Best Of\\" Dickens.  It is one very substantial novel and stands alone as an exquisite masterpiece.  Yet so many characters from his other novels seem to return here to be rounded out and more deeply developed.  David Copperfield (himself) reminds me of Pip of Great Expectations, Betsey Trotwood of  Miss Havisham, Mr. Micawber of Magwitch,  and Agnes of Biddy.  Mr. Murdstone seems to be of the Gradgrind line from Hard Times.  One character reminded me not of another character in Dicken's work but of the vile character from Les Miserables (Victor Hugo) who repeatedly attempted to extort or do harm to Jean Valjean and Marius. It would be fun to have read all of Dicken's work before reading David Copperfield just to see Dicken's feelings of the various character types and  what time has done to them in his mind.  Of course, like any \\"Best Of\\", you could read only this one work and have a deep and abiding appreciation of Dickens without having read any of his others.Heep.  He marries, works hard and becomes successful. These are the majority of the characters and it encompasses more than half of the novel to get to this point.  (In my copy, that was just over four hundred and forty pages).<br />The only slow part is after David finishes school and before he meets his wife.  That part did seem to move slowly but, apart from that, the story moves very, very well and -after all the characters are set up and well developed - it takes off like a rocket and is difficult to put down without worrying about the various characters predicaments and wondering how he is going to pull all of these strings together.  This IS Dickens after all.  I won't spoil the meat of the plot line for you.  Again, look for those themes - \\"the first mistaken impulse of an undisciplined heart\\", and  \\"there can be no disparity in marriage like unsuitability of mind and purpose\\".<br />David Copperfield is, if such things are possible, like a \\"Best Of\\" Dickens.  It is one very substantial novel and stands alone as an exquisite masterpiece.  Yet so many characters from his other novels seem to return here to be rounded out and more deeply developed.  David Copperfield (himself) reminds me of Pip of Great Expectations, Betsey Trotwood of  Miss Havisham, Mr. Micawber of Magwitch,  and Agnes of Biddy.  Mr. Murdstone seems to be of the Gradgrind line from Hard Times.  One character reminded me not of another character in Dicken's work but of the vile character from Les Miserables (Victor Hugo) who repeatedly attempted to extort or do harm to Jean Valjean and Marius. It would be fun to have read all of Dicken's work before reading David Copperfield just to see Dicken's feelings of the various character types and  what time has done to them in his mind.  Of course, like any \\"Best Of\\", you could read only this one work and have a deep and abiding appreciation of Dickens without having read any of his others.	2003-10-31
US	50724118	R3N9FO4JBWM6UW	0743453255	825640350	Forrest Gump	Books	5	45	53	N	N	Off the Scale Funny	While I was reading it (I had seen the movie prior), I thought that the movie followed the book about one third or even one half of the way but then the book just took off in a ninety degree turn and it was one incredible adventure after another - and I mean incredible literally. It has to have been one of the funniest things I have ever read. At the time, I thought it was as if the author thought mid-way through the book 'Heck, I'm the author - I can do whatever I want' ... and did. The unbridled imagination is thoroughbred. Best thing to do is get the movie and the book and compare them. The movie is first rate but the book is exquisitely funny - much more than the movie.	2003-10-20
US	50724118	R10EG3S1B18PZC	0944510191	618442747	Boater's Guide to Lake Powell: Featuring Hiking, Camping, Geology, History and Archaeology (4th Edition)	Books	5	23	25	N	Y	Excellent Reference Book	From what I can tell, Kelsey appears to be the foremost authority on Lake Powell and the surrounding area.  I can't see how you could get more information out of another book.  That being said, it isn't the kind of book you read cover to cover for sheer enjoyment of reading and learning.  Think of it as a user manual for the lake and you will be on the right track.  There are a lot of pictures (in black and white) and a lot of very detailed maps and informative graphs. To use this book, I would suggest that you plan your trip and then consult the book to see what it says about that area.  If there is ANYTHING of interest to be seen there, it will tell you where and what it is.<br />It is divided into the following parts:<br />I - Condensed history of the lake area (19 pages) - very fact filled (survey like).<br />II - The marinas on Lake Powell and other possible launch sites along with weather and climate for each season, a word about hiking season and equipment, photography and film type, insects and pest, drinking water, and places to camp and their fees.<br />III - Geology, the types of stone seen in the colorful strata and suggested maps for the area.<br />Then it launches into sites of interest in the area and gives good maps (quite technical) of each.  There are 34 of these and may well cover all of the canyons and hikes on the lake. If you want to get the most out of your trip, I would highly recommend this book. If you were wanting to just read about the history of the area, it will be about as much fun as reading the dictionary.	2003-10-17
US	50724118	RL2G74TULPB0X	1887896430	540027170	Arizona: A Cavalcade of History, Second Edition	Books	3	8	13	N	Y	Good textbook but mediocre for self study	I have been spoiled by history books like the one on Texas by Fehrenbach and The Devil Knows how to Ride on Quantrell.  This book is NOT a bad history book.  However, it is very choppy and is difficult to use to learn about Arizona if you know nothing about it to start with.  My biggest problem initially was that I am not familiar with the geography so references to the Colorado Plateau left me cold without a map.  References to cities that weren't mapped also gave me problems.<br />Trimbell does have an exceptional sense of humour and that does come out in the book.  It is probably the first history book to make me laugh.  However, when he starts getting down and dirty with facts, it just doesn't have a flow to it that helps me put things together.  For instance, one of the first chapters is on the indigenous peoples of Arizona.  He goes down the list and says that these people lived here and this is how they lived and this is where they are now (if they still exist). But there are so many different tribes and their stories are so isolated from the others that I now get them all mixed up in my head or their involvement in Arizona history simply holds no meaning for me.<br />From this book, I get the distinct impression that Arizona simply does not have the kind of rich history that Texas has.  It currently appears that people may have passed through Arizona but, by and large, the state simply has never been settled. 70% of the population lives in the 2 major cities, Phoenix and Tucson, so this hypothesis may be correct.  However, I will withhold my judgment on that until I find a more exhaustive history book on the state.	2003-10-17
US	50724118	R1478IE00GRYLV	B00005XC4O	741647069	Chapters in church history	Books	5	6	6	N	N	One of the most authoritative books on the subject	This is an excellent resource and enjoyable reading.  I got my frayed copy from a garage sale and have replaced it through Amazon so it will last longer.  Rev. Dawley is a prominent figure in the Anglican church and Chapters in Church History is the story of the formation of the church from the very beginning all the way through to the founding of the Anglican Church and its offshoots in America.  This is like sitting down with a grandfather who is interesting to listen to.  He is very comfortable with his subject and makes writing history and making it interesting look easy.<br />He covers a lot of topics I have never seen handled before - the schisms in the early church over the Gnostic beliefs, the schism over apostates, the various councils and how the Creeds got started (like the Nicene Creed),the move of the Catholic church to Avignon, the drowning of the Anabaptists, and the beginnings of other protestant religions like the Wesley's involvement with the Moravians and how his followers came to be called Methodists. He also goes into depth to explain how the Anglican church derives it authority and how that was communicated to the Americas in the Episcopal tradition.  It was the first time I understood the concept of the eucharist.<br />Very interesting, very informative, very good buy.	2003-09-30
US	50724118	R1ODK7WNDGZXIU	0684801469	11530247	A Farewell To Arms	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Sentimental Hemingway??	Frederick Henry is an American enlisted with the Italians as an ambulance driver on the front lines when he meets Scottish born Catherine Barkley working in the hospital where he is stationed.  Their love story juxtaposed against the deprecations of war and the injustices of life goes a long way towards explaining Hemingway himself. How could a man hold up under these kinds of circumstances?<br /><br />I could never get into The Old man and the Sea ... both times I got to page 15 and was distracted away from it.  Imagine my surprise when, after only about half an hour I had read 78 pages of A Farewell to Arms.  This is an easy, fast paced book to read and I have really come to appreciate his writing style.  More than that, I have come to appreciate the dark cloud that I have always seemed to associate with him.<br />Classic Hemingway: \\"That is what you did. You died.  You did not know what it was about.  You never had time to learn.  They threw you in and told you the rules and the first time they caught you off base they killed you.  Or killed you gratuitously...\\"	2003-09-27
US	50724118	R2RQHJV6HL7YSD	0452284449	667500496	The Virgin Blue: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Talented Author, Well Crafted Story	Chevalier has a gift.  She can literally weave a story as if it were a tapestry.  One set of strings is Ella Tournier and the other is Isabelle de Moulin.  Throughout the story, she weaves first one set and then the other and the finished work - when you are able to look back and see what the weaving has wrought - is truly a work of art.  Sorry to be cryptic but this book does not lend itself to delineating a plot and spotlighting the cliffhanger. Fantastic book - great story and lots of talent.	2003-09-22
US	50724118	R23PTMYBZ6PYLZ	0553213415	73897934	Madame Bovary (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	10	14	N	N	Portrait of a sociopath	With the emotional maturity of a fourteen or fifteen year old girl or possibly just the sociopathic tendencies,  Emma (Madame Bovary) is at the same time fascinating and detestable.  She is remarkably similar to many stories of ex wives I have heard over the years and, if living in this century would certainly have had a string of husbands, using and abusing each one while they loved her.  This story does not have the repentant air of Moll Flanders (Defoe) and I would not recommend it to a young girl. That being said, it is not the `dirty' book I expected.<br />Emma is the kind of person who idealizes what she does not have, expects love to come with thunderbolts and poetry and to stay that way for all time.  From her education at the convent to her life on her father's farm, to her marriage to Charles Bovary and through two prolonged affairs with other men, reality can never live up to Emma's expectations of what it should be like.  Once the novelty wears off, she thinks there is something wrong with where she is or who she is with. In her mind, she feels that she deserves this imagined ideal and directs her hatred on whomever she feels is standing between her and the experience of the ideal. This, unfortunately, is most often her loving husband, Charles (although her parents, lovers and money lenders are not immune from her contempt either).  Charles continually gets a bad rap from reviewers for being stupid and cowardly.  I found him to be neither extreme.  Not a dullard, he is naïve and trusting.  He is very much a middle of the road man in my eyes - not the cream of the crop but not the dregs either.  Just your average everyday man making a living and supporting a wife who he thinks the absolute world of.<br />There is a strong possibility that this is a fictionalized account of a real woman and this is an important point for me.  If simply fictional, it is so realistic it is depressing. There is no author's invention to make the reader feel better about what has happened.t has happened.	2003-09-18
US	50724118	R2FW71CQCUOMQU	0375751513	317139448	The Picture of Dorian Gray (Modern Library Classics)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Outstanding	I expected Dorian Gray to be rather dry and restrained when I picked it up.  However, it is anything but!  This is an enjoyable fast paced novel.<br />Basil Hawthorne paints his masterpiece inspired by (and the portrait of) Dorian Gray.  In the blush of innocence, Dorian begins to spend time with Basil's friend, Lord Henry who revels in making shocking statements and defying social protocols.  A quick study, Dorian takes this to new levels as he - spurred on by Lord Henry and his own vanity - winds his way down a road of moral corruption all the while horrified at the changes on the canvas.  When Basil decides that he would like to exhibit the portait (unaware of what has become of the portait while hidden away by Dorian), Dorian can no longer hide the flaws that have been for so long protected from outside eyes.	2003-09-16
US	50724118	R2UHGRKXRHKIEQ	0141439564	365726027	Great Expectations (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Great Introduction to Dickens	Written as a serial publication, Great Expectations is very fast paced and the character development is superb.  It is also very easy to read.  The plot is well developed and the number of characters and the interaction of subplots is masterful.<br />When a terrified four year old Pip is coerced into bringing an escaped convict food, he sets into motion a chain of events that will determine the direction of his life and explain that of others.   Having served in the house of Miss Havisham, a woman jilted on her wedding day and filled with hate and revenge for the male species, Pip receives notice of &quot;great expecations&quot; - the term for the potential inheritance of a large fortune.  From his humble origins as the son of a blacksmith, he is destined to become a gentleman.  But the identity of his mysterious benefactor continues to haunt him. And the lovely Estella, for whom he craves, could she be part of this inheritance?  Why is someone grooming him to be a gentleman?  Who?  All these questions and more are answered as the story unfolds in this powerful work.	2003-09-16
US	50724118	RC1ZSYLDFAQXS	0553210165	641528927	Hard Times (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Excellent	Hard Times is first and foremost a burning indictment on industrialism and the total reliance on reason without consideration for emotions.  It is also a great novel.  I didn't get quite the same connection with the characters as in Great Expectations - I can't readily recall their names after a few months - but I know them and can remember vividly the scenes that he painted them in.<br />Again there are several sub plots which drive the point home and wrap the novel up in such a tight and well thought out way that only Dickens could have written this.  The main character, for me, is Louisa, raised under conventional wisdom on only dry facts and reason.  As such, she is completely unable to cope with real life.  She is married to Bounderby, who owns the local bank while her brother, Tom, works for him.  Bounderby claims to been raised in the gutter, abandoned by his parents, and to have raised himself up by his bootstraps.  Each character has built for themselves a house of cards which are destined to come tumbling down revealing all the flaws, all the lies and the fundamental errors of their thinking.  The only person left unscathed is the abandoned circus girl who, like Biddy in Great Expectations, reminds us that the people we overlook may just be the best ones out of the bunch.	2003-09-16
US	50724118	R247IJH0W1DA6B	044653126X	391817798	Birth of an Age: Book Two of the Christ Clone Trilogy	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Even better than the first one!	Having enjoyed the first one, I am amazed by the second.  When I finished the first book, I wasn't absolutely sure who was going to be the antichrist.  There was the obvious choice but I was hoping with all my might that it would not be so.  Now that I have finished the second book and the antichrist has been revealed, he is still such a good guy I don't want to believe it!<br />The second book takes us from the beginning of the plagues predicted by the two witnesses up to the ascension of the antichrist to a position of governing the world.  Expert attention is paid to the impact of two asteroids that wipe out all life in their path and cause widespread famine as a result of impact related volcanic activity and tsunamis.  The fall out fom a third taints much of the water.<br />Meanwhile, after confronting Ambassador Faure, Christopher Goodman looks like the favored choice to follow Hansen as Secretary General.  Still seen through the eyes of Decker, Christopher is as innocent as the fourteen year old boy we initially met in Book One.  Could he really be the antichrist? Or could the 2,000 year old apostle John actually be trying to fulfill his own prophecies?  If John is somehow behind it all, how can we be sure that any of what is written in Revelations is a certainty?  And what about Christopher's story of the origin of the species being from Theata, a planet of highly evolved beings? Which is the perversion - his story or ours?<br />The biggest question is, for me, is the antichrist ever going to seem evil?? So far, he is so perfect that it is not even imaginable.  I can't wait for the third book!	2003-09-10
US	50724118	R2WL706R1Z5TR3	0451527097	705074922	One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich (Signet Classics)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Compelling - Very vivid	I tried to read this in my twenties and just couldn't appreciate the harshness of the prison camps at that age.  Reading it again in my thirties, I find it a compelling story.  Short and well told, it covers one day from reveille (5 AM) to lights out (around 10 PM) in a Russian prison camp. Prisoners were never allowed to see a clock and he said the night check at 9 PM always resulted in a recount so you never went to bed before 10.  Ivan Denisovich, called Shukov throughout the book (or S-854 by his warders), takes us through  his pre-roll call activities (trying to get on the sick list and a near miss with being thrown in \\"the can\\"), through roll call and the process of going out to the work site, how they were assigned and how the actual work day went, the process of checking back into the work camp and evening activities like the evening meal and receipt of packages, all the way up to lights out.<br />Of course it is not the actual activities that make the story so compelling.  The actual activities are actually quite mundane and boring. It is the extent of the deprivation, the harshness of the conditions and the many various personalities that are so well described that you can see them, their mannerisms and expressions, in your mind's eye. Many of the men were considered spies after escaping from German POW camps - some only made a comment somewhere out of line.  Each man comes through clear.  Take Captain, a loyal old naval officer who's only crime was to receive a souvenir from a British admiral engraved \\"in Gratitude\\". He is a staunch Communist and party man and a little too outspoken to make it in the camp though his fellow members of gang 104 try to help him out.  Then there is Alyoska, the Baptist.  His is true faith - \\"... you mustn't pray for somebody to send you a package or for an extra helping of gruel.  Things that people set store by are base in the sight of the Lord.  You must pray for the things of the spirit so the Lord will take evil things from our hearts.\\"<br />And there is Tyurin, the tough but well respected gang boss ... and Der, a camp 'bureacrat' who tries to goes against him.<br />Good men (most of them), good book ... worth a few hours to read.om our hearts.\\"<br />And there is Tyurin, the tough but well respected gang boss ... and Der, a camp 'bureacrat' who tries to goes against him.<br />Good men (most of them), good book ... worth a few hours to read.	2003-09-03
US	50724118	R277ZZMPQRFJKM	0553211439	997665202	A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court (Bantam Classics)	Books	3	10	12	N	N	Great Satire but not on same level with Letters From Earth	Twain has a way of taking something that we commonly idealize and shooting holes all through it. Where Letters From Earth took aim at religious belief, this time its Camelot. This is a good satire although not as strong as Letters which is a five star multiple reading kind of book.<br />In Connecicut Yankee, the author runs across Hank Morgan on a tour of Warwick Castle. They \\"fell together as modest people will in the tail of a herd being shown through\\".  Morgan, however, has an uncommon familiarity with the objects shown and he eventually ends up relating the story of a Connecticut Yankee to Twain after a few hot Scotch whiskeys.<br />Morgan, it seems, after a crack on the head, found himself transported back to King Arthur's time. After being captured by Sir Kay and being delivered to the Round Table as a trophy, Henry Morgan asserts himself as a master magician over Merlin and sets himself up as \\"The Boss\\".  He then begins to secretly initiate improvements and reforms such as setting up a clandestine WestPoint, installing telephone lines, starting manufacturing centers and training journalists - all the while balancing the Church and the traditional castes of the country.  A misheard comment lands him scheduled to duel Sir Sagramore but is postponed for Sagramore's crusading stint.  In the meantime and in preparation for the undetermined date of the duel, Arthur assigns Morgan to the aid of a young girl who comes to the table claiming that a number of princesses are being held captive by ogres.  From there he goes on to \\"magically\\" fix the Holy Fountains, a spring to which people pilgrimage but has stopped flowing and then, with King Arthur in tow, attempts to travel as a commoner and lands in a world of trouble after he and the King are taken as slaves. It is a fun story with a lot of humorous situations.  This is why it is recommended to young readers, I suppose.<br />However, Twain's biting sarcasm makes it a good book for adults too.  His antecdotes are vehicles for pointing out the absurdity of the concept of nobility, the probability that the belief in ogres and magicians meant that the people of the time were largely ignorant and gullible. And in their ignorance, they are cruel.  Time and again we come back to this theme. But, back to the sarcasm.  For example, one of his methods of getting rid of knights is by turning them into traveling salespeople of various household sundries!<br />Additional meanings, interpretations, etc. are explored in the afterword and, honestly, unless it had been pointed out I would not have caught it at all. I didn't see this as a treatise on the nature of man although, once explained, I saw that that was there.  I enjoyed this simply as a light satirical story.vehicles for pointing out the absurdity of the concept of nobility, the probability that the belief in ogres and magicians meant that the people of the time were largely ignorant and gullible. And in their ignorance, they are cruel.  Time and again we come back to this theme. But, back to the sarcasm.  For example, one of his methods of getting rid of knights is by turning them into traveling salespeople of various household sundries! <br />Additional meanings, interpretations, etc. are explored in the afterword and, honestly, unless it had been pointed out I would not have caught it at all. I didn't see this as a treatise on the nature of man although, once explained, I saw that that was there.  I enjoyed this simply as a light satirical story.	2003-09-01
US	50724118	R2B2U9K72ADRFE	0446613274	451794091	In His Image: Book One of the Christ Clone Trilogy	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Fantastic!	The story kicks off when journalist Decker Hawthorne, editor of a small newspaper in Knoxville, serendipitously replaces the assistant of his former professor on a scientific study of the Shroud of Turin.  Despite remarkable test results, the Shroud is subsequently determined to not be authentic under the Carbon 14 testing.  So, when Professor Goodman takes a closer look years later, how is he to explain the presence of live cells taken from the shroud?<br />While Professor Goodman sets out to study the cells with hopes of developing major leaps in medicine and ultimately proving the source of the cells to be extraterristrail, Decker is sworn to secrecy in exchange for exclusives.  When he learns that Goodman has cloned the cells, can he keep quiet about the true identity of Goodman's adopted son?<br />This is all just the beginning of a fantastic plot that sees Decker and a comrade kidnapped by Islamic terrorists, subsequently rescued and then deeply embroiled in the activities in Israel and the life of Christopher, the result of the cloning process. This is a very well written book and the author does not take the plot for granted.  It is at no point predictable but it is also at no point implausible.  The world events - war between Russia and Israel, Pakistan and India, the restructuring of the UN after &quot;the Disaster&quot; decimates the population, and the power struggles - all make sense in the given time line and context.  This is written as a novel and not a bible study.  In fact, it is not until near the end of the book that any allusions to Revelations even come up.  And then, it may not be the exact story that you expected.  For example, what if Judas had actually been a patsy for the apostle John?  After all, it was John who wrote the book of Revelations.	2003-08-31
US	50724118	R2L4YPODJN5DTA	0553213113	551860371	Moby-Dick (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Classic for Contemplation	Moby Dick could easily be broken into parts and studied over a full semester in a college class and still that would only break the surface - and that is how it should be approached by the reader as well, I think.  This is not like a Steinbeck or Dickens novel which can be thoroughly enjoyed without necessarily interpreting it.  The whole point of Moby Dick is the search for the deeper meaning - by its characters and by its readers. Let me put it this way - if only the \\"action sequences\\" of the actual search for the whale where cut out and put together as the only part of the story, it might be 50 pages instead of over 500. Maybe 150 pages, but you get my point.<br />Told from the perspective of one of his crew, the Pequod sets off on a whaling voyage under the enigmatic Captain Ahab. Ahab, maimed by the white whale on his previous voyage, has sworn himself to vengeance on the whale. He proves an inspiring captain in the beginning and the crew takes an oath to find Moby Dick with him.  But as the omens mount up and additional reports of the whale's ferocity, it becomes clear that this obsession could take everyone to their grave and that Ahab would have his vengeance even at that expense.<br />There is no doubt in reading this that it is a masterpiece and, overall, I enjoyed it.  I found it very slow going though.  There are a couple of reasons for this, I think.  One, most of the chapters are very short - maybe one or two pages in some cases  - so I stopped reading more often than I normally would.  Secondly, Melville digresses from the actual story line of Ahab numerous times to go into depth on the types of whales there are, what pictures/paintings of them have been made throughout time and how close to reality they are, why the industry of whaling should be considered more glorious and honorific, how the whale line is secured, and specific anatomical descriptions of the whale's head, spout, flukes, etc. This occurs more in the first half than the second so, naturally, the first part seemed a lot slower (I also nodded off quite a bit in the first part). However, all of this is necessary for the proper interpretation and experience of the novel - they aren't side rants!<br />I was surprised to find so much humor in the book, both situational comedy and  literary sarcasms. On the allegorical level, I don't think I can fully grasp the whole scale in one reading.  There is a whole chapter on the significance of Moby Dick being white but there was also a sentence in there poking fun at those that would attach too much meaning. Amid constant references to the deity like qualities of the white whale, I at times was not sure if the whale personified God or the Devil.aturally, the first part seemed a lot slower (I also nodded off quite a bit in the first part). However, all of this is necessary for the proper interpretation and experience of the novel - they aren't side rants!<br />I was surprised to find so much humor in the book, both situational comedy and  literary sarcasms. On the allegorical level, I don't think I can fully grasp the whole scale in one reading.  There is a whole chapter on the significance of Moby Dick being white but there was also a sentence in there poking fun at those that would attach too much meaning. Amid constant references to the deity like qualities of the white whale, I at times was not sure if the whale personified God or the Devil.	2003-07-28
US	50724118	R16JLUE98OXD77	1879360128	964580935	White Men Don't Have Juju: An American Couple's Adventure Through Africa	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Eye opener	I can't corroborate the truthfulness of this book as I have never been to Africa and probably never will. However, the book seems to have the 'ring of truth' to it.  It is very well written - entertaining, easy to follow and informative.<br />The writers shun the traditional type of tourism where huge sums are paid to see the big game and the tourists who recount there African travels by the number and types of game they saw.  On a shoe string budget, they covered a huge expanse of the country befriending natives along the way and giving and receiving help from them and other tourists. Their accounts of each country they were in, they people they met and the things that happen make the reader feel as if they followed along with them and leaves the flavor of each country with the reader.<br />I found the problems that they faced when they got down to the southeastern part of their journey particularly eye opening.  There they faced a corrupt police force, encountered a rebellion, and got a crash course in African politics and culture.	2003-07-26
US	50724118	R2MIC2RPOCBQ2G	0762414197	860886597	Robinson Crusoe	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Didn't want it to end	This is a wonderful book on many levels. Despite his father forbidding it and providing sound advice about taking the moderate road, Robinson yearns to become a seaman.  From the moment he directly disobeys his father and goes to sea, the Hand of Providence becomes central to the plot.  From shipwrecks to slavery the point seems to keep being driven home to him that he is not following the correct path. When he begins living in the manner that he is 'supposed' to live, he excels and would do well.  Each time he steps out of line, however, he is slapped with disaster until Providence is his sole companion and he has a wealth of time to consider his choices.  It is an intriguing look at the grip religion had on the people of DeFoe's time as well as one hell of a great adventure story. I wished that it would keep on going.	2003-07-10
US	50724118	RX2ZISI6BGE79	0679642579	27779639	The Hunchback of Notre-Dame (Modern Library Classics)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Best Damsel in Distress Story Ever	I don't know if the Hunchback was written to illustrate some social wrong - if it was, I didn't catch it.  What it is is a well formed, complete and beautifully told tragedy.  Archdeacon Claude Frollo starts out as an intelligent and committed scholar who longs for familial love after the death of his parents.  He cares for his younger brother and the deformed foundling Quasimodo.  Meanwhile, his younger brother holds him in contempt for his weakness of loving him and the townspeople view Quasimodo as some sort of demon in league with the archdeacon.  Enter Esmeralda, an enchanting gypsy girl who sings and dances in the square before the cathedral. She captivates his heart and head but somewhere along the line, we find that he does not truly have the capacity to love.  He wants only to possess. As he tries alternately to suppress his desires by destroying Esmeralda or possess her by force, the ill-formed and ill-fated Quasimodo does his best to protect her.  He is the only character who possesses true love.  Even Esmeralda's &quot;husband&quot; is more interested in her goat!<br />This is well worth the read. You will laugh and cry, love and hate.	2003-07-10
US	50724118	R34R1QJKGY1YQW	0553213288	219890586	Moll Flanders	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Wondrous Insight	First off, it is surprising to me to read a male author so comfortable in the female perspective.  But DeFoe definitely is comfortable and superb as he presents the 'memoirs' of Moll Flanders from the time that she is given up by her mother in Newgate through a turbulent and action packed life. He presents her flawed choices as reasonable under the circumstances in each case.  And what choices they are!<br />The best punch is about three quarters of the way through the book when she is starting to get on in years and is trying to better her position through marriage.  He, through her, chastises women who put too little value on themselves.  He/She spells out certain rules to gain control in relationships with men and how to best watch for your own interests.  It struck me that this would be useful information for a young girl to read today (or any unmarried woman for that matter).<br />If you are concerned about giving a book to a young girl that contains premarital sex, theft and a score of other things you wouldn't want her to do - don't be.  DeFoe presents the memoirs as a warning, a parable if you will, and Ms. Flanders is always repentent.  This is standard DeFoe style - and a wonderful story.	2003-07-10
US	50724118	R29F6L7IZ432MT	0316116025	67267930	The Pinball Effect: How Renaissance Water Gardens Made the Carburetor Possible-And Other Journeys Through Knowledge	Books	3	0	1	N	Y	Very inventive style but TMI	This is an ingenious ways of writing a book but it borders more on a way of storing information.  It is not the type of book that you read from cover to cover although you could that if you wanted to.  It is essentially cross-referenced with itself. What is does is talk about a particular advancement or invention, providing page numbers in the margins for other advancements or inventions that that one enabled. You can bounce all through the book this way - hence the name of the book. It is very interesting but there is a certain amount of information overload. I kept wondering 'How does he know all of this stuff?'.	2003-07-05
US	50724118	R2IFQ2ANHWCORB	0970978812	959536931	Visual Guide to Lock Picking (2nd Edition)	Books	5	12	15	N	Y	Excellent!	The pictures are fantastic and the explanations are superb.  It covers picking warded locks and making impressions for them, raking, picking and bypassing pin tumbler locks, impact and vibration picking (pin tumblers) and more (I didn't need the wafer lock bit so I didn't read that).  It explains how the locks work internally and provides clear cut away drawings to illustrate.  It explains the different kinds of tools you may need and how to use them, plus pros and cons of each.  This is an excellent resource for picking locks. There is a section on how master keys work.  Although I now understand the concept, I don't think I could just go out and make a master key - but I am pretty confident that I could pick it.	2003-07-05
US	50724118	R2KM23FJEIBGBB	055321229X	586419329	Silas Marner (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	English Candide	On the surface, Silas Marner is a fairly simplistic fable about a jaded weaver who finds solace only in weaving and in counting his gold each night until a little girl appears on his doorstep and he finds meaning and life in her love loosing his obsessions and becoming a well adjusted and well liked person.  I can see how some do not find it interesting.  It was several weeks after I read it that I realized that maybe Silas Marner was not the main point.  He doesn't actually do anything, after all.  Everything happens TO him.  He simply responds to what happens to him. To rediscover life through the love of a child is a good theme but look at Les Miserables.  There is no comparison.<br />Look instead at Godfrey Cass and consider the story with him as the main character.  If Silas Marner is actually the counterpart for him instead of the other way around (like a constant in a science experiment), it starts to take on the qualities of a classic.  Godfrey Cass is also jaded and harassed but he schemes.  He tries to manipulate the circumstances to his best benefit - not in a malicious way, no more than Voltaire's Candide.  If we look at it that way, what we have here is an English Candide for, with Silas as the counterpart instead of Godfrey, the moral changes to become, basically, 'Roll with the punches', or - as Voltaire put it, 'We must cultivate our gardens'.	2003-06-16
US	50724118	R1UMO6CTOSJHLV	068482499X	917889657	A Moveable Feast	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Wonderful description of Fitzgeralds	Honestly, I am recommending this book solely on the last three or four chapters where he talks about the Fitzgeralds.  In those pages, Scott Fitzgerald comes to life and is held immortal in its print. The rest of the book is interesting and held my attention even though I don't know who everyone is that he talks about.  I recognize their names though - Gertrude Stein, Ezra Pound - and believe those parts would have been a lot more enjoyable if I had already read their work.  One thing at a time ... I'll get to them eventually. It would also help to be familiar with the layout of Paris for he describes his the routes of his walks in detail.<br />It strikes me, though I am not a writer, that this book should be read by anyone who aims to write.  He describes the &quot;writing process&quot; and talks about what worked for him and what didn't.  More importantly, he talked about being hungry as a new writer ... words of encouragement no doubt when those to follow his footsteps and wonder if hunger is the precursor to failure.	2003-06-16
US	50724118	R3JA7RUJSQKCCP	0375757899	850805515	A Journal of the Plague Year (Modern Library Classics)	Books	5	2	4	N	Y	Applicable Today  - very well told and very informative	This story of the the effects of the Plague in London in 1665 should be required reading for all people of all civilized countries.  Although it is fiction, he relied so heavily on documented history that his story stands up very well against modern day documentaries.  It is also a gripping and easy to read book.  How the Plague started, how its spread was covered up initially and why, how the government was forced to respond, what happened to the economy and the outlying regions - these things could happen any day in any year in any country.<br />SARS broke out just after I finished the book and I was hooked watching it spread.  Everything he said started happening from the house quarantines to its effect on the Chinese economy.  Having DeFoe's book on my mind when all this was happening - and while we still didn't know what was causing SARS - had me glued to the CDC web site (it had come through the US and hit Canada and I live near a big international airport). This is a very real warning and will not lose its timeliness as long as people build cities and economies.  He is not just describing what happened but giving us warning and ideas for how it can be handled better.	2003-06-16
US	50724118	R17Q142H2V6LAS	0553212478	655343360	Frankenstein	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Nothing like the movie monster	First off, let me get this out of the way - this is not what I expected.  When one refers to Frankenstein, the image conjured up is always the square headed, green skinned Karloff with bolts through his neck (at least, for us non eggheads :P). I am so glad that I read this book just to see who and what Frankenstein's monster really was before Hollywood got ahold of him.<br />There is a mysterious feeling surrounding this book when you know how it came to be.  Read the Author's Introduction if you read nothing else.  Their talks on the subjects of the day ring in the background of Frankestein and, since we are after all dealing with Byron and Shelly in the background, one can almost feel the mood that must have been present that summer.<br />As for the content of the book, the main question I find interesting is that reviewer/critic Harold Bloom said that the greatest paradox was that Frankenstein's monster had more 'humanity' than his human creator.  It is a good angle from which to read the book.  Frankenstein (the creator) works feverishly to learn the secret of resurrection and once he succeeds, abandons his progeny to a cruel world that can not see his inner beauty for his gruesome appearance. The spurned creature turns to his creator and threatens him into helping him by creating a mate so that he can have some solace in the world. With this he would be peaceful.  Are his acts the acts of a monster or of a man pushed too far?  Honestly, the book itself brings up the questions but I didn't see that they were answered.  Of course, I might be missing it.  Regardless, it is fun to read and you owe it to yourself to find out what Hollywood jipped you out of.	2003-06-16
US	50724118	R32XIN5C7V8INR	0449300579	996904481	Les Miserables	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Hugo's Action + Dickens like Depth = Best Story Ever Written	This abridged version by Fawcett is an excellent choice.  A lot of reviewers get hung up on this being abridged or say that it must be read in its original French. I have not read the unabridged version and I couldn't read it in the original French if I wanted to.  The preface to this book points out that the material cropped are mostly long treatments on the sewer systems and French politics not innately necessary for the story.  You don't need all of that to enjoy the story.  Books rarely make me cry but this one did.<br />The story starts with Jean Valjean's release from a 19 year imprisonment which started for stealing bread and got tacked on through several escape attempts.  Upon release, he finds that the requirement of showing his papers at each city gets him driven out of town and denied lodging.  When a kindly Bishop takes him in and overlooks his transgressions, Jean begins to see things differently.  He sets himself up under a new indentity and becomes a successful businessman and a loved community figure. But Javert, an insatiable policeman, is always on his trail.  When he is forced to reveal his identity to prevent a miscarriage of justice, he is thrown on the run again.  This time, though, he is accompanied by Cossette, the daughter of a woman he had promised to bring her to but to whom he was not able to deliver her.  Despite their meager existence, Jean and Cossette come to love each other deeply as father and daughter. As Jean continues to dodge Javert and protect the now beautiful Cossette from the amorous advances of Marius, the conflicts grow to a crescendo until each character - each having followed their own heart to the greatest degree of honor - comes to see themselves and those around them with new eyes.<br />The portrayal of the relationship of Jean and Cossette makes this one of the best novels of all times and all national origins.  There is not a dull moment throughout.  This is like taking the natural movement of a Hugo novel and adding the deep understanding of human motivation and character development from a Dickens novel and fusing them into a masterpiece that transcends time and nationality, speaking a language we all understand.g the deep understanding of human motivation and character development from a Dickens novel and fusing them into a masterpiece that transcends time and nationality, speaking a language we all understand.	2003-06-16
US	50724118	R3T1QZ6VPVMKEY	0140187537	999720718	The Winter of Our Discontent (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Good Dissection of Morality	Steinbeck comes forth with his usual superb character development as expected.  What was unexpected was how relevant his question remains today.  Is everyone dishonest in business?  Is that what it takes?  What happens to an honest man when he tries to get ahead?<br />The story is set in the typical small American town.  If you have ever watched small town politics, you know the cast.  Except for Ethan.  He is unique because he is honest.  He is also \\"a failure\\" because he is honest. He has a wonderful wife - never openly begrudging and always accomodating.  But then he has two kids, both of whom want to know why he isn't rich or when he will be.  They are the future, as children naturally are and the question plays out between them too. Then there is Margie.  Like a carbon copy of the perfect wife, she is the perfect \\"confidant\\" if you get my drift.  As a woman, the contrast between them begs study. But it also pushes the fidelity angle too as Steinbeck goes into her relationships with various men.  Like Young Goodman Brown (Hawthorne, I think) who goes to meet the Devil fearing what various people would think only to find out that they are all already there, Hawley questions of morality go there too.<br />But the true grit of this, for me, is the honesty factor.  When being asked by his family when he will be rich, one of his responses is that there are two kinds of money - no money and not enough.  It will never be enough.  At what point do you stop \\"bending the rules\\".  Do you \\"bend the rules\\" to get a house and security and then behave as an honest and decent man?  Or do you then have the \\"not enough\\" kind of money and have to keep going.  Is to be rich necessarily to be dishonest?  And in the return to honesty and decency, will the money be lost?<br />This is an excellent book - and always will be.  As long as we keep doing things we wouldn't \\"normally\\" do to make money, i.e. trade off our family and values to do this or do that.  Are we being who we want to be?  Are we  striving to be the best spouse, neighbor, parent or does business come first? And, if so, why?  Is that really success?to be?  Are we  striving to be the best spouse, neighbor, parent or does business come first? And, if so, why?  Is that really success?	2003-06-16
US	50724118	R1ZR31QK2NI4I1	0451527623	439617492	The Scarlet Pimpernel (Signet Classics)	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Pure Fun	This book is just plain fun to read.  No profound insight into humanity or burning indictment against someone or something - this is just great, fast paced fun.  It reminded me of the Sherlock Holmes adventures or a modern suspense movie.<br />The Scarlet Pimpernel is an Englishman who leads a group saving the lives of French Aristocrats who are being systematically hunted down and killed in a French revolution.  His identity is secret and he is really putting egg on the face of the revolutionaries so they attempt to find him through the aid of the expatriot Marguerite St. Just, now Lady Blakeney and the head of society in England.  The plot comes into full throttle when she puts them on the trail of the Pimpernel only to discover afterwards the identity of the Pimpernel herself.  The race is on.  Will they find and kill the Pimpernel before she can find and save him?	2003-06-16
US	50724118	R31FXN1A7MOJRK	0078825121	450488968	Access 2000: The Complete Reference	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Very Useful	If you need to do more with Access that build a table and use a wizard to build a form or report, you need this on your shelf. I have finally broken down and had to try to build administrative databases on my own for work and I simply don't know enough to do that. This book is great for me though because I can go as far as I can figure out on my own in Access, get stumped, and turn to this book for the answer. What I am finding really useful is the instruction on how to build an app using Access.  Making the Switchboard, what is the difference between a macro and an event procedure, how do you do macros, etc. - that is all covered really well.  This book is an immense help to me. It's only weakness  - for me, because I already know VB - is that the use of VBA in Access is only one chapter and has a lot of basic stuff about VB like using conditional logic and loops.  I really need to know more about how it is integrated.  I would like to see a lot more VBA code examples in the sidebars.  Still, I have already got a working application with the help of this book in just a few days. Can't argue with that!	2002-07-12
US	50724118	R1CM61GPOD1YA6	0306809427	807047978	Lone Star: A History Of Texas And The Texans	Books	5	20	23	N	Y	Absolute Must Have	This is an exhaustive - and lengthy - book on not just Texas but the the history of the area before there was a Texas, the countries who owned it, the men who settled it and the people who made it what it is today. The author gives a throrough treatment on every topic and that is more amazing than it sounds.  If you are studying Texas, or the Frontier, or the Civil War, or slavery, or sociology of American (not just Texan) development - you should read this book. It is fact filled AND interesting.	2002-07-03
US	50724118	R1Q48AUAG7NXIE	0967078628	884554624	No Second Chance	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Another winner!	Harris does it again when the characters from The Captain's Fund and Smoldering meet up with a new character, Meagan.  The twenty something mentally challenged Meagan brings a cohesiveness to the story by her independent contacts with the different characters.  She also brings a special eliminate to the story with her struggle in sheltered independence and the relationship between her and her mother - especially when haunting warnings keep drifting in from her late grandmother.<br />No Second Chance is a great continuation of the team from The Captain's Fund and Smoldering. And what a cliffhanger! I am definitely waiting anxiously for the next one.	2002-07-03
US	50724118	R1GQ5UR8VQZFBW	030680865X	211106251	The Devil Knows How To Ride: The True Story Of William Clarke Quantril And His Confederate Raiders	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	Absolutely amazing	This is a really outstanding book on the subjects not only of Quantrill but of the Civil War, the Abolition movement, the James brothers, Bloody Bill Anderson, North Central Texas, and life in mid nineteenth century America in general. You can't go wrong with this one.<br />From start to end of epilogue is 440 pages of intense information and you will not tire of any page of it.  The book is very fair and portrays how a man I thought was a base criminal when I started was just one of many, many men in a brutal surrounding.  The author does not gloss over the horrific burning of Lawrence or the Baxter Springs Massacre but he also gives significant time to the Union Orders that affected Quantrell's policies and the actions undertaken by Lane and Jennison that spawned much of the Missourian animousity.<br />From his history, real and mythic, to his life and the times it was in, to his death and (multiple) dispositions, I can't believe the author could have left anything out. In fact, I will have to go back through to try to condense the information in my head.	2002-05-30
US	50724118	R3LBRPVPJSDSDB	0874041872	58816034	Cynthia Ann Parker: The Life and the Legend (SOUTHWESTERN STUDIES)	Books	4	23	23	N	Y	Straight-forward, focused, no frills or detours	This is a compact history ... but it does just what you want - gives what history is known of Cynthia Ann Parker. This is an excellent resource if you are wanting to know about Cynthia Ann Parker from the settler's perspective - the people she left behind, the family she had come from, and the search for her that continued throughout her 'captivity'.  The author seems to steer clear of any area of conjecture, such as why Cynthia Ann got shuttled between family members after her return or what may have happened to her pension, and sticks only to documentable history.  She also avoided sidetracking into the history of Cynthia Ann's famous son or the other people in her life except for as far as they pertain to Cynthia Ann's life.  Focus is very tight, very informative.	2002-05-30
US	50724118	ROZV40BF7SG1G	0060653469	17476479	Finding Your Religion: When the Faith You Grew Up With Has Lost Its Meaning	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Excellent and interesting	This book puts forth a framework that says that maybe a person's changes in religious belief is not a state of confusion but a lifelong process that all people go through to one extent or another. It is the first time I have viewed the 'evolution' (I hesitate to say maturation) of my beliefs as part of a development process that could be described in predictable stages - like those described in a Human Development psychology course.<br />I can certainly understand how some would be resistant to this concept. It challenges some traditional views of religious belief and religious doubt. For those of us who would be chastised for our questions, doubts or thoughts, however, this book is ratifying. The stages he puts forth make sense. I can see them in me. More importantly, I can see them in other people and, as he had hoped, it changes the way I view the people with whom I disagree. Looking at people as in a developmental process rather than in an \\"are|are not\\" framework somehow removes my defensiveness and makes it easier to accept them and myself at the same time.<br />Several stories of people from different paths and their conversion to other paths or re-integration gives a good range of experiences to digest the developmental framework. His subjects discover (or rediscover as the case may be) Judaism, Catholicism, Protestantism and Islam. This is not a survey book. This book presents the framework and several examples for clarity and then impresses on the reader that we are free to make our own choices. And that we should make them. That may not be where we will end up, but you've got to start somewhere and where you are is probably the best place to start.	2002-04-07
US	50724118	R2OKU9PVIYY32R	0375503447	375005417	Hillary's Choice	Books	2	18	24	N	N	Biased and Damaging	Believe it or not, I am one of the few in the country that is not intimately familiar with all of the scandals of the Clinton presidency. I had hoped that, in reading this book, I would understand a little bit more in depth what had happened to have the nation in an uproar and gain some valuable insights to Hillary Clinton. Unfortunately, the bias is so evident in this book that I know that I do not have a complete picture as to what actually happened.<br />In Ms. Sheehy's eyes, Clinton is a proverbial villian and she just assumes everyone else feels the same way too. While she could still present her case against him and not interfere with the integrity of the story, she takes every opportunity to make jibes and call him names. It is hardly objective to call him a philanderer incessantly - whether he is or not. However, the main problem with this attitude is that she lets this get in the way of reporting the evidence fairly. For instance, she makes reference to the stories of the State Trooper's quite frequently. She is overly eager to use their stories against Bill when it concerns his affairs. However, when the same sources indicate that there was an affair with Vince Foster by Hillary, she refutes their legitimacy. Then she goes on to refer to their allegations against Bill, seeming to forget that they also made allegations against Hillary. Which is it? Were they really discredited? Were parts discredited? If so, what parts and how? If they were discredited, why include a remark from an alarmed Bill Clinton to the effect that the AR governor should not be upset because he controls the state police? This only legitimizes their stories which gets us back to, so what's the deal with Vince Foster? As you can see, this book left me with many more questions than were answered.<br />While I do have a clearer picture of Hillary Clinton, the picture painted of her while in the White House, gives me serious reservation about how she would act if she was actually the President. If this book's assertion that there was really nothing to hide is true, it means that Ms. Clinton can not be trusted to be forthcoming when she believes that the hand is being called - even if she knows she has a winning hand. It would have made more sense to lay out the evidence against her and then give her argument as to specifically why she was withholding evidence. Maybe I could have seen myself doing the same thing if faced with the same situation but this is presented as a woman's grudge against the media for no justifiable reason. Of course, she also nevers really hits the question as to whether records were withheld by Mrs. Clinton. She spends a few paragraphs on the possible reasons an administrative assistant might not come forward with a box if she had been asked to find it and, not finding it, found it under her desk months later. After spending almost a hundred pages on her early life and college years, couldn't we spare a few to address the questions that would undoubtedly be brought up by events during the presidency? It simply doesn' hold water in my opinion. People have to have a reason for doing what they do. Especially people with advisors.sident. If this book's assertion that there was really nothing to hide is true, it means that Ms. Clinton can not be trusted to be forthcoming when she believes that the hand is being called - even if she knows she has a winning hand. It would have made more sense to lay out the evidence against her and then give her argument as to specifically why she was withholding evidence. Maybe I could have seen myself doing the same thing if faced with the same situation but this is presented as a woman's grudge against the media for no justifiable reason. Of course, she also nevers really hits the question as to whether records were withheld by Mrs. Clinton. She spends a few paragraphs on the possible reasons an administrative assistant might not come forward with a box if she had been asked to find it and, not finding it, found it under her desk months later. After spending almost a hundred pages on her early life and college years, couldn't we spare a few to address the questions that would undoubtedly be brought up by events during the presidency? It simply doesn' hold water in my opinion. People have to have a reason for doing what they do. Especially people with advisors.	2001-09-14
US	50724118	R3UWT5RQRJ93M1	0399148019	723229047	The Absence of Nectar	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Like a locomotive	I joked when I started this book that it was the first I had ever read written in a Southern drawl. It meanders, I said. True enough, it starts that way. But, as you progress, so does the intensity of the story. The first chapter is taken out of time, so the character development seems weak. I had trouble putting a face on Alice and Boone - at first. However, the first chapter is not meant for character development. It is foremost a foreshadowing. And it is that style of foreshadowing - a casual innuendo here, and a reference there - that ends up building the real momentum so that what was a &quot;meandering&quot; story is anything but. As Alice talks and shares dialog with her brother, Boone, we get to know them throughout the story instead of in two or three pages up front. While the story's strongest point is in the suspense it builds (it reminds me of a Hitchcock film in a way), there is a certain degree of a teenager's disillusionment also. The interplay between the three kids is interesting in and of itself.<br />It seems that the adults are done in charicature.  The mother seems mentally ill and Simon evil, the good guy is always at the graveside of his mourned wife and the absent father is noticeably absent as he appears in the story here and there.  On the flip side, Boone, Alice and Persely have good sides and bad sides and it is as if, in a large part, they are &quot;between&quot; definitions.  In this story, they are defining onto which side of the coin they will fall and eventually become a charicature themselves.	2001-09-14
US	50724118	R3UL0JQGEGK8NO	0842329129	46316172	Left Behind: A Novel of the Earth's Last Days (Left Behind No. 1)	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Be prepared	You'll either like it or you'll hate it.  No middle ground here (no pun intended).  But be prepared because, if you like it, there are A BUNCH more.  To be honest, neither my husband or I care much about the Rapture. We don't spend any time thinking about it.  Still, we both read this one book and ended up - within a very short period of time- buying all of the available books and reading them. And we try to get our friends to read them.  Not to convert them, but because it is a very enjoyable book .. um, series of books.<br />It is a very easy to read book, written probably on a fifth or sixth grade level (made for a broad market, obviously).  It is primarily action based and the emotional bonds of the characters are thin and unrealistic - at least where I live. Our culture is way beyond describing a relationship as getting to a hand holding stage over the course of several weeks.  So, what?  It's not a romance.  The action usually keeps a good pace and I really enjoyed reading the whole series (that's in print).<br />You either will or you won't. But be prepared if you do ... there's many many more after this one.	2001-07-27
US	50724118	R3HFOB4FO5PN6V	0345422392	656764231	Vittorio, the Vampire (New Tales of the Vampires)	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Good book	Vittorio is an interesting read because it is has some dramatic departures from the Anne Rice style of writing while maintaining her characteristic high level of character development and reader's empathy.<br />Vittorio is not part of the Lestat, Armand, Louis crowd and gets that out of the way immediately. This is a book only about his creation given out almost in answer to a dare - a stark contrast to the overburdened soul confessing to a fatherly figure.  Much of the rest of the plot follows the formula lines, really good guy gets converted against his will, etc.  But the layout puts that late in the book so it is alright that that is a given.  This is almost more of a book of historical fiction than a vampire novel though there are certainly vampires - and angels - in it.  In fact, there is something akin to a bibliography in the back for where to get more info on people and places talked about.  The time frame covers his life and lifestyle leading up to the time of his making.<br />I love the angels.  It is a ripe field for her although it is not as loosely philosophical as Memnoch, it is thought provoking in a way.  It is also refreshing to find a vampire that seems to enjoy being a vampire (in a more outright fashion than the others) and makes no excuses.<br />One other remarkable change - no skipping pages.  Every detail and side rant was not long enough to interfere with the story and enhanced and embellished the way I think that she intended.  Maybe a better editor this time round?<br />Overall, well worth buying and reading.	2001-07-27
US	50724118	R2MR1V1WY1XG13	096707861X	842943040	Smoldering	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Outstanding!	If you read The Captain's Fund, you're familiar with Ms. Harris' style.  In Smoldering, she begins to drift closer to what I have always called a 'police procedural' except that this is dealing with fire.  Whatever it should be called, it has the same effect on me as McBain's 87th Precinct series - once in, I can't put it down or go to bed.  (I was up to till 1:30 finishing Smoldering because it is very fast paced, doesn't waste time getting to the punch and keeps you on your toes guessing).  The most important thing in this genre (I think) is credible misdirection which Smoldering does well.  All the suspects have compelling motives and you honestly can't be sure who it is.<br />The romance portion (I'm not big on reading romance) is consistent with what you would see in the movies and doesn't get bogged down in what someone is feeling or any typical mushy stuff.  I really appreciate her treatment of intimacy. I think Scott's relationship will open up new story line possibilities without sidetracking into the lurid and sappy (sorry to be cryptic but I don't want to spoil it for you).<br />Overall, fantastic and I will be waiting for the next one!	2001-05-14
US	50724118	R19PD62RVS5YIG	1565927044	648233860	Outlook 2000 in a Nutshell: A User's Quick Reference (In a Nutshell (O'Reilly))	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Good Desk Reference	Problem with Outlook is that there are a lot of books out there that tell you that they will teach you how to use Outlook but when you buy them they are essentially This is how you send an e-mail, this is how to make a journal entry.' My company even paid for a local college to train us on Outlook which turned out to be a dismal failure.  In other words, it is not easy to learn the power of Outlook.<br />That being said, I searched through bunches of books for something that would teach me how to use Outlook.  The fact is, Outlook is a multi-faceted, reasonably complex piece of software and there is no book out there that is going to teach you everything you need to know about it.  This is as good as you are going to get for the moment (if someone knows a better one, please e-mail me). They basically unleashed a team of people on Outlook and tore it apart and reported the result.  What I like most about this book is that it is not reserved in saying 'Outlook won't let you do that'.  It also warns you of potential ways of blowing up the system - some that would not be obvious.  I don't know how good it will be for upper level stuff like tieing Outlook to databases or giving other Lotus like abilities, but I am still working on archiving so it will be awhile anyway.	2001-05-14
US	50724118	R1Q1O2PQZ79MDR	0672313103	657942858	Sams Teach Yourself Visual Basic 6 in 21 Days	Books	2	5	7	N	N	Find the VB 5 version first	I am a visual basic programmer by profession. I bought a copy of TYVB5 when I first started and it served me well by getting my feet wet with VB so that I could absorb what I was being trained at my employment.  Recently, I bought the TYVB6 book to train a new employee, but within a week was searching the used book stores for the VB5 version.  He says there is a night and day difference.<br />It looks like the VB 6 book has moved around its content and given a little more focus to explaining the nuts and bolts about how VB works, but it did so by replacing the easy to follow examples that the TYVB5 book had. New users, need to write those small programs in the very beginning to digest some of the concepts and build a comfort level with the interface.  For instance, I don't recall the VB5 book getting too much into arrays while the VB6 does - this is not an easy to digest concept for a new developer.<br />If you are just starting out, you need the background that the VB5 book will give you through the examples.  Then move to the VB 6 book.  The differences between versions is not truly significant and whatever you learn on 5 will translate to 6.	2001-05-14
US	50724118	R2WMB3CU0ADI3G	0060987103	816790174	Wicked: The Life and Times of the Wicked Witch of the West	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Good Saturday Book	I went into Wicked thinking that it was 'The Wizard of Oz' told from the point of view of the Wicked Witch of the West.  In truth, that is only a small part of it. It is a biography of the Wicked Witch of the West in which the whole Dorothy incident was only a small part. From the time that she was born, her mother and father, college life and her involvement in the rights of Animals (sentient animals), and love. Her actions all seem reasonable given the whole background and, by the end, it is you who is wanting to say, &quot;Wait, you don't understand&quot; to Dorothy and to somehow set aside what you know is coming.<br />It struck me to have a lot of Tolkienesque qualities in that all of Oz is mapped out and each of its' major land areas are given a distinctive quality of their own so that political 'intrigues' can play out believably.<br />I am sure that there is a lot of room for interpretation, but this is a really enjoyable book without having to do a lot of brain work.  This is my first McQuire book - definitely not my last.	2000-09-29
US	50724118	R3Q5AR5MENSDZ4	088266994X	912780702	The Candlemaker's Companion: A Comprehensive Guide to Rolling, Pouring, Dipping, and Decorating Your Own Candles	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Great How-to Book	What really sets this book apart from other craft and how to books is the author's notes from personal experience about different things that she has tried. For example, she details how wicks are supposed to work and what  happened when she tried to make her own.  She has a wonderfully succinct  style and includes just enough historical background to keep it moving,  interesting and usable as a resource when you are actually at the table.	2000-07-13
US	50724118	R2SAJZ6VFUB70Q	0345425308	772509401	Violin	Books	1	28	38	N	N	Painful and Torturous	I have tried and tried to read this book.  The first time, I made it only to page 14.  Feeling that maybe it picked up after that, I gave it another chance and, after two weeks and sixty seven pages, I am crying uncle.  I  think that a book should pull you in - it should be read out of  entertainment, not perserverence.<br />Rice is usually the very best when it  comes to character development but her efforts here to pull you into the  main character's madness results in pages and pages of ramblings from the  character's mind about classical musicians and disjointed recollections of  unintroduced and/or undeveloped characters.  While she convinces you of the  near madness of the character, she fails to begin to develop the plot.  Each little thing that happens in the story - and there have been  frustratingly few of those so far - sends the character into long  departures from the story line. While other writers, like Gilman (The  Yellow Wallpaper) have successfully used stream of consciousness writing to  portray madness, Rice's tendency towards the inadvertant ramble makes this  a inadvisable attempt on her part.<br />Plus, new characters keep being  introduced so that it is difficult to keep the 'cast' straight in your head  for the main character's coherent moments when it would be nice to  remember, for example, which chaffeur had always been around and which was  the new one.  Vague references to her life before meeting her present late  husband leave the reader reeling trying to figure out where the character  has been, what happened, and which of the people she talks about are  actually involved with the current story line.  On average, I would say  that there is about one paragraph of explanations to every two to three  pages of ramblings.<br />Having faith in Rice, who is one of my favorite  fictional authors, I wouldn't be surprised if the story eventually took  hold and blossomed.  But it will only be the determined reader and avid  Rice fan that will make the effort to find out.will make the effort to find out.	2000-06-25
US	50724118	R20HCG29ZGDNPQ	0140153349	371114702	Woodswoman: Living  Alone in the  Adirondack Wilderness	Books	4	161	163	N	N	This is a very different kind of book, kind of person	This is not the type of book I tend to read - my husband picked it out for me.  Knowing nothing of her, I kept waiting for her to reveal herself to be some type of political or sociological extremist.  Instead, she simply told  stories ... no platforms - just vignettes from her life in the Andirondack.  She tells how she came to build a log cabin in that remote terrain,  including the mistakes she made when she built it.  She tells of the  struggles to keep a pet, about some of her hiking adventures and the  personalities that came through her life.  When she talks of environmental  concerns, she is a realist and does not presuppose that everyone would want  life on the terms that she does while pointing out that so many of us have  no idea what life would be like without a TV or radio wailing.  Plus, she  never really &quot;launches&quot; into environmental concerns - they just  come up during some of the stories as salient points. Such as how  snowmobiles and motorboats had affected her life - for good and bad - and  describing the conditions of hiking public trails, etc.<br />I am very  impressed with Ms. LaBastille.  She is a much stronger woman than I.  I  could never live this way but it does makes me want to visit.  Instead of  feeling energized or particularly educated in some way, I would have to say  this book leaves the reader contemplative.  I have a feeling its effect on  me will last much past the time I have forgotten the story line in other  books I have read.	2000-06-09
US	50724118	R2FAIIRAL0SO60	0345389417	533056481	Servant of the Bones	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Somehow Even Better than the Vampire Chronicles	I couldn't put it down!  It was completely enthralling and kept me up until the wee small hours reading without even noticing the passage of time. I'd have to put this on a par with Queen of the Damned in that there  is a lot of action ... no good places to pause for sleeping or eating ...  but it has got the character development that the earlier Vampire  Chronicles had without pages and pages of descriptive text to be skipped.  In fact, I only recall two places where she lapsed into diatribe or  description that added nothing to the story and I ended skipping over a few  paragraphs.  But that is characteristic of Rice and to be expected.<br /><br />In  Servant of the Bones, you have another immortal being made against his will  but, this time, you don't know what he is so you can't have any  preconceptions about his character or his fate.  Once again, the immortal -  maturing from impetuousity rather than reveling in it - seeks out a  Talbotian figure to write his memoirs and we have the familiar male to male  relationship of other Rice books but without the co-dependency. Again, we  have the religious conflict between the ordinary man who is forced into a  position that, by definition, would deny him of God's grace ... but instead  of interpreting from some vague reference to religion, we have the strict  and complicated background of Orthodox Judaism.<br /><br />Basically, if you are a  Vampire Chronicle fan, you will love this.  It is has all of the same  elements. It is the same picture through a different filter. She didn't  re-write the Chronicles.  She perfected them.	2000-05-25
US	50724118	RDRZN1ZPGR1HB	0201354632	513731586	JavaScript for the World Wide Web, Third Edition (Visual QuickStart Guide)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	This is THE book to learn how to USE Java Script	I agree with the other reviewer who described it as a phrase book. If you are wanting to learn about Java and JavaScripting, this is not the book for you.  If you are building webpages and developing &quot;on the fly&quot; -  this is exactly what you need.  You come to this book with a specific task  in mind and it will tell you how to do that task right now. Most of the  features I have seen on &quot;cool&quot; sites like loading multiple frames  at once, building slide shows, combining a rollover with an image map and  the use of cookies are all here.  Plus there are many topics more advanced  than any web design I have done (like working with DHTML and forms).<br />This book lets you produce like a true geek without necessarily being  one.	2000-05-16
US	50724118	R3MPG9XAQRK2DX	007211939X	258701614	FrontPage 2000: The Complete Reference	Books	5	31	31	N	N	Absolute Must Have	Although FrontPage comes with a very good tutorial, the tutorial alone will not be enough to teach you much past using shared borders and themes and how to add links.<br />This book is definitely the next step - perfect for someone who wants to build more than just the generic homepage with a  few graphics and links.  This book touches on effective design, spends  considerable time on how to use Microsoft Image Composer to make your own  graphics and breezes through using Microsoft PhotoDraw to make buttons and  bars.  It covers how to design with and use tables and frames and how to  tie a database to your web site. And this is just the beginning.<br />From  what I can tell so far, it also gives me enough information to help me make  intelligent decisions about what I need out of a web server and other  higher level functions.  It even covers multiple ways to perform the same  functions like adding advertising and contrasts the pros and cons.  In the  example of adding advertising, it shows you how to use the ASP Ad Rotator  Component and then how to use the built in FrontPage Banner Ad Manager to  do the same thing.  It even goes into Java a little and tells you where you  can download toolkits to build your own applets. It even tells you how to  create your own RealAudio Files and discusses building e-commerce  sites.<br />This is possibly one of the best resource books I have ever  purchased and highly recommend this to anyone who needs to find answers  quickly.	2000-05-10
US	50724118	R18ICWGLD36XHB	0517093804	903027955	Albert Einstein: Out of My Later Years	Books	4	135	138	N	N	Perfect for Travel, Quick Reads	Out of my Later Years is a collection of Einstein's speeches and articles covering not just physics but his thoughts on the social condition of man, of Jews, and of war as well as several speeches about the likes of Max  Planck, Mahatma Gandhi, and Marie Curie.<br />As letters and speeches, these  are written as the ordinary man that Einstein once was - very easy to read  and understand.  Even some of the physics lectures are understandable. Each  is relatively short making this perfect for when you want to read something  of substance but don't have much time.<br />The sections on Public Affairs  are especially haunting as Einstein presents his arguments for the  &quot;global village&quot; and advocated someting akin to the current U.N.  - things that began to come into their own after his passing.  In  particular, there is an interchange between him and  a group of Communist  scientists that underlines the Cold War tension in its height and is a  chilling read now in the Post Soviet Union age.	2000-03-23
US	50724118	RZAGRZ1B6A2OZ	0023721758	206355521	Sacred Paths, The: Understanding the Religions of the World	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Excellent Resource	I bought this book in 1991 (it has been re-published since then, apparently) as the textbook for a world religions course.  It is still on my shelves while others have come and gone.  By constraining itself to  only the major religions, it gives each religion a full treatment  explaining the significance of the principal characters in the context of  history and its indigenous culture as well as the dogma itself.  This is an  excellent book if you are looking for a &quot;survey&quot; of the most  widely practiced religious beliefs.	2000-03-01
US	50724118	R28LMRGQK9E9QL	0517101572	303086050	Celtic Myths and Legends (Myths of the World)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Put Next to Bulfinch's	Chapters 1 - 4 can be entirely skipped as they are a little slow and dry.  Squire discusses the contrasts of the indigenous peoples, the Iberians, and the &quot;new comers&quot;, the Milesians, before you have a clue who the  Milesians are.  If you decide to read the first four chapters, wait until  after Chapter 15.<br />But don't let that deter you from the book.  Chapters  5 through 15 are well worth the purchase in and of themselves.  The stories  are well told and Squire fairly presents the discussion as to the nature of  the existing historical ruins that so enamored William Blake.<br />I would  like to have seen the mythology from Britain separated out into its own  full treatment as the mythology of Ireland is plenty to take all at once.  However, no one says you have to read the whole book in one sitting.	2000-03-01
US	50724118	R21R79NHY8EC1	0393046885	458870497	The Elegant Universe: Superstrings, Hidden Dimensions, and the Quest for the Ultimate Theory	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Surprisingly Understandable	With absolutely no background in physics, I was afraid that I would be lost soon after beginning but I have been pleasantly surprised. Greene gives an easy to understand example for each concept as he introduces it.  He makes the concepts, at least on a broad base, accessible for everyone.  In a pleasant writing style, Green takes the reader through the beginning  theories of Newton and explains Einstein's Special and General Theories of  Relativity - illuminating the rift between the micro and macro trains of  thought.  Once the reader is brought up to speed about the current question  in physics, Greene explains patiently and carefully the concepts being  dealt with and proposed by the Unified String Theory.  If the last time you  read anything about science was sixth grade, this is an excellent book to  help you attempt to &quot;be informed&quot;.	2000-01-30
US	50724118	R10CI4YA1FCXZ1	1567312268	167392856	Salem Possessed: The Social Origins of Witchcraft	Books	5	36	39	N	N	An Example of Fine Research	Finally, someone to take the hocus pocus out of this period of history and actually try to make some sense out of a sociological phenomenon gone wildly awry.  While others relied on the tabloid type accounts of events  left behind in court depositions, Nissenbaum and Boyer get into the nitty  gritty to show you what really happened.  Accessing Parris's sermons,  wills, seemingly unrelated civil conflict court records, tax records,  censuses, and more, this book starts from the beginning - the founding of  Salem Village and takes you step by step through the most likely scenario  of what really happened in this conflict in terms of personal power  struggles, family legacies, societal conflicts between agrarian and  commercial lifestyles and so on. This book also changed my perspective on  the Puritan way of life and stirred my interest in the Great Awakening of  1751 which had similar outbreaks as the &quot;spectral evidence&quot; of  Salem but was interpreted in a wholly different way.	2000-01-28
US	50724118	R2X8L2YHLOIOU8	0761513884	601754256	Create Your First Web Page In a Weekend	Books	5	43	43	N	N	Perfect for the Beginner	If you have never looked at HTML before, this is a great book to get you started.  Expect no reliance on commercial web editors, this book tells you how to create your web pages in Windows Notepad or a similar text editor.  The tools he gives you in this first book match and exceed what a novice  would get using a template from a commercial web editor.  If there is  anything negative about this book, it is that it makes transition to a web  editor harder.  With the essentials this book offers, it is easier to pop  into Notepad and make the change than to figure out the software.  All in  all, I don't think that is such a bad thing.	2000-01-15
US	50724118	R3Q6F32PE0HBZD	0761511377	35792318	Jazz Up Your Web Site: In a Weekend	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Definitely Useable	This book will get you into most of the bells and whistles that HTML can offer as well as a little Java. I originally thought that this was the same author and was surprised (and disappointed) that the focus had shifted from authoring in Notepad to using FrontPage. Still, he accomodates both users and I was able to learn how to build frames in pure HTML using this book. He also covers tables more in depth than in the first book, in addition to animated gifs, sound, and forms. As I learned more about HTML, I ended up investing in a copy of FrontPage and this book became much more important than the first. The HTML editors like FrontPage are simply too powerful to ignore and this book is more along the right track in showing a mix of manual and editor methods.	2000-01-15
US	50724118	R2XEK5RQ5CMV6D	0967078601	993829799	The Captain's Fund	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Captain's Fund	The Captain's Fund is excellent! I read it for the murder mystery but I have to say that Harris keeps  a sensual tension between the characters that forces the reader to read on. You can't help but develop a personal  interest in the characters and begin to join in with them to try to solve  the case.  The mystery is well thought through with several good twists. I  hope that this is continued as a series.  It will definitely be on my  shelves.	2000-01-06
US	50724118	R3UIUZK3VQ9DKS	0312119038	999720718	Through the Narrow Gate: A Memoir of Spiritual Discovery	Books	5	46	50	N	N	Inspiring and Soul-Searching!	Through a Narrow Gate is a testament to the personal struggle between feeling the faith and wanting to somehow live it, too.  I am impressed with her ability to relive the experience while being fair to both sides and  making their decisions and feelings make sense, even when they are directly  opposing.  The most remarkable thing is her feelings about the modern  convents given her struggle and her respect for what was.  Her respect is  contagious - she gave it to me! She, and her experiences, seem to ratify my  own even as mine pale against her story.  I recommend it to anyone  seriously trying to understand God in their own lives and in their own  terms.	2000-01-06
