US	50729021	R2OMJGKZZ5J2YR	0375758259	389338120	When Genius Failed: The Rise and Fall of Long-Term Capital Management	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Ideology and greed defy common sense	There should be a sinking feeling in the pit of your stomach as you read this book. Long-Term Capital Management was almost guaranteed to fail from its outset and, when the end finally did come, the fund's collapse almost took a big chunk of Wall Street with it. The scary part is that there are more LTCMs out there, operating without regulatory oversight and all subject to wrong-headed economic hypothesizing as the basis for their trading operations.<br />The poison pill at the center of Long-Term Capital Management's very being was the efficient market theory, an almost universal belief among economists and financiers alike that free markets always operate in the most effective, logical manner possible over the long term. They don't, of course, and that refusal to acknowledge fundamental human irrationality led LTCM over the brink.<br />Lowenstein does an outstanding job of untangling the fund's complicated derivatives trades and explaining how the fund eventually over-leveraged itself into a sudden collapse. We normally read business stories like this for the thrill of seeing moral hazard at work, seeing the rich fall from grace and thinking how well-deserved that fate is. I would recommend, however, that you approach this book as a template for how the next Great Depression could spring from the simultaneous self-destruction of derivatives trading firms. And thanks to Roger Lowenstein, you don't have to be a genius to see how it could happen.	2004-06-19
US	50729021	R3117TCZ3R6U0B	0375753788	684412710	I Will Bear Witness: A Diary of the Nazi Years, 1933-1941	Books	5	31	31	N	N	How Germany descended into madness one step at a time	You probably remember the old folk wisdom that a frog plunged into boiling water will hop out immediately, while a frog placed in cold water that is slowly heated will stay put even as it's boiled to death. The latter method was applied to Germany's Jews beginning in 1933, when Hitler became Chancellor and effectively ended the Weimar Republic overnight. Victor Klemperer, the irascible philologist who kept a diary for most of his adult life, is a most discerning frog. This volume of his diaries stretches from Hitler's ascent to power to the outbreak of World War II. During that time, Klemperer and his fellow Jews in Dresden saw their civil liberties slowly stripped away from them, along with their property and money.<br />What makes this such a fascinating read is Klemperer himself. By turns depressed, anxious and furious, this gentle, learned man discovers that his pride in being a true German is misplaced. Although Klemperer has converted to Christianity out of sincere solidarity with what he perceives as his true culture, this does nothing to make him anything but a Jew in the eyes of National Socialism. His shock at this discovery is soon matched by a determination to outlast his tormentors or, at least, avoid a terrible fate at their hands for as long as possible.<br />Why Germany fell prey to such atypical thuggery will remain a bone of contention for historians for centuries to come. But Victor Klemperer's diaries make it clear that, from the start, the Nazis intended to live down to their reputation. It is equally clear that, for Jew and Gentile alike, many Germans found themselves unable to fathom the evil of Hitler's regime until it was much too late.<br />Getting to know Klemperer through his diary is an enjoyable experience. He can be short-tempered and moody, yet also sardonic and brilliantly prescient. He's human and World War II at this late remove doesn't give us too many mere humans thanks to the pain of remembrance, which too often demands heroes.Klemperer's day-to-day existence is a testament to the will to outlast and outwit evil. It is not heroic in scale, but it is honest.	2004-06-19
US	50729021	R1PFBNAK9E2BWO	1585672734	675082326	A Few Bloody Noses: The Realities and Mythologies of the American Revolution	Books	3	8	14	N	N	George Washington schlepped here...	The American Revolution and the constitutional settlement that followed it have come to serve as a sort of Rohrschach Test in which anyone can see whatever vision he or she is disposed to see by way of ideological inclination. American political movements from the very time of these events have often evoked the revolution and Constitution as a rhetorical shorthand for whatever public virtues they happen to be hawking at the moment. But then comes the rare bird who seeks not to misappropriate the revolution and Constitution for his own political aims as much as to discredit it in toto. Until now, that role had been reserved for National Socialists, Communists and Islamist absolutists, who believed their own political legitimacy rose in proportion to \\"debunking\\" the story of the founding of the United States.<br />It might never have occurred to any average American that the outcome of the American Revolution could sting so deeply in the British psyche that it could spur an English heart to spend a considerable amount of time and effort trying to settle out scores nearly two and a half centuries after the fact. Thank goodness we have Robert Harvey to plead the British version of what happened prior to, during and after the American Revolution.<br />Contrary to what the professional reviews say, this is not an even-handed, balanced account of the American Revolution. No, what we have here is nothing less than an Oxbridge version of a drive-by shooting. The merit of this book, however, is two-fold. First, Mr. Harvey has a deft hand when it comes to narrative and that alone would lead me to recommend the book. Second, Mr. Harvey provides us with plenty of first-hand documentary evidence from the actual participants themselves. Those strengths, however, must be balanced against Mr. Harvey's incessant attempts to discredit every aspect of the American side of the revolution. This leads to some fairly strange -- and strained -- conclusions. Mr. Harvey will no doubt be shocked to find out that the Eastern Band of the Cherokee nation prospers in its original homeland in the North Carolina mountains. He may also be surprised to find out that Scots soldiers were not seen as menacing brutes by the colonials since, well, you see, thousands of Scots -- highland, Gaelic-speaking, Jacobite Scots -- had settled in the colonies in the decades before the revolution erupted.<br />This book is a delight to read and Mr. Harvey's contorted efforts to put paid to the colonial record make for some laughs. I eagerly await his book on the Irish potato famine, which will no doubt go to equal lengths to show how enlightened British public policy was toward its Irish Catholic minority and how the bastards threw it back in London's face by dying of starvation in their millions or emigrating to foreign shores in search of enough to eat.	2003-04-25
US	50729021	R2KSKNLH2AA0W9	0471384208	300078036	Great Shipwrecks of the Pacific Coast	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Unto the dread sea	Shipwreck narratives have a long, glorious history in English and American literatures. Cultures that take to the sea understand implicitly its sudden, inscrutable danger and its lure. It is not a far leap at all from Ulysses' travels on the wine-dark seas of the Mediterranean to the mundane coastwise sea transport that linked the thousands of miles of seaboard along the west coast of the United States and Canada in an era before interstate highways and commercial air travel.<br />Robert Belyk has rescued the important marine history of that place and time with this book. Each account of the various marine disasters covered here is well-researched and well-written. His straightforward, journalistic style makes for compelling reading. Of particular note is his account of the loss of the Princess Sophia in late October, 1918, with all hands after the ship grounded itself on the Vanderbilt Ledge in the dangerous Lynn Canal south of Juneau, Alaska. The Princess Sophia lingered, stranded on the rock outcropping, for over a day before an early winter storm floated her off her perch, allowing her to sink in a few moments with 343 people trapped aboard.<br />There is still a great deal of mythic power to stories of men and women struggling to survive the raging sea. The blockbuster status of movies such as &quot;Titanic&quot; and &quot;The Perfect Storm&quot; is proof of that power. You'll also find it in this solemn collection of ship sinkings along the Pacific Coast.	2003-03-21
US	50729021	RAJB61NUNAOV2	0805063560	61699903	M: The Man Who Became Caravaggio	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Penetrating insight obscured by odd verbal tics	Reviewer Frank Martini beat me to the punch, but it's worth repeating -- this is a fine biography undermined by a writing style that becomes progressively harder to ignore as one reads along. Peter Robb has been badly served by his editors in this regard. He never misses an opportunity to use a contraction or to even glue two or more contractions together into a noisome verbal confection that trips the reader up. His preferences for non-standard punctuation, probably most charitably described as &quot;odd,&quot; also stand out like loud, sour, distracting notes in an otherwise masterful composition.<br />Robb's lack of decent editing is especially unfortunate because he has produced a fine biography from a very meager historical record. Michelangelo Merisi left little in the way of documentary evidence to mark his brief four decades of life. Until very recently, Merisi's biography was his work, the canvases he churned out with amazing proliferation, often according to his needs for money and political patronage. Robb does an outstanding job of placing Merisi within the context of the Italy of his era and invoking the various religious and political tensions which roiled the peninsula's art world throughout Merisi's life.<br />Robb is also outstanding at dissecting Merisi's work, telling us how canvases were done, the techniques Merisi used to achieve his goals and the emotional connection his work made with his audiences. I was particularly impressed with Robb's conceit pairing Merisi with 1940s photographer WeeGee, whose gritty real-life, black and white compositions rose or fell on the contradictions between the two opposed qualities of light. In this sense, Merisi followed in God's footsteps by demanding, first of all, that there be light.<br />The book is dogged by a dearth of color plates of Merisi's surviving work. It can be frustrating to read Robb's often eloquent descriptions of a Merisi canvas only to find that one has to put the book down and look for a reproduction of it on the Internet. And, while I applaud Robb's detective work in piecing together the few remaining scraps of contemporary documentation of Merisi's adult life, I can't help but wonder what might remain to be found in the Vatican's archives or in those of the Spanish monarchy. Robb is such a good researcher that one longs to see him slip the leash and come up with more documentation, particularly concerning Merisi's final days.<br />This book is a splendid introduction to Merisi's work even despite the caveats I have mentioned. Be prepared to spend some time and mental energy in reading it, but it will be worth your effort. Michelangelo Merisi was instantly recognized during his own lifetime as one of those rare geniuses who completely transform art, which is never the same afterwards. His recent rediscovery is long overdue and Peter Robb's empathetic reading of the life and work of the man who became Caravaggio should further that rediscovery.	2002-08-13
US	50729021	R2V9M9WKLD9OVX	0802150306	458947896	The Theater and Its Double	Books	3	30	37	N	N	Signaling furiously through the flames	Antonin Artaud's obsession -- and I don't think that's too strong a word in this context -- lay in building a new philosophical framework for live theater, one that would give audiences unmediated access to powerful metaphysical truths. This book is keystone text that illuminates the rest of his life's work. Ultimately, it's not a satisfying one because of its repetitive and mystical nature and because, placed in historical context, Artaud's conception of what should constitute living theater seems somewhat constricted to later, media-saturated generations.<br />Let there be no mistake, however. The theatre francais of Artaud's day was hidebound by convention, a convention that surrealism took as somewhat of a challenge to overturn. Artaud's plea for a theater that would de-emphasize the spoken text and accord more emphasis on light, sound, movement and elaborate combinations of anything non-verbal that could be brought to bear on audiences is part and parcel of the surrealist rejection of theatrical convention. It is striking that Artaud, himself a marvelous film actor, dismissed out of hand the notion that motion pictures as an art form could do what live theater could not. In this respect lies the most obvious example of his limited vision. Film would eventually provide the director with all the tools that Artaud dreamed of for his Theatre of Cruelty. Bergman, Fellini, Kurosawa and Tarkovsky would all draw heavily on the notion of subordinating conventional dialogue to image and sound. Artaud's notion of theater is further undercut by the rise of television, its ubiquity and, in the age of digital electronics and computers, its raw immediacy. Television gives us unmediated images of real violence and conflict, of death on a horrendous scale, but many of us would rightly question whether being directly confronted by the unreasoning cruelty of the world we live in is especially ennobling or enlightening. In fact, many of us might argue the opposite, that it coarsens us, that it hardens the soul against outrage.<br />So, why give Artaud three stars for this book? Because there are some very crucial things that he gets right in this collection of essays. Most importantly, Artaud draws repeated attention to the flaws of complacency in theatrical production. It took an Artaud to remind Western civilization that theater's roots lay in public spectacle and religious rite and that its estrangement from those roots was killing theater as a living form of art. It took an Artaud to take theater off the stage and put it into the public space surrounding the audience, breaking the plane of conformity that separated actors from audience. Artaud, perhaps most ironically, reminds us that we call theatrical performers \\"actors\\" for a very good, but forgotten, reason -- their art at its peak acts upon the audience with a transformative power.<br />This very dense and, at times, mystifying collection is worth the effort required to read through it and come to grips with intellectually. I would especially encourage anyone interested in film as an art form to read Artaud and ponder how his insistence that a wide range of sense data can reconnect an audience with vital truths could be adapted to the cinema. For here, in a new art form that is still willing to tap into daring innovation, is where Antonin Artaud's passion is most likely to find a permanent home.	2002-05-24
US	50729021	R3AQ2GB3A2IZO5	0140180818	385796084	The Good Soldier: A Tale of Passion (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Discreet Harm of the Bourgeoisie	Ford Madox Ford's \\"The Good Soldier\\" isn't really worthy of some of the more recent adulation heaped on it. It is not one of the greatest novels in the English language. Ford's friend and colleague, Joseph Conrad, was turning out far superior novels during this same period of time. Ford's rediscovery and positive reassessment by a new generation speaks more to their own concerns with finding truth at a personal level in a time of turmoil and deceit than it does to any transcendental perfection inherent in the novel. The same people who have re-inflicted Henry James on us over the past 15 years are this book's biggest admirers. So, why do I give \\"The Good Soldier\\" four stars?<br />Because it is a damned fine novel in its narrative dimensions and its psychological analysis of its characters. Told through the tattered memory of John Dowell, the story weaves back and forth across time and personal perspective. Its non-linearity is acknowledged up front by Dowell, who warns us that he intends to tell this saddest of stories to us as if we were sitting right next to him in a room, listening to him speak while the night wind moans and thrashes outside. In fact, Dowell so tangles up his narrative that, at one point, he has to backtrack and put the sequence of events back into chronological order to clear up the confusion he has caused for himself through his knotted recitation of what happened.<br />The non-linearity of the story line should be a major clue to the reader of the main theme of this novel -- how we deceive even ourselves when it comes to our most private passions. Dowell is a Nabokovian delight, an untrustworthy narrator who can only be relied upon for the basic facts and not the emotional nuances that create or shape them. Reluctant at first to admit anything unseemly in he and his wife Florence's twelve-year friendship with Leonora and Edward Ashburnham, Dowell eventually begins to trip himself up and, seemingly unknowingly, reveal things that contradict his earlier depictions of what transpired between the Dowells and the Ashburnhams. Dowell is sticking his hand in a fire and, in the process, coming to terms with his inner turmoil and pain at the turn of events which leave him widowed and nursing an insane young woman he loves, as well as Edward Ashburnham dead by his own hand, Florence Dowell likewise and Leonora Ashburnham, married off to a dull, proper member of the English gentry.<br />Ford's mastery of psychological detail and insight into his characters is astonishing. It also reinforces the untrustworthy nature of Dowell's role as narrator. We wonder how a man can be so keen an observer of human behavior, yet not understand until after his wife has committed suicide that she has cuckolded him throughout their marriage. Nevertheless, Dowell's ability to analyze the motives and behaviors of those around him is uncanny. By the end of the novel, it is obvious that Dowell has lied to us about his understanding of his own feelings and actions. He knows Ashburnham, a man he claims to love and admire without reservation, is about to slit his throat, but makes no effort to stop him.<br />\\"The Good Soldier\\" is a well-told tale of deceit between lovers and between the self and the soul. It is set at a time when an old ethos was rotting from within due to its own contradictions. That same sense of tearing through the hypocrisy of conventional wisdom and expectations of what we should expect in the form of love from others is what makes this novel very relevant for our own troubled era.earlier depictions of what transpired between the Dowells and the Ashburnhams. Dowell is sticking his hand in a fire and, in the process, coming to terms with his inner turmoil and pain at the turn of events which leave him widowed and nursing an insane young woman he loves, as well as Edward Ashburnham dead by his own hand, Florence Dowell likewise and Leonora Ashburnham, married off to a dull, proper member of the English gentry.<br />Ford's mastery of psychological detail and insight into his characters is astonishing. It also reinforces the untrustworthy nature of Dowell's role as narrator. We wonder how a man can be so keen an observer of human behavior, yet not understand until after his wife has committed suicide that she has cuckolded him throughout their marriage. Nevertheless, Dowell's ability to analyze the motives and behaviors of those around him is uncanny. By the end of the novel, it is obvious that Dowell has lied to us about his understanding of his own feelings and actions. He knows Ashburnham, a man he claims to love and admire without reservation, is about to slit his throat, but makes no effort to stop him.<br />\\"The Good Soldier\\" is a well-told tale of deceit between lovers and between the self and the soul. It is set at a time when an old ethos was rotting from within due to its own contradictions. That same sense of tearing through the hypocrisy of conventional wisdom and expectations of what we should expect in the form of love from others is what makes this novel very relevant for our own troubled era.	2002-03-21
US	50729021	R2HTXDHJM59Q32	0679735771	92932803	American Psycho	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Monster's Ball Masterpiece	Meet Patrick Bateman -- Wall Street wunderkind, Harvard-educated, $180,000 per year gross earner, ladies' man, Donald Trump fan, firm fixture of what once would have been called \\"the Smart Set.\\" Patrick has the world by the tail. He is a member of the creme de la creme of American society. His horizon has nothing but blue skies to be seen. Except for the fact that Patrick is a sadistic serial killer who tortures victims to death, then performs acts of necrophilia and cannibalism on their bodies. Perhaps. For, you see, Patrick can't be sure what's real and what isn't any longer. He's not even sure if he himself exists, although he knows that some of the hallucinatory visions he witnesses cannot possibly be real.<br />This book is inevitably bound to be Bret Easton Ellis's major work and, just as inevitably, bound to elicit heated denunciations from people infuriated and appalled by the graphic depictions of extreme violence, sexual intercourse and misogyny peppered throughout. Pat Bateman is a frightening avatar of late Eighties' Yuppiedom, the ethic of red-in-claw-and-tooth Social Darwinism raised by exponential proportions. His deeds are so revolting -- and so lovingly detailed -- that we cannot possibly contain our horror. The problem is that American society is now full of Patrick Batemans. Indeed, we celebrate our Batemans, wishing their ruthlessness for our own. Look no further than the excesses of reality television for confirmation of this psychotic love affair.<br />There are some very intriguing hints about Bateman's true psychological state of being. Easton Ellis, who quotes Dostoevsky in the book's preface, makes heavy use of that writer's doppelganger idea in \\"The Double.\\" People in Patrick Bateman's world are forever being mistaken for someone else. Identities are as fluid as quicksilver. Clothes literally make the man. Patrick obsessively recounts the clothing worn by the people he works with, recreates with and kills. Patrick sees very little beyond those surface qualities and it's clear that he's no different from his peers in this regard. The irony, of course, is that Patrick's psychosis, as it grows, leaves him less and less sure about what lies beneath his own surface trappings of clothes and a well-toned body.<br />Easton Ellis savages the twisted moral underpinnings of yuppie cafe society of the 1980s. Its vapidity is symbolized by Bateman's paeans to the musical artists he thinks define the decade -- Genesis, Whitney Houston, and Huey Lewis & the News -- and by the insanely banal dialogue between characters. The artifice of Bateman's world is on tedious display upon the tables of the many trendy restaurants in which the novel primarily unfolds, all of them serving expensive nouvelle cuisine that no sane person would feed a cat, much less a human being. The ephemeral nature of Bateman's world can be found in the empty store fronts where once hot restaurants have closed, leaving only a void in their wake. The fundamental yuppie inversion of morals -- namely money over humanity -- is on display as Patrick and his pals cruelly offer homeless beggars money, only to snatch it away from them.<br />Babbitry, that most American blindness to moral outrage, will undoubtedly keep this novel from reaching an audience who should have to think through its frightening implications. Potential readers will always have Easton Ellis's alternately lascivious and repulsive scenes of sex and slaughter upon which they can construct principled arguments for not reading such reviling material. But in doing so, they miss a devastating critique and ultimate rejection of the evils undermining our society. \\"American Psycho\\" isn't an easy read; it's a necessary one.	2002-03-13
US	50729021	RGWJ4WSVGN00D	0395937477	399100511	Walking Since Daybreak: A Story of Eastern Europe, World War II, and the Heart of Our Century	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Herald of a New Branch of Historic Inquiry Into World War II	The greatest \\"unreported\\" story of World War II was the massive geographical dislocation of millions of Eastern Europeans in the wake of the Soviet-German conflict. There has been little historiography on the subject available to a general readership in English. Modris Eksteins' account of his family's flight from Latvia to uncertain sanctuary in Canada is a splendid, heart-rending sign that should encourage more popular history accounts of this terrible tragedy.<br />The destruction of the German Sixth Army at Stalingrad in early 1943 and the subsequent loss of men and armor at Kursk later that summer paved the way for the Red Army to retake all of the territory lost to the Germans since June, 1941, and to storm its way through Eastern Europe to overwhelm the Nazi regime at its source in the Fuehrerbunker in Berlin. Millions of ethnic Germans, Balts, Poles and other civilian populations suffered terribly as the front lines drew back into their home territories. The Russians allowed their soldiers free reign to terrorize these civilians. Rape, theft and murder were inevitable companions that trailed in the wake of the Red Army's passage through Eastern Europe. Millions of civilians fled their homes in the dead of winter in 1944-45 to escape the dread Communist whirlwind.<br />Modris Eksteins wasn't old enough in 1945 to remember his family's flight from Latvia, but his talents as a historian and writer have reconstructed those terrible days intact. Eksteins uses the memories of his mother and older sister, as well as his father's diaries and official records in countries involved in the Soviet-German conflict, to piece together the history of one family's flight into diaspora. Even those lucky enough to find their way into Displaced Persons (DPs) camps in western Germany faced long waits for admission to countries that would take them. Eksteins vividly conveys the plight of DPs, an unwanted reminder to Germans of their own complicity in the worst crimes in human history and a barely-tolerated marginal presence in a postwar Canada still so Anglicized that foreigners were automatically scorned and suspect.<br />Gunther Grass has published a novel dealing with the East Prussian diaspora, a work that has opened up a tremendous flood of remembrance and pain in Germany. Until Grass's novel is translated and released in English, Modris Eksteins holds center court on the emotional tragedy that mass dislocation inflicted on its sufferers. It is time the voices of these people were heard.	2002-02-20
US	50729021	R12MTNHNUFT9IY	0393046710	46961500	Hitler: 1889-1936 Hubris	Books	5	4	8	N	N	A clear-eyed appraisal of evil	Kershaw's two-volume biography of Adolf Hitler is, as the New York Times review suggests, likely to serve as the touchpoint for academic discussion of Hitler's character and ideology for a generation. That achievement is due to Kershaw's diligence in walking a fine line emotionally and morally with respect to the treatment he accords the subject of this book. Writing a biography of Hitler that manages to confine one's total loathing for the man and everything he represented is a difficult task. Yet, Kershaw does exactly this, appraising every act of Hitler's, especially once he becomes Reichschancellor, with balance.<br />Adolf Hitler evokes a very visceral response in most Americans and Europeans, usually one of outright hatred and revulsion. It is important, though, to understand how much of the Third Reich was Hitler's creation and how much was created in his name. Hitler as a politician was a rabble-rouser, a fiery campaigner whose sole talents consisted of brilliant public speaking and an almost Svengali-like penchant for interpersonal relationships on a brief surface level. Hitler himself realized from the start how limited his intellect and personality were, and was honest and aboveboard about it during the early days of the National Socialist German Workers Party. Kershaw describes a young man ill at ease with himself and the rest of the world, an estrangement that would manifest itself in fanaticism and hatred as his political career progressed and Hitler himself came to believe in his own mystique.<br />Kershaw's most salient points in this volume are two-fold: Adolph Hitler could never have come to power without the political miscalculations of an entire generation of German politicians; and the contours of Nazi Germany were shaped less by Hitler's personal fiat than they were by his underlings, who used Hitler's obvious disinterest in public policy and administrative detail to carve out power centers for themselves. Of the two, the latter is the more important revelation, because it ties the decentralized nature of power in Nazi Germany into the pre-Weimar political structure of the German state, which also lacked a formal arrangement of areas of responsibility and limits of authority between the various organs of the state.<br />In the end, Kershaw's Hitler is a man who doesn't even bother to create a three-dimensional life for himself off-stage. He is a bully and a blusterer in a culture that respects those qualities at a time when its standing has been badly battered by losing a world war. Other than that, Adolf Hitler remains somewhat elusive, not because his is an enigmatic nature, but because he himself is far less than the sum total of the hopes that Germans placed in him. Hitler's humble opinion of himself in the early Twenties gave way as events led him to the top of the feeding chain. But it never lost its validity as self-judgment. Germany led by Hitler who had jettisoned that humility in favor of megalomania was inevitably doomed to destruction.	2002-02-12
US	50729021	R2P6E8RVV1WQK7	0385332866	175778980	Vulgar Favors: Andrew Cunanan, Gianni Versace and the Largest Failed Manhunt in U.S. History	Books	4	19	21	N	N	A name in lights	I'm somewhat baffled by the number of reviewers who read specific cultural and political agendas into this book. I am not saying that they're wrong, just that I didn't perceive Orth as being particularly anti-gay or pro-gay. I actually thought her depiction of gay communities in San Diego, San Francisco and South Miami Beach was sympathetic. Gays and lesbians in this country still, in most instances, endure lives constricted by homophobia, familial indifference and the potential for victimization by intolerant heterosexuals. Any book that can put a human face on homosexuality for a mass American audience should be welcome as a step toward enlightenment and tolerance.<br />As for Andrew Cunanan, the demons that drove him to serial murder arose from the values imposed on him by his parents at an early age, not his sexual orientation. Cunanan was a quintessential narcissist and a sociopath, always a dangerous combination no matter what social milieu. Cunanan's pathology is a great deal clearer than most heterosexual serial killers with the same personality traits because his extroversion put his materialistic cravings on public display. Had Cunanan been more circumspect in his behavior, he might have killed many more men before being run to ground.<br />What speaks to me most in this book is Orth's depiction of a smart man who sacrificed his own personality in order to fulfill his fantasies of wealth and celebrity. When his aging body and drug habit finally caught up with him, Andrew Cunanan was a man filled with a deadly despair. Weak and inconsequential, he took up a gun to make himself a man of means, counting his riches in infamy. It must have been a cold, unfulfilling dish.<br />Orth's primary targets for criticism aren't the gay residents of the communities named above. Instead, she reserves her barbs for the various police departments and the FBI who bungled the search for Andrew Cunanan. Had a truly coordinated effort been launched to capture him, Cunanan wouldnever have gotten close enough to Gianni Versace (...). Instead, agencies seemed content to expend the least possible effort in finding Cunanan. If nothing else, Orth's book is a damning indictment of how law enforcement doesn't ensure public safety in the gay community with the zeal it normally reserves for the larger heterosexual community.<br />In the end, Cunanan's perverse inversion of values would taint the lives of everyone he knew, save his younger sister Gina, the only Cunanan who refused to sell her story to the tabloid media. Ironically, Cunanan would have been delighted to know that his infamy was earning him column inches in <i>Vanity Fair</i> and top billing on tabloid television. His name in lights -- that simple vision drove Andrew Cunanan to murder five people.	2001-12-17
US	50729021	R1ZGGDFTX21VC2	1585671576	235076236	1918: War and Peace	Books	4	14	15	N	N	A Weighty Piece of History	Gregor Dallas has gifted the world with a splendid introduction for history laymen like myself on the question of what happened after the war ended and why we let it get that way. The short answer is that after November 11, 1918, Europe burned only at one end instead of both. Dallas's genius lies in giving you the overly-long answer and, as a consequence, a very nice bookstop once you have finished reading its contents.<BR><BR><BR>If I sound a bit miffed about the length of the book, please don't take it quite that way. I found certain passages that soared upon the wings of swallows. Others, however, merely shuffled along like an arthritic elephant. Mr. Dallas's tome shuffles a bit too much. It needed tighter editing. I was also distracted by the number of typos I ran across, including one of my all-time favorites the &quot;the the&quot; mental stutter, which is liberally salted throughout the book.<BR><BR><BR>So, what about Dallas's historical analysis of the events surrounding the Armistice and its aftermath? He's on his firmest and most fascinating footing when recounting mayhem, most notably Germany's descent into near anarchy, the swirl of conflicting groups contesting one another for control of Berlin or parts of it and the rise of paramilitary groups that ultimately curbed the unrest in a bloody, extra-legal manner.<BR><BR><BR>Dallas's greatest achievement lies in reminding Western readers that when the guns fell silent in the trenches in France, they continued to roar everywhere in Europe east of the Oder. He takes the time to explain why the Bolsheviks were able to seize and consolidate their control of the new Russian state. There are plenty of books already out that will give you a much more thorough account of the convoluted fighting between Red and White armies between 1919-1921. Dallas, however, is interested in the question of how the vicious civil war in Russia and its outcome affected all of Central Europe in the interwar period. Poland's defeat ofRussia in a brief war in 1920, often overlooked in Western accounts of the aftermath of the Great War, is placed in a much more appropriate context here.<BR><BR><BR>This is a book you read once, put back on the shelf, then return to over the years as you learn more about that particular era of history. Dallas's palpable dislike of Communists along with Americans in general and liberals in particular may put off some more patriotic readers, but it doesn't detract from the book's worth as a reminder of what happens when peace is not waged with the single-mindedness, intensity and ingenuity of modern war.	2001-09-04
US	50729021	R19DNXS0SEWJQE	0141002026	342087812	The Burning of Bridget Cleary: A True Story	Books	2	11	17	N	N	A Bridget Too Far	My guess is that this book was birthed by sheer accident. Angela Bourke, rummaging around for material to examine in her explorations of Irish folk mythology and life ways, stumbled upon a particularly gruesome domestic homicide committed in a small Irish village in the 1890s. At this point, she was confronted with a dilemma -- set aside the story of Bridget Cleary to focus on more pertinent research into folk myth of the era or set aside her scholarly research and write a straightforward account of Bridget's life and death? Unluckily for the reader, Bourke declined to do either and instead cobbled together this slim and ungainly volume.<BR><BR>She deploys one of the more annoying rhetorical devices in any scholar's repertoire -- repeated assertion, the notion that if she states that something is so enough times, then it will be so. This is exactly how she storms the mountain to plant her thesis -- Bridget Cleary died because her neighbors and husband were a bunch of superstitious louts -- victoriously at its crest. Fortunately, she also provides the narrative evidence that shows she herself knows what weak ground she's standing on. She can't tell the story of Cleary's murder in one coherent narrative, because if she did, it would clearly be seen for what it was -- a vicious assault by an enraged spouse motivated not by fear that his wife was ensorceled (sorry, couldn't resist) by the wee folk, but by resentment of her unwillingness to subordinate herself to him.<BR><BR>So, instead we get a book where the sad, horrifying, hair-raising death of Bridget Cleary is parceled out in thin slices wrapped with copious amounts of Bourkean analysis of what folk legends poor, rural Irish Catholics believed near the turn of the 20th Century (my guess, judging from my own family's experience, is that the primary belief among these desperate souls was they were better off getting the ... out of Ireland). And despite her obvious attempts to show compassion and understanding for theprincipal characters in her story, she still comes off sounding as smug and dismissive of the Irish Catholic peasantry as the English Protestants who ran the island at the time.<BR><BR>Paradoxically, I'd say read the book for nothing more than the fact that it will remind you how combustible and deadly domestic violence can be. You might want to pass over the shamrocks and fairy rings, though. They provide an interminable and lamentable distraction to an otherwise powerful tragedy.	2001-08-30
US	50729021	RPAGXQHVYI03A	0679763988	643793154	Dictatorship of Virtue: How the Battle over Multiculturalism Is Reshaping Our Schools, Our Country, and Our Lives	Books	5	33	40	N	N	Remains a seminal text in American intellectual history	Contrary to what one reviewer here claims, Richard Bernstein's analysis of political correctness is trenchant and scrupulously fair to all concerned. What may be especially disconcerting for the ideologically-committed leftist reader is that Bernstein's critique comes not from a right-wing mindset, but from a traditional liberal, pragmatic point of view. What Bernstein nails so accurately is how utterly anti-intellectual political correctness is. He also takes some of his examples from outside the academy, something sure to rile PC cultists who know full well how ridiculous their views are when exposed to the daylight outside a college classroom. History teachers should pair this book up with Richard Hofstadter's &quot;Anti-Intellectualism in American Life&quot; for a lively discussion of how American culture acts instinctively to repress original thought.	2001-07-06
US	50729021	R66UOVLNMF9V4	0306809303	222579196	Rasputin: The Saint Who Sinned	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Russia Made Flesh and Bone	Grigorii Rasputin has entered the symbology of Western civilization as shorthand example of the unreasoning nature of religion and the excesses that arise from religious fanaticism coupled with hypocrisy. Say &quot;Rasputin&quot; and you conjure up an icon-wielding hustler who managed to take a whole empire down with him. But Rasputin himself -- and the impact he had on Russia -- was far more complex than popular memory either remembers or can understand. Probably more than anyone else, Grigorii Yefimovich Rasputin was a living metaphor for the Russia of his era.<br />Brian Moynahan does a good job of exposing the contradictions at the root of Rasputin's life -- the Siberian peasant who embraced Russian Orthodoxy, but could not resist the lure of the secular city; the impoverished starets who could not contain his overwhelming lust for wine, women and influence; the powerful physical presence coupled with an almost incoherent world view that was, at best, shallow and mawkish; the born grafter and village ne'er-do-well who made little personal gain out of his machinations, yet managed to undermine the tsarist regime entirely by placing incompetent thieves at its highest levels; the staunch monarchist whose powerful skills of persuasion, observation and analysis were never able to grasp the need to democratize the tsarist system in order to preserve it. Rasputin, during much of his adult life, was a tangled ball of conflicts and motives. Those same conflicts mirrored those present in Russian society and culture at the time.<br />While certainly not white-washing Rasputin's many high crimes and misdemeanors, Moynahan's treatise renders the starets as a somewhat pitiable character. Ultimately consumed by his basest desires, Grigorii Yefimovich squandered the opportunity his influence over the Romanovs provided him to rise to greatness in the eyes of his countrymen and history. A less dissolute and corrupt Rasputin might have been able to move the tsar away from the slowdrift to war with Germany and Austria-Hungary and wean the tsarina from her disastrous fixation on absolute autocracy at all costs.<br />Moynahan's book doesn't deserve the severe condemnation heaped on it in the New York Times review. It does have its limitations, particularly the awkward English renditions of the original Russian quotes of many of the participants in Rasputin's story. The starets' murder almost certainly included the active participation of the Okhrana and courtiers close to Nicholas II, yet Moynahan breaks no new ground in revealing who those people were and how they fit into the conspiracy.<br />Brian Moynahan tells Rasputin's story with flair and compassion. In doing so, he reveals a nation torn between the best and worst of human behavior and inclination. Russia was no better than Rasputin and vice versus. And in that moral equivalence lay the destruction of an empire and the genocide of several generations that followed the October Revolution.	2001-02-21
US	50729021	R1WFB8R18SM1L6	0679723390	314509680	Speak, Memory: An Autobiography Revisited	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A spiral of life recalled and transformed	Like some of the other reviewers who have posted here, tackling Vladimir Nabokov's autobiography is a daunting proposal. Yet, while Nabokov was no teacher in the conventional sense, I think he would have encouraged readers of this book to mull it over after completing it and find threads that tallied with the sensibilities of their own lives.<br />This is a literary autobiography, which means its ultimate goals are elucidating the author's character, emotional construction and artistic development -- not communicating a straightforward story from birth forward. One of the major themes of Nabokov's life is the malleability of time itself in the grasp of human memory. He concedes at the outset that several episodes he relates in the book have had their particular details -- and Nabokov is almost Proustian when it comes to detail -- challenged by his sisters. What he is trying to establish is how memory can distort time by re-ordering, supressing and even enhancing important personal events of long ago. He makes no authorial claim to perfect recall. We are, in fact, forewarned that what follows may not be factually reliable. What we can rely on are the emotions those memories evoke in an older Nabokov and how they have shaped his perception of the world around him and sculpted the artistic sensibilities which guide his writing.<br />Late in the book, Nabokov observes at length how a spiral resembles Hegel's model of historical dialectic -- thesis, anti-thesis and synthesis or, more simply put: point, counterpoint and a blending of the two which creates a new thesis and keeps the eternal dialogue spiraling into the future. Nabokov adopts the spiral as a model for his own dialectic of event, remembrance and incorporation of the combination of the two into his artistic being. It is as clear an explanation of how memory shapes art as you will ever likely find.<br />The book is organized around Nabokov's memories of his boyhood and young adulthood. We see the Russian boy'senthusiasm for collecting butterflies and moths develop into a life's passion (Nabokov dedicated much of his adult life to lepidoptera studies and was a recognized expert in the field). We also see how this passion opens up the natural world to him and how it stirs the first thoughts of something greater underlying that observable universe.<br />There are some unpleasant aspects to Nabokov's autobiography. The privileged son of Russian nobility and a graduate of Cambridge University, Nabokov radiates a haughty aristocratic sneer at times, an attitude certain to grate on American sensibilities (in Nabokov's defense, he loved his adopted homeland, the U.S.A., with unbridled passion and some of its democratic sensibilities in turn ultimately rubbed off on him). He summarily dismisses writers such as Gorky, Bulgakov and what he deems &quot;regional&quot; American writers (undoubtedly William Faulkner among them) who certainly equalled or surpassed his own merit as a writer. No one could ever accuse Nabokov of being a writer of &quot;the people,&quot; which certainly sets him at odds with the intellectual milieu in which he lived and worked.<br />I've made &quot;Speak, Memory&quot; sound far more rarified than it is. Nabokov has an earthy sense of humor and never takes himself too seriously. This is an excellent book for those struggling to find the elements of their own artistic vision among the scattered shards of their life's memories. It is a graceful, fluttering flight between light and shadow, fact and memory, artistic conformism and personal authenticity. In the end, any of us who aspire to create must choose and choose wisely. Nabokov did and this book is a living example of how we, as artists, as those who would remember with passion for a truth beyond fact, must make our own choices.	2000-09-25
US	50729021	R5SAQ00RN5GQU	067102731X	705687442	Every Dead Thing: A Charlie Parker Thriller	Books	3	4	6	N	N	A Most Promising Start	John Connelly may have what it takes to bring a fresh, new writing style to a genre that desperately needs it. The bottom line is that Connolly is  good -- damned good -- when it comes to the pure beauty of writing style.  Most suspense novelists hack at their prose as if they were wielding a  machete and trying to clear a jungle. Connolly, however, has a great ear  for the rhythm of the sentence and the even greater rhythm of paragraphs  set alight in a dark ocean to frighten, shock and confound us.<br />So, why  not five stars? Because Connelly needs to follow through on his inclination  to experiment with the suspense genre, particularly in terms of  characterization, plot and theme. Ultimately, the body count in this novel  is way too high and undercuts whatever fear and outrage we may feel at the  killings committed by the Travelling Man. Instead of a single, demonic  force striking here and there in an otherwise normal world, we get mayhem  wholesale at every turn and it becomes difficult to draw much distinction  between the Travelling Man's work and the background noise of other  murderers at play in an indifferently murderous world.<br />I was most  disappointed with the Travelling Man. Connolly telegraphs his true identity  and saddles him with a perfectly ludicrous psychological motive for  committing his brutal crimes (&quot;The metaphysical poets made me do  it!&quot;). The killer has no depth, no malice, no sense of thrill when the  game's afoot. Hannibal Lector made an indelible imprint on the popular mind  because he played his murderous rage as a game with his captors. We knew  how devious and dangerous he was and part of the horror was watching how  his machinations unfolded in plain view. He's the kind of guy we'd like to  see take on Richard in the television series, &quot;Survivor.&quot;<br />We  get none of this with the Travelling Man, who ultimately comes off with the  psychological depth of a college freshman drunk on his first exposure to&quot;Ulysses.&quot; Bitter roots bear strange fruit. Since the Travelling  Man has no context, no scary history (unlike the good Dr. Lector), he's  pretty much reduced to standing in the wings and chewing the scenery the  few times he is allowed on-stage.<br />Thomas Harris seems ill-suited to  continue working in the suspense genre, so John Connolly has come along at  a very fortuitous time. A writer of his caliber should do very well, both  in popular and artistic terms, in this genre. But first, he'll have to cast  off the crutches of convention and re-cast his fictional world and the  people who inhabit it in a new moral light. &quot;Every Dead Thing&quot; is  one hell of a step in the right direction. Let's hope Connolly takes a few  more.	2000-08-17
US	50729021	R20S5I9QT3QYOO	0804114641	858076291	Accardo: The Genuine Godfather	Books	4	31	32	N	N	An epitaph for an honorable enemy	William F. Roemer, Jr., may have known Chicago mob boss Anthony Accardo  better than anyone outside the Outfit. That's because Roemer spent much of  his career as an FBI agent trying to put Accardo in prison. He never  succeeded, but over the years he developed a grudging respect for the head  of Chicago's organized crime family. And in this memoir of the mob during  Accardo's reign, Roemer pays just tribute to his old adversary on the  strange terms that inevitably govern relationships between career criminals  and the cops who try to put them away for good. Roemer acknowledges  Accardo's genius, his love for his family and willingness to run the  Chicago Outfit with as little bloodshed as necessary (still a veritable  river, though). At the same time, Roemer makes sure we know how ruthless  and merciless Accardo was and how he never blinked at torture and murder as  management tools to keep his organization under control.<br />Tony Accardo  deserves much closer historical scrutiny than he has received heretofore.  He started his career in organized crime as a protege of Jack McGurn, one  of the Outfit's top enforcers. McGurn is credited both by historians and  mob legend as the man who planned and executed the infamous St. Valentine's  Day Massacre in 1929, a multiple killing that finished off Al Capone's last  real challenge to underworld dominance in the Chicago area. Roemer  speculates that Accardo may have been one of the gunmen who carried out the  hit. If nothing else, Accardo proved to be a very proficient enforcer  himself and this, combined with his obvious intelligence, paved the way for  his rapid rise through the ranks. By the mid 1940s, Accardo was the head of  the former Capone organization, a position of power he would only  relinquish upon his death in the 1990s.<br />Accardo may have been the most  dangerous mobster of them all. He had a genius for every aspect of  organized crime life and he molded the Outfit in his image. Under &quot;Joe  Batters&quot; the Outfit took a much lower public profile than it had  during Capone's flamboyant reign. It also diversified its operations and  expanded its turf to include most of the U.S. west of the Mississippi  River. Accardo constantly shifted strategies and resources to cope with  changing conditions in the underworld and, after the mid-1950s, the  increasing pressure of federal law enforcement to dismantle the Outfit for  good.<br />Roemer had a front seat to most of this. A good intelligence  officer, he came to know Accardo and many of his lieutenants on a personal  basis. I think it is a tribute to Roemer's own sense of fairness that he  acknowledges the good he found in some of these men at the same time he  remorselessly exposes the evil they committed. Roemer also goes out of his  way to make sure we understand that many of the Outfit's members made sure  their own children never followed them into the life. A man who obviously  loves his own family, Roemer recognizes that instinct in the men he hunted  and honors it. It may strike us as odd or even perverse, but in the small  world of the Outfit and those honest lawmen trying to break it, it's a  stand-up behavior.<br />Roemer has been called onto the carpet by other  reviewers of this book for injecting himself too much into the narrative. I  understand the limitations this imposes on the book's narrative,  limitations which ultimately undermine it as a close account of Accardo's  career and the history of the Chicago mob between the end of the Capone era  and today. But someone without a vested personal interest in that history  will someday provide us with the narrative account we really want.<br />I say  take Roemer's book on its own terms -- an autobiography viewed through the  lens of the life of Chicago's greatest criminal ever. You'll come away with  a vivid impression of both men and a feel for how the terms of adversarial  engagement between mobsters and lawmen create their own strange set of  ethics and morals over time. In that sense, Roemer has presented us with a  very important sociological source document.	2000-08-13
US	50729021	R3L177X96B71CB	0743411536	896977266	Blair Witch: The Secret Confession of Rustin Parr	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Well-crafted genre piece	This novel, which I assume must be tied into the sequel to &quot;The Blair Witch Project,&quot; is a well-crafted piece of horror genre. Given the  wretched state of horror fiction in general right now, that's high praise,  indeed. &quot;The Secret Confessions&quot; is chopped and channeled,  stripped down to the basics of spare prose, straightforward narrative and  the final twist in the tale down the back stretch, where everything falls  into place with little effort.<br />Rustin Parr is the recluse hung by the  State of Maryland in 1941 for the murders of seven children in the basement  of his house in a forest near Burkittsville. Parr's final confession is  given to a young Roman Catholic priest who has some sins of his own that he  carries with him from Burkittsville. Sixty years later, an acquaintance of  the priest, who has long since renounced his holy orders, struggles to find  out why the old man burned his house down, killing his beloved wife in the  process and leaving him comatose with third-degree burns.<br />You won't need  to be a Blair Witch fan to enjoy this novel, which can be read in one  sitting. Stern gives you everything you need to understand what happened in  Burkittsville and why the evil there found its way to the home of an  elderly couple in Florida. Horror fiction rises or falls on a few key  points. One involves whether the supernatural action arises from simple  human frailty, a dark force entering through a chink in the armor of an  otherwise decent, normal person. Good horror hews close to reality -- at  all points, we must be able to empathize with the human targets of evil,  which requires them to act and react in ways that we ourselves would react  if faced with the same situation.<br />D.A. Stern accomplishes both of these  goals here. He also doesn't condescend to the reader with a neatly-wrapped  ending. You'll be able to figure out what happened in Rustin Parr's  basement, but only if you pay attention, catch the clues Sternprovides and  put them together on your own.<br />For a book no doubt designed simply to  keep public interest alive in a popular horror movie, D.A. Stern has gone  above and beyond the call of duty. &quot;The Secret Confessions,&quot; with  its echoes of Nathaniel Hawthorne, is one of the best piece of horror  fiction you will run across this year.	2000-08-12
US	50729021	R35CHGXYTL0MMZ	0306809567	79909305	This Grim And Savage Game: The Oss And U.s. Covert Operations In World War II	Books	2	17	17	N	N	Ripping good yarn, but history?	Tom Moon's account of OSS operations during World War II has all the dash and elan of an Alistair MacLean (&quot;Guns of Navarone&quot;) novel, but  precious little of the balance, objectivity and perspective that kindles  truly accurate and thoughtful historical writing. A deeply flawed work, it  is nonetheless a fun read and offers a peek at a part of the war that has  so far eluded widespread public interest.<br />The book is really an extended  wartime biography of Carl Eifler, the U.S. Customs agent who is present at  Pearl Harbor on Dec. 7, 1941, and soon moves from Army officer to shadow  warrior, organizing clandestine intelligence and guerilla warfare against  the Japanese in the mountainous jungles of Burma. Eifler is portrayed so  much bigger than life that you begin to wonder if he is stronger than a  locomotive, faster than a speeding bullet and able to leap tall buildings  in a single bound.<br />The Eifler anecdotes come fast and furious and they do  paint a rather vivid picture of a man Moon obviously admires. The picture  is a bit too vivid. Eifler may have been as crucial to the war effort in  Southeast Asia as Moon claims, but his real role in history is eventually  diminished by the outlandishness of the incidents portrayed in this book.  Moon was an OSS member at the age of 19. His feelings about Eifler have the  overt hero worship and two-diminsional quality of an immature young man.  Ironically, in his bid to enshrine the memory of a man he admires, Moon  cheapens Eifler's true accomplishments as an OSS officer.<br />The book is  further marred by Moon's jarring aversion to punctuation, most notably  commas and possessive apostrophes. Did anyone at the publishing house  actually edit this book? I've noticed an overall decline in quality control  in books published during the past decade or so in the U.S. -- errors so  obvious and egregious that any proofreader who allowed them into a final  galley should be fired. This book simply takes that trend to a new, lower  level.<br />Having damned Moon, let me praise him in one important area -- he  doesn't flinch from the very painful moral and ethical questions that  clandestine warfare and espionage engender from the very start. Many of  Moon's comrades committed horrific acts of violence while carrying out  their duties in the OSS. Moon makes sure we understand what these men and  women willingly gave up to serve their country. He also takes pains to note  that most of them were able to return to society as law-abiding, productive  citizens. He doesn't, however, try to whitewash the fact that dancing with  the devil, no matter how virtuous the cause, leaves scars on the soul.<br />I  wouldn't go out of my way to read this book. I'd much rather have had a  first-hand account of Moon's own experiences as an OSS operative. I wonder  whether that was too painful for him to write, leaving us instead with a  ripping good yarn of the war he wants to remember and not the war he really  fought.	2000-08-04
US	50729021	R1PJMLS5NWQB0	0141180102	806862906	Omensetter's Luck (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	53	63	N	N	The grim poetry of faith gained through tragedy	This is an unusual novel -- difficult to read, yet fascinating at the same time. It's also a work of brilliance with lapidary sentences of poetic stature and a brilliant exposition of character. All in all, I was  dumb-founded to stumble across &quot;Omensetter's Luck&quot; and grateful  that I did.<br />The novel takes place in the 1890s in a small town in Ohio  just north of the Ohio River. The title character, Brackett Omensetter, is  a happy-go-lucky craftsman who wanders into town one day with his wife and  daughters. The Omensetters settle into a rented house down by the river and  are gradually accepted by the community. Accepted, that is, by all save the  town's puritanical Protestant minister, the Rev. Jethro Furber. Furber is a  monster forged by religious convention untempered by religious conviction.  He resents being banished to Gilean from Cleveland (his fire and brimstone  sermons do not go over any better with his congregation there) and spends  much of his time brooding bitterly about his downfall, much like Satan in  Milton's poetry. He is also sexually frustrated and edging toward a nervous  breakdown barely cloaked in the form of religious mania.<br />Furber's wrath  is ultimately focused on Brackett Omensetter, if for no other reason than  the man seems to enjoy an incredible grace without exhibiting the first  ounce of good Christian behavior. Omensetter's luck changes many lives,  some for good and some for bad. But his unintended redemption of Rev.  Furber may be Omensetter's greatest piece of luck during his time in  Gilean. In the end, Omensetter's catalytic luck brings Furber to the faith  he has long espoused, but never really lived in his  heart.<br />&quot;Omensetter's Luck&quot; is about chance, human choice and  the struggle all of us face when we try to live as our honest, open, decent  selves. The novel is a difficult read because it uses the  stream-of-consciousness technique throughout and two-thirds of it is  narrated by the splintering mind of Jethro Furber. I recommend that you  take it at a leisurely pace, savor the prose and pay attention to Rev.  Furber's miraculous change of heart. This is Nobel Prize-level writing and  certainly deserves a place of honor in late 20th Century American  fiction.<br />I wouldn't recommend &quot;Omensetter's Luck&quot; for any  student below graduate school level. They won't get it. Ironically, I think  many older readers who don't even have college degrees will find that the  novel resonates powerfully with them. Gass' work here rewards the reader  who comes to it with years of experience in the &quot;real&quot; world. For  them, the power of its prose is matched by the power of its truth.	2000-07-27
US	50729021	R2BIB82JXMLP7N	067973225X	161451712	As I Lay Dying: The Corrected Text	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Between what is and what is not	&quot;As I Lay Dying&quot; is a meditation of sorts on what human existence means. Now, this sounds like a lofty and intricate philosophical discussion, but it's not. Faulkner uses the stream-of-consciousness  technique to tell the story of Addie Bundren's final journey to the grave  through the eyes and hearts of a dozen or so characters, including Addie  herself.<br />What we're meant to see here, I think, is how tenuous our very  sense of existence really is and how it is shaped by the events of our  lives. Pay particular attention to Dewey Dell's constant thoughts about  being and not being -- what actually exists and what she does not want to  exist, namely the illegitimate child she is carrying in her womb. This  theme is also a stark feature of Addie's one chapter, presumably narrated  on her death bed, although it does not occur until well near the end of the  book, leading the reader to wonder whether we are hearing her tale of  bitterness and emotional disconnectionn from beyond the grave.<br />The  chapters told through the eyes of Darl, the strange second son of Anse and  Addie, are key not only to the book's plot, but to its theme. The family  and neighbors suspect Darl is somewhat mad. He seems, however, to be almost  psychic and extremely sensitive to the flow of events around him. Darl is a  seer for whom time -- past, present and future -- is a seamless whole.  Darl's chapters are by far the most poetic in the book and the most  intricate for readers to navigate. It's well worth the effort.<br />In the  end, the Bundren family's epic struggle to get Addie's body to the town  cemetery where her own family is buried turns out to be a tragi-comic tale  of how the Bundrens begin their own disintegration as a family. As Addie's  corpse rots in its handmade coffin -- handmade by eldest son Cash and  disfigured by youngest son Vardaman, who drills holes in the lid and into  Addie's face -- the absence of her existence allows the Bundrens to  implode.<br />There are two clues to what lies at the center of this novel  (there are probably many, many others -- these two were the ones that stood  out starkly to me). First, in her solitary chapter, Addie quotes her  father: &quot;the reason for living was to get ready to stay dead a long  time.&quot; Second, note that at several points in the novel, people greet  one another: &quot;The Lord giveth.&quot; We never hear the antiphony,  &quot;And the Lord taketh away.&quot; The Lord of &quot;As I Lay  Dying&quot; gives both good and bad. It's up to humans to make what they  will of what they are given.<br />This book is probably a bit too much for  high schoolers. Undergrads will enjoy it, as will graduate students. Adult  readers shouldn't be scared away by Faulkner's reputation for writing stuff  that, quite frankly, is difficult to read. It's not, but it does require  you to read it at its own pace. Take the novel on those terms -- linger  over the free-flowing stream of thoughts and dash through the more  straightforward chapters that advance the plot and deepen the  characterization. If you are willing to do this, you'll find &quot;As I Lay  Dying&quot; a gem that draws you back time after time.	2000-07-16
US	50729021	R2WNTEX1ZOO385	0679748148	942831312	Sanctuary: The Corrected Text	Books	4	38	44	N	N	Gimme Shelter	&quot;Sanctuary&quot; has a double meaning in this novel -- the sanctuary we seek against the cruel events that occur in life and sanctuary against those things in ourselves that are most primitive, volatile and evil.  Faulkner's characters here are in search of sanctuary in both meanings,  although the theme is not well-developed and the plot is so misshapen that  it detracts from the overall impact of the main  theme.<br />&quot;Sanctuary&quot; is Faulkner's stab at writing noir-ish  detective fiction. You'd figure he would take to the genre like a duck to  water (at least I did) given its emphasis on mood, place and moral  struggle. All of these elements show up in the novel, but haphazardly. I  think Faulkner was probably prevented from writing the noir novel he really  wanted by the spirit of the times, which weren't supportive of the degree  of brutality he intended to display in the novel (We get a glimpse of this  when we see the stained corncob that Popeye used to violate Temple Drake).  He would later half-heartedly repudiate &quot;Sanctuary&quot; as a failed  attempt to make some money, an excuse probably designed to get his  neighbors in Oxford, Miss., off his back and to satisfy the sob sisters in  the national media who were ready to crucify him for writing a novel  containing violence of almost pornographic intensity.<br />When reading  &quot;Sanctuary,&quot; think about how each one of the characters -- save  for Popeye, Mrs. Goodwin and DA Eustace Graham -- loses himself or herself  in some form of self-delusion to avoid dwelling on the worst parts of their  own character and existence. Even Horace Benbow's courageous decision to  defend Mr. Graham against charges of murder is little more than an attempt  to distract himself from his marital woes and the fact that he is so  obviously out of place in his own home town now.<br />&quot;Sanctuary&quot;  could have been Faulkner's masterpiece and some current-day critics suggest  that perhaps it is. It'snot. Faulkner should have re-written the book,  smoothed the plot, fleshed out the characters far more than they are in the  current text and allowed for a more leisurely examination of man's struggle  for safe haven, both physically and spiritually. &quot;Sanctuary&quot; is a  very powerful examination of the evil that men and women do and, in that  sense, it is a very Catholic novel. I would not recommend its use in high  school or lower-level college undergraduate survey courses. It's simply too  intricate to be useful for students at those levels. But for an upper-level  course in American lit, American culture, religion or philosophy,  &quot;Sanctuary&quot; is an appropriate text with quite a bit to say about  modern man and the chains that bind his soul.	2000-07-09
US	50729021	R3P0I8TNPVTIIJ	0684869098	220640963	Lost At Sea	Books	5	20	21	N	N	How tragedy shapes public policy	This book is inevitably bound to be missed in all the hoopla attending the release of the film version of Sebastian Junger's &quot;The Perfect Storm.&quot; That's a true shame, because Dillon's account of the dangers  of commercial fishing in the Bering Sea is not only poignant, but an  incisive look into how the loss of human life can bring about public policy  changes that will save other lives in the future.<br />If you read the Junger  book, you'll like this one, too. Dillon doesn't quite have the flair for  characterization or drama that Junger wields, but he does manager to convey  the horrors of a sudden capsizing in the frigid sea, a common event which  few fishermen survive. The story focuses on the trawlers Americus and  Altair, which disappeared in February, 1983, less than 25 miles off the  coast of Unalaska Island in a heavily-traveled sea lane. The ships  disappeared in relatively calm water. The capsized hull of Americus was  spotted a few days later, but sank in 4,200 feet of water before divers  could enter the hull and search for survivors or bodies. Altair was never  found, save for some small bits of debris. Fourteen men, most of them under  the age of 25, died in the sinkings.<br />Dillon covers the disaster's awful  impact on the dead men's survivors, then moves on to a careful account of  the Coast Guard investigation into the disaster. He fairly gives us hints  in the narrative leading up to the sinkings that should tip even the most  non-mechanically inclined reader to what probably caused the ships' losses.  When it becomes clear later on what that cause was, Dillon's little trick  allows us to feel the same sense of dawning horror that the ships' owner, a  conscientious and decent man, and architect must have felt when they  realized what had happened and that it had been preventable.<br />Finally,  Dillon covers the political fall-out of the sinkings, which helped spur  Congress to pass the first federal legislation mandating safety precautions  on commercial fishing vessels. He tells it straight up -- how the victims'  families and the families of other lost fishermen organized to get the law  passed, how special interest politics slowed -- and nearly stopped -- its  passage and how the persistence of these ordinary citizens and a few  legislators finally carried the day.<br />This is a great book for those who  love sea disaster stories. Dillon obviously has a great sympathy for the  men who fish the Bering Sea and a keen perception of the brutal environment  in which they must work and how dangerous their jobs are. He also does a  fine job of documenting how the families left behind in Anacortes,  Washington, (the home port of the two lost trawlers) lived with the  inevitability that tragedy would find its way to their own doorsteps and  dealt with the overwhelming sorrow and loss once it did.<br />But this book's  real value lies in the account it gives of the political machinations  required to pass even the simplest safety legislation. Public policy  instructors would be well-advised to read this book and consider it for use  in their own courses. It's &quot;sausage making&quot; at its most  gut-wrenching worst.	2000-07-02
US	50729021	R2Y7605ATV9MIN	0140444610	55169867	Early Greek Philosophy (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	35	36	N	N	Solid introduction to the subject, but needs context	I don't profess to be an expert in ancient Greek philosophy (or any other kind, for that matter), but I have wondered what roots Plato, via his Socrates, had drawn upon for his splendid work in a wide variety of  subjects. This book is a solid introduction to those roots and cheap at the  price.<br />The Pre-Socratics are important because they provide the first  tenuous link in a great shift from explanation via religious belief to  explanation via rational inquiry. These men, scattered throughout the Greek  world and across several centuries, looked at the world around them and  tried to construct the &quot;first principles&quot; that would explain how  that world came to be and what it was made of. Democritus, Heraclitus,  Anaxagoras, Parmenides and the many other authors presented here aren't  household names, but they are the foundation of our view of the world both  as physical object and mental representation.<br />It is striking how much of  this thought will sound very familiar to anyone with exposure to current  physics or, say, Heideggerian philosophy. The Pre-Socratics have much to  say to our culture in particular despite the vast differences in  intellectual frame of reference between the two.<br />That said, this is a  good starting point for studying the Pre-Socratics. Johnathan Barnes has  worked scrupulously to overcome a seemingly insurmountable historigraphic  roadblock -- the fact that most of these philosophers are known to us only  third-hand by quotation in works produced centuries after their deaths by  Roman and medieval scholars. His documentation of the textual sources of  the material is very helpful, although its arrangment on the page is often  confusing and we're not sure whether we're listening to Barnes or one of  the intermediary scholars.<br />This book needs more historical context and  more intellectual context that will help neophytes like myself understand  the impact these philosophers have had on Western thought. Penguin usually  does a good job of supplying just such an essay with each book. Barnes does  have a short introduction, but it's not enough.<br />These caveats aside, I  have no qualms about recommending this collection for use in the classroom,  especially if done so under the guidance of an instructor who is  well-grounded in this era of Greek history. Those of us coming to these  works later in life may want to supplement this with other, more scholarly  interpretations and analyses.	2000-06-26
US	50729021	R18GI96UTJ6KJ9	006101351X	637283524	The Perfect Storm: A True Story of Men Against the Sea	Books	5	0	0	N	N	For those in peril on the sea	Life began in the ocean. It thrives in the ocean. It often provides us with delicacies of all kinds, food to keep us alive. And, ironically, the ocean can take back lives in the blink of an eye, without mercy or  pardon.<br />This is a very simple tale, the same tale that one finds from the  Odyssey down to our age -- man pitted against a cruel sea. Shipwreck tales  hold a fascination for us because we can imagine ourselves in the same  situation and because they typically unfold so slowly that we can have some  choice of action that may or may not allow us to escape death. The enduring  appeal of the Titanic is a classic case in point.<br />No millionaires died on  the Andrea Gail the night she foundered in the North Atlantic off Nova  Scotia. Her disappearance did not herald the end of an entire era. But her  crew, who died with her, were fortunate to have a masterful story-teller  chronicle their sacrifice.<br />By the time you read this review, you will  likely have seen the movie or at least been bombarded by the studio's  marketing campaign for it. Please honor the memory of the crew of the  Andrea Gail and the U.S. Coast Guardsmen who risked their lives to save  others by reading this book. Please remember that their families are real  people still struggling with a tragic loss -- children who have lost  fathers, parents who have lost children, women who have lost the men they  loved.<br />Junger's book is harrowing. Death aboard a sinking ship is not  romantic; it's sudden and frightening. Those who make their living on the  sea entrust their own lives to a capricious element. And when that trust is  betrayed, as Junger shows, the results can be devastating.	2000-06-26
US	50729021	R1XXF25YX171E4	0440223822	842292252	Outrage: The Five Reasons Why O.J. Simpson Got Away With Murder	Books	5	26	30	N	N	What Would Vince Do?	Uber-prosecutor Vincent Bugliosi spares no punches in this triumph of judicial genius reviewing the less-than-admirable performance of both legal teams in the O.J. Simpson murder trial. Bugliosi, the man who put Charles  Manson and his followers away, is not one to let either his ego or critical  restraint get in the way of stating his opinions. This ultimately turns out  to be exactly what the book needs to live up to its goal of conducting a  thorough autopsy on the conduct and outcome of the trial.<br />Bugliosi gores  every ox he can lay his hands on, from the frighteningly inept lead  prosecutors to a judge smitten with his new-found status as a media icon to  a defense team only slightly less incompetent than its opposition and  certainly morally compromised to a self-important and uncritical media that  worried more about the &quot;buzz&quot; surrounding the trial than the  actual facts and arguments themselves. Bugliosi even indulges in extensive  comparisons of what various attorneys told the jury with what he himself  would have said had he been trying the case. After awhile, you become  uncomfortably aware that Bugliosi is right in his assessment of the trial  and its participants. You also pray that he's not quite so accurate in his  prediction of how the trial will taint race relations in the U.S. for  decades to come.<br />Bugliosi gives two seemingly juicy targets - the  primarily black jury and LAPD Det. Mark Fuhrman -- more benefit of the  doubt than either were ever given by major media outlets at the time of the  verdict. Bugliosi makes a good argument that the jury's verdict was not  based on racial nullification, but instead confusion over how solid the  prosecution's evidence was and how weak the defense's argument was. It's a  good argument, but not, in the end, a convincing one.<br />He also  rehabilitates Fuhrman somewhat by balancing the detective's stupid  perjurious statement about whether he had ever used the \\"N\\" word with a  look at Fuhrman's actual record as a cop. The arrogant, swaggering  detective may have talked the talk of a bigot, but he obviously didn't walk  the walk since most of his partners in the decade and a half prior to the  Simpson case were black and Latino and none experienced racial problems  with him. Bugliosi even reveals that Fuhrman, on his own, accumulated the  evidence necessary to clear a black homicide suspect that Fuhrman himself  had originally arrested and investigated. Fuhrman's willingness to lie on  the stand during the Simpson trial and, earlier, to lie to psychologists  about his emotional state of mind in order to secure an early retirement  are still loathsome, especially since the latter was an outright betrayal  of people whose trust and respect Fuhrman had earned. But Bugliosi at least  allows Fuhrman a somewhat more complex character than the thoroughly evil,  unrepentant racist portrayed by the media.<br />This is probably one of the  best texts available on how to judge for yourself what's actually going on  in a courtroom if you're not a lawyer. True crime junkies may be  disappointed because Bugliosi's intent is not to construct a narrative of  the case from start to finish. Instead, he uses the Simpson case as a  mirror to show us some things that are terribly wrong with our culture, our  society and our justice system.	2000-06-19
US	50729021	RDP81530ZJOM6	0374157065	503232720	Flu: The Story of the Great Influenza Pandemic of 1918 and the Search for the Virus That Caused It	Books	4	4	5	N	N	It'll be back...someday	We are fortunate to live in an age when the threat of deadly, contagious disease is so rare that many of us outside the gay community (thanks to HIV/AIDS in the 80s) cannot fathom the fear that a pandemic generates. The  Spanish Influenza of 1918 is the last time the United States faced such an  episode and, as such, is worthy of a good, solid historical  treatment.<br />You won't get that from this book. Ms. Kolata has been  pilloried by many reviewers here for not fleshing out the handful of  stories she uses to illustrate the 1918 pandemic. It's a journalistic  technique that, used properly, can evoke to the emotional experience of  what took place so long ago. I agree that Kolata gives less than a  satisfying account of the pandemic. She does, however, tout Crosby's work  at several points and I'm willing to accept that as a gesture of good faith  -- she may have known that the more history-minded readers would feel left  in the lurch when she shifted her narrative focus to the  present.<br />Dismissing Kolata for providing an insufficient account from an  epidemiological or microbiological standpoint is a fool's game. You don't  learn those disciplines through a book aimed at a mass market audience. You  learn them through enrolling in a university and studying them sufficiently  to earn a degree. Or, if you don't want to spend that much time and money,  you look elsewhere here on Amazon.com for a textbook in the subject and you  buy that and read it. Spare the rest of us your gripes that Kolata wasn't  sufficiently detailed enough in her explanations of the science involved in  hunting down the influenza virus and replicating the 1918 strain. She  provided enough that my attention was beginning to wander at points.  Authors and publishers of books aimed at mass audiences tend to avoid  provoking boredom in the reader. It cuts down on sales.<br />What should not  be overlooked about this book is its account of how politics -- both within  the academy and outside in the &quot;real&quot; world -- shapes scientific  exploration. Kolata does an outstanding job of laying out the deleterious  effects the former often has on the latter. Anyone who has watched the  Republican-dominated U.S. Congress dismantle the Office of Technology  Assessment or read about the Baltimore scandal should have serious doubts  that the existing federally-funded science research community could respond  to another devastating pandemic in a timely and informed manner.<br />I'm not  the biggest fan of Gina Kolata's work in the New York Times because it is  often shallow and ideologically driven. But I'll stand up for her on this  one. She hasn't written the definitive account of the 1918 pandemic. But  she has documented a disaster brewing in our nation's science community and  this book could well come to be seen as prophetic.	2000-06-11
US	50729021	R27EEVPREZ66SS	0140292594	363901167	Breakout: The Chosin Reservoir Campaign, Korea 1950	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Hey, Spielberg, here's a great movie property for you!	It's unfortunate that Korean War veterans are finally getting due recognition for their unheralded sacrifices in a cold, desolate corner of the world half a century ago by way of a drummed-up scandal. They deserve  better than No Gun Ri as an epitaph. Martin Russ provides it.<br />The Chosin  Reservoir campaign was born in overwhelming disaster and redeemed only by  the selfless courage of U.S. Marines, Army and Navy aviators. Yes, this is  going to be a controversial book because Russ is especially harsh in his  assessment of the Army's performance on the east bank of the Chosin  Reservoir. In large part, the GIs were let down horribly by their  commanding officers, particularly Gen. Almond, whose complacency nearly got  every man of them killed.<br />But Russ does show us those GI survivors who  weren't willing to go down without one hell of a fight. That's the most we  can ever ask of any soldier. Many doggies kept the faith at Chosin and  upheld the best traditions of their branch of the service.<br />Chosin, for  the U.S. Marine Corps, may have been its finest moment since Iwo Jima. From  the first, terrifying night assaults at Yudam-ni to the end of the  campaign, these men got the job done in weather and combat conditions that  deserve to be described as &quot;hellish.&quot; They were well-led, for the  most part, and not about to let the overwhelming odds stop  them.<br />&quot;Saving Private Ryan&quot; was a moving tribute to the good  fight against fascism in Europe. The Korean Conflict deserves its own  cinematic treatment, one that accurately reflects the doubtful nature of  the U.S. commitment to South Korea and to its own troops. If nothing else,  it wouldn't hurt for the children and the grandchildren of the men who  fought at the Chosin Reservoir to see the suffering their grandfathers  endured for them.<br />Until Mr. Spielberg decides to film the saga of the  Chosin Reservoir, Martin Russ' marvelous account stands as an elegy to a  generation thatAmerican history has, at times, seemed to forget. To all  the men who served at Chosin -- to those who lived and those who died -- no  matter what branch of the service, thank you for what you did. And thank  you, Mr. Russ, for calling the attention of younger Americans like myself  to this outstanding saga of heroism.	2000-06-11
US	50729021	R15XX1PZTIWXUV	0452281377	306044854	7 (Seven) Kinds of Smart: Identifying and Developing Your Multiple Intelligences	Books	5	79	79	N	N	Refreshingly optimistic and straightforward	There's literally a little something for everyone in this book, which popularizes the cognitive psychological work of Howard Gardner, whom Armstrong goes out of his way to credit with developing the theory of  multiple intelligences.<br />That little something should be a comfort to all  of us -- we each are smart in our own way. Gardner has identified seven  specific types of intelligence that all human beings have access to in  varying degrees. Armstrong's very welcome addition is to help lay readers  understand what qualities are embodied in each intelligence and how to  gauge our own specific level in each category.<br />He also explains that we  need not be limited by those intelligences that are least developed in us.  It is never too late to take up activities that will help us cultivate each  of the seven primary intelligences and, in the process, have fun,  experience personal growth and enjoy life.<br />Gardner is, from what I've  read, still tinkering with adding more types of intelligences to his  original list of seven. This edition of Armstrong's book lists two new  possibilities -- naturalistic intelligence and existential intelligence --  and explains Gardner's criteria for identifying intelligences that can be  added to the list.<br />This is not a feel-good, self-help book. The theory of  multiple intelligences could be a major breakthrough in cognitive  psychology and certainly warrants further research. Armstrong's gift is to  make those of us who don't toil in the groves of psychological academe  aware of Howard Gardner's work and its potential impact on our individual  lives.<br />Buy the book, read it and think about the intelligences you have  most developed. Think about others around you and their hierarchy of  developed intelligences. It doesn't take long to realize that everyone --  from a king to a pauper -- can lay valid claim to a unique genius composed  of their levels of development in the various identified intelligences,  their lifeexperiences and the choices they make. If nothing else, multiple  intelligences should remind us forcefully that everyone deserves our  respect as human beings.	2000-05-28
US	50729021	R5B2CGEG6JKDS	0345427785	625419312	East of A	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Noir for a New Millenium	The mystery novel is probably the closest thing we have to a moral x-ray machine capable of penetrating through the shiny, slick surface of a malled-out America to illuminate the tawdry recesses of its darkest inner  organs.<br />Russell Atwood is off to a fantastic start, seizing all of the  noir conventions and making them work for a new generation. Payton Sherwood  isn't a knight on a white horse. He's just a working stiff trying to get  through the day with his hide intact and keep his conscience square with  the house.<br />Noir fiction, the best at least, is a morality play pitting a  flawed hero against the temptations of lust, greed, anger and revenge. The  characters the hero comes across during his investigation inevitably serve  as avatars of these various human frailties. Our pay-off as readers comes  when the hero, despite his personal woes, does the right thing, the thing  we all hope we would do in his situation, but aren't sure we  would.<br />Atwood seems to understand this emotional dynamic implicitly. What  he brings to the table is a fantastic ear for snappy dialogue and  characterizations that refuse to divide cleanly into black and white  absolutes.<br />This is a fast read and it's well worth the time and money.  Russell Atwood is on his way to a great career as a mystery writer and  commentator on modern mores.	2000-05-28
US	50729021	R23ZIB15P4VVS0	0671034677	543065158	The Embrace: A True Vampire Story	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Overlong, confusing and pedestrian	The problems with this book can't be entirely laid at Aphrodite Jones' feet. The hook -- homicidal teenage vampire cultists -- doesn't have much power to sustain the narrative over 400 pages.<br />Jones doesn't do a very  good job of structuring that narrative. It gets very confusing at times,  mostly because too much of it is taken verbatim from inarticulate teenagers  either involved with the vampire &quot;family&quot; or close to its  individual members. One can imagine Jones sifting through the manuscript,  deleting &quot;like,&quot; &quot;uh,&quot; and &quot;y'now?&quot; at a  manic pace from the directly quoted passages.<br />She doesn't do much to  explain the psychological and cultural factors that led to the murders of  Heather Wendorf's parents. Jones doesn't explain the Goth subculture and  makes this group of teens seem far more sinister than they really are (in  fact, most of the ones I've met are actually decent kids). She doesn't  bother to delineate the differences between mainstream Goth and its  vampiric offshoot. She doesn't take the time to give us a thorough  background of the book's main villain, Rod, the leader of the vampire  family and the man who actually committed the Wendorf murders.<br />Jones'  approach to the Wendorf case reminds me of the &quot;Reefer Madness&quot;  style of true crime reporting from the 50s and 60s, where deviation from  the cultural norm is a moral sin punishable by death and disaster. It's a  shallow, simplistic approach and turns the individuals involved into  two-dimensional cardboard cut-outs.<br />By the time you reach the end, you  wonder what in the hell took Rod so long to commit an atrocity. That he did  it in a disorganized manner, powered by an anger that he justified by means  of a fantasy and confessed the moment he was arrested makes him a somewhat  banal sociopath. Jones tries to stoke our anger and outrage at Rod's  behavior and his actions. Big deal -- how about diverting some of that  authorial energy toward a very important question? Rod and his coven were  way out of control long before he ever set foot in the Wendorf home. Why  didn't an adult intervene before their pathological fantasies snowballed  into a brutal homicide?	2000-05-22
US	50729021	R10ZTPLCVYEDZZ	014118048X	430581137	Jazz Age Stories (Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	An Important Collection of Fitzgerald's Work	Nostalgia has an inevitable foreshortening effect upon reputation. For most of us, Fitzgerald is the perenially young, perenially arch chronicler of the 1920s Jazz Age -- of bathtub gin, flappers, rumrunners and boats  born ceaselessly back.<br />This collection of short stories does much to  restore an unappreciated side of Fitzgerald the writer, most notably his  willingness to experiment with technique, his almost existential grasp of  human absurdity and his articulation of unease and pessimism about the  possibilities of the American Dream.<br />The stories range widely in quality  from precious parodies from his Princeton years (&quot;Jemina&quot;) to  profoundly moving glimpses of the human condition (&quot;The Lees of  Happiness&quot;). Even the most insubstantial of the stories printed here  are worth the read for, if nothing else, they show that even at his  youngest and roughest, Fitzgerald had a keen grasp of voice and description  and how to use it to breath life into wispy plot lines.<br />I take issue with  some of the critical recommendations contained in Patrick O'Donnell's fine  introduction to the collection. I did not, for instance, find &quot;The  Diamond as Big as the Ritz&quot; particularly impressive. I think the best  stories are those that hew to a psychological theme prevalent in  Fitzgerald's fiction and his adult life -- the dread of what comes after  youth and a nostalgic fixation on youth as the best time in a person's  life. The stories I liked most -- &quot;The Lees of Happiness,&quot;  &quot;The Ice Palace,&quot; &quot;The Cut Glass Bowl,&quot;  &quot;Benediction,&quot; &quot;The Four Fists,&quot; &quot;'O Russet  Witch!'&quot; -- all tackle this theme.<br />Many of the stories in this  volume aren't profound, but are just a delightful read. I defy you, for  instance, to read &quot;The Camel's Back&quot; without bursting out loud in  laughter over its protagonist's gyrations and setbacks in quest of his true  love.<br />There is a wistfulness at the center of Fitzgerald's prose and his  life story that seems to have faded from our collective remembrance of him  as a Great American Author. This volume does much to remind us of that  winsome note and to remind us that Fitzgerald paid dearly for it in his  personal life as it lit up his writing at the same time.	2000-05-07
US	50729021	R1N853T7MPTFKK	1879237970	805680544	Angry All the Time: An Emergency Guide to Anger Control	Books	5	42	44	N	N	Simple and effective	Ron Potter-Effron provides a great introduction to the topic of why some people are always angry. He also offers a lifeline for those people who would like to escape the unhealthy anger they have carried with them for  most of their lives.<br />Like any radical lifestyle change, it takes a great  deal of effort, conscious effort, to let go of your anger. Potter-Efron is  very up-front about the amount of time and effort it will take you to  achieve your goal. The important point, however, is that it's doable. You  start off small and, to use Effron-Potter's concept of a ladder hierarchy  of anger levels, climb down toward real peace of mind and calm.<br />This is a  wonderful, unpretentious book with a lot of sound advice for rageaholics  and the people who love them.<br />My only disagreement with Potter-Effron  concerns his insistence that we have to let go of hatred to live a full and  happy life. In some circumstances, it is impossible, even dangerous, to  forgive someone for something they have done to you. I guess my response to  his absolutist position on hatred would be a recommendation that you  forgive only when it makes sense and is appropriate. In fairness to  Potter-Effron, I think most hatreds probably should be settled by  forgiveness and his advice on how to do so is very worthwhile.<br />This is  one of those self-help books you can read in a couple of hours. You can  also put its strategies to work immediately. But don't expect immediate  results and don't give up. It took you a long time to climb to the top of  the anger ladder. It'll take a while to climb back down safely.	2000-04-16
US	50729021	RDTTRJT0MOZGF	0385324081	465508246	The Thin Red Line: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	&quot;It were better that war is so terrible...	...else we should grow to love it so.&quot; Robert E. Lee supposedly murmurred these sentiments as he watched hundreds of Union soldiers being mowed down by rifle and cannon fire as they tried to storm Marye's Heights  during the Battle of Fredricksburg in 1862. Nearly one hundred years later,  C-for-Charlie Company finds out for itself on a deadly hill and jungle in  the Solomon Islands the truth of Lee's sentiment.<br />This is the best  novelistic treatment of warfare in the Pacific Theater in World War II.  Jones manages to skip the familiar cliches about how tragic it is that  children must die in these wars or that their ultimate sacrifice has helped  save a grateful nation.<br />The truth is that there are no children in  foxholes. And the United States, to its terrible shame, has yet to show  even a modicum of gratitude to its World War II vets by building an  appropriate monument to them on the Mall in Washington, D.C.<br />One reader  complains that Jones throws so many characters into the narrative that you  need a scorecard to keep them all straight. While this may be confusing for  the reader, it represents exactly the confusion that men in units like  C-for-Charlie Company experienced every day as men were killed and wounded  around them and strangers came to take their place. These strangers will  only become known to the surviving members of C-for-Charlie Company as they  suffer with the old timers.<br />Jones is doing so much with this book --  consciously echoing the martial tragedy of the Iliad, crafting a realistic  account of modern combat and asking questions about how men resolve the  terrors of combat and what that numbing experience does to their sense of  self, their sense of humanity. He also uses a Joycean amalgam of puns,  phrases run together and other techniques to get at the individual  psychological reality underlying each character's reaction to events in the  external world.<br />This is a fantastic novel for any age. Younger readers  who are not familiar with the Guadalcanal campaign might want to learn a  little bit about that campaign and, in particular, the geography of the  island itself (although Jones notes that places like the Dancing Elephant  are fictional in nature).<br />Teachers using this novel might want to also  supplement it with Terrence Malick's film version of the book. I loved the  movie, but thought it was a strange sort of war movie. In retrospect,  having now read &quot;Thin Red Line,&quot; I can see that Malick did an  outstanding job of hewing to the spirit of Jones' work.	2000-04-09
US	50729021	R1WYDYJDXPC8LC	0670879835	54684085	Orbiting the Giant Hairball: A Corporate Fool's Guide to Surviving with Grace	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Earned a place of honor on my desk at the office	No one intentionally sets out to become a cog in the corporate machinery, but many of us eventually come to realize that what we're doing for a living isn't doing much for our lives.<br />Gordon MacKenzie is a welcome  tonic to the toxicity that inevitably comes with being a slave to The Man.  Many of us (yours truly included) dream of winning the lottery or finding  out that Aunt Louise was worth $20 million and she left it all to us when  she died. The truth is, however, that the overwhelming majority of us  aren't going to hit that lucky Lotto number and Aunt Louise is more likely  to leave her fortune to her cats. Instead, we gotta punch a clock day-in,  day-out for decades.<br />What MacKenzie offers is a way to exist in the  corporate jungle without having to sacrifice your soul. He challenges  conventional thinking -- even though he knows that his challenge will  probably die aborning in a workplace where uniformity of thought and  behavior is far more prized than individuality and ingenuity. Still, you  get the sense that this fool on a fool's errand is having a hell of a good  time bouncing off the walls of authority.<br />MacKenzie isn't going to teach  you how to be the top sales performer. He doesn't have seven habits that  will make you wealthy and wise if you follow them. Gordon's gift is far  simpler and far more valuable than all that -- you need never fear the  office again. You can bring creativity and joy to your work. You can strike  a harmonious balance in your work life. And at the end of it all, you'll  have no problem looking at yourself in the mirror each morning.<br />Thanks,  Gordon, for this wonderful book. I know you're orbiting a giant hairball  far, far away now. But I'm also certain you're doing it with grace and  humanity.	2000-03-22
US	50729021	R2YGPNMY0DTEHX	0451199693	840321467	Burnt Bones	Books	2	4	11	N	N	Schlock, but so what, eh?	I read Headhunter years ago, thought it was a pretty taut procedural, then bailed out about halfway through its sequel. This is the first time in probably a decade that I've given a Michael Slade book a try. I can't say  his ouevre has gotten much better with age.<br />I'm sick and tired, for one,  of arch-villains possessed with money out the wazoo to pursue their  diabolical schemes. If you're rich enough to own your own island and  helicopter, you're much too wealthy to waste time being a  psychopath.<br />Slade even glances off this problem in the novel, mentioning  the hokey line of bad guys from the James Bond novels. He glances off a lot  of things, by the way. Sometimes, it's worth the detour, such as the  introduction he provides us to geographical profiling. Sometimes, it's  not.<br />Case in point is the constant babble about Druids. If the Druids  knew so damned much, the Romans never would have conquered Britain and  Ireland, Scotland, England and Wales never would have been converted to  Christianity. Some North Americans seem to have a fetish about being  descended from Scots and Irish, but the sad truth is that Celts never were  very good at civilization building, which requires at a minimum the ability  to gather more than two people in an enclosed space without blood being  shed.<br />See -- he's got me doing it now! Look, the bottom line is that this  is exactly the kind of book you take to the beach and leave behind in the  cottage you rented when you come home. There's enough kinky sex,  meaningless violence and weird side trips to keep your mind engaged, but  not so much that you'll ignore the 16 year-old girls in bikinis walking  past you.	2000-03-21
US	50729021	R31VD9HAELBZ7H	0140440046	295639784	Candide: Or Optimism (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Speaks to the Human Condition in Any Era	Candide is far from being ennervated by time. In fact, it may be more relevant now than at any time since Voltaire wrote it in the  mid-1700s.<br />What happens to Candide, Pangloss and all the other main  characters in the novel is cruelly absurd. Real life itself, as we can all  testify from personal experience, is often just as capricious, nonsensical  and painful as the landscape through which Candide moves.<br />And make no  mistake -- this is a novel of movement: movement about the globe, movement  up and down the social ladder, movement toward utopia and away, movement  toward wisdom hard-won through experience. Voltaire has taken a  common-place 16th Century literary form, the picaresque novel, and breathed  new life into it. His aim is far higher than the genre's typical morality.  In traditional picaresque novels, the hero -- the &quot;picaro&quot; (the  genre is Spanish in origin)-- learns through a series of misadventures his  place in the grand scheme of things, usually on the underbelly of the  society in which he lives.<br />Candide and Company range far and wide through  a myriad of societies, including an Andean utopia, finding no permanent  place. Only when they settle on the Propontus in Turkey and settle down as  a family, not of blood ties, but of mutual suffering and experience, do  they create a space for themselves.<br />The novel's oft-quoted ending, which  has Candide espousing the virtues of tending to one's own garden, is far  more than a call to Protestant simplicity and self-denial. The garden  Candide and his friends cultivate is a poor recreation of the original  garden, the Garden of Eden. But it is theirs, won through misadventure,  pain and suffering. Relentlessly pessimistic throughout the novel about the  natural state of mankind, Voltaire hints at an optimism in the end, the  possibility that the downtrodden can redeem themselves.<br />This is a fun  romp for high school readers and college undergrads will enjoy the overt  sexual references scattered throughout. For their teachers, Candide offers  the opportunity to show their students that we can all persevere and tend  to our own gardens, if we can but recognize the claim of humanity we have  upon each other. Enjoy!	2000-03-16
US	50729021	R2CYL5E5E4TUZG	0609602330	27895627	Isaac's Storm : A Man, a Time, and the Deadliest Hurricane in History	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Progress humbled by Nature	Many historians have pointed out that the sinking of the R.M.S. Titanic in 1912 shocked a Western world that had firmly believed that technological advances could conquer any threat posed by nature. For many Americans,  though, that faith had been shattered 12 years earlier when one of the  strongest hurricanes ever recorded literally wiped Galveston, Texas, off  the map.<br />Larson's story focuses on how that turn-of-the-century faith in  the works of mankind proved deadly to thousands of people. Isaac Cline, the  head of the federal weather bureau in Galveston at the time of the  hurricane, is the fulcrum that illustrates Larson's thesis. Isaac the  meteorologist is a consummate professional -- an excellent scientist, a  medical doctor, a faithful and trustworthy administrator.<br />The Galveston  hurricane stripped much of value from Isaac -- his wife, his brother, his  home, his neighbors and friends. It left him grasping for nearly half a  century to come to terms with what he must have secretly viewed as his own  failure to predict the arrival of the storm and its severity in time to  warn the city's residents to flee for their lives.<br />Isaac lived on to  serve as a meteorologist in New Orleans, a posting he detested, for four  decades after the hurricane. But Larson gives us tantalizing clues about  Isaac's internal agony and his turn away from the naive certainty fostered  by the technological triumphalism in which he was immersed during his  training. He wears his dead wife's engagement ring on his pinkie for the  rest of his life. He never remarries. He finds solace in the arts and  crafts.<br />Larson's spare writing style suits the pace of events. The book  meanders at first, drifting from subject to subject as it gathers narrative  strength. When the storm breaks over Galveston, Larson's narrative whips  through the sequence of events, a sudden and sharp catastrophe that lasted  only a few hours. You will rarely see a writer do such an outstanding job  of matching the pace of his or her narrative to the actual pace of the  events he or she is writing about. There's an almost musical sensibility to  Larson's writing.<br />Ultimately, Isaac Cline is a metaphor for a whole  mindset swept away by the tidal surge that leveled Galveston. Larson  certainly does not ennoble Isaac or make him a hero. But he does treat  Isaac with admirable equanimity and sympathy. Isaac Cline wasn't the only  survivor of the Galveston hurricane who had to carry the weight of its  remembrance for the rest of his life. But he, more than most, surely must  have felt the burden of grief and guilt every moment for the rest of a long  and distinguished life.	2000-03-03
US	50729021	R3UIZWXEMCCJI9	0080374379	329455826	The Forgotten Soldier: The Classic WWII Autobiography (Brassey's Commemorative Series WWII)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Rivals Remarque and James Jones	I first read Guy Sajer's remarkable autobiography as a teenager. I have continued to re-read it every two or three years during the past two decades.<br />I cannot offer enough praise for Sajer's ability to convey the  emotional horror of the battlefield. This book chronicles the destruction  of a child's soul over three years of combat.<br />Not everything in Sajer's  world view is admirable, at least from an American point of view. He waxes  nostalgic at times about the comraderie of the foxhole in distinctly  Hitlerian terms and the speeches he places in the mouth of the one officer  who earns his respect and admiration are outright Nazi drivel.<br />That  caveat aside, this is a book well worth reading and well worth assigning  teenage and young adult students to read. Sajer's naive, romantic heart at  16 is blasted and shriveled by war before he turns 20. His story may  resonate with kids who otherwise would take no interest in war  stories.<br />And why should they read war stories? So they know the stakes  involved when important matters of state are settled on a battlefield with  the blood of young men and women. Guy Sajer offers eloquent insight into  the abyss into which combat hurls the soul and the mind. His is an  important, supremely humane, voice.	2000-02-10
US	50729021	R3EU45MJZY3VSO	0451407555	236499602	Death Sentence: The True Story of Velma Barfield's Life, Crimes, and Punishment	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Tobacco Road noir	This engrossing account of Margie Velma Barfield is unusual in the areas it highlights -- the emotional horror that the family and friends of the murderer and her victims experience; the chilling process of deliberately  taking a human life via an artifically contrived legal system; the  questionable truth of the condemned's redemption. Not many true-crime books  focus on these aspects of a capital case and Bledsoe does a fantastic job  of presenting a very nuanced account of the Barfield case.<br />Barfield's  guilt was established without a shadow of a doubt very early in the  investigation of the death of her lover, Stuart Taylor. Since there's  obviously no drama inherent in an open and shut case of this nature, most  true crime accounts would immediately shift focus to the question of what  drove the murderer to commit his or her crimes.<br />Bledsoe spares us the  usual arm-chair psychology. Instead, he carefully explains the tortuous  appeals process and the politics underlying the literally life-and-death  decisions that lie at the end of that process. I am a proponent of the  death penalty, but I am also firmly convinced that the state owes those  people accused of a capital crime an adequate defense. Otherwise, the death  penalty becomes an arbitrary punishment imposed on defendants who lack the  financial resources to pay for competent legal representation.<br />Margie  Velma Barfield was unquestionably guilty of the crime which led to her  execution at Central Prison in Raleigh. She is also unquestionably guilty  of destroying the lives of everyone around her. And I believe she was  unquestionably sane enough to know that what she was doing was  wrong.<br />What remains in question, however, is whether the State of North  Carolina, in its zeal to punish her, adequately guarded her constitutional  rights. Bledsoe does an outstanding job of raising precisely this issue and  has the good grace to let us decide for ourselves.<br />Jerry Bledsoe is  probablyone of the best true crime writers in the United States. His work  is always well-crafted. This book, while lacking some of the powerful  narrative of his other work, is an important read for those of us who want  to make sure the death penalty does not degenerate into state-sponsored  vengeance disguised as justice.	2000-02-07
US	50729021	R3GFARN2CBHVVL	0451406818	298476833	Gotti: Rise and Fall	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Workman-like account	In a town where the headlines in popular newspapers run to breathlessly silly extremes (&quot;Headless body found in topless bar!&quot;), Capeci and Mustain do a workman-like job of piecing together John Gotti's  disastrous reign as head of the Gambino crime family.<br />The book is a good  example of old-fashioned journalism -- and I mean that in the most  complimentary of terms. Capeci and Mustain obviously spent a lot of time  and shoe leather talking to sources on both sides of the law to cobble  together their narrative.<br />Sammy &quot;The Bull&quot; Gravano comes off as  a tragic character of almost Shakespearean proportions -- far smarter, far  deadlier, far more committed to the life than his boss. By comparison, John  Gotti himself comes across as mean, stupid and loutish. How much truth  there is to those characterizations is debatable.<br />There are some  irritating aspects to Capeci and Mustain's writing style, especially their  unfortunate tendency to descend into stereotypical portrayals of the  Gambino family members mentioned in the book (&quot;Minchia!&quot;).<br />On  the whole, though, this is a nice, quick read on a dark, dreary winter's  Sunday, which is exactly the use I put it to. Badda-bing, badda-boom....	2000-01-30
US	50729021	R2UMBFF4PIMBWL	0451524659	887884219	AN American Tragedy (Signet Classics)	Books	5	19	24	N	N	Deserves to be called a masterpiece	This is an outstanding example of naturalism, the novelistic examination of real, everyday life through authentic detail. &quot;An American Tragedy&quot; offers a vast portrait of American life during the first  decade of the 20th Century.<br />The title Dreiser gave this novel is ironic  in that none of the characters is truly tragic. Clyde Griffiths is a case  in point -- pathetic, passive, shallow and so irresolute that he cannot  even carry out premeditated murder without being left to wonder afterwards  whether he really meant to complete his plan or not. Clyde doesn't ever  achieve any significant degree of self-knowledge and is certainly not  ennobled by the pain he inflicts on all those around him and  himself.<br />&quot;An American Tragedy&quot; neatly inverts the  quintessential American optimism that fuels our continued fascination with  bettering ourselves materially and our smug belief that wealth equates to  moral virtue. Clyde's own moral framework, admittedly shaky from the start,  is undermined by his attempts to improve his lot in life. Ironically, this  deterioration makes it possible for him to gain entry into the vapid world  of the wealthy in the small city where he lives and works.<br />Dreiser is not  a particularly good writer. His sentences can be clunky, truncated and  fragmented. His language is stilted and awkward at times. He has no ear for  writing dialogue.<br />But these technical limitations are more than offset by  Dreiser's incredible insight into the interior lives of his characters.  They are, almost all, flawed in decidedly pedestrian, untragic ways. But  their petty struggles -- for wealth, for political favor, for survival --  at least show people grasping at a larger prize that remains just out of  reach. We may not approve of their actions, but Dreiser does treat his  characters with compassion and their struggles do achieve a quiet dignity  even in abject defeat.<br />For this reason alone, &quot;An American  Tragedy&quot; deserves to be called a masterpiece. This particular edition  has a very good essay written by Irving Howe as an afterword and I  encourage readers to read it after they have finished the novel  itself.<br />&quot;An American Tragedy&quot; is long, which may deter college  instructors from using it in lower level undergraduate English courses. I  would, however, highly recommend it for use in upper level undergraduate  and graduate courses. It is also a fantastic resource for American history  and culture studies. Sociologists might want to consider using it, as well,  with graduate students to show them how careful sociological research and  insight can be transformed into moving, graceful fiction.	2000-01-26
US	50729021	RERQECZQIXBFY	0300078129	35904091	1: The Road to Stalingrad: Stalin`s War with Germany, Volume One	Books	4	17	19	N	N	Great overview of the death and resurrection of the Red Army	This is an outstanding account of the first year of the Russo-German war in general and the near destruction and triumphant regeneration of the Red Army in particular.<br />Most of the well-known work on this main theater of  World War II leans toward using German sources. This is understandable in  light of the difficulties involved in gaining access to Russian war records  prior to 1989. I was staggered by Erickson's ability to get as much as he  did from the Soviet archives and surviving commanders.<br />An earlier review  of this book noted that it is not for newcomers to the study of the Great  Patriotic War. I fully agree. I was, like the earlier reviewer, very  puzzled by the abscence of maps in the book. Unless you know the general  outlines of the Barbarossa campaign, the winter campaign before Moscow and  the German summer campaigns that led to Stalingrad in 1942, you will get  bogged down rather quickly.<br />This is an indispensible reference work on  the Russo-German War. And in a paperback edition, it's a very good buy.	2000-01-20
US	50729021	R31C6QJ393CHS2	067166736X	885790086	Man's Search for Meaning	Books	5	592	630	N	N	This book could change your life	Dr. Frankl's logotherapy is straightforward and easy to understand. It is also a useful antidote to the rather frightening drift in psychology during the past two decades toward strict biological determinism.<br />This  particular work is one I keep at hand and re-read on a regular basis. I  read it for the first time a few months after I started medical treatment  and therapy for life-long depression. I get more from it each time I go  back to it.<br />Logotherapy manages an incredible balance. It does not put  man himself at the center of the universe, thus avoiding the kind of  narcissistic self-reflection common to much of the therapeutic literature  today. Yet, it does not sweep man aside as irrelevant. Instead, Frankl  argues that we have an incredible power to shape our attitudes and  responses to the challenges life presents us and that we inevitably grow  thanks to these challenges.<br />This is a quick read and could conceivably  change your life. Man is more than the sum of his biology and his  environment. We inevitably choose to be who we are. Frankl's argument is  that, if we choose wisely, we can triumph even in tragedy. It's a truth  many of us have lost sight of in our cynicism.	2000-01-09
US	50729021	R3EIMJJ8NPHT1A	0609602357	868561953	The Night Inspector	Books	1	17	24	N	N	Insufficiently realized	Frederick Busch or his publisher should have had enough sense to stop the presses and put this mess through a major re-write. Choosing the flaws to catalogue in the product that did hit the shelves can be a time-consuming  task.<br />First, the plot is thread-bare at best and verges on outright  cartoonish at its climax. Busch can't even get his details straight,  putting his main character in the Old Brewery nearly 15 years after it was  demolished. This wouldn't be a damning fault in and of itself. There are  plenty of first-rate novels that eschew good, tight plotting for other  aspects: characterization, narrative, etc.<br />The problem is that Busch  can't seem to dredge up any sustained interest in these other qualities.  The novel's hero doesn't elicit sympathy, understanding, compassion or even  much interest from the reader. William Bartholomew should have been an  almost Satanic (in Miltonian terms) brooding presence -- a living symbol of  how war scars the soul. Instead, we get an Elephant Man who's pretty handy  with firearms.<br />We're supposed to see the world through Billy's mask (this  is a convention of Melville's fiction), yet he doesn't seem to understand  much of this world. Billy is supposed to be a mercantile genius, yet cannot  judge character soundly enough to recognize that the mulatto whore he loves  is using him. He never seems capable of understanding what lies in the  hearts of the men who befriend him.<br />Poor Herman Melville's reputation  undergoes a severe thrashing at Busch's hands, dissolving into a drunk who  addresses everyone as &quot;shipmate.&quot; Why Busch did not take the  obvious final step and grace Melville with a peg leg and a parrot wired to  his shoulder is one of the novel's central mysteries.<br />The most  infuriating flaw in this novel is that Busch has a very pronounced genius  for dialogue, both external and internal. Yet, he insists on chopping those  dialogues into indecipherable bits via constant jumps in time and  perspective.<br />I was very disappointed in &quot;The Night Inspector&quot;  because there are flashes of genuine profundity and lyric beauty salted  throughout the novel. But there's also too much authorial excess to make it  truly worth anyone's while to read this book.<br />Pray that Frederick Busch  tries another novel in this genre, this time on a shorter editorial leash.  Under such constraints, he might actually produce the masterpiece that  slips through his fingers here.	2000-01-02
US	50729021	R96USFXV2XSKP	0465020003	614141899	The End Of Utopia: Politics And Culture In An Age Of Apathy	Books	5	21	23	N	N	A cogent, incisive analysis of left/liberal exhaustion	This book should be on your short list of &quot;must-read&quot; material.<br />Russell Jacoby's willingness to think critically and his trust that his audience is willing to do the same inevitably result in the finest  cultural and intellectual criticism available in the United States.<br />This  book is no exception and is an important read for anyone who wonders if  there's a better way available to our society. Before we can answer that  question, the dead wood of the last century must be cleared away.<br />Jacoby  does so by pointing out how thoroughly enervated left/liberal political and  social thought has become. Jacoby's conclusion is frightening in its  implications -- leftists and liberals have essentially given up on the  complex task of forging a new, better future for all.<br />In place of that  utopian impulse, leftists and liberals have substituted cynicism, academic  careerism and outright moral defeat. No longer certain that they can change  the world, they seem intent on obscuring their total surrender to the  existing sociopolitical milieu.<br />Jacoby's book is brief, but does a great  job of documenting this shift in liberal/leftist thought from ardent desire  to improve society to abject acceptance of what exists. Western societies  need people who are willing to think on a grand scale about how the lives  of people living in those societies can be improved. What the liberal/left  now offers is an incoherent insistence that nothing can be improved, that  all is simply rhetorical strategies designed to perpetuate systems of  dominance and subjugation.<br />The society that is currently emerging from  the turmoil of technological ferment desperately needs moral, political and  intellectual leadership informed by a vision of a better future. In its  current incarnation, left/liberal thought is incapable of providing that  vision.<br />The frightening thing is that this tradition is probably the only  one capable of conceiving and implementing social change that would make  the new technology serve us rather than the other way around. Jacoby's book  is a tough-minded call to arms for those of us who aren't ready to give up  on humanity and don't believe that the market place is a mechanism that  necessarily best adjudicates complex social interactions and promotes the  values of a humane society -- equality, justice, peace and prosperity.	2000-01-01
US	50729021	R1I26OZ1ML3VL7	0816031630	655455074	Shipwrecks: An Encyclopedia of the World's Worst Disasters at Sea	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Nice reference work, but uneven	David Ritchie has produced a good basic reference work on shipwrecks throughout the world.<br />It is a bit uneven in concentrating on New England, the Outer Banks, the Great Lakes, the Columbia River bar and the Caribbean.  Other areas of the world, by comparison, receive relatively short  shrift.<br />I was particularly puzzled why Ritchie left out some shipwrecks  that were very well-documented and dramatic. The one that immediately comes  to mind is the burning of the immigrant steamer Volturno in the  mid-Atlantic in 1913. Hundreds of the ship's passengers were rescued thanks  to the bravery of the ship's captain and crew and those of the rescue ships  that steamed to the scene.<br />I also would highly recommend that in  subsequent editions, Ritchie consider a detailed entry on the Derbyshire, a  mammoth freighter that disappeared during a typhoon in the South China Sea  in the 1980s. The recent discovery of the ship in water nearly two and a  half miles deep helped solve a mystery, bring closure to a horrible loss  for the crew's families and offered engineering lessons that may well save  the lives of hundreds of seamen in the years ahead.<br />If you want good  narrative (and aren't too finicky about accuracy of detail), try to obtain  a copy of Jay Robert Nash's book on disasters. (Hint to a publisher: This  one urgently needs to be dusted off, updated and republished, as do Dwight  Boyer's works) Until that happens, Ritchie's book will do yeoman service in  your reference collection.	2000-01-01
US	50729021	R2CW0B2CGGFEIO	0140445471	392013933	The Confidence-Man: His Masquerade (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	21	24	N	N	Melville and his Masques	Set aboard a Mississippi side-wheel steamer in the 1850s, Melville's novel charts the progress of the American character at a time when the old frontier was giving way, albeit slowly, to a new, urban  frontier.<br />&quot;The Confidence-Man&quot; works at so many different  levels that it is no wonder Melville's readers weren't quite sure what to  make of his ninth novel. It is a call-and-response of idealism suborned for  the purposes of sheer humbuggery, material theft and moral sophistry.<br />I  think readers would do well to always keep the word &quot;confidence&quot;  in mind as they read the novel; it recurs time and again in different  contexts throughout the book. Melville's purpose is to highlight the rift  between what things seem to be and what they truly are. It is eerily  existential in tone and readers familiar with Kierkegaard and Camus will be  delighted by Melville's keen appreciation for the absurdity of the human  condition.<br />The wretched reception of &quot;The Confidence-Man&quot;  undermined what little was left of Melville's own self-confidence as a  writer whose work could support his family. In one sense, this was a  grievous shame, because Melville lived for nearly four more decades and,  presumably, could have spent that time producing more great literature had  his contemporaries simply recognized the intellectual genius of his  work.<br />In another sense, though, &quot;The Confidence-Man&quot; is a  fitting send-off to a literary career hobbled by critical inattention and  plain bad luck. Melville's America is not an America where dreams come true  (note how China Aster is destroyed by his) and where confidence -- optimism  -- is rewarded or even warranted. Yet, it is an America recognizably closer  to the one we live in than those crafted by Melville's contemporaries --  Emerson, Thoreau, Irving.<br />&quot;The Confidence-Man&quot; is a very  complex novel of ideas. This particular edition is very useful because it  provides fairlythorough annotation throughout the book. I would highly  recommend it for use in a graduate course on American intellectual history,  particularly juxtaposed against Emerson and Tocqueville's analyses of  American society and culture.	1999-11-26
