US	50720428	R2UDF3K3Z1N86B	0786928883	922575833	Ultimate Alien Anthology (Star Wars Roleplaying Game)	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Kel Dors, Kushibans, and Falleens...Oh, my!	So far I have just about every release of the new D20 based Star Wars role playing game from Wizards of the Coast (with the exception of the GM screen and character sheets, that is.)- I figured since it was such a welcome departure from the lousy and unheroic WEG game engine that it deserved my attention. And being a complete salivating Star Wars fanatic didn't hurt either. Now, Wizards obviously has a different publishing philosophy than West End Games does, and that's a shame. WEG had excellent source material- I always use it when designing the current campaign that I'm working on, because for the most part Wizards doesn't publish all that many books on places (Core Worlds book nothwithstanding) and things (planets, people, weapons, source books from the novels, etc.), instead the focus on guides for making characters and places, rather than provide them directly in published works.<br /> This is a double edged sword, because given that Wizards now owns (as far as I know), all of the WEG material, it would be nice if they started releasing it after converting it to the D20 rules. Enter the Ultimate Alien Anthology- a send up to the Alien Anthology published in 2001 and gave only a handful of aliens. The Ultimate book provides almost 200 different species that PCs and GMs can use for characters. I have seen many science fiction RPGs where they only provide you have a half-dozen races to play, providing 200 seemed like a gift from the Force, and the authors really did their homework by providing aliens from not only the movies, but also the books and previous WEG publications. Each entry is laid out clearly and includes notes on personality types, physical description, homeworld, sample names, life span, favored classes, special abilities- like darkvision, species traits pluses or minuses to Strength, Dexterity, etc. and a sample species commoner type. Each grouping of races also has a height chart with very well done illustrations of each alien. The book offers such a diverse selection of aliens that it should provide even the finickiest role player enough of a choice to find something he or she likes.<br />There are some powers and abilities that should be examined carefully before handing them over to a PC, but for the most part the book is quite well balanced between the races. Star Wars has such a massive amount of creatures in it that a book like this was needed and my only complaint is that they left out non-sentient creatures. That is, all the monsters present in the first anthology are gone, more importantly, they got rid of the Hoojibs! Star Wars without Hoojibs is like a day without air! Seriously, I suspect Wizards will publish a Star Wars bestiary or monster manual that will include rancors, Corelian sand panthers, mynocks, gundarks and space slugs. For now the older Anthology will have to do for `monsters'. For the most part, though, the Ultimate Alien Anthology is probably the best source book Wizards has done for Star Wars to date- but I do want more books with a lot more substance than we have been getting.	2003-09-20
US	50720428	R3LUUD5JO9FPD6	0786927771	904057278	The New Jedi Order Sourcebook (Star Wars Roleplaying Game)	Books	3	11	14	N	N	Too small of a book to cover too large of a series- 3½ stars	The New Jedi Order has had, like it or hate it, a staggering effect on Star Wars and the Expanded Universe as a whole. Much loved characters have died while the galaxy far, far away has been turned upside down by the extra-galactic invaders known as the Yuuzhan Vong. Much as the Star Wars novel line has been passed from Bantam to Del Rey, so has the role playing game transferred from the now-deceased West End Games to Wizards of the Coast, (No surprise, really. Hasbro Toys owns Wizards and Lucas owns a big chunk of Hasbro). I never liked WEG's D6 take on Star Wars- I always found the 'Bucket-O-Dice' game system pretty unheroic and inflexible. On the other hand, I much prefer D20- it works quite well in the Star Wars milieu largely because it was developed for Dungeons & Dragons, which is super heroic adventuring and that suits Star Wars to a T.<br /> However, regardless of what I thought of the WEG game mechanics, their source material was always first rate (kinda like Shadowrun- lousy game system, great source books), especially the source books released for the various novels and comics, such as the Thrawn Trilogy, Dark Empire, or the Tales of the Jedi Companion. Conversely, Wizards of the Coast seems to have a different philosophy regarding their Star Wars source books. On the one hand, Truce at Bakura was a single book that got its own hard cover from WEG, meanwhile Wizard's gives us one hard cover that encompasses nine books of the New Jedi Order. While it may not have been feasible to do nine books, it does seem a lot of information to distill down into one 160 page book. Plus the West End Games material the had the benefit of being written, in many cases, by authors who wrote the initial novels, often adding more detail and background. A huge bonus considering that many of these books were also bought by people who didn't play the game at all.<br /> Basically, the New Jedi Order Source Book breaks down the nine books, (Vector Prime, Onslaught, Ruin, Hero's Trial, Jedi Eclipse, Balance Point, Conquest, Rebirth and Star by Star) in chapters that includes new characters, planets, vehicles and equipment. The first part of the book details the Yuuzhan Vong, their religion, and the vast majority of their personal gear. Each chapter also includes a small star map to show the current progress of the Vong's invasion route. Also included are some adventure hooks to get a player group into the action. Plus a few minor (and very poor quality) maps- something I have already had a talk with Dan Wallace about. The book does give an excellent overview of the series, but lacks any real meat and could have benefitted from input from the authors to flesh out places, events, and characters.<br /> I also want to spend some time talking about the art that appears through out the book. It goes beyond just being bad or even terrible- it's putrid. It certainly doesn't feel like it belongs in a Star Wars book- of any kind. It seems better suited to a Vampire: the Masquerade or just about anything else by White Wolf. The only good images are by RK Post (Essential Guide to Alien Species), and even his picture of the voxyn Jedi Hunter is messed up, because when he first drew it, he thought it only had four legs instead of six so he had to go back and touch up the image. For the most part, though, the graphics and picture are on the lousy-side of awful.<br /> On the whole, though, I like the source book- the stats for the Yuuzhan Vong are great and I suppose if I had worked at it I could have done it all myself, but with this it means I don't have to. It appears though that Wizards will continue the trend of publishing one book that covers large amounts of information like the Rebellion Era source book, Coruscant and the Core Worlds- Coruscant deserves it's own book, not 16 or so pages in a book with other worlds. I'll be interested to see if WotC will release a second NJO book that covers the last half of the series or simply double the size of theexisting book and simply add new information.	2003-08-12
US	50720428	R1D3BKTJZ10K76	0789727455	428039835	Upgrading and Repairing PCs (14th Edition)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A must have for anyone who is more than a casual user	I've been into computers for twenty years now, and from the early days of my Commodore 64s and TI-99 4/As I've always tried to know what's happening on the inside as on the outside. I started building PCs after I bought my first in 1993- that one I didn't take apart until I had paid off the loan I had taken out to buy it. Since then, however, I've always tried to understand the hardware which has been in a constant state of innovation since day one. And Scott's books have been an indispensable part of that process. Between a friend and I, we have probably six copies of the various editions of `Upgrading and Repairing PCs', ironically, they also come with this book and can be found on the DVD-ROM in PDF format.<br />What's nice about it is Scott writes like he's actually talking to you- his text is clear, easy to read and not at all wordy while still conveying the information he wants to bring. Anyone who is more than a casual PC user will find this book ideal for learning or understanding why PCs do what they do and what all the various components do when they talk to each other. On the other hand, not everyone needs to know the pin-out configuration for a Socket 423 Pentium 4 CPU- I don't, but it's nice to have. Mr. Mueller takes us through the history of computers and PCs, then the tome takes off- broken down into categories from motherboards and busses, then into the various components like sound cards, video cards, hard drives (IDE and SCSI), network cards, USB, Fire Wire and ports, modems- you name, he covers it in tremendous detail. One of the handiest sections is on RAM and all the different types from SIPS, DIMMS, SIMMS, and DDR types, Scott covers it all, explaining it in easy to understand terms while providing comprehensive coverage for more advanced users.<br />It the DVD alos has 2 hours of video in which he gives a great over view of what's covered in the book, with segments laid out like chapters. As a reference guide to answer question that users might have, enabling them to identify and understand what they've got in their machine, this is the book. The downside for us and the upside for Scott, is you almost need to buy one every year to keep current, but as I said, I do like the idea of putting old issues on DVD so they can be referenced as well. For the advanced user, it's essential and required reference.	2003-06-12
US	50720428	R3FDURPHJV0H42	0345449002	656582842	The New Essential Guide to Characters (Star Wars)	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Hits away! They did it again!	I have known about this book for just over a year now, and despite it just being one on characters, Star Wars fans I know who hang out in the TF.N literature forums have been really excited about it. First, it's been seven years since the last Essential Guide to characters and a small part of me was hoping it would be twice as thick as the old one as if they were going update all the old characters then add in the new ones. Sadly, this was not to be the case. <br />While all major characters got huge updates that brought them up Troy Denning's Star by Star, it adds to the list with a bunch of Expanded Universe characters. Sadly, two of my favorites, Nomi Sunrider and Tionne Solusar, have been removed. Don't get me wrong, this is a great book, Dan Wallace really outdid himself with the breadth of his research and Michael Sutfin's beautiful color art is, well, nothing short of spectacular. Plus characters that we know little about, like Darth Bane who started the new Sith, has his own bio as does Shira Brie- the original red haired, green eyed Emperor's Hand from Marvel Comics, circa 1982. The updates are wonderful, because a lot of people may not have read all of the Expanded Universe novels for one reason or another, so it's nice to get up to date histories to fill in the blanks.<br />All of the important move characters are here- from Anakin Skywalker to Zam Wessel, from Chewbacca to Luke Skywalker, the latter of which gets the single largest entry. However, I must question the logic of sacrificing pages for minor characters like Owen and Beru Lars, Lobot, and Nien Nunb- yes, they were in the films, but who cares? They're minor characters at best when their pages could have been used to include more characters from the Tales of the Jedi series of comics, or the current Star Wars Ongoing series. I mean really, do we need pages devoted to Captain Obvious himself, Ric Olie? Not likely. Despite a few questionable choices for characters, the New Essential Guide is stilla first rate publication.<br />Michael Sutfin's art is truly wonderful in most cases. There are a few illustrations where it seems a little flat or an unconvincing representation, such as Anakin Solo's picture- Sutfin made him too young looking. I didn't care for Dash Render, Isaard or Daala's pictures much, but that's peanuts compared to the other really great pictures in the book. Wallace's text is clear, concise and a breeze to read. He said he had a blast writing it and I only wish I had been able to come through for him and find a copy of the Japanese version that he wanted before LFL did.<br />The first of the New Essential Guides, it's completely in color and if the rumors I have heard are true, the following books will also be in the same format and Del Rey plans to release a book or so a year until they are all up to date. Given these books such great sources of data, well written and researched, bringing them up to date with the current films, novels and the New Jedi Order seems to be about the wisest decision they can make.	2002-07-21
US	50720428	R3TKY9L9S1CC3T	0060392452	194848581	Stupid White Men ...And Other Sorry Excuses for the State of the Nation!	Books	5	14	25	N	N	Go, Mike, Go!!	It never ceases to amaze that, no matter how conservative the news media gets, there is always someone out there decrying the liberal media and its heinous shortcomings for reporting the news. Don't believe me when I say the media is conservative? Then revealing that Fox News is run by a cousin of Dubya should make no difference at all. And this is where Michael Moore comes in. With each page of his new book, `Stupid White Men', I found something that I already knew or something new that I didn't and found my rage made articulate by Moore's humor and gift for words. This could be a companion book for Al Franken's `Rush Limbaugh is a Big Fat Idiot', though Moore doesn't waste any time ... on his complete debasement of facts.<br />`Stupid White Men' is an account, not only of [George Bush's] rigging and theft of the 2000 elections, again, something I already knew, but also the horrendous policies and laws that spewed forth from Republicans like vomit into the faces of the American people, now so terrified they will undoubtedly welcome the new TIPS informant system that will enable families and friends to rat each other out as terrorists. How McCarthy-istic! How like Nazi Germany! But Moore's tongue and cheek approach makes `Stupid White Men' imminently enjoyable, a satire laden with facts and information, some which I already had verified before reading them here.<br />And what he points out in simple, no-nonsense terms is that; we as a nation are in big trouble.<br />I [dislike] Republicans; they're evil ....  Democrats, he illustrates by listing all of these so-called liberals and the percentages by which they voted in Republican polices, have sold us all out and are nothing more than the second Republican party. He also doesn't fret to point out those Republicans who voted against some of [George Bush's]policies, such as drilling for oil in Alaska to sell to Japan. The myth that the Democrats fought for the little guy has been dead for a long time, `Stupid White Men' simply knocks the last few nails into the coffin.<br />His chapter entitled `Kill Whitey' is highly amusing, while at the same time provocative as he recounts that every lousy thing that people have done to him in his life, has been done by white people. And yet the so-called liberal media (sicker) demonizes blacks as if they are the sole cause of the nation's ills, when it's pretty clear to anyone who doesn't read Rush Limbaugh or listen to Pat Buchanon, that this is clearly not the case. `Idiot Nation' is his look at the out-right attack Republicans and everyone else are making on the nations schools. They slash funding, gut libraries and pay teachers nothing then have the audacity to wonder why our schools are so lousy. Then use it as an excuse to want to privatize them or use their state as an excuse for their voucher program for religious schools. Because they know they can't cram religion down our throats in public schools, because that darn old Constitution keeps getting in the way.<br />I didn't really care for his section on world problems, like the Middle East or Ireland. Yes, what is he said right, but his little letter to Arafat about passive resistance and civil disobedience just didn't seem appropriate given the seriousness of the situation. However, I suspect Mike was succumbing to the frustration we all feel whenever a suicide bomber blows up a night club in Tel Aviv or Israely soldiers gun down a bunch of students throwing rocks, and the helplessness that comes with both. Neither the Right nor the Left have answer for this one, I'm afraid. About the only thing we can all agree upon is that is has to stop. Soon.<br />There is more, but I can't help myself from turning this review into a rant or my own soap box (surely not! ed.) So the only real option is to buy it and read it for yourself. From what I have heard, it keeps selling so fast that it's already in its 19th printing. ... Maybe Mike's right- maybe we need to boot these `Stupid White Men'out of power, because what they're doing just ain't working.	2002-07-21
US	50720428	R29HFFD5SRILID	0440508649	11758110	Rush Limbaugh Is a Big Fat Idiot: And Other Observations	Books	4	39	62	N	N	Hilarious, and more than a grain of truth in there	...<br />I really don't know what the conservatives who have read this book are complaining about; calling this book thinly veiled hatred attack on Limbaugh and Republicans. Franken doesn't veil his hatred, it's right out there in open for everyone to laugh at and enjoy. I mean, anyone with a modicum of intelligence who has spent any time at all listening to Limbaugh's view of things know full well that he is exactly what Franken says he is. It takes next to no effort to check out FAIR's website and a few other sources to cross check and verify that most of what Limbaugh states is nothing more than hot air spewed forth in an attempt to obfuscate what's really going on.<br />While I admit that Franken spends a little too much time on things like Limbaugh's weight and choice of neckties, the rest of it is merely a series of humorous essays where he takes Limbaugh to task on a lot of things he has said, and proves them to be wildly inaccurate or outright fabrications. But he doesn't stop there. Franken happily points out that Republicans like Limbaugh, Gingich, Dick Armey, Phil Gramm (student deferment), Pat Buchanan (he had a bad knee), etc. who seem to have no trouble referring to Viet Nam and accusing Clinton of being draft dodger, when they themselves also found very creative ways to avoid not going themselves. Funniest of all we learn that Limbaugh, who touts Reagan as the greatest president nation has ever seen, never actually voted for him. Rush never registered to vote until he was 35.<br />He illustrates the reason why Limbaugh rarely gives interviews. It's easy for Limbaugh to sit in front of his mostly white audience and slander people or better still, behind his microphone in a radio studio and attack so-called `liberal compassion fascists', because no one is around to call him on anything. He is apparently notoriously thin skinned and incapable of defending himself against questions about his behavior as rivers of sweat flow of his corpulent body. But he doesn't stop there. New Gingich is another favorite target of Franken's...<br />Franken completely sinks Limbaugh's claims of how great Reagan was for this country. Limbaugh likes to deny the explosive debt Reagan racked up in his eight years, as if two-trillion dollars was chump change. He undercuts Limbaugh's own fact-less explanation of how Reagan's tax cuts really benefitted the poor. But since they didn't, Limbaugh had to play with the numbers on his charts to make it look as though the poorest of the poor got huge tax cuts while the rich got hosed...<br />Franken's wit, however, is off-set slightly by the jumbled nature of the book. It seems unevenly edited as he jumps back and forth between topics and chapters. But that doesn't detract much from his brilliant (if phony) conversations with Limbaugh's `fact checker', Waylan, a job I'd love to have since it apparently doesn't involve much of anything. If things like `Styrofoam is biodegradable and paper isn't' or `There is more acreage of trees now then there was when Columbus arrived' can get through, what exactly is the fact checker doing...<br />But don't take Al Franken's word for it, don't take mine, either. Buy Limbaugh's book, `The Way Things Ought to Be', then go to your local library and government web sites or their published books of statistics and check things out for yourself. `Rush Limbaugh is a Big Fat Idiot and Other Observations' is in my mind the best compromise for a title, since calling it `Rush Limbaugh is a Big Fat Liar and So Are All of His Republican Heroes' would have been too cumbersome. I enjoyed this book immensely, though I feel Franken really does believe that the Democrats will save us, and we all know that just ain't true, either.	2002-07-21
US	50720428	RT15FHJHY915K	0553574132	967938127	Shadows of the Empire (Star Wars)	Books	4	1	4	N	N	4½ Stars - Lots of Fun	Shadows of the Empire for me has been a six year journey. It seemed that it caused quite a stir upon its release, but for some reason I stayed away from it. It had as many detractors as it had proponents. With more time on my hands now, I finally grabbed a copy for myself and decided to see what all the fuss was about. I needn't have worried, it's a great read. But was pleasantly surprised that the book isn't really about the heroes, but instead focuses more on the rivalry between Lord Darth Vader and the leader of the galaxy's largest and most powerful crime syndicate leader, Prince Xizor. Perry does an excellent job balancing the action between the two villains and the other characters.<br />Set just before the action in Return of the Jedi. Shadows of the Empire is a highly enjoyable read. Prince Xizor is a Falleen, a race of highly evolved humanoid reptiles whose family was destroyed when a virus, created on his homeworld by the Empire, got out of control causing Vader to order an entire city affected by it destroyed. Years later Xizor has concocted a scheme whereby he will kill Luke Skywalker, denying Emperor Palpatine his prize and causing Darth Vader serious loss of face in the Emperor's eyes. While Xizor's motivations are typical for the genre and somewhat weak, his machinations in engineering Vader's downfall are exceptionally well thought out, as is Xizor's personality and background.<br />Luke Skywalker, his yet as unknown sister Princess Leia and Lando Calrissian are hot on the tail of bounty hunter Boba Fett who they believe is still in possession of Han Solo frozen in carbonite. Once they locate Fett, they plan to simply take Han from him. To help them in their quest they have hired Dash Render- an expert pilot and smuggler that reminds them of Han Solo with his arrogance and self-assured nature. Dash is simply there as a foil- to play off Leia and Luke while making the reader wish Han Solo was back. His character is purposely two-dimensional and even Lando gets more to do and has more depth. However, the dymanic between Luke and Dash is very interesting. While Luke normally looks up to Han, here he finds Dash's arrogance and superiority grating.<br />After several attempts on Luke's life, Vader slowly learns what Xizor is up to, but is constantly frustrated as he is one-upped by the Dark Prince as he attempts to curry favor with the Emperor. By providing the location of a secret Rebel base. In truth the asteroid-based ship yard is not a Rebel stronghold, but a competitor that Xizor uses the Imperials to eliminate. Darth Vader's own thoughts are very interesting. His own plans of turning Luke the Dark Side and destroying the Emperor are tainted by conflicting emotions of love that he does not understand. There are also interesting scenes with Vader using the Dark Side to sustain himself outside of his life-supporting armor in preparation for the day when he will no longer need it.<br />Perry has near complete control over the characters, which he understands very well. Luke's progress through out the book is a wonderful stepping stone between the Empire Strikes Back to Return of the Jedi- his power in the Force is growing, as is his confidence. Luke is never out of character; always likeable, he is at a crossroads between farm boy and the serious young Jedi in the last film. Perry understands the Force as so well that the reader is convinced utterly of Skywalker's progression in skills and power. I can think of one Bantam era author who should take notes on how to write a Jedi instead of supplying his own misdirected interpretations about them.<br />Shadows of the Empire is light reading. It's a well thought out action story that seeks only to entertain. The action is fast paced and different enough from those seen the films to hold the reader's interest from start to finish. Characters are vivid, especially Xizor and Vader, who as I said are the real stars of the book. While perhaps overly hyped when it was released six years ago (how many books have their own soundtracks?), if you have been considering taking a look at this, now might be the time.	2002-06-27
US	50720428	R2OFIL7HQNU82F	1568821441	963934961	The Keeper's Companion: Blasphemous Knowledge, Forbidden Secrets: A Core Book for Keepers, Vol. 1 (Call of Cthulhu Horror Roleplaying, #2388)	Books	4	56	60	N	N	The Big Book of Useful Filler	One of the very nice things about the Call of Cthulhu role playing game from Chaosium is that they rarely publish pure junk or something that doesn't have something useful within its pages, somewhere. The Keeper's Companion is just one of those books, yes, it contains material from the main rules and Cthulhu Now, but expands upon it, it is also laid out in a clear fashion that makes finding things easy. The first section, \\"Good Cthulhu Hunting\\", is mainly sage advice for players and written with tongue firmly in cheek, but also makes a good deal of sense as a sort of `Dos and Don'ts' section. It is followed by a section for Keepers, a sort of thirteen ways to improve your game. Again, common sense advice for the foolish GM who might have let his investigators keep the repeating laser cannon they found in the last adventure.<br /> Call of Cthulhu is best played, not people who know the genre cold, but rather by novices who understand the mechanics, not the genre. Lovecraft's world is a mundane one, intruded upon by the not-so-mundane, whether it be something relatively minor as an encounter with a solitary Deep One or a sanity-blasting encounter with Yog-Sothoth, the all-in-one god, it is the character's imperiled peace of mind which will be steadily chipped away by the stuff of nightmares and that which mankind is best to ought not know. Players kept in the dark, fed only what they need or discover on their own, are the best players of all.<br /> There follows the advice section, pages on books of the occult, most or all are actual books, some of which can be found on Amazon, but that you would be better of not reading. Exciting sounding tomes like `The Book of the Dead' or the `Golden Bough' are deadly dull and won't do anything except upset your parents and Tipper Gore. However, it is a nice lexicon for GMs who may want to throw non-Mythos books at their players from time to time. Following that is a handy little section on languages, real and Mythos-related, andtheir origins. It also includes some badly drawn examples of things like Mi-Go runes and R'lyeh glyphs.<br /> The next section is an expanded and detailed listing of those oh-so-wonderful mind melting pages of actual Mythos tomes- those great books that burn through your sanity, but also give you spells your characters can use. It also adds a few new spells and creatures taken from additional stories written by other authors. Next up is Arcane Antiquities, which is basically magic items and happily it bears little or no resemblance to the back of the AD&D Dungeon Master's Guide. Magic items in Call of Cthulhu are extremely rare. There are a couple of mirrors, a dagger, a ring, and a few other odd devices, so don't expect any +4 swords of dimensional shambler slaying.<br /> Let's face it, cults make life interesting. Even in real life cults provide annual entertainment with their suicidal comet worshiping antics. In Call of Cthulhu they are a somewhat less self-destructive and instead are bent on summon up some moldering nightmare to screw with mankind's mojo. Cultists are great fun, both for Keppers and player alike. As bad as it was, the guys resurrecting Imhotep in the The Mummy Returns were great, if comical and somewhat inept, examples of cultists. Cultists can come in any flavor and hardly need to be justified since they're nuts.<br /> Forensics has always been a hobby of mine. One of the aspects of Call of Cthulhu I have always admired is their inclusion of real world details to really give Keepers and players a sense of how it all works. While Cthulhu Now pretty much gives anyone a brief history of forensics, from the first documented coroner inquests in England right up to DNA evidence- it's all here as well in easy to read and understand terms, complete with bibliography. From the ways people die to firearms and drugs, it's all distilled down into a handy reference.<br /> From the mundane we arrive at Alien Races, a collection of beings and their origins from Deep Ones to the fungi from Yuggoth to the Voormis of the Hyperborea, this section gives the reader a little more detail than the standard entries in the creatures section in the main rule book. Next is Mysterious Places and includes Atlantis (bleah!), Hyperborea, unknown Kadath, Lemuria (also bleah!), unfortunately, they only give us a scant three paragraphs on R'lyeh, the sunken city and tomb of Great Cthulhu. Finally, the last section is on Skills, adds some new ones and explains all in great detail.<br /> All in all a welcome addition to my growing Call of Cthulhu collection, a game that I have played for nearly twenty years. I miss the late eighties/early nineties covers and don't much care for the cover art. However, this is a good addition for Keepers who may want to add a little more detail to their campaigns. Like most of Chaosium's publications, it is well researched and exceptionally well written while being very readable, fun and occasionally funny. It may lack detail in some places, and this is probably it's only real flaw- the alien creatures and places section could have had a little more meat in them, but other than that it's a solid addition...	2002-03-17
US	50720428	R112U5XVFT88AR	0786918373	314573589	Rebellion Era Sourcebook (Star Wars Roleplaying Game)	Books	5	29	31	N	N	Best Supplement to Date	The Rebellion Era Sourcebook is the first hard cover supplement from Wizards of the Coast since their release of their version of the role playing game. It should not be confused with the West End Games Rebel Alliance Sourcebook as just being the regurgitation of the same information in a different book, it isn't. The Rebel Alliance book is a breakdown of the Rebellion, major players, vehicles, vessels, tactics and history, whereas the new book is a survey of the time period from A New Hope, The Empire Strikes Back, and Return of the Jedi, with Shadows of the Empire, Truce at Bakura, plus it includes data on Emperor's Hands- background for the Thrawn trilogy.<br /> Each section is laid out under the time period it covers- A New Hope outlines how the Empire came into being and the New Order, the beginnings of the Rebellion by Mon Mothma, Bail Organa and Garm Bel-Iblis. It briefly covers the anti-alien sentiment held by the Empire, the Death Star (no stats, however, but if they are needed, it can be generated). It also has stats for all the major character, (and some minor ones like Tarkin and Lemelisk- the man who designed the Death Star). It does quite a good job in explaining events, concepts, and has loads of additional data, Game Master hints and ideas, plus flowing through the book along side the general data are mini adventures for players.<br /> The Dark Time section covers events from the Battle of Yavin up to the Empire Strikes Back, detailing Imperial intelligence, propaganda, supply fleets, Alliance bases, bounty hunters, the Corporate Sector, Kessel, and the Prophets of the Dark Side. The Empire Strikes Back is mostly character data, with key events described, but also includes probe droids, AT-ATs, Imperial and Alliance forces of the time, Vader's fleet, but no stats for the Super Star Destroyer. More bounty hunters, Dagobah, and the Dark Trooper project from the first Dark Forces PC game- sadly, almost no mention of Kyle Katarn or Jan Ors.<br /> Shadowsof the Empire (a book I have yet to read) covers the period immediately after The Empire Strikes Back, the creation of Rogue Squadron, Bothans and their SpyNet, Coruscant, Prince Xizor and the Black Sun syndicate, however no mention is made of Dash Render or his Outrider. I suspect Wizards might be planning a separate, more detailed Shadows of the Empire book. Finally, the last section is of course Return of the Jedi and they wasted nearly five pages on Ewoks! When will people learn that no one likes the furry little buggers? It ends leading into final main character updates and the New Republic Era and the Ssi-Ruu.<br /> A solid piece of work in full color. Lots of stills from the movies, and some top notch art as well, including a great picture of Xizor. Once again, however, the book fails to provide anything but mediocre low-detail and very small maps. A minor gripe, but one that I hope Wizard's addresses soon. Beyond that, this is great book. Granted, most people who have played the game under the West End rules and have read some of the novels, would know most of the information, but it's all here in one volume- very neatly laid out, clean, clear and to the point. I suspect that Wizards will produce sourcebooks for both the Rebel Alliance and the Empire, until then, there is this book, and a good book it is.	2001-12-31
US	50720428	R18DWAVLTW7Q4Z	076240731X	465762094	Michael Jackson's Complete Guide To Single Malt Scotch 4th Ed	Books	5	96	104	N	N	So Many Scotches, So Little Time	As a novice Scotch drinker, I often found myself in the local liquor store standing in front of the whisky displays feeling a little like Sir Edmund Hillary before Everest- wondering just where to start. Scotch, like wine or music, is an incredibly personal thing, and there are numerous brands to appeal to a wide array of palates. By my ignorance hasn't cost me, because I tend to buy what I already know I like rather than risk forty of fifty dollars on a malt that I won't like. So, rather than risk money on a malt that will just sit on the shelf, I tend to only buy various Glenmorragie, Glenfiddich, etc. In restaurants I always seem to be stuck with the 12 year old Glenlivet, since liquor barons Seagrams seems to have control of every restaurant's alcohol supply. And while on a day trip to Stillwater, Minnesota we ate a restaurant that had an impressive list of Scotches, (I consider any more than 3 or 4 types impressive), and I tried a 15 year old Glenkeith that amazed me.<br />It finally dawned on me that after nearly a year of conservative tasting, i.e. not going beyond what I have listed above, that perhaps I need an expert opinion. Michael Jackson's \\"Complete Guide to Single Malt Scotches\\" seems to fit the bill nicely. Inside are personal reviews of over 800 Scotches from Scotland and Ireland, plus a brief history of Scotch is discussed. To my chagrin, Jackson seems to have taste for peatier Islay malts like Laphroaig and Talisker, malts that I have yet to mature enough to enjoy. He does give high marks to what I already drink, with the Glenmorangies scoring in the 80's on a scale of 100. The Scotches he seems to most enjoy are those bottled by the MaCallan in the Speyside region. And again the MaCallan's seem to have an abundance of peat.<br />Overall, though, the book is marvelous. Well illustrated with clear photographs of lables to give a reader some idea of what they can look for in a store when making a purchase. His descriptions of Nose, Body, Palate andFinish are clear and concise enough that even a novice drinker like me can understand the meanings, especially when it came to what I already drink. Scotch seems to have become trendy again, and I'd like to think that I am not following that trend, because as so many people have told me, drink what I like rather than what everyone else tells you to. So I plan to start experimenting, with the \\"Complete Guide to Single Malt Scotches\\", I have a better direction. And maybe in time I will come to like Islay malts. Time will tell.	2001-10-10
US	50720428	R12FZ1ALOD29MZ	0609607820	232816733	The Gallery of Regrettable Food	Books	5	17	24	N	N	What the heck is Aspic, anyway?	The salad days of the 1950s might be long behind us now, but we can remember back to a simpler time. Drugs and race violence had only just been invented, Joseph 'Tail Gunner Joe' McCarthy and his sidekick, Richard Nixon, were finding Communist treachery and treason everywhere, even in a pumpkin. Everyone in a America was middle class and drove a Buick. Every day Dad would wake up, put on his black suit and go to the office while the kids went off to school, leaving Mom at home to contemplate suicide as a way out of her life of quiet desperation. But she had a weapon of course, because if this was to be her lot in life, she would get her revenge by cooking the most vile meals in the history of creation. Presented in stomach churning color is James Lileks' book entitled, &quot;The Gallery of Regrettable Food.&quot;<br />This book is full of pictures that will make you wonder, &quot;Did John Romero make this dish?&quot;. I'm a huge fan of food, I love to eat, yet I keep my girlish figure with a steady regimen of watching TV and playing video games. This book almost made me tear up my PETA card, (That's the People for Eating Tasty Animals), when I saw how they brutalized otherwise choice cuts on meat. Cook books are supposed to display their recipes as images of gastronomic delight, not the leavings of the family dog after it's been through the wood chipper. Some of my favorites include 'Monday Pie', which Lileks describes as &quot;This is called Monday Pie. The recipe calls for lamb, gravy and MSG. What an excellent start to the week, eh? Fried strips of albino flesh, cunningly blended with parboiled Scottish terrier testicles.&quot; Mmmm, thems good eatin'!<br />Most of the foods pictured in this book look as though they were based on a dare. Some of the choicer sections include, and I nor Mr. Lileks is making this up, &quot;Cooking with 7-Up&quot;- and no kidding, they recommend basting lamb, pork or beef with the fizzy carbonated sugar water. And what was it with the 50's where everything was sealed in aspic? For those of you who have no clue what aspic is, don't worry, no one uses this colorless, odorless gelatin any more. At least no one sane, at any rate. But there it is, big as Yeltzin's liver-wieners frozen in mid hot dog like fish frozen in ice. And from aspic we move to molds- again, the 50's near fetish desire to make everything into a loaf, my favorite being the canned salmon and cucumbers in the flaccid colorless gelatin.<br />This book has recipes by famous people, including Ellery Queen and what resembles brains in a stew pot. Makes sense since Ellery Queen wasn't a real person anyway. Famous chefs cooking with marshmallows and producing normal desserts that they hastily placed marshmallows on top of. Cooking with canned salmon and how to make it look like severed sheep's legs, and the picture of several salmon cocktails with caption &quot;'Salmon Cocktail - a delicious way to start a dinner&quot; - but look at the photograph 1.) Isn't salmon...pink? 2.) Could this possibly be bloody cauliflower masquerading as salmon.'&quot;<br />&quot;It's the 1950's and everyone's human but Mom! Oh, it surely is dessert time. The whole family strains to get a peek at what's in store. They have get a peek, because Jell-O has no scent, and therefore cannot be detected by their olfactory apparatuses. What will it be? Surely Mom had time to whip up something between all four well-spaced pregnancies. Perhaps she won't come out for a while- and when Dad goes to investigate, he finds her bent over the sink, weeping. They all look like YOU!, she sobs.&quot; Which brings us to the Jell-O portion of the book. Radishes in Jell-O? Why, it sure looks that way, doesn't it? Tomatoes, cauliflower, red peppers, and cucumbers, too! Remember, kids, Jell-O is aspic with artificial falvors.<br />You can also, apparently, cook with ketchup. Silly me, here I was putting on my burgers and fries, and occasionally on eggs when the mood took me, but Heinztried to convince the world that drowning large, whole onions in ketchup would make something approaching a meal. Or that slathering a perfectly good steak in gallons of the red salty goop and adding a few hard boiled egg slices would bring you closer to god. Or that you could bake a cake with ketchup. <br />Oh, there are pictures that would make you swear off food for life, and every section seems to have something sealed in either Jell-O or aspic, as though it were lucite and needed preserving for posterity. And then there's Aunt Jenny and her ads telling housewives to cook with SPRY brand lard. Aunt Jenny obviously wears a wig and doped out of her mind on Valium, how else could they have gotten model to pose for the ridiculous pictures? Yes, it's all here and more in James Lileks' book entitled, &quot;The Gallery of Regrettable Food.&quot;<br />This book reminded me of L.A. Bizarro. It made me laugh just as surely as it made me wince when gazing at its turgid photographs. For a good laugh at the way things used to be, get this book. And I'll see you in thirty years when James writes the same book, but this time looking back on the 80s, 90s, and 2000s- Photos of Big Macs and just about anything from Taco Bell.	2001-10-10
US	50720428	R1RDIC20UIMUC3	0764552597	970363519	Ferrets For Dummies	Books	5	54	55	N	N	Dummies for Ferrets	I can't imagine owning my ferret Tycho without the aid of this book. When my ferret lost weight and began vomiting, I panicked and agonized over what could possibly be wrong with the little guy. After he calmed down and I calmed down, I grabbed this indispensable tome and began reading to see if I could figure out what might be wrong. It turns out that ferrets are some times susceptible to all manner of little bugs just like we are, and while they can be worrisome, do not actual long term harm. And that's all it was, a virus had nailed Tycho and weight loss was a common seasonal thing. A trip to the vet confirmed our what we had read. Tycho is much better, and so are we.<br />Kim Schilling's book is probably the best there is for owning a fert. She gives all sorts of insights into what makes them tick-how they play, what their body language means-something that taught us a valuable lesson during a thunder storm. Tycho was so frightened by the noise that when my wife picked him up and went face to face with him to sooth him, Tycho sunk his teeth into her chin, then did the same to me. We both missed his frizzed out tail and fur-something that told should have told us to stay away for a little while, but we didn't know any better until after we had read the book. It has a wonderful section on health, including numerous diseases and their symptoms. It covers playing, food, housing, even breeding, plus has a wealth of state by state resources, ferret shelters and contacts for the reader.<br />Only a dummy would buy a pet, any pet, without doing research into them first. Ferrets more than just about any other pet, need to be researched thoroughly before bringing one home for the first time. We had only read one book before getting Tycho, but we probably should have read more. Now that I have read `Ferrets for Dummies', I am a little wiser in the ways of carpet sharks. I love my ferret, he's a good pal to read with as he bounds around the bed nibbling toes or burrowing under blankets. It's gratifying to know that he thinks I've done a good job raising him with his numerous kisses.<br />Buy this book and understand what you're getting into. Ferrets are great pets, but they are a high maintenance pet. They require attention, care, and love. But you know what? You will get it all back and then some.	2001-07-15
US	50720428	R1N5VZIDHTYAES	078691839X	656202147	Secrets of Tatooine (Star Wars Roleplaying Game)	Books	4	31	31	N	N	Three Times a Charm: Finally, a good supplement!	I must admit that I was justifiably skeptical that the `Secrets of Tatooine' source book would be any better than the previous two offerings from Wizards of the Coast. The first, `Secrets of Naboo' was well-written, but held no real secrets, nor enough detail to make it of any real use. `Living Force' was a limp, flaccid retread of a great many things we had seen before-pod races, cloud city gas mines, Force-resistant creatures and even a Sith Temple had all been done elsewhere and better, but instead of giving us something new, the RPGA saw fit to simply cram it all into one star system. That being said, the `Secrets of Tatooine' has broken the mold of mediocrity and as it turns out, is a pretty good deal for your Star Wars role playing gaming dollar.<br />After a brief introduction, Secrets moves into the basics with a description of the planetary data and make-up of the Tatooine System, but provides no system map. It then describes climate (really hot), geography-like the Jundland Wastes, Beggar's Canyon and the Dune Seas, explaining that complete cartography of the planet is difficult because of the sand storms. The survival section gives handy rules for heat prostration, thirst, and sand storms-the most dangerous of which, gravel storms, are a nightmare for aerial transport. Next up are native inhabitants-the sand people (Tusken Raiders, named for the first human settlement they destroyed), and the Jawas-which the author seems to patronize somewhat, describing them not really smart enough to do anything, but somehow makes things work. Finally are the creatures-the bantha, ronto, eopie, rock wart, scurrier wamp rat and krayt dragon-a creature with a combined Vitality and Wound Point total of 470 and attacks that can cut land speeders in half. A little too powerful for anytone but the toughest PCs, (or those with good ranged attacks).<br />The biggest section and by the far the most important are the cities, unfortunately, the book only provides character stats for movie characters, and very little of mayors and other townspeople other than those created by Lucas. Bib Fortuna, Watto and Shmi Skywalker are here, as are most of the aliens from the cantina, but no regular folk, too bad because they add color, even more than those individuals we already know about. The maps of Mos Espa, Mos Eisley, etc. are horrible and continues a trend that has plagued the Star Wars RPG supplements from day one. Detailed, well labeled maps are not hard to do, but completely absent from the Star Wars supplements.<br />Another good section is the complete pod racing rules, including stats for all of the racers in the Boonta Eve Classic from the Phantom Menace. It also lets players design their own pods and gives a complete list of die-determined hazards, and finally a map of the Boonta Eve Circuit. Finally, the non-Episode I based adventure was a treat, and it was a nice change of pace since I feel that Wizards of the Coast is paying way too much attention to Episode I and not enough emphasis on other eras of play. Given the shear breadth of material available from the Tails of the Jedi, Rebellion, New Republic and New Jedi Order, the supplements should be spilling out of Wizards. In the end, however, `Secrets of Tatooine' again doesn't have a lot of secrets to offer, but instead gives the Star Wars game master a good source book for the birth place of Luke Skywalker.<br />May the Force be with you.	2001-07-04
US	50720428	R1NSZ5IXQCMC3Y	0345434390	42452496	The Essential Chronology (Star Wars)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Almost Esential	One of things I have always admired about Star Wars in general is the fact that the universe is for the most part internally consistent, that is one story doesn't contradict one that preceded it, (Phantom Menace notwithstanding). Even in the Expanded Universe-the all-encompassing title given to that which takes place outside of the current four-film mainstream, the continuity is generally pretty tight, which is a major feat considering the number of authors involved. Characters created by one author often appear in stories written by others, instead of treating each book or series of books as a closed environment, rather agreements have been made between writers to make use of each other's characters, places, or events i.e. Michael A. Stackpole using Mara Jade in \\"I, Jedi\\" or Zahn using Corran Horn in \\"Specter of the Past/Vision of the Future\\".<br />The history of Star Wars or the Galactic Republic encompasses 25,000 years, plus an unknown time of pre-history, the period before the Republic. Recorded Terran history is only 10,000 years and even if rendered down into a brief missive on the events in that time it would fill volumes. Condensed here in a little over 190 pages is the \\"Essential Star Wars Chronology\\" which ends precisely at the point that \\"Vector Prime\\" and the New Jedi Order begins, which is odd because the New Jedi Order began in 1999 and the \\"Essential Star Wars Chronology\\"  was published in 2000. And given the importance of the New Jedi Order, one would think that they at least would have added information on the first three books by Salvatore and Stackpole.<br />\\"The Star Wars Chronology\\" covers only about 5,000 years of galactic history, beginning with the Dark Horse Comics excellent \\"Tales of the Jedi\\" series and the rise of one of my favorite characters, Nomi Sunrider. It deals with the beginnings of Naga Sadow, Freedon Nadd, Ulic Qel-Droma and Exar Kun, of Jedi Knights Cay Qel-Droma and Tot Doneeta. It adds some clearer information on the background for LucasArts' masterpiece, \\"Dark Forces II: Jedi Knight\\", explaining how the planet Ruusan a battleground that led Kyle Katarn there centuries later to free the thousands of trapped Jedi spirits there after defeating the Dark Jedi, Jerec. <br />Where the universe falls apart, and this is not Chronology author's Kevin J. Anderson's fault, is that it shows that the Jedi seem to be perhaps more of a hindrance than a blessing, and that very nearly every problem in galactic history is related to some Jedi falling to the Dark Side and causing problems. If every era is plagued by some resurgence of the Sith or a cabal of Jedi who fell to evil, why wouldn't the public at large demand the removal of the Jedi as a precaution? Simply put, guys like Exar Kun, Ulic Qel-Droma, Palpatine, and Darth Vader seem to happen an awful lot, leading to massive conflict and loss of life. Is the risk worth the existence of the Jedi Order at all? I feel that it is, but I also feel that too many authors are obsessed with the Dark Side because they think it's `cool', and so they write it without considering that so many others are doing it also.<br />Lastly, however well written and laid out the book is, the art goes beyond bad. Bill Hughes' pencil sketches of squat, square jawed characters and their angular features, gives the innards of this book a rushed and cheap look. Given the shear number of quality artists producing material for Star Wars, why in the name of the Force did they select this guy? Why not Dave Dorman? Why not R.K. Frost who did the wonderful art for the \\"Essential Guide to Alien Species\\"? Kevin J. Anderson and Daniel Wallace's writing must also be credited for making this book a breeze to read and locate information. For the most part this is a very good source for finding out what and when.<br />The Force will be with you, always.	2001-06-19
US	50720428	R1DPNOWPCMWMSL	0380707632	74748334	Stephen Hawking's Universe	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Black Holes have no Hair	In this present-day world, it seems impossible that there could someone who has not heard of Stephen Hawking, even if it is only from his appearances on Star Trek: The Next Generation or the Simpsons. And yet within this frail, tiny man lies one of the most potent minds mankind has ever borne forth, yet I am given to wonder if he would have achieved his current level of notoriety if he was not crippled by ALS. Or if his powerful mind would be less so were it not trapped within the body of an invalid. I cannot answer these questions, but instead I read mainstream publications and like so many others, stand in awe at the feet of a man who carries Einstein's legacy further toward a final answer. A unified field theory.<br />It started ten of fifteen billion years ago during the Big Bang -that explosion that had blown out all of the matter in the universe. The Big Bang didn't simply occur in the void of space, it created space as well. But what Hawking is looking for, partially, is knowledge as to whether the fundamental forces of physics existed or not within the first few billionths of a second after the explosion or whether or not time existed either. Hawking, and others in his field, like Roger Penrose, are trying to find a correlation between cosmology and quantum mechanics, which is the study of the internal workings of atoms and the movement of subatomic particles. Indeed, it is a journey through space-time and one that if found will teach us a little more about the universe.<br />From the dust of stars we came and to the stars we return. Much like \\"A Brief History of Time\\", we are given truly intimate glimpses into the intricacies of both the universe and Hawking himself. He is a man with a great sense of humor coupled with an almost child-like enthusiasm for new things. His bet over the origins of Cygnus X-1 with physicist Kip Thorne certainly bears this out: \\"If it turns out that the binary system does not contain a black hole -breaking many a physicist's hear- Hawking will win a four-year subscription to the British humor magazine Private Eye. If it is a Black Hole, Thorne will win a one-year subscription to Penthouse.\\" In effect Hawking bet against himself, since he believes that one of the objects is in fact a black hole.<br />Indeed, no other object of stellar phenomena has so captured the public's imagination and superstition than the prospect of a black hole. These once-massive stars of 10 to 15 solar masses that have collapsed down to mere fractions of their previous size and emit fields of intense gravitation. And those that get so small-to the point of a singularity, may yet reveal more information on the origins of the universe, since Hawking theorizes that what was before the Big Bang may indeed be imitated by what is within a black hole. As with so many things, others have asked why is it so important? And like Sir Edmund Hillary replied when asked why he wished to climb Mount Everest, \\"Because it is there.\\"<br />What is also remarkable is that ALS usually kills individuals much sooner and by all rights Hawking should have died years ago. But somehow he keeps going, (he turned 59 in January), and perhaps it is that drive to explore with his mind if not his body, that keeps him going. But I for one am very grateful that Mr. Hawking is still with us, because the world needs great explorers.	2001-06-04
US	50720428	R5K4NE8KY1KQM	0345420683	157254808	The Essential Guide to Planets and Moons (Star Wars)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	All the Galaxy's a Stage...	This is a neat little catalog that depicts the dozens of worlds explored in the galaxy, often the homeworlds of many of the most common races depicted in the movies and in books. It covers almost a hundred places, gives great examples of flora and fauna found on the worlds, as well as the native intelligent life, if any. It also has a handy little time line at the front. Where this book falls apart is in the black and white line art usually used to depict the natives of each world or moon-it's sub-standard, very cartoony, and no where near on par with the art found elsewhere in other \\"Essential Guides...\\". Otherwise, though, it is an excellent book.<br />Unfortunately, it doesn't really explain much about a native race's culture or history, but rather tends to simply explain what adventures were had there. For example, the planet Bimmisaari-a world created by Zhan, the entry spends 2 paragraphs describing the world and its natives, and eight or so paragraphs on what Han, Luke and Leia did there-I read the Thrawn trilogy and don't want yet another description of what went on, but rather want detail on the world itself. Since I usually put these books to use in role playing scenarios, I might have found actual planetary information handy to have.	2001-05-28
US	50720428	R3KWG82Q5M86IU	0345414136	818951439	Star Wars: The Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Guns! Guns! Guns! Oh, and some other stuff, too!	I really enjoy the Del Rey Star Wars \\"Essential Guides...\\", they are for the most part well written and generally well conceived by authors who genuinely love Star Wars. Bill Smith's work on \\"The Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology\\" is a fun tech book on everything from blasters and lightsabers to ground based turbo laser batteries, vaporators, comlinks and sensor jamming technology. The book also lists the corporations that produce the equipment people use in day to day life. I find that this tends to add a sense of realism, since no one uses entirely generic items that are provided free of charge to everyone...like on Star Trek.<br />The book is also well detailed with lots of art, both three-dimensional sketches and line drawings, accompany the text that describes each object. Often, in the case of unique items, Magwit's Mystifying Hoop, explain who used it and why. Unfortunately, if teleportation is so common that performers can use it in their stage acts, why isn't proliferated every where else in Star Wars? Mostly, the art is quite good, though I found a few of the personal weapons to be gimicky and/or poorly conceived of and drawn. Other than this is a great reference for Star Wars fans who might be tired of being buried under meaningless Treknobabble.	2001-05-28
US	50720428	R9SX18MM2YFW2	0345442202	634000663	The Essential Guide to Alien Species (Star Wars)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Wow! And it gets 5 stars from me	...the &#8220;Essential Guide to Alien Species&#8221; is, by a fair margin, the best of the &#8220;Essential Guides&#8221; to date, except for maybe &#8220;Vehicles & Vessels&#8221;. It covers more than 150 aliens and creatures, Amanin to Zeltrons, from Dugs to Verpine, each with a neat little capsule that details some biology, planets, and societies, if any. Each capsule is also accompanied by reports filed by all and sundry, like Luke Skywalker and Boba Fett, about encounters with these creatures. Some races and creatures are really interesting, like the Gand, whome authors like Michael Stackpole have done an excellent job in detailing. While others, like the Gank, are in my opinion, are dead wrong. I and others had always assumed that the &#8216;gank&#8217; in &#8216;gank killer&#8217; simply meant &#8216;bounty&#8217; or &#8216;trophy&#8217;, thus anyone could be a gank killer, like Boba Fett or 4-LOM, but instead they&#8217;ve made it a creature.<br />Every picture that accompanies each entry is wonderful! R.K. Frost, the Illustrator, has done a marvelous job with each. Lines are neat and tight, and given the narrowness of limbs, etc. I am given to wonder if Frost&#8217;s usual artwork is a little more akin to the stuff that came out of Hellraiser the art of Brom- the Drovian on pp. 31, has a big-time Cenobite influence to it. Ultimately though, it doesn&#8217;t matter, because Frost&#8217;s work is superb cover to cover, vastly superior to the cartoony art in the &#8220;Essential Guides to Planets & Moons&#8221;. The are is clear and clean when it needs to be, dirty and gritty when it needs to be that as well.<br />I have all of the &#8220;Essential Guides&#8221;, and every one of them would earn at least 3 stars in a review by me at Amazon-dot-com. This one gets 5,  because it&#8217;s that good...	2001-05-22
US	50720428	R5XY0Q624Q0L2	1568821484	455398529	Call Of Cthulhu: Horror Roleplaying In the Worlds Of H.P. Lovecraft (5.6.1 Edition / Version 5.6.1)	Books	5	33	33	N	N	A Role Playing Masterpiece	Few role playing games capture the feel of their genre perfectly in both feel and game mechanics. Call of Cthulhu by Chaosium is such a superb game, that it has endured six editions and over 20 years publication. At its core is the Cthulhu Mythos created by master Howard Philips Lovecraft who wove stories based around a pantheon of alien gods, powerful and diabolic beings whose merest incarnation would shatter the tenuous grip we have on our `mundane' world where things like night gaunts or shantaks are minor horrors compared to Yog-Sothoth, Azathoth or Great Cthulhu himself. Around these beings are often cults- dangerous underground societies who want nothing more than to see their fabled masters arise from ages past and walk the Earth again.<br />At it's core Call of Cthulhu is a rather mechanically simple game and characters are easy to put together so long as care as taken to understand what skills are needed with regard to the kind of game the Keeper is planning to run. Once your character is complete, make another one and don't get attached to either of them. Seriously, played smartly, most characters can and will survive physically in tact, mentally, however is another story. As the game progresses  and as more and more elements of the Mythos are revealed, characters begin to have their sanity chipped away at. If they are strong (and lucky), they can overcome these lurkers in the darkness and restore some of their lost sanity.<br />Characters can also learn magic from a vast list of spells, some are good, most are not as good. It's important to know how to bind a dimensional shambler before you summon one. Spells and magic items can be the focus of adventures as characters race to prevent a cult from obtaining an artifact that will be used in a ritual to summon Cthugha for weenie roast in Central Park one warm summer night.<br />The beauty of Call of Cthulhu, aside from it's relative cheapness compared to other games (you only need the main source book to begin play), is that it can cover very nearly any era-1890's, 1920's (Lovecraft's era), and the present day, and good Keepers will go to some lengths to make sure their players understand what is and is not possible in the various time lines. Plus there are numerous web sites that deal with Call of Cthulhu and offer a host of resources for players and Keepers alike. It's easy to find historical information based on almost any location in the world that a Keeper may plan to run his or her campaign.<br />Most importantly is the mood of the game itself. I've played Call of Cthulhu for fifteen years and most of the games have had great suspense, excitement, and were a lot of fun. I've played it by candle light in the dead of winter, something that adds so much to the atmosphere. Good keepers can build suspense that, like a good novel, will make your skin crawl with a healthy dose of other-worldly fear. It is also important to remember that Call of Cthulhu isn't a meat grinder that chews up and spits out characters as fast as the players can roll them up. As an alternative to swords and sorcery or lightsabers and blasters, Call of Cthulhu is an excellent RPG. Additionally, I highly recommend the works of H.P. Lovecraft as source material, plus their darn good reads.	2001-05-11
US	50720428	R1QI9B4V5D92BD	0764110500	256526816	Ferrets (Barron's Complete Pet Owner's Manuals)	Books	4	19	20	N	N	FUZZIES!	Owning a ferret is a little like owning a child - they require your full attention and a great deal of time, especially when they're young. When we bought our first ferret, Tycho, my wife and I had already done a little research and so we had some idea of what to expect. We should have done more, however. They're a handful, but ultimately worth it, because most ferrets are not only cute and cuddly, but smarter than most dogs and like cats, genuinely curious in most things in their environment. Before bringing your little carpet shark home it is important to know what you're getting into. Prospective ferret owners should do plenty of research before taking the plunge and buying one or more of the little cuties.<br />E. Lynn Morton's book presents an easy to read yet detailed fact book about fuzzies, basics like nutrition- ferrets are carnivores and cannot handle a vegetarian diet, and even explains proteins and how they can differ depending on the source. Discipline and how it should be done- and I have found that most books recommend the same basic techniques, none of which require hitting your ferret or even flicking its nose. And it was thanks to this book it explained seasonal weight loss and gains, something that had us very worried when Tycho shed a half pound in just a short while. It also talks about diseases common to ferrets and detail about their biology.<br />It has plenty of pictures of fuzzies, cages, toys, bedding, and what is and is not acceptable for ferrets to live in, sleep in and play with. More importantly it asks the reader to think about the time they will have to spend after getting their carpet shark- they require more care than either kittens or puppies at first and when they're out of their cages, require constant supervision. Tycho is joy to own, but it hasn't been all roses. He bit a lot and got into things he shouldn't have, but at six months of age we own a very loving and happy ferret who plays with us and new kitten pal, Fenix. Thanksto books like this and the others my wife and I have read, we're a little smarter for the experience and have a great new pet.	2001-05-09
US	50720428	R2XPGMZT6OJX4K	0786918357	625986745	Psionics Handbook (Dungeons & Dragons d20 3.0 Fantasy Roleplaying)	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Settle it the Scanner way...	The 2nd Edition `Complete Book of Psionics' almost ruined mental abilities in general for me. It was one of the most poorly thought-out supplements for the AD&amp;D system, supplanted only by the `Complete Book of Elves'. It was unbalanced and mechanically inept, and prone to abuse by munchkins and bad DMs everywhere. I ran a heavily modified 2nd Edition psionic system in a Dark Sun campaign, and I still thought it was awful. Suffice it to say that anything would have been an improvement. At the same time I have always been of two minds about psionics in a fantasy setting- Deryni books notwithstanding, the realm of psi has always seemed better suited to science fiction than swords and sorcery, but for better or for worse, here it is. And it's hard cover, too.<br /> The 160-page `Psionics Handbook' is a PH for mentalists. It is laid out almost exactly like the new Player's Handbook, so you will find it familiar almost instantly. Starting first with classes, of which there are only two- the Psion and the Psychic Warrior. The former is a sort of generalist psi, and one who specializes in one of the six Disciplines, but may choose from any so long as they give priority to their chosen discipline. Like mages and sorcerers, they have distributed powers from first to ninth level, and they maintain the `Power Point' system as a carry over from the 2nd Edition version, only this time they handled it right. One of the biggest mitigating elements of the Psion character class is the d4 for Hit Points, again, much like a wizard.<br /> The Psychic Warrior on the other hand is a more combat oriented character, who while possessing numerous psychic powers up to 6th level, still can't hold a candle to a standard warrior in raw combat potential. Unfortunately, the other carry over from 2nd Edition is that these characters do not have to learn or be taught their next level powers- i.e. once they obtain a level where new abilities are gained- 3rd, 5th, 7th, and so on, the player simplyselects the psionic powers they want their character to have and voila, they do. No time is spent learning them, acquiring arcane psionic lore or otherwise. Wise DMs will nuke this instantly and make their psionic characters learn new powers in a similar fashion that a magic user must undergo in order to obtain a new spell(s).<br /> The psionic powers section in many ways mirrors spells out of the players handbook, and often powers not covered by spells are mishandled. Danger Sense, for example, protects you from traps-like spikes or pits, but does nothing to warn you about a potential ambush. Combat Sense grants you a +2 bonus to strike a foe, but no insight into what that foe plans to do-the traditional working of a combat sense power. Other spells imitate spells like Grease, Spider Climb, Charm Person, and Shape Change, etc.  On the other hand they have cleaned up and simplified the psionic combat section until it both works and makes sense.<br /> In monster section we have a cast of old favorites like the brain mole, intellect devourer and the githyanki, plus the addition of a Dark Sun monster, the Caller in Darkness, and the completely ridicules `Temporal Filcher' which players should laugh at until the DM who introduces it takes it away and apologizes for using such an insipid monster.<br /> As will all things D&amp;D, application of judicious common sense is required so that non-psionic characters are not overshadowed by those that have psionics. Powers, Skills and Feats all need to be examined by players and DMs alike to make sure that they will only enhance the game, not unbalance it in favor of psionics. D&amp;D is a magical setting and thusly magic should be more common and better understood than psi, and even ultimately perhaps more powerful. That does not mean that there is no place for one or two psionic characters in a well-run, well-balanced campaign. This book is quite good.	2001-04-08
US	50720428	R1E8T6FABUJEVF	0786919639	301695727	Living Force Campaign Guide (Star Wars Roleplaying Game)	Books	2	21	21	N	N	A supplement that doesn't take chances	Being the second supplement for the new Star Wars role playing game, the Living Force Campaign Guide is the `home system' of the RPGA and a part of the prequel time line. Though 30 pages shorter than the `Secrets of Naboo' book, it actually offers up information that can be considered useful to game masters. It details all of the planets within the Cularin System which is comprised of five planets (Acilaris, Cularin, Genarius, Morjakar, an asteroid belt, and Almas), orbiting a twin (binary) stars. The system is a hodge-podge of sorts as the writers tried to stuff as much of the rest of the galaxy into it. There are cloud cities hovering in the upper atmosphere of Genarius like Bespin, platform cities above the jungle world of Cularin, plus it is inhabited by a sentient race who reveres nature, both similar to Ithor, an asteroid field home to smugglers, and were invaded by the Trade Federation. All that was missing was a pod racing circuit.<br /> Unfortunately where it falls apart is the total lack of detail where it was needed the most. A section called Mysterious Places and intended for story hooks, is far to brief in its descriptions of these places. The book mentions a Sith temple on the planet Almas, but spends less than half a page describing, and none of these `mysterious places' is accompanied by a map. One would assume that the most interesting places would be covered in some more detail than a few pages near the end of the book. The maps that are provided-the city of Forard is useless and an asteroid base is slightly less so. Finally, the art is just bland, not poorly drawn, just completely uninspired. In fact, the whole work seems to be a retread of what we have seen done before, and in many cases, better.<br /> It has a native race on Cularin who are naturally Force sensitive, like the Witches of Dathomir. It has a creature that lives in the gas giant Genarius that secrete a fluid that negates Force powers, similar to the ysalamiri. It also states that one of the gases mined at Genarius is argon- a colorless, odorless, and completely inert gas that reacts with nothing, and one of the noble gases like krypton and neon. All in all the Living Force doesn't really produce anything new and not a lot that we haven't seen before. The `great evil' they mention on the back cover is still a mystery, because they didn't detail it much either.<br /> What it does well is provide decent backgrounds for their large stable of NPCs, and good histories for why the system turned out that way. Perhaps the authors felt they could legitimize their work by including so much material from other Star Wars sources, like a blockade by the Trade Federation. Or maybe it was easier to borrow than to create something new. It does provide a Jedi Academy and some detail on how it is run, so there is at least a reason to include the Cularin System in your overall RPG universe, and maybe it even survived the Purge by the Emperor to be of use after the fall of the Empire into the New Jedi Order, a time more interesting, at least so far, than the prequel story line.<br />The Force will be with you, always.	2001-03-27
US	50720428	RFUJC4BG8FCYT	0786917946	325101631	Secrets of Naboo Campaign Pack (Star Wars Roleplaying Game)	Books	3	12	13	N	N	Secrets, No. Some useful Material, Yes.	As the first real supplement for the new Star Wars Role Playing Game from Wizards of the Coast, `Secrets of Naboo' could have had a little more...well, a little more. `Secrets' is a complete misnomer, because it reveals nothing that could be considered unusual or out of the ordinary. In fact there are no secrets revealed that any moderately dyed in the wool Star Wars fan wouldn't already know. The proper title should have read something like `Fodor's Guide to Naboo', because although it is well written, it reads a little like one of the many country guides available in most book stores today.<br /> It briefly covers both species to the planet-the humans and the gungans, but doesn't go into much detail about either. It talked about how when the humans first arrived on Naboo almost four-thousand years ago they went to war with the gungans because of vast differences, but in the end both races come off as being basically they same-both revere nature, but the Naboo build in harmony around it the gungans build in harmony with it. And the highly artistic, refined and intelligent Naboo view the gungans as backwards, primitive screwheads. It does have some Naboo customs, but most involve the Queen (as if she were the only interesting person on the planet), and what it lacks for either species is diet-what kind of foods do they eat, manufactured goods-what stuff do they make, marriage customs, you know, important stuff.<br /> What it does spell out is that the Naboo are influenced strongly off Plato's Republic and Confucianism-children are constantly tested to see where the aptitude lies and they are placed into the profess. It also said that even the lowliest sanitation workers talked about poetry, and then went on to say that there is rising organized crime, and one is given to wonder if Naboo gangsters discuss politics while they break someone's knees. It doesn't really detail any of the cities other than brief mentions, and the maps are such a complete waste of time thatmight have not bothered with them at all.<br /> Where it is good were portions on the various flora and fauna-including a section on poisons. All of the animal and monster stats were much appreciated as well. Plus the section on the criminal element on the planet was good, but again it could have done with more detail. And excluding the pictures from the film, all of the interior art and maps are basically worthless. But there just isn't enough meat to this source book, and I am pretty sure they could have filled the last 36 pages of a 96 page book with yet another retelling of the invasion of Theed! Come on, they already have a boxed set- that does just that and the Phantom Menace video game, and it really doesn't matter if this adventure is a little more detailed-it has been done already.<br /> Is it worth owning. Tough call, but I'd say that it is. The game information is quite good and it is a genuinely well-written book. Plus, if you're like me and have to have most things Star Wars, then yes, go buy it. I only hope Wizards can stop fixating on the Phantom Menace.	2001-02-18
US	50720428	R17AGOYH15Y0JP	0553568035	111578566	Star Wars X-Wing: The Krytos Trap, Book 3	Books	4	1	2	N	N	The Rogues Take Coruscant! (4½ Stars)	I just read a review of the Phantom Menace where the reviewer said that anyone who didn't like the movie was not a true Star Wars fan. So, in order to be a true Star Wars fan, you must like everything that has ever been published about it, regardless of quality or content, got that? People have no right to their own opinions and must have them dictated to by narrow minded fans who are so insecure about what they like that they have spew them out like toxic effluent and poison phenomena like Star Wars. It is like all things that have a following- you like what you like and leave the rest, which is as it should be. I didn't much care for the Phantom Menace. Deal with it.<br />For myself I am really enjoying Michael A. Stackpole's X-wing series, and the `Krytos Trap' is no exception. It concentrates on crackling good action centered around the now famous Rogue Squadron-a dozen of the most skilled X-wing pilots originally assembled by Luke Skywalker after the Battle of Yavin and now led by Wedge Antilles. In this book the New Republic forces have taken Coruscant-the capital of the Old Republic and the now-almost-defeated Empire. But at what cost?<br />The delightfully maniacal Ysanne Isard has unleashed a virus known as Krytos which afflicts almost all races with the exceptions of humans, bothans, and a few other closely related species like wookies. The terrible plague ravages the body, breaking down cell membranes until the victim is literally this bloody slurry of agonized pulp before finally dying after mere days of contracting the disease. There is a cure, however, but bacta is in short supply which drives up the prices, putting the New Republic in a very precarious position as they face allegations of racism. To make matters worse Corran Horn is dead and Captain Tycho Celchu is on trial for his murder during the Rogue Squadron mission on Coruscant.<br />But Horn isn't dead, instead he has been captured by Isard and has him held on the Lusankya prison where she attempts to brain wash him into one of her custom agents. This is the same problem that Celchu faces since he himself was a prisoner of hers in Lusankya as well and this fact dogs him through out the story. But Isard is finding Horn a very hard nut to crack, because for some reason he keeps shrugging off her mind control attempts. Meanwhile, Wedge Antilles puts it all on the line by steadfastly supporting Celchu during his trial.<br />About the only concept I wasn't thrilled with was the idea of the bacta cartels out of the planet Thyferra. This stuff is almost as important as fuel for starships, and in a galaxy with tens of thousands of inhabited worlds and trillions of people, there would be no cartels controlling the supply of bacta given how long it's been around. In all that time it would have been stolen, duplicated, etc. that many companies would have been making it for centuries. The stuff is too important to be controlled by a few cartels, it's not cocaine, it's an all-purpose medical item like a stethoscope.<br />`Krytos Trap' like the rest of the Rogue Squadron books are genuinely good reads-light, easy to digest, and more focused on having fun with the Star Wars environment than producing some in-depth political discourse. These books will never win major literary awards, but who cares, they're there to be enjoyed. And thanks to Stackpole's excellent grasp of all things Star Wars, the Rogue Squadron series delivers high adventure, larger than life heroes and villains and continues the greatest space fantasy of them all.<br />The Force will be with you, always.	2001-01-31
US	50720428	R6UJ80VV9BCCZ	0345420667	569188059	A Guide to the Star Wars Universe	Books	4	3	6	N	N	A Guide, Not A 'Complete' Guide to the Star Wars Universe	`Completely revised and expanded' is what the cover of the Third Edition `Guide to the Star Wars Universe' says, but when those who own previous editions flip through the pages, they find a great deal of what they have read before with scant passages of new information, and Slavicsek professes to be a huge Star Wars fan, I find it odd that he completely misses entire series of novels-like the Aaron Alston series of X-wing books. Plus Slavicsek touches on the Phantom Menace with character bios, places and equipment, but he ignores a lot of the other material-books and comics-that came out after the film. As well there is very little new art, and none of the art is original, rather pictures we have seen before, (and gives us one of the dumbest pictures of Corran Horn I have ever seen). He makes no mention of Dark Forces II: Jedi Knight, which in my opinion is one of the best pieces of Star Wars related material released in the last five years.<br />Now, that is not to say that the book isn't worth the money. It is overflowing with all sorts of obscure facts from sources that many people might not otherwise read-like it draws heavily on the Star Wars role playing Game material (West End Games, not Wizards), though I suspect that it mainly because Slavicsek wrote a lot of those books as well. It takes from comics, novels, movies, even the forgettable Droid and Ewok TV shows, and the two Ewok movies, even the Holiday Special, which we won't talk about. Ever.<br />I think it falls apart because they released it too soon. It covers Vector Prime, but none of the five other books that followed it in the New Jedi Order series. No mention of `Onslaught', `Ruin', `Heroes Trial', `Jedi Eclipse' or `Balance Point', and perhaps Del Rey should have waited until they had been published before releasing this to make it even more up to date. Still, it is an excellent source of Star Wars information, a great source for role playing material and a reference to all the books and comics you haven't yet read. Not great, but still pretty darn good.<br />May the Force be with you.	2001-01-25
US	50720428	RI198WD2KTO3M	078691792X	182553096	Invasion of Theed (Star Wars Sci-Fi Roleplaying)	Books	3	16	17	N	N	Been There, Done That, but Good for Beginners (3½ Stars)	The `Invasion of Theed' boxed set is designed more for younger players or people new to role playing. It provides everything you need to start playing the new Star Wars role playing game, but suffers from a lot of same problems that a lot of Phantom Menace merchandise does in that we have already seen this. A lot of writers and game designers have simply been retelling the Episode I story line in order to sell products. When the original West End Games Star Wars RPG came out, they didn't get you to replay A New Hope or the Empire Strikes Back, no, they gave you new adventures. But as an introduction to the new game mechanics, it works quite well.<br /> Players use pre-generated characters that include two Jedi Guardians (the character class that eventually becomes a Jedi Knight at 7th level) Sia-Lan Wezz and Rann I-Kanu, a young Wookie scout named Rorworr, Deel Surool, a Twi'lek scoundrel, and a member of Naboo's security force, Galak. All of these characters are well-rounded, but more experienced players who still want to familiarize themselves by playing the adventure may wish to create their own characters.<br /> The scenarios themselves revolve around the players escaping the initial attack by the droids of the Trade Federation and join the underground. From there they must rescue captured pilots and leaders, aiding Queen Amidala and finally a swamp adventure against swamp monsters a low-level Dark Jedi, (Darth Maul's assistant, no doubt). All in all, not bad, but too linear in scope and story or perhaps not enough meat for more experienced gamers. It does however come with free dice and a Wookie action figure, which you shouldn't open because it might be worth something in a few years. Also, I really liked the color character art by Adam Hughes, it has a nice clean and unfettered look to it.<br /> If you have an interest in the new Wizard's of the Coast Star Wars RPG, buy the hard cover rules instead of or with this boxed set. It is worth the money, for what you pay compared to what you get, and even if you don't like it, the action figure is cute and everyone can use the dice.<br />The Force will be with you, always.	2001-01-24
US	50720428	R1IXIK3YT3747H	0786917938	22996977	Core Rulebook (Star Wars Roleplaying Game)	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Almost Perfect (4½ Stars)	First off the new Star Wars role playing games by Wizards of the Coast is a complete departure from West End Game's earlier version. The d6 system used by West End had to be one of the least heroic game engines I have ever seen, forcing players to horde their experience points in order to focus on the most important skills. Instead, the new Star Wars system uses a modified version of the 3rd Edition Dungeons &amp; Dragons core rules to make it work. Which is does to a certain extend-I still have major issues with 3rd Edition D&amp;D, which unfortunately have crept into this game. And I have to agree with Jim Jenkins comments that the core rule book pays too much attention to Episode 1: there just isn't enough of anything good to focus the book on.<br /> Players familiar with 3rd Edition D&amp;D will find that much of the rules are pretty straight forward from the core stats of the character Strength, Dexterity, Intelligence, etc. to saving throws and movement. They even imported the concept of Prestige Classes in from the 3rd Edition. Character generation is easy, with only minor glitches such as who gets which Class Skills and who doesn't- for some reason they decided that Piloting is a Cross-Class skill for Jedi, meaning it costs double the skill points to purchase over a Class Skill, when most of the Jedi we have seen in the books or movies have been pilots and good ones at that. Forcing a character to multi-class in order to be a good pilot is extreme, even paying double the cost is too much.<br /> AD&amp;D has always been at its best with only minor tweaks here and there in order to make it a fun, exciting game to play-at least in the genre of super heroic fantasy is concerned. Thus using these rules for Star Wars makes a certain amount of sense since they are very close in relation to one and other. AD&amp;D has magic, Star Wars has the Force, both have weird creatures and monsters and a strong sense of mysticism and epic history. Both genres possess a lot ofwhat I like in a role playing game, so using the same rules is not just efficiency and economy, it makes good sense. The test characters I have worked out are well balanced, but only time will tell how they work in an actual game environment.<br /> Book layout is clear and concise, the text is easy to read and the rules are actually better explained than there were in the 3rd Edition D&amp;D rules. Speaking of rules there are only two that I dislike and are carryovers from 3rd Edition. First is the flat footed rule: starting a combat flat footed (even if surprised), especially for low level characters can mean death and should be ignored. Second is the static initiative rule for combat rounds-let players roll their initiatives each round. Beyond that everything else is simple, seamless and meant to enhanced and accelerate play. And while there may be rules that need to be tweaked in-game, they are not worth mentioning.<br /> The art is so-so, (I generally prefer the art from the Invasion of Theed boxed set) and the sample characters are a good way to show new players how PCs and NPCs increase in ability as they gain levels. I tended to wince every time they had a Phantom Menace character who was better than an old trilogy character, i.e. Queen Amidala having a higher charisma score than Princess Leia or Darth Maul just having so much better stats than Darth Vader-it just smacked of favoritism to me. However, the spread of characters goes from Episode 1 to the New Jedi Order and even has stats for Yuuzhan Vong-their equipment and coralskipper fighter.<br /> All in all a well done book. I still recommend using West End Game's books as source material. Much like Fasa (good source material, lousy game systems), WEG produced a lot of good supplements for the old Star Wars game-adventures and source books, that can be used for the new system and converting between them won't prove to be that difficult. So finally a game system worthy of Star Wars has finally been produced. It isn't perfect, but it comes very, very close. Go for it!<br />May the Force be with you.	2001-01-22
US	50720428	R22DMM6H1EELY6	0385479689	185160275	Dead Men Do Tell Tales: The Strange and Fascinating Cases of a Forensic Anthropologist	Books	5	39	40	N	N	Roll the Bones and Read the Truth They Cast	For nearly a century the science of forensics has grown from a barely understood art to a marvel of modern science. From development of finger printing in the early 1900's, to DNA gene matching of today, forensic pathology and anthropology have blossomed into the law's best weapons against criminals that stalk our world. In `Dead Men Do Tell Tales' we enter the world of Dr. William Maples, PhD of the C A Pound Human Identification Center in Gainesville, Florida-an often brutal and ghoulish realm of dismembered corpses, hastily torched cremains of hapless victims or those dumped in septic tanks to rot and putrify in the other detritus of man's remains. Dr. Maples' own study is the field of forensic anthropology-the study of the human skeleton, and this man's expertise in that field has cemented my interest in amateur study of forensics.<br /> Told in the first person, Maples comes across as brilliant and personable, if a little supremely confident in his own abilities as an investigator. And like Stephen Hawking's `A Brief History of Time', isn't afraid to admit when he has erred. Where the book shines, aside from its plethora of information, is in the presentation of that information-Maples never uses terms that he doesn't explain, knowing full well that the book is going to be read more by laymen like me than a peer within the profession. So do not expect detailed treatises on anatomy, pathology or pages of chemical breakdowns. Instead, Maples presents an easy to understand work that is surprising in its level of detail, and a credit to himself and his co-author, Michael Browning, for making it understandable.<br /> Though it is a book on anthropology, one cannot write about one subject without at least touch on the pathology end, since the two are intimately related. After explaining his own origins from his birth in Dallas, Texas, his schooling and odd jobs he held in order to pay for his college-mostly that of riding shot gun in an ambulance while working for amortuary as they sped from accident to accident, trying to scoop business away from competing funeral homes. He majored in English, but took a course on anthropology on a lark at the suggestion of his university counsellor. In so doing he met Tom McKern, who impressed Maples with his skill as a teacher, mentoring himself to the older professor.<br /> Past the first chapter we enter Maples' job, past his trapping baboons in Africa in 1960s to his eventual relocation as Gainesville and the C A Pound offices there. Florida, he describes, is a living organism with highways making up its arterial system, and a place where criminals, like blood cells, pass through, dumping their often mutilated cargo of human debris. In many ways I believe he softened the blow in his descriptions of finding the body of man in a septic tank where it had been for over a decade or that of three murdered drug dealers near a golf course who had been executed by fellow criminals then unceremoniously tossed into a pit to be buried. Mere words cannot describe these gruesome atrocities, but he makes it clear that while it doesn't bother him anymore, it does turn even the hardest cop green with nausea.<br /> His affinity with tools, since they are so often used as murder weapons, has led him to collect quite an assortment of hatchets, crow bars, hammers, saws-and could often be found in the hardware department at Sears looking at tools, trying to find the right one that matches the damaged bone. His expertise in this field enabled him to study John Merrick's remains-the Elephant Man of the 19th century, and even to Russia where he examined the skeletonized remains of Tsar Nicholas and his family, almost seventy years after they were murdered by Bolsheviks during the 1917 revolution. All of this experience-almost forty years before his death in 1999, has set Maples in his ways. He possesses a strong, passionate belief that there is true evil in the world, and that somehow the world is better off without certain murderers around. Though this is tempered by his own research into the most humane ways to execute someone.<br /> `Dead Men Do Tell Tales' is a fascinating, enjoyable read-captivating in its insights in forensic pathology and anthropology in a language that everyone can understand. It gives the novice reader in the field a general understanding of the chemical changes our bodies go through as they decompose, the organs and other bodily system are rendered down in the earth-by insects and animals, and how evidence is gleaned off bones-chisel marks, bullet holes, little nicks and scratches that can tell the investigator what tool was used, and a little insight from Maples' point of view of the people who used them. It is a fascinating, engrossing book that anyone with a reasonably strong stomach should be able to enjoy. A fitting testimony to a highly skilled man who is sadly no longer with us. Thank you, Dr. Maples.	2000-12-29
US	50720428	R2XJ3U5RXR2ZR9	038547802X	359819030	The Rants	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Ranting Again	Dennis Miller will always remain one of the five funniest comedians in my  books. Along with Denis Leary, Robin Williams, George Carlin, and Eddie  Murphy, have made living in the last 20 years of the 20th century almost  tolerable. Almost. I don't want to get off an on rant here, but have you  seen the state of the modern comedy these days? An associate of mine  admitted that he frankly enjoys the banal, mindless gags that pass for  humor in an Adam Sandler flick! Jim Carey hasn't been funny since `In  Living Color' and Matt Stone and Trey Parker since `Cannibal: The  Musical'.<br /> Dennis Miller makes me laugh, his rants are among some of  the most original stuff to come around in a long time. Like Carlin, he  peppers his staccato-like speeches with witty and often contemporary jibes  at the system, but where Carlin tends to be more general, Miller names  names. Miller preaches moderation, common sense, compassion, but also wants  you to use that two-stroke weed whacker engine you call a brain for more  than just watching `Who Wants to be a Millionaire' or trying to assemble  the tiger puzzle found inside a box of Frosted Flakes. Dennis Miller: The  Rants is a good way do just that.<br /> Miller attacks the O.J. trial for  what it was, goes hunting Republicans, the legal system, the religious  right and drags them out into the harsh unfeeling glare of public sentiment  and holds them up for to examine and laugh at. I think Miller speaks from  the heart and he really does feel this way about a lot of things he rants  on. Admittedly the audio tapes of the rants are better than book, hearing  him say them is obviously better than just reading them, but the book  allows easier reference for quotes so you can make pithy comments in your  e-mails. You can also catch Miller's rants on his hit TV show `Dennis  Miller Live'. Have fun with it, that's what it's there for.	2000-09-07
US	50720428	R2530DGLS8JJPK	038547802X	359819030	The Rants	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Ranting Again	Dennis Miller will always remain one of the five funniest comedians in my  books. Along with Denis Leary, Robin Williams, George Carlin, and Eddie  Murphy, have made living in the last 20 years of the 20th century almost  tolerable. Almost. I don't want to get off an on rant here, but have you  seen the state of the modern comedy these days? An associate of mine  admitted that he frankly enjoys the banal, mindless gags that pass for  humor in an Adam Sandler flick! Jim Carey hasn't been funny since `In  Living Color' and Matt Stone and Trey Parker since `Cannibal: The  Musical'.<br /> Dennis Miller makes me laugh, his rants are among some of  the most original stuff to come around in a long time. Like Carlin, he  peppers his staccato-like speeches with witty and often contemporary jibes  at the system, but where Carlin tends to be more general, Miller names  names. Miller preaches moderation, common sense, compassion, but also wants  you to use that two-stroke weed whacker engine you call a brain for more  than just watching `Who Wants to be a Millionaire' or trying to assemble  the tiger puzzle found inside a box of Frosted Flakes. Dennis Miller: The  Rants is a good way do just that.<br /> Miller attacks the O.J. trial for  what it was, goes hunting Republicans, the legal system, the religious  right and drags them out into the harsh unfeeling glare of public sentiment  and holds them up for to examine and laugh at. I think Miller speaks from  the heart and he really does feel this way about a lot of things he rants  on. Admittedly the audio tapes of the rants are better than book, hearing  him say them is obviously better than just reading them, but the book  allows easier reference for quotes so you can make pithy comments in your  e-mails. You can also catch Miller's rants on his hit TV show `Dennis  Miller Live'. Have fun with it, that's what it's there for.	2000-09-07
US	50720428	R3TWZOG4POISLJ	0553568019	891099578	Rogue Squadron (Star Wars: X-Wing Series, Book 1)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	I Have Come Home	I new ever since I read `I, Jedi' that I would eventually read the Rogue Squadron series after I got over my prejudice that they were simply  military SF on the same level as David Drake's vaunted Hammer Slammer  books, happily I was wrong. Like most of Stackpole's works, I slipped into  this like a comfortable pair of shoes. The first book of the series is  simply entitled `X-Wing Rogue Squadron' and takes place about three years  after the fall of the Empire at the Battle of Endor. However, the Rebel  Alliance is not out of the woods yet as there are still hundreds of  systems, especially the Core Worlds, still under direct Imperial control,  which usually means Star Destroyers and TIE fighters. Recognizing this  threat, Admiral Ackbar decides that it would time for a little propaganda  in the form of what has become the most famous starfighter in the galaxy:  the Incom T-65b X-Wing, and be piloted by the squadron formed by Luke  Skywalker and Wedge Antilles after the battle of Yavin, Rogue Squadron.<br />  Wedge now leads the squadron and has spent the past while assembling the  best of the best to be in the new Rogue Squadron. Enter Corran Horn, a  young Corellian Security agent who left his homeworld to join the  Rebellion. Next is Captain Tycho Celchu, a former Imperial pilot who  defected after his homeworld of Alderaan was destroyed by the first Death  Star. Alliance command doesn't like Celchu, forcing him to be escorted  everywhere by armed guards and fly craft without weapons and armed with  destruct mechanisms. Also added to the squadron are Ooryl Qrygg, a  insectoid Gand; Nawara Ven, a male Twi'lek and former lawyer; Rhysati Ynr  from Bespin; Bror Jace of the bacta cartel on Thyferra; Erisi Dlarit, who  is from a competing family on Thyferra; Peshk Vri'Syk, a Bothan; Gavin  Darklighter, cousin of Biggs and youngest member of the squadron at  sixteen; Riv Shiel, a Shistavaenen wolfman with an Imperial death mark on  his head; Lujayne Forge, a beautiful woman from Kessel; and finally  Andoorni Hui, a Rodian.<br /> Rogue Squadron is filled with terrific  action that Stackpole has become famous for, basing a lot of the combat on  the popular X-wing &amp; TIE fighter games by LucasArts, and giving the  reader a wonderful feel for starfighter combat. Stackpole conveys through  his characters great emotion, especially through his alter ego and my  personal favorite character, Corran Horn, who is the star of the series.  Corran is also beginning to notice that he is privy to a much greater  universe, and his relation to the Force may be greater than he ever knew.  Wedge meanwhile must come to terms with ghosts from his past, while keeping  the new Rogue Squadron from ending up like Jek Porkins or Biggs Darklighter  who died at the Battle of Yavin. Wedge's attempt to distance himself from  the rest of squadron fails, even after they start dying.<br /> I'm sorry I  never read these sooner, for they are excellent light reading and great  fun! Rogue Squadron is peppered with great action, and some genuinely  interesting and likeable characters. And, Star Wars finally gets some sex  appeal as Corran Horn might be the first character to notice girls. Plus  the book introduces the honestly creepy and decidedly evil Yssane Isard,  who reminds me of a more vicious Emma Frost, and just as cold. She is a  woman of beautiful countenance, but who can freeze a man's soul with a  glance, earning her the name of Iceheart by allies and enemies alike.<br />The  Force will be with you, always.	2000-08-14
US	50720428	R3SGF8MIKE9RHP	0345428609	902573050	Agents of Chaos I: Hero's Trial (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 4)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Hot and Cold (3½ Stars)	I really enjoyed a great many things about this book, not least of which is the fact that it revolves around Han Solo, but delves substantially into  his more emotional side. It also seeks to resolve certain elements within  the escalating conflict between the New Public and the Yuuzhan Vong.  However, James Lucerno's chaotic writing style makes events hard to grasp  insofar as actual resolution is concerned. This hampers an already  convoluted plot by the Yuuzhan Vong to infiltrate an assassin into the New  Republic so that they can murder as many Jedi as possible with a poisonous  virus carried within the lungs of the assassin.<br /> It also lays  Chewbacca to rest in a private ceremony on his homeworld of Kashyyyk, and  Lucnerno thankfully had the good sense not to have Chewie's relatives  assume the life debt, even though it was suggested. Han skillfully manages  to avoid having another Wookie as a first mate, since that would have  diminished Chewie's death greatly. Instead, Han must come to grips with  Chewbacca's death by himself and in his own fashion, which usually means  periods of brooding introspection and occasional verbal attacks on family  members, including Luke, Leia, and Anakin, who bears the brunt of Han's  wrath while the lad must come to terms with the guilt he feels over  Chewie's death, and his father's accusations that he left Chewie to die.<br />  The Vong fake an attack on a New Republic ship and sacrifice a vessel so  that an escape pod bearing the priestess, Elan and her bizarre avian  companion, a Fosh named Vergere. Beforehand, however, they connive a plan  whereby Elan ingests a virus that will collect in her lungs and incubate  until she is brought before the Jedi with vital information about Mara's  illness. Then she exhales the virus which quickly multiplies and  immediately causes hemorrhaging and an agonizing death. The reader steadily  becomes suspicious of Vergere until it is revealed that she is actually  from a region of the galaxy near the Corporate Sector. Doubly so when Elan  wonders if the Yuuzhan Vong will ever come to master the Force, and Vergere  states that the Vong aren't really worthy of it.<br /> A rather amusing  chain of events ensues as a band of traitorous humans known as the Peace  Brigade learn that Elan is in New Republic hands, but isn't aware that it  is a plot by the Vong. The Peace Brigade is a band of traitors who have  sold out to the Vong, and believing they will be rewarded for the return of  one of their own, hatch a plan to capture Elan. In the Ord Mantell system,  Han meets up with Big Bunji, from the old Han Solo books, just as the  Yuuzhan Vong attack. Things turn inane when the Vong attack a space station  known as Jubilee Wheel with a giant elephant trunk that begins vacuuming  people out of the station! However, that aside, the ensuing dialog between  Han and a Ryn named Droma escalates into a rousing series one-liners that  had me laughing out loud. Escaping the Jubilee Wheel, Han and Droma board  the Queen of Empire, a passenger liner ferrying refugees Coreward.<br />  It becomes pretty obvious that Han has found a new first mate in the  pleasantly goofy Ryn, Droma. I found however that Lucerno's writing style  isn't well suited to depicting the Yuuzhan Vong. As Stackpole and Salvatore  have done in the past with the aliens, Lucerno's Yuuzhan Vong have very  little menace to them. Nom Anor is reduced to being little more than a  toady, gone is the malevolence that he displayed so wonderfully in `Vector  Prime'. Plus Lucerno lacks Stackpole's ability to write space combat  sequences. Whereas `I, Jedi'; `Onslaught'; and `Ruin' gave the reader vivid  accounts of X-wings having it out with coralskippers, complete with pilots'  input and battle chatter, Lucerno's battles are more sterile and come  across as if viewed from a distance or dispassionately. There are too few  cameos, except from characters like Kyp Durron and Wurth Skidder.<br />  All in all not a bad go, but something of let down after the first three  books. I only hope 'Agents of Chaos II: Jedi Eclipse' has a little more  focus to it. On the up side Lucerno does portray Han Solo very well, and  seems more like his old `Stars' End' self rather than an aging space  pirate. My other hopes is that the series doesn't wimp out with its  conclusion by trumping up some silly deus ex machina ending, but instead  something with vastly more grit and mettle to it. We're not reading Star  Trek here, because Star Wars gas always been something better.<br />May the  Force be with you.	2000-08-09
US	50720428	R124523COCJDXX	0345428560	820833256	Dark Tide II: Ruin (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 3)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Paint It Black (Read it, you'll understand)	After reading `Onslaught' I eagerly sought out the sequel to the new Dark Tide series, `Ruin', by Michael A. Stackpole. I must admit that I am fast becoming a big fan of his work and plan to read not only his other Star  Wars novels, but his Battletech and fantasy works as well. Also, in keeping  with his own comments, I will endeavor to purchase as many of these books  new, rather than resort to buying used. I think one of the reasons why I  like Stackpole's work so much is that it reminds of my own writing, though  he is published and I am not so that might go some way to explain a few  things on quality and content. He is an excellent story teller and  understands the Star Wars universe, and his vision seems to match my  own.<br /> `Ruin' follows the events of the New Republic as they  desperately attempt to fight of a growing invasion from the Yuuzhan Vong,  an extra galactic race of religious zealots who are on a bloody pogrom to  wrest the galaxy from the hands of machine using infidels. `Ruin' reveals  that there undercurrents within the Yuuzhan Vong forces that may point  other reasons for this well, but they are not revealed. They are a race of  evil beings bent on slaughter, even though they are aware that the two  cultures are vastly different, but despite this they continue onward in a  crusade across the galaxy led by Shedao Shai, the sadistic leader of the  Yuuzhan Vong forces who is very rapidly developing a hate for Corran  Horn.<br /> Shai views the killing of his kin on Bimmiel by Horn and  fellow Jedi, Ganner Rhysode as murder while at the same time he is visited  by New Republic Camassi ambassador, Elakos, who wishes to sue for peace or  at least a truce. Shai agrees to the Camassi's request to learn from each  other, so he immediately introduces Elakos to the Embrace of Pain, a  torture device used by the Yuuzhan Vong, almost as form of entertainment.  Meanwhile, Admiral Treast Kre'fey and Rogue Squadron aboard the New  Republic warship Ralroostraces into Imperial controlled space to ask for  reenforcements from now Grand Admiral Gilad Paelleon, which the Republic  gets, with a little added surprise.<br /> The next planet in the path of  the advancing Yuuzhan Vong onslaught is the beautiful jungle world of  Ithor, and both the New Republic and Imperial Remnant have arrived to stem  the tide long enough to evacuate the peaceful Ithorians (the hammerhead  guys from the cantina sequence in episode 4). Shai learns that the skeleton  of one of his kin who had been doing recon 50 years previous has been found  by Corran Horn, and so in order to illustrate to Mr. Horn the dishonor he  has done by not properly adhering to Yuuzhan Vong tradition and prepared  the bones properly, sends the Jedi grisly present. This is nothing compared  to the `Ruin' the Yuuzhan Vong cause, which is eventually heaped on to  Horn's shoulders by Borsk Fey'lya.<br /> This book is very solid, and  allows for a great deal of growth in who I think the main characters  are-Jacen and Jaina Solo, and their younger brother, Anakin. All three  really shine as they discover some pleasant and not-so-pleasant facts about  life. Stackpole peppers the book with his blisteringly good action  sequences, but also shines on the emotional end of story telling as well.  Luke Skywalker, Mara Jade, and other characters come to life once again in  `Ruin' which will probably be Mr. Stackpole's last Star Wars novel, at  least for a little while. I enjoyed this book immensely, it's ending is a  bit of a gut wrencher, but whoever said war is pretty?<br /> May the Force  be with you, always.	2000-07-26
US	50720428	R20OWCOZL7U9WI	0804111642	74428084	The Killer Department	Books	4	49	50	N	N	Where have all the children gone?	Pick up a deck of playing cards and count them. Put them down and know for a fact that this is how many people Andrei Chikatilo murdered between 1978 and 1990 before he was caught. It was a case that baffled Soviet police for  over a decade, almost never solved thanks to the constrictive Soviet system  that would never allow such knowledge of a `serial killer' to be known or  addressed. The bureaucrats forbid the publication of the murders to alert  the public, and one by one their children disappeared. `Citizen X' will  convince you that true evil can and does exist, often in the worst possible  places.<br /> In Russia, children are taught to respect and trust grownups  to the point where it becomes second nature to them, and it is this fact  that enabled Chikatilo to lure so many girls and boys, even young women,  with promises of alcohol, cigarettes and candy, away from prying eyes. In  the seclusion of the forests around the Rostov and Shakty Oblasts, he would  rape and mutilate them, often biting off portions in order to achieve  release. It became known later that he had been impotent for years, but the  grisly sight of his work allowed him to achieve some sort of sexual  satisfaction. Cullen's interview before his execution has enabled the  author to enlighten us to Chikatilo's activities during the murders.<br />  `Citizen X' was a name penned by a psychologist who profiled Chikatilo,  something unheard of in the Soviet Union, and enabled investigators to  construct a pattern of events around the killer. It is a testament to the  dedication of the police who worked on the case, often to exclusion of all  else, including their health that Chikatilo was ever caught at all. Most  notably is the man who spearheaded the case since day one, Viktor Burakov,  and a more dedicated police officer has never existed. His determination,  and his ability as a careful and analytical thinker enabled him to  eventually piece together Chikatilo's patterns until his arrest. And while  he was tried for fifty-two murders, the actual count may go as high as a  hundred.<br /> Chikatilo himself was a diseased monster, incompetent at  life, for though he was trained as a school teacher, he had been fired for  sexually assaulting a young girl around 1976. He worked odd jobs until he  found steady work at a train plant in Rostov. Cullen's book assembles all  of it in stunning detail that draws the reader in until they are silently  urging Burakov onward to solving the case. It is fortunate then that  Chikatilo was caught and in late 1990 they put a bullet into his  misbegotten brain.d while  he was tried for fifty-two murders, the actual count may go as high as a  hundred.<br /> Chikatilo himself was a diseased monster, incompetent at  life, for though he was trained as a school teacher, he had been fired for  sexually assaulting a young girl around 1976. He worked odd jobs until he  found steady work at a train plant in Rostov. Cullen's book assembles all  of it in stunning detail that draws the reader in until they are silently  urging Burakov onward to solving the case. It is fortunate then that  Chikatilo was caught and in late 1990 they put a bullet into his  misbegotten brain.	2000-07-23
US	50720428	R40WMC4YH7EDB	0312868855	396467465	Hell House	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Things that go BUMP in the night, day, and whenever it wants	After reading Matheson's unforgettable `I Am Legend' I endeavored to find a copy of his likely more famous `Hell House' and upon doing so tore through it in a day. Well, if you can call a `day' being finished it at  seven in the morning, good thing I work nights. I must admit that I do not  read enough of the horror genre to know what is and is not predictable, and  while others said the ending was I confess to not having seen it coming.  Matheson's text reads like prose and glides easily from page to page  without burying the reader in superfluous detail, giving the right amount  so the reader has some bearing on where they are.<br /> The story entails  the wishes of dying man who wishes to know if there are indeed ghosts, and  to those ends has purchased the grand bull mouse of haunted mansions,  Belasco House, in Maine and has sent in a team of investigators to verify  the existence of haunts. He chooses Lionel Barret, a physicist and  scientist who has built a device capable of negating the EM radiation  produced by spooks, his wife, Edith, a Christian minister and medium,  Florence Tanner, and the only surviving member of the 1940 expedition into  the house, Benjamin Fischer, who is also a medium. A medium us a person who  is sensitive to super natural events like hauntings and can open themselves  up to them.<br /> Arriving at the house through thick fog they find that  all of the windows have been bricked up while the mansion itself rises like  some terrible monolith before them. Events begin to unfold as they hold  their first sitting and Florence opens herself up to the house where she  makes contact with one of the former residence, an Indian named Red Cloud,  but is soon interrupted by another spirit who claims that if they do not  leave it will be forced to kill them. While startled, they are largely  unfazed and proceed with other forms of paranormal research such as  Tanner's ability to control extoplasm, a substance believed to be  associated with ghosts. And later explained by Dr. Barret as simply a  manifestation of Tanner's own self, composed mostly of detritus from her  own body.<br /> The story follows through with some genuinely creepy  moments, but it is all standard haunted house fair, just exceptionally  powerful occurrences. Fischer relates the history of Belasco house and how  it was built by Emeric Belasco as a sort of standing experiment in every  conceivable form debauchery until the tenants had been so corrupted that  they eventually turned to cannibalism in order to stay alive. All the while  Belasco quietly watched and encouraged the use of drugs, alcohol, even  bringing in young artists from around the world to study and create there  until they corrupted by the vile happenings. Barret and company even  witness some of the more brutal happenings by way of visions. Truly a house  of the dammed.<br /> The house is literally a juggernaught of haunts-one  that destroys Tanner slowly through convincing her that Belasco had a son,  Daniel, who was swallowed whole by the house. Tanner believes that Daniel's  spirit is in a constant state of torment and can only find true rest if he  is given proper burial after she is led to his body which has been hung in  between the walls of the wine cellar. But everything they try fails, even  Barret's machine fails, much to his dismay. The power of the house seems  unlimited. Everything else you will have to find out for yourself.<br />  The flavor of the book will be familiar to anyone who has played Call of  Cthulhu, because it has that same sort of feel. The characters are  interesting and believable, but Hell House perhaps takes itself too  seriously, lacking even dark or ironic humor to any extent. I would have  also preferred a larger team, say six or even eight people for the house to  play with rather than four. It would have given a more varied forms of  terror. It will also offend you if you have strong religious beliefs, but  other than that Hell Houseis a pretty good read.	2000-07-20
US	50720428	R4ZKTE9FCC9DW	0553578731	253987847	Star Wars: I, Jedi	Books	5	10	15	N	N	Corran Horn, Jedi Knight	I liked this book for a number of reasons. First, it's written well in the first person, which is sometimes hard to do. Second, it centers on a character who wasn't in the movies, former X-Wing pilot, Corran Horn. And  this is probably the big reason why I went through this book so quickly,  Star Wars is suffering from this sort of malaise that has crept into it  whereby the only stories we get are about the primary characters. It was  very refreshing to have a new character to explore with, what is more,  Corran Horn, while larger than life and heroic, is still very human and  ultimately likeable. I must admit that I was ignorant of the fact that he  was basically one of the stars of the X-Wings, most of which were written  by Stackpole, though I will read those as well.<br /> `I, Jedi' deals with  just what it means to actually become a Jedi. Barring Lucas' foolishness  of, unless you're a newborn, you're just too old to become a Jedi,  Stackpole does an excellent job of chronicling not only Horn's stint at the  Jedi Academy on Yavin IV, but the problems he encounters- both moral and  physical. Mr. Horn is a married man, and yet he is deeply attracted to a  female Jedi trainee by the name of Tionne, and must reconcile his feelings  for her while remembering that it is because of his wife, (Mirax), that he  is finally undergoing the training. It is also revealed that he has no  aptitude for telekinesis, and thus cannot hurl objects or leap great  distances. Stackpole constructs an elegant training program that tests Luke  Skywalker's students. He also brings up what appear to be the author's own  opinions on what it takes to be a Jedi.<br /> Corran Horn has come to  Yavin to complete his Jedi training under Luke Skywalker to better aid him  in his search for his wife, Mirax, who has gone missing while she was  looking for rare artifacts to purchase. I was very pleased to find a male  character who was so completely in love with his wife that he was willing  to undergo a very dramatic transformation just for her. And still human  enough to get the serious warmies for Tionne, the beautiful elf-like  Padawan-learner. Like a child Corran questions everything, even Skywalker,  and while the two are close friends it is obvious that Horn doesn't agree  with the way Luke is leading the academy, but has the courage to tell Luke  this then draw him into discussions on how to change things.<br /> There  are several cameos by the main characters, even Star Wars fandom's beloved  Mara Jade, whom as I have said elsewhere, is handled by Stackpole  marvelously. As well, Stackpole finally gives Luke Skywalker his due - in  the Zhan novels, Luke really was a wimp, he couldn't even take a clone of  himself let alone the clone of an 80 year old man. In `I, Jedi' Corran sees  just how competent the Jedi Master is in a fight with six Dark Force  Adepts, all armed with lightsabers. This book pleased me to no end and I  plan to read it again. I was hoping the Corran Horn would become the next  hero for the Star Wars universe, but unfortunately the time line marches on  and by `The New Jedi Order', he's obviously old guard and on the way out.  Too bad, the New Republic could use more heroes like him.	2000-07-10
US	50720428	RZY9DAMTY8IC3	0345428544	573865480	Dark Tide I: Onslaught (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 2)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	The Force Is Back!	Oh, yes! Another great Star Wars novel and considering how few there have been it makes me glad to be a fan. I can't for the life of me figure out why quatrewinner why he thought `I, Jedi' was disastrous, I personally  thought it was another of those few really good Star Wars novels. Stackpole  certainly puts a lot more thought into his characterization than Zahn does,  but more importantly he handles the characters intelligently and logically.  Stackpole's Mara Jade seems more alive, more vibrant than Zahn's, and he  created her. Plus he doesn't focus on the primary characters of Luke, Han  and Leia- in fact, except for one scene, Han Solo isn't even in `Onslaght'.  Also, Stackpole doesn't fall back on Zahn's ridiculous plots. (Flim? Excuse  me?)<br /> `Onslaught' is the second book of the Dark Tide series of the  New Jedi Order, set 25 years after `A New Hope' the Jedi have been making a  come back and by this time there are nearly a hundred of them. Stackpole  makes no mention of midi-chlorians, and I think we can all be grateful for  that, in fact he makes no mention the `Phantom Menace' at all except for a  podrace reference. In a nutshell `Onslaught' picks up with Leia addressing  the Senate to inform the of a new threat to the fragile New Republic, and  this threat is known as the Yuuzhan Vong, a race of humanoids who appear to  extra-galactic origin and bent on invading the New Republic. Leia is  rebuked and humiliated by Senators, including Borsk Fey'lya who denies even  that there is a problem. With the aid of her Caamasi friend, Elegos A'Kla  convince the Senate to allow them to proceed with a fact finding mission to  back up their claims, aware that Fey'lya continues to maneuver to discredit  the Jedi who are blamed for the disastrous first contact.<br /> There is  little doubt in my mind that Yuuzhan (Zhan? ) Vong are evil, and through  out `Onslaught' they are depicted brutalizing their captives, even to the  point where they murder them for recreation. Since the Yuuzhan Vong loath  mechanical technology, they rely on entirely organic devices, including a  rack-like device known as the `Embrace of Pain', which keeps the captive in  a constant state of pain while strapped to it. Additionally, the Yuuzhan  Vong are very tough-physically stronger and faster than humans, they wear  living armor that can turn lightsabers and carry weapons known as  amphistaff-a living sword that can inject venom and even parry a  lightsaber, indeed it would appear the only ones who can stand up to a  Yuuzhan Vong warrior is Jedi. It also doesn't help that the Vong cannot be  sensed by the Force, something that makes their actions difficult to  predict.<br /> Leia's fact-finding mission turns out be a retreat as she  an her allies are forced to evacuate a planet of civilians and ferry them  to Dantooine, all the while being harried by Yuuzhan Vong forces. On  Dantooine, 14 year old Anakin Solo must look after his Aunt, Mara  Jade-Skywalker as she recovers from a disease that the heroes believe was  instituted by the Yuuzhan Vong. These sequences are among my favorites  because it clearly shows Mara's more caring nature as she educates her  young nephew to rely less on the Force and more on himself. I didn't want  to think about the other books that had the Jedi kids in them, but I was  pleased with all three of them for my first exposure and anyone who can  convincingly have a 14 year old slaying Yuuzhan Vong soldiers and not have  it appear ghoulish is doing a good job in story telling.<br /> While the  book doesn't end on a cliffhanger, it could best be described as  inconclusive. The Prologue where we actually get to see things from the  Yuuzhan Vong perspective was predictable, except it cements into the  reader's mind that these creatures are capital `E' Evil, which of course  means they can be killed without remorse, since not to do so would be  suicide. Mind you, they did come off a bit like Klingons, but even that  wasn't enough to ruin this book. While not nearly as intricate as `I,  Jedi', `Onslaught' is a very good, fast read. Stackpole writes rings around  Zhan in so many ways, handling characters he created better than he did. I  can't wait for the next novel in the series, because things in the Star  Wars universe were starting to get a little dull.	2000-07-10
US	50720428	R13LFM96LI9SKV	081181498X	953704027	Star Wars Chronicles	Books	5	16	18	N	N	I Have A Very Good Feeling About This!	I think that I now have all of the truly `big' Star Wars books - I have all of the `Art Of' and `Makings Of' books there are, and the two Industrial Light and Magic hard covers. And now, thanks to the most  wonderful woman in the world, I have the Star Wars Chronicles. The enormity  of the book is overwhelming, and the fact that it comes in its own black  and gold box with a magnetic clasp seems to spotlight the quality  representative in its contents.<br /> In other words:<br /> WOW!<br />  This book does not disappoint in any way, mostly though it's an expansive  overview of models, vehicles, props and sets used in the three movies, the  forgettable Ewok TV show abominations, and the Star Tours attraction at the  Team Rodent theme parks in California and Florida. The book really shines  especially in the rarity of a lot of the photos, about half of which have  never been seen all that much, whereas several books in a similar vein  simply reprint the same pictures over and over. Chronicles instead goes for  originality by showcasing the more rare pictures. It has wonderful gate  fold pages and ship scale comparison sheets, and it takes the reader from  the design stage of a particular ship right on through to the finished  model.<br /> The Star Wars movies have always been the best there is as  far as special effects go, (well, the best there is as far as anything is  concerned, but I'm biased). From model makers to set and prop designers,  few films approach that level of detail, and if they do it's because their  effects were also done by ILM. Even though the Phantom Menace wasn't as  worthy of the Star Wars name as the other films, no one can argue the  quality of the production. The Phantom Menace isn't featured in the Star  Wars Chronicles, and I hope they don't add it to a later edition, because  this book is big enough as it is.<br /> Is it worth the money? Take it  from me, if you love Star Wars on as primal a level as I do, and are as   fascinated by whatgoes on behind the camera as in front of it, it is. It  may have been a gift, but I would have bought it eventually. The fact it  was a gift just makes it even more special. Like the lady who sent it to  me, it is now priceless.	2000-06-28
US	50720428	RX57HSPTGG9H7	1565042492	606035769	Vampire: The Masquerade	Books	1	12	59	N	N	Vampire: The Game For The Prentious	Do we really need a role playing game where the players get to portray poetry spouting eurotrash losers that all dropped out of an Anne Rice novel? I can be jerk enough in real life without having to role play one in  a game, thanks! Do we really need a game that has inspired such  dysfunctions as LARPing? Hell no! For those ignorant of this freak show,  Larping, to the Masquerade crowd, stands for Live Action Role Playing...or  as I see it, Losers And Rejects Performing. If you spot a bunch of  20-somethings in period clothes and lots of black wandering around the  streets at 3 AM, they aren't coming from a costume party, they're Larping  and no doubt on a special mission for their master vampire.<br /> As for  those who insist that Vampire focuses on characterization and story, just  what the heck have the rest of us been doing playing all of these other  games, picking our noses? Apparently so. This is such pretentious garbage,  it's like the only real role players out there are Vampire players. Believe  me, I haven't spent almost 20 years role playing and not figured out how to  create good stories and complex characters. So don't let these black  eye-liner wearing, LeStat worshiping pseudo-goths intimidate you.<br />  Vampire: The Masquerade lets you play a vampire, and you get to caper  around with all your vampire buddies, and make sure that humanity has no  idea you're there. This doesn't seem feasible as there are dozens of  vampire clans, all with their own special vampire abilities. Some aren't  affected by running water or crosses or garlic, but they are all so  woefully melodramatic that it makes 30's film noir piece look like a trip  through Disney Land. It is also a good way for youths to get together and  play more angst ridden and disturbed individuals than they actually are.  Vampire: The Masquerade players also turn their noses up at every other  role playing game out there, as if their's is somehow superior. For my  money (and potentially yours),it isn't. Stay away from this at all costs  and if you must play gothic horror, then go watch The Crow and play Call of  Cthulhu.	2000-06-27
US	50720428	R30B59U3TFJZAQ	0345322630	385930640	Industrial Light & Magic:  The Art of Special Effects	Books	5	21	24	N	N	Behind the Scenes, Behind the Magic	No one would ever have guessed that when Industrial Light &amp; Magic opened its doors in Maren County that day way back in 1975 that they would produce the standard by which other special effects and other effects  houses would be judged. ILM has formed the cornerstone of LucasFilm Ltd. a  company that has spawned more spin-offs such as THX Sound, Skywalker Sound,  all held neatly under the Lucas Digitial banner. Back in the days of Star  Wars it was mostly using what was already known, and inventing everything  else. ILM has been at the forefront ever since, from the early days of  motion control cameras controlled by Apple computers the latest CG marvel  like Galaxy Quest, Phantom Menace or Mission to Mars.<br /> The Art of  Special Effects deals more with the older films-those before 1986,  illustrating a time when computers were not so large a part in the  film-making process. It gives the reader a great look at the sheer amount  of detail that went into the models, the props, costumes from Star Wars to  Explorers, from Raiders of the Lost Ark to the some of the Star Trek films,  ILM constantly and consistently proven to innovative. The book as a whole  is on a level lower than, say, Cinefex magazine, assuming that the reader  doesn't know how blue screening and rotoscoping works or how miniatures are  lensed. It is light reading without getting itself bogged down in too much  technicality, for those who want that, read Cinefex.<br /> It also strikes  me that this book is also best at presenting a dying era. A time when model  makers kit bashed hundreds of plastic models just to build a Super Star  Destroyer - few companies bother with that any more when everything can be  rendered on a Silicon Graphics box and Maya and Soft Image software. Such  films as Star Trek: Insurrection used few practical models and a completely  CG Enterprise-E. The time of the supremely detailed, hand crafted model or  set may be at an end, and I think the industry will be sadder forit.  Partially because when I read Cinefex, a lot of what I see is the  same-different movie, different space ship, but they're all rendered the  same way and most use the same software, with only minor modifications or  original code going into it to get a certain look or solve a certain  problem.<br /> I suspect the Digital Realm of the movies, while producing  better special effects, lacks the mystique of knowing that several people  labored for months to build that model. That instead it was modeled by a  few people over a period of a week. (Though it should be noted that a lot  of films, including the Phantom Menace, used practical models). I suspect  their days are number.	2000-06-15
US	50720428	REMXG6BPWR3KL	0345381521	874073886	Industrial Light & Magic: Into the Digital Realm	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The Future of the Magic	For 25 years Industrial Light and Magic has woven magic into countless films, either subtle images through `invisible' effects such as matte paintings or through eye-popping visuals that stand out vividly against the film backdrop. ILM has made it's mark on history, for not only have they  been and still are the premiere effects house in Hollywood, they have  innovated and invented more technology than any other studio, additionally  they have won awards for the processing and compositing technology they  have created. ILM had to be the best at special effects, because their  flagship title - STAR WARS - demanded the best, because that's what Lucas  wanted.<br /> `Into the Digital Realm' isn't so much an abandonment of ILM  of the traditional methods of special effects, rather a point of departure  for the new technology and all of things that led up to it. Indeed, ILM's  work on `The Hunt For Red October' submarine work involved flying the  submerged vessels from wires in a smoky room - effects do not get any more  traditional than that. Released in 96, the book doesn't mention that  Phantom Menace or even that the film is in production. It does have some  revised images from the Star Wars special edition. As with the previous  tome, this one is packed with hundreds of color photos, plus the same  beautiful gate fold images.<br /> If the center piece for the previous  book was Star Wars, Digital Realms' focus is obviously Jurassic Park,  because it was the first film to use CG on so large a scale, even more than  Terminator 2, which ILM also did. Jurassic Park was also the test bed and  showcase piece that convinced Lucas that computers had finally matured  enough to bring what he had in mind to the screen for the new Star Wars  films. More is the pity, because I came to loathe most of the aliens in the  Phantom Menace. Digital Realm clearly explains in easy to understand terms  how effects - both new and old - are accomplished, be it something as  simple as makingit appear as if buildings are actually much taller than  they or having a velociraptor walk _behind_ a plant situated in the  foreground. I have both of these wonderful books, and I strongly recommend  them to anyone who is curious about ILM's history and the process of how  effects are made.	2000-06-15
US	50720428	R3FKGKS62QE4SA	0671741454	369224769	Vendetta: The Giant Novel (Star Trek the Next Generation)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	The Book 'First Contact' Should Have Been	Ever since their introduction in Star Trek: The Next Generation, the Borg could have been the Federation's (and everyone else's) ultimate enemy. Technologically advanced, but somehow dead, the Borg would assimilate all  that they found useful, (this undoubtedly also led to inspire Blizzard in  their creation of the Zerg for Starcraft), and destroying the rest. The  Borg, whose massive cube ships roamed space, forever seeking the next race  to absorb and obliterate were unaware of the Federation and all other races  in the Alpha Quadrant until the meddlesome Q hurled the USS-Enterprise into  the Borg's back yard, it should have started an all-out war, but as with  most things Star Trek, the writers fumbled the ball. Something that should  have been impossible to do given the possibilities in the introduction of  such an enemy.<br /> However, salvation can be found in Vendetta, a novel  by Peter David, who as I have said, writes the best Trek novels. David has  such a terrific grip on the Next Generation characters that the reader has  no trouble believing that this is canon and just a really good Next  Generation episode. David also includes a valid reason for the existence of  the Doomsday Machines, as presented in the old series. They had been  created to destroy the Borg, before mankind had ever reached into space.  Makes sense and it tied up a loose end nicely, something Paramount has long  since forgotten how to do. A new planet killer is on the move; and this one  is far more massive, and it's slaughtering Borg with frightening ease. The  death machine is haunted by Delcara, a woman who is suspected to be of the  same species as Guinan, whose race was wiped out by the Borg, and she is on  a path that while it may wipe out the Borg, will cut a path through the  Alpha Quadrant killing millions.<br /> The book is laced with David's  usual observational humor and witty banter between most members of the  Enterprise crew. But he also digs deep, assessing the personal turmoil felt  by Picard as he comes to terms with facing the Borg after being assimilated  by them only months before. Plus we get a wonderful insight into Geordi  LaForge who is at odds with everyone on board the starship when he  struggles to `unassimilate' a captured Borg drone. Vendetta is a wonderful  free for all across the Federation and through the depths of time, because  Picard once new, once loved Delcara and he watches helpless as she is  consumed by the ghosts of the Doomsday Machine into becoming an instrument  of their revenge against the Borg. David even throws in an encounter with  the Tholians, which goes marginally better than the time when Kirk met  them.<br /> The Borg, as created by the Trek writers, should have been the  ultimate enemy, and in Vendetta, they are. But they are ones that can be  destroyed, and not reasoned with as is the usual Trek touchy-feely method  of handling things. The Borg deserve no quarter, no mercy-exactly what they  have shown the countless races they have annihilated over the centuries.  Vendetta goes a long way in showing us what should have been. Instead, we  got `First Contact' and I know which one I like better.	2000-06-04
US	50720428	R36YZOEZQ05A	0671746472	544645304	Strike Zone (Star Trek The Next Generation, No 5)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Lots of Fun	Of the all Star Trek novels I have read, this stands as one of my personal favorites. The other really good ones are also by Peter David, `Vendetta' and `Q-in-Law', the former being the Borg movie they should have made  instead of that piece of trash, First Contact. Strike Zone deals very  simply with the Federation rushing to settle a dispute between the Klingons  and a new race known as the Kreel. For over a century the Kreel have been  nipping at the heels of the Klingons, who see them as parasites. Except now  the Kreel have found a stockpile of fearsome weapons and are now taking it  to the Klingons. The Enterprise is ordered to intercede and act as  mediators between the two waring nations before the rip themselves  apart.<br /> David has an uncanny grasp of the Next Generation characters  and presents them as we enjoy them most. Picard is the stolid no-nonsense  captain, Riker the dashing hero with a quick wit, Data as the often  perplexed android. It also presents Next Generation's least liked  character, Wesley Crusher, in a vulnerable light. Speaking for myself, I  liked the character and it was the writers' fault that Wil Weaten became a  casualty of the series. Strike Zone is decidedly light reading, and rarely  serious. It also does something rare in anything Trek-the characters  change, especially Wesley Crusher, and not the same person they were at the  beginning of the story.	2000-06-03
US	50720428	R302N3XFZYRKBN	0811809722	451973361	From Star Wars to Indiana Jones: The Best of the Lucasfilm Archives	Books	5	4	4	N	N	This is why the franchises are so solid and popular	This book provides the reader with a rare glimpse of a lot of concept art and even model making that ILM produced for the 3 Star Wars and 3 Indiana Jones movies. And unlike, the Art of Star Wars Episode 1 for example, there  is more text than simple art credits, and includes descriptions on how the  different tools (say, matte paintings), are used for effects in the films.  The book also provides an excellent look at ILM's story boards, which are  usually so well drawn that they would make ideal comic books. It has a  beautiful series of pictures of props-from Colt pistols to blasters, from  scimitars to lightsabers, all held together with great informative text by  Mark Gotta Vaz and Shinji Hata. This is one of my favorites.	2000-05-17
US	50720428	R14Y30CDIZG3K2	0345420675	60676393	The Essential Guide to Droids (Star Wars)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Wanna Buy a Used R2 Unit?	I have all of the Essential Guides and have been pleased with all of them to one degree or another. The Essential Guide to Droids, however, is one of the better ones. The author and artists have done their homework in  researching the novels, but for all their work-there are some really silly  designs in here, usually written into novels or whatever, because the  author thought it would be cute, but only comes across as annoying or dumb  (the C2-R4 comes to mind). Other designs have not been well thought out-the  M38 Explorer droid is too tall, it seems logical that if you want an  automated robot for planetary surveys, then something with a lower center  of gravity would be a much better design. I would recommend that everyone  ignore the fact that Anakin made C-3PO and keep his manufacturer as Cybot  Galactica, since that is a little more believable. As always The Essential  Guide to Droids would make an ideal addition to the Star Wars role playing  table as well, and it has a good spread of robots from domestic, industrial  to combat and medical droids. A solid effort with great art work and well  written.	2000-05-16
US	50720428	R2LAULT1WYCJIJ	0345402278	220710965	The Star Wars Encyclopedia	Books	5	0	3	N	N	Solid and Accurate	Have you ever wanted to know where the Glythe Sector is? Or wondered what a M3-D2 droid was for? If you have then I highly recommend the Star Wars Encyclopedia by Stephen J. Sansweet, because it is filled with all things  Star Wars-from movies, novels, comics and TV shows, (Though I suspect I  would have been happier if it had no mention of the Ewoks/Droids cartoons).  This is a high-quality publications and is presented hard cover format,  making it an ideal addition to anyone's Star Wars library. It allows the  reader to see what wonderful consistency that has been built up over the  past 22 years within the universe-something that Star Trek can never boast  about given how everything in that universe is entirely variable. Clear,  easy to read entries are laid out naturally in alphabetical format for easy  location, and it would make an a great tool for role players as well,  making it is easy to find characters, places, vehicles, etc.	2000-05-16
US	50720428	R2N0U3PVG2AOH2	031286504X	486151984	I Am Legend	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Absolutely Stunning!	I AM LEGEND is probably one of the finest books on vampires, those undead and oft nightmarish bloodsuckers of our own creations. However, Matheson presents his vampires as the ultimate human terror, that of a replacement  species for our race. The story follows Robert Neville, the sole survivor  of a biological holocaust that created night stalkers who has turned his  home into a fortress in suburban Los Angeles. During the day he hunts  sleeping vampires, staking them through the heart and barricades himself in  his home at night while they mill about his yard like cadaverous door to  door salesmen, calling his name while the females raise their dresses to  tease and taunt him.<br /> Neville is a beautiful study into the  deterioration of the human mind, aside from the loss of his wife and  daughter that haunts him constantly, he begins to lose his own grip on  humanity. For three years he has lived this life of solitude, but  surrounded by human monsters who, incidentally, do not wear 18th century  regalia, top hats nor do they moan about how much their unlife makes them  do such terrible things. Matheson's vampires are a paradox of life, do not  turn into bats, wolves or mists and haven't an ounce of pretense or angst  found in the likes of Anne Rice's Eurotrash vampires or the found in  Vampire: the Masquerade. Neville has forgotten the sound of his own voice  and much of the common etiquette that we as humans all share.<br />  Matheson's masterful descriptions of the monotony of daily life mingled  with the nagging question of why he just doesn't give himself up to them  permeate the book. He constructs arguments for both sides, and deconstructs  the myth of vampires by producing a wonderful scientific explanation that  Neville learns over a period of a few years, literally by educating himself  at the UCLA libraries. The reader is so aware of the protagonist's torment  and the surging desire for companionship, human or otherwise, that when he  finds the stray dog, we are captivated and pulled along as Neville spends  weeks trying to coax the terrified animal into his home. And, without  giving it away, the ending will knock the reader off of whatever he or she  is sitting on.<br /> Some might see similarities to this and the Chuck  Heston flick, the Omega Man, which was a pale adaptation of the novel into  a typical 1970's dystopian film. For myself I churned through the pages  with a certain eagerness that I never possessed while reading Rice's morose  and trite endeavors in the world of undead. This book soars and packs  emotion into fluid verse that never stalls or loses direction. I Am Legend  fits beautifully with movies such as Blade and John Carpenter's Vampires.dog, we are captivated and pulled along as Neville spends  weeks trying to coax the terrified animal into his home. And, without  giving it away, the ending will knock the reader off of whatever he or she  is sitting on.<br /> Some might see similarities to this and the Chuck  Heston flick, the Omega Man, which was a pale adaptation of the novel into  a typical 1970's dystopian film. For myself I churned through the pages  with a certain eagerness that I never possessed while reading Rice's morose  and trite endeavors in the world of undead. This book soars and packs  emotion into fluid verse that never stalls or loses direction. I Am Legend  fits beautifully with movies such as Blade and John Carpenter's Vampires.	2000-05-15
US	50720428	RL2LXDXNRNYVB	1891620088	893798538	Blind Man's Bluff: The Untold Story Of American Submarine Espionage	Books	5	108	115	N	N	A great read for anyone into submarines or espionage	Imagine if you will that you are onboard a US Navy submarine that has just snuck into Soviet territorial waters to spy on what the other side's navy is doing. From the sonar members of the crew can listen to the screw noise  and learn turn counts that identify different Soviet Naval ships and  submarines that are plying the seas around you. Your submarine-in this case  the USS-Tautog (SSN-639) is here to gather intelligence on Soviet cruise  missile submarines that could pose a threat to US carriers. Your captain,  in this case Commander Buele G. Balderston drove his sub deeper into  Petropavlovsk whereupon they collided with a Soviet Echo-II class attack  boat. This was 1970, the half way point in the Cold War, one of three  accidents that year, and all of them chronicled in Sherry Sontag,  Christopher Drew and Annette Lawrence-Drew's `Blind Man's Bluff-The Untold  Story of American Submarine Espionage'.<br /> While the title may sound  like some cheesy hack banged the book out and filled it with questionable  information, `Blind Man's Bluff' takes the moderate approach, the authors  admitting that sometimes the information is sketchy at times, and speculate  on what probably happened, corroborating information from those directly  involved aids in fleshing out the true stories told within the book. It  details the disastrous first attempt to spy on the Soviets in 1949 when  disaster struck the ill-fated USS-Cochino when one of it's batteries  exploded, leaving the submarine to flounder in sixteen foot swells before  eventually sinking off the coast of Norway. It's crew was rescued by her  sister ship, the USS-Tusk, but not before six crewmen were killed-drowned  in the stormy seas.<br /> The book also talks at some length about Admiral  Hyman G. Rickover, the man who singlehandedly created a nuclear navy for  the United States. It details Rickover as being a power hungry, arrogant  and petty man who made or broke careers as he saw fit, and someone who  demanded toknow about any projects `his' boats were involved with.  Evidence, whether it be technical or personal, is often presented in  anecdotal form, often amusing and always enlightening. It praises the Navy  as often as it chastises it and allows the reader to develop their own  opinions on whether an action was right or wrong.<br /> However, with  regards to the 1968 sinking of the USS-Scorpion, it attacks the  establishment-the Navy and her departments for a cover-up that has gone on  for thirty-two years. When the Scorpion went down, she was in such a sorry  state of repair, that one crewmen had been removed over fears expressed in  letters written to his superiors. However, it wasn't the fact that Scorpion  seemed to be falling apart that caused her to sink, rather a defective  torpedo battery leaking within a torpedo and cooked off the 350 lb HBX  warhead contained within the weapon that caused her to go down. Memos  written from the Naval Undersea Warfare Engineering Center told of the  defective batteries, but were ignored. At first the Navy announced she may  have been sunk by the Soviets, then recounted that in order to deny the  torpedo theory-stating steadfastly that there was no way a weapon could  `cook off' while inside a submarine.<br /> As well the authors attack, and  rightfully so, the CIA for their $500 million boondoggle of the American  public for the Glomar Explorer fiasco-code named Project: Jennifer, the  Glomar Explorer was the CIA's massive ship that was used to hoist an  antiquated Soviet Golf-class diesel electric missile submarine out of  sixteen-thousand feet of water 1,700 miles north-west of Hawaii. The  submarine had sunk, probably due to the same problem that sank the  Cochino-an exploding battery. Suffice it to say that Glomar Explorer  utterly failed to raise the sub more than 3000 feet, at which point the  grapples failed and the Golf fell almost a mile where it shattered to bits  on the ocean floor. This didn't stop the CIA from trying again a year later  in 1975, and succeeded in raising only 20% of the sub-minus the three  nuclear missiles it carried, minus any code books and minus any usable  technology. It was this singular event that led to the CIA being  scrutinized and stripped of much of its vaunted power.<br /> From  submarine delivered wire tapping pods being delivered into Soviet waters to  listen in on undersea telephone cables to Snorkel Patty and her collection  of hundreds of dolphin pins, `Blind Man's Bluff' delivers humor,  excitement, and an easily readable glimpse into the shadowy and very often  murky depths of Navy Intelligence, its operations and its people. The book  is personable and detailed, fulfilling its criteria of being both  informative and entertaining making it a fine addition to anyone's library  who is interested in submarines, the US Navy or espionage in general.	2000-05-01
US	50720428	R2Q1E6A6XOGKMV	0345431081	480192651	The Art of Star Wars, Episode I - The Phantom Menace	Books	4	1	3	N	N	The Future Through the Past	It is hard to think of Star Wars as just a film without wanting to look deeper into what goes on behind the camera, and in this case what is behind the camera is so much larger than a standard movie. Star Wars spawned  industries and new technologies through Lucas' obsession with getting his  vision on to the big screen, but Lucas' visions would be nothing were it  not for the legion of talented concept artists who rendered his thoughts on  to paper, then a model or costume, and now, the computer. Indeed, the art  department of Industrial Light and Magic-Lucas' preeminent special effects  house, has some of the brightest, most imaginative artists working within  the industry today.<br /> For the Phantom Menace Lucas turned to Doug  Chiang to provide much of the design work used within the film, most  notably the ships and vehicles of the Trade Federation and those of the  Naboo. The Art of the Phantom Menace takes us through the evolution of  these designs from concepts to the screen, and in many cases abandoned  ideas were often better than what eventually made it to the screen. Plus,  it is easy to understand why Lucas wanted the Trade Federation army to be  comprised mainly of robots instead of people-it is much more pleasant to  have Jedi hacking the arms, legs and heads off of non-thinking robots than  it would be if they were Stormtroopers or other living soldiers.<br />  While these designs are nice, I found them to be conservative and far less  evocative than the previous host of vehicles in the first three films. A  Naboo N-1 Starfighter resembles a speed boat with port and starboard  engines, garishly painted yellow with chrome accents; it also completely  lacks the impact of an X-Wing with its variable geometry wings and more  utilitarian design. The Queen's cruiser is little more than a silvery US  Air Force SR-71 spy plane. In fact, much of the designs fell flat, whether  it was the Trade Federation battleship-a toroid with a sphere mounted in  the center just isn't as impressive as the fearsome wedge-shaped Star  Destroyer. I however liked the AAT and MTT used by the Federation, the  Armored Attack Tank had a decidedly insectile and alien appearance while  the locomotive inspired Multi-Troop Transport seemed imposing and  powerful.<br /> The pod racers had a beautiful look-like much of the Star  Wars designs, looked functional and well used, unlike the pristine pixie  dust and polish that accompanies the vehicles and sets of Star Trek. I  enjoyed the pod designs immensely and chuckled when I recognized that  Sebulba's pod car was in fact the front end of an A-10 Fairchild with  engines attached on either side of the cockpit. The book takes us through  the evolution of not only vehicles, but also costumes and sets.<br /> The  big advantage Lucas in the Phantom Menace was that many of the sets were  all done with CGI, meaning they were nothing more than blue walls behind  the actors which were then rendered in during post production. Whether they  were full-scale physical sets or CGI, it didn't matter, the background  buildings of Naboo, Coruscant, and Tatooine add so much flavor to the film,  because they are so varied and work well add distinctiveness to each of the  locations through out the film. It also gives us a look at the creatures  seen through out the film, the stages of gungan development from amphibians  to Jar Jar Binks, beasts of burden and the myriad of creatures seen in the  senate chambers, swamps, and deserts.<br /> This book is for those who  like to look beyond the film, to know how a vehicle or creature or building  began as a rough piece of concept art to the finished product. Though as I  said, I wasn't all that thrilled with the vehicle designs, I felt that the  book itself was a worthy addition to my Star Wars library of art and  special effects books. And while there isn't a lot of text to read (always  a downside), the art more than makes up for it.	2000-05-01
US	50720428	R3HJUILMC07Z8Z	078690657X	202911331	Powers & Pantheons (Advanced Dungeons & Dragons: Forgotten Realms, Campaign Expansion/9563)	Books	4	4	10	N	N	Generally a Solid Work	I've always been a big fan of the Forgotten Realms' selection of godly powers with a nice eclectic mix of characters from our own mythology and some generally solid creations of the authors' own. Powers and Pantheons is  a good collection that expands on an already voluminous selection of  deities within the Faerun, and gives the player a very wide choice of gods  to choose from, be they good, evil, or indifferent. My only major gripes  are some of the special abilities the priests get are sometimes too  overpowering. Mostly, though it is the absurdity at the temple of Selune in  Waterdeep. Apparently the goddess gifts her faithful with great big gobs of  glowing white goo that resembles something that Cthulhu my blow out of his  nose. I have visions of this naughty tentacle monster chasing squealing  Selunites around the temple like some goofy Urutskodoji monster. Second is  the moronic assertion that a lich is anything but EVIL! And so ALSO at the  temple of Selune with the glowing goo is an arch lich...who is chaotic  good...who sustains her appearance by life leeching evil creatures...and  this is OKAY with people?  Come on, creatures are CONSIDERED TO BE EVIL  because they life leech other creatures, and a supposedly good aligned  creature doing it to evil creature DOES NOT make it okay.   Other than  that, this is a solid work and a good addition for any DM who wants to add  more religions to his or her campaign and maybe give players some new  choices for faiths. Well worth a look.	2000-03-13
US	50720428	R3IXZITN5CP1JE	0880387793	588575398	The Complete Fighter's Handbook	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Good Book, Good Value	TSR's Complete Book of Fighters is one of rare 'kit books' that will go a long way to enhance any fighter, be they PC or NPC. For the most part the kits themselves aren't well balanced against each other, but on their own  they are quite good and would require a minimum of tweaking to bring them  into line with each other. For example, the Swashbuckler kit is vastly more  powerful than the Peasant Hero kit as far as bonus abilities, skills, etc.  Plus the additional background for non-magical or a fighters only campaign  is interesting. It is a solidly written book with loads of information.	2000-02-28
US	50720428	RNT71SAHUQG5A	1560768347	923741376	Planescape Campaign Setting (Advanced Dungeons & Dragons)	Books	1	10	58	N	N	Planescape...no, Fantasy Cyberpunk...no it's Rifts AD&amp;D...	There is no real way to put this gently, but this campaign setting may actually be worse than Spelljammer. Aside from the fact that that it is peppered with 18th century Londonary street slang, which would be sorta  cool if it were in fact taking place in Londonary in the 18th century.  Planescape offers the player who is tired of slaying Tiamat with their +27  sword of Everything Slaying, a chance to skip across planes as easily as  taking a ship from Suzail to Westgate. They get to stroll across the green  fields of Arvandor (or Arborea or whatever TSR is calling it this week),  have tea and tiffen with Sune then bog off to the 473rd layer of the Abyss  and kick Orcus' teeth down his throat. And apparently, people and creatures  have been doing this forever, and the gods themselves have nothing better  to do than play tour guide from a bunch of 27th level multiclassed  munchkins with too much magic and not enough imagination to create good  adventures in places like the Forgotten Realms. Planescape strips all of  the majesty and mystery away from the Inner &amp; Outer planes, making them  seem as though Disney had set up shop and is selling rides through Selune's  bedroom. Gods and their ilk are meant to be never seen and seldom heard. If  you absolutely MUST plane hop, then I suggest either Rifts or Marvel Super  Heroes RPGs. If your players insist on playing this nonsense, then make  sure the first plane they enter they run into some god who hurls a fireball  at them for 1 billion points of damage and let them save for half. Utter  rubbish!	2000-02-16
US	50720428	R2AH32I48UF11M	0786911956	278793385	The City of Ravens Bluff (AD&D Fantasy Roleplaying, Forgotten Realms Adventure) (Rpga Network Adventure)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Raven's Bluff - Splendid AD&amp;D Setting!	Okay, so I actually like a recent TSR publication, and why not? It is a well written tome filled with skads of detail of a place that has until recently been the purview of the RPGA. Greenwood does an excellent job in  detailing the city-and most importantly, the families of note complete with  histories! Wow! Best of all, it isn't overly replete with characters who  made pacts with every god and major demon lord to get where they are. Aside  from Greenwood's obsession with mages and the fact that there are just too  darn many of them to be found anywhere in the Realms, Raven's Bluff is an  ideal book to base a series of adventures, but I wouldn't run a campaign in  it. It could have done with a better thieves guild, but other than that,  this is well written book, and it's layout and maps are extremely well  done. Well worth the money.	2000-02-16
US	50720428	R2O5VWU3GNO4Q6	0786907614	780929390	Cormanthyr: Empire of the Elves (AD&D Fantasy Roleplaying, Forgotten Realms, Book+Map)	Books	1	1	10	N	N	Cormanthyr - Land of Tolkeen's Silly, Dying Elves	I don't know who at TSR seems to think that elves are little more than slothful, frivolous flakes, but it has permiated every aspect of their product line for a long time. This supplement goes into vast detail about  how elves can't do anything quickly, it takes them years, even centuries of  debate to figure out what to do about a problem; and how they view  themselves as real &quot;People&quot; and everyone else is merely &quot;Not  People&quot;, racism in other words. They also seem to be a very LAWFUL  society for a group that has been, since day 1 of AD&amp;D, listed as  CHAOTIC. It may even be worse than material written for Dragonlance's own  band of of racist elves, the Silvanesti, who are listed as also being  CG...yet they kept the Kagonesti Elves as slaves, because the Silvanesti  believed they were superior...uh-huh, I see... The author talks a lot about  magic, art and food, but says nothing about it! No concept of recipes for  elven food, except that non-elves aren't advanced enough to taste the  subtlties of it. That elves use waterfalls to shape their sculptures  through erosion...hope they're not making these things for their human  pals, because they will be years dead before it's finished. Plus the  overriding concept that the elves are retreating and dying out seems to  alude to the destruction of the fantasy element of the whole AD&amp;D  millieu, and that somehow magic is fading from the land. This book is not  worth the money.	2000-01-05
US	50720428	R17PFOKDC4L47H	0786907614	780929390	Cormanthyr: Empire of the Elves (AD&D Fantasy Roleplaying, Forgotten Realms, Book+Map)	Books	1	2	13	N	N	Cormanthyr - Land of Tolkeen's Silly, Dying Elves	I don't know who at TSR seems to think that elves are little more than slothful, frivolous flakes, but it has permiated every aspect of their product line for a long time. This supplement goes into vast detail about  how elves can't do anything quickly, it takes them years, even centuries of  debate to figure out what to do about a problem; and how they view  themselves as rea &quot;People&quot; and everyone else is merely &quot;Not  People&quot;. They also seem to be a very LAWFUL society for a group that  has been, since day 1 of AD&amp;D, listed as CHAOTIC. It may even be worse  than material written for Dragonlance's own band of of racist elves, the  Silvanesti, who are listed as also being CG...yet they kept the Kagonesti  Elves as slaves, because the Silvanesti believed they were  superior...uh-huh, I see... The author talks a lot about magic, art and  food, but says nothing about it! No concept of recipes for elven food,  except that non-elves aren't advanced enough to taste the subtlties of it.  That elves use waterfalls to shape their sculptures through erosion...hope  they're not making these things for theur human pals, because they will be  years dead before it's finished. Plus the overriding concept that the elves  are retreating and dying out seems to alude to the destruction of the  fantasy element of the whole AD&amp;D millieu, and that somehow magic is  fading from the land. This book is not worth the money.	2000-01-05
