US	50739158	R2PG4ONFH0HZBS	1573581135	894991258	The Art of Divine Contentment	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Extremely Practical	The value of the writings of the Puritans can be seen in many different ways. Thomas Watson in seeking to set forth in detail,the nature of Divine contentment ,right at the outset ,(in the epistle to the reader)boldly writes that discontentment is sin. I'm not sure if many Christian writers in our day would be so blunt in drawing the line of distinction as to whether something (such as discontentment)is sinful or not. I am confident that many modern writers would clearly state that contentment is a good thing to strive for and attain to,but I'm not so sure that they would unequivocally label discontentment as sin. <br />The 13 arguments that he gives in Chapter six on (motives to contentment) are very helpful,motivational and convincing. <br />If some think that the writings of the Puritans are somewhat dated and cannot possibly address issues that 21st century Christians must face,I hope that one brief quote will help obiliterate such thinking. In dealing with the subject of contentment as it relates to ones physical prosperity(or lack thereof)Watson writes on p.61\\"You never did thrive in your spiritual trade,your heart was never so low,as since your condition was low;you were never so poor in spirit,never so rich in faith.You did never run the ways of God's commandments so fast as since some of your golden weights were taken off.\\"The author was well aware that the Lord often has used trials in the area of possessions (or being in a state of need)to abundantly prosper the spiritual lives of His children. <br />The practical importance of contentment is something that has practical implications in the lives of Christians every day of their lives. <br />I can say with great confidence that 'The Art of Divine Contentment' would be very useful (in the life of any believer)to help them learn to be more content in every circumstance they face in their lives.	2005-09-10
US	50739158	R28UN1NMYNRPB0	0974525308	621239296	Pursuing God: A Seeker's Guide	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	An Excellent Place To Start	Pusuing God helps fill a void that exists in modern Christian literature. There are many books that are available that deal with variuos aspects of apologetics. This book was not written for the skeptic ,who does not believe that God exists ,or the agnostic,who is not sure about God's existence. It is designed to give guidance and wisdom to those who are confident that there is a God and want to learn more about what God requires of them. <br />Jim Eliff's style is very informal and engaging. He is very gifted at breaking down theology at a grass roots level.He asks the question ,What does the Bible say you look like?,and answers it by quoting Romans 3:10-12(There is none righteous,no,not one...). <br />He is also very persuasive but gentle. In speaking to the danger of delaying repentance he writes on p.44\\"there are those who seek a little while,but who never find,because their seeking is only surface,and their love for themselves is permanent.\\" <br />Mr.Eliff includes quotes and illustrations from history and from life in general. For example coming to Christ while cherishing sin is like attempting to fly an airplane in two directions at the same time.  <br />The author clearly points out in several places that your actions reveal what you truly believe(as a person thinks in their heart he or she acts).  <br />It has often been my experience that theology brought down to very basic levels is often compromised. Jim Eliff has the rare ability to bring Biblical teaching to a level that a ten year old could easily understand without watering down the truth even one drop. <br />Pusuing God is an ideal book for the person who wants to know how to begin to relate to (the God of the Scriptures)on a deeper level. <br />	2005-08-10
US	50739158	R2NA450GGITJI7	B00071Q2HM	480502133	A door opening into everlasting life: An essay tending to advance Gospel holiness, and to establish the hearts of true believers against their many doubts and fears	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Major Help in Pursuing Holiness	A Door Opening Into Everlasting Life is a treatise on the Biblical doctrine of sanctification. Its author Andrew Gray was a renowned 17th century Scottish minister.  <br />It would not take much discernment(in reading this book)to see the sharp contrast that exists between the depth of Christian maturity ,attained by many, in centuries past, in comparison to this century. <br />Andrew Gray was converted as a young boy and was in the ministry for only a couple of years before his death at 22 years of age. When he was very young he was deeply impressed at the sight of a beggar pouring his heart out to God in thankfulness for mercies received. He was deeply convicted by that sight ,realizing that he had never lacked anything that he needed ,yet he was never so thankful to the Lord for all of the mercies that he received. What is astounding about this book is the depth and level of spiritual maturity(that is clearly evident on every page)which seems almost impossible given the age of the writer.  <br />The book is divided in five sections. The first section gives arguments for leaving sin and living holy.One of the sub-headings being is'Thou mayest be wise,and rich,and formal,and yet damned at last ,if not holy!His thinking is so contrary to the spirit of this age ,and p.20 of the subheading mentioned above has one of the most striking examples of this \\"Oh,it is good to meditate often on the wages of sin!I know such thoughts,and meditations are held as being too melancholy,but it is the way to prevent sin,and consequently destruction. ...is sin more sweet than the wrath of God would be bitter.\\"This type of counsel is the opposite of what you would receive from many in this generation. <br />The encouragements and sound exortations to be holy are manifold.In the third section of the treatise (the character of a true believer)the perspective on what the Christians mindset should be is very enlightening:1.true religion is not a burden but a privilege 2.true believers hatesin(a key to growing in holiness)3.believers labour diligently to propagate the gospel of grace4.believers are conscious of God's presence and study to walk under His all seeing eye 5.A believer judges God's way to be the easiest and God's love to be greater gain than possessing the whole world. <br />A Door Open to Everlasting Life is one of the great treasures on holy living from a spritual giant of days gone by.  <br />Do you want to be more holy? I urge you to sit at the feet of Andrew Gray and plead with God to burn the truths(set forth so clearly in this book)to your heart and soul.	2005-08-01
US	50739158	R2NVAZA7994PPX	0925703133	227593037	A Layman's Guide to the Lordship Controversy	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Lord and Saviour,Not Lord and or Saviour	A 'Layman's Guide to the Lordship Controversy' was written to give a brief summary of both sides in the controversy.In the introduction Mr.Belcher gives a brief historical overview as to how the controversy began and brings us to where it stands as of the writing of this book.  <br />Richard Belchers ability to analyse and systematize, both his own view and the opposing view,in a fair and accurate manner is both admirable and outstanding. That this ongoing debate is important most familiar with it will readily acknowledge. In identifying John Macarthur(Lordship view)and Zane Hodges(non-Lordship view)as the key proponents Belcher notes that they agree in this regard:that the nature of the gospel is at stake. <br />In part one the author takes the non-Lordship view of Zane Hodges(as set forth in his book'Absoulutely Free')and presents his view wtih 11 principles and brief paragraphs which summarize those principles. A couple of those principles for example would be:1.\\"Assurance of salvation is based on the promise of the gospel and not on works,fruit or perseverance. \\",2.\\"Salvation and discipleship are distinct,and should never be confused or mingled lest the gospel message be destroyed.\\" He then concludes section one with 22 principles which summarize John Macarthurs view from his book'The Gospel According to Jesus'.  <br />In section three of the book he gives a critique of the non-Lordship view.His analysis of the non-Lordship view is piercing and throughly exposes some of its major theological flaws. On p.94 under the heading(non-Lordship salvation has a new birth that does not necessarily transform)Belcher writes\\"Hodges never denies the miracle of the new birth. ...Yet one can experience this new birth and not be transformed.The sinner may turn from his sin or he may not.He may submit to Christ or he may not. He may follow Christ or he may not.\\" <br />Those last words are really cutting. A Christian that has an option of following Christ or not. Does such a beingexist? The title of Christian was first used as a title of derision for those who were followers of the Lord Jesus Christ. It literally means little Christ. For the last 2000 years followers of Christ have worn that title as badge of honour.  <br />Belcher is both fair,extremely accurate and graciuos in exposing the deep thelogical flaws of the non-lordship view and gives an excellent summary and overview of the 'Lordship position'.  <br />'A Laymans Guide to the Lordship Controversy' is a valuable contribution to this ongoing theological debate.	2005-07-30
US	50739158	R2CAZB9NL9DTQU	0840755775	287113787	The virgin birth: doctrine of deity	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Predicted and Fulfilled	The author points to J.Gresham Machens book on 'The Virgin Birth' as one of the classic evangelical defenses of the doctrine. So why write this book, Gromacki thinks that Machen's book was heavy and that it was written for intellectuals who were familiar with the critical liberal approach. Thus this book was written for the interested layman and formally trained Bible students.  <br />As to the importance of the doctrine Mr. Gromacki rightly points out( in dealing with the true humanity that Jesus had),that to be considered truly orthodox one must believe that Jesus was truly a man as well as being fully God.  <br />Any book that addresses 'The Virgin Birth' must of necessity consider the hypostatic union of the two natures of Jesus Christ. In part IV of the book entitled 'The Results of the Virgin Birth' the chapters are concerned with :the humanity of Christ,the two natures in one person and the sinlessness of Christ.There is much historical Christological doctrine set forth in a clear and concise manner.The author has great ability  on a subject ,that is complex and difficult to grasp, to write with precision and clarity. On p.111 he addresses one aspect of the hypostatic union\\"He was also one person with two wills. If Christ truly had two natures,then He must have had two wills,one human and the other divine. ... each nature,in order to be whole and entire,must have all its essential elements. ...thus in Christ,two natures or substances(oustai),constitute one personal subsistence(hupostasis).\\" <br />The third section of the book entitled 'The Nature of the Virgin Birth' has a chapter that deals with erroneous concepts. He deals briefly with some unBiblical teaching of the Roman Catholic Church re-The Virgin Birth. I will list a couple of things that are briefly addressed:1.The incarnation and the Virgin Birth do not cause Mary to become 'The mother of God',2.The incarnation and Virgin Birth do not involve the perpetual viginity of Mary.  <br />Equally as important as looking at false teaching re-The Vigin Birth Part v has 3 chapters that focus on the purpose of the virgin birth. This is in contrast to Mel Gibson's movie 'The Passion of Christ' which focused on the actual suffering but almost overlooked completely the purpose for the suffering.  <br />I believe this is the most helpful book,available to Christians, on the doctrine of 'The Virgin Birth'.	2005-07-27
US	50739158	RT8ANN91NXC6P	0851516610	332908944	The Glory of Christ (Puritan Paperbacks: Treasures of John Owen for Today's Readers)	Books	5	25	25	N	Y	Inexaustible Riches	To meditate on the person of Christ in all His glory will be beneficial to anyone who love the Christ of the Scriptures. Any book that can help us to see something of His glory is certainly worthy of our time and attention. John Owen was undoubtably one of the great Puritan theologians, and among the greatest theologians that the Church of Christ has ever had.<br /><br />Most would agree that Owens style of writing makes him much more difficult to read than some other prominent Puritans such as Thomas Watson,Jeremiah Burroughs,Richard Baxter and Thomas Manton.Since many find Owen so difficult to read hopefully the abridgements that R.J.K.Law has done will give some of John Owens more important works the wider audience which they so richly deserve. Owens 'Meditations on the Glory of Christ ' were first published a year after his death.<br /><br />John Owen being near death contemplated much on the Glory of his Saviour and these meditations are the fruit of those c9ontemplations at that time in his life.<br /><br />In the chapter 'Beholding the Glory of Christ by Faith and by Sight' Owen writes on p.102 \\" The actual sight of Christ is what all the saints of God desire in this life more than anything else-to depart to be with Christ(Phil.1:23);'to be absent from the body and present with the Lord'(2Cor.5:8).Those who do not long for this sight of Christ's glory as their highest joy are unspiritual and blind.\\"<br /><br />When we contemplate the glory of Christ our minds soar from the things of earth and we are enabled to set our hearts on the things above.If your love for the Lord Jesus Christ is waning ,this is one of those rare books(that under God's blessing)can take that spark of love and fan it into a roaring flame.	2005-07-09
US	50739158	R378H9RYLZQJWX	0851514782	739335886	All Things for Good (Puritan Paperbacks)	Books	5	42	43	N	Y	God's Wisdom And Power Working In His Providence	The eminent Puritan pastor Thomas Watson gives us in 'All Things for Good' an exposition of Romans 8:28. In opening up this portion of God's Word his purpose is to comfort the Lord's people,and help them to see that even in the greatest trials that they will face, God is willing and able to make them work out for their good.  <br />How can the Lord work trials ,both great and small,to bless and help His people? In this masterful treatise Watson shows us how this can be. In the first section of the first chapter we see that it is God's attributes, that being His power,His wisdom and His goodness that are operative in His children's behalf.  <br />The Puritans were master physicians of the soul. One cannot help but think that the depth of their understanding on how God uses affiction and trials in the lives of believers was not just in theory but in large part experiential as well. Just a brief sketch of many of their lives would reveal that to be the case.  <br />They also realized that whatever brings Christians nearer to God was to be seen as an evidence of His love and a desire to abundantly bless them.  <br />A couple of brief quotes will hopefully give a small glimpse of the great depth that is so abundant in the written legacy that the Puritans have left us: p.31\\"How do afflictions make us happy,we reply that,being sanctified,they bring us nearer to God.\\" p.52\\" God does not deal alike with all ,He has trials for the strong and cordials for the weak... if God does not give you that which  you like,he will give you that which you need.\\"  <br />In Christ's school of learning ,(how the Lord providentially uses affliction,temptation and sin)for the believers good ,the Puritans are masterful teachers,and books such as 'All things for Good' should not be neglected to help instruct us in these important matters.	2005-06-26
US	50739158	R13R54EWJR5DTT	B0006WNOGO	476127059	Studies on saving faith	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Its Importance:Can It Be Overstated?	This book is interesting for a number of different reasons. It is another one of the gems that was put together from a series of articles from 'The Studies in the Scriptures'(These were taken from articles that first appeared in 'The Studies...' in 1932,1933 and 1937).What is also fascinating about this book is that two other publishers have taken some of the same articles that are included here ,and combined them with other articles from 'The Studies...',with different titles but dealing with the same subject,that being various aspects of God's saving work. The titles of the other books are 'The Doctrine of Salvation'published by Baker Books and 'Genuine Salvation'published by International Outreach(located in Ames,Iowa). This is also the second publisher that has put this same book in print,the first was Reiner Publications. The interest that various publishers have shown in these articles should not suprise those who are somewhat familiar with the life and ministry of A.W.Pink. What Pink has written on the nature of salvation are among his most searching and insightful writings that he has penned on any subject. One astute observation (there are dozens that could be given)will suffice:on p.5 Pink's observation as to why the Phillipian jailer (when he asked,what must I do to be saved)was only instructed to 'believe on the Lord Jesus Christ',(as opposed to being exhorted to 'repent and believe on the Lord Jesus Christ'),writes \\"thus it was no giddy,careless,unconcerned person,who was exhorted to \\"simply\\" believe;but instead,one who gave clear evidence that a mighty work of God has already been wrought within him. ... In his case there was no need to press upon him his lost condition ,for obviously he felt it; nor were the apostles required to urge upon him the duty of repentance,for his entire demeanor betokened his contrition.\\" Another interesting feature of this book is that in the last four chapters we have Pink's Bunyanesque take on a worldly professor and a child of God who is struggling with assurance. This dialogue has the editor(Pink),having a conversation with Mr.Carnal Confidence in the 19th chapter and with Mr.Humble Heart in chapters 20 through 22. Some of the serious maladies that plague this generation in preaching,christian books and personal evangelism would by God's grace be remedied by a prayerful and careful reading of 'Studies on Saving Faith'.ild of God who is struggling with assurance. This dialogue has the editor(Pink),having a conversation with Mr.Carnal Confidence in the 19th chapter and with Mr.Humble Heart in chapters 20 through 22. Some of the serious maladies that plague this generation in preaching,christian books and personal evangelism would by God's grace be remedied by a prayerful and careful reading of 'Studies on Saving Faith'.	2005-06-24
US	50739158	R2PQH8JY9DQ1HE	B0006Y8E7Q	557798678	Arthur W. Pink, predestination	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Accurate Presentation of Pink's Views	In the book 'Arthur W.Pink Predestination' Richard Belcher gives us a systematic presentation of Pink's view on the doctrine of predestination.  This  is significant in large part due to the great influence that A.W.Pinks writings have had in promoting this doctrine in the 20th century(especially the 2nd half of that century),and his writings continue to have a significant impact in the 21st century.A great strength of Belchers is his ability to helpfully systematize doctrine and his keen and fair analysis of the material. On p.14 Mr.Belcher gives us a summary of Pinks definition of predestination,that being that\\"Pink defined predestination as the act of God whereby He foreordained all that comes to pass.\\" There are some Calvinists and many that are not Calvinists that have labeled Pink as a Hyper-Calvinist. Hyper-Calvinists are generally considered to be those who believe the following :1.They deny the free offer of the gospel 2.(quoting from p.8-9)\\"Hyper-Calivinism denies the necessity of our applying the means to accomplish the will of God because it is felt the will of God will be accomplished-regardless.\\" There are some who would also label someone as a Hyper-Calvinist if they believe that God's love only extends to His elect. <br />Pink absoulutely believed in the free offer of the gospel and he also believed that God's decree does not destroy the contingency of causes and Belcher clearly demonstrates that this was the case.Pink did believe that God's love was only set upon His chosen ones,however he also believed that God was merciful to those who were not elect(in many ways).I  believe that Pink thought that there was a huge difference between  God's love and God's mercy. This books strength and usefulness is that it clearly states both in summary fashion and in greater detail A.W.Pinks view on predestination and helps to strongly refute those who think that Pink was a Hyper-Calvinist.	2005-06-20
US	50739158	R2J6UJEXRYYCTT	0851515215	316609350	Doctrine of Repentance (Puritan Paperbacks)	Books	5	68	69	N	Y	Part of God's Saving Work	A book exclusively on repentance is exceedingly rare in our day, almost non-existent. This is especially noteworthy when one considers the significance of the doctrine. Watson notes in the introduction that faith and repentance are the two great graces essential to a Christian in this life. The Puritans preached and wrote on this doctrine far more often and in much greater detail than has been the case in the last century. I believe this is because they understood its importance as an indispensable part of the saving work of God in the souls of men. In setting forth the nature of true repentance Thomas Watson gives us six ingredients that are present inwardly and outwardly:1.A sight of sin 2.sorrow for sin 3.confession of sin 4.shame for sin 5.hatred for sin 6.turning for sin. He also gives Biblical examples that help to illustrate each of the components of repentance. In opening up what it is to turn from sin Watson writes with characteristic depth on p.54\\"It must be a turning from all sin... so a true convert seeks the destruction of every lust. He knows how dangerous it is to entertain any one sin. He that hides one rebel in his house is a traitor to the crown... .\\"The Puritans were concerned with teaching doctrine but they wanted that doctrine applied to the heart with power by the Spirit of God. This can be seen in the exortations and powerful motives to repentance that are given in chapters six through eight. Some of the motives being:that repentance prepares us for every holy duty,mercy is given to those who are penitent, it is the end of all the afflictions that the Lord sends and the day of judgement is coming. The enourmous value of this book can be seen by the emphasis that the Word of God gives to the doctirne of repentance, by the scarcity of books on the subject and by the authors piety,gifts and usefulness in the service of his Lord and King.	2005-06-17
US	50739158	R1ZD9LQJXV9R7Z	9992345179	311365796	Holy Life: The Beauty of Christianity	Books	5	2	2	N	N	What God requires and desires	Many Christians who have read 'Pilgrems Progress' are well aware of John Bunyans deep and thorough knowledge of the christians walk with the Lord. In 'The Holy Life' Bunyan gives an exposition of 2Timothy2:19 'and let every one that nameth the name of Christ ,depart from iniquity'. The detialed exposition and penetrating insights abound. Though it is not an allegory like 'Pilgrems Progress'there are many insights(in my judgement)that are every bit as helpful. He rightly points out that everyone wants to go to heaven and avoid going to hell ,but how many want to go to heaven to be saved from the inward pleasure of sin. The Puritans in general and John Bunyan in particular understood very well the important role that the mind and affections play in the sanctification of a believer. I think this quote on p.30 will help to prove that point: \\"Now this is that the apostle would have ,namely that the affections and passions of our souls should not choose,but depart from the affections and lusts of our old man, and should be renewed and made willing to be led by the Holy Ghost from them.\\" He later writes that someone can depart in their mind and affections from that which will yet dwell in them as long as they live. <br />There are a multitude of books on sanctification that do not properly understand the important distinction that Bunyan so clearly gives us,(in portions of this book),on the mind departing from iniquity but yet the battle with indwelling sin still remaining as long as the believer lives in this world. Certainly those who espouse the possibility of sinless perfection do not comprehend this at all. This valuable and timeless book on Christian living is available in many editions of Bunyan's works. It may still be available as a seperate book from Gospel Mission in Choteau,Montana.	2005-06-16
US	50739158	RJM7AV73XLI4A	0875524419	522975278	Distinguishing Traits of Christian Character	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Biblically Based Assurance	How might a Christian benefit by reading a book such as 'The Distinguishing Traits of Christian Character'? Where God has truly begun a work of grace reading a book that sets forth the marks of Christian character can help strengthen the readers assurance of faith. The introduction has three things that the writers of the introduction would like to see the Lord accomplish through this book: 1.to strengthen the faith of true believers,2.to expose the false hopes of those who have imbibed false teaching on assurance,3.to clarify these issues to those who teach God's word. The first seven chapters deal with things that neither prove nor disprove that someone is truly converted but, are often relied upon as absoulutely convincing evidence that God has begun a work in the soul. Some of those  things  being conviction for sin,strong assurance,and visible morality. It is possible for these to be present without there being a true work of grace in the soul. One of the traits that does evidence a work of God's grace in the soul is evangelical humility. According to Gardiner Spring p.37 \\"Evangelical humility consists in a just view of our own character, and in a disposition to abase ourselves as low as the vileness of our character requires us to lie.\\" In other words it is an assesment of ourselves that accords with reality. The last 11 chapters consists of those qualities that are characteristic of Christian character,such as practical obdience(to the Word of God),self denial,love of the brethren,a spirit of prayer and seperation from the world. Pastor Springs 'Distinguishing Traits...' is very searching but throughly Biblical. It is one of the great books that will help the reader to assess if the foundation they are resting on is solid rock or sinking sand.	2005-06-11
US	50739158	RB6AGQX0ONIX7	0875528279	116184029	The Five Points of Calvinism: Defined, Defended, and Documented	Books	5	24	26	N	Y	Finest Intoduction Available	'The Five Points of Calvinism...' is an excellent introductory work on 'The Doctrines of Grace\\" also generally referred to as 'Calvinism'. The five points of Calvinism stand together as a system of doctrine which explains God's design on how sinners are saved. In the preface to the first edition it is noted(though often overlooked)that each point constitutes a distinct and important Biblical doctrine. The first section of the book gives a brief historical sketch of Calvinism. On pages 5-8 there is a chart contrasting 'The Five Points of Arminianism' with 'the Five Points of Calvinism'. This chart is very handy and helpful because it clearly and concisely sets forth what these two systems of doctrine are teaching. Calvinistic doctrine  has so often been caricatured both in print and in public discourse as well as in many pulpits. This chart fairly and accurately summarizes both schools of thought. The historical roots of Calvinistic doctrine are traced back to the controversy between Pelagius and Augustine. The differences between Calvinism and Arminianism are not insignificant or just matters of rhetoric but rather go to the heart of the gospel. On p.13 J.I.Packer is quoted on the gravity of the issues at hand, \\"The difference between them is not primarily one of emphasis,but of content. One proclaims a God who saves;the other speaks of a God who enables man to save himself.\\" The second part of the book gives some of the Biblical support for each of the five points. This section is not intended to be exhaustive but serves its purpose as an introductory work that attempts to document some of the Biblical support for 'The Five Points of Calvinism'. The third part of the book gives a list with brief commentary on books that are available for further study on each of the 'Five Points' and on the Calvinistic system of doctrine as a whole. The updated and expanded edition ,which was published in 2004, is far superior as it contains a listing of many significant books that the first edition does not include because they were not yet written. Books such as R.C.Sprouls 'Chosen by God' and Richard Belchers 'A Journey in Grace'. This modern classic is perhaps the best book that someone could read to introduce them to Calvinistic theology.the first edition does not include because they were not yet written. Books such as R.C.Sprouls 'Chosen by God' and Richard Belchers 'A Journey in Grace'. This modern classic is perhaps the best book that someone could read to introduce them to Calvinistic theology.	2005-06-08
US	50739158	R35OSS5ACK6W7K	0310205719	36906356	The Purpose Driven Life	Books	3	5	12	N	N	Must be centered in God	There is so much helpful material in 'The Purpose Driven Life' that can help Christians to realize that, God's purpose for them, should be a continual focal point in their thinking. In the opening chapter he points the reader to look not to themselves to find their purpose and meaning in life,but they must look to God for this. This God centered perspective as the way to find the purpose and meaning for my life is a common thread that is weaved throughout the book. The love for people that Pastor Rick Warren has and his desire to help them by giving direction to find the purpose and meaning for their lives is clearly evidenced throughout the book. So many of this examples could be given. In chapter 39 he gives a summary of five purposes for the Christians life using the great commission as the springboard:1.Love God with all your heart,2.love your neighbor as yourself,3.go make disciples... .He then makes this outstanding observation on p.306\\"keeping these five purposes in balance is not easy. We all tend to overemphasize the purposes we feel most passionate about and neglect the others.\\"In chapter 18 Pastor Warren gives many excellent insights on the dynamics of inter-personal relationships. I believe fellowship among christians can be deepened if the principles in this chapter are taken to heart and put into practice. This book provokes much thought as to why people live as they do,or we could say what their focus on life is and why. In chapter 3 which is titled;What drives your life?,the question if pondered(and the things that the author has wrttien that drives peoples lives)  will help people to understand what they are living for, and why.While there is much to encourage,guide,and strengthen those who desire to serve the living God the book has its weaknesses theologically in places. In the preface the author wants the reader to commit 40 days of their life by reading a chapter a day to discover God's purpose for their life.I believe we can use the term God'swill interchangeably to mean God's purpose for my life. In general the will of God becomes known to any believer as they wholly submit to the Lord and continue to seek guidance and wisdom form His word. I believe this is clearly taught in Proverbs 3:5-7 \\"Trust in the Lord with all thy heart,and lean not on thine own understanding,in all thy ways acknowledge Him and He will direct thy paths.\\" There must be a wholehearted desire to know God's will,and a wllingness to submit to His ways and then God will be continually revealing his will to someome with that disposition. It is not a 40 day plan but a lifetime plan. I understand that a Christians faith may be weak at times ,and vibrant and strong at other times and seasons,but the general principle still remains that whole hearted submission to the Lord is necessary for a clear and ongoing knowledge of His will. On p.25 Rick Warren writes \\"If there was no God,we would all be accidents,the result of astronomical random chance in the universe.\\"I think that the author is well aware that there is no such thing as chance. Some other statements that he has made would indiicate that he is fully aware of that. The above statement however,opens the door, for the possibility that such a thing as chance does exist. It would have been better to write :If there were no God ,we would not exist at all,nothing would.That would shut the door for the atheistic mindset that imagines there could or would be a world or an existence apart from the one that has been created by and is sustained by the one true living God of the Bible. Though somewhat flawed in places theologically 'The Purpose Driven Life' is fiiled with much helpful instruction and encouragement and the book as a whole views life and the purpose and meaning of life from a God centered perspective. <br />	2005-06-06
US	50739158	R24QI3T4690CZI	0802430031	715047934	Gleanings in the Godhead	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Very rich gleanings for sure	The first half of 'Gleanings in the Godhead'(which other publishers have titled'The Attributes of God')has been in print for over 30 years, one of the publishers being Baker Books. Chapel Library in Pensacola Florida has printed 'the Attributes...' in book form for over 10 years and had parts of the book in tract form for a number of years. I posted a review of 'The Attributes..' over 5 years ago on Amazon so the focus of this review will be the second half of this book. The second half of the book is entitled 'Excellencies which pertain to God the Son as Christ'and it is among the best Christological works that one could find anywhere. In Steele,Thomas and Quinns updated and expanded 'The Five Points of Calvinism' they commend Moody Press for keeping this book in print. I think the commendation is due to the importance of the Christological part of the book which is still accessible due to Moody Press' foresight and wisdom. If your understanding of what Christians believe on the person of christ is blurry this book will defintely help to crystalize your thoughts. One brief quote will be convincing as to Pink's ability to state complex truths with great precision and clarity, he writes on p.151 \\"Two seperate natures are united in one peerless person;but they are not fused into each other,instead,they remain distinct and different.The human nature is not divine nor has it been,intrinsically,deified,for it possesses none of the attributes of God. ...on the other hand,His deity is not a creature,and has none of the properties which pertain to such.\\"The chapters are short and easy to digest and there are many rich and profound observations on the person and work of Christ. In almost any of A.W.Pinks books you get gleanings from choice servants of God who have written on the subject. Some of the men of God from the past quoted in this book are Matthew Henry,John Newton,John Calvin,John Flavel and John Gill (to name a few).Any person who wants to learn more about the Christ of the Scriptures will be richly rewarded by the time invested reading and meditating on this book.	2005-06-03
US	50739158	R1VBFQ1S716EU5	B00072LPMS	674952536	The greatness of the soul and the unspeakableness of the loss thereof	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Man's most valuable possesion	John Bunyan is so well known for the ageless classic 'Pilgrims Progress'. He has many other books that have been in and out of print through the years that are timeless as well. 'The Greatness of the Soul' is an exposition of Mark 8:37\\"or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul.\\" He first gives a description of the soul, that being the spiritual and best part of man,the unseen part of man. The soul is the part of man that understands,imagines,reasons and it also includes the conscience,mind and the affections. The realities that Bunyan points to in the unseen world are every bit as real as those which we physically perceive in the material world. Bunyan is a master at painting those realities with words in a powerful and illustrative manner. On p.13 he writes \\"can the body hear?...it is the soul ,not the body,that hears the language of the things invisible.It is the soul that hears God when he speaks in and by His word and spirit;and it is the soul that hears the devil when he speaks by his illusions and temptations.\\" Mr.Bunyan also describes some of the passions of the soul:love,hatred,joy,fear,grief and anger. He then goes on to explain why the soul is great,some of the reasons being 1.God desires communion with the soul,2.It is made after God's image and said to be God's breath and the greatness of the soul being most clearly seen(I think)by the greatness of the price that Christ paid to redeem the souls of His people. The next part of this extraordinary book shows what it is to lose the soul. The loss of the soul includes God's abhorrence of it and God's retribution for its wickedness.In  Bunyan's conclusion of 'The Greatness...' he shows the cause for which men lose this great possesion. The words of Ezekiel 18 'the soul that sinneth it shall die' open this last section of the book. Bunyan's power of persuasion can clearly be seen in his writings. Those who love 'Pilgrims Progress'and have not read any of Bunyan's expository works will love and appreciate this book. It is a powerful evangelistic treatise.e this book. It is a powerful evangelistic treatise.	2005-05-26
US	50739158	RA7ASSQ9U15E7	1877611387	387807646	A Treatise on Earthly-Mindedness	Books	5	19	19	N	N	A very great danger throughly exposed	A book such as this would scarcely be attempted in our day. Another title for the book could be 'The Nature and Enticements of Worldliness'. This book will probably not have a wide readership and that is sad. R.C.Sproul makes an observation in the the introduction that the content of this book is too alien to modern Christianity,and I think that assessment is right on target. Should a book such as this be overlooked or ignored in our day? Is its content Biblical and relevant enough to warrant a larger audience? Jeremiah Burroughs exposes many of the evils and dangers of being earthly minded. One of the evils brought out by the author is that earthly mindedness is the root of apostasy. He cites the example of Demas. Demas became an apostate,Why? The apostle Paul said that Demas forsook him because he loved this present world. Are there not any Christians in our day in danger of becoming apostates because they have an inordinate love for this world? If the answer is no to that question then this book would be irrelevant for today. You could probably put on a blindfold and point to almost any part of this treatise and you would find something that needs to be shouted from the rooftops in this generation. I did not use the blindfold method but I would like to give this example from p.2\\"This is the great difference between a wicked man and a godly man :one minds earthly things,and the other has its conversation in heaven. \\" Comments such as this are quite foreign to Christianity in this present age. What our generation needs is not only many that would be interested in reading and absorbing a book like this ,but that God would be pleased to raise up those who could write a book that has such great spiritual weight.	2005-05-23
US	50739158	R196K5RJ2R29BV	1573580880	440916792	Jonathan Edwards on Heaven and Hell	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Revealers of God's Character	In describing heaven Gerstner quotes Edwards on what it means,by virtue of the Christians union with Christ,to possess all things p.15 \\"I mean that God,three in one,all that He is,and all that He has and all that He does,and all that He has made or done,the whole universe,bodies and spirits,light,heaven,angels,men and devils,sun,moon,stars,land,sea...are as much the Christians as the money in his pocket,the clothes he wears or the house he dwells in... .\\" Mr. Gerstner quotes Jonathan Edwards extensively because he believed it helps to capture the very spirit of the man. I agree with Gerstner wholeheartedly which is why I always like to include at least one quote when I review any book because it does give the reader something of the spirit,personality and style of the books authuor when some of their exact written words are given. We learn much about our creator from his written word as well as the human instruments that our Lord was pleased to use giving us His word. Some believe that Edwards was not balanced in that his preaching emphasized hell and comparatively ignored heaven. Edwards preached much on heaven as any reader of this book will see. The Bible speaks more about hell than heaven and so did Jonathan Edwards. His motive for doing this was that his hearers would be sufficiently warned and by God's grace would escape His wrath and judgement. Edwards is throughly Biblical even when it comes to truths that are difficult to speak and as difficult to comprehend. For example the fact that saints will rejoice in the judgement of the damned(even those who they may have known well in this life),not because there is reason to rejoice at others suffering for its own sake,but because the justice and majesty of God will be revealed in their judgement. The description and warnings on hell are numerous and powerful. One example will suffice p.62\\"The sinner spends all his time here gathering fuel for his own fire there.Every continuance in sin adds to the heat of hell-fire.The longer sinners live,the more wrath they accumulate.\\"Edwards descibes heaven and the fact that the happiness of heaven is progressive. It is so profitable for saints to contemplate on heaven.It helps them to bear the trials and suffering they are called upon to endure in this life. There is a treasure of food for thought on the glories that await the Christian in the life to come and dire warnings to flee from the wrath of the living God.Both will surely be unspeakable.	2005-05-16
US	50739158	R1YITOINX6VOFG	0851510272	270545979	Today's Gospel: Authentic or Synthetic?	Books	5	19	19	N	N	God's Gospel-His Power Displayed	Pastor Chantry writes with a concern that addresses many of the the shallow and careless evangelistic methodologies that are still widely prevalent today. While evangelistic zeal for the lost is essential,zeal which is according to knowledge is equally important. The book highlights in places the great danger and harm that can be caused by misplaced zeal. He uses the Lord Jesus' personal evangelism with the rich young ruler because that contains all the essential elements for gospel preaching and evangelistic witnessing that should be present if our zeal is to be united with Biblical knowledge. Who better to instruct us on how to evangelize than the Lord Jesus Himself. A few of the essential elements are: preaching the law of God,preaching the character of God and preaching the necesstiy of true repentance. When preaching on the character of God the preacher is seeking to make known the attributes of God,and thereby exalt His character. Pastor Chantry thus exposes one of the great weaknesses in so much preaching and evangelism today,that being, that it is man centered when it should and must be God centered. Why is modern day evangelism and missionary labours so impotent? Walter Chantry asks in the introduction: Where is the power of Edwards and Whitfield in today's preaching? The author thinks that it is in the content of the Gospel message. Mr.Chantry writes on p.36 \\"The absence of God's Holy law from modern preaching is perhaps as responsible as any other factor for the evangelistic impotence of our Churches and missions.\\" Men,women and children must know that they are lost before they can truly be saved and the preaching of God's Holy law is the means that God has ordained to bring about conviction of sin. Romans 3:20b ...for by the law is the knoledge of sin.'Today's Gospel...' will help to expose much of what is lacking in so many pulpits and many evangelistic endeavours,may the Lord be pleased to use it to that end for many years to come.	2005-05-12
US	50739158	R33UB0XKLP6EKS	1589603133	640879906	The Holy Spirit	Books	5	35	35	N	N	The Holy Spirit 'of God'	Pink's work on the Holy Spirit is one of his lesser known works on major Christian doctrines. It was first in print as a series of articles in the monthly magazine 'Studies in the Scriptures'from 1935-1937. The 'Studies..' were began in 1922,a joint venture of A.W.Pink and I.C.Herendeen. The 'Holy Spirit'was first published in book form in 1970 some 18 years after Pink's death. At times it has been out of print for years at a time. The ministry of Chapel Library in Pensacola Florida uses it as a study guide for those interested in their study by mail courses. Why this book is somewhat undervalued of Pink's major doctrinal studies remains a mystery to me. The chapter titles which list the work of the Spirit are so helpful in identifying the various ministries of the Holy Spirit's work in the lives of God's people. Afew that I would like to mention are:The Holy Spirit regenerating,The Spirit convicting,the Spirit working faith,the Spirit uniting to Christ,the Spirit assuring and the Spirit leading. Simply listing the 22 chapter titles on various aspects of the work of the Holy Spirit of God is a lesson itself. The person and work of the Holy Spirit is where there is as much divergence in Christendom, as there is with any other major Christian teaching. As is characteristic of almost anything that came from Pink's pen there is a plethora of insights and riches that have been mined from the Word of God. An outstanding example is on p.31 \\"Hence,from the first entrance of sin,there were two great heads to the promises which God gave His people:the sending of His Son to obey and die,the sending of His Spirit to make effectual the fruits of the former.\\"A.W.Pinks work on the Holy Spirit is without a doubt one of the great works ever penned on the third person of the Triune God.	2005-04-26
US	50739158	R3F05DS0YC71O4	1576830969	840461116	Ten Questions to Diagnose Your Spiritual Health	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Do you need a spiritual checkup?	The number of books that Christians in general(and the Puritans in particular)have written on assessing one's spiritual health are numerous. The subject of examining one's faith is scarcely writtenabout compared with the last four centuries. Some of the classics(to name a few)from the 17th and 18th century are 'Religious Affections'-Jonathan Edwards,Spiritual Refining-Anthony Burgess,The Parable of the Ten Virgins-Thomas Shepard and 'The Touchstone of Sincerity'-Thomas Brooks. A couple of the books written closer to our present day that broach the same subject are:'The Distinguishing Traits of Christian Character'-Gardiner Spring and 'Profiting from the Word'-A.W.Pink. There is a need for modern books that make such attempts and Donald Whitney's 'Ten Questions...' helps fill that need. Some think that such books lead to excessive(or morbid) introspection, and that may be a danger for some. However the far greater dangerin the 21st century is the lack of sufficient attention given to the state of ones soul. Given the Biblical exhortations to heed this important duty it seems to be ignored in many Christian circles in our day. It is a healthy practice to consider one's spiritual health and the questions asked and examined by Pastor Whitney are not only excellent questions,but much wisdom and gentleness is displayed.InChap.5 ,the question being 'Do you have a growing concern for the Spiritual and Temporal needs of Others?Christians are sometimes unbalanced in seeking to meet the Spiritual needs while overlooking the temporal needs. Thus Pastor Whitney writes on p.71\\"To say in effect,I love you so much and am so concerned about you that I want to give you the words of eternal life,but I don't care enough to address your basic and pressing physical need,is a denial of my supposed concern. One question that might have been askedis \\"Do you have an inordiante love for the things of this world? In all fairness though this question is not addressed head on it is touched on indirectly by some of the other questions that are asked.'Ten Questions...' is an excellent addition to the many books that have been written to help Christians evaluate their spiritual condition, and is paticularly important because of the paucity of books in recent years  that tackle this subject and also because of the spirit of our age(which is vain and self centered to a very high degree).	2005-04-22
US	50739158	R3PEBAYM1XZPKF	B0006F64J0	825885352	The Narrow Way: Examining both Heaven and Hell and the Message of Eternal Salvation in Jesus Christ	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The only way to heaven	A testimony to this book's increasing usefulness is that in its short life in print(it was first published in 1993,though some seperate chapters were printed in tract a few years earlier),it has already been translated into Spanish,Korean,Russian and Chinese. It is uncompromising in setting forth the Biblical way of salvation and treats the duties of self-examination and self denial in an exceedingly searching manner. On page 35 Mr. Nichols gives us one of the reasons it is so important to have our thinking clear on matters of eternal weight and consequence: \\"Most people create a god to their own liking and who exists only in their own imaginations. The consequences of creating a god to our own liking are nothing short of eternity in hell. We can be wrong about some things,but to be wrong about salvation is the greatest error we can make. It is fatal to our eternal souls\\" It is also a mistake that if made the person will forever experience sorrow and torment for such a fatal mistake. One aspect regarding the nature of saving faith which is missing in many pulpits in our day, and even where it is not completely absent nor given sufficient emphasis ,is the teaching of our Lord on the necessity of self denial. It is at the threshold of someone entering into the kingdom of God that this Biblical truth is set forth in the Scriptures. This truth is presicely and powerfully given to us in \\"The Narrow Way\\"  by William C.Nichols. I will give a brief quote from p.55 to illustrate this \\"When self is denied, Christ becomes the chief object of love,trust,faith and dependence.Christ becomes master in place of self... For Biblical self-denial as described here is the essence of repentance.\\" We live in a day that if anything is characterized by self indulgence,thus the desperate need to emphasize this aspect of Biblical light and truth.  <br />I believe that anybody who reads this book will not be able to say on the day of judgement that he or she did not know the way to obtain eternal life. That person will only realize that they knew 'the way' and rejected it, resulting in everlasting woe and misery. The author quotes and was obviously influenced by great evangelistic sermons and books from previous centuries but has written one of the greatest evangelistic books of the 20th century in my judgement. If anyone is uncertain as to whether he or she is on the narrow way that leads to life,this is THE book that will help point them to that way that leads to eternal life. May the Lord be pleased to give an ever increasing hearing for this book in our nation and amongst the inhabitants of the whole world for the everlasting good of the souls of many.	2005-04-16
US	50739158	REWNRMH8GTIBS	B0006Y5JQ0	298211911	Arthur W. Pink, born to write	Books	5	12	12	N	N	He certain was born to ...	There are many reasons that could be given for reading the biography of any Christian that has had great usefulness in the Kingdom of God. There is much that can be learned that has come from the pen of A.W.Pink, but there is so much that can be learned from his life as well. There have only been two biographies on Pink's life thus far. What makes this one so special is that it is very instructional on God's providential dealings with one of His servants. Richard Belcher read just about everything that came from Pink's voluminous pen and did extensive research to get as much information as he could for this interpretive biography. It cannot be denied that there was a significant revival of the doctrine known as Calvinism in the second half of the twentieth century. Richard Belcher believes that Pink is as responsible as much as any man for the resurgence of belief in that doctrine. Mr. Belcher is far from standing alone in that opinion. One thing(among many),that is so fascinating about the life and influence of Mr.Pink is that he is much more well known and appreciated 53 years after his death than he ever was when he was alive. Belcher eloquently writes in the introduction \\"There was no hint when he passed from this world that he would be remembered except by a few faithful readers of a small paper he had published for thirty some years. ...Surprisingly,however,the role he played in life was sharply reversed following his death in 1952.\\" There are many books in print today that were never in print during Pink's lifetime. They were taken,by various publishers,from the monthly magazine 'Studies in the Scriptures'which was edited (and mostly written by Pink himself)for thirty years. While Iain Murray's biography 'The Life of A.W.Pink is important and valuable, Belcher's is superior because the reader gets the sense that he really attempted to understand the man he was writing about. This is especially significant because there is much about the life of Arthur Walkington Pink which is contoversial and hard to comprehend. It is hoped that additional biographies will eventually follow about this significant man of God whose influence has been and continues to be enourmous, to the praise and glory of God.	2005-04-09
US	50739158	R3QQOWLMFBH6LH	0849960991	280368135	The Vanishing Conscience: Drawing the Line in a No-Fault, Guilt-Free World	Books	5	18	19	N	N	A Very Great Danger	I believe one of the authors concerns in writing this book was to asess how the Church and individual Christians both view and deal with sin,and then to look at how the maintenance of a good conscience can help the Church of Christ have a greater influence in the world. The author sees one of the Church's weaknesses (not being a lack of effort and involvement in our society)but that the Church often becomes more influenced by the world's values than the reverse. The Church must not get sidetracked into thinking its purpose is to reform society. The Church should be salt and light but its purpose and commission Pastor MacArthur points out in the intoduction is to proclaim the gospel, God's message of salvation to save those who will repent and believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. How our society deals with guilt and the Biblical remedy are quite different. If we are thinking Biblically guilt exists because of sin. Our society wants to rid people of guilt but not by dealing with sin God's way,that is repentance. Our culture's way is to remove personal responsibility and accountability by promulgating a victim mentality. Another way our society deals with guilt P.23 \\"is by classifying every human failing as some kind of disease.\\"This seeks to remove guilt (by getting rid of personal responsibility)by making sin to be sickness. Pastor MacArthur has so much insight as to what ails our society and how that can be remedied.  <br />In Chapters 2 and 3,what the conscience is and how it functions is an invaluable part of the book. A weak and seared and healthy(or strong)conscience are very clearly distinguished. Chapters 5 through 10 are concerned with various aspects of sanctification(The believer being set apart for God and how to Biblically deal with sin).Some of the specific areas which are addressed are:Temptation(Chap.8), Mortification of sin(Chap.7) and keeping the mind pure(Chap.9). There is an abundance of practical help to enable Christians(by God's grace) to live a more godly life. <br />John MacArthur gives the best definition of the conscience that I have seen on p.37\\"The conscience entreats us to do what we believe is right and restrains us from doing what we believe is wrong...It is a human faculty that judges our actions and thoughts by the light of the highest standard we perceive.\\" <br />The conscience is an important gift that God has given to man. The reality is that the conscience in the thinking of modern man is given very little thought or relevance.To better understand what it is and how it works is of great significance to individual believers,the Church and society at large. Having said that, there are relatively few books in our day that deal with the conscience specifically(or the devastating effects of its diminished influence,as this book does) and this elevates the importance of Pastor John MarArthur's valuable contribution on this subject.	2005-03-24
US	50739158	R1OQFC19UOKSF0	0842345523	285963315	More Than a Carpenter	Books	5	1	5	N	N	So Very Much More	More than a Carpenter is a very good introductory book on apologetics and an excellent evangelistic tool. It takes a look at the claims of Christ and of His followers from various perspectives,attempting to address those who are skeptical re the claims of Christ. If Josh McDowells definition of history(A knowledge of the past based on testimony), is a good one, then the historic validity for the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ is overwhelming. Twelve men of excellent moral character testified to its validity and eleven of them gave their lives firmly standing by that testimony. This is a brief example of the kind of help that is given to answer those who have doubts about some of the fundamental beliefs of Christians. Another example that could be given is in Chapter 9 on P.106 \\"The precise lineage; the place, time and manner of birth;peoples reactions,the betrayal;the manner of death.These are just a fragment of hundreds of details that made up the 'address' to identify God's son,the Messiah,the Saviour of the world.\\" To any unbiased mind these fulfilled prophecies would be extraordinary evidence and yet there are many other prophecies that clearly point to Jesus as the promised Messiah. Though a person cannot be convinced or reasoned into the Kingdom of God(they must be born into it,spiritually,through the new birth),the Christian should be prepared to answer those who have questions regarding the Christian Faith, and there is much help in providing answers to the skeptics.	2005-03-11
US	50739158	R2Q3ALWI1J9D1H	0842339655	156621327	The Holiness of God	Books	5	6	8	N	N	The God who is	This book helps illuminate one of the most important teachings in the Bible, the fact of God's Holiness. We learn that one of the reasons that man was created was to reflect the character of His creator. It should not surprise anyone that Holiness as part of God's character is given great emphasis in His word and that he calls His people to be like Him in this regard.  <br />There is a powerful illustration in the life of the great reformer Martin Luther of a man wrestling with the concept of how a sinful man,such as him, could be justified before a Holy God. He was riddled with guilt and the realization that if the greatest commandment was to love God with all of your heart then it was very sinful to fail in this regard. In struggling with this he eventually came to understand the Gospel. That he could never be justified before a Holy God on the basis of anything that he could do(his own good works or his own merit),but only through the perfect obedience and merits of another on his behalf could he ever be reconcilled to a just and Holy God. <br />In Chap. 7 using the judgement of God upon Nadab, Abihu and Uzzah we learn something more about God's holiness. We see throughout the Bible that the Lord often displays mercy, but we are not owed mercy. Sometimes when we see God's righteous judgements we shrink back in horror perhaps because we presume upon God's mercy or think somehow that He is obligated to show mercy.  <br />Mr. Sproul informs us that saint means 'holy one'. On p.201 he writes \\"The saints of Scripture were called saints not because they were already pure but because they were people who were set apart and called to purity.\\"  <br />A book such as 'The Holiness of God' will cause one to reflect much on what holiness is and what it means that God is holy. The more we think about God's holiness the more we will see how unlike God we are,or how unholy we are.  <br />If by God's grace the reading of this book accomplishes a desire in some perhaps many to beholy like their creator and Lord then in this reviewers judgement a great work(to the glory of God)will have been accomplished.	2005-01-06
US	50739158	R22TOITW86FAPP	0940931885	114874399	God's Hammer	Books	5	16	17	N	N	God's Word: Eternal and Indestructible	One of the distinguishing features of any book written by Gordon Clark is the razor sharp precision with which he defines words. In 'God's Hammer' this is especially important due to the subject matter. The author believed that each generation of Christians has a particular doctrinal battle to fight. One of the major battles for our generation is for the inerrancy of the Bible. If this foundation is undermined then any and all Christian doctrine can be compromised of completely disgarded. Two ways that the author attempts to defend the Bible's plenary inspiration is by what the Bible itself has to say in this regard, and secondly by showing the logical consistency of the Scriptures. Mr. Clark points out that this is no easy task in our day because many are convinced that the Bible contradicts itself. Gordon Clark is well aware that at the end of the day, that God by His spirit must reveal to any individual the absoulute truthfulness of His Word.(Theologians have called this the internal witness of the Holy Spirit of God), and under His blessing will use our attempts to expound and explain its meaning to unbelievers. By verbal inspiration the Bilble means that they are both the words of the prophets and apostles(those who wrote the Word of God)and God's words at one and the same time. The author writes on page 10 \\"between Moses and God there was an inner union ,an identity of purpose, a co-operation of will , such that the word Moses wrote were God's own words and Moses own words at the same time.\\" For believers who may have trouble understanding this, there are other parallels in Scripture. Take the incarnation for example, Christ is both God and man in one person at the same time. This is a great mystery no doubt,but it is true nonetheless. The chapter the Bible as truth is illuminating and brilliant. Clark's careful definition of terms are invaluable. To communicate effectively we must certain that the words we are using are understood by our hearers, and that they have the exact meaning that we intend(that presupposes that we have an accurate understanding of the terms that we are using). The importance of this book and the doctrine of the Bible's inerrancy can be seen in this comment by Gordon Clark on p.58 \\" If the Bible in a hundred different passages is mistaken in its account of itself , why should the rest of its message be accepted as true? If the prophets spoke falsely when they said that their words were the words of God.. if they were thus in error, what confidence can we have in anything else they said.\\" Therefore, if the Bible is not infallible, how can we have confidence in any of its teachings? God's Hammer would be a great weapon in any Christians arsenal in defending the very foundation upon which all of their beliefs rest.	2004-10-14
US	50739158	R119R3T0AJ99P0	085151202X	970431318	Still Hour, or Communion with God	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Help in Prayer	Don't let the size of this book mislead you. It is only 91 pages but it is packed with Biblical light and truth on prayer. Some of the chapter titles will help any reader quickly realise how unordinary this book is. An essential element in prayer is the reality of Christ in prayer. Austin Phelps has this to say on p.85-86 \\"Christ as the atoning one, must be a reality to the soul, or prayer cannot rise to its full growth as an experience of blessedness in the friendship of God.\\" The chapter on fragmentary prayer has many valuable insights on this often overlooked aspect of prayer. While the author does not give a complete formal definition of prayer( I wish he had),we do get bits and pieces of the essence of what prayer is. On p.62 we get one of these bits,\\"Prayer,as we have observed,is an act of friendship also.It is intercourse;an act of trust,of hope,of love-all prompting to interchange between the soul and an infinite,spiritual friend.\\"(That infinte being is the God of heaven and earth).This is not your common book book on prayer,it is uncommon in its style,observations and value.	2004-08-23
US	50739158	RV6BFQSEP6JPJ	1878442287	835838803	Rare Jewel of Christian Contentment	Books	5	62	63	N	Y	Necessary for every Christian to learn	This is 'the book' on the doctrine of Christian contentment. The depth of the Puritans is rarely even approached by modern authors. Burrough's takes you through some of the ABC's of Christian living. For example on p.87-88 &quot;We deserve nothing and therefore why should we be impatient if we do not get what we desire.&quot; Perhaps at the root of discontentment is that we really do not desire God's will in everything, at least in some things we want the Lord to rubber stamp and implement our will even if it is contrary to His. A Christian can be content no matter what their circumstances because contentment comes from the inward state of the heart and not from outward circumstances as the author ably instructs the reader. The importance of a believer learning to be content(and it is a lifelong process)would be difficult to overstate. It helps in dealing with temptation, it prepares the Christian for any type of service their Lord and Master requires of them, and it brings great comfort no matter how bleak things may appear to be. The writer also enables the reader to understand how that comfort is brought, on p.130 &quot; Certainly our contentment does not consist in getting the thing we desire, but in God's fashioning our spirits to our conditions.&quot; God works in us to view things by faith, and by doing so , we see things more and more filtered through God's perspective. By doing that we can see a little more of the big picture of all of the Lord's dealings with His people and bring that to bear on what is happening in our life. Any Christian who learns to be more content both glorifies God and becomes increasingly useful in His service and thats why this book is so important and useful for the Lord's people.	2004-08-06
US	50739158	RBIFV73TW3GFJ	1581341199	248027739	Is Jesus the Only Way? (Today's Issues)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	The Exclusive Saviour From Sin	Christians are often viewed by other religions as narrow, arrogant and rigid because of their insistence that only through faith in Christ alone , can anyone know and be reconcilled to God. This booklet helps to explain how and  why we find ourselves in this environment, that is why there is such fierce opposition to this truth  in the marketplace of ideas.<BR>We live in a day where religious pluralism is espoused by many, and where it is asserted by a great mulititude that absoulute truth does not exist, they believe that all truth is relative. Of course they claim all truth is relative with absoulute cetainty. Philip Graham Ryken writes with great clairty on p.17 &quot;Is Truth Relative? Another name for philisophical pluralism is relativism. It insists that all religious viewpoints are equally valid and equally true. To suggest otherwise is to be arrogant and intolerant. ... You may practice your faith as long as you realise it is only one of many true faiths. If what you believe is true at all, it is only relatively true.&quot; <BR>This type of thinking makes any religion valid if it works for you, and makes it true  because you have derived some benefit from it.This of course is both impossible and highly irrational because there are opposing claims with Christianity and every other religion and they both cannot be true. The author also informs us that the crucifixion of Christ has been a stumbling block to those outside of Christ for 2000 years. <BR>Christians should not be surprised when there is opposition to foundational Biblical truths. In fact they should expect it, because the Bible and church history teach us that this has always been the case. <BR>This booklet is an extremely useful resource to help followers of Christ both understand why non-christians are so offended by this foundational Biblical truth and how they can adequately answer some of their objections.	2004-05-31
US	50739158	R2R1STOW2ZIMOV	1581344120	975794471	Think Biblically!: Recovering a Christian Worldview	Books	5	28	30	N	N	The only healthy way to think	Think Biblically is edited by John MacArthur, who also has contributed four chapters to the book. The other contributors are faculty members of the Masters College. Every person has a weltanschauung we are told in the introduction. A weltanschauung is a personal worldview. This book contrasts the christian worldview from a secular mindset. How should a christian think about and relate to the world in which we live? Think Biblically is very helpful in giving answers to that question on a number of subjects. How should a christian view creation versus evolution,history,education,church and state,science? <BR>An important feature of this book are the insights given to what the implications of not holding a christian worldview can be. On p.79 John MacArthur writes &quot;There is no viable explanation of the universe without God. So many immense and intricate wonders could not exist without a designer. Theres only one possible explanation for it all, and that is a creative power of an all wise God.&quot; God has given meaning to everthing that exists, and without God there is no meaning to anything. This is ultimately where evoulutinary philosophy must lead. It is mans attempt to escape moral accountability for his actions from an omnipotent, righteous creator. As the Bible says in Romans 1:22 &quot;Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools.&quot; <BR>What the christian believes about about creation, masculinity and feminity, history, literature will greatly impact how we live and interact with those in our culture. There is no neutral ground . We are affected by our culture whether we realise it or not. <BR>Think Biblically will help to instruct and challenge christians to see if they are reflecting Biblical truth in the postmodern world in which we live. This is an important and relevant book for twenty first century christians.	2004-05-28
US	50739158	R3BFO1G7A353OO	083081650X	644598495	Knowing God	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A Modern Christian Classic	Knowing God, though not yet thirty years old, is already considered by many to be a classic. Mr.Packer identifies and emphasizes the most important thing there is in life; to know God. Another salient feature of Packer's 'Knowing God' is that it encourages the reader to direct their thoughts Godward and shows some of the great benefits that are reaped by so doing. On p.14 the author makes this illuminating comment &quot;Nothing will so enlarge the intellect, nothing so magnify the whole soul of man, as a devout, earnest,continued investigation of the great subject of the deity.&quot; Surely there is no greater subject that can engage our minds. Of course to contemplate about God is desirable,profitable,necessary and of the utmost importance. However, our thoughts of God must be formed by His self revelation given to us in His Holy Word if they are to be accurate. Thus more than a third of the book is devoted to the setting forth of some of the attributes or characteristics of the God with whom we are to dwell upon. Another important and crucial emphasis of this book, is that it seeks to lead us to not just a theorhetical knowledge of God, but how our knowledge of God should be applied , and that if rightly applied, it should have a transforming effect upon our lives. If this book under God's blessing is sucessful in doing that, it will result in a life that is more holy and God centered, which I would venture to guess was the authors main intent.	2001-06-07
US	50739158	R37BAD8TCGP4LV	1877611573	723587528	The True Christian's Love to the Unseen Christ (Puritan Writings)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Love To Christ- Immensely Important For Believers	The author states his purpose for writing this treatise in the books subtitle: A Discourse,Chiefly Tending To Excite And Promote The Decaying Love Of Christ In The Heart Of Christians. Love to Christ is as important to spiritual life, as the beating of the heart which pumps blood through the arteries that supplies oxygen to the cells, is to physical life, without it  life will not continue. The importance of loving Christ cannot be overstated. Where there is much love for the Lord Jesus Christ there will be great zeal to promote His truth,His Kingdom and His glory. John Macarthur informs us in the forward of the book that the highest duty of the Christian is to love the Lord Jesus. A good portion of the book exhorts the reader as to why Christ ought to be loved. We have an example of this on p.35 the person of Christ should draw forth the believers love due to: &quot;1)His greatness and authority;2)His holiness and purity;3)His wisdom and omniscience;4)His truth and fidelity;5)His fullness and all suffiency;6)His kindness and mercy.&quot; The author encourages the believer to make diligent use of the means God has provided to increase their love for their Lord. Some of those means being: hearing the Word preached, reading and studying the Scriptures, praying for increased love for Him, living by faith, cultivating a sense of His love for you, growing in your hatred of and striving against sin, associating closest with those who most love Christ, exercising the love that you do have that it may grow.Reading and meditating upon the truths set forth in this book will help any Christian to gage their spiritual health or lack thereof.	2001-05-16
US	50739158	RZHHAY113T2UR	1877611484	229081461	The Evil of Evils: The Exceeding Sinfulness of Sin (Puritan Writings)	Books	5	41	41	N	Y	A Masterful Treatise On The Great Evil Of Sin	The Evil of Evils addresses a great need and exposes a great weakness of those who are followers of Christ in our day. The theme of the book is that there is infinitely more evil in the least sin than there is in the greatest affliction. The renowned Puritan preacher Jeremiah Burroughs shows in great detail the fact that there is no good in sin at all and that,though affliction is not desirable in itself,God uses it in the lives of His people to accomplish much good. Rarely do modern authors even begin to approach the depth and breadth that the Puritan's reached in exposing sin for the immense evil that it is. This is due in part to the strong opposition to such preaching and teaching that will often be encountered. On p.28 Burroughs makes this comment about how evil sin is &quot;Sin is so opposite to God that, if it were possible that the least drop of it could get into God's nature,God would instantly cease to be God.&quot; Sin is so opposed to the nature and the very existence of God that it would destroy Him if it had the power to do so. Mr. Burroughs then seeks to show how sin is opposite to man's good. The truth set forth in 'The Evil Of Evils' is so much needed in our day because it is to be feared that many in our day are much more fearful of the least aflliction and have very little fear of the greatest sin. If the believer is to bring every thought captive to the obedience of the Lord Jesus Christ then sin must be exposed for the great evil that it is,and affliction should be viewed as an instument that God uses to conform His people to the image of His Son. The Word of God exhorts the people of God to count it all joy in the midst of trials but never is this to be their attitude toward sin. This book will help the Christian reader to have and maintain a godly perspective with regard to sin and affliction.	2001-05-06
US	50739158	RCM5PJ2C3CEDE	0801011213	734501324	Grace Unknown: The Heart of Reformed Theology	Books	5	36	37	N	N	Reformed Theology-Grace Displayed	In 'Grace Unknown', R.C.Sproul is concerned with answering the question, what is Reformed Theology? The first half of the book deals with 'The Foundations of Reformed Theology'. The five foundations are as follows: 1)Centered on God, 2)Based on God's Word Alone, 3)Commited to Faith Alone, 4)Devoted to the Prophet,Priest,and King and 5)Nicknamed Covenant Theology. The second half of the book gives a summary of 'The Doctrines of Grace' often referred to by the popular acrostic TULIP. Mr. Sproul never disappoints when it comes to analyzing terms that are used and how at times they can be misleading. For example, in the acrostic 'TULIP', the T stands for Total Depravity. Total Depravity is often thought to be utter depravity, which would mean that a person is as wicked as he could be. The author writes on p.118 ,&quot;The term Total Depravity... refers to the effect of sin and corruption on the whole person.&quot; He then suggests that a better term to use might be radical corruption. Mr. Sproul's extensive knowledge of church history as it relates to Reformed Theology will give the reader much help in understanding how Reformed Theology and &quot;The Church of Rome&quot; differ. Historic Protestantism views the Bible as the only source of infallible revelation. Whereas the Roman Catholic Church has taught historically that there are two sources of infallible special revelation:  scripture and church tradition. If you need or would like an answer to the question  &quot;What is Reformed Theology?&quot;,it would be difficult to find a more clear and concise answer to that important question than is found in the book &quot;Grace Unknown&quot;.	2001-02-07
US	50739158	R24RL0SA1FPGJM	0801011523	661813815	Willing to Believe: The Controversy over Free Will	Books	5	16	16	N	N	The Importance of Historical Theology Demonstated	It is extremely important to carefully consider what those who have gone before us have thought and written on important subjects. Those who ignore historical theology leave themselves open to errors which may have already been ably refuted by others in the past. R.C.Sproul gives us an excellent summary of what some of the most influential men in Church History have thought on the controversial subject of the role that a person's will has in the salvation of an individual. Some of the men who's views are presented by Mr.Sproul are Pelagius,Augustine,Luther,Arminius and Jonathan Edwards. We should always seek to understand and accurately represent the views of those with whom we may not be in agreement with. It is a sad reality that this is often not the case. Lewis Sperry Chafer very helpfully clarifies what is a problem fo some on p.204 &quot;It is a strange thing to deem the liberation of an enslaved will as a violation of freedom.&quot;This is what God does in the salvation of an individual. I don't believe anyone knows how God does this but the Bible clearly teaches that He in fact does. A great strength of this book as in all of R.C.Sproul's books is that the reader is not left with the impression that Sproul either does not understand(and therefore has not misrepresented)the view that he himself does not hold. The flip side being that the view that R.C.Sproul believes to be the Biblical view is very accurately given to us.	2000-09-26
US	50739158	R2WU8QQ8L6GNAS	0925703117	55805320	A Journey in Grace: A Theological Novel	Books	5	25	25	N	N	A Journey in Truth	A Journey in Grace is a book that seeks to teach theology in the setting  of a fictional novel. It is a novel idea(no pun intended), perhaps somewhat  similar to John Bunyan's enduring classic 'The Pilgems Progress'. The  Biblical doctrine that is taught by Mr.Belcher in this book is often  referred to as Calvinism. A label that this reviewer prefers is 'The  Doctrines of Grace'. This format is ideal for teenagers, young adults and  perhaps those who are not that familiar with this Biblical teaching. What  Richard Belcher accomplihes with great sucess is to clearly instuct the  reader on this often maligned doctrine. The reader is also exposed  to what  is thought to be Calvinism but in reality is a caricature of it. Another  great value of this book is that there is a good deal of help in learning  how to present what one believes in a gracious manner. This is the first in  a series which now totals seven books with each one focusing on an impotant  Biblical teaching. The story begins with the main character Ira Pointer  being interviewed for his initial pastorate. The interview seems to be  going well until one of the men asks Ira with an abrasive sprit if he is a  Calvinist. The journey thus begins with Ira trying to find out what a  Calvinist is and then seeking to assess if is one.	2000-09-17
US	50739158	RCX2O10WOJPON	1581340788	68476196	Justified by Faith Alone (Today's Issues Series)	Books	5	14	15	N	Y	Razor Sharp on Justification by Faith	There are some, perhaps many, in our day who think there is a possibility  of evangelical churches and the church of Rome being united one day. They  believe that perhaps the differences between them are not as great as they  have been in the past. This booklet by R.C.Sproul would be a strong  corrective to any whose thinking is along those lines. The way a person is  justified is the most important doctrine related to a person's salvation.  Mr. Sproul highlights one of the most significant differences between the  evangelical understanding of justification and the church of Rome's  teaching on justification on pages 12-13.&quot;Justification refers to a  legal action by God by which he declares a person just in his sight. ...  Catholics agree that justification occurs when God declares a person just.  However,when evangelicals speak of forensic justification,...what is tacit  is the assumption that God declares people to be just who in themselves are  not just. Rome teaches that God declares people to be just only when they  are in fact just.&quot; The Evangelicals insist upon the ground of a  person's justification being the righteousness of Christ alone(based upon  His perfect obedience to the law of God)whereas the Roman Catholic Church  teaches that the ground of a person's justification is the work of Christ  plus the work of the believer. Until there is agreement here there can  never be reconcilliation that would be Biblically based. Another very  helpful feature of this booklet is the concise chart on pages 46-47 which  detail the significant differences(consisting of 11 points), between the  Reformation view and the Church of Rome's view on justification by faith.  This booklet is short but very helpful and concise on this vital issue.	2000-08-10
US	50739158	R2Y6DWQRHGJ8FC	0310394910	20919602	The Gospel According to Jesus: What Does Jesus Mean When He Says Follow Me?	Books	5	14	20	N	N	The Biblical Gospel Powerfully Presented	The Gospel According to Jesus is one of the most important Christian books  written in the latter half of the 20th century. There are several reasons  for this.  On page 14 in the introduction, the author identifies one of  them, &quot;No more serious question faces the church today. It can be  phrased in many ways; what is the gospel? Must a person accept Jesus as  Saviour and Lord in order to be saved? What is saving faith? ... Several  who disagree with my views have said in print that the Lordship controversy  is a matter of eternal consequences.&quot; Another reason for the  importance of this book, in addition to the subject matter addressed, is  the wide sphere of influence that John MacArthur's teaching ministry has  had.  Also significant is the fact that his teaching ministry has received  a wide hearing in circles where both the Lordship and non-Lordship view are  espoused.  There are many approaches that Mr. MacArthur uses to show that  Lordship salvation is the biblical teaching.  I will illustrate by quoting  from the book showing the relationship between faith and obedience.  On  page 174-175,&quot;The real believer will obey.  Because we all retain the  vestiges of sinful flesh, no one will obey perfectly (cf. 2 Cor. 7:1; 1  Thess. 3:10), but the desire to do the will of God will be ever present in  true believers (cf. Romans 7:18). Faith always produces a longing to  obey...clearly, the biblical concept of faith is inseparable from  obedience. Believe is synonomous with obey in John 3:36,'He who believes in  the Son has eternal life; but he who does not obey the Son shall not see  life.'&quot; How can anyone that does not submit to Christ as Lord walk in  obedience to God's Word. Jesus said if you love me, keep my commandments,  so someone who does not submit to Christ's lordship is not manifesting any  love to Christ. MacArthur sums it up on page 15, &quot;The gospel in vogue  today holds forth a false hope to sinners.  It promises them they can have  eternal life yet continue to live in rebellion against God.&quot; The  gospel is clearly set forth in this book.  It is the historic Christian  gospel that John MacArthur teaches in this book. Those who oppose this  teaching adhere to a watered-down gospel at best.	2000-08-06
US	50739158	R21HS7IZ1LIZ8A	1857920473	980339921	Life of Faith: What has God done for you?	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Help for Christian Living	The Life of Faith consists of a series of articles mostly taken from various published books by A.W.Pink. The last two chapters were taken from 'The Studies in the Scriptures from which most of the authors books were compiled and published after his death in 1952. In the publihers  introduction they assert that the best of Pink's writings are those in  which he deals with practical aspects of the Christian life. This book  falls in that category. There is much here to help the Christian in his  daily walk with God. Mr.Pinks definition of 'progressive santication' on  p.62 is outstanding,&quot;If by progressive sanctification be meant a  clearer understanding and fuller apprehension of what God has made Christ  to be unto the believer and of his perfect standing and state in him;if by  it be meant the believer living more and more in the enjoyment and power of  that,with the corresponding influenceand effect it will have upon his  character and conduct;if by it be meant a growth of faith and an increase  of its fruits,manifested in a holy walk;then we have no objection to the  term.&quot; The last chapter of the book 'Grace Preparing for Glory' has  not been published previously in any of Pink's books. It deals with how the  believer ought to be living in the light of Christ's second coming. On  p.152 Mr. Pink instructs the reader as to what is produced in the life of  one who has been a recipient of the grace of God; &quot;Divine grace  teaches its favoured recipients subjectively as well as objectively,  effectually as well as theoretically. Grace in the heart prevents us from  abusing grace in the head: it delivers us from making grace the lackey of  sin. Where the grace of God brings salvation to the soul, it works  effectually. And what is it that grace teaches? Practical holiness. Grace  does not eradicate ungodliness and worldly lusts,but it causes us to deny  them.&quot; I believe this book if read and taken to heart will under God's  blessing promote Biblical holiness in the heart and life of the Christian  reader.	2000-04-30
US	50739158	RFVPYTYBKIDHN	085151331X	39608126	Shadow of the Cross: Studies in Self Denial	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Vitally Important Truth	This book deals with a vital but oft neglected Biblical teaching,that of self denial. Mr.Chantry conveys throughout the book the importance of the doctrine. For example on p.7 &quot;Self denial is a practice which lies  very near to the heart of true religion. Without its exercise there can be  no conversion to Christ. Qualities most basic to a Christian frame of  heart-notably humility and meekness-would dissolve without its active  expression.&quot; The author goes on in the opening chapter to give some of  the reasons why teaching on this doctrine has been neglected. It is  extremely important in our day that this truth not be neglected because it  delivers a deathblow to 'the' preeminent philosophy in our culture,which  is,look out for number one,no one and nothing else matters but me. It is  the essence of sin,not to live for the glory of God but to live only for  self. An additional quote will suffice to show the great value of this  little book,p.14&quot; 'Why did Jesus Christ die? There are many sides to  answering such an important question. But under the influence of the  Spirit, the apostle teaches that our Lord's death was not designed to  provide selfish men with eternal life while they remained abandoned to  self-serving. A vital part of Christ's intention was to redirect the  motivation of all whom his bloodshedding would make alive. As he struggled  up Calvary's hill and bled upon it, his aim was to eradicate self-love and  implant the love of God in the hearts of men. One can only increase as the  other decreases.&quot; Indeed,all Christians ought to be able to say with  the apostle Paul,'for me to live is(not self)Christ'. This book will be of  help to all who so desire to live for the glory of God.	2000-04-22
US	50739158	R1CYY8AJWH05II	0851516580	961682123	Thought of God	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Thought Provoking	This book is a collection of some of the lead articles from 'The Banner of Truth' magazine from the late 1980's through the mid 1990's. They are filled with insight and depth that will both encourage as well as search  the conscience of the believer. Mr.Roberts has an excellent understanding  of many of the weaknesses of the Christian Church in our day. The third  section of chapters entitled 'The Christians Walk' will be very helpful to  both young and very mature Christians. The chapter in this section entitled  'Glorying in our Infirmities' is exceptionally profound. One brief quote  will help to illustrate this point;on p.125 &quot;This is the strange  paradox of a healthy Christian mentality. It refuses to glory in its own  strengths and prefers to make an admission of its own weaknesses... When  believers glory in their strong points,therefore,they must expect Christ to  withdraw His grace from them in some measure. Alternatively,when Christians  'glory in infirmities',they make a kind of appeal to Christ to be their  compensation.&quot; What Mr. Roberts is pointing out here is an element of  Biblical humility,which is an essential dynamic of the Christian life,which  causes the believer to have increased confidence in God's ability to help  them walk uprightly and decreased confidence in their own native ability.  It is hoped that the 'Banner of Truth' will consider publishing another  book of the lead articles of Maurice Roberts for they are extremely helpful  and relevant to the Church of Jesus Christ in the 21st century.	2000-04-09
US	50739158	REUQJBOZSXXM9	0875524176	511626600	Today's Evangelism: Its Message and Methods	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Extremely relevant in our day	This is an important book in helping someone to come to a Biblical understanding of what evangelism is ,and what the doctrinal content of the evangelistic message ought to be.Mr.Reisinger has also identified a key element which should never be missing in the evangelistic message,that is repentance. He writes regarding this on p.27&quot;Repentance is one of the vital elements of the gospel message that is strangely absent from most of the present day evangelism,both personal evangelism and mass or public evangelism.This essential ingredient of gospel preaching has slowly,but surely,faded from our present-day pulpits. As a result of this missing element,our church rolls are filled with many members who have missed repentance and will perish unless they repent.&quot; In chapter 6 entitled,&quot;What is the difference?&quot;,the author gives us 5 theological tests that may be applied to help one assess whether their evangelism is God centered or man centered. The appendix on the nature of saving faith is also very valuable in helping someone test if their faith is genuine. This book was first published in 1982 and is still one of the best books in print on evangelistic methodolgy.	2000-03-18
US	50739158	R3OC64LXHDKSR5	0801068622	902465884	Spiritual Growth	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Intensely Practical	When someone becomes a disciple of Christ their most important concern in life becomes,&quot;how may I please and honour the Lord who has saved  me?&quot; How can someone assess their spiritual progress and what means  has God ordained for their spiritual maturation? As in all of his  books,A.W.Pink has many keen insights on this Biblical subject. For  example,on p.116,he writes perceptively,&quot;It is strange that so many  other writers on this subject have failed to place first among the means of  spiritual growth this work of mortifying the flesh,for it should be quite  obvious that it must take precedence over everything else,of what avail can  it be to read and study the Word,to spend more time in prayer,to seek to  develop my graces while I ignore and neglect that within me which will  neutralize and mar all other efforts.&quot;Pink is extremely helpful in  exhorting those who desire to grow spiritually to make diligent use of the  means that God has provided for that end. Meditating on the Word of God is  an important component of spiritual growth which has often been overlooked.  Mr.Pink has this helpful comment on p.129,&quot;If we would read the  Scriptures to advantage,if our souls are to be nurtured by them,if we are  to make true Christian progress,then it must be by earnest prayer and  constant meditation. It is only by pondering the Words of God that they  become fixed in our minds and exert a salutary influence upon our thoughts  and actions. Things forgotten have no power to regulate us,and Scripture is  soon forgotten unless it be turned over and over in the mind.&quot; The  books that Pink has written on Christian living will be of enourmous help  in producing holiness in the heart and life. I believe that a more helpful  and comprehensive book on Christian growth would be very difficult to find.	2000-03-08
US	50739158	R18Q7M6JZFR2PD	0801069904	821530124	Practical Christianity	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Spiritual Gold	How to rightly apply the truths of Scripture in our lives is the essence of practical christianity. Pink gives us a Biblical perspective on how to view Christian doctrine on p.135,&quot;There is no doctrine revealed in  Scripture for a merely speculative knowledge,but all is to exert a powerful  influence upon conduct. God's design in all that he has revealed to us is  to the purefying of our affections and the transforming of our  characters.&quot; The Christian ought always to have this in view,that my  desire to know more of God's truth is that by His grace I may walk in the  light of it. Some of the most helpful things Mr.Pink has written on  experimental christianity are found in this book. The keeping of the heart  is rightly set forth as the great concern that it ought to be in the life  of every believer. Pink gives some very helpful definitions as to what the  keeping of the heart is. For example on p.100 &quot;To keep the heart means  striving to shut out from it all that is opposed to God...God is a jealous  God and will brook no rival;He claims the throne of our hearts,and requires  to be loved by us supremely.&quot; This book will be of immense help to  anyone who would like to know how they may so live,as to increasingly  honour God in their daily lives.	2000-02-27
US	50739158	R3CDG752QB7KX3	0801070880	338092384	The Sovereignty of God	Books	5	101	105	N	Y	The Sovereignty of God	When first published in 1918 this book was very controversial. The reason for this is probably due to the fact that in Pink's day the doctrine of God's sovereignty was almost completely ignored, misunderstood or rejected.  Why read or study a book on the doctrine of God's sovereignty? The author  believed that this doctrine is the second most important doctrine taught in  the Bible, the first being the Divine inspiration of the Bible,which is the  title of Mr.Pink's first book that was published. Pink has this to say  about the importance of this Biblical truth on p.19 &quot;It is... the key  to history, the interpreter of providence,...and the foundation of  christian theology,p.215...it is designed as the sheet anchor for our souls  amid the storms of life. The doctrine of God's sovereignty is a divine  cordial to refresh our spirits. It is designed and adapted to mould the  affections of the heart and to give a right direction to conduct. ...It  affords comfort for the present and a sense of security respecting the  unknown future.&quot; A right understanding of this doctrine places God on  the throne where he belongs and under His blessing produces humility in His  people. The Sovereignty of God is the most comforting doctrine in the Bible  to a christian in the midst of trials. This reviewer is convinced that 'The  Sovereignty of God'by A.W.Pink is one of the most important and influential  books that has been written in this century.	2000-02-21
US	50739158	RYL65TDBIOAGW	1573580066	165670012	Jonathan Edwards Evangelist (John Gerstner (1914-1996))	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Jonathan Edwards-Evangelist by John Gerstner	It is important for every Christian to have a grasp of God honouring Biblical evangelism. The Lord Jesus has commanded His people to &quot;go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature.&quot; In the  opinion of many Jonathan Edwards is the greatest theologian that this  nation has seen. John Gerstner has done a great service to the church of  Christ in our generation by distilling for us the evangelistic theology of  Mr.Edwards ,something which Edwards himself did not do. What type of  preaching does God use in revivals? Edwards gives us his thoughts on the  matter p.28 &quot;The consideration of hell commonly is the first thing  that rouses sleeping sinners. By this means their sins are set in order  before them, and their conscience stares them in the face,and they begin to  see their need of a priest and sacrifice&quot; to which Gerstner adds these  important words &quot;most wicked men who have heard of hell have internal  uneasiness(Prov.29:25).On the other hand a principal means of being lost is  thinking there will be no punishment.&quot; Portions of this book highlight  the importance of preaching on the doctrine of everlasting punishment.This  is especially applicable to the spiritual climate in which we presently  live as the doctrine of hell continues to be abandoned by some well known  'evangelicals'. If you need to have your thinking crystalized on Biblical  evangelism then this book may be as helpful as any chistian book in print  to accomplish that end.	2000-02-21
US	50739158	R1WLHFIAUDRPW	0801069890	970137180	The Attributes of God	Books	5	44	45	N	Y	The Attributes of God	There is nothing more important than having an accurate knowledge of God. The glory of God has been defined as the sum total of His attributes. As a person comes to know God in increasing measures as He truly exists,they see more of His glory. One of the valuable features in most of the books that  Pink has written is that you get numerous quotes from some of the finest  works on those subjects that have been written. Mr.Pink quotes from  &quot;the&quot; classic,Charnock's &quot;Existence and Attributes of  God&quot; no less than ten times. In the preface Pink gives the reader some  important directives as to why a book on the attributes of God should be  read and how we may profit thereby. He writes,&quot;The foundation of all  true knowledge of God must be a clear mental apprehension of His  perfections as revealed in Holy Scripture. An unknown God can neither be  trusted,served,nor worshipped. ...Something more than a theoretical  knowledge of God is needed by us. God is only truly known in the soul as we  yield ourselves to Him,submit to His authority,and regulate all the details  of our lives by His holy precepts and commandments.&quot; Our one great aim  in life should be to know God and to worship Him in sprit and in truth.  This book exalts the God who is and accurately sets forth His person as He  has revealed Himself in His Holy Word. Its eternal value is inestimable in  helping someone to come to know better the God of the Bible.	2000-01-26
US	50739158	RNDMNSBDCWSXX	0851510329	288205189	Profiting from the Word	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	profiting from the word	This book is based on 2Tim.3:16 &quot;All scripture is given by inspiration of God,and is profitable for doctrine,for reproof,for correction,for instruction in righteousness. This book is like a mini  practical theology.It takes the major doctrines of the Bible and examines  the effect that should be produced in the life of anyone that has embraced  these truths from the heart. Is your life being transformed by the power of  God? This book will be of great help to anyone that would like an honest  answer to that very important question.	2000-01-24
