US	50734117	R3M0EJCNSIM6VU	0719550742	316990897	The Flying Squadron	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Sails slowly at first, then flies	Richard Woodman's Nathaniel Drinkwater series is my favourite from the age of fighting sail.  Beginning with the brilliantly Gothic Eye of the Fleet set during the American Revolution and through 20 plus years of the Napoleonic wars Woodman has rounded out the flawed but fundamentally decent Drinkwater.  In The Flying Squadron Drinkwater faces some of his most difficult challenges to date.<br />The year is 1811 and the reader, with the benefit of historical hindsight, knows that Napoleon's reign is nearing its end.  However, the situation appears far the opposite to Britain.  Napoleon's Continental System has severely damaged trade and unemployment in England is rampant.  To make matters worse war with the United States of America is looming; a war the embattled Royal Navy neither needs nor wants.  As usual the reader can count on Woodman to produce a unique perspective on the times.<br />The Flying Squadron is constructed in three parts; the first set in 1811 as Drinkwater supports a peace envoy to the USA, the second set in 1812 after war is declared with Drinkwater patrolling the American coast and the third set in 1812-13 where the naval action takes place.  It is very much in keeping with the series; covert actions leading to a climactic naval encounter at the conclusion.  In my opinion The Flying Squadron is one of the series' best entries.<br />American readers may find this work difficult to read as the USA is portrayed as the enemy in the novel, especially when the reader sees in the first part that the English envoy is attempting to find a peaceful solution and that London is willing to meet Washington's terms.  However, like men of other nationalities who Drinkwater has fought, the Americans are portrayed fairly with one possible exception.  Woodman points out that war is a waste and the tragedy of America and Britain fighting while a tyrant rules Europe is subtly made.  Perhaps Drinkwater's most effective statement in the first part is his referral to anatrocity from An Eye of the Fleet.  I found its reference more shocking in The Flying Squadron than the act was in the original.  Woodman savages the idea of a war of gentlemen played out like a schoolyard game.<br />The first part has a number of lyrical passages where Woodman gets his pen rolling.  He can write well and exercises his writing in a number of philosophical areas.  A reader expecting more action will be disappointed although there is much dramatic tension.  Drinkwater commits an uncharacteristic betrayal and is tortured by his conscience.  Perhaps after becoming fond of the Drinkwater character over the last few years, Drinkwater's problems become much more serious than any naval battle.  The reader can appreciate the toll on Drinkwater after nearly 20 years spent away from home and family.<br />In the second part Drinkwater returns to the American coast as the Commodore of a Flying Squadron with open-ended orders.  The briefer second section brings to a conclusion some of the events of the first.  The action is similar though being more cloak and dagger or cat and mouse.  This is the area where Woodman has carved his niche for Drinkwater, in covert actions.  There is always more going on than meets the eye and Drinkwater eventually figures it out.<br />In the third part Drinkwater is off to the South Atlantic fresh with insight from his two previous trips to the USA.  In this section we see that his insight has paid off leading to a climactic naval battle.  We also get the big picture of the war.<br />The historical perspective of The Flying Squadron is fascinating and one gets a new angle on that war.  However, I don't think a couple of the characters' reflections are accurate.  For instance, before war breaks out the view is expressed in the English quarters that they should be able to hold onto Canada for some period of time.  I doubt that reflects the realities of the situation at the time.  Also, at the novel's conclusion in March 1813 the wordfrom Canada is not good.  Historically it was.  By March 1813 Fort Michilmackinac had been captured, Detroit had been captured and Americans pursued into Ohio, and the Americans repulsed in Niagara albeit with the loss of the brilliant General Isaac Brock.  Woodman might want to consider a revision in any reprinting.<br />The Flying Squadron may not be to everyone's taste.  The vocabulary is such that some of the passages are on the level of O'Brian's in his Aubrey/Maturin series.   It could be challenging in a way that one wouldn't expect in this type of historical novel.  I'm looking forward to Woodman wrapping up the series if he can maintain his writing at this level.	2002-01-09
US	50734117	RNDTQLK9BWZED	0517490919	122553244	The Talisman	Books	4	0	0	N	N	4 Talismans for minor Dark Tower linkages	Even if one wanted to severely criticize this novel, such criticism would little impact.  Stephen King is the most popular author of horror stories in history and Straub is one of the best writing today.  Talisman sold a bazillion copies when it was first published and will likely rack up another bazillion with the recent release of the sequel Black House.  King and Straub's collaboration is an excellent nail-biting horror/action story that is perhaps overly long but thoroughly engaging otherwise.<br />I'm not a great Stephen King reader having read only his Dark Tower series and I tied into Talisman because of its linkage to that series.  Are the Territories of Talisman also the Territories of the Dark Tower?  Perhaps.  King and Straub do make the linkage in the climax of the novel although the reader doesn't need to know anything of the Dark Tower series to enjoy Talisman.<br />Talisman is a quest novel in which the hero, twelve-year old Jack Sawyer, must traverse the continent to obtain a talisman that will cure his dying mother.  His travels take him across 1981 America and the Territories which are in another world adjacent to ours.  He encounters evil men, good werewolves and vice-versa along the way to mention only a few of the challenges he faces.  Like most novels of this ilk, the hero and reader understand little of the quest at hand.  There is a much bigger picture than the one initially presented by the authors.  A twelve-year old boy can get into a lot of trouble on his own and Jack Sawyer does that in spades.<br />The USA of 1981 is interesting but the awe is reserved for the Territories.  In spite of the length of Talisman, the authors only feed the readers bits of it.  Young Jack is never in the Territories long enough that the sense of wonder wears off.  As the novel progresses we understand that the Territories and our world are intertwined and that an action in one is felt in the other.  Is the overflow damage from our world into the Territories ametaphor for our impact on the environment?<br />What's most interesting is to read this novel some 17 years after it was first published.  The authors were obviously taking a shot at the evils of corporate America.  The antagonist, Morgan Sloat, is very much an example of the worst kind of corporate thief and perhaps his actions are a metaphor for the insider trading scandals and corporate downsizing of that era.<br />Talisman is an exciting, wonder-filled novel that suffers only from excessive length.  The authors could easily have trimmed it down by 100-200 pages without losing an awful lot of the content.  Perhaps they felt the additional bulk was necessary to create the right atmosphere or perhaps they wanted to give the reader his money's worth and they are getting the royalties from it, so it's hard to argue.  All in all it's an excellent if familiar story.	2002-01-04
US	50734117	R18L425YPRJBKK	0375504397	237509158	Black House: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Dark sequel to Talisman	Black House is the sequel to the authors' much earlier collaboration Talisman.  In the latest entry Jack Sawyer is in his early 30s and a retired policemen living in Wisconsin.  However, there is a serial killer in the woods who is modeled after real life serial killer Albert Fish.  Jack must be lured back from retirement to solve the crimes, which are linked to trouble in the Territories.  The problems within the Territories fit within the framework of the Dark Tower series.  Unlike Talisman, Black House is a must read for fans of King's Dark Tower series. <br />Readers who devoured Talisman over the last 17 years will want to read Black House to follow the progression of \\"Traveling Jack\\".  Talisman reader had every right to expect great things from Sawyer as an adult and will be initially disappointed to find that, after a meteoric rise in police work, he is retired and trying to hide in the back woods of Wisconsin.  It appears that Jack has forgotten all his travels from 20 years before and needs to be jolted to remember the Territories.  So the novel progresses as he reluctantly helps the local police to track down the serial killer and at the same time must recover his past memories.  Both solutions are needed for much bigger reasons related to the Dark Tower.<br />Much of the tone of Black House is playful, the authors doing a little nudge-nudge, wink-wink with the readers.  It can be a bit annoying as one could get the impression that the authors aren't taking it seriously.  On the other hand they could be taking the Somerset Maugham approach, here's a really good story so you sit back and enjoy it.  <BR>Whatever the intent Black House carries more of Straub's voice than Talisman did.  Talisman is dominated by King's style, so much so that one struggles to find any of Straub in it.  However, Straub's style is stronger in Black House.  Perhaps this is due to Straub's solo success since Talisman or perhaps it's due to King's recent injury.  Whatever the cause Black House seems more the work of equals than the master/apprentice relationship of Talisman.<br />Black House is a first rate novel but not without some problems.  First, the idea of Jack forgetting his travels doesn't fit with the earlier novel.  Jack's father and Morgan Sloat routinely traveled between our world and the Territories.  It isn't reasonable to expect Jack who was the most powerful of all the characters to forget them.  Repressed memory syndrome has been discredited for several years and while it made for some good stories at the time it's just not a viable device.  Second, the denouement is contrived to gild the lily of an otherwise great story.  The third problem I have is that everybody in both Talisman and Black House who claims to be a practicing Christian is a fake or phony and/or evil.  Considering that some 60% of Americans attend church services regularly, the authors are slamming a large portion of their potential readership.  King has obviously done a flip since the heroes of Desperation said the Lord's Prayer before heading off to fight the forces of evil.  Fourth, the Tyler Marshall character assumes greater importance as the novel goes on and has powers in the same way that Jack had in Talisman.  However, this is the same kid who at the start of the novel is hanging around with bullies and dolts.  Why would the remarkable son of a remarkable mother hang around with the losers that he is at the start of the novel?  Fifth, the novel is too long with a lot of filler passages intended to create atmosphere or round out characters who really aren't important.  Stick to the basics guys.<br />The above complaints are relatively minor as the novel is quite good overall.  Some of the characters are excellent especially Henry Leyden, Jack's blind friend.  The Fisherman is a monster modeled after real life killer Albert Fish.  He is without a redeeming characteristic- truly sick.  The atmosphere is well described and there are some passages one would not want to read while alone in the house.  There are also some good insights into human nature.  One passage that was particularly touching was a reflection on all the things we should say to the people who are close to us while we are alive; things we often don't say and wish we had after they are gone.  That passage might be the pearl of great value in Black House.<br />All in all it's a must read for those of us waiting for the next installment of the Dark Tower series.  For King's legion of horror fans, there's plenty of horror to go round.  Straub's fans will enjoy the atmosphere.  It's a worthy entry into the canon of both authors.	2002-01-04
US	50734117	R8DE75OSW01VZ	0671577573	944080987	Serpent's Tooth (Peter Decker & Rina Lazarus Novels)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Top Notch Murder Mystery	Serpent's Tooth was my first exposure to Faye Kellerman and her Peter Decker/Rina Lazarus series and it really was excellent.  Kellerman tells an excellent tale and fills it with realistic characters. <br />In Serpent's Tooth Decker must solve a mystery that challenges his self-image and understanding of his relationship with Lazarus.  While Decker is the street-smart cop and Lazarus is an orthodox Jewish wife who has no direct link the case, it is Lazarus who provides valuable contributions to Decker solving the case.  Kellerman does spend considerable effort in character development and understanding relationships.  However, that aspect complements rather than clashes with the mystery.  The solution of the external mystery is dependent on the understanding of internal mysteries.  The whole effect is mesmerizing.	2002-01-04
US	50734117	RUF48S9TPBXU7	037540662X	181097130	O Is for Outlaw (Sue Grafton)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	O is for OK	O is for Outlaw was my second attempt at Grafton's alphabet series.  I had the bad guy figured out early in N is for Noose.  That story had some flawed detective work.  O is harder to figure out and there aren't any obvious miscues by Kinsey.  O is a much different story that N was.<br />In O Kinsey follows up after her first ex-husband is shot and left in a coma.  While there's detective work involved there are also revelations about Kinsey's first husband and their marriage.  I suppose this is interesting if you are a series aficionado.  Grafton does use it well to round out her enigmatic detective.  Otherwise the story, the links and the related detective work seem a little forced.  However, it's a reasonably good detective story with a more satisfactory conclusion than N is for Noose albeit with some ennui.<br />I did find one technical fault with O is for Outlaw.  A key to the puzzle is a patent used in the Mercury space program.  The patent was supposed to have made its inventor wealthy.  It doesn't happen that way in real life.  NASA volumes are so low that a royalty on a patent probably wouldn't pay the patenting fees.  As the owner of a firm that has done aerospace work said to me, \\"Nobody gets rich supplying to NASA.  Space work is all about prestige.\\"  So a major cornerstone of the novel is reduced to rubble.  Otherwise it holds together reasonably well.	2002-01-04
US	50734117	R19DJKJ6SXQSWK	0679460063	529898130	Unnatural Exposure: A novel (Kay Scarpetta)	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Good mystery, bad philosophy	I listened to Cornwell's earlier Cause of Death and Unnatural Exposure on tape and Unnatural Exposure is better.  ...  Cornwell has created a first class nail biter that is flawed because of artificially created tensions, some poor characterizations and inconsistent philosophy.<br />The mystery/thriller works pretty well on that level.  The plot follows Cornwell's heroine Kay Scarpetta initially through a serial killer's dismemberings to a possibly contagious disease outbreak.  There are twists and turns although the ultimate outcome is no great shock.  Unnatural Exposure follows a standard path although most stories of this ilk have a premature solution that turns out to be false. I.e. the wrong person is arrested or found dead.  In this one an innocent person is arrested but the reader knows it's a false arrest from the word go.  There is also someone found dead but it's pretty obviously not the guilty party.  Along the way we get graphic and gory forensic details of autopsies making the novel unsuitable for reading around mealtime.<br />There are several problems with the novel aside from the mystery.  Cornwell's agenda gets in the way sometimes and she has fillers that detract from the story.<br />Earlier in the story Scarpetta receives pictures via email that are described as gif files.  All the pictures I receive are jpgs.  Maybe this is an indication that the novel is becoming dated.<br />I had a problem with some of the artificially created tensions.  In particular, I found it offensive that airport security people would be portrayed as boobs for doing their jobs.  Scarpetta shows up at the airport with body parts and hazardous materials and the security people and flight attendants are made to look like fools for questioning her the way they do.  It seemed to me that she was the one who deserved the criticism for not notifying them in advance.  Scarpetta also keeps quiet long enough to create confrontations instead of diffusing them and she's supposed to bethe heroine.<br />The characters are generally poor.  Benton Wesley, her sometime lover, is non-descript.  Merino, her friend and sometime foil, has some character.  However, her niece Lucy is really obnoxious.  Cornwell portrays Lucy as being the victim of discrimination because she's a lesbian.  Actually someone this obnoxious is unlikable regardless of sexual orientation.  <br />However, the real holes are in the philosophy that Cornwell puts in.  Essentially, she has a new age non-judgmental philosophy which is fine if it's consistent.  For instance, she refuses to accept that there might be legitimate principled opposition to some of the views that she holds dear.  People with opposing views in Unnatural Exposure are invariably jerks if not crooks.  How judgmental is that to portray those with contrary views in a very judgmental light?  Another problem that I had is Cornwell's dismissal of Scarpetta's affair with the previously married Wesley.  The reader is told that Wesley's colleagues blame her for his marriage's failure when in fact it was Wesley's ex-wife who ran off with another man.  Cornwell ignores a number of things.  First, whether or not Wesley's ex-wife ran off in no way makes their adulterous affair acceptable.  Second, perhaps if Wesley hadn't been fooling around with Scarpetta and had spent more time with his wife then maybe he would have been able to save his marriage.  Third, Wesley should have disabused his colleagues about the cause of his failed marriage.  Allowing Scarpetta to be viewed as a Jezebel seems inappropriate and inconsiderate given Cornwell's non-judgmental tone.  Yet another problem is the penchant for male characters in the novel to approach tears or come to tears under duress.  In particular, why does she portray the gay men in this way?  If as is obvious in the novel she is trying to portray gay people in a positive light and argue that they are just the same as straight people, why don't the gay men \\"take it like men?\\"  Ireally found these logical inconsistencies got in the way of the story.  Cornwell would have a better story if she wasn't trying to preach or if she needs to preach then she should be consistent.<br />Overall it's a good mystery but the non-mystery problems take it down a notch.	2002-01-04
US	50734117	R1M0SCYMDA5CIF	0375504397	237509158	Black House: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Dark sequel to The Talisman	Black House is the sequel to the authors' much earlier collaboration The Talisman.  In the latest entry Jack Sawyer is in his early 30s and a retired policemen living in Wisconsin.  However, there is a serial killer in the woods who is modeled after real life serial killer Albert Fish.  Jack must be lured back from retirement to solve the crimes, which are linked to trouble in the Territories.  The problems within the Territories fit within the framework of the Dark Tower series.  Unlike the Talisman, Black House is a must read for fans of King's Dark Tower series. <br />Readers who devoured The Talisman over the last 17 years will want to read Black House to follow the progression of \\"Traveling Jack\\".  The Talisman reader had every right to expect great things from Sawyer as an adult and will be initially disappointed to find that, after a meteoric rise in police work, he is retired and trying to hide in the back woods of Wisconsin.  It appears that Jack has forgotten all his travels from 20 years before and needs to be jolted to remember the Territories.  So the novel progresses as he reluctantly helps the local police to track down the serial killer and at the same time must recover his past memories.  Both solutions are needed for much bigger reasons related to the Dark Tower.<br />Much of the tone of Black House is playful, the authors doing a little nudge-nudge, wink-wink with the readers.  It can be a bit annoying as one could get the impression that the authors aren't taking it seriously.  On the other hand they could be taking the Somerset Maugham approach, here's a really good story so you sit back and enjoy it.  <BR>Whatever the intent Black House carries more of Straub's voice than The Talisman did.  The Talisman is dominated by King's style, so much so that one struggles to find any of Straub in it.  However, Straub's style is stronger in Black House.  Perhaps this is due to Straub's solo success since The Talisman or perhaps it's due to King's recent injury.  Whatever the cause Black House seems more the work of equals than the master/apprentice relationship of The Talisman.<br />Black House is a first rate novel but not without some problems.  First, the idea of Jack forgetting his travels doesn't fit with the earlier novel.  Jack's father and Morgan Sloat routinely traveled between our world and the Territories.  It isn't reasonable to expect Jack who was the most powerful of all the characters to forget them.  Repressed memory syndrome has been discredited for several years and while it made for some good stories at the time it's just not a viable device.  Second, the denouement is contrived to gild the lily of an otherwise great story.  The third problem I have is that everybody in both The Talisman and Black House who claims to be a practicing Christian is a fake or phony and/or evil.  Considering that some 60% of Americans attend church services regularly, the authors are slamming a large portion of they're potential readership.  King has obviously done a flip since the heroes of Desperation said the Lord's Prayer before heading off to fight the forces of evil.  Fourth, the Tyler Marshall character assumes greater importance as the novel goes on and has powers in the same way that Jack had in The Talisman.  However, this is the same kid who at the start of the novel is hanging around with bullies and dolts.  Why would the remarkable son of a remarkable mother hang around with the losers that he is at the start of the novel?  Fifth, the novel is too long with a lot of filler passages intended to create atmosphere or round out characters who really aren't important.  Stick to the basics guys.<br />The above complaints are relatively minor as the novel is quite good overall.  Some of the characters are excellent especially Henry Leyden, Jack's blind friend.  The Fisherman is a monster modeled after real life killer Albert Fish.  He is without a redeeming characteristic- truly sick.  The atmosphere is well described and there are some passages one would not want to read while alone in the house.  There are also some good insights into human nature.  One passage that was particularly touching was a reflection on all the things we should say to the people who are close to us while we are alive; things we often don't say and wish we had after they are gone.  That passage might be the pearl of great value in Black House.<br />All in all it's a must read for those of us waiting for the next installment of the Dark Tower series.  For King's legion of horror fans, there's plenty of horror to go round.  Straub's fans will enjoy the atmosphere.  It's a worthy entry into the canon of both authors.	2002-01-02
US	50734117	R20L4EKK8W5HHW	0345444884	122553244	The Talisman	Books	4	2	3	N	N	4 Talismans for minor Dark Tower linkages	Even if one wanted to severely criticize this novel, such criticism would little impact.  Stephen King is the most popular author of horror stories in history and Straub is one of the best writing today.  The Talisman sold a bazillion copies when it was first published and will likely rack up another bazillion with the recent release of the sequel Black House.  King and Straub's collaboration is an excellent nail-biting horror/action story that is perhaps overly long but thoroughly engaging otherwise.<br />I'm not a great Stephen King reader having read only his Dark Tower series and I tied into The Talisman because of its linkage to that series.  Are the Territories of The Talisman also the Territories of the Dark Tower?  Perhaps.  King and Straub do make the linkage in the climax of the novel although the reader doesn't need to know anything of the Dark Tower series to enjoy The Talisman.<br />The Talisman is a quest novel in which the hero, twelve-year old Jack Sawyer, must traverse the continent to obtain a talisman that will cure his dying mother.  His travels take him across 1981 America and the Territories which are in another world adjacent to ours.  He encounters evil men, good werewolves and vice-versa along the way to mention only a few of the challenges he faces.  Like most novels of this ilk, the hero and reader understand little of the quest at hand.  There is a much bigger picture than the one initially presented by the authors.  A twelve-year old boy can get into a lot of trouble on his own and Jack Sawyer does that in spades.<br />The USA of 1981 is interesting but the awe is reserved for the Territories.  In spite of the length of The Talisman, the authors only feed the readers bits of it.  Young Jack is never in the Territories long enough that the sense of wonder wears off.  As the novel progresses we understand that the Territories and our world are intertwined and that an action in one is felt in the other.  Is the overflow damage from our world into the Territories a metaphor for our impact on the environment?<br />What's most interesting is to read this novel some 17 years after it was first published.  The authors were obviously taking a shot at the evils of corporate America.  The antagonist, Morgan Sloat, is very much an example of the worst kind of corporate thief and perhaps his actions are a metaphor for the insider trading scandals and corporate downsizing of that era.<br />The Talisman is an exciting, wonder-filled novel that suffers only from excessive length.  The authors could easily have trimmed it down by 100-200 pages without losing an awful lot of the content.  Perhaps they felt the additional bulk was necessary to create the right atmosphere or perhaps they wanted to give the reader his money's worth and they are getting the royalties from it, so it's hard to argue.  All in all it's an excellent if familiar story.	2002-01-02
US	50734117	R1OURWIKQP2WX5	1574090798	970224576	Under False Colours: #10 A Nathaniel Drinkwater Novel (Mariners Library Fiction Classic)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Drinkwater re-dons cloak, unsheathes dagger	Richard Woodman's Nathaniel Drinkwater series has always had a dark Gothic air about it.  The darkest entry was undoubtedly Under False Colours' predecessor A Private Revenge.  Series readers will be happy to know that this entry is nowhere near as dark and tragic as A Private Revenge.  It is perhaps more similar and related to the earlier Baltic Mission.  It's like Baltic Mission in that it is more cloak and dagger than sea story.<br />However, Under False Colours is not a rewrite of Baltic Mission in a different location.  Much has happened to Nathaniel Drinkwater since Baltic Mission and Under False Colours is the conclusion of events that were initiated in Baltic Mission and which propelled the action through In Distant Waters and A Private Revenge.  A Private Revenge left Drinkwater a deeply psychologically scarred man.  In Under False Colours Drinkwater begins to heal the deep wounds left from the horrors of the earlier novel.<br />This entry begins with an attempt to deceive the French by getting them to believe that Britain is supplying military aid to the Czar in defiance of Napoleon's Continental System and his treaty with the Czar.  Things go awry and Drinkwater leads a trading mission into Hamburg and as is typical of this series, twists and turns fall more twists and turns.  The climax occurs at sea following a tense build up and chase.<br />Under False Colours does not have the same level of blood letting that some of the earlier entries in the series had and all Bolitho novels have.  Instead it gradually builds up tension while exploring the conditions in Napoleonic Europe.  What I found particularly interesting was the role of Jewish merchants in Hamburg and London.  The Jews of Drinkwater's Europe have an underground communication system that acts as a conduit to and from the continent.  Woodman nicely underplays Drinkwater's surprise at being treated so well by Jewish merchants.  The kindness of the Jews would have come as a very pleasant surpriseto a Christian of Drinkwater's era, not because we wouldn't expect them to be kind but because the Christians of that era wouldn't.  One can see barriers beginning to fall, as paradigms are broken.<br />Under False Colours is an entertaining novel with some nice surprises in contrast to the nasty ones of A Private Revenge.  It's a worthy entry in the series but not one of the best.  I suspect that it is a bit of a respite from desperate action to follow in the last three years of the war as Woodman brings it home for the reader.	2001-12-31
US	50734117	R11WSMVUWBBAC1	0312867131	77230724	Calculating God	Books	4	2	3	N	N	God it�s good but not great	Robert Sawyer is the greatest science fiction writer that Canada has produced and one of the finest in the world.  In Calculating God, Sawyer doesn't back down from the serious questions that arise when looking at the existence of God.<br />Sawyer's setting is the Royal Ontario Museum in Toronto where an atheistic paleontologist plays host to space aliens who wish to examine fossil records.  Their purpose is to confirm that previous mass extinctions were the work of God using evolution to develop intelligent species.  Our human hero is incredulous and disbelieving of course but then the aliens reel off an incredible barrage of evidence to show that the odds of the universe as we know it existing are for all intents and purposes zero without a creator's plan. While the argument and story line progress our paleontologist is stricken with lung cancer.<br />Calculating God also has a sub-plot that involves bombing an abortion clinic.  One would think that this was a regular occurrence in Canada if one didn't know the difference.  I suspect that Sawyer wrote this sub-plot to fill out the story, create some action and to make his own rather one-sided philosophical point.  Whatever the case, it doesn't fit in Calculating God.<br />Ultimately, Sawyer does come up with an explanation of God that doesn't fit the Judeo-Christian vision nor that of any other major religion although his God is more activist than that of Spinoza.  Sawyer's God suits both his hard science bent and his New Age philosophy.   <br />Calculating God is a very good novel although not a great one.  I believe Robert Sawyer is capable of greatness as he demonstrated with The Terminal Experiment for instance.   There are a couple of problems with Calculating God such as the bombing sub-plot mentioned above and the first person perspective which is logically inconsistent but it's still well worth reading.  Sawyer not quite perfect is better than most writers at their peak.  Maybe next time he will give us that brilliant work that is waiting to come out.  Maybe he needs some divine inspiration.	2001-11-29
US	50734117	R2C50I0ECMMUXH	1570427151	373226516	Pop Goes the Weasel	Books	1	2	6	N	N	Soapoperatic schlock	For me Pop Goes the Weasel was Patterson's second chance after Roses Are Red.  I was disappointed with Roses and decided to try an earlier entry in the series.  Patterson won't get a third chance.<br />Pop Goes the Weasel put me off very early.  Our hero is a widower with small children at home and an extremely time consuming job.  When he has spare time he goes for romance when he really should be spending it with the kids.  Yet Patterson portrays him as a model father.  Frankly, I got disgusted with the combination of over the top villains, attempted family realism and cliched romance.  I gave up.<br />The Alex Cross stories are very popular.  The reason escapes me.	2001-11-29
US	50734117	RC7SF7DMVTFO7	038549744X	710198060	English Passengers: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Rogues sail to encounter with genocide	The key to the title is that the captain and crew of the ship are from the Isle of Man and therefore are Manx not English.  This subtlety might be lost on North America audiences.  There are many other subtleties in this brilliant novel that probably are lost on many readers.  English Passengers is one novel that might bear several re-readings.<br />The novel has a large cast of characters and is told from the points of view of many of them.  The multiple viewpoints tell two converging stories; one being a comic opera excursion from Britain to Tasmania and the other being the tragic story of the genocide of Tasmanian natives.  By providing the converging stories from a plethora of viewpoints Kneale is able to tell a story that is hilarious on one page, tragic on the next and touching on the next.<br />The English passengers of the title are a cleric with a selectively literal interpretation of the Bible, a physician with racial theories that would be comical if they had not been acted out in the 20th century and a ne'er do well son of a wealthy family.  To make their passage to Tasmania they secure the ship of Manx smugglers.  The Manxmen are a delightful bunch of largely incompetent and most harmless rogues.  The story of their trip to Tasmania is often hilarious.<br />The other story is one of genocide against the aboriginal inhabitants of Tasmania.  Although Kneale switches back and forth, the first Tasmanian episodes begin some 30 years before the English episodes.  Kneale shows the genocide as being equal parts planned murder and destruction, misunderstanding and surprisingly good intentions.  Like the English episodes they make fascinating reading.  Unlike the English episodes the Tasmanian setting is not humourous.  Perhaps Kneale juxtaposed the two story lines to provide the humour that is a welcome relief from the genocide.<br />The two stories do converge with great foreboding leading to a fair amount of action and a thrilling climax at sea, not bad for anovel so highly praised as literature. English Passengers works on a number of levels and is very readable.  The only question that I can ask, and this is no reflection on English Passengers, is if this novel is worthy of a Booker nomination, why were the sea stories of Patrick O'Brian ignored for so many years?	2001-11-29
US	50734117	R2SXZJYM6SJ8TY	0935526609	635181808	Enemy in Sight! (The Bolitho Novels) (Volume 10)	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Four Stars although I don�t remember why	I read Enemy in Sight! during the summer and for the life of me I can't remember much of it.  I remember that Bolitho's personal life went south but the details of a book I read so recently are lost.  What I do remember is a land engagement reminiscent of Lieutenant Hornblower and a sea chase at the end leading to a climactic battle.  It was exciting at the time but has blurred with the other Bolitho novels in the last 3-4 months.  Perhaps I read too much Bolitho too soon or perhaps it's that these novels are so formulaic that they all appear the same after awhile.<br />My advice to readers is to read the Bolitho books published before 1980 as this one was.  They were all excellent action stories told with a WWII's veteran's knowledge of the horrors of war. Enemy in Sight! was from this period and I'll give it four stars accordingly even though my memory has failed me.	2001-11-27
US	50734117	R2H5G0JE0K617Z	0312877730	765759687	The Cassandra Complex (Emortality)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Entertaining if not memorable	Stableford has set The Cassandra Complex about 40 years in the future with the seeds of the action sown in our time.  The novel is a prequel to earlier work but stands solidly on its own.  <br />The Cassandra Complex is really more of a techno-thriller than science fiction novel.  The action is more in line with a police thriller than most hard SF.  However, there is enough SF to satisfy fans of the genre.  Stableford tends to fall in the trap when setting mysteries in SF that the investigator knows information about the times that the reader doesn't.  If one likes to solve the mystery based on the clues then the information isn't in The Cassandra Complex to do so.<br />All in all it was a fast-paced enjoyable read, I read it some time ago, but it hasn't stuck with me.  It isn't new or original but it is well constructed.	2001-11-27
US	50734117	R17IMJLESQJJTO	0393308200	80327911	The Surgeon's Mate (Aubrey/Maturin)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Can I give it 6 stars?	The Surgeon's Mate picks up where The Fortune of War left off.  In the previous installment our boys had escaped from Boston just in time to participate in the epic battle between the Chesapeake and the Shannon.  Victorious they arrive in Halifax and more trouble begins.  Aubrey's lack of land sense and Maturin's unrequited love for Diana continue to cause them problems.  In fact they are the underlying tensions that follow them through each episode in the novel.  Along the way we are treated to O'Brian's philosophical discussions between his two quirky heroes and among their assorted friends and associates.  Like the others in the series The Surgeon's Mate is a gem.<br />Unlike earlier novels the action in The Surgeon's Mate is non-stop.  O'Brian, always excellent in his characterization and use of language, has considerably improved the pacing from the earliest series entries.  The reader is treated to the heroes travelling from Halifax to England to the Baltic to Paris and back to England in a rousing tour-de-force.   Does O'Brian lose anything with the faster pace of The Surgeon's Mate?  Absolutely not, he still has the strengths of the earlier books. <br />One aspect of the series that has made it great is the ability of O'Brian to set some of the thorny discussions of our times in the context of the early 19th century.  In The Surgeon's Mate, the abortion issue creates a marvelous balanced tension.  O'Brian's presentation is even handed, airing both sides of the debate but ultimately not choosing sides.  O'Brian has moderated some of the great debates of the last 30 years in his Aubrey Maturin series while providing great naval action along the way.<br />Perhaps it's time to put O'Brian's novels in a special category- six stars.	2001-11-27
US	50734117	R26D1Y852TQ5EC	0679456333	705524126	Cause of Death (Kay Scarpetta)	Books	2	4	4	N	N	Poor Research Damages Potentially Good Thriller	In Cause of Death the mysterious death of a journalist scuba diving around obsolete US warships leads to an investigation that takes several twists and turns. The result is a taught thriller that is marred by flawed research. The investigation is workmanlike but the trail is unpredictable. Cornwell does a good job of leading the reader on. Along the way Cornwell manages to push a couple of politically correct buttons but not enough to stand in the way of the story. There were two serious problems that I did note. First, the element uranium U-238 plays a pivotal role in the story. Cornwell states that the only place that U-238 could be found would be in a research reactor. U-238 is the fuel used in Canadian nuclear reactors that are used in several countries throughout the world. Without spoiling the plot this lack of proper research undermines the whole story which was pretty farfetched to begin with. Second, the story requires the handiwork of a graduate student computer hacker. I had trouble rationalizing that a computer hacker with the skill demonstrated couldn't ensure that a PC disk drive was permanently erased so that no crucial data would be recovered. So, Cornwell has provided the reader with a plot that has too many holes. It's too much of a stretch for the willing suspension of disbelief.	2001-08-27
US	50734117	R1VUUKYWF6AYAO	0375403264	595466515	N Is for Noose	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Loose Ends Choke Story	Since Grafton is into the second half to the alphabet, one can't question her productivity. However, with this many books published in a short period of time something has to give. In \\"N\\" there are some problems including sloppy detective work and an unrealistic climax. Otherwise it is a standard murder mystery that Grafton delivers in workmanlike style. Grafton's protagonist heads for rural California to determine what was troubling a police Chief just before his death from a heart attack. Needless to say her initial inquiries are fruitless as local yokels clam up. Perhaps it is considered chic for urban Californians to portrait their more conservative rural fellow Californians as xenophobic boobs, although Grafton treats them more fairly than Pronzini did in The Sentinels. Our heroine is about to give up when she is assaulted and assumes that something is rotten in California. The subsequent investigation leads to a thrilling climax and somewhat satisfactory conclusion. Overall it's not a bad mystery although, for the plot to work, Grafton has to make her detective ignore a key lead. Furthermore, the climactic scene in which she overcomes the villain is totally unrealistic. I'll probably give Grafton another try, as some of this novel was quite good. Perhaps the problems were due to tight deadlines and Grafton not having the time to get the plot details to work. The place of Miss Marple as the premiere female detective is not threatened based on this entry.	2001-08-27
US	50734117	R1IHKONYKYVOVH	157409078X	853501734	A Private Revenge: #9 A Nathaniel Drinkwater Novel (Mariners Library Fiction Classic)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Darkest Entry to Date in Gothic Naval Series	A Private Revenge continues the series as a direct extension from its predecessor In Distant Waters. Drinkwater proceeds from the conclusion of In Distant Waters by crossing the Pacific and contacting Sir Edward Pellew off the Asian coast. Drinkwater also comes into contact with his nemesis of several novels beginning with The Eye of the Fleet, Morris, who is one of the vilest creatures in the genre. Drinkwater, who is a decent man, fails to understand the lasting grudge that Morris holds for events nearly 30 years previous. His lack of understanding leads to deception and tragedy. For followers of the series who have become attached to the characters, this episode will be painful. A Private Revenge contains action, suspense and Woodmans excellent descriptions of time, place and naval details. However, it is perhaps the darkest novel that I have read of the Napoleonic naval genre. The series has always had strong gothic elements but this entry is the darkest. Its hard to believe but Morris is even viler than in earlier novels. Morris desire for revenge drives the plot and leads to a bloody climax. The writing is up to Woodmans excellent standards but A Private Revenge is a very grim novel. Its only for the hardiest series enthusiasts.	2001-08-27
US	50734117	R1SPW2MOE1KZT8	1574090984	852119835	In Distant Waters: #8 A Nathaniel Drinkwater Novel (Mariners Library Fiction Classic)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Drinkwater Overcomes Adversity in the Pacific	I became addicted to the Nathaniel Drinkwater series with the first installment.  In my opinion the Drinkwater series is greatly underrated in the genre.  Woodman has managed to create a niche between the lyricism of Patrick O'Brian and the furious action of Alexander Kent.  Woodman writes well but sparingly and creates realistic characters with depth.  Drinkwater, his prime creation, is the most realistic of any protagonist in the genre.  He is a decent man who makes mistakes and doesn't always have control of the situation.  He doesn't have the personal magnetism of a Bolitho or Ramage nor does he have the brilliance of a Hornblower.  He does his duty to the best of his ability and ultimately is successful.<br />In Distant Waters starts out ominously where Baltic Mission left off.  Having brought sensitive intelligence back to England Drinkwater and his crew are immediately dispatched halfway round the world more for security reasons than from necessity it appears.  Drinkwater must begin by hanging a deserter who in his own mind shouldn't be hanged under the circumstances.  The demands of duty outweigh all other demands.  The hanging casts a pall over the entire novel and is undoubtedly a motivator for some of the later problems.<br />The route, the date and to some extent the mission are similar to The Happy Return, a trip round the Horn in 1808 to play havoc with the Spanish.  Readers of the genre will know what neither Drinkwater nor Hornblower knew, that the Spanish will change sides.  Like Hornblower in The Happy Return Drinkwater will not find out about the switch in time and must pursue subsequent plans accordingly.  At this point the similarities end.  While Hornblower was in firm command of his ship, Drinkwater's leadership and crew loyalty are tenuous.  Drinkwater has the added complication of needing to deal with the Russians without complete orders.<br />In Distant Waters proceeds from bad to worse and if the reader didn't know this was a series wouldwonder if things could ever work out.  Drinkwater must deal with a crew that quite rightly believes that it has been mistreated (not by Drinkwater's hand), limited information, perfidious and dishonourable enemies, and an overall sense of gloom.  The Drinkwater series is gothic in nature and In Distant Waters is one of the most gothic in the series.  Fortunately for Drinkwater he has his wits about him, his faithful Tregembo and the redoubtable Mr. Q.<br />The novel features only one major sea battle in its climax.  However, there are a number of minor engagements plus a steady progression of action that builds suspense to a thunderous climax.  When the climactic battle occurs, it is a release from the tension and gloom that have built up throughout the novel.<br />The Nathaniel Drinkwater series is excellent and In Distant Waters is a strong entry worthy of inclusion.  If you haven't read the earlier novels read them.  If you have read In Distant Waters then proceed immediately to A Private Revenge.	2001-07-05
US	50734117	R1MNJ3OBBIMDDV	0515059544	745437279	A Ship Must Die	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The Action Doesn�t Die	When Douglas Reeman began writing about the Royal Navy in WWII, he wrote some of the best action stories about the war.  The novels featured one or two reasonably developed characters, a love interest and a supporting one-dimensional cast.  However, he wrote fantastic action scenes and his depiction of naval life rang true.  A Ship Must Die was written when Reeman was consistently delivering nail-biting tension and action.  It is one of his best.<br />A Ship Must Die begins in Australia in January 1944.  A German raider is stalking the shipping in the Indian Ocean.  Since the Indian Ocean is a backwater, the resources to aggressively track it down are not provided.  One battered cruiser, Andromeda, must postpone repairs and pursue the raider.  Complications arise when it appears that there might be not one but two raiders on the prowl.  One cruiser has already disappeared at the hands of the Germans.  Can our heroes survive and defeat the enemy?<br />In typical Reeman fashion the novel builds to a tense climax with all on the line in a final battle.  My only complaint is that the idea of even one German raider roaming the Indian Ocean in 1944 tested the willing suspension of disbelief.  However, in A Ship Must Die it did seem more plausible than in The Iron Pirate where the Germans were out in the Atlantic in 1944.<br />A Ship Must Die ranks up there with HMS Saracen as one of Reeman's best WWII novels.  He stuck to his formula and executed it well.	2001-07-05
US	50734117	R18M6D82N1ZG3F	0061020052	257629486	Infinity Beach	Books	4	1	2	N	N	First Contact Mystery	Are we alone in the universe?  What would be the consequences for humanity if we believed ourselves to be alone?  These are questions McDevitt attempts to answer in Infinity Beach.  Along the way he writes an excellent and unique first contact novel to add to a long list of first contact novels.<br />Infinity Beach is set several hundred years in the future when mankind is ensconced on nine worlds.  There is faster than light travel and communication but no contact has been made with aliens, or has there?  When a young woman begins to investigate the disappearance of her long lost sister (clone) she begins to suspect that there was an earlier contact and that it was covered up.  What follows is a private individual's investigation into a cover up that may or may not be government related.  This type of plot has been done before but McDevitt has given it a unique setting.  The result is a nail biter that reaches a thrilling conclusion.<br />Some of McDevitt's conjectures about the future world are interesting but not all ring true.  For instance, one of the featured characters is a war hero.  I found it hard to believe that a society such as that in Infinity Beach would fight wars.  Furthermore, wars on an interplanetary scale and with technologies advanced several hundred years from our own would be devastating on a staggering scale.  However, the war seems to have let little more societal residue than the U.S. invasion of Grenada.<br />One idea that wasn't much of a stretch was the idea of marriages of various terms with renewal options.  Given the transitory nature of many human relationships in our own time, codifying options in law seems reasonable.  It's also clear that people will continue to suffer emotional pain as relationships fail.<br />I had another problem with the novel in the way that obtaining secret information was depicted.  Security systems would most likely be far more advanced than those of today and the heroes' covert activities detected.<br />Perhaps the most interesting aspect of the novel is McDevitt's depiction of a rich society in decline.  People appear to be playing with their lives without any serious commitments or motivations.  In some ways that future society mirrors our own.  It is very much a secular society, which McDevitt reinforces by using the politically correct designation C.E. for Common Era as opposed to the traditional A.D. for Anno Domini (year of our Lord).  In his earlier Moonfall, McDevitt featured a Christian minister as one of his strongest characters indicating that he doesn't necessarily have an anti-Christian or anti-religious bias.  The point may be that a society without some greater sense of purpose is most likely to look inward and collapse.	2001-07-05
US	50734117	R1NZG04AI3ENGC	1900850486	873523784	Deposition of Father Mcgreevy	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Priest fails to save Irish village	The Deposition of Father McGreevy is the story of the collapse of a small village in Ireland at the start of WWII and in a larger sense represents the disappearance of the old Ireland to be replaced by a new more urban Ireland.  As is typical of a novel which was on the Booker shortlist it can be read on many levels.<br />On the surface the story of a village's dissolution after a disease kills only the women is a dark, gothic and relentless tale of loss and suffering.  It is also shows the weakening of the influence of the Roman Catholic Church, the increasing urbanization of Ireland and numerous human follies.  During Father McGreevy's relentless deposition the reader sees that in spite of his earnest, if sometimes naive, efforts the village is going to fail.  The reader knows that the good Father has been defrocked and that something disastrous has happened to the village but the novel details his futile efforts to prevent what the reader knows is inevitable.  There are signs early in the novel that indicate Father McGreevy's power is not as great as one might think.  For instance, there is a reference to an event years earlier involving the IRA when Father McGreevy is told not to interfere in what turns out to be the execution of a captured English army officer.  How could a Christian man especially a priest turn his back on such an atrocity?  This incident also brings to mind his attitude towards the English.  During the Battle of Britain Father McGreevy and the other residents want the English to win but don't mind seeing them get their noses bloodied a little in the process.  Did they not think that innocent men, women and children were dying in the process?<br />The story is relentless, tragic and well written.  However, there are some flaws.  There are noticeable anachronisms in Father McGreevy's accounts of the war.  There are also anachronisms in the footnotes which were supposed to be written in the 50s but often reflect present day terminology or cite death dates for Irish artists who were alive beyond the 60s.  All in all, it's entertaining and thought provoking although I fail to see why it was a Booker nominee.	2001-07-05
US	50734117	R35ZIUMMF63P2G	1556112084	389538180	The French Admiral	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Lewrie in the Field not the Saddle	Dewey Lambdin is unique in the Napoleonic naval genre; an American writing about the Royal Navy at its high water mark.  Considering that The French Admiral was set during the American Revolution, Lambdin must have felt some interesting conflicts in writing the story.  Lambdin's protagonist Alan Lewrie sees the American Revolution through the darkest moments (from the British perspective) in 1781.   In The French Admiral Lambdin does a great job of not gilding the lily either way.<br />In The King's Coat Lambdin introduced young Alan Lewrie as a classic wastrel and the reader follows his progression to a competent midshipman.  The book is an eclectic mix of ribald adventures and gory battle scenes.  The French Admiral follows in the same vein with the same sense of anarchy until the Battle of Chesapeake Bay when the story becomes darker.  Lewrie et al end up at Yorktown before Washington begins his assault.  At Yorktown we get the sense of a bloody guerilla war that is filled with atrocities from both sides and the sense of hopelessness of the British cause.<br />In Lambdin's notes he mentions that the atrocities committed by Banastre Tarleton were well known and documented and he has assumed that atrocities committed by revolutionaries were prevalent.  Actually he didn't need to assume that as such atrocities were documented and led to Loyalists immigrating to Canada.  Combine examples of man's inhumanity to man with the futility of a lost cause and the darkness of The French Admiral is understandable.  There is also a Kafkaesque element to it, as Admiral DeGrasse of the title never enters the action.<br />The fall of Yorktown should surely strike parallels for contemporary American readers who would remember the fall of Bataan or Saigon or British readers who would remember Singapore.  Unlike Dunkirk very few escaped.  Fortunately for the reader Lewrie's adventures don't end there.  We know his escapades will continue through several more books.   Perhaps this will be the darkest entry of the series.	2001-05-24
US	50734117	RPRIAFHIPRDN2	0671578081	348946541	Komarr (Miles Vorkosigan Adventures)	Books	4	1	4	N	N	SF takes back seat to romance.	Komarr was my first exposure to Bujold's Miles Vorkosigan novels that have been popular for several years.  While not a masterpiece, it was an entertaining read if somewhat slow moving.  In this installment Miles, now an Imperial Auditor investigates an accident that may be part of a larger plot and falls in love.<br />So Komarr is essentially two novels, one of intrigue and one of romance.  In the intrigue portion, Miles is always one step behind the saboteurs reluctant to use his authority when using it would interdict the saboteurs well before the novel's climax.  The romance is somewhat predictable.<br />Women writers typically write better about men than men do about women.  If the reader didn't know that the sex of the writer then the reader might reasonably assume that a man had written the portion of the novel written from Miles vantage.  However, few men could write the segments from Ekaterin's viewpoint.  I found that I was in foreign territory in much of the novel dealing with Ekaterin.  It was instructive to say the least.<br />The novel has some interesting science fiction (although it is vague), suspense and a thunderous climax.  It is slow moving however.  If Komarr was the best of the series, I probably wouldn't be tempted to read any more but I have read that it is one of the weaker entries.  Komarr covers familiar ground but with an interesting and human perspective.  It's worth the read if character and setting take precedence over action.	2001-05-23
US	50734117	R3QJDXTB37ET6O	0935526781	189417809	Ramage & the Freebooters (The Lord Ramage Novels) (Volume 3)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	4 carronades crashing for Ramage 3	In the third installment of the Ramage series, can our hero overcome the mutiny at Spithead, deliver dispatches to 3 separate fleets and solve the mystery of disappearing ships? The fact that there are 15 more novels in the series hints at a successful conclusion.  Of course the redoubtable Ramage will overcome all obstacles and emerge triumphant although not without controversy.  In the first two novels, Ramage was successful but his means of achieving success left him open to criticism.  It would be unreasonable for a first time reader to expect anything any different in Ramage three.<br />Like the first two novels, the action in Ramage and the Freebooters starts early although shots aren't fired until well into the book.  Still the novel builds to a thrilling climax with lots of action along the way.  It's a good read.<br />Pope typically includes mysteries and subterfuge as part of the action in his novels.   In Ramage and the Freebooters there are covert operations, spying, and mysterious goings on.  My only complaint in that regard is that it seemed obvious who was doing the spying.<br />I also had a couple of other concerns about the story.  Ramage finds romance in the Caribbean while Gianna waits at home.  He seems to feel no guilt about establishing another relationship while he is involved with Gianna.  Oh well, this was published in 1969, \\"love the one your with\\" etc.  Also, unless one has a map of the Caribbean, the sailing is confusing, as is the setting in the climax.  Maps would have been a real plus.<br />Pope was a sailor and his knowledge of the sea shows.  He does include some realistic details (his description of the fashioning of the cat for example) but doesn't overburden the story with them.  The Caribbean is a winter vacation spot now but Pope conveys it as the disease infested hellhole that it must have been 200 years ago.  Also, it is clear that Ramage is a born, charismatic leader.  Some people are like that and Ramage conveys natural authority better in this novel than the first two.<br />Ramage and the Freebooters isn't as good as the first two but it is a worthy entry in the series.	2001-05-23
US	50734117	R2I54UO3XI8M7V	0060194251	77138633	Sharpe's Trafalgar: Richard Sharpe & the Battle of Trafalgar, October 21, 1805 (Richard Sharpe's Adventure Series #4)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Cornwell does his duty fivefold	Sharpe's Trafalgar is a recent addition to the Sharpe saga although one of the earliest in chronology.  While I had seen some of the Sharpe movies on TV, Sharpe's Trafalgar was my introduction to the books.  As much of the action occurs at sea, it is has a quite different setting than the other works.  Fortunately, the novel works well in the tradition of novels pioneered by C.S. Forester.<br />Sharpe's Trafalgar begins with Sharpe making friends with a Captain of a third rate Royal Navy ship.  Rating refers to the number of guns as the captain and crew are first rate.  Sharpe books passage back to India on a commercial vessel and after some chicanery participates in a sea chase around the Cape of Good Hope and up the Atlantic, arriving at Cape Trafalgar on October 21, 1806.  On board there are intrigues but it all takes a back seat to the Battle of Trafalgar.<br />Cornwell has done a good job of writing a novel of wooden ships and iron men.  Unlike the heroes of Forester, Woodman or Kent,  his Sharpe has no official standing in the ship although we know that Sharpe won't miss out on any of the action when it comes.  However, by establishing a friendship with the captain we are privy to much of the inner workings of the ship.  Cornwell also provided a sketch of a typical ship so that a reader unschooled in naval literature will understand where everything is.  The sailing details are minimal but I get bored with reading about the t'gallants being let out or the royals being reefed.  If a reader found O'Brian impassible then Sharpe's Trafalgar might be a welcome introduction to the genre.<br />Cornwell also does a superb job of describing the Battle of Trafalgar.  Unlike the most notable writers of the genre Cornwell does not describe a naval battle in elegant terms.  Essentially naval warfare is like a vicious, bloody street fight in which the two fighters get in close and kick, gouge and bite until one falls.  The kicking of the downed fighter only stops when it issure he will no longer get up.  Trafalgar is brutal savage butchery and Cornwell excels in blood and gore.<br />While Sharpe is the hero of the novel, not all of his actions are justifiable.  Some of his actions are totally inappropriate and totally unacceptable even under the circumstances.  Perhaps that's part of the interest in the series is that the hero doesn't always do the right thing.   Paradoxically, I had the most sympathy for one of the villains when he gave his traditional- I'm gonna kill you and here's why- speech.  The man made some good points.  However, Sharpe's Trafalgar is a novel where the good guys wear white hats and the bad guys wear black, so to speak.  Having a hero who does some unconscionable things and a villain who has some legitimate motivation for his evil, make it a little more interesting.<br />One thing that Cornwell communicates very well is Nelson's charisma. Sharpe's Trafalgar has the best presentation of Nelson of any novel of the era that I have read.  Not only does he present Nelson's power to the reader but he also shows how the Royal Navy would follow him without question.  The brief passages that include Nelson are almost inspiring and certainly very inspired.<br />Although Cornwell does not typically write in the hearts of oak genre, he could.  Perhaps Sharpe won't go back to sea but let's hope that Cornwell's pen does.	2001-05-23
US	50734117	R1YIFPBIUBYPS2	0375410546	388721998	When We Were Orphans	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Shanghaied by the Narrator	Kazuo Ishiguro's novels seem to revolve around people who are idiot savants, people who are brilliant in an area requiring narrow, focused attention but not functional in more general aspects of their lives.  In Remains of the Day he gave us a butler who was exceptional at his duties but oblivious to the fact that he was working for a Nazi.  In When We Were Orphans the reader is presented with an apparently brilliant detective whose limitations are revealed as the story progresses.  Since the novel is told in the first person, the protagonist's blind spots are not revealed directly but through inference.  Ishiguro carefully conceals the narrator's inadequacies not only revealing what he doesn't know but also hiding what he does know.<br />When We Were Orphans is structured as a detective novel with the detective reminiscing on his case.  The case in question is the disappearance of his parents in Shanghai more than 20 years before.  The solution of the mystery and the climax of the novel occur in Shanghai at the start of World War II.  The resolution does take a twist but most of the clues were provided along the way.  The reader can be confused not from an excess of irrelevant detail and red herrings but because the narrator keeps so much to himself.<br />The novel can be read on a larger scale as a metaphor for and commentary on the fall of the British Empire.  The great British Empire was never larger than it was just before World War II.  However, its inability to recognize the dangers from both Nazi Germany and Imperial Japan combined with a value system that was not consistent with its behaviour led to its rapid demise.  The narrator's attempts to solve the mystery of his parents' disappearances in war torn Shanghai highlight the worst magnificence of the British Empire.<br />When We Were Orphans was nominated for the Booker and I can see why.  It is well written and thought provoking although I am a little annoyed with the use of the unreliable narrator technique.  Still it works as a whodunit and it has much more depth than a standard mystery novel.  It's very difficult to write a novel that satirizes a genre and yet is a good example of the genre as well.  I am not totally convinced that Ishiguro pulled it off but he came close.	2001-05-15
US	50734117	R2N9D36XPJF3AS	0451163524	511631376	The Drawing of the Three (Dark Tower)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Draws Five Stars	Steven King is such a large part of our popular culture that it amazes me that The Drawing of the Three is his first novel that I have actually read.  Everyone has probably seen at least one Steven King movie or miniseries and yours truly is no exception.  I was drawn into The Dark Tower series after listening to an audiotape version of The Gunlinger.  Now I am hooked. <br />The series so far is an eclectic mix of science fiction, fantasy, western and general quest themes.  There is also King's relentless fascination with the macabre and the horrible.  Following the events in The Gunslinger, Roland is attacked and gravely wounded by huge lobster like creatures.  Roland must not only survive but also draw travelling companions from our world, specifically New York, of the 60s, 70s, and 80s.  To do so he has to enter the minds of a drug addict, a black woman with dual personalities and a serial killer.<br />The Gunslinger was set almost exclusively in Roland's world as it \\"moves on.\\"  In The Drawing of the Three the action alternates between the New Yorks and the world where Roland is near death.  Roland sees our world as one of great wealth with inattentive people.  He prefers his world but enter ours to draw what he needs for his quest.<br />The Drawing of the Three is tension filled and action packed.  It's enjoyment for traditional King fans as well as non-King readers such as me.	2001-05-10
US	50734117	R2ZZN5T40WX3H	0316289019	882666727	Admiral Hornblower in the West Indies	Books	5	4	5	N	N	5 Howling Hurricanes for Horatio Hornblower!	C.S. Forester was at his best when he stuck to the short story or novella sizes. Admiral Hornblower in the West Indies is a series of several short stories set during a 3 year period when HH is assigned command of the Royal Navy in the West Indies.  What could go wrong in the West Indies at that time one wonders?  After all, the Napoleonic and 1812 Wars were over.  Britannia ruled the waves.  What could go wrong?  Well, lots could go wrong and does for HH in this charming collection of exciting short stories.<br />Horatio Hornblower, now in his mid-40s with a wife and son in England, has to police the entire Caribbean for slavers and pirates with limited resources now that the world is at peace.  Furthermore, he can't upset the sensibilities of the Americans who are laying down the Monroe Doctrine or the Spanish who have Simon Bolivar on their doorstep.  Furthermore, the spectre of Bonaparte, defeated but still defiant in his St. Helena exile, still hangs over HH's head.<br />In each of the short stories HH faces an apparently insoluble problem that he must solve in his usual self-doubting manner.  By creating a group of short stories that covers the length of his assignment in the West Indies CSF managed to provide a more complete summation of HH's experiences than if he had tried to write the book as a novel.  There is plenty of action in the novel although it's not as bloody as earlier efforts or anywhere near as bloody as Kent's efforts.  HH has to think his way through problems not hack and slash his way through.  It's also good as an HH reader to see that our hero has become a happier man after 25 years of war and sorrow.  In Admiral Hornblower in the West Indies we have our hero enjoying himself as he does what he does best and as only he can do it.	2001-05-10
US	50734117	R2MA2OJ25BLIBY	0393308138	723130322	The Fortune of War  (Aubrey / Maturin)	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Best in the series to date!	The Aubrey/Maturin series seems to get even better with each installment. The Fortune of War begins with Lucky Jack bringing his ship into port after the events of Desolation Island and reaches a thunderous conclusion with historical battle between the Chesapeake and the Shannon.  In between O'Brian provides the reader with naval disasters, naval battles, cloak and dagger, tense escapes and even a cricket game!  All this is set against the backdrop of the opening months of the War of 1812.  The reader lives through unexpected reverses at sea and unanticipated successes on land in what is a tragic and senseless war.<br />In The Fortune of War Aubrey and Maturin spend much of their time in the United States where Louisa Wogan and Diana Villiers of early books reside.  The reader gets an excellent feel for the period and place.  Interestingly, in what appears to be a nod to modern readers, O'Brian cites the low taxes in the USA.  Also, many modern readers might be surprised to read how unpopular \\"Mr. Madison's War\\" was at the time.  Ironically what was a nasty, vicious war on the Canada/US border was a gentleman's war at sea.  Officers were paroled and free to roam the streets in an enemy city.  Ships' captains could write courteous letters to enemy captains inviting them out to engage in bloody naval conflicts.  Perhaps the greatest irony was that the two societies with the freest men were engaging in a wasteful conflict while a tyrant was running roughshod over Europe.<br />Perhaps the most interesting perspectives for the naval buff are O'Brian's explanations of initial American successes at sea and their affect on British morale.  According to O'Brian American frigates (the largest class they had available) outgunned their RN counterparts.  Furthermore, many of their officers and men had learned their gunnery skills on RN ships.  However, the RN was also the victim of some its own policies and past successes.  The restrictions on the use of gunpowder in practice left Captains without independent means the opportunity to maintain crews with a high level of fighting efficiency.  Furthermore, the systems of privilege and patronage had put a number of excellent captains on shore and poor or mediocre captains at the helms of fighting ships.  Nelson's successes were also a problem.  His approach to attacking French and Spanish ships was inadequate for better trained American crews.  For the RN, which had a magnificent track record for decades culminating with Nelson's victory at Trafalgar, the few relatively insignificant tactical losses to the Americans were devastating to morale.  Aubrey's reaction demonstrates this thoroughly.  The fact that ships like the Constitution were severely damaged and out of action for long periods after victories did not satisfy.  Nor did the victories on land in Canada.<br />The Fortune of War features some of the best action sequences that O'Brian put on paper.  In particular, the historical battle sequences are riveting.  The reader also gets to see the good Dr. Maturin as a man of action.  Somewhat surprisingly the gentle doctor can be quite ruthless when the need arises.  Rescued from torture by Jack Aubrey earlier in the series, it is now Maturin who plays the role of rescuer.<br />O'Brian has succeeded in providing his most action packed novel to date without sacrificing any of the use of language and insight into human nature that have been constants in the series.   This is the best entry to date in what may be the greatest historical series written.	2001-03-22
US	50734117	R36OMCDEU4WTH2	0671042742	364376928	The Honourable Schoolboy	Books	5	21	22	N	N	5 Spent Spies Against Asian Backdrop	The Honourable Schoolboy is the fifth Le Carre novel featuring the enigmatic George Smiley.  After unmasking the mole in Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy Smiley is put in charge of the Circus, a position he should have had years ago based on merit.  It appears that Smiley is one of many who were put out to pasture by Bill Haydon's nefarious activities over the previous years.  Smiley, starting with his closest circle, must work backwards ruthlessly discarding people with questionable loyalty or little competence and finding others like himself who were purged by Haydon.  In the process he finds Jerry Westerby living quietly in Italy.  Westerby is resurrected and sent to Hong Kong to foil Smiley's arch-nemesis Karla.  The result is an epic tour de force with Westerby's journeys throughout South East Asia presenting a fascinating counterpoint to Smiley's group working inside the Circus. <br />The Honourable Schoolboy contains a cast of fascinating characters.  Smiley himself is the classic anti James Bond.  He is middle-aged, plump and bespectacled.  Unlike Bond he is not a ladies' man.  In fact, his wife is serially unfaithful to him.  In Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy his wife's infidelities were used by Karla to undermine him.  Smiley has sacrificed whatever he had of a marriage to remove his vulnerability.  Westerby is a stark contrast to Smiley; tall, athletic and a womanizer.  In contrast to Smiley he lets his own torn emotions affect the way he does his work.  There are also large assortments of supporting characters who are naive or scheming.  It also features two of the most vicious characters ever employed in novels; Fawn and Tiu.  Le Carre rarely showing any of their direct handiwork accentuates their viciousness.<br />The novel has Le Carre's usual themes; betrayal, misdirected love and the use of an opponent's human vulnerability against him.   The betrayals in The Honourable Schoolboy towards the end are perhaps the most multi-layered and intense of any Le Carre novel.  If the reader wants a James Bond type ending with Bond having killed the enemy and gotten the girl, The Honourable Schoolboy should be skipped.  Le Carre's novels are of  \\"the no good deed goes unpunished school\\".  However, he is extremely adept at revealing the story details much like peeling the layers of an onion.  His characters whether good or evil, most being somewhere in between, are fascinating and believable.  The insider's knowledge of espionage shines through as always.  The Honourable Schoolboy also contrasts the East with the West.  The fall of Cambodia and Vietnam are especially poignant backdrops to the story.<br />Perhaps it is difficult to understand in this day what the cold war environment was like.  It's instructive to read a novel like The Honourable Schoolboy that was written a quarter of a century ago to understand.  The novel contains a lot and probably requires several readings to thoroughly appreciate all the nuances.  However, based on the first reading The Honourable Schoolboy is superb.	2001-03-13
US	50734117	R28ZKF22SCT07Z	0935526595	315640613	Form Line of Battle! (The Bolitho Novels) (Volume 9)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The Title Tells It All!	The title really tells it all in this one.  Kent is at his best delivering naval action after naval action.  It's all here; cutting out actions, land assaults, night actions, fire ships, nasty sword play and ships of the line delivering thundering broadsides.  Nobody delivers the action like Kent did at his peak. Form Line of Battle is one of the best of the first 9 (in chronological order) if not the best.<br />Form Line of Battle was the second Bolitho novel published following To Glory We Steer.  Kent put 10 years between the 2 novels and then filled in the gaps over the next 2 decades with novels of varying quality.  Not surprisingly Form Line of Battle flows relatively seamlessly from the earlier novel and is consistent with the stories in between.  None of the action from its immediate predecessor, With All Despatch, is even hinted at.  That's just as well as With All Despatch is one of the weaker between the wars novels.  The Richard Bolitho of Form Line of Battle is a much less tragic figure than the one in With All Despatch..<br />While Form Line of Battle is a classic action romance, Kent does include the realism one would expect from a World War II veteran writing at the height of the Vietnam War.  The battle scenes are exciting but violent and realistic.  Men die horribly or are mutilated painfully and Kent doesn't hide it.  He does not glorify the war or its deeds.<br />The story itself is set against the backdrop of an invasion of Toulon which the reader knows is going to fail.  The futility of this invasion and the diversion that Bolitho leads must have struck cords with Vietnam era readers.  Other Vietnam era references are apparent such as \\"peace with honour\\" although In Gallant Company had more obvious allegories.<br />Kent is not great at characterization or dialogue.  If you want them in the Napoleonic era then you have to steer to O'Brian.  However, he does manage to provide a thoroughly unlikable commanding officer with some depth and some sympathy.  But primarily Kent is read for the action at sea in a bygone era and in Form Line of Battle he delivers in spades.	2001-02-14
US	50734117	R2C6CGHE4SFPKY	0935526617	479252724	With All Despatch (The Bolitho Novels) (Volume 8)	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Bolitho Battles North Sea Smugglers	With All Despatch is chronologically the last of Kent's pre-Napoleonic Wars Bolitho novels.  It is also the most recently written depicting that era.  As such it is one of his most polished if somewhat familiar.<br />Kent has used the structure of With All Despatch before.  Essentially he has written the novel in two linked sections with a mini-climax in the first followed by the major climax and denouement in the second.  In Gallant Company was particularly effective using this format and in With All Despatch  the two sections are linked even more solidly.<br />In this entry Bolitho who is still mourning the loss of his lady must obtain men for His Majesty's service while battling smugglers on England's North Sea coast.  Complicating the matter is possible collusion between a senior officer and the smugglers.  The head smuggler seems unreachable and there is an obvious parallel with organized crime and drug cartels of today.   As the novel progresses it is also obvious that France and England will be at war soon.  Can Bolitho meet all of his objectives and defeat his enemies?  To provide a clue, the series will continue with many more novels for 23 more years.<br />In spite of being a popular series the reader has to know that Richard Bolitho is a tragic figure.  The chronology in most books shows his death in 1815.  By With All Despatch Bolitho has lost both his parents and his brother who turned traitor before dying.  His faithful sidekick Stockdale was killed after nearly 10 years with him and Bolitho notes that his replacement Allday has been with him for 10 years.  The reader has to be waiting for the other shoe to drop with Allday.  The series could be really depressing if Kent didn't fill the novels with nail biting tension and thrilling action sequences.   Kent's obvious knowledge of sailing and love of the sea also provide charm to the series.<br />With All Despatch is one of Kent's most polished.  Perhaps it doesn't have the fire and intensity of earlierofferings but it is still good.  While the entire series is violent some of this novel is particularly gruesome.  I wouldn't recommend With All Despatch for younger readers unlike the earlier novels.	2001-01-08
US	50734117	R2IFY8P4FHJ8SW	039330812X	878853693	Desolation Island (Aubrey/Maturin)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	LeCarre in the South Atlantic	Aubrey and Maturin are back at it again in a combination period piece, sea chase and spy story.  As usual action is subordinated to the use of language and period detail although O'Brian manages to build nail-biting suspense into the story.<br />Desolation Island begins with the two protagonists having their problems on land.  Aubrey, who has become wealthy as a result of his participation in the Mauritius Campaign, is being cheated and swindled on land.  Maturin again tries to contact Diana and is addicted to laudanum.  Both men need to go back to sea.  In this installment the duo have to transport convicts to New South Wales and retrieve William Bligh who has survived yet another mutiny.  The convicts may include a spy and Maturin must use his counter-intelligence expertise.  They are also undermanned from plague and must face a grueling sea chase in the South Atlantic.<br />While the story itself is exciting O'Brian, as always, uses the novels as a vehicle to discuss universal problems with humanity.  For instance, Maturin's addiction to laudanum is as relevant to day as it was when it was written and when it was set.  Appropriate punishment for crime is still a question.  A possibly fatal voyage to New South Wales and exile for often relatively minor crimes was harsh by our standards.  Perhaps some of our punishments will seem harsh and some lenient 200 years hence.<br />The spy story is perhaps the most crucial thread running through the novel.  Maturin, an Irishman, has subordinated his dislike of English rule in order to fight the greater tyranny of Napoleon.  To succeed he must employ methods that are akin to the enemy he fights.  Desolation Island is in some ways similar to contemporary works by LeCarre such as The Honourable Schoolboy or The Spy Who Came in From the Cold.  It is the spy story that has the most tension and provides the ultimate climax.<br />While it has a bit of slow start Desolation Island is another solid entry in an excellent series.	2001-01-05
US	50734117	R39HXXVZ9A6ICT	1574090976	960736723	Baltic Mission: #7 A Nathaniel Drinkwater Novel (Mariners Library Fiction Classic)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	More Cloak and Dagger than Broadsides	Richard Woodman is perhaps the most underrated writer of naval action novels.  His Nathaniel Drinkwater series, of which Baltic Mission is the seventh, combines realism, action, excellent characterization, and a gothic thread running through it.  Drinkwater, who is a very decent man although not simplistically so, has to face various levels of human evil and depravity.  Drinkwater has had three nemeses woven in and out of the series; the vile Morris from his first ship, the evil but cunning Edouard Santhonax, and his own wayward brother Edward.  In Baltic Mission Drinkwater deals with two out of the three.<br />The time is 1807 and Napoleon has been checked but not defeated at Eylau.  Only Csar Alexander of Russia is able to stand against Napoleon and Drinkwater is sent to the Baltic to provide encouragement/assistance to the Russians.  However, Alexander may be tiring of his fight against Napoleon and Drinkwater must be sure that he doesn't enrich a potential enemy.  A mission to find out the status of the combatants is in order.   Along the way Drinkwater has to deal with his irascible First Lieutenant Sam Rogers who is descending into alcoholism.<br />Drinkwater is now in his 40s and suffering from his wounds.  Series regulars Mr. Q. and Tregembo are back.   Tregembo is now described as an old man although his age before was never specifically mentioned.  I had the impression that Tregembo was a few years older than Drinkwater but he seems to have reached old age in one novel.<br />Much of Baltic Mission takes place on land so it doesn't have the same level of naval action that other novels in the series have although the rousing conclusion is in keeping with earlier series entries.  This one is more cloak and dagger with continued gothic elements and suspense.  While Baltic Mission doesn't have the same intensity as Eye of the Fleet or sense of grand tragedy as 1805 it's still an entertaining read and perhaps a bit of a change of pace.  To this point there havebeen no bad entries in the series and given Woodman's writing ability I doubt there will be.	2000-12-12
US	50734117	R3TXU6ZWEFENVJ	156100412X	694966847	Brothers (Nova Audio Books)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	2 sibling rivals in search of a good story	Ben Bova usually writes workmanlike science fiction novels that are stronger in the exploration of scientific ideas than in characterization.  In Brothers, Bova tries to work on characterization and fails miserably.<br />The story is about two brothers, Arthur and Jesse Marshak, who are opposing each other in a science trial.  Arthur has been developing the technology to re-grow organs, a technology that may have led to the death of one his employees.  Against this backdrop, the sibling rivalry of the brothers is played out.  The story of the problems with the technology isn't bad but the characters just are too unbelievable.<br />Arthur Marshak is the older brother and a good and decent man.  His brother Jesse is portrayed as selfish and self-centred early on but becomes more likable as the story progresses.  Jesse is either a jerk or he isn't and Bova doesn't give him enough complexity to balance it.  Nor does he undergo a conversion of great significance during the story.  Jesse's characterization is bad but his wife Julia's is abysmal.  Julia is portrayed as the most sympathetic and compassionate individual in the story.  Yet this woman quite literally goes from Arthur's bed to Jesse's.  In real life actions like this break up families and are not done by caring, compassionate individuals.  Subordinate characters fare no better.  The key politician is stereotypically just out for votes.  The fundamentalist Christian preacher is unprincipled and perhaps even a crook.  It strikes me that writers can only get away with these types of attacks on Protestants and the stereotypes are highly discriminatory.<br />Will the science trial turn out favourably?  Will the two brothers be reconciled?  The conclusion doesn't make a lot of sense.  Bova can do better.	2000-11-02
US	50734117	R37RYLC7SZSITP	0375402691	407756967	Tom Clancy's Net Force:#1	Books	4	0	1	N	N	4 dangerous assassins foiled	Unlike most of Tom Clancy's work, Net Force is set far enough in the future to be considered Science Fiction.  It is set roughly 10 years in the future and features an interesting vision of the internet as a backdrop.  Otherwise it is a typical Clancy thriller.<br />Net Force begins with the assassination of the Director of Net Force, an assassination that leads to the appointment of the protagonist to the directorship.  Our hero must figure out who murdered his predecessor, determine what is causing problems on the Net, keep his political masters at bay, manage his professional life and balance his personal life in the process.  Perhaps the hardest part for him will be to stay alive so that he can succeed in these endeavours.  In true Clancy fashion Net Force features assassins, martial arts experts, strike forces and nail-biting tension leading to a thrilling climax.  It was a thoroughly enjoyable guilty pleasure.  I especially enjoyed the vision of the Net as an electronic highway being navigated by virtual automobiles.<br />The novel is not without some problems.  For instance, it features a female martial arts master who easily thumps a man with a 2nd degree black belt in karate.  I had several problems with the scene.  First, the martial art is either obscure or fictitious.  Given the power that the young lady demonstrates, I doubt that such an art could remain obscure in this day and age.  Second, even though the karate guy has a black belt, he acts like a complete ass with his art.  That's possible but then he is portrayed as a nice guy afterwards.  The characterization is inconsistent.  Third, the karate man is subsequently portrayed as a fast learner.  Why did he get beaten so easily?  Fourth, let's face it, a big man is going to be able to beat someone much smaller than he is unless there is a tremendous disparity in skill level.  It just doesn't make sense that someone with that level of karate training could be pummeled so easily.  Clancy set the confrontation up to make the story work and it doesn't ring true.  However, the willing suspension of disbelief is possible for most of the story.  This scene was a minor annoyance overall.<br />Net Force is an exciting thriller without any serious themes that get in the way of the action.  Don't take it too seriously but enjoy the ride.ntation up to make the story work and it doesn't ring true.  However, the willing suspension of disbelief is possible for most of the story.  This scene was a minor annoyance overall.<br />Net Force is an exciting thriller without any serious themes that get in the way of the action.  Don't take it too seriously but enjoy the ride.	2000-11-02
US	50734117	R2TK59NXTBKXRT	0671795740	778039193	The Gripping Hand	Books	3	3	6	N	N	3 Motie hands, none gripping too tightly	Niven and Pournelle are, in my opinion, the greatest science fiction writing partnership since Frederick Pohl and C.M. Kornbluth.  On a good day, they are even better.  The audiotape version of The Gripping Hand was not their best day.<br />The Niven/Pournelle partnership seems to work best when Niven kicks in the futuristic afterburners and Pournelle fills out military details.  This combination made The Legacy of Heorot one of the greatest action science fiction novels of all time and had non-SF readers turning the pages of Footfall.  The Mote in God's Eye was also a nail-biting winner.  The sequel should have been a worthy successor.  However, the guys missed it or perhaps the people who trimmed it down for the audiotape version missed it.<br />The Gripping Hand is the sequel to The Mote in God's Eye. After a blockade that has lasted for 25 years, the Moties are ready to break out.  Such a break out would lead to chaos as the Moties, with their high reproductive rates and species specialization, would inevitably conflict with humans and be formidable, perhaps unbeatable, foes.  Commander Blaine from the first novel, his wife and children and helped develop a method of birth control that would eliminate the major concern of the Moties' aggressive expansion.   However, the Moties are at war with themselves and might break out before appropriate alliances can be made and necessary persuasion applied.   Can an uncontrolled Motie breakout be stopped and humanity saved from a massive war?  Read on and see.<br />The abridged version of the novel is read reasonably well.  The reader picked up on the allusions to the British Empire reading appropriate parts with a passable English accent.  However, while using the English accent he still used the American pronunciation for lieutenant.  If he was going to follow the allegory, he should have gone the distance.<br />There is an underlying subtext in the two books about sexuality and the impossibility of controlling it.  Birth control is the proposed solution although, as we have discovered, it has not solved humanity's social ills.  In my opinion, the guys should not have returned to the Mote.  The conclusion of the first novel implied the solution that is presented in the second.  In this day and age can writers not leave something to the imagination?  Or is writing a sequel too lucrative.	2000-10-26
US	50734117	R310BADSB86AXQ	039330762X	350671306	The Mauritius Command (Aubrey/Maturin )	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Politics and broadsides in the Indian Ocean	O'Brian's Aubrey/Maturin series seems to get better with every book.  I found the first, Master and Commander, hard slugging and gave the series a second try based on recommendations and the publicity following the author's passing.  It has been well worth the second try.<br />Unfortunately, The Mauritius Command reveals the second strategic error that the author made in writing the series.  The first error was starting it in 1800 leading to some historical crowding later on.  Similarly, the author has let several years slide since HMS Surprise contributing further to the crowding.  I have read that the author regretted his timing of the series although in fairness too him it wasn't obvious that Aubrey/Maturin would catch on and that he would ultimately complete 20 novels covering an 18-year period.  The novel itself has few flaws and is well paced.<br />Jack Aubrey has spent the intervening years in wedded bliss although his circumstances and life away from the sea have not been kind to him.  Not only is Jack Aubrey married but he also has twins.  The opening pages make me wonder what married life would have been like for Mr. Darcy and Elizabeth had Jane Austen written a sequel to Pride and Prejudice.  The allusions are there and the writing is good enough for O'Brian to pull it off.<br />The Mauritius Command really picks up when the duo return to the sea bound for Capetown and a campaign against the French held islands of La Reunion and Mauritius.  Aubrey is to fly a Commodore's pennant and administer a hiding to the French.  However, he has to deal with an untrustworthy admiral, captains with varying abilities and fighting spirit and personality conflicts.   The tension builds steadily and there is more action than in earlier novels.  The conclusion is anti-climactic although it is very neatly tied together.<br />The Mauritius Command was published at roughly the same time as Kent's Passage to Mutiny.  Both are examples of the authors at their peaks.  O'Brian isclearly the better writer of the two but he doesn't deliver the action the way Kent does.  Still if events didn't happen as O'Brian relates, he did a superb job of catching the flavour of the times.  He was a great author and The Mauritius Command demonstrates this thoroughly.	2000-10-26
US	50734117	R2NBU95NXAML8F	0935526501	448098623	Command a King's Ship (The Bolitho Novels) (Volume 6)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Good sea story but not great.	Alexander Kent's novels are typically filled with action.  Chronologically earlier entries in the series like In Gallant Company, Sloop of War, Stand Into Danger and To Glory We Steer were all action-packed page turners.  In Command a King's Ship Kent attempts to do the same but I didn't find the results as satisfactory.  It's a good read and a must for series aficionados but it's not one of his best.<br />In this entry with key survivors from To Glory We Steer, Captain Richard Bolitho is off to the East Indies where piracy is alive and pirates can set up private empires.  Europe is now at peace and Bolitho must cooperate with his former Spanish adversaries.  However, things go awry well before they leave the Atlantic Ocean.  At their destination, Bolitho faces two formidable adversaries.  He also has to face his nemesis within the British administration.  There are nefarious schemes to be unraveled and fierce battles to be fought.  All the elements are in place for a superb action story.<br />Bolitho also falls for the wife of an administrator adding romance to the story.  Perhaps this element is a little too formulaic.  Needless to say the husband is a cad.  Perhaps it would be more interesting if her husband had been a decent man and the tension created by them both not wanting to hurt him would have been greater.  As it stands, the fact that a woman is married to a nasty man is long-standing literary justification to conduct an adulterous affair.<br />The novel progresses with Bolitho torn over his professional duties and his personal desires.  The romance is fluff and the battle scenes are fairly good.  One problem that I have with Kent's novels and this one in particular, is that Kent doesn't set the reference for the battles.  If Bolitho is approaching an island, it's not clear from which direction.  Does the port face north, south, east or west?  Is the land on the starboard or larboard side?  Which way is the wind blowing?  The reader rarely gets enough information to clearly understand what's going on?<br />It's a good story but not one of his best.	2000-10-26
US	50734117	R16DUUHUZR674K	0553280813	752374821	Down the Long Hills: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	5 Golden Spurs as little boy lost makes his way	Having seen a number of movies and TV shows based on Louis L'Amour's novels, and having listened to a number of his stories on audiotape, I thought I would read some of his stories that won Golden Spur awards.  To my surprise Down the Long Hills was the only one I could find.  It is an excellent tale and a winner on all accounts.<br />Down the Long Hills is really a novella.  The paperback version is only 150 pages long and a quick read.  I almost gave up on it because I thought it was a children's story.  While it is written simply enough such that a juvenile reader could enjoy it, it is written for adults.  The reader can identify what it is like to be a child in the wilderness, abandoned and without parents.  A parent can identify with the fear of losing a child.<br />The story features a 7-year-old boy and a 3-year-old girl who follows him escaping an Indian massacre.  The boy, appropriately named Hardy, must try and find his father while being tracked by Indians and 2 crooks.  Hardy uses every trick he has learned in his short life to throw the bad guys off his trail yet leave signs for his father.  Eventually all parties converge for a rip-snorting climax.<br />This is a great western, if not politically correct, in this day and age.  The only problem that I had with it is that some of the dates don't work.  Hardy's father was supposed to be over 15 when the Royal Navy pressed him.  Yet the story is set in 1848.  Given that the Napoleonic wars ended 33 years before the story and that the Royal Navy had to downsize decommissioning sailors not pressing them, Hardy's father is either a lot older than he seems in the story or L'Amour has an anachronism.  However, this is a minor point.<br />Down the Long Hills is a great story and shows why L'Amour should have received more critical acclaim than he did.	2000-10-26
US	50734117	R1EV3FMWV841PB	0515100536	280019157	The Aviators (Brotherhood of War, Book 8)	Books	2	3	15	N	N	The Aviators doesn�t get off the ground	The Aviators was my first exposure to Griffin and what a disappointment!  I had been led to believe that Griffin's novels were action packed, battle filled and that Griffin was a latter day Forester or MacLean.  Perhaps he is in other novels but this one proceeded like a made-for-TV prime time soap.<br />The action starts in Vietnam in 1963.  Our hero is wounded in a bungled operation and returns to the U.S. to become an aide-de-camp for one year.  During the year and change he distinguishes himself and falls for the widow of a friend.  He and his CO also must establish the viability of airmobile infantry, demonstrating that army helicopter pilots can transfer large units.  There is little action and the story line is predictable.  Subplots are predictable as well.<br />In fairness to Griffin, I listened to an abridged audiotape and it might have been poorly abridged.  However, I didn't get the sense that there was an awful lot here to begin with.  Gerald McRaney's clipped reading doesn't help it either.	2000-10-26
US	50734117	R3KD9FLE1X1GIY	0935526587	809884142	Passage to Mutiny (The Bolitho Novels) (Volume 7)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	5 Pacific Paradises Plundered	Passage to Mutiny is the fourth Kent novel set outside of an actual war and the fourth that deals with pirates.  In the past Richard Bolitho has ultimately enjoyed great success against pirates while Kent has had mixed success writing about it.  This time Kent gets it right in a nail biting, blood and thunder epic.  Perhaps Kent's Bolitho adventures reached their peak in the mid-70s and Passage to Mutiny is an example of the writer in top form.<br />Five years after Command a King's Ship Bolitho is off to Botany Bay.  The spectre of two famous captains, Cook and Bligh, hangs over the voyage.  Cook explored much of the region and was ultimately killed in the Pacific and Bligh has just lost his ship to mutiny.  While he may have fears of mutiny, Kent's Bolitho has both the leadership abilities and humanity of Cook and the seafaring ability of Bligh.  His crews will stand with him to the death.<br />Bolitho's paramour and nemesis from Command a King's Ship are both back to complete the story that Kent started in the earlier novel.  While reading Command a King's Ship I was thinking that Bolitho should back off from having a relationship with a married woman no matter what her husband is like, Kent had me thinking that Bolitho should go for it and squeeze whatever happiness he could out of the opportunity that he had.<br />However, Passage to Mutiny is really about broadsides, thwarting pirates and a great sailing epic.  The romance is just a little fluff along the way while manly men do manly things.  The story is exciting and succeeds on that level.  I did have a few problems with it though.  Kent is not always clear on details such as how the wind is blowing, what direction the shore is and the way ports face.  He really should include maps or provide additional details so that the reader can visualize what's happening accurately.  One can't always figure out why Bolitho is so brilliant if one doesn't know which way the wind is blowing and which direction the ship issailing.<br />Still and all I was wrapped up in this one and I look forward to the next Bolitho adventure.	2000-10-24
US	50734117	R5LPDGI3FSHA2	0140863184	562576523	Desperation	Books	5	2	2	N	N	King at his scariest	Stephen King has a standard formula that has made him one of the best selling authors of all time.  Essentially, he pits an evil force against a disparate group of highly flawed individuals.  That group usually includes a child with extraordinary powers.  King uses the formula to create nail-biting tension, explore unspeakable horror, and reflect on the flaws of human nature.  Eventually there is a thunderous climax with good triumphing over evil but not without tragic losses on the side of good.  Desperation follows the formula and supplies all the elements of which people have become familiar.<br />In this incarnation, the individuals are drawn to the town of Desparation in the American West.  The town is under the thumb of a psychotic policeman.  It turns out that the cop is possessed by a demon.  However, the demon has miscalculated in that the disparate group he has captured includes a boy who talks to God and to whom God talks.  The group must learn to follow God's direction via the boy.  Ultimately Desparation's theme is submitting to the will of God even though God appears be cruel.  Although written in a modern style with graphic violence and coarse language Desparation portrays a conventional image of the Judeo-Christian God and explores man's relationship to that God in a traditional manner.<br />A reader might not take a novel seriously because it follows a formula.  It's worth noting that Beethoven followed a formula and explored musical ideas within the formula.  So does King.<br />I listened to the audiotape version of Desparation in the car and the suspense was such that I almost got into a couple of accidents.  I am also glad I didn't drive down any dark lonely roads while I was listening to it.  Enjoy the suspense and action and think about what King is saying.	2000-10-24
US	50734117	R2DXON6LQJCRNL	1568490526	353156139	Lord Hornblower	Books	4	6	8	N	N	4 guerilla campaigns with HH on land	C.S. Forester had tremendous success writing 3 Hornblower novellas before World War II followed by Commodore Hornblower after the war.  Lord Hornblower sees our hero through the completion of the Napoleonic Wars.  While Forester would continue to write Hornblower novels, filling in details from Hornblower's earlier life, the later ones chronologically have the most suspense as the reader really doesn't know how successful HH will be.  Still, while very good, Lord Hornblower is not his best in the series.<br />When created, Hornblower may have been unique as an action hero.  Here was a man who, although he was brave, intelligent and daring, was plagued by self-doubt and guilt.  Before deconstruction became literary vogue, Forester deconstructed the action hero.  Forester's genius and inspiring message was in portraying Hornblower with such human weaknesses, yet having him rise to overcome them.  In the best of the series Forester successfully balanced Hornblower's self-criticism and analysis with breath-taking naval action.  Unfortunately, little of Lord Hornblower takes place at sea.<br />Lord Hornblower starts in fine HH tradition with the recently recovered Hornblower sent to France with a hopeless mission.  He must persuade mutineers to turn themselves over so that they can be hanged.  Can Hornblower get out of the quandary and brilliantly take advantage of opportunities?  Of course he can.  However, the book continues as Napoleon is forced to abdicate.  The rest of the novel takes place on land.  There is more action at the end when Napoleon returns in 1815 for the Hundred Days however the exploits don't compare to those of the past and the naval exploits are non-existent.  <br />Lord Hornblower is perhaps the must introspective of the series and not a bad novel by any means.  Less than optimum Forester is still better than most material available today.  It just doesn't match up to the Captain Hornblower trilogy and Commodore Hornblower.    There are no bad entries in the series but this one is the weakest.  With the exception of Hornblower and the Atropos, it's also the most tragic.  It's still worth the read.	2000-10-24
US	50734117	R1ZOX1QG7NLJ18	0312867123	272088925	Flashforward	Books	4	12	18	N	N	Four solid leaps into the future	I have always been partial to Robert Sawyer, as he is Canada's greatest borne and bred and still resident science fiction writer.  Perhaps I tend to give him the benefit of the doubt especially when he rejects the staple of most Canadian writers; the government grant.  That being said, I liked Flashforward.  It is a good, solid, well researched, and well written novel.  It's perhaps not his best but it's good.<br />Flashforward is set at CERN in 2009.  Its primary protagonist is a Canadian scientist working at CERN trying to detect the illusive Higgs boson.  The new ultra-high energy experiment causes everyone to see through their own eyes what they will be doing some 20 years in the future for two minutes.  When the experience is over there have been accidents and deaths as a result.  Some people see futures they don't like.  Others see nothing indicating that they won't be alive in 20 years.  Flashforward is an exploration of the problems caused and philosophical points raised.<br />Do we have free will?  Is the future predetermined?  Why do some relationships succeed and others fail?  These are but some of the questions that Sawyer raises.  Typical Sawyer themes are present including his interest in longevity/immortality.  I am impressed that Sawyer can approach so many of his recurring themes from a fresh angle every time.<br />Sawyer's novels all appear well researched with the science not front and centre but well supported.  If one is a techie then there is technical content.  If one isn't then the technical content doesn't get in the way of the story.<br />Flashforward is a good novel but not without some weaknesses, principally in the ideas that it presents.  For instance, Sawyer implies that the world of 2030 will have greater sexual freedom than today/2009.  How much greater freedom could there be?  On the one hand Sawyer implies that greater sexual freedom would be a good thing.  On the other his protagonist regrets that someone had his divorced fiancéebefore he did.  Sawyer also skips over the effects of marital breakdown and absentee parents on the development of children.  Perhaps Sawyer will tackle these issues in his next novel.<br />While I like to wave the Canadian flag as often as possible, I think that Sawyer has overdone it.  Some of the Canadian references make great in-jokes for Canadian readers and don't detract from the story.  However, Sawyer gives some Canadian institutions, particularly the CBC, far more prominence than they receive internationally.<br />Flashforward is worth reading.  One of the subplots has a thrilling climax.  It will make the reader think.  The ending is a little untidy but so is life.	2000-10-10
US	50734117	RQKEK6AAC77IT	1564311988	61255108	Sentinels	Books	3	4	6	N	N	A Good Detective Novel- Somewhat Mean Spirited	The Sentinels was my first exposure to Pronzini's \\"Nameless detective\\" novels.  \\"Nameless\\" narrates the story without revealing his name.  His namelessness is neither here nor there unlike Clint Eastwood's \\"Man with No Name\\" movies and neither adds nor subtracts from the telling of the story which, in itself, is a fair detective novel.<br />In The Sentinels, the narrator travels to Northern California to investigate the disappearance of a college girl.  While in the small town where she was last seen, he runs afoul of the locals and a group known as The Sentinels that may or may not have caused the girl's disappearance.  Who was the girl travelling with?  Why would anyone want to harm her?  These questions make for an excellent mystery and needless to say the detective eventually gets the answers at considerable personal risk to himself.  All in all it's a good detective story if somewhat familiar.<br />I did have a few problems with the novel.  It seems to me that it's a cliched cheap shot to present all rural people as xenophobic bigots.  Similarly presenting fundamentalist Christians as hypocrites is unfair and mean spirited.  The novel also deconstructs its own theme that people should be tolerant of those who are different and have different values.  Pronzini clearly doesn't show the same tolerance for small town rural people and fundamentalist Christians by presenting them in such a bad light.<br />I listened to the unabridged taped version which was read with appropriate style and inflection by John Michalski.	2000-10-05
US	50734117	R374UWTKZB2W3N	0375405658	190088526	The Greatest Generation (Tom Brokaw)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	4 terrific tributes from veteran newscaster	The Greatest Generation is Tom Brokaw's tribute to the generation of Americans who lived through the Depression, fought in World War II and  built the United States in the post-war era.  It is a moving tribute to a  generation that was collectively marvelous.<br />Brokaw begins The Greatest  Generation by drawing upon his coverage of the 40th and 50th anniversaries  of the D-Day landings.  The stories of the remarkable people who  participated in that historic event and war follow from his involvement at  the anniversary.  Essentially, the Depression hardened that generation, the  war and military service gave them discipline and the GI Bill gave them  opportunities to education that they would never have had otherwise.  With  a combination of work ethic, discipline and education that generation  achieved mightily and in Brokaw's view is indeed The Greatest  Generation.<br />The Greatest Generation starts out very strongly as Brokaw  explains how he became motivated to write the book and why he considers  that generation to be magnificent.  The stories of ordinary people who were  forged by war are truly inspiring.  About half way through there is a shift  from people whose names are not common to those whose names are very  familiar.  Brokaw talks about people like George Bush, Bob Dole and war  hero Joe Foss.  While their stories are inspiring, I preferred the stories  of the small town doctor, the black machinist and housewife with a baby who  lost her husband in Holland; everyday people.  Perhaps that's Brokaw's  weakness.  As a newsman he has been dealing with the rich and famous for  too long and is no longer comfortable with plain folks.  Whatever the  reason, I found the first half of his story better than the  second.<br />Brokaw's tribute is specifically aimed at Americans.  However,  all the values that he extols are not uniquely American.  In fact, two of  the people he profiles were or are married to Canadians, one of who served  with the famed 82nd Airborne.  Furthermore, many of the people who  immigrated to the US after WWII contributed to the post-war development  bringing the same value system that Brokaw highlights.  Perhaps The  Greatest Generation is an even greater generation than Brokaw realizes.<br />I  listened to the audio version that features Brokaw reading himself.  His  distinctive mid-western accent and minor speech impediment do add to the  poignant stories of people leaving small town USA to fight in WWII.  Brokaw  brings to the story a passion that is evident when he reads it  himself.<br />All in all The Greatest Generation is an enjoyable and light  analysis of a large group of people.  It would have been even better if he  had stuck to the regular folks and not gone for the celebrities half way  through.	2000-08-17
US	50734117	R2XLXQM09LFPQT	0380976404	700939540	Return to Mars	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Sequel to Mars loses contact with reader	Mars was an entertaining story and Bova did a good job of describing the technology needed for a first expedition to Mars.  In Return to Mars Bova  provides a sequel featuring the hero of the first novel, Jamie Waterman, in  charge of the second expedition.  The story is familiar and there aren't  any significant developments in the technology to justify a second novel.  Return to Mars is entertaining if familiar.<br />Like Mars crew tensions are a  greater danger than an alien planet.  Waterman faces his leadership being  undermined and there may be a saboteur in the ranks.  With 5 men and 3  women there is also some sexual tension.  This is extremely familiar ground  and Bova doesn't bring anything new to it to justify a novel.<br />Bova does  write a good, workmanlike if formulaic novel.  He is at his best describing  Martian sandstorms and trips across the Martian surface.  The Olympus Mons  trip is memorable, as are the images of people dangling over huge Martian  cliffs.  Mars concluded with the possibility that Martian ruins might  exist.  The possibility is further explored in Return to Mars.  Bova does a  good job establishing a mystery.  Who is losing it and whom will they kill  or injure along the way?  It's Agatha Christie's \\"Ten Little Indians\\" on  Mars.<br />Bova generally does a good job with the technology although I had  some problems.  For instance, the plastic greenhouse that's described  doesn't meet the level of technology that's currently available let alone  what we might have 40 years hence.  An important plot element involves the  single sheet of plastic that's used to cover the greenhouse.  Current  greenhouses use a double layer of plastic with the space between the two  layers pressurized providing much greater insulation value.<br />Also, there  are loose ends.  For instance, the group's repairman has trouble repairing  a piece of equipment and the reader expects a revelation but it never  comes.  The reader is left to wonder what he eventually found wrong.<br />The  novel is also politically correct.  It has some dubious science like the  alpha male concept which is a great idea for wolves.  Ultimately it's quite  predictable although there are a couple of nice twists.  It's entertaining  enough and a much easier read than Red Mars but it is an unnecessary  sequel.	2000-08-14
US	50734117	R2NFRS42HM60YA	1568490267	111780194	To Glory We Steer	Books	4	5	5	N	N	4 blistering broadsides beckon Bolitho beginner	Alexander Kent was second after Dudley Pope to launch a naval series that followed in the wake of C.S. Forester's Horatio Hornblower.  Like Forester,  Kent set the first novel when his hero had achieved captaincy and then  filled in on both sides.  From the beginning Kent established his Richard  Bolitho as a stalwart hero in the mould of Hornblower or Pope's Ramage.   Kent's novels would be defined by brutal realistic naval battles, action  and the spirit of high adventure.<br />To Glory We Steer is set in the waning  months of the American Revolution.  Yorktown has been lost and the French  under Admiral DeGrasse are looking to extend the victory and drive the  British out of the Caribbean.  Bolitho is sent to the Caribbean in command  of a ship in which a mutiny was put down.  The officers and men are all  questionable.  Can Richard Bolitho assume command, obtain the loyalty of  his men and administer a caning to the French?  Of course he can but the  fun is in watching him do it.<br />The Bolitho novels are cast in the  post-romantic mode.  Kent excels at action as his titles imply.  However,  the author knows what real war is like and doesn't flinch in describing the  effects of cutlasses and grapeshot on human flesh.  Given that the novel  was first published during the height of the Vietnam War, it's hard to  imagine that Kent could have written To Glory We Steer any other  way.<br />Kent keeps sex out of To Glory We Steer following MacLean's dictum  that it interfers with the action.  In fact, there are no women at all in  the book.  One sailor's wife has significance to the plot but she doesn't  enter the action. To Glory We Steer is a manly book about manly men doing  manly things.<br />To Glory We Steer is not as polished as the novels that  followed and in my view suffers from one climax too many.  The Battle of  the Saintes should be the climax of the novel and it loses some of its  punch because of earlier action.  Also, there are some opportunities missed  because Kent wrote the series out of chronological order.  For instance, he  meets another officer named Dancer.  Having read Richard Bolitho-Midshipman  and Richard Bolitho and the `Avenger', my first thought was that Bolitho  would say, \\"I served with a Martyn Dancer...\\" or something to that effect.   However, there is no mention of the earlier Dancer.  These are minor  foibles.<br />It's a little rough around the edges but it's still a great  start to great series.   Kent novels make an excellent guilty pleasure.	2000-08-03
US	50734117	R1JKDEUKSWG6Q4	0786113308	428889418	The Puppet Masters	Books	5	2	2	N	N	5 squashed slugs for classic Heinlein	Alien possession of human bodies is one of the oldest stories in science fiction.  It had been done before The Puppet Masters and it certainly has been done since.  However, nobody has done it any better than Heinlein. The  Puppet Masters is classic science fiction from one of the genre's great  masters.<br />The Puppet Masters is told in the first person and the narrator  lets the reader know early that a war has been won but at great cost.  The  reader does not learn until the novel is over what those costs were and  herein lies the suspense.  It is only as the novel proceeds and reaches its  climax that the reader learns the full power of the enemy and the  devastation that they have caused.  Imagine a World War II novel in which  90% of it is set in the first 6 months of 1942, defeat and frustration are  at every turn.  The heroes of The Puppet Masters go through the stages of  their own disbelief, growing awareness, trying to convince others what is  happening, and finally getting a response.  Every effort to check the  invasion is frustrated and the end is in sight before a solution is found.   The tension builds steadily to a thrilling climax.<br />The world in which The  Puppet Masters is set is not our earth.  The reader has to imagine a world  that had a small-scale nuclear war, had space travel earlier than we did,  and in which communism still survives.  It is a solar system in which Venus  is not a hellhole and on which man could live.  All of these were possible  when Heinlein wrote The Puppet Masters some 50 years ago.  Diversion from  our history is a common problem with reading older science fiction but if  one can make the adjustment, the novel works very well.<br />The Puppet  Masters has some of Heinlein's ongoing themes; his distrust of government  and politicians, his strong belief in the military, and even a hint of a  positive view of free love.   Stronger yet is the theme of succession i.e.  a son meeting his father's demands and continuingthe next generation.   However, the overpowering theme is the right of individuals to make their  own choices be they good or bad.<br />Heinlein uses metaphor and foreshadowing  in the novel.  I wondered if the masters were a metaphor for communism or  the bomb and Heinlein rather clumsily confirmed my hypothesis.  The war  against the masters might also be a metaphor for WWII or the cold war.   Alternately, it could be any war in which people have to fight for freedom  against an oppressor. The Puppet Masters may be morally simplistic in this  regard but it definitely has an uplifting message.  It is also a cautionary  tale.  Once Pandora's Box is opened, it cannot be closed.<br />I did have a  couple of bones to pick with Heinlein as the novel is set almost  exclusively on the American East Coast and mid-west.  His knowledge of  geography beyond that appears poor.  For example, he refers to the  \\"tractless Canadian forests\\".  The area of Canada referred to is the  prairies where trees are few and far between.  Was Heinlein using artistic  license or cliche?  This and other minor examples of chauvinism don't  detract significantly from the novel. <br />Some of Heinlein's later novels  got silly. The Puppet Masters requires some suspension of disbelief but it  is one of his best.  It is a true classic.<br />The following comments refer  to the audio version only.  The tape was one of the best organized of any  tapes I have heard.  At the start of each side the reader announced what  the story was, what tape it was and what side of the tape it was.  He also  repeated the last line from the previous side.  The reader had an out of  breath style and occasionally I could hear the pages turning.  The reader  did sound like he was the right age for the narrator and his style suited  the novel.	2000-07-19
US	50734117	RP2NWY52CL493	0679452729	922959758	The Third Twin	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Two stories too many?	Cassette Version<br />I enjoyed Night over Water and the Key to Rebecca and was really disappointed by this.  Perhaps Follett should stick to WWII.  I listened to the audio version and when I had to switch it to side two I  wondered why I was wasting my time and stopped.<br />Two things really  irritated me.  The first was the stereotypical insensitive doctor  collecting rape evidence.  The second was the reader's abrasive accent.<br />I  found I wasn't enjoying it and popped another cassette in the tape player.   The 2 stars are giving it the benefit of the doubt as I only listened to  one side of one tape. Otherwise it would have received 1.	2000-06-30
US	50734117	R1IJ2W6TZTMGYD	0899669743	382406009	Sloop of War (Richard Bolitho Novels)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	5 Privateers Interdicted for young Bolitho	Wow!  Sloop of War was written at a time when Alexander Kent could deliver top notch naval action.  The novel contains more broadsides, swordplay and general action per page than any of his contemporaries could deliver.  I  read Sloop of War after completing O'Brian's HMS Surprise.  Since the two  novels were published within a year or so of each other and are set in  roughly the same period, one would expect some similarities.  There are few  similarities.  While O'Brian's forte is his use of language, themes and  detail, Kent's strength is action, pure and simple.<br />Sloop of War is set  during the American Revolution and follows a format that Kent used as  Reeman in HMS Saracen i.e. there are two separate and almost stand-alone  parts to the novel.  In Sloop of War the separation in time between the two  halves is much briefer.  The novel features the young Richard Bolitho with  his first command as the captain of a sloop fighting the corruption of the  Royal Navy and the English powers that be as much as the dastardly American  revolutionaries and their French allies.  Only on the open seas are things  simple or are they?  Treachery on land or at sea is to be expected.<br />I  suspect that Kent probably knew that he might alienate American readers by  having his hero fighting against the American Revolution.  However, he  deftly avoids having major conflicts between American forces and his own.   Furthermore, he has an American first officer accentuating the sense of  internal conflict caused by the revolution.  The causes for the war are not  discussed and one senses that Bolitho has some sympathy for the colonists  although he is bound by duty to fight against them.  Wisely Kent does not  have Bolitho slaughtering large numbers of American sailors in sea  battles.<br />Kent writes well of the sea and its changeable weather.  He is  very strong on the action.  There are also some serious themes.  For  instance, the men in Bolitho's ship may be fighting for King and country  but ultimately they are fighting for each other.  Bonds formed in war are  much stronger than bonds based on idealism.  The men one fights with can be  relied on more than the women one is attracted to.<br />I did have one bone to  pick with Kent's historical accuracy involving Canadian scouts.  Kent  describes the Canadians in the way that I think of voyageurs or courier de  bois.  In fact, Canadians in 1778 would have been French.  The few English  speaking Canadians of that day would not have been the woodsmen that Kent  describes.  However, it's a minor nit-pick in a thoroughly entertaining  story.<br />Reeman/Kent was at his peak in writing stirring yet grim and  realistic action novels when Sloop of War was published.  It is not great  literature by any means but it's a damn entertaining read.	2000-06-26
US	50734117	R2RKD1XO3PS392	0393307611	952337324	H. M. S. Surprise (Aubrey / Maturin)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	5 southern gales as the Aubrey/Maturin voyage continues	The third entry in the Aubrey/Maturin saga picks up where the action left off in Post Captain.  The friendship between Aubrey and Maturin that was seriously strained in Post Captain continues to flourish.  Existing  characters are further developed and new characters introduced and  developed.  The reader follows the philosophical thoughts of Maturin and  the simpler thoughts of Aubrey.  In the meantime there is sufficient naval  action to carry the philosophizing and character development.<br />HMS  Surprise is serious and philosophical while being earthy and funny.   Referring to an intoxicated animal, Maturin delivers the most hilarious  line that I remember reading in a novel, \\"Jack, you have debauched my  sloth.\\" At the same time Maturin's ponderings are on a higher level.  So  the novel oscillates between the down to earth and the ethereal.  O'Brian  never goes over the top one way or the other.  For instance, Maturin is  tortured early in the novel.  The reader is spared the details.  While not  describing the torture, O'Brian has accentuated its horror by using  peoples' reactions to his injured body. O'Brian also makes points very  subtly and one can miss things because of the way that they are revealed  matter of factly.<br />There is a lot of depth (no pun intended) to the novel.   One theme that resonated was the faith that the two men have in each  other's specialties.  Aubrey believes that Maturin can cure anything while  Maturin is only too aware of the limits of early 19th century medicine.   Conversely, Maturin believes that Aubrey can work miracles with the ships  at his command.  O'Brian's presentation was as relevant for the day it was  written as it was for 1800 and is still today.  On one hand we have an  unrealistic faith in modern medicine.  On the other we are presented with  an unrealistic belief in modern technology.  While medicine and technology  appear to be miraculous and without limits in their capabilities, the  practitioners in those disciplines know their limitations all too well.   Similarly, there are many themes that O'Brian explores deftly using a long  voyage as the backdrop.<br />The sailing story is superb although it has fewer  broadsides per page that most of its counterparts in the genre.  My  favourite description is of a storm while rounding the Cape of Good Hope  during the voyage to India.  Throughout the novel tension builds from the  spectre of Admiral Linois, who captured Aubrey in Master and Commander, in  the Indian Ocean.  Will Linois prevail a second time in their inevitable  encounter or will Aubrey use all of his formidable skills to defeat the  Frenchman?<br />HMS Surprise seems typical of the Aubrey/Maturin series in  that it requires some commitment to read through.  It is not a quick,  instant gratification read but it is a very satisfying one.  The novel is  well worth the effort that a reader of serious historical fiction must put  into it.	2000-06-23
US	50734117	RS01O192Z91GA	0745143342	688716919	Not a Penny More, Not a Penny Less	Books	4	0	0	N	N	4 Defrauded men get their money back	When 4 Englishmen are defrauded by a shady American operator,they resolve to get their money back \\"Not a Penny More, Not a Pennt Less\\" in this comical story. Archer is an excellent story teller, builds suspense  and provides many twists and turns.  He provides some unlikely scenarios  for swindling a swindler all of which are both tension filled and  hilarious.My only complaint is that the bad guy starts off as very vile  and evil and ends up to be almost a sympathetic character by the end.  Still it's good, light, harmless entertainment and we can all do with a  little of that once in a while.	2000-06-16
US	50734117	R2HB77YPZVO86Y	0345377370	682630645	Spy Who Came in from the Cold	Books	5	7	8	N	N	5 blown agents for Cold War Classic	If one is to read only one spy story and certainly only one Cold War novel, that story is The Spy Who Came in From the Cold.  LeCarre established himself with this one novel as not only a popular writer but  also one of the best novelists of the second half of the 20th century.<br />In  LeCarre's spy world, secret weapons and glamorous action are not present.  The Spy Who Came in From the Cold is full of twists, turns and betrayal.   It presents seamy people living seamy lives without ideals, just playing a  deadly game to win at all costs.  Spying is like a giant chess game in  which the players can very quickly become the pieces and become discarded  when they have lost their value.<br />The novel features Alec Leamus, a middle  aged spy who wants to come in from the cold.  That is to say he wants to  stop spying.  He is persuaded to accept one more mission to discredit the  East German who has been catching all his agents..  He must pretend to sink  into alcoholism and eventually defect.  What follows are the twists, turns  and betrayal that are stock LeCarre.<br />The presence of George Smiley is  felt throughout much of the novel.  The protagonist of Call for the Dead  and A Murder of Quality is present in very few scenes although his spectre  follows the action.  However, he is a Kafkaesque figure.  What is Smiley  doing?  Why is it important?  All is ultimately revealed or is it?  In  subsequent Smiley novels, the reader gets to see Smiley the player.  In The  Spy Who Came in From the Cold we get to see Smiley from the viewpoint of  one of the pieces.<br />The Spy Who Came in From the Cold works on one level  as a straight spy story, perhaps the best ever written and there is more  depth.  The \\"cold\\" referred to is not only a metaphor for the discomfort  one feels when one is isolated from home and security it is also a metaphor  for the Cold War.  Leamus is involved in a nasty, dirty business from which  he cannot easily withdraw.  Essentially he representsthe west, not wanting  to engage in the business, not sure why it is involved and who benefits but  unable to withdraw.   <br />Ultimately, The Spy Who Came in From the Cold  answers all the questions but in doing so creates far more unanswered  questions.  It is a thought-provoking masterpiece and one of the great  novels of the 20th century.	2000-06-12
US	50734117	R23SQFNDQGVCGV	031287216X	507991744	Venus	Books	4	8	9	N	N	4 Bova Blast Furnaces	Ben Bova is one of science fiction's best known authors and editors.  He is not a great writer but he can deliver entertaining stories.  Venus is a light read and an entertaining story but not one that will stand the test  of time.<br />Venus features a character named Van Humphries who accepts his  father's challenge to travel to Venus and recover his brother's dead body.   At stake are $10 billion and his father's respect.  Humphries must face a  number of challenges along the way including the hostile Venusian  conditions, a competing expedition and his own weaknesses.  If this sounds  familiar, it is.  However, the possibilities involved in landing an  expedition on Venus which is the hellhole of the solar system are too  tempting to ignore. Venus is a very readable book and the familiarity and  predictability of the plot only add to its charm.<br />I was particularly  entertained by his descriptions of the Venusian climate, the wind  conditions, the intense heat and the great pressure.  Just when I was  getting annoyed at the lack of explanation of the ship's modus operandi,  Bova began to explain heat exchangers.  Still there wasn't very much depth  in the explanation.  I expect that thermodynamics is not Bova's  specialty.<br />All in all, Venus is nice light read although I would save it  for a cold winter night when the description of the heat might be really  appreciated.	2000-06-08
US	50734117	R1PKBEKCJK7PKJ	0316289388	353156139	Commodore Hornblower (Hornblower Saga)	Books	5	21	23	N	N	5 Baltic Battles for Hornblower	Commodore Hornblower was Forester's first attempt to replicate the pre-war success of his Horatio Hornblower trilogy; Beat to Quarters, Ship of the Line and Flying Colours.  After emerging victorious from the greatest war  in human history, would his readership still be interested in a more  distant conflict?  The answer was \\"Yes\\", but Forester made sure by  including strong parallels between the Napoleonic Wars and World War II.  The result, as a historical novel, was as relevant to the readers of the  day as if it had been written about WWII. Commodore Hornblower works as a  historical novel of the Napoleonic era and as a reminder of the immense  struggles and sacrifices of WWII.<br /> Commodore Hornblower begins with  Hornblower leaving his new wife and son to return to sea.  How poignant  this passage must have been for the first post-war readers.  Hornblower,  now in charge of a small squadron, must take his ships into the Baltic past  hostile Danes and Swedes who maintain a sinister neutrality.  What follows  is a series of naval and land engagements that are typical of this type of  novel.  However nobody surpassed Forester in telling exciting yet realistic  action stories.  The battle scenes are both exciting and exhilarating yet  horrifying at the same time.<br />During his stint in the Baltic, Hornblower  rubs shoulders with the Tsar of Russia, Marshal Bernadotte of Sweden and  the warrior/philosopher Clausewitz. Hornblower must try and win over those  hanging onto to neutrality by a thread and those siding with the tyrant  Napoleon.  As always he acquits himself well although he is his own worst  critic.<br />While Commodore Hornblower works as both an action novel and a  historical novel, I think that it might have lost some of the impact that  it had when it was first published.  The parallels for the British people  in 1940 and 1812 are very strong.  There is a tyrant dominating Europe who  is both willing and able to throw away far more lives than theBritish  could manage or accept.  There is Russia siding with the tyrant, invading  Finland and ultimately resisting the tyrant's invasion from the west.  There is Europe ready for an uprising to overthrow the tyrant.  And, of  course, there is Britain standing alone against the might of the entire  continent until forces can be rallied to defeat the tyrant. Commodore  Hornblower is a story of heroism in the Napoleonic era but it was published  at the right time to remind the British people of the heroism that they had  so recently shown.  It's a marvelous sequel and worthy successor to  Forester's pre-war efforts.	2000-06-08
US	50734117	R1KO3SECMY5864	0393307069	659543252	Post Captain (Aubrey/Maturin)	Books	5	33	37	N	N	5 Indebted Captains as Aubrey reaches stride	Post Captain is the second in the Aubrey/Maturin series and perhaps the first written with the knowledge that it was part of a series.  O'Brian's first novel in the series was published shortly after C.S. Forester's death  and the publication of Pope's and Kent's first novels in their series of  wooden ships and iron men.  O'Brian found a different niche within the  genre and one that ultimately led to his recognition as a serious author of  historical novels.  If one has read Pope or Kent and even Forester, then  the reader might have some difficulty getting into O'Brian's novels.  If  one accepts that O'Brian is a longer read and that the emphasis is more on  character and historicity than violent action then one can enjoy this novel  thoroughly.<br />I read the first book in the series, Master and Commander,  and was disappointed.  I enjoyed Post Captain more.  Perhaps that was due  to knowing what to expect and perhaps it is because Post Captain is better  than its predecessor.  However, it is not your typical naval action  adventure.  In fact, the first few chapters sounded a bit like Pride and  Prejudice from Mr. Darcy's perspective.  The fact is that O'Brian writes  well enough to pull it off.  Post Captain does pick up when war is declared  and Aubrey goes back to sea. <br />One area of conflict that I found strangely  missing in Master and Commander was that between Aubrey and Maturin.  I had  expected that Maturin would be critical of Aubrey taking the ship into  actions that caused wounds Maturin would have to treat.  There is a serious  conflict between the two in Post Captain although it's not over Aubrey's  naval actions.  Since the series has 18 more novels one knows that the  conflict will be resolved.<br />The main problem that Aubrey faces in the  novel is not the French navy but his own indebtedness and the inability to  obtain a suitable command.  Paradoxically, Aubrey is safe from creditors  while at sea.  The problems that a person faced whilein debt in 1800 are  explained well and the reader has great empathy with Aubrey.<br />The naval  activities in Post Captain seem similar to those in Hornblower and the  Hotspur to the point that the climactic action appears to correspond to the  same point in history.  While O'Brian did not appear to value the  Hornblower novels greatly it is obvious that he owes Forester a debt of  gratitude for creating the genre.  Without Forester it is doubtful that  O'Brian would have been able to develop his own unique niche and this  excellent novel would not have been published.	2000-05-26
US	50734117	RZYB9R3CA6Z8K	088646160X	784365589	Murder of Quality	Books	5	21	23	N	N	5 Subtle Clues for early Smiley	A Murder of Quality is the second of LeCarre's novels that feature George Smiley.  Unlike the others in the series this novel is not about the Cold War and espionage, at least not overtly.  In this one; a woman with whom  Smiley worked during the war contacts him.  She publishes a small Christian  paper and has a subscriber who fears that she will be murdered.  Smiley  investigates and eventually finds the murderer.  It is a classic murder  story but not a spy story or is it?  I did find myself wondering why the  paper was kept in business by the owners.  Is it owned by British  intelligence?  There might be more to this murder mystery than meets the  eye or perhaps not.<br />Smiley has to solve a murder and also face his wife's  past.  It's ironic that the basically decent and brilliant Smiley is  considered unsuitable for his higher class but serially unfaithful wife.   LeCarre includes much social comment about Britain as he leads Smiley to  the solution of the crime.<br />Things are not what they seem and Smiley's  investigations lead to truly nasty revelations.  The twists, turns and  betrayal that are LeCarre constants are present in A Murder of Quality.   The reader gets to see the author as he is developing his craft.<br />A Murder  of Quality is a murder mystery and perhaps LeCarre was considering pursuing  this genre.  Instead he reinvented the spy story incorporating seaminess  and betrayal. A Murder of Quality shows us how deep his talents as a writer  are.	2000-05-26
US	50734117	RFKOIPBESGEQW	0316288934	236338073	Captain Horatio Hornblower	Books	5	33	33	N	N	The novel that started a genre	Captain Horatio Hornblower is a collection of three short novels originally published in 1937 and 1938 as \\"Beat To Quarters\\", \\"Ship of the Line\\" and \\"Flying Colours\\". All are set during the Napoleonic wars roughly between 1807 and 1811. The great success of these stories led Forester to write a number of Hornblower prequels and sequels, all of which are still read widely. It also spawned a long list of successors, some of which are excellent although none fully measure up to Forester in my opinion.<br />Beat To Quarters introduces Hornblower taking HMS Lydia into the Pacific Ocean to insight a rebellion against the Spanish. The story takes a number of twists including Hornblower finding his ally is a madman, a change in the political situation and the introduction of Lady Barbara Wellesley, the fictional sister of the Duke of Wellington. <br />Ship of the Line finds Hornblower commanding HMS Sutherland for a cruise in the Mediterranean. Hornblower not only must face the French but he must deal with a superior officer who would like to see him fail. <br />Flying Colours begins where Ship of the Line ends. Hornblower is a prisoner in France and must find a way to escape. <br />I thought that I knew these stories fairly well having seen the 1951 film Captain Horatio Hornblower staring Gregory Peck. However the novel is quite different in several areas. Perhaps what surprised me the most was the level of violence, sex and swearing that was included in the novel. I hadn't expected the violence to be as graphic, the sex to be as obvious or the swearing to be present at all. The novel has a gritty realism that was not matched in the genre until the 70s.<br />Captain Horatio Hornblower was written when Forester was in his thirties and before he had thoroughly polished his craft. While it might have a few rough edges it is a tremendously powerful, action-filled novel. The shy, self-doubting, self-deprecating but outwardly implacable Hornblower is one of the great charactersof adventure stories. If one were restricted to reading only one novel of \\"wooden ships and iron men\\" then that novel should be Captain Horatio Hornblower.	2000-05-10
US	50734117	R1M4R3980QIEIA	0316289299	882666727	Hornblower and the Atropos (Hornblower Saga (Paperback))	Books	4	7	9	N	N	4 recovered treasures for Hornblower	In previous Hornblower novels as well as other fictional stories, C.S. Forester never failed to deliver an enjoyable story.  Hornblower and the Atropos is an enjoyable story although perhaps not one of the strongest of  the series.  It is more a collection of short stories than a novel and  perhaps can be enjoyed best in that light.<br />Hornblower and the Atropos  begins with Hornblower, his pregnant wife and child travelling along the  canals of England to Hornblower's new posting.  The trip is interesting in  its description of the canal system and for its exploration of Hornblower's  character and his relationship with his wife.  Otherwise it has little  relation to the subsequent action in the novel.<br />When Hornblower returns  to duty his first task is to plan and choreograph Nelson's funeral, which  he does with his usual combination of dedication, competence and  self-doubt.  I think that the only reason to put this scene in the novel is  to show that Hornblower's star is rising.  I also wonder if it was written  at the time of George VI's death and might have been poignant to the  British readers of the day.<br />HH's next task takes him to Turkey to recover  a sunken treasure without causing a diplomatic incident.  On his return he  must interrupt an attack on a convoy along the way playing cat and mouse  with enemy shipping.<br />The final scene on his return is a powerful  counterpoint to the opening scene.  However, the whole is not greater than  the sum of individual actions. Hornblower and the Atropos is an enjoyable  collection of short stories told with CSF's great gift for storytelling.   As a novel it is weaker than its chronological predecessors but still well  worth the time spent reading it.	2000-05-10
US	50734117	R1YS5TAV4HSN9U	0899669727	632911262	Stand into Danger (Richard Bolitho)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	4 pirates thwarted in Caribbean heat	Of the C.S. Forester followers, Alexander Kent has most closely followed the schedule that Forester set.  Like Forester, Kent started the series in the middle and then wrote novels at the beginning and end to complete the series.    Other series writers including Pope, O'Brian, Parkinson, and  Woodman wrote their series in chronological order for the most part.  Stand  Into Danger is chronologically the second (or third) novel in his series  but was published over a decade after the first Richard Bolitho novel hit  the bookstands.  Bolitho readers had the character down but Kent took them  back to see their hero develop and develop he does in Stand Into  Danger.<br />In Stand Into Danger Bolitho learns about leadership from his  captain and first lieutenant.  He enlists a stalwart companion in  Stockdale, acquires a nasty scar and experiences love for the first time.   He also has a series of thrilling adventures and breathtaking naval battles  involving pirates.   Stand Into Danger is a solid entry in the  series.<br />Like other novels in these series, Stand Into Danger is written  as an adult action adventure.  It has a real feel to it.  The Caribbean of  1774 was not the romantic vacation holiday setting of today.   It was a  place of illness, sweltering heat, violent storms and brutal pirates.  None  of it is romanticized although Bolitho is a good old-fashioned hero who  manages to overcome against all odds.  Men die and die horribly in naval  battles.  Kent does not gloss over this fact although he spares us the  worst of the details.<br />Kent does an excellent job of describing young  Richard Bolitho.  To some extent his descriptions of Bolitho sound like the  reminiscences of a middle-aged man.  On the other hand, Bolitho's discovery  of love as a young man rings true.  <br />I did find Kent's description of the  climactic battle a little confusing.  A map at the appropriate chapter  would help.  There was also some intrigue in the novel that required someattention to detail.  Also, a diagram of the ship would have been helpful.   Stand Into Danger is a respectable entry into the series and a step up from  Richard Bolitho and the `Avenger\\" but not as good as In Gallant Company,  the next entry in the series.	2000-03-07
US	50734117	R2JJJV9S635K9N	0935526439	347437696	In Gallant Company (Richard Bolitho Novels, No. 3) (The Bolitho Novels) (Volume 3)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	5 shattered yard arms for Bolitho�s 3rd (or 4th)	Of all the writers of historical naval fiction, Alexander Kent has by far the most inspiring titles.  His titles suggest action and adventure and his novels appear to deliver.  Unfortunately, readers might be inclined to take  this novel less seriously than it warrants because of the title.  That  would be a shame as In Gallant Company has serious themes to it.<br />In  Gallant Company is set in 1777 during the American Revolution and features  Richard Bolitho who starts as a lowly lieutenant on a ship with 6 of them.   The parallels to the British position in the 13 colonies and the American  position in Vietnam are extensive; long supply lines, no great sense of  purpose, atrocities on both sides, overwhelming firepower that is  essentially useless, large neutral countries supporting the enemy and the  inability to readily tell friend from foe.  Some of the rebels have English  accents and some of the royalists have American accents.   Bolitho is  participating in a truly nasty civil war.<br />The Revolution is the \\"bloody  war\\" that junior naval officers look for and advancement comes to the  talented Bolitho as much through attrition as through his heroism.  War, as  Kent describes it, is brutal and some horrible injuries are described  graphically.  While the title implies action, and Kent delivers it in  spades, In Gallant Company is very realistic in its details especially in  the effects of shot and shell on men.<br />In Gallant Company is an action  tour-de-force and is suitable for all ages old enough to read it.	2000-02-04
US	50734117	RU1M8PQST9YC	0316290467	764983778	Hornblower and the "Hotspur" (Hornblower Series)	Books	5	21	26	N	N	5 thwarted invasions by the Master of sea action	Although Hornblower and the Hotspur is the third installment chronologically in the Hornblower series, it was one of the last written.   Paradoxically, perhaps it might have the least harmony with modern readers.   Hornblower stands for values that many people have rejected or would at  least find quaint.  Hornblower and the Hotspur is a first rate naval action  story that worked on many levels when it was written.  Unfortunately, some  of these levels no longer strike a chord with modern readers.<br />Hornblower  and the Hotspur begins with Hornblower's wedding.  It is obvious from the  beginning that Hornblower did not want to get married.  The fearless  Hornblower is too soft hearted to break a woman's heart.  He realizes that  he could have taken advantage of her and left her broken hearted but has  married her and made her deliriously happy instead.  Unfortunately, most  modern readers would not find this chivalry believable.  Much has changed  since Forester first published this novel nearly 40 years ago.  Modern  heroes are expected to sleep with the women and then sail away ignoring  heartbreak and possible progeny.  Many modern readers would see Hornblower  as a sap.<br />For the majority of Hornblower and the Hotspur, Hornblower is  at sea.  It is 1803 and the brief peace is ending.  France and England are  set to engage in yet another war.  France is amassing a huge army to invade  England.  The parallels to World War II would have been obvious to the  readers of 1962.  England has a small army and would be unable to stay free  if the huge army from the continent were ever able to cross the English  Channel.<br />Another parallel is in the mention of the soldiers who were  drafted to serve a tyrant.  Hornblower regrets having to kill Frenchmen in  the way that modern Britons would have regretted the necessity of killing  Germans in WWII.<br />A subtext is Hornblower's coming to terms with his  family life.  Many of the original readers would have been WWII veterans  who perhaps married in haste and made the best of raising their \\"baby-boom\\"  families. <br />In spite of all this, Hornblower and the Hotspur is about sea  chases, broadsides, furious storms and night actions.  Forester tells a  marvelous sea tale that stands the test of time.  It's sad that some its  original values have been lost and that some of the parallels are no longer  relevant. Hornblower and the Hotspur is too good a story to fade with time.	2000-01-25
US	50734117	R3QC2K51P0VGC0	071954243X	788057561	1805	Books	5	14	14	N	N	5 rakings top and bottom for climactic Tragalgar action	1805 is the sixth entry in the Nathaniel Drinkwater series.  The first six books of the series were copyrighted within 4 years and the next six took ten years to come out.  Woodman wrote the first books rapidly.  The result  is a high level of intensity and some unevenness but the series is of very  high quality for the genre.  The series has tackled a number of serious  themes while incorporating dramatic naval action and 1805 is no  exception.<br />1805 starts in 1804 with Napoleon threatening to invade  England.  Drinkwater, now a captain, must patrol the English Channel to  ensure that the French cannot bring a huge army across and subdue the  stubborn English.  With the powerful Royal Navy besting the French at every  tack, was an invasion of England ever a real threat?  Woodman makes a  strong case that the answer is yes.  Woodman, through letters from  Drinkwater's wife, conveys the tension that was felt by English people at  the time.  Whether the threat was real or not, the reader is convinced that  it was.<br />The reader also gets a sense of the loneliness felt by sailors  with months or years of separation from their families.  Drinkwater becomes  a father figure to Midshipman Gillespy.  Woodman presents the irony of  Drinkwater being a father to a boy who is not his own while his own son is  fatherless at home.  The loss of fathers for indefinite periods of time or  permanently is one of war's great tragedies and Woodman portrays it with  some understatement.<br />Modern readers also know that 1805 culminated in the  Battle of Trafalgar, which was Britain's greatest naval victory and perhaps  the most decisive naval battle in history.  Drinkwater has a unique  perspective on the battle.  Woodman's description of the battle through  Drinkwater's eyes is a vision of hell, a vision that rings very true.  Even  though the reader sees the battle from the English perspective and the  battle is a victory, Woodman emphasizes the tragedy. <br />1805 is a littleuneven but Woodman more than makes up for this by his description of the  events leading up to the Battle of Trafalgar and the description of the  battle itself from Drinkwater's vantage point.  1805 is a powerful novel  that has probably not received the recognition that it should.  Without  Trafalgar this is just another naval novel but with Trafalgar it's a  masterstroke.  It's every man's duty to read this one!	2000-01-17
US	50734117	R2EC0Y80K5UELI	1850575738	760967171	Corvette (Thorndike Large Print Popular Series)	Books	5	23	23	N	N	5 ice crunching broadsides for Drinkwater 5	Woodman's Drinkwater series has followed a consistent formula.  At first, there is an introduction of the characters followed by a first action in which Drinkwater shows his fire as a military man.  Then the characters and situations develop until there is a climactic battle that requires  Drinkwater's unique skills for good to triumph over evil. The Corvette is  somewhat of a departure from the established formula and the result is  perhaps Woodman's finest entry since the first of the series.<br />The  Corvette finds Nathaniel Drinkwater recovered from wounds following a  failed attack on Boulogne, an action that has occurred after events in The  Bomb Vessel.  Drinkwater is given command as a job-captain, a temporary  position, to guard the Greenland whaling fleet.  He must overcome hostility  from the whalers and guard against French attempts to disrupt the vital  whaling operation.  The crew must be molded into a fighting force and  elements overcome.  All of these demands are suitable challenges for the  skills of Nathaniel Drinkwater.<br />Woodman has enriched The Corvette with a  fascinating cast of characters.  Tregembo and Mr. Q are back.  We are also  introduced to whalers some of whom are Quakers.  In addition, Drinkwater  provides passage for a Quaker missionary en route to Greenland. The  Corvette features a marvelous discussion of theology between the learned  Quaker and the more pragmatic fighting man Drinkwater.  Although the  discussion is set in the early 19th century, it is as relevant today as it  was then.  Also, the morality of killing such magnificent creatures as  whales is briefly questioned, I suspect more as a nod to modern readers  than to reflect historical accuracy.  One great bit of dramatic tension is  between the surgeon and Drinkwater.  The surgeon sees Drinkwater as being  responsible for the horrible slaughter.  Drinkwater, while regretting the  slaughter, sees it as unavoidable if homes and hearths are to be protected.   <br />The Corvette is first and foremost a sea story.  Woodman continues to  provide extensive details and even includes a sketch of a repair at sea.   Unfortunately, Woodman does assume that the reader has a detailed knowledge  of the hardware of sailing ships.  If this novel were reprinted, the  publisher would do well to include a glossary of terms and a sketch of the  vessel.  Like all books in the series, The Corvette has a map that shows  where the action takes place.  The details and problems of sailing in the  arctic in wooden vessels are described well.  On the other hand  descriptions of clothing were sparse.  In particular, I was curious to know  if the sailors remained barefoot in the high arctic.  <br />I suspect that The  Corvette was not the novel that Woodman set out to write.  The raid on  Boulogne and serious injuries after The Bomb Vessel all seem to be major  events in the series.  Perhaps the failed raid was intended as a precursor  to The Corvette or it was intended to stand on its own.  Whatever the  intent, it appears that excluding the Boulogne action from the series led  to The Corvette being different in structure than the earlier entries. The  Corvette is a very effective change of pace.<br />There is little violent  action at the start of The Corvette, perhaps due to the missing Boulogne  scenes, but Woodman skillfully builds up the tension until the climactic  battle scenes that are some of his best.  Woodman is particularly adept at  describing the confusion of battle.  The reader sees the battles from  Drinkwater's eyes.  Often it's hard to tell who is winning and who is  losing.  Perhaps that's part of Woodman's message, that everybody loses in  war.  Whatever the case, The Corvette is one of Woodman's finest entries in  the Drinkwater series and well worth a reprint.	2000-01-04
US	50734117	RY52Z0Z3RNO6N	0802708862	915734283	The Bomb Vessel	Books	4	19	20	N	N	4 shore shellings for Drinkwater 4	The Bomb Vessel is the fourth installment in the Nathaniel Drinkwater saga following A Brig of War in quick succession.  It features some of the characters from A Brig of War including Mr. Rogers, Tregembo and Mr. Q.   Tregembo has been a mainstay since An Eye of the Fleet and it seems that  Mr. Q will be a regular fixture in future episodes.  Woodman also has a  formidable cast of characters, some real and some fictitious, who interact  against the historical backdrop of the 1801 attack on Copenhagen.  A lesser  author would have stretched this novel into several hundred pages but  Woodman writes economically and focuses on the development of  Drinkwater.<br />By now the reader has a good understanding of Drinkwater.  We  know that he is a very decent family man.  We also know that he can be  caught in conflicts between various loyalties and that he has the quick  wits to make the best of undesirable situations.  We know too as the  faithful Tregembo states, `\\"Men don't cross the lieutenant too  successfully, zur, leastaways not sensible men\\"'.  He is a fierce and  formidable fighting man although his wounds acquired over 20 years of  active service bother him as he approaches 40.  Woodman still has a few  surprises for the reader regarding Drinkwater's abilities.  It turns out  that he had learned a number of skills in the decade plus between An Eye of  the Fleet and A King's Cutter.  I suspect that The Bomb Vessel will not be  the last time that heretofore unknown skills from that long period of  inaction will come in useful.<br />The Bomb Vessel itself is the story of  Nelson's attack on Copenhagen from Drinkwater's perspective.  Apparently  bomb vessels were used for shelling shore targets.  Such duty was  unromantic and dangerous.  Ships of the line typically received the  attention delivering powerful broadsides under sail.  However, a bomb  vessel would have to shell shore targets from an anchored position while  quite probably receiving withering fire.  Thedanger of a tremendous  explosion that would completely destroy the ship and its crew was ever  present.  Drinkwater must overcome these dangers while dealing with  problems from above, problems within his crew and sailing in the Baltic  during a cold Scandinavian spring.<br />Woodman's Drinkwater series is  grittier than earlier series.  The reader will leave The Bomb Vessel with a  better understanding of how ships were provisioned, pursers' roles, and how  buoys were laid.  One will also have a great respect for the impact of shot  and shell on human flesh and the limitations of medicine in 1800.  Men died  and died horribly of wounds, in pre-anaesthetic days, that modern surgeons  could treat very easily.<br />The Bomb Vessel is like other entries in the  series.  It is fast, easy reading although one has to be careful that  crucial details are not missed.  Woodman writes simply but the dialogue  does sound genuine to the time.  I did find the causes of and ultimate  resolution of the Danish conflict somewhat confusing although I suspect  that this is also true to life.  All in all, The Bomb Vessel is a worthy  entry into the Drinkwater series as it casts a unique fictional perspective  on one of the most famous of Nelson's campaigns.  Don't turn a blind eye to  this one!	2000-01-01
US	50734117	R3O6VZMXQ6R1LO	0312856830	288499140	A Deepness in the Sky	Books	5	31	33	N	N	5 first contacts for stellar clash of cultures	Vernor Vinge is one of the least prolific writers of the SF genre, yet his small canon contains some of the modern SF masterpieces.  His True Names, along with Gibson's Neuromancer, is quite clearly an inspiration for works  like The Matrix.  Marooned in Real Time is one of the most unique murder  mysteries, set during time travel after the disappearance of the entire  human race.  A Fire Upon the Deep is a masterful space opera and clear  successor to the novels of Doc Smith.  A Deepness in the Sky is a prequel  to A Fire Upon the Deep and is every bit as good as the earlier novels,  perhaps even better.<br /> A Deepness in the Sky features one of A Fire Upon  the Deep's protagonists, Pham Nuwen.  In the first novel, Nuwen briefly  mentions his life with the space faring Qeng Ho traders.  Deepness features  his last and perhaps greatest adventure among the Qeng Ho.  Nuwen is just  one of many fascinating characters who Vinge has created.  Unlike his  earlier works, in which only a few characters had depth, Deepness has a  large cast of characters and Vinge develops them skillfully.  Vinge draws  from a pool that he has created by merging the Qeng Ho with the tyrannical  Emergents and alien Spiders.  In doing so, he has created a massive tour de  force and one of the great novels of alien first contact.<br />A Deepness in  the Sky is a long novel (over 600 pages) with several different threads  going simultaneously.  We are treated to Pham Nuwen and Ezr Vinh of the  Qeng Ho and Tomas Nau of the Emergents engaging in plots that are only  explained in bits and pieces as the novel progresses.  On the Spider side,  Vinge features Sherkaner Underhill, his family and his friends.  All the  plot lines that feature these characters weave back and forth until  converging in a near 100 page climax with twists and turns along the way.   I did have some difficulty in keeping with the novel in the earlier  passages.  It seemed that as soon as I got interested in the Nuwen  activities, Vinge would switch to the Spiders.  Then as I got interested in  the Spiders, he would switch to Ezr Vinh.  Perhaps Vinge needs to write a  novel like this because of decreasing attention spans but I found that it  took more work to get back into it once I had left it.<br />One of the most  fascinating aspects of the novel is the development of the Spiders.  They  are, well, spiders.  It is hard for most people to find spiders  particularly attractive or endearing.  Many people, myself included, find  them repulsive or at least ugly.  However, the reader gets attached to  these spider characters as much as the human ones, perhaps more so.  For  much of the novel, the spiders appear to be anthropomorphized.  Just when  one is lulled into thinking of them as people, Vinge uses terms like \\"cold  sucks\\" to describe food and \\"eating hands\\" or \\"baby eyes\\" to describe body  parts.  The reason for the humanization of the spiders is explained in the  novel's denouement but as a plot device it is very effective.<br />There are  some major themes that punctuate this novel.  One could easily surmise, for  instance, that Vinge is against the widespread use of Ritalin to sedate  otherwise healthy children.  I find the choice of names for the Qeng Ho and  its people fascinating.  The names all appear to be Vietnamese or at least  south east Asian.  On the other hand, these people seem more like the  Yankee traders of old.  They seem more like Americans than Americans.  Is  Vinge making a statement about the globalization of American culture and  values?  Perhaps the greatest message is that free trade and individual  freedoms are far more productive and enriching than tyrannies and tightly  controlled lives.  Perhaps the WTO should consider buying several hundred  copies of A Deepness in the Sky and mailing them to the Seattle protesters.    Vinge has delivered a powerful statement on the value of capitalism and  the importance of individual initiative.  <br />Ultimately, ADeepness in the  Sky is a hard science fiction novel in which Vinge describes humanity's  first contact with an alien species.  It features an insider's knowledge of  computer programming without providing details that could be either dated  or excessively technical.  It has enough action to keep one on the edge of  one's seat.  In spite of the conclusion of  A Fire Upon the Deep, I doubt  that we have heard the last of Pham Nuwen and I certainly hope that we hear  more from Vernor Vinge.	1999-12-28
US	50734117	R6TBSCA67POR6	0061007161	557309550	First Among Equals	Books	4	31	31	N	N	4 tight election races by political insider	(The following refers to the unabridged audiobook version)<br />First Among Equals profiles the lives of four fictional British politicians from their entry into the House of Commons until one becomes Prime Minister.  Since  Archer was a politician through some of the period that First Among Equals  covers, the novel possesses an insider's knowledge.  It also contains  scheming, shady deals, sex, personal tragedy and terrorism.  It is an  enjoyable story but a little too orchestrated to be plausible.<br />Archer  starts by introducing the reader to four different characters, all of whom  have different skills and different reasons for wanting to be the Prime  Minister.  While the reader is given some background on the characters, the  novel really begins in earnest with the 1964 British general election.  Two  are Conservative Party and two are Labour Party members.  For the next 27  years, Archer guides the readers through the ups and downs of the men's  careers, their personal challenges, and their conflicts.  The reader gets a  sense of the hard work and sacrifice that is required for a politician to  be a good MP and Cabinet Minister.  It is also clear that good luck has a  lot to do with progress; supporting the right leadership candidate at the  right time and picking the right issues to tackle.<br />Archer tells a story  and tells it well.  He effectively builds suspense, can lead the reader in  one direction and then switch direction quickly. First Among Equals is also  not a nasty novel.  Even the rogues have their redeeming points and are  sometimes portrayed sympathetically.<br />First Among Equals is a good read  although I did have some problems.  I did find some of the election races  just too close.  Archer's twists of direction began to get predictable and  manipulative.  The box cover indicated that only one of the four could get  to be Prime Minister and the novel does end with one's appointment.   However, the novel doesn't exclude the possibilityof another individual  achieving the Prime Ministership later.  I was also very disappointed by  the ultimate resolution of the novel.  The last chapter struck me as  unrealistic and contrived.  I just could not believe that it would actually  happen as Archer described it.  Archer constructed a Lady and the Tiger  ending without any explanation for the ultimate decision.  I also had a bit  of difficulty believing that politicians are as straightforward as most of  the ones portrayed.<br />Still, First Among Equals is enjoyable and  educational to some degree.  Politics and politicians can be quite boring.  First Among Equals definitely is not boring.	1999-12-08
