US	50732707	R1ZM43ZS8QGD1	0306802872	993479099	The Aesthetics Of Rock (Da Capo Paperback)	Books	5	8	11	N	N	A masterpiece	Richard Meltzer has been going on for years about how he invented rock criticism.  He probably did, but that's a bit like saying you invented prog-rock - I love prog-rock, or at any rate some of it, but I don't really care who invented it, cause so much of it is just plain awful.  His genius is that he is a great WRITER, on a word-to-word basis.  \\"The Aesthetics of Rock\\" was considered for years as some sort of prank; I once had a rubbishy hack book called \\"Atrocities of Rock & Roll\\", or something, which poked mindless fun at it for being unreadable and pretentious.  It's no more unreadable than James Joyce.  What Meltzer did was to treat rock, or pop, or whatever, as a field worthy of being looked at, if not always taken entirely seriously, and it mattered nothing to him whether the record under examination was by the Beatles or by the Standells - he was looking for whatever all this stuff had in common.  (Personally I think Joe Carducci succeeded better in his wickedly funny \\"Rock and the Pop Narcotic\\", but then Carducci had a much wider field to write about, since his book came out in the 90s and Meltzer's book stops around about 1968.)  <br />To read Meltzer applying Heidegger to doo-wop is to have the structure of your brain rewired in new and interesting ways.  His actual career as a paid-up rock critic was short and, well, sour, although he nobly championed the Minutemen in later years; but by then he had ceased to be on anyone's guest list.  He is a great American writer and this is the opus that gave him, if not exactly fame and fortune, at least notoriety.  You owe it to yourself to check it out, and also his wonderful anthology \\"A Whore Just Like The Rest\\", in which he savagely tears into Greil Marcus' patronising introduction.  A Meltzer could never happen now, when rock writers (I won't dignify them with the name of \\"critic\\") have to be industry ... in order to get any work at all; but at least he's still alive, still sane, still as honest as anyone could hope for, and still writing.	2002-08-22
US	50732707	RSWUZE78LU8SW	0312293135	987104691	The Prime Minister: The Office and Its Holders Since 1945	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Who would've thought it would be such a ramshackle affair?	Peter Hennessy's book is a real eye-opener for someone like me, a half-Irish, half-English person, a citizen of Ireland who nevertheless feels a certain concern for the mother country (and I call it that not just because I was born there but because my mother is English). <br />The lack of a properly constituted British Constitution is one of the main themes of this book.  What emerges from the dizzying to-ing and fro-ing of various governments is the extent to which each postwar Prime Minister has altered the terms of the job, according to what they wanted to achieve, or in the case of the less fortunate ones, what they were unable to achieve.  Hennessy confesses to being an old-school Tory by upbringing, but an Old Labour man by temperament; his most genuine sympathies are displayed in the chapters on Clement Attlee (the immediately post-WW2 prime minister who introduced the National Health Service, amongst other things).  But he is also dazzled by sheer verve in leadership, hence his grudging admiration for Margaret Thatcher.  Yes, she (to use a Hennessy phrase) \\"made the weather\\" in British politics, not least in that she brutally dismantled democratic structures in the name of \\"defeating socialism\\" (her abolition of the Greater London Council is a particularly flagrant example of her contempt for what people actually wanted).  On the other hand, she wrecked countless lives and ruined the fabric of British society in the name of \\"economic growth\\", which turned out to mean short-term gains for a few very rich people.  Thatcher's unrepentant belief in the virtue of a \\"free market\\" (which was never really free anyway, not without vicious tariffs against nations unwilling to accept the terms that Thatcher and Reagan demanded) did uncountable damage to British society.  The wounds that her policies created are deep and festering, and if there's any justice in history (which there isn't), she will be remembered as somebody who sold an extraordinary birthright for a mess of dubious investments.  It takes an outsider to notice these things, but even as a teenager I could see how the Thatcher administration had depressed and demoralised a generation, whilst pumping another generation full of stupid greed and mindless acquisitiveness.  One of the many fallouts of her reign is the sad decline of the BBC from a great national institution to a craven, market-driven supplier of trash.   <br />The chapter on Tony Blair is one of the most interesting things in the book, even if Hennessy withholds final judgment on the guy.  He points out that Blair has brought about some of the most spectacular constitutional changes of anyone since...well, since the war, probably; devolution to Scotland and Wales, some sort of ventures (finally) towards legislation in favour of human rights and freedom of information.  (He doesn't mention the Northern Ireland Assembly, perhaps because it happened to late for the book.)  Personally I reckon that these essays towards democracy have yet to be properly tried.  But his criticisms of Blair's presidential, non-consultative style are accurate and justified.  It remains to be seen if Blair gives a damn. <br />Hennessy's fundamental belief in the traditions (for they are no more than traditions) of British government is the real problem with this book.  He gives great gossip; he is remarkably fair about such neglected periods as James Callaghan's administration (the one in which punk happened, pop culture fans) and the pretty-much stillborn administrations of Alec Douglas-Home, Winston Churchill (in his postwar government) and Harold Wilson's third crack of the whip.  But really, this is an essay about how British government might be better carried on.  He is too neutral, too much of a technocrat, to count the real cost of all these decisions.  Shame, cause otherwise it's a cracking read.	2002-07-05
US	50732707	R1LAV7FC3EX6AD	0907606733	19086418	Stoneybatter: Dublin's Inner-urban Village	Books	1	5	8	N	N	Oh, cheer up, Kevin	Kevin Kearns' book on the inner Dublin area known as Stoneybatter has ambitions to be a work of serious social history, documenting a district that has retained a sense of organic community despite the massive, and frequently utterly insensitive, work of private developers and city planners.<br />It's true that much of the older, inner Dublin has been insensitively knocked down and replaced by more or less ugly and unimaginative modern and feebly postmodern architecture, and that the fabric of old communities has been damaged as a result.  The problem with this book is that Kearns is completely seduced by a dream that the Stoneybatter he is interested in - a community based in the residential area of artisans' dwellings, built mostly in the early decades of the 20th century - was some sort of organic and really, like, yunno, wondrously real and authentic place that defied the awfulness of progress.  In short, that he failed to see that even as he was writing this book (in the late 1980s), that same area was becoming a prime site for relatively cheap rented accommodation, and that the largely elderly population that he chose to interview for this book was not representative of what Stoneybatter was likely to become, but representative of a past that was liable to disappear.<br />In other words, Kearns is fixated on the past.  He fails to understand that any urban community is likely to be continually in flux, and he is only interested in the still-living traces of Stoneybatter's past, not in its future.  The fact that people might move into the area who were just as keen on preserving its admirable architectural features (i.e., sorta cheap high-density housing) has not occurred to him.  As a privileged visitor, he also failed to notice that Stoneybatter in the late 80s was a pretty scary place to visit, if you happened not to be from the area.  Not only did it butt onto one of Dublin's major red-light districts, it was also snuggled up to Arbour Hill prison, a major military installation and a mental hospital, which didn't make new residents like me feel all that safe.<br />Kearns' deep emotional attachment to what he imagines to have been the wonderful sense of community that the place had also blinds him to the basic level of poverty that the inhabitants lived in (and to a certain extent, still do).  He also failed to notice that the explosion in the Irish real estate market meant that even a modest house in the area can now expect to sell for more than a quarter of a million Euros - roughly what you could pay for a more-than-decent condo in Miami.<br />The fact is, the shift in demographics and the death of the largely elderly population of Stoneybatter meant that somebody else had to move in.  I am one of them.  Kearns is not interested in the future of the area, just in preserving its past.  This is a pity, as the truth is always more useful than a consoling fiction.  Stoneybatter has a future still, arguably at the cost of its period quaintness, but there is no lack of a sense of community just cause most people here can no longer remember when milk was delivered by horse cart.  I have lived in the place, on and off, for the last ten years, and I have no intention of letting anyone knock it down while I have a say in the matter.<br />There is much value in the oral histories that Kearns has preserved here.  But his book was out of date before it was ever published.  It so happens that the bulldozers have not yet demolished the artisans' dwellings, if only because they sell for such ridiculously inflated prices.  They are still ludicrously small and shabbily built dwellings, every one of which had to have an extension in order to incorporate an inside toilet.  This book is, in the end, just another sentimental lament for a vanished Dublin.  The only difference is that Kearns got to see it, briefly, before it vanished.r military installation and a mental hospital, which didn't make new residents like me feel all that safe.  <br />Kearns' deep emotional attachment to what he imagines to have been the wonderful sense of community that the place had also blinds him to the basic level of poverty that the inhabitants lived in (and to a certain extent, still do).  He also failed to notice that the explosion in the Irish real estate market meant that even a modest house in the area can now expect to sell for more than a quarter of a million Euros - roughly what you could pay for a more-than-decent condo in Miami.  <br />The fact is, the shift in demographics and the death of the largely elderly population of Stoneybatter meant that somebody else had to move in.  I am one of them.  Kearns is not interested in the future of the area, just in preserving its past.  This is a pity, as the truth is always more useful than a consoling fiction.  Stoneybatter has a future still, arguably at the cost of its period quaintness, but there is no lack of a sense of community just cause most people here can no longer remember when milk was delivered by horse cart.  I have lived in the place, on and off, for the last ten years, and I have no intention of letting anyone knock it down while I have a say in the matter.<br />There is much value in the oral histories that Kearns has preserved here.  But his book was out of date before it was ever published.  It so happens that the bulldozers have not yet demolished the artisans' dwellings, if only because they sell for such ridiculously inflated prices.  They are still ludicrously small and shabbily built dwellings, every one of which had to have an extension in order to incorporate an inside toilet.  This book is, in the end, just another sentimental lament for a vanished Dublin.  The only difference is that Kearns got to see it, briefly, before it vanished.	2002-05-14
US	50732707	R2GHP4XZSWPPD2	0060916575	372252081	Intellectuals:  From Marx and Tolstoy to Sartre and Chomsky	Books	1	28	57	N	N	A waste of perfectly good trees	In this startling book, Paul Johnson claims to find fault with the work of many famous writers because, he says, their personal behaviour was less honourable than the ideas they created, developed or otherwise espoused.  Well, gee, Paul, that's an interesting tactic.  On that basis, Christianity is to be despised because Jesus was rude to his mother (or because He felt that His father, who after all ran the show, wasn't there when He needed Him.)<br />Or you could take the same argument and reverse-engineer it, as it were.  You could say that, because Adolf Hitler was kind to animals and scrupulously courteous to women, that therefore Nazism can't have been such a terrible thing after all.  OK, granted that Hitler took a while to marry Eva Braun, so he was a bit of a cad about that, not to mention that nasty business with Geli Raubal.  But Josef Goebbels and Hermann Goering were happy family men, weren't they?  Not to mention Rudolf Hoess, the commandant of Auschwitz during its period of greatest expansion.  All great believers in hearth and home.  It really clears things up when you look at it that way, doesn't it?<br />One curious fact about this, as I say, startling book is that a striking number of the Intellectuals here displayed with their moral pants down are, goodness me, left-wing intellectuals.  In fact, there's scarcely a conservative to be seen.  Hmmm.  It does rather make you wonder about Winston Churchill, who was a lifelong Tory who, yes, helped to save Britain during the Second World War (for which I am grateful to him, seeing as my mother lived through the same) but who also happened to believe that Arabs were inferior races who didn't deserve to be treated as human.  He also drank like a fish.  Blimey.  And yet Paul had made everything seem so clear.  Now I don't know _what_ to think!<br />The thing about this book that - now that I've mentioned it - is actually startling, is that such an asinine, transparently foolish thesis got as far as being taken seriously by a publisher in the first place.  Johnson is a right-wing bigot whose intelligence has long been corroded by his inability to appreciate any idea that refuses to serve naked power.  Incapable of refuting the arguments of Marx, Rousseau and anybody else he disagrees with, he footlingly attempts to play the man instead of the ball by discrediting the personal lives of better thinkers than him.  Thankfully for the rest of us, Christopher Hitchens beat him at his own game years ago, in a review of this book that told some stories about Johnson's own personal behaviour that it would be impolitic to repeat here (though you can read them yourself in Hitchens' collection \\"Prepared for the Worst\\".)  In the meantime, this is the usual collection of sloppy invective, gasbag harrumphing and hawkish platitudes that Johnson-watchers have learned to expect.<br />I don't believe that there's a single \\"intellectual\\", of any stripe, from Gandhi to Stalin via Noam Chomsky and Norman Podhoretz, who hasn't done something that even their most faithful admirers couldn't find objectionable.  Thing is, Paul, ideas have a life of their own.  It doesn't matter a jot that the person who first had the idea farted in bed or borrowed a lot of money.  A good idea is a good idea, and part of the responsibility of being an intellectual is to sort out the good ideas from the bad - and, in so doing, to determine the truth.<br />Think how many birds might have found perfectly good nests in the trees that were chopped down to print this drivel.  Ah well.g taken seriously by a publisher in the first place.  Johnson is a right-wing bigot whose intelligence has long been corroded by his inability to appreciate any idea that refuses to serve naked power.  Incapable of refuting the arguments of Marx, Rousseau and anybody else he disagrees with, he footlingly attempts to play the man instead of the ball by discrediting the personal lives of better thinkers than him.  Thankfully for the rest of us, Christopher Hitchens beat him at his own game years ago, in a review of this book that told some stories about Johnson's own personal behaviour that it would be impolitic to repeat here (though you can read them yourself in Hitchens' collection \\"Prepared for the Worst\\".)  In the meantime, this is the usual collection of sloppy invective, gasbag harrumphing and hawkish platitudes that Johnson-watchers have learned to expect.  <br />I don't believe that there's a single \\"intellectual\\", of any stripe, from Gandhi to Stalin via Noam Chomsky and Norman Podhoretz, who hasn't done something that even their most faithful admirers couldn't find objectionable.  Thing is, Paul, ideas have a life of their own.  It doesn't matter a jot that the person who first had the idea farted in bed or borrowed a lot of money.  A good idea is a good idea, and part of the responsibility of being an intellectual is to sort out the good ideas from the bad - and, in so doing, to determine the truth.  <br />Think how many birds might have found perfectly good nests in the trees that were chopped down to print this drivel.  Ah well.	2002-05-09
US	50732707	R2C3EII4HF038N	1563898780	574637525	September 11th, 2001 VOL 02	Books	3	32	56	N	N	Hmmm	Firstly - I bought this book.  Therefore, my money went towards the funds that helped victims of the atrocities of 11th September.  It was the least I could do.  (I also signed a book of condolence, but we all know how practically useful _that_ is.)<br />Secondly, this book is a remarkable ragbag of responses to the attack.  One of the striking thing about the 9-11 attack is that it was the first time in nearly 200 years that the US mainland had been attacked.  (Pearl Harbour doesn't count because, at the time, Hawaii was not a state of the US, it was still a \\"dependency\\" - shorthand for \\"ex-colony\\".)<br />The best responses in this book are the ones that take a, shall we say, dialectical response to the attack - those that at once focus on the innocent victims (cause it was a terrorist attack, and terrorism by nature is aimed at targeting the innocent in order to make the guilty feel guilty) and that also have a longer historical perspective.  Because, and I'm almost embarrassed to point this out - the 9-11 attack did not happen because some deluded lunatics somewhere took it into their heads to be mean to Americans.  It was the ultimate suicide attack, the nec plus ultra of the recent bombings in Jerusalem.  <br />The best pieces in this book do not merely recognise the heroism of New York firefighters and police personnel - which is a sort of heroism that I, for one, don't doubt.  But the facts are, this kind of heroism has been displayed around the world by populations under attack from US-funded or US-trained forces.  It's not a very nice fact to have to face, but unless it is faced, there is little chance of events like 9-11 never happening again.<br />The sad thing is, much of the more ambitious pieces in here rely on \\"private\\" tragedy (as if these events had no more significance than the deaths of people in New York) and public jingoism - witness Stan Lee's asinine allegory about sleeping elephants.  Stan, if the elephant's population was happy, it's becauseit had stolen so much from other countries already.  Learn a little history.<br />Those of us who have learned to live with the potential for terrorist attacks on a daily basis are a little less naive than much of the authorship of this book.  I grieve as much as anyone else for the dead of 9-11.  But I cannot pretend that it isn't the kind of thing that happens around the rest of the world, as a result of the insanely inequal distribution of wealth.  <br />This is a good book.   But it is as much symptom as it is diagnosis.	2002-04-20
US	50732707	RGF0FUCL2JGZP	0805058370	439117283	Mason & Dixon: A Novel	Books	4	36	44	N	N	A mellow masterpiece	There is no longer any point in being defensive about Pynchon.  I personally don't have any doubt that, on the strengths of &quot;Gravity's Rainbow&quot; and to a slightly lesser extent &quot;The Crying of Lot 49&quot;, he is the greatest living novelist working in the English language, for what that's worth.  These books are no more demanding than the average Jacobean tragedy.  Which, really, isn't very much.<br />The rewards of Pynchon have always outweighed the difficulties, anyway.  &quot;Mason &amp; Dixon&quot; is perhaps the foundling child of the rumour, current in the 80s, that Pynchon was writing a novel about the Civil War.  He ended up giving us &quot;Vineland&quot;, his frothiest work, which isn't to say that it's not haunted by malevolent spectres of Nixon and Reagan.  &quot;Mason &amp; Dixon&quot; probably demands some vague acquaintance with 18th century fiction, in order to see what Pynchon is getting at stylistically, but really, guys, they're on the shelf at bargain prices, and if you haven't read 'em by now ... Gawd help you.<br />I use the word &quot;mellow&quot; because this seems to me to be a sadder and more tolerant Pynchon at work.  (It may only seem that way cause he's older, and we expect this kind of thing from a Late Style, but nevertheless...I'll get back to you on it when I've read it again.)  He manages to combine a mischievous sense of the contemporary with a feel for the America-before-America that seems somehow right, even if I don't know how.  A good example is the episode where the stuffy Mason and the goofy Dixon pay a call on Colonel George Washington, who happens to be smoking a pipe filled with some substance or other; the three of them promptly get the munchies, and call upon the servants for some eats.  Or the bit when a blue-bespectacled Benjamin Franklin plays a glass harmonica in a chophouse, thereby presaging the phenomenon of the DJ.  Or the scene where the pizza is invented.  And so on.<br />What's surprising and newabout the book is Pynchon's (apparent) uncomplicated fondness for his two heroes.  Mason, pious, middle-class, respectable and socially ambitious - southern English to a T - is forever being embarrassed by the blunt, wide-eyed, Northern Dixon.  It's almost as though he sees future silent comedy duos in this unlikely partnership.  The book is endlessly cheeky, but it has a beating heart, and the heart is in the relationship of the eponymous surveyors.  The closing pages are amongst the most haunting and straightforwardly moving that he has ever written - and yet, in them, there is still a tragic awareness of how American history is going to turn out... <br />Yes, it's &quot;picaresque&quot;, which is to say that it doesn't exactly have a swift, economical plot and isn't exactly unencumbered by digressions.  But these are part of the pleasures of literature, or at least they were until the recent craze for the novel that you read in order to be able to say that you've read it.  &quot;Mason &amp; Dixon&quot; does not yield all its splendours in one go.  Few good novels do.  Hang on - make that _no_ good novels.  Nabokov always said that you never really read a novel, you only reread it - meaning that if you get it all in the first reading, it probably wasn't worth writing.  Pynchon took classes from Nabokov, and this lesson sunk in.  <br />The man is still the greatest, at least in my mother tongue.  (Though I'll wave a small flag with John Berger's name on it, just because I can.)  I just finished this book, and I look forward to a time when I've forgotten what it's like, so that I can read it again.	2002-04-17
US	50732707	RQ1AUGIEX7QFF	0404630774	485015311	If you know not me you know nobody (The Malone Society reprints)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Elizabethan mulch	Well, to be quite accurate, this isn't the complete edition of an all-but forgotten play by an all-but forgotten late Elizabethan/early Jacobean playwright.  &quot;If you know not me, you know nobody&quot; (great title) was in fact a two-part play about the life of Queen Elizabeth 1.  This is part 2, basically a hastily cobbled-together piece for popular consumption, consisting in large part of a highly irrelevant subplot ripped out of an earlier Heywood play about the founding of the Royal Exchange.  (Yeah, I know.  It's as fascinating as it sounds.)<br />So don't come to this hoping to find a forgotten masterpiece.  This is the sort of play that made up the bulk of stuff that Elizabethan playgoers used to watch; crowd-pleasing comedy (a Comic Relief character's major comic trait is his incessant repetitions and variations on the exclamation &quot;Bones a me!&quot;), patriotic guff, and a big C-major chord ending.  The fact that it's survived for four hundred years is more a testament to good scholarship and antiquarianism, than to literary or dramatic taste.  Heywood also wrote a minor classic of domestic tragedy, &quot;A Woman Killed With Kindness&quot;, which is the main reason why a play such as this is still in print.  You know those movies you go and see which you vaguely enjoy but which have slipped your mind a week later?  This is the early 17th-century equivalent.<br />It is kept in print thanks to the good offices of UMI, who print facsimiles from an early 20th century edition (The Mermaid Series, 1935 or so).  The photo-reproductions from the title page are pretty appalling, but the text itself is well reproduced.  Only Heywood scholars, or weirdos like me, could possibly be interested in this - as fine an example of historical literary mediocrity as you're likely to find.<br />Poor old Thomas Heywood.  You don't even get Part 1 for your money.	2002-01-18
US	50732707	R2QZVMDWKVRJRB	1873790031	16263430	Poems and Versions, 1929-90	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A great but uneven poet	Brian Coffey was one of Ireland's all-but forgotten modernists.  He came to maturity under the shadow of Joyce, and like his better-remembered friends Denis Devlin and Thomas MacGreevy, he rejected the influence of Yeats, who seemed to him dangerously irresponsible in his refusal to write &quot;pure&quot; poetry.  Coffey cleaved instead to the French symbolists that Yeats had absorbed and moved on from, and spent a lot of time translating Mallarme - his version of Mallarme's typographically wacky &quot;Un Coup de Des...&quot; is one of the great out-of-print masterpieces from the sadly-missed Dolmen Press.<br />Coffey moved to America to teach (Maths, if you can believe it) and formed his own rather meditative idiom, which reads a little like some of the later poetry of Samuel Beckett - a spare, haunted voice.  Some of his later poetry I find a little unrelieved in its spiritual extremity, though he can be sharp and aggressive in a strangely oracular way.  His earliest stuff, from the 30s, is jaunty, bleak and hilarious in a way that no other Irish poet has ever achieved.  He sometimes reads a little like that remarkable Australian phantom, Ern Malley.  Coffey scholars value most highly the long &quot;Missouri Sequence&quot; from the 60s, and the later &quot;Death of Hektor&quot;, but Coffey also wrote strange satirical works, published invariably by tiny independent presses, while the increasingly pedestrian mainstream of Irish poetry in the 70s and 80s simply ignored him.  (He was nearly left out of the Faber Book of Irish Verse, but some younger poets implored the editor to include him.  Thomas Kinsella's Oxford anthology ignores him completely, an omission for which Kinsella should be ashamed.)<br />His translations are highly eccentric and almost quixotically faithful to the original.  They are not creative translations - he doesn't do to Mallarme or Nerval what Paul Schmidt did to Rimbaud, but rather tries to retain some of the weird music of the originals ina ruthlessly un-English idiom.  Nabokov would've loved him.<br />Coffey's influence is alive today in the highly interesting and very hard-to-find strain of postmodernist Irish poetry.  He can make more voluminous and big-voiced poets like Kinsella or John Montague seem like waffling frauds.  The elegant games of Derek Mahon seem trivial compared to his gravity and concision.  He is far above the mediocrity of a Michael Longley or a Paul Durcan.  He died in 1994 - belatedly and posthumously honoured.  He was and is a gem.	2002-01-08
US	50732707	R14255KTN5J4YH	0385484364	520116510	Night Beat: A Shadow of Rock & Roll	Books	1	16	29	N	N	Corporate blah	&quot;Shadow history of rock and roll&quot;, pshaw.  Gilmore writes for Rolling Stone, for godsake.  Let's get some perspective here.<br />This book is chiefly interesting as a window into the mind of a perfectly average corporate shill of an American pop music writer.  Gilmore's lack of comprehension of the music going on around him is evident on every page.  He takes every artist at the word of his or her publicist - witness his abandoned buying-into the myth of Sinead O'Connor, in which he utterly fails to realise that her real value is as an irritant celebrity, not as a music maker (let's face it, her music is too limp and lame to be taken seriously, while her vocal range has only two registers - Bawl and Whimper).  His article on punk is risibly stupid.  A writer as intelligent as Michael Azerrad recognised that, for a while, the most vital rock music in America was being made by a clutch of poor bands on small independent labels.  Gilmore dismisses them in a paragraph, going on to discuss The Punk Scene as a slightly worrying development cause why aren't we all grooving to the healthy sound of Bruce Springsteen?  Because he's a ridiculous clown, Mikal, that's why.  Richard Meltzer has cross-examined the Springsteen myth better than I ever could in his superb &quot;A Whore Just Like The Rest&quot;, but it still needs to be said.  These are the writings of a man who genuinely believes that, because it's on the Billboard Top 100, it must be good.  It is not anti-democratic to suggest otherwise.  The fact that a record is commercially successful is not necessarily evidence of the healthy will of the US record-buying public, rather proof of the total control major labels exert upon the playlists of FM radio.  But Gilmore can't bring himself to see that, which is why this book is largely a collection of worshipful articles about mediocrities.<br />This is perhaps the only writer who would seriously consider that an article on someone as lacklustre as David Baerwaldwas worth preserving in the files, let alone reprinting in book form.  I don't care that Mikal is Gary Gilmore's half-brother.  So his family life is tortured.  It didn't make him a good rock writer.  He has a tin ear, and a wretchedly feeble &quot;liberal&quot; conscience that mistook vain posturing and empty quasi-music for artistic achievement.  (He takes U2 seriously.  Puh-leeeez.)  <br />This book is awful.  A far better one, covering the same period, is Joe Carducci's &quot;Rock and the Pop Narcotic&quot;.  Buy that instead.	2002-01-04
US	50732707	R106H5XBYJ24ZN	0743518160	785819131	The Body Artist [UNABRIDGED] Audio book	Books	5	2	3	N	N	After the deluge, the weird calm	This being a review of the audiobook version of the novel, I'm going to praise both DeLillo's writing and somebody's inspired choice of Laurie Anderson to read the book.  But first, the words.<br />I'm slightly ashamed to admit that I didn't much like Underworld.  For me, one of DeLillo's greatest talents is his quite uncanny ear for American dialogue.  I think that his art is at its finest when it's investigating silences, ellipses, gaps, beneath the frantic public/private hum of American realities.  (He is one of the very, very few contemporary novelists in any language who also writes good plays.)  Underworld seemed to me too sprawling, too obviously grab-all and catch-all.  The Body Artist I read in a single evening and came away from changed.  It's one of the finest, most beautiful distillations of the blank mystery in American life that DeLillo has ever done.  It has as much felt reality as White Noise or Libra, but the nature of the experience is still so strange as to make it a book we could hardly expect from a writer who's just finished something as sprawlingly There as Underworld.  Lauren is utterly believable, to the point where you wonder if you haven't read something about her work in some back issue of October or Artforum somewhere - and yet she is a creation.<br />So it needs to be said that the choice of Laurie Anderson as a reader of the audiobook is both a good joke and a brilliant decision.  Anderson's cool, slightly lispy voice is not as trained as we expect from Audiobook readers (actors, most of 'em) but it is perfectly pitched to the careful, slightly slangy, reflective tone of DeLillo's prose.  The occasional phrase slips by obscurely (you realise how much DeLillo's writing needs to go straight from the page into the ear - having it read sort of slurs it a bit) but she does a beautiful job.  This is just the CD to take on a long train journey, given a reasonably quiet train and a couple of hours off to eat and think a bit.  And the same goesfor the book.  <br />I trust that there are more books in DeLillo.  He isn't an old fart yet, not by a long way.  But this one displays his essentially rather weird talent more nakedly than any other for a long time.  He remains one of America's finest and most subliminally alarming writers.  His best stuff haunts you like nobody else - or not since Paul Auster gave up the attempt to be anything more than a sort of sub-Joel Chandler Harris, anyway.	2002-01-03
US	50732707	RRGXB5K5FFCB2	0815607237	300422985	002: New Plays from the Abbey Theatre: Volume Two, 1996-1998 (Irish Studies)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A useful guide to what's been going in Irish theatre lately	Okay.  I am slightly biased in my review of this book, for reasons which will become clear later on.  First off, it should be said that it looks great; glossy and well-manufactured, on acid-free paper, it will last a good long while (though don't put it in your windowsill - I put my copy of the first volume there and it's paled noticeably.)  <br />Judy Friel's short essay on Patrick Mason's tenure as artistic director of Ireland's national theatre is very good about Mason's sense of historical mission.  He opened the theatre up to younger writers and actors, giving lucrative and welcome jobs to the many talented people that had arisen from the fringe theatre scene that exploded in Dublin in the early 90s.  He also brought plays such as &quot;Angels in America&quot; to an audience that might never otherwise have seen them.  (Not many saw &quot;Angels&quot; - scared off by the rumour of Gay People On Stage, they stayed away in droves and it bombed, which was a shame as it was a fine production, albeit only of Part 1.)  <br />Michael Harding is an Abbey regular and &quot;Sour Grapes&quot; is his jaundiced look at the modern priesthood.  Not entirely unexpectedly, he finds it riddled with cynicism, abuse of power and faithlessness.  The play was intensely topical, because at the time it went on, the country was swamped with revelations (sic) about sexual abuse in the clergy.  I find Harding's tone a bit dour and depressed, but there's no doubting the power of the piece, and it certainly reflects a changing attitude in Ireland towards the Catholic church.<br />Thomas Kilroy's &quot;The Secret Fall of Constance Wilde&quot; is an elegant meditation on the marriage of Oscar and Constance.  It's a bit of a shadowplay, highly stylised, with masked puppetteers manipulating all the bit parts - the only speaking characters are Ozzie, his lady wife and his nemesis Lord Alfred Douglas, a handsome devil but by all accounts a truly appalling human being.  (A recent biographer thought differently, but then said biographer was only 21 when the biography in question was published, so me may forgive him his youthful...well, ignorance.)  Kilroy's conclusion is that Constance was a woman well and truly wronged, and it's hard to argue with that, although I don't know if this piece has the richness and conviction of some of his earlier work.<br />Alex Johnston's &quot;Melonfarmer&quot; is a sprawling monster of a piece that goes on much too long, but then it's a first play.  (That's no excuse, mind.)  I think the author spends a little too much time showing off his neat ear for the evasions and ellipses of youthful speech patterns, but there's a basic emotional honesty and a certain beady-eyed unsentimentality that readers may find refreshing.  It has some moments of completely bizarre humour and an extremely nasty scene involving a bullet in the foot, both of which were thoroughly up my artistic street.  If this writer worked a bit more on his stagecraft, he could get somewhere.  I liked it a lot, but then, like I said at the top, I'm biased, cause - I wrote it.<br />Lastly, Marina Carr's &quot;By the Bog of Cats&quot; is a truly weird, slightly kitschy attempt to rewrite the Medea story as a domestic tragedy set in the Irish Midlands.  This would be a great idea, except that Carr goes on to mess it up with a lot of musty sub-Yeatsian symbolism (black swans, ghosts, bogs) and a plot that is so plotted that you only really need to see the first scene to guess how it's all going to work out.  But then, this kind of thing is just not for me.  Carr is one of Ireland's leading playwrights, but the ends to which she uses her great gifts are getting increasingly obscure to me.<br />Anyway, I thought it might be interesting to have one of the writers review the book.  All of these plays are eminently stageable, but I'll bet there's not a theatre out there that would want to do every one of them - except the Abbey, bless it.	2001-12-28
US	50732707	R38SIR835PX1Y	061812764X	396726984	J.R.R. Tolkien: Author of the Century	Books	4	48	54	N	N	Robustly polemical and highly entertaining	We hear a lot from Tolkien fans about how this book isn't much of a patch on the same author's earlier \\"The Road to Middle-Earth\\".  (...) this book is an acute, well-argued, loving and intelligent study of one of the century's most maligned authors.<br />Yes, I said \\"maligned\\".  Those, like me, who are not great fans of fantasy fiction as such, tend to find it a bit difficult to take Tolkien seriously.  My own trajectory as a Tolkien reader has gone from utter worship (aetat 11 or so) via contempt and ridicule (aetat 24) to enjoyment and respect (aetat 31), and Shippey's book is partly to thank for this.  One of his sharper insights is that a taste for Tolkien seems to be something that people have to be \\"educated out of\\" - i.e., that exposure to a modern literary studies curriculum is almost guaranteed to eradicate those more primitive parts of the imagination that respond to the kind of populist yarn-spinning that Tolkien was, almost despite himself, supremely good at.  (This certainly accords with my experience.)<br />I say \\"almost despite himself\\" because one of the things I learned from this book was that Tolkien worked far harder on developing the mythological background to \\"The Hobbit\\" and \\"Lord of the Rings\\" than he spent on actually writing those books; indeed, that long after he'd published \\"The Hobbit\\" and was at work on its august sequel, he had to go back and revise it so as to make it fit in with the overall plan.  I have a certain polite interest in \\"The Silmarillion\\" and the voluminous posthumous books of early drafts, but for me, by far the best of Tolkien is to be found in his two most famous books.  <br />Shippey makes out a pretty good case for why these books deserve to be regarded as classics, especially \\"The Lord of the Rings\\", which he clearly regards as being on a par with Orwell's \\"Animal Farm\\" and Pynchon's \\"Gravity's Rainbow\\".  These are two books that I hold in the highest esteem, albeit for very different reasons, and for a Lit boy likeme it's been a sweet, but sobering process to admit \\"The Lord of the Rings\\" into their sombre company.  Shippey can make you read the book in a new way - it no longer seems like a daft and slightly overlong romp for eternal teenagers, but like a grim, adult and rather downbeat modern novel in a fantastic mode.  Hell, he's even got me reading \\"Beowulf\\".  That can't be bad, despite Woody Allen's crack about it in \\"Annie Hall\\".<br />I think it's a bit sad for Tolkien that the two books he wrote as more-or-less spinoffs from the great work of his imagination are the ones he is most remembered for, but it's just, nonetheless, as they are by far his best books.  I'll keep on reading \\"Lord of the Rings\\" for pleasure and profit.  \\"The Silmarillion\\" and its kindred...well, to be frank, they'll be lucky if I pick 'em up now and again to check a reference.  Shippey's skill, sardonic wit, commitment to popular taste and respect for the intelligence of his reader make this a better critical study than many others I can think of, about far more \\"literary\\" writers.  Author of the Century?  I'm not so sure - I'm too much of a Joyce fan.  But it's time a lot of readers admitted that there's a lot of empty guff out there masquerading as \\"serious\\" literature (Saul Bellow, step to the front of the class) while books as good as Tolkien's (and Philip K. Dick's, and Ursula Le Guin's) are ignominiously written off as \\"genre\\" fiction.  (...)	2001-11-17
US	50732707	R2N08O3RTVGIR3	0395925037	589962776	Mein Kampf	Books	5	28	48	N	N	It's rubbish.  You ought to have a look at it	Mein Kampf is a conundrum of a book.  Hitler wrote it whilst serving an absurdly truncated prison sentence for attempting to overthrow the democratically elected government of Bavaria.  Even with the editorial advice of better-educated friends and sympathisers, it's still a turgid, rambling, humourless (!), frequently mendacious read.  Hitler frequently lies about his own life and career (for example, he casually omits to mention that he used to be an Army propagandist for the Social Democrat government, before he ever got interested in the fledgling German Workers Party that would evolve into the Nazi Party).  He churns out a lot of stamped-in-tin rhetoric about the evils of democracy, and there's some sub-pornographic BS about curly-haired Jews raping Aryan maidens.<br />Nevertheless, a lot of very committed and dangerous people think that this book is a masterpiece.  This is perhaps because they are too lacking in any sense of justice and human decency to see that the man who wrote this book went on to cause an unimaginably destructive and needless war, destroying the country he claimed to love in the process.  <br />This needs to be said: Hitler was not some supernatural genius.  He was a beerhall orator, with unusual gifts of persuasion and a raw tactical skill, who rose to prominence because power interests around him had no faith in anything better coming along.  Ian Kershaw's excellent biography makes this clearer than anything I could say.  It's worth pointing out that Hitler himself, once he had gained the Chancellery, admitted that if he'd known he was ever going to get that far, he'd never have written this book.  It exposes him for the small-minded, unimaginative, hate-ridden racist he was, and he knew as much himself.<br />It's a bloody awful read, but it remains the best guide there is to the cramped and stuffy little world that is the imagination of the Nazi.  Or, for that matter, Neo-Nazi.	2001-11-10
US	50732707	RHR76S8WCNP1S	1854593307	208180954	Revenger's Tragedy	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Tourneur?  Middleton?  Who cares?	OK.  The jury has more or less decided that &quot;The Revenger's Tragedy&quot; is not by Cyril Tourneur after all, but by Thomas Middleton.  This is on strictly scholarly grounds.  Either way, it scarcely matters, as this play is strictly sui generis.  It's like nothing else either Tourneur or Middleton ever wrote.<br />The best way to think of it is as standing in a relation to the classic Jacobean and Elizabethan tragedies of Kyd, Shakespeare, Webster and Middleton sort of like the way Quentin Tarantino's early films stand in relation to previous Hollywood classics.  Whoever wrote this, they were Taking The P*ss.  The play starts in next-to-top gear, and accelerates into warp speed fairly quickly.  Few other plays of the era (this is roughly contemporaneous with &quot;King Lear&quot;, to give you an idea) are so ruthlessly efficient.  The basic plot is put in motion by two brothers, Vindice and Hippolito, who are a bit cheesed off because the egregious Duke (of wherever) killed Vindice's wife cause she wouldn't put out.  From here proceeds a bizarre and increasingly unlikely series of revenges, climaxing in a frankly chortlesome mass slaying.  Vindice is the juiciest role - a bit like Shakespeare's Richard III, he guides the audience through the action, but with far greater economy and far less wrangling of conscience, not that Crookback Dick is noted for his remorse.<br />By the end, the stage is littered with bodies, and Vindice and Hippolito cheerfully go off to execution, with barely a qualm in sight.  This is truly the most cynical and the funniest of all Jacobean tragedies.  Whoever wrote it, be it Cyril or Tom, was thinking along the same lines Howard Hawks was on when he (Hawks) turned &quot;Rio Bravo&quot; from a Western into a chamber comedy.  It's all thoroughly reprehensible, and great fun.  You want depth, try John Webster.<br />There aren't many four-hundred-year-old plays that I laugh aloud at whilst reading, but this is one of them.  Pace the opinion below, it couldn't have less to do with Jonson's careful layering of reality if it tried.  It's a brisk, bleak, savage cartoon.  Full marks, whoever you were.	2001-11-10
US	50732707	R3ZF9XA2SD1EX	0393307050	680723399	Master and Commander	Books	4	2	5	N	N	A ripping yarn	Okay, first of all, four stars because: while I enjoyed this book immensely, had nothing but admiration for the research that must have gone into it, and the author's ability to project his imagination back to 1800 and to induce, from what must have been the careful perusal of a lot of dry documents at the Public Record Office at Kew, a whole way of life and mode of speech - still, still, still, something at the back of my mind is nagging at me that O'Brian's novels might not, in fact, be a sort of really good airport literature.<br />Who knows?  Maybe that means they'll survive longer than a lot of &quot;proper&quot; literature - perhaps, in centuries to come (if there _are_ any centuries to come), people will regard O'Brian as one of the great late 20th century novelists and David Foster Wallace or Bret Easton Ellis will be forgotten.  Shakespeare hardly ever set a play in his own time and place (&quot;The Merry Wives of Windsor&quot; is the only one I can think of.)  <br />But I've read a few of the Aubrey/Maturin series by now and while I still enjoy them hugely, I think I'm beginning to pin down their appeal.  They read like the Regency novels we never actually got to read.  These guys are, if you like, the barely-glimpsed romantic nauticals in Austen's &quot;Persuasion&quot;, except this time it's from their point of view.  O'Brian, writing in the 70s/80s/90s, can use swearwords with impunity (and does - the f-word only ever gets spelled out when it's used amongst equals, the rest of the time being represented as a hyphen, in canny pastiche 18th-century manner).  There is a prodigal scattering of jargon (his diction is infectious, as you can see) which makes us modern readers feel pleasantly ignorant and lubberly.  There is a largely unquestioned respect for military prowess and a certain lack of curiosity about the ends to which this prowess is put.<br />I say &quot;largely&quot; because, for a sceptical left-winger like me, the presence of ex-United IrishmanStephen Maturin is what saves these books from just being gentlemen's club entertainments.  Maturin is the more worried, worrying character than his friend Jack.  Jack does the heroics, fer shure, but Stephen is the one who gets to reflect on what's going on, and here O'Brian's irresponsible creative power subverts his Old Tory instincts.  Maturin gets to criticise the government - albeit privately, in his diary, and his public actions remain staunchly loyal - but still, he is the main focus of dissent and reflection in the whole series.  Sorry to reduce it all to politics, but this is a book I thought I'd never enjoy - some very stupid people have praised it and I'm trying to reclaim it for my own side.  But then, I haven't read all twenty-odd books in this series so perhaps it gets more complicated.<br />Part of the pleasure of these books is of course the chance to escape into an utterly different world, and O'Brian is brilliant at creating that world.  They talk a bit different, they shamelessly drink humongous quantities of alcohol, they make crap jokes, and it's all very clubby and fun.  And there's nothing wrong with that.  These books are superb entertainment, and in their scrupulous attention to historical detail they are deeply interesting and conscientious works of art.  But, in terms of story, they fall down.  They are really fictional chronicles - things happen, the main characters bowl along, and they keep on doing so for twenty volumes.  But as for the moral power of story to make us reflect on the characters, I don't see a lot of that going on.  It's sort of Naval Soap.  (Again, I haven't read all the books so perhaps I have yet more to learn.)<br />O'Brian's death means that there'll be no more.  It's perhaps a shame that he never got to write a single, classic, consummating volume - that he never got to write the &quot;War and Peace&quot; that he always seemed to be threatening to do.  But in the meantime, they're great fun.  I'm just not sure that their ease and dash makes them better books than some more knotty, contemporary writing I could think of.	2001-10-30
US	50732707	R3F6ZMVW0TRZCW	0679730672	912151089	Out of Place: A Memoir	Books	5	46	51	N	N	One of the more disarming memoirs of recent times	Edward W. Said's &quot;Out of Place&quot; is one of the most moving books I've ever read.  The great British TV dramatist Dennis Potter said that autobiography is the most fraudulent of literary modes; he just couldn't believe that people wouldn't lie about themselves.  Potter himself told a lot of embarrassing truths about himself in fictional form; Said's book is a noble reminder that some people still believe that the facts are not only worth telling but can be told.<br />The farcical charge that this book is a &quot;quickie&quot; written to pre-empt an article about Said's alleged coverup of his personal history can be easily dismissed.  The article came out in &quot;Commentary&quot;, a magazine that has never ceased to encourage Israel to become the United States' hired gun in the Middle East, thereby doing a lot to destroy Israel in the process. (Fortunately, the Israeli press are less corruptible than their American counterparts, and have never ceased to treat Said as someone whose opinion was worth listening to).  And anyway, the sheer literary quality of the book belies any idea that it was dashed off in a hurry.<br />Said hasn't spent decades teaching literature without any sense of how to write well.  He brings to life a world that is literally lost - that of pre-1948 Palestine and pre-Nasser Cairo.  He describes his father's terrifying inability to take his own son seriously, while still paying tribute to the man's extraordinary genius at business.  His descriptions of his relationship with his mother rival Proust.  His sharp analysis of his own education is generous but never sentimental.  For a book written in the shadow of its author's impending death, this is an amazingly revealing portrait of the critic as a young man.  <br />Said's intelligence, his sympathy, his vividly felt pain at what happened to the world that he grew up in, puts his mindless critics to shame.  He is still working; still reminding us about the value of secular culture againstreligious fanaticism, still reinterpreting the classics of Western culture for a world that seems to grow smaller, not bigger, every day.  He will be sorely missed, but this small book will serve with the rest of his work as a memento to the difficulty of knowing what is true and what is merely easy to get along with.	2001-10-25
US	50732707	R3LWUJ0IA4O6JB	0876331207	880659390	Raymond Pettibon: A Reader	Books	5	9	9	N	N	I didn't even know he'd become this famous...	As someone who first encountered Raymond Pettibon's alarming artwork on the covers of Black Flag and Minutemen LPs I'd bought in the late 80s, I sort of assumed that, by now, he'd sunk back into even more obscurity than he was subject to then.  Imagine my surprise when I picked up this thing in a secondhand bookshop in Dublin - an anthology of various writings over the last few thousand years (the oldest extract is from the &quot;Wisdom of Solomon&quot;, the most recent is a truly scary extract from Charles Manson's trial testimony), interspersed with Pettibon drawings, and with a good handful of critical essays on the man's work from, like, Serious Critics.  The whole was published to coincide with an exhibition of the man's work organised by the Philadelphia Museum of Art and the Renaissance Society of the University of Chicago.  I mean, this man did the cover for &quot;Slip It In&quot;.  Something very odd is going on.<br />But Pettibon has truly paid his dues, what with years of turning out small handmade zines and what can't have been especially remunerative cover artwork from that least MTV of bands, Black Flag.  So if he's suddenly become a major American artist, good luck to him.<br />The extracts are a fascinating lot.  There are some old favourites like Borges' &quot;The Library of Babel&quot; and Walter Benjamin's fond account of being a book collector, &quot;Unpacking my Library.&quot;  There's a gory bit of Mickey Spillane and a beady-eyed extract from Cornel Woolrich's &quot;Rear Window&quot;.  There are also Swift, Johnson, Coleridge, Robert Burton, Henry James, Marcel Proust, Ludwig Wittgenstein, Catullus, Mary Baker Eddy, Hart Crane and many, as they say, more.  If nothing else, this is a splendid companion for a medium-length train journey through purgatory.  <br />The Pettibon drawings range from his sardonic early work to his more enigmatic recent stuff, and are all excellent.  The critical essays are mostly very good, too, although there's a characteristically obtuse piece by Benjamin Buchloh in which the art-mag jargon seems not so much written as stamped out of tin.  (To balance this, there's also a gruesomely funny piece by someone called &quot;Bernard Welt&quot; that could stand as a good short story, and for all I know really is one.)<br />Pettibon is notoriously prolific, and it's a shame that there's a lot more other-people's-text in here than his drawings, but this is still a great book, and stakes a good claim for his &quot;status&quot; in the &quot;art world&quot;, whatever that means.  Hardcore is alive and well and selling for hundreds of dollars to private collectors in Zurich, apparently.	2001-10-15
US	50732707	R3NNJVRA5G08X6	0451452615	511955488	Bored of the Rings: A Parody of J. R. R. Tolkien's Lord of the Rings	Books	3	10	17	N	N	Kaboom! they went, and yet the great bird flew on	This brutal parody of cuddly old Prof Tolkien's doorstop of a novel is mostly of interest to Tolkien fans with a well-developed sense of humour, and anybody who just hates anything hobbit-related.  It has to be said that, if you read this at a tender age, it could seriously spoil your enjoyment of LOTR; it could, but it might not.  Some of the parody is really about Tolkien fans rather than the book itself - Tom Bombadil becomes a burned-out acidhead with an equally spacy girlfriend, and there's a general air about the whole thing of preppy Harvard types who've listened to too many comedy records, sniggering at the counterculture.  (A lot of the jokes turn on replacing names with brandnames - Frodo becomes Frito, Saruman Serutan, etc.  I just didn't get any of these, because these products are only sold in the USA.)  <br />The really cruelly accurate stuff is deeper and more subtle.  Tolkien fans may or may not have noted that Aragorn, military leader of more or less the whole novel, seldom seems to do any actual fighting.  This is beadily observed by the authors, who represent him as an incompetent blowhard - after a battle, they list all the feats of valour by Gimlet and Legolam (sic) and add &quot;and Strider (sic again) was off somewhere probably doing something pretty much brave.&quot;<br />&quot;Lord of the Rings&quot;, whatever its other virtues, isn't exactly a great laff, and this book is certainly a hoot once or twice round.  But overall it's a bit thin and clever-clever, and its republication now, with the movie coming out, is just as brazenly cynical as its original publication during the initial wave of Tolkien Frenzy.  But so what?  If it had pulled more punches, it wouldn't be as funny.<br />And so it goes on, clinging to its mighty (and largely oblivious) host like a demented remora.  Ah, the fortunes of satire...	2001-10-15
US	50732707	R3JBKAZF1HGU9F	0374523495	58480373	Deterring Democracy	Books	5	47	52	N	N	One of Chomsky's best	Like a lot of people, I came across this particular work of Chomsky's before any of the rest, perhaps because it was the first in a long time that was brought out by a major publishing corporation (Vintage UK, a division of Random House) and not by a smaller, more radical press.  (Sobering to remember that his first major political work, &quot;American Power and the New Mandarins&quot;, was published in the UK by Penguin.)  It changed the way I think about the world.<br />It's significant that critics of Chomsky's political writings have very little means at their disposal with which to criticise him.  They can claim that he quoted one source out of context (even if this were true - one source out of the hundreds cited in the whole book?  Chomsky didn't make up NSC 68, it's in the archives for anyone to read...); they can claim that he's a bolshevik who should go back to Russia (in spite of his lifelong denunciations of the Soviet regime, and his deep-rooted mistrust of state power in general - in fact, Chomsky has often said that the reason he hasn't denounced the crimes of the Soviet regime more often is because he didn't need to, practically everybody else did); they can claim that he denied the Khmer Rouge atrocities (he never has, in fact he has compared it in scale to the activities of Indonesia in East Timor - however, plenty of people have pretended that he's denied KR atrocities, especially in the French press - see his &quot;Language and Politics&quot; for the details) or that he's a Holocaust denier (which he isn't; he defended the right of a Holocaust denier to free speech, while publicly disassociating himself from the man's opinions, on the grounds that if you don't give your enemies the right to free speech then &quot;free speech&quot; is meaningless).  The fact is, most people who have a problem with Chomsky base their criticisms on what other critics of him have said, and never bother to actually read his work.<br />This is a pity, as Chomsky is notso much a theorist of politics as a sort of higher journalist.  His method is to present us with facts - documents, statements, commentary - and invite us to draw conclusions based upon them.  He is far from being a &quot;conspiracy theorist&quot;; he shows us that there is no conspiracy, that it's going on right under our noses, in the pages of our newspapers, on our TV news bulletins, albeit tarted up and edited to seem like it's something else.  So that the invasions of Panama and Grenada are, in some way, of a higher moral order than the invasion of Kuwait - the first are &quot;defending the national interest&quot;, the second is &quot;violating the rights of a sovereign country&quot;.  The actions were much the same in terms of human consequences, i.e. invading a country and killing civilians, but our justifications (when we bother to provide any) are assumed, without explanation, to be impeccable, whereas our enemies' actions must ipso facto be the work of Satan.  <br />The recent events in New York and Washington are tragic and appalling.  No less tragic and appalling were the thousands of deaths in El Salvador caused by US-trained death squads, or the suffering caused to innocents by sanctions against Iraq (which Saddam Hussein, a vicious despot and former trusted US client, is able to exploit by whipping up anti-US sentiment).  It all gets a little bit clearer when you start separating people from states.  States make policies, people suffer from them.  Chomsky's humane anarchism increasingly seems like the only possible solution to the violence that threatens to worsen the divides that our governments and others have already created in the world.<br />It must be said that his literary style, while dry, factual and effective enough, is tough to read in large doses - although maybe it's the terrible nature of his subject matter that's exhausting.  But that misses the point.  These are books to use as resources, not as cheerful afternoon reading.  They are tools, not fun reads.  His published interviews are generally easier to get through, and he even displays a vein of sarcastic wit that's absent from his books.  But what an example he remains, to anyone concerned with the crimes that are done in our name.  He can't have a hell of a long time left on the planet, and when he goes, he will be sorely missed.  But he has inspired many others to follow his example, and for this alone, anyone interested in the _true_ meaning of freedom and democracy must be grateful.	2001-09-30
US	50732707	R2X4PN5PY5BFAE	0674003020	572373671	Reflections on Exile and Other Essays (Convergences (Cambridge, Mass.).)	Books	4	11	14	N	N	A wildly diverse collection, but still brilliant	The lies about Edward Said are more frequently encountered than his actual words, at least as far as most of the media are concerned, which is another reason to actually read his books, as opposed to reading people's opinions about them.  He is supposed to be a Marxist (because he occasionally writes about Marx as somebody whose thinking has had a concrete effect upon the world, which, let's face it, it has had); he is supposed to be an apologist for terrorism (never mind that, as Forrest Gump would say, terrorism is as terrorism does - that, for example, the Contras were, from the Sandinistan point of view, terrorists, but because they were trained and funded by the CIA they are instead &quot;freedom fighters&quot;).  He is supposed, by some reviewers, to believe that &quot;all texts are meaningless&quot; and that what writers intend has nothing to do with anything.  A quick glance at his actual works will dispel all these illusions, unless you are so emotionally committed to a certain point of view that your rational brain is on permanent holiday in the Adirondacks, or wherever.<br />On top of all this, the fact that he's a tenured professor in Columbia is supposed to mitigate against his qualifications for explaining and interpreting the complexities of Arabic culture to the rest of us.  Oh, he's a martini-sipping Bach-lover, what does he know about oppression.  Nobody supposes that the fact that, say, Harold Bloom, is also a tenured professor, should detract from Bloom's qualities as an expert on European and American culture.  <br />His most famous work has probably been his meticulous unpicking of the attitudes of European and American colonists towards &quot;the Orient&quot; - a phrase that can only appear within inverted commas after reading his brilliant &quot;Orientalism&quot;.  But this collection, representing 30 years of reviews and speeches, reveals the (to me) startling range of Said's interests.  There are meticulous and beautifully forensic essays on TE Lawrence and Samuel Huntington (the latter particularly timely, as Huntington has been widely cited in the aftermath of September 11th, and Said shows us just how partisan and polemical Huntington's supposedly objective analysis is.)  There's also a tender tribute to Johnny Weissmuller's portrayal of &quot;Tarzan&quot;, and a spirited eulogy to a celebrated belly-dancer, as well as a wonderful introduction to &quot;Moby-Dick&quot; that, to me, represents the best Melville criticism I've ever seen.<br />Said is one of the few intellectuals in America who has never ceased to be aware of the potentially disastrous separation of culture from politics.  His career has been both a crusade against misinformation and lies, and a noble tribute to the power of culture to help us think again about reality.  This book is an excellent introduction to his work.	2001-09-28
US	50732707	RMDARPTRH2D6C	0394729226	139677588	In the Freud Archives	Books	5	34	37	N	N	Too good to be called journalism	Janet Malcolm's study of the controversy over the Freud Archives is one of the finest pieces of non-fiction of the last twenty years.  It deals with the appointment of Jeffrey Masson as head of the Freud Archives, his subsequent discovery and publication of much of Freud's correspondence, and his claims that Freud's abandonment of the &quot;seduction theory&quot; invalidates the entire discipline of psychoanalysis - and the bomb this planted beneath the reputation of Freud and the field he pioneered.<br />The story has been knocking about ever since.  Briefly, Freud had at first believed his patients' claims that they had been sexually abused in childhood.  This is the &quot;seduction theory&quot; of neurosis - that neuroses derive from actual physical abuse.  After a while, as these claims were made by more and more patients, he (rightly or wrongly) came to believe that they couldn't all be true, and developed the theory of the Oedipus complex - that we are all more or less neurotic, as a result of unavoidable psychological events that are part of everyone's early childhood.  Psychoanalysis at once became immeasurably more complex, less ambitious and more speculative.<br />When Jeffrey Masson, a former Sanskrit scholar who had trained as an analyst but whose instincts were those of a scholar, came across the story of how Freud had changed his mind, he immediately started to claim that this was pretty much the end of psychoanalysis.  Whether it is or not is up for the reader to decide.  What's most riveting about this book is Masson himself.<br />I don't want to say anything outright derogatory about Masson, as he has a taste for litigation - he sued Malcolm about the book, and carried the case on for 11 years until he eventually lost.  But he seems like the last person you'd want to involve in such a tricky practice as the healing of people's minds.  Malcolm lets him speak for himself, and he comes across in her portrayal of him as a really awful person - smug, arrogant, remarkably incurious and with almost no capacity for considering the feelings of other people.  Amazingly clever, to be sure; but how they ever let him train as an analyst is beyond me (he gave it up after hardly anyone referred him any patients.)  He admits to Malcolm that he has a short attention span; one of the most shocking - and to me, rather appalling - statements he makes is when he forcefully denies Malcolm's remark that nothing is intrinsically interesting, that we invest things with interest.  No, Masson insists, some things are objectively interesting and some are not, and psychoanalysis is one of the things that isn't.  Such is his sense of responsibility for the damage he'd done.<br />After a while, Masson's ruthless lack of curiosity, his urge to deny and denigrate (he once considered writing a book about what was wrong with various societies in the world, but fortunately for us he abandoned the idea) makes him appear as a kind of smooth, plausible angel of death.  And yet, his charm almost won Malcolm over - until he sued her.  The man is obviously very intelligent.  But what a way to use your gifts.	2000-11-21
US	50732707	RIWSYGU8OV8SF	0060930187	802369838	The Bell Jar: A Novel (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Plath's other great book (next to the poems)	&quot;The Bell Jar&quot; is many things.  When you read it in your teens, like I did many years ago, it's a survival manual on how to get through the idiocy and incomprehension of other people.  When you're a bit older, it's a harrowing and scoriating tale of mental breakdown, given extra edge by the public history of its author.  When you're a bit older still (I am now about the age that Plath was when she wrote it), it suddenly reveals itself as not just an artful novel but a frighteningly funny one as well.<br />Even Plath's best poetry has been criticised for occasional glibness, and I have to agree.  The sardonic drawl of parts of &quot;Lady Lazarus&quot;, for example, doesn't move me like I think it's supposed to - Plath not quite on form can sound like a more extreme, free-verse Dorothy Parker - and the jackboot rhythm of &quot;Daddy&quot; goes on a few stanzas too long, like one of John Lennon's more doggedly sincere creations.  Plath's most brilliant poetry has a pure surrealism, a mythological quality, light years from this obviousness.  <br />However, in &quot;The Bell Jar&quot;, her liking (and talent) for cracking black jokes is in perfect sync with her panic and her fear of emptiness.  This novel takes bitchiness to epic extremes - it's hyper-bitchy, it's suicidally bitchy.  The flat, pale tone is always rendering things with the painful vividness you get from the early stages of a migraine.  I laugh out loud at Buddy Willard's pathetic attempts at seduction (&quot;Esther, have you ever seen a man?&quot;), and I also hate him for not being more stylish, for being such a smug, humourless prig.  The fat medical student who smirks &quot;At least your mother loves you&quot; is a tiny, unforgettable, unforgivable cameo.<br />Esther on boys is whipcrack lethal, and this is both funny and part of her tragedy.  I'll never forget the &quot;bitter, hawk-nosed Southerner from Yale&quot; who comes on all weatherbeaten and streetwise and then writes her a letter saying &quot;he thought he might be really able to love me, I was so intelligent and cynical and yet had such a kind face, surprisingly like his older sister's&quot; - Esther's reaction is &quot;so I knew it was no use&quot; and she breaks off relations with him.  <br />The reason this book isn't your average memoir of a depressed girlhood is that Plath wasn't just the wannabe journalist that Esther (and dozens of imitators) have been, she was an exceptional poet.  The underlying sensibility is obsessive, mythological, not novelistic.  Plath/Esther has an incredible sensitivity to brute Things, but she doesn't relish them or get curious about them the way a Nabokov would - she experiences them as weapons directed against her.  New York at night is not a fun place full of happy people, but a lonely hell of &quot;tropical, stale heat&quot;.  The UN Secretariat building is not a place where people work but a &quot;weird, green, Martian honeycomb&quot;.  The feverish style of the first half of the book is stunned into calmness in the second half, when Esther is institutionalised and has had ECT; but it does its work in putting us right inside the spiked, angry cell of Esther's mind.<br />&quot;The Bell Jar&quot; is a one-off.  Plath's other fiction is trivial next to it.  It gets better on rereading.  I'll probably always turn to it sooner than the poems; for all her demons, Esther is good company, and her story is told with great truth and great artfulness.	2000-11-21
US	50732707	RAIB76RZXIMSF	0141180641	828207438	Hunger (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	5	45	46	N	N	I ate it up (tee hee)	&quot;Hunger&quot; is one of those books that most young men probably dream of writing, and which they occasionally manage to pull off.  The unnamed narrator stumbles about Christiania (now Oslo), a penniless man of letters, pawning his waistcoat (vest) for a kroner and a half, munching the odd bit of bread, but basically hovering in half-starvation and scheming about brilliant articles that he'll write which will not only enable him to buy food and pay the rent but which will also make his name as one of the best young writers of, etc. etc.<br />It probably sounds awful.  It isn't.  It's a masterpiece, if only because there's a curious gap between the experience and the telling of it.  The narrator is entirely without self-pity.  He never whinges - he curses, he daydreams, he fantasises, but he is always aware of his folly even when he's in the midst of it.  This is what gives the book its incredible readability.  Everything is portrayed in a crisp, early-morning light, everything is vividly _there_, there's no Holden Caulfield-type nostalgia or sentimental reverie.  (During the 1960s, it was made into an incredible film - remarkable for a book which is mostly interior monologue.)  <br />&quot;Hunger&quot; remains a classic not because it was influential or important in the history of the novel, but because it still seems so readable and so true.  Hamsun wrote some other books that I'm told are equally good, then declined into mistiness and didacticism, and ended up as a Nazi sympathiser.  No matter.  This was written in the late 1800s, and is still painfully fresh today, like a shaving cut.  <br />I assume this is Sverre Lyngstad's translation, since he wrote the introduction.  I first read the Robert Bly version, but Lyngstad is careful to point out that Bly made hundreds of errors, both great and small.  Lyngstad's will be the definitive English version for some time to come.	2000-11-16
US	50732707	R1FIJ6YBY7WQRF	0679720456	74955053	Psychotic Reactions and Carburetor Dung: The Work of a Legendary Critic: Rock'N'Roll as Literature and Literature as Rock 'N'Roll	Books	5	32	36	N	N	A dodgy selection of a great writer's work	Some people discover Charles Bukowski when they're 18.  With others it's Richard Bach, or Carlos Castaneda, or Scott Fitzgerald, or George Eliot.  With me, thank God, it was Lester Bangs.<br />This, however, was in 1988, when this book first appeared and Lester's kind of music was about as unpopular as you can imagine.  The late eighties were not really a time for howling guitars and yowling screech, unless you were buying import copies of Sonic Youth LPs for fifteen quid a time at the new Virgin Megastore on Aston Quay in Dublin, so reading that someone had charted this territory before, and had described it so well and preached it so fervently, was like discovering a cool older brother I hadn't known I'd had.  (Not that my existing older brother wasn't cool in his own way.)  <br />The main thing was not the music, however, so much as Lester's prose.  He was, and is, one of the funniest writers I have ever come across.  His fantasy about Lou Reed doing a version of &quot;Rigoletto&quot; set in a leather bar for Puerto Rican amputees made me cry with laughter, only a bit guiltily, and his surgical demolitions of an overblown Chicago album or a preposterous Bowie gig manage to combine great wit with a genuine, if subterranean, moral fervour.  His Bowie piece, &quot;Johnny Ray's Better Whirlpool&quot;, is for me up there with some of Swift's shorter works, as a bitterly amazed study of human folly.<br />He could do other things, too, of course; his hushed, radiantly attentive late essay about &quot;Astral Weeks&quot; almost (but not quite) persuades me that I like that album.  <br />While I agree with Greil Marcus that Bangs was, on balance, better about writing about things he had a problem with than about things he flat-out adored, I quibble with the selection of pieces.  Although I wouldn't wish for anything here to be omitted, I assume that it was only Marcus' pompous dread of trash that prompted him to reject something as hilariously sarcastic as &quot;How To BeA Rock Critic&quot; (reprinted in Jim DeRogatis' fine biography of Bangs) or reviews of heavy metal albums.  Bangs was one of the very few rock writers to find anything in heavy metal, and I would have liked to read him on Deep Purple or Black Sabbath, both of which he admired but which Marcus, we can confidently assume, finds repugnant.  <br />This is still a book I would give as a Christmas gift to any bright-eyed nephew of mine with a musical ear and a fondness for language.  Bangs may have led a shambles of a life, but he wrote like an angel, and if I no longer share much with him in the way of musical taste, I'll always admire the passionate intelligence with which he wrestled his likes and dislikes onto the page.  He's a model to all critics, not just rock writers.  <br />Now can we have some more?	2000-11-13
US	50732707	R3P4934G9FKXYS	0140284125	563009353	The Inimitable Jeeves	Books	3	15	18	N	N	A good laugh, but Plum could do better	This is a pretty early Jeeves &amp; Wooster (not, I think, the very first, as somebody says below) and it suffers a bit from being a rambling collection of episodes tied up with the absolute slimmest of attempts at an overall theme.  Broadly speaking, it deals with the repeated encounters between Bertie and the irrepressible Bingo Little, whose amorous misadventures make up most of the book.  There's a slight uncertainty about Bertie's diction; Wodehouse is too keen to emphasise Bertie's stupidity, which leads to a certain repetitiveness, and the book lacks the inspired lunatic poetry of later stories.  Still, it does contain the classic line about &quot;aunt calling to aunt like mastodons bellowing across the primeval swamp&quot;, and it's clearly a test-bed for many later ideas.  <br />But if you're a Wodehouse beginner, I'd direct you first to &quot;Joy in the Morning&quot; or the all-time classic &quot;The Code of the Woosters&quot;.  Wodehouse's genius wasn't just his sense of humour, it's his benignity; you can be a raging left-wing anarchist like me and still find his books a delight, because he has so few prejudices and is capable of being so funny about almost nothing at all.  He is amazingly lacking in malice.  His books are absolutely not a useful guide to Britain in the 20s, or for that matter Britain at any time - they obey their own internal laws, and you either get it or you don't.  That his career lasted from before Henry James' death to a time when Don DeLillo had already published three novels is something I find slightly appalling - but I'm still glad the books are there.	2000-11-13
US	50732707	RRRRJZDQDLIEQ	1878923021	961923065	The Trial of Gilles De Rais	Books	5	85	105	N	N	A lucid, intelligent book about a true monster	Georges Bataille's work varies wildly in quantity.  His early essays, collected in &quot;Visions of Excess&quot;, are interesting but by now rather amusing blood-and-thunder manifestoes, swirling with Nietzschean rhetoric, the kind of thing that makes certain young male academics feel the blood rising in their nads so that they'll write anguished tomes on postmodernism that no-one but their students will ever read.  His slightly later &quot;Literature and Evil&quot; is one of the silliest and shallowest books of litcrit ever inflicted on an undeserving public.  His novel &quot;Story of the Eye&quot; is insubstantial as literature and uninvolving as pornography.  This late work consists of a sober essay on the French nobleman Gilles de Rais and the documents from Gilles' trial in 1440.  I think it's the best book Bataille ever wrote.<br />Gilles de Rais was a genuine nutcase.  Born into great wealth, he was raised by his brutal and amoral great-grandfather and was a natural knight - i.e., he was violent, addicted to luxury and spectacle, and appeared not to give a toss about anyone.  He distinguished himself in battle alongside Joan of Arc, but when the wars were over, Gilles appears to found life a bit lacking in savour.  So, with the help of some of his entourage, he found a new way of spicing things up.  He would typically ride to the nearest village, select a handsome young person between the age of 8 and 20 (usually male, but female where no boys were available) and bring the child back to his castle to be tortured, raped and murdered.  He particularly liked to cut the body open and gaze on the insides.  Then he'd go to sleep and his associates would dispose of the body.<br />Nobody is quite sure how many children he killed this way, but the estimates run into hundreds.  The locals were scared because Gilles was a rich and powerful nobleman, Marshal of France, and the nobility tolerated the rumours for exactly the same reason.  The Bluebeard legend became attached to his name (in spite of the fact that it was much older than him) and he certainly lived up to it.<br />Bataille's analysis of Gilles' character is hard to argue with.  The Marshal of France was a vain, reckless, gullible, almost incredibly stupid young man - and yet the delirious extravagance of his crimes lends him a horrible grandeur.  Gilles very quickly got completely out of control.  The stories of his giggling at the dying bodies of his victims make him almost pathetic, as well as disgusting.  He was finally arrested when he gratuitously insulted the men of the last person willing to protect him.  He was tried for the murder of several children, found guilty and hanged.  His body was to be burned, but it was pulled out of the flames and buried not without honour.  He seems to have inspired a weird pity in people.<br />On the evidence of the trial documents, it's hard to doubt that Gilles was either mad or evil.  Yet he lacked the true psychopaths' instinct for self-preservation, and his repentance seems to have been as tearfully sincere as his crimes were remorseless.  Maybe he just had absolutely no imagination.  Either way, this is a rigorously truthful and forensic book about one of the most frightening people who ever lived, far above the level of the average true crime potboiler.  My only objection is Tom Dolan's cover design (at least in the Amok Books edition) - apparently a close-up photo of a bare torso with a nasty case of chickenpox, pointless and icky compared to the Grand Guignol within.  Richard Robinson's translation is admirable in style; not having read the original French, I can't vouch for its accuracy, but I see no reason to doubt it.ed to his name (in spite of the fact that it was much older than him) and he certainly lived up to it.<br />Bataille's analysis of Gilles' character is hard to argue with.  The Marshal of France was a vain, reckless, gullible, almost incredibly stupid young man - and yet the delirious extravagance of his crimes lends him a horrible grandeur.  Gilles very quickly got completely out of control.  The stories of his giggling at the dying bodies of his victims make him almost pathetic, as well as disgusting.  He was finally arrested when he gratuitously insulted the men of the last person willing to protect him.  He was tried for the murder of several children, found guilty and hanged.  His body was to be burned, but it was pulled out of the flames and buried not without honour.  He seems to have inspired a weird pity in people.  <br />On the evidence of the trial documents, it's hard to doubt that Gilles was either mad or evil.  Yet he lacked the true psychopaths' instinct for self-preservation, and his repentance seems to have been as tearfully sincere as his crimes were remorseless.  Maybe he just had absolutely no imagination.  Either way, this is a rigorously truthful and forensic book about one of the most frightening people who ever lived, far above the level of the average true crime potboiler.  My only objection is Tom Dolan's cover design (at least in the Amok Books edition) - apparently a close-up photo of a bare torso with a nasty case of chickenpox, pointless and icky compared to the Grand Guignol within.  Richard Robinson's translation is admirable in style; not having read the original French, I can't vouch for its accuracy, but I see no reason to doubt it.	2000-11-04
US	50732707	R1J708ESON8B1I	0679735755	577353274	U and I: A True Story	Books	4	30	33	N	N	I'm so glad I wasn't there	Nicholson Baker's semi-demented account of his Updike fascination begins from perhaps the slimmest premise a writer ever attempted to build a book upon.  He admits that he hasn't even read most, or even half of Updike's work all the way through, and yet he can't help measuring his achievement against Updike's.  Which, when you look at the imposing bulk of Updike's work against the handful of slender volumes that is Baker's, seems fair enough, at least if you think quantity is a virtue.<br />Yet Baker writes so well, not just about the nuances of his quasi-Oedipal relation to Updike, but about Stuff Generally, that we keep reading.  When he says that a particularly sarky remark of Samuel Johnson's &quot;merited a shout and a thigh slap&quot;, the economy of that phrases reassures us about his own talent; likewise his description of a hamburger as &quot;substantial, tiered, sweet and meaty&quot; makes you want to go out and chow down straight away.  This is not only about Updike - although it's very good on Updike - but chiefly about Baker, and his own determination to wring poetry out of the everyday.<br />Perhaps Baker's real direction, if the manic momentum of &quot;U and I&quot; is anything to go by, is more towards the torrential worry of a Thomas Bernhard than the Olympian repose of an Updike.  I only began to read Updike years after I'd read this book, and I find him a bit of a let-down.  But Baker has gone on to do some entertaining things with sex, some excellent essays and a kid's book.  He has demons far more volatile than Updike's; I think he should let them roam a little more freely.	2000-10-28
US	50732707	R13C6H5253317C	0140714723	43217624	Cymbeline (The Pelican Shakespeare)	Books	5	65	73	N	N	A late, loony, self- parodying masterpiece	&quot;Cymbeline&quot; is my favourite Shakespeare play.  It's also probably his loopiest.  It has three plots, managing to drag in a banishment, a murder, a wicked queen, a moment of almost sheer pornography, a full-on battle between the Romans and the British, a spunky heroine, her jealous but not-really-all-that-bad husband, some fantastic poetry and Jupiter himself descending out of heaven on an eagle to tell the husband to pull his finger out and get looking for his wife.  Finally, just when your head is spinning with all the cross-purposes and dangling resolutions, Shakespeare pulls it all together with shameless neatness and everybody lives happily ever after.  Except for the wicked queen, and her son, who had his head cut off in Act 4.<br />&quot;Cymbeline&quot; is, then, completely nuts, but it manages also to be very moving.  Quentin Tarantino once described his method as &quot;placing genre characters in real-life situations&quot; - Shakespeare pulls off the far more rewarding trick of placing realistic characters in genre situations.  Kicking off with one of the most brazen bits of expository dialogue he ever created, not even bothering to give the two lords who have to explain the back story an ounce of personality, Shakespeare quickly recovers full control and races through his long, complex and deeply implausible narrative at a headlong pace.  The play is outrageously theatrical, and yet intensely observed.  Imogen's reaction on reading her husband's false accusation of her infidelity is a riveting mixture of hurt and anger; she goes through as much tragedy as a Juliet, yet is less inclined to buckle and snap under the pressure.  When she wakes up next to a headless body that she believes to be her husband, her aria of grief is one of the finest WS ever wrote.  No less impressive is her plucky determination to get on with her life, rather than follow her hubby into the grave.<br />Posthumus, the hubby in question, is made of less attractive stuff, but when he comes to believe that Imogen is dead, as he ordered (this play is full of people getting things wrong and suffering for it), he rejects his earlier jealousy and starts to redeem himself a tad.  There's a vicious misogyny near the heart of this play, as Shakespeare biographer Park Honan observed, kept in balance by a hatred of violence against women.  The oafish prince Cloten, who lusts after Imogen, is a truly repellent piece of work, without even the intelligence of Iago or the horrified panic of Macbeth; his plan to kill Posthumus and rape Imogen before her husband's body is just about as squalid and vindictive as we expect of this louse, and when a long-lost son of the king (don't even _ask_) lops Cloten's head off, there are cheers all round.<br />Shakespeare sends himself up all through &quot;Cymbeline&quot;.  I wonder if the almost ludicrously informative opening exposition scene isn't a bit of a gag on his part, but when a tired and angry Posthumus breaks into rhyming couplets, then catches himself and observes &quot;You have put me into rhyme&quot;, we know that Shakespeare is having us on a little.  Likewise, the final scene, when all is resolved, goes totally over the top in its piling-on &quot;But-what-of-such-and-such?&quot; and &quot;My-Lord-I-forgot-to-mention&quot; moments.<br />Yet the moments of terror and pity are deep enough to make the jokiness feel truly earned.  When Imogen is laid to rest and her adoptive brothers recite &quot;Fear no more the heat o' the sun&quot; over her body, it's as affecting as any moment in the canon.  That she isn't actually dead, we don't find out until a few moments later, but it's still a great moment.<br />Playful, confusing, enigmatic, funny and shot through with a frightening darkness, this is another top job by the Stratford boy.  Well done.when he comes to believe that Imogen is dead, as he ordered (this play is full of people getting things wrong and suffering for it), he rejects his earlier jealousy and starts to redeem himself a tad.  There's a vicious misogyny near the heart of this play, as Shakespeare biographer Park Honan observed, kept in balance by a hatred of violence against women.  The oafish prince Cloten, who lusts after Imogen, is a truly repellent piece of work, without even the intelligence of Iago or the horrified panic of Macbeth; his plan to kill Posthumus and rape Imogen before her husband's body is just about as squalid and vindictive as we expect of this louse, and when a long-lost son of the king (don't even _ask_) lops Cloten's head off, there are cheers all round.<br />Shakespeare sends himself up all through &quot;Cymbeline&quot;.  I wonder if the almost ludicrously informative opening exposition scene isn't a bit of a gag on his part, but when a tired and angry Posthumus breaks into rhyming couplets, then catches himself and observes &quot;You have put me into rhyme&quot;, we know that Shakespeare is having us on a little.  Likewise, the final scene, when all is resolved, goes totally over the top in its piling-on &quot;But-what-of-such-and-such?&quot; and &quot;My-Lord-I-forgot-to-mention&quot; moments.  <br />Yet the moments of terror and pity are deep enough to make the jokiness feel truly earned.  When Imogen is laid to rest and her adoptive brothers recite &quot;Fear no more the heat o' the sun&quot; over her body, it's as affecting as any moment in the canon.  That she isn't actually dead, we don't find out until a few moments later, but it's still a great moment.<br />Playful, confusing, enigmatic, funny and shot through with a frightening darkness, this is another top job by the Stratford boy.  Well done.	2000-10-21
US	50732707	R1WS5AVFW6G6PD	019288087X	10925601	The Complete Poems (The Oxford Poets)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	&quot;Promising&quot; is the word	Keith Douglas was the greatest English poet of the Second World War, which admittedly isn't saying a hell of a lot, as there were few others who even came close.  It was that kind of war.  But Douglas was already precociously talented when he joined a cavalry regiment (the Sherwood Yeomanry) and wangled himself a post commanding a light tank in the Western Desert.<br />The war made Douglas as a poet, and also killed him.  He seems always to have had a premonition of early death; one of his most haunting poems is the much-anthologised &quot;Simplify Me When I'm Dead&quot;.  The title makes the point.  He survived some bitter fighting in Africa, and was killed, bizarrely enough, by a mortar shell in Normandy, which left no trace on his body.<br />Douglas' best poems, which frankly number around half a dozen, introduce a new note into English poetry that wouldn't be picked up until Sylvia Plath had a crack at it more than fifteen years later.  His mature tone is almost but not quite conversational, laconic, hardly bothering to rhyme, and yet eerily compressed and kaleidoscopic.  His is truly a poetry that strings a tightrope above an abyss.  Poems like &quot;Adams&quot;, the aforementioned &quot;Simplify Me When I'm Dead&quot;, &quot;How To Kill&quot; and the persistently unfinishable &quot;Bete Noire&quot; pack a charge that very few poets since have matched.  His last poem, &quot;On A Return From Egypt&quot;, seems to be a genuine premonition of his own death.<br />While Douglas only barely managed to write enough really good poems to be considered a major poet - which he is - it's hard not to think that, on the one hand, it's a tragedy that he didn't live longer and write more, and on the other hand that his entire work seems almost to have been planned to culminate in his death (he died at 24, a lot younger than Rimbaud.)<br />Douglas at his worst is mannered and romantic, but his best work is the flipside of that - terse, no-nonsense, energetic and deeply worrying.  He is missed, even if the curve of his development makes future work almost inconceivable.	2000-10-19
US	50732707	R25H7CLD0EIP97	0375706070	758404187	Ecology of Fear: Los Angeles and the Imagination of Disaster	Books	5	22	29	N	N	Don't believe the hype	I find the negative reactions to Mike Davis' book very interesting, since they're predicted by the very model of reactionary short-sightedness that Davis suggests is one of the reasons why LA has got itself into the state that it's in.<br />Davis' picture of a city in which the rich wield most of the power and the poor are regularly forgotten, marginalised and sacrificed to the needs of wealth is hardly a commie fantasy.  That's how you make big cities!  Face the facts, people!  It's been happening in my own city, Dublin, albeit on a smaller scale, for the last ten years.  I too lived in an under-maintenanced firetrap which ended up being burned out.  I too have witnessed the construction of mass housing with severely under-code safety features bolted on in the name of a quick profit.<br />I don't know about the chapters about wildlife; we don't have anything nearly as lethal as cougars and rattlesnakes in Ireland.  But, at the very least, the chapter on the role that LA plays in the cultural imagination as a sort of modern-day Sodom ripe for armageddon is worth the price of the whole book.<br />This is not, in the end, a book about LA in particular, although it's full of fascinating material.  It's about blindness, paranoia, greed and inhumanity.  As such, it's accurate about any First World city.  The one-star reviewers are simply behaving like some of the characters in this book.  (I wonder, sometimes, if non-Angelenos have any idea just what the rest of the world actually thinks about their city, and how weird and hallucinatorily awful we find it when we go there.)<br />According to the sources Davis cites, LA is due for a seriously major quake some time in the next quarter-century.  I don't wish that on anyone, but I do hope that people can take the hint.  In the meantime, the bad reaction is just the usual story - God forbid that anyone should suggest that the pursuit of the dollar is not the only value in the world.  Davis has a sense of the worth of human life that puts him miles above his critics.  This is a book that stops people like me from despairing entirely about America.n life that puts him miles above his critics.  This is a book that stops people like me from despairing entirely about America.	2000-10-04
US	50732707	R3DTVRSU94YJ98	0140420649	252528791	Collected Poems (French Edition)	Books	1	5	9	N	N	Avoid	It's a scandal that Penguin are keeping Oliver Bernard's lame translations in print.  His are the worst translations of Rimbaud that I've ever read - lazy, limp and boring, and Rimbaud in French is _never_ boring.  <br />If you want a more-or-less complete and faithful translation of Rimbaud, try the Wallace Fowlie edition. But don't waste your money on Bernard.	2000-09-28
US	50732707	R2QZB0BXXKNA7I	0192820281	916996744	The Defence (Twentieth Century Classics) (English and Russian Edition)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	An early gem	Out of print?  Out of print???  I assume that Vintage are waiting for the movie tie-in edition, or something.  It's in print in my country, anyway, under its proper title &quot;The Luzhin Defence&quot;.<br />This is, as Brian Boyd says in his excellent Nabokov biography, its author's first masterpiece.  I am an execrable chess player, but I know just about enough about the game (and am obsessive enough about various other things) to find its shambling, mumbling hero one of my favourite characters in the Nabokov oeuvre.  I've always liked Nabokov's less clubbable heroes - although I recognise that &quot;The Gift&quot; is a greater novel, I can get a bit tired of Fyodor's limitless resourcefulness and poise.  (I got impatient with &quot;Ada&quot; for much the same reason.)  The unsocial and inarticulate Luzhin is more my kind of character.  Surely John Turturro was born to play this character, even if the movie isn't that great.<br />John Updike, in his afterword, gets a bit sniffy about the meticulous patterning of the book, but I think he fails to appreciate the scope and grip of Luzhin's insanity.  This is one of the saddest books Nabokov ever wrote, but also one of the most openly compassionate.  Later on, there were more intricate and more skilful games being played with our need to (dodgy word coming) &quot;empathise&quot; with a central character, but &quot;The Luzhin Defence&quot; is still the first book Nabokov wrote that has the mark of the master.	2000-09-22
US	50732707	R2O4B1NMAKYAEA	0679723420	755867934	Pale Fire	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Beautiful, annoying, hilarious, sad	If I had to take one Nabokov novel to a desert island, it'd probably be &quot;Lolita&quot;, but that's daft, it's never going to happen; so after a few years' hemming and humming I concede defeat and admit that &quot;Pale Fire&quot; is VN's _other_ English-language out'n'out masterpiece.<br />I've always had a bit of a problem with &quot;Pale Fire&quot;, in that Nabokov's cunning is designed to make me be more interested in the demented Kinbote's delirious commentary than John Shade's measured, reasonable poem, whereas in practice I find Shade much more congenial company than his loony editor, and find myself skipping through the book on rereads for snatches of the poet in action.  But having just started it again for the, oh, fifth or sixth time, I confess that knowing Kinbote's quirks and secrets as well as I do, his goofy selfishness and insensitivity are truly hilarious.  (e.g.: I love the way that, in the Foreword, he can't mention his car without prefixing it with the defensive epithet &quot;powerful&quot; - perhaps VN was hinting here at a cod-Freudian relationship, Kinbote unconsciously imagining car as phallic substitute, I won't go on, but you get the idea.)  <br />Having also just reread Brian Boyd's mighty biography of Nabokov, I'm very attracted to the idea that Kinbote is Shade's invention.  It does make the book tie up with fantastic neatness - although it also takes a lot of the impact out of Shade's senseless death.  If Shade didn't really die, then the book isn't as subversively moving as it might have been - although, now that I think about it, it's moving in a rather more realistic and complicated way; damn these biographers and their privileged insight!<br />&quot;Pale Fire&quot; is both puzzle and lyric.  It zigzags wildly around the heavens while keeping its focus firmly on that frozen swamp in which Hazel Shade disappears.  Most of Nabokov's imitators copy the verbal exuberance, but fail to appreciate the beating heart.  His best books throbwith life as much as they crackle with wit and intelligence, and a book as clever and as lively as &quot;Pale Fire&quot; almost makes me want to forgive the author for condoning the bombing of North Vietnam.  Not quite, mind you.  There are limits.	2000-09-22
US	50732707	R21WT3DWE9VD8K	1901866319	356394870	Dreamtime (Revised & Expanded Edition)	Books	1	6	25	N	N	In which an intelligent man turns his brain off	John Moriarty, Irish philosopher and gardener, tries to restore a sense of Wonder and Mysticism by cobbling together a lot of scraps of world  mythology and gasping at the resulting junkpile.  <br />It's a sort of precis  to his multi-volume work of unrivalled gibber, &quot;Turtle Was Gone A Long  Time&quot;.  No, I don't think he means the turtle that the elephants that  support Discworld are standing on.  <br />This is the sort of thing that many  Irish people think ought to be our contribution to the world.  Sadly, I  don't think that Moriarty is bring the Irish people back to natural  religion, not when there are more immediate problems to deal with, such as  major urban drug abuse and racism.  This sort of spiritualistic burble is  all very well-meaning, but it functions as a verbal fog in which the  well-heeled can hide and reassure themselves that for all their investments  they're cultured people really.<br />Bah.  Humbug.	2000-09-03
US	50732707	R1HX6PA3GZ5G5V	0571171540	970449693	The Ern Malley Affair	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A great book about a fascinating poet who never existed	The Ern Malley affair is still something of an embarrassment to literate  Australians.  Ern Malley was the creation of two poets, James McAuley and  Harold Stewart, who wanted to show up what they regarded as the  insufferable pretensions of an Australian literary magazine called Angry  Penguins.  They concocted the fictitious Ern, gave him an irresistibly  romantic biography, wrote a dozen supposedly awful poems under his name,  and sent off the result.  To their glee, the editor Max Harris swallowed  the bait and published a special issue in Ern's memory.  Then the facts  came out, and avant-gardists all over Australia were made to look  stupid.<br />That would be it, except for the bewildering irony that the Ern  Malley poems aren't nearly as bad and incoherent as their authors  suggested.  Well, not all the time.  (Heyward helpfully reprints them as an  appendix so you can judge for yourself.)  They oscillate in the strangest  way between genius and gibberish; I have one highly-educated Aussie friend  who thinks that they're the most genuinely avant-garde poetry Australia has  ever produced, and Heyward is inclined to agree.  The Angry Penguin crowd  claimed as much, saying that the authors had surpassed themselves in their  attempt to turn off conscious control over their own work.  They certainly  contain some haunting, extraordinary lines (&quot;I am still / The black  swan of trespass on alien waters&quot;, &quot;I have split the infinitive.   Beyond is anything.&quot;)  The fact that these lines were never meant  seriously by their authors raises important questions about the usefulness  of discussing intention in matters of literary criticism.  <br />Heyward's  story is lucidly and wittily told.  There are no clear-cut villains and  heroes.  Max Harris comes across as appealingly open-minded and  imaginative, as well as gullible.  The hoaxers weren't cynical hacks but  talented and serious poets in their own right.  Amongst those taken in by  Ern was Australia's greatest modern painter, Sidney Nolan, who (perhaps  rightly) said that it didn't matter whether the poems were  &quot;authentic&quot; or not, so long as they worked on some level.  <br />A  remarkable book, not only in its picture of mid-century Australian cultural  history but also in the tricky questions it asks about sense vs. nonsense  in art and the motives behind cultural battles.	2000-08-27
US	50732707	R3FC6B07QF4XWA	0451524934	337991686	1984 (Signet Classics)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Orwell's last, grimmest, funniest book	I think I first read &quot;1984&quot; when I was about 10, twenty-odd years ago.  I still have my old copy of it, a now highly tatty and  heavily-taped-up Penguin edition.  I remember wondering if it would come  true in four years time and being a bit worried about it.<br />The thing about  &quot;1984&quot; is that it's such a weird bouillabaisse of critical  analysis, dystopian fantasy and Orwell's own personal obsessions.  All of  these things bounce off each other in the most tangled and confusing ways.  There's no doubt that many of the features of the book, such as the Two  Minutes Hate, have proved to be chillingly funny prophecies, when you  compare them to contemporary media phenomena such as the preposterous  reversal of Saddam Hussein's public image in the West when he made the big  mistake of invading a friendly country (from stern Friend of Democracy to  swarthy Satan in a matter of weeks, thanks to a lot of hard work by the  American press).  Newspeak, also, has a certain currency, when we think of  such phrases as &quot;friendly fire&quot; and &quot;precision  bombing&quot;.<br />But it has to be said that, if you're looking for a  clear and rational book about What, as Marvin Gaye would have said, is  Goin' On, then you have to conclude that Orwell's genius for fantasy  overrode his intelligence.  This book is suffused with Orwell's own  personal attitudes to a degree not often recognised.  The utter inability  of Winston Smith to find any real hope in the proles has been belied by the  persistence into the 21st century of popular dissent.  I'm talking about  things like the WTO riots and the use made of the internet (a technology  developed chiefly by the Pentagon, remember) as a tool for political  critique and activist organisation.  I'm even talking about the Romanian  revolution, in which one of the most downtrodden peoples in Europe rose up  and deposed - by which I mean, arrested and shot - one of the worst  dictators of the century.<br />Orwell's fatalistic sense of the _totality_ of  evil is what's bad about the book, if you're looking for clear answers and  good thoughts, but on the other hand, if you read the book not as a dire  warning but as a satire, it's what's _good_ about it.  The pompous lectures  of O'Brien read more like the ramblings of a Sade character than as an  authentic account of what it is to want power at the turn of these  centuries.  The evidence is that most of the really powerful and dangerous  people in the world are not like O'Brien, in that they aren't in it for the  dubious pleasure of &quot;stamping on the human face forever&quot;.  They're in it for money, sex and the thrill of feeling important.  This  makes them vulnerable.  This means they can be stopped.<br />The other thing  that we tend to notice about &quot;1984&quot; is the pervasive nostalgia of  the book.  Orwell was not just born in to the middle-class; one some pretty  deep level, and despite his truly heroic efforts to change, he was marked  by its values and attitudes to the end of his life, and while this gave him  great strength, it also narrowed and sharpened his imagination.  The points  of value in this book are the old notebook, the half-forgotten nursery  rhymes, the piece of coral in the ancient paperweight.  Nothing new is  good.  Things fall apart as soon as bought (the Victory cigarette).<br />This narrowness of imagination can seem to spoil the book, but _only_ as  long as we expect it to be some sort of honest effort to imagine life in  the future.  I sometimes wonder if Orwell meant people to take  &quot;1984&quot; as seriously as they do.  I think it's a brilliant, very  blackly comic fantasy, something Swift might have written if he'd lived to  see the concentration camps (and don't forget that Orwell wrote eloquently  and wittily about Swift; check out the essays and war broadcasts).<br />I'm  still glad I read it 20 years ago, and I still read it today.  As a book  about the importance of a life without dirt, bad cigarettes, horrible food  and awful TV, it can't be beat.  As a ground plan for Media Studies, it's  superb.  As a prophecy?  Hmmm.  No.  It's a satire.  Take it as gospel and  you'll be crushed under its wheels; take it as a dark joke, and you can  gain strength from it.	2000-08-12
US	50732707	R77TTNPLQJ5Y1	0684863472	381316770	A Heartbreaking Work Of Staggering Genius : A Memoir Based on a True Story	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Sheesh	I have a small library of books written by people about the deaths of their parents.  How very morbid of me, perhaps, and how very crass a way to  put it, but my dad died of some sort of  too-quickly-proliferating-to-be-positively-diagnosed-one-way-or-the-other  cancer when I was 26 and that was four years ago and I don't think I'm any  closer to making any sense of it.<br />Books like Dave Eggers' are a help,  though, especially as he had it a lot worse, with both his parents dying  within a few weeks of each other.  To complicate things, he finds himself  bringing up his younger brother.  In a dizzyingly offhand aside, he says  &quot;it was never really up for debate&quot;, the foregone casualness of  which goes a long way to explaining some of the rage and panic that bubbles  under the surface of this desperately cheerful book  (&quot;desperation&quot; and &quot;cheerfulness&quot; becoming complicated  concepts under the circumstances).  <br />It's totally understandable that  under the circumstances, Eggers devotes a good deal more space to his  relationship with his little brother, and to his own somewhat flailing  attempts to Have A Life, than to protracted meditation on the mourning  process, or some such carry-on.  (The book about the parent-shaped hole in  one's life has, as they say, been done, of course.  Paul Auster's &quot;The  Invention of Solitude&quot; does it in a cool, forensic manner; a more  recent venture is Paul Morley's excellent &quot;Nothing&quot;, which isn't  in print in the USA but should be - a grungy, low-rent exploration of the  whys and hows and whats behind Morley's father's suicide, which reads a bit  like Beckett if Beckett had grown up near Manchester in the 60s and 70s,  and which is in some ways an English counterpart to AHWOSG, even down to  the self-conscious book-ness of the whole project.)  I'm not at all  surprised that David Foster Wallace contributed to the back blurb - his  contribution reads like, and probably was, partof a letter to Eggers  himself and is very much in tune with Eggers' program as a writer, to try  and communicate as directly as possible without resorting to fakery,  sentimentality and violin-twiddling.  (Frank McCourt being the obvious  recent example of the writer who embraced all three things and made loads  of cash by doing so.  Eggers even has a discreet but unmistakable dig at  McCourt in his Acknowledgments, for which I cheer him.) <br />I don't really  understand the remark by the reviewer below who wanted to see how Eggers'  experience &quot;related to&quot; his own, which admittedly was comparable.   Nothing as bad as this has ever happened to me, yet although I would feel  entitled to sit on at least the perimeter of a bereaved persons' support  group, I don't want to.  I want to read some sort of truth, and Eggers'  struggle with language and communication is fully up to the struggles that  his story is about - the black hole of grief vs. the need for happiness,  responsibility vs. hedonism, life vs. death.  It's a remarkable book and I  didn't put it down.  Except to eat, sleep and visit the bathroom.  Truth at  all times, remember.	2000-08-10
US	50732707	R3AI4KYB7L7AZM	0684813785	681707236	The Making of the Atomic Bomb	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Definitive, important, as perfect as it gets	I'm not normally a voracious consumer of non-fiction.  Or at least I wasn't, until I read &quot;The Making of the Atomic Bomb&quot;.  I think I  read all 800 pages in about a week and have read it twice since.  It should  be bought in huge quantities by the UN and distributed to people  free.<br />Not only did Rhodes achieve wonders in synthesising the enormous  amount of research needed (from history to hard physics), he also manages  to tell this enormously long and complex story in what seems to me the most  appropriate way.  Some readers complain of the extensive backstory given to  many of the players in the bomb program, but this is all part of the effect  Rhodes wants to achieve (I think).  We gradually accelerate from  Rutherford's splitting of the atom to the Manhattan Project, and we  actually find ourselves getting caught up in the excitement of developing  the weapon.  We find ourselves rooting for Oppenheimer and his team.  The  description of the Trinity test has an almost unearthly beauty (because it  seemed to have such a thing at the time, to those involved).  We ride  aboard the &quot;Enola Gay&quot; and are impressed with the coolness of  Tibbets and his crew.  <br />Then Rhodes turns his attention to the effect of  the Hiroshima bomb, and I hesitate to call this artistry on his part,  because this is what we knew was coming all the way along.  It's worth  remembering that Little Boy, the bomb dropped on Hiroshima, was pretty puny  by today's standards, a mere tactical nuke at 12.5 kilotons.  Rhodes'  selection of eyewitness testimony is gut-wrenching and horrific.  On and on  it goes, descriptions of people with their skin hanging off in flaps, the  effects of radiation sickness, birds being vaporised in midair, people near  ground zero being reduced to charred bundles in a fraction of a second.   _This_ is what all the earnest and heroic scientific effort in the earlier  part of the book has led to.<br />And it's this, in the end, that is the great  virtue of the book.  Rhodes embarked on the herculean task of telling the  whole story of the atomic bomb, which entailed telling about what happened  when it was used.  In doing so, he manages to make history transcend the  mere recounting of facts (even though all he does is tell the story) - the  ultimate effect of the story is to force you to confront your own stance on  the bomb.  Surely nothing in the world is worth fighting for, if it entails  this kind of destruction and this kind of suffering.<br />The highest  compliment I can pay Richard Rhodes is that it's senseless to blandly  praise his skills as a historian when you've experienced the shattering  effect of this story.  This book is essential to anyone who wants to gain  any understanding of the worst century in human history - the twentieth.	2000-08-05
US	50732707	R16QI2AWR1D85C	0192851233	708171247	London After the Bomb: What a Nuclear Attack Really Means (Oxford Paperbacks)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Essential if you're concerned about nuclear proliferation	I picked up this small and unassuming volume in a secondhandbookshop in Dublin.  Written by a team of five research students in the early 80s, it details the likely consequences of a nuclear attack on London, based on conditions specified by a 1980 simulation carried out by the British government (Operation Square Leg).<br />The consequences are appalling.  Having grown up in the 80s, constantly aware of the late-Cold War nuclear standoff (and old enough and half-English enough to remember the British Home Office's notorious &quot;Protect and Survive&quot; handbook on what to do in the event of a nuclear holocaust), this book strikes very close to home for me.  As indeed it would for anyone else aware of the number of countries in the world with a nuclear arsenal.<br />The book clearly demonstrates that even with a relatively limited attack such as was assumed in Square Leg (five fairly low-yield bursts around the periphery of Greater London), the majority of the population of London would be dead within a few months - using 1977 census figures, that's 5 out of 7 million people! - and a great majority of the rest would suffer from a variety of radiation-related illnesses, mostly leukaemia.  The infrastructure (medical care, power, water, waste disposal) would be rendered useless, civil power would be in the hands of the military, food would be scarce to the point of unavailable, and there would not be enough hospital beds in the rest of Britain to cope with all the curable wounded.  <br />Now that the START II treaty has limited the nuclear capacity of the two major superpowers, and Britain's participation in the arms race has been cut down greatly from its mid-80s peak, the chance of a nuclear war between the US and Russia has been greatly reduced.  But this is still a vital book for anyone who still believes that even a tactical nuclear exchange would not escalate, and that a major nuclear exchange could possibly be in any way &quot;survivable&quot;.  Any exchangeof nuclear weapons threatens the survival of life on this planet.  It must never happen; the cost of such a thing is scrupulously accounted in this book.<br />Good look hunting down a copy, though.	2000-08-04
US	50732707	R3LKY6L6HMJ85D	0860911926	889586435	The Final Frontier: The Rise and Fall of the American Rocket State (Haymarket)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Brilliant effort in joining litcrit and history	Dale Carter's excellent &quot;The Final Frontier&quot; traces the history of the US space and aeronautics program from the end of the Second World  War onwards, using Thomas Pynchon's magnificent novel &quot;Gravity's  Rainbow&quot; as a jumping-off point.  <br />One of the reasons that  &quot;Gravity's Rainbow&quot; is such an extraordinary book is Pynchon's  remarkable insight into the links between what was to become during the 50s  and 60s the US military-industrial complex (exemplified in the book by  characters such as Clayton &quot;Bloody&quot; Chiclitz) and the Nazi rocket  programme.  Pynchon's historical imagination is more vivid and sensitive  than any other living American novelist, and GR is the book in which all  his gifts spectacularly coalesce.  Carter takes the ball and runs with it,  showing with admirable concision and clarity how US fears of global  subordination during the post-war period expressed themselves in both  popular culture (the sudden explosion in UFO sightings post-1947, the  amazing growth of science fiction, the baby boom and industrial slump) and  in government policy.  He carries the rise of what he calls the Rocket  State up until the Challenger disaster of 1986.  At the time, the loss of  the Challenger (and its token Ordinary-Person-as-Crewmember, the  schoolteacher Christa McAuliffe) provoked a resurgence in public support  for the space program.  But in the 14 years since then (and in the 12 since  this book was published), it's become fairly clear that the space program  has perhaps permanently lost its old appeal for the mass of the American  public.  Economic recession and domestic problems can no longer be brushed  aside with the promise of a new life in space (even Homer Simpson at his  lowest ebb dreamt of living under the sea, rather than on Mars.)<br />The  rocket may or may not be permanently tarnished, but Carter's book is an  excellent exposition of the factors that helped to reinforce and preserve  its appeal.  It's also one of the very few essential books about Pynchon's  novel, which tends to attract the attention of slow-witted  deconstructionists rather than clued-up materialist historians.<br />The only  tiny quibble I have is that Carter is apparently blind to one of the most  pervasive features of GR - its relentless sense of humour.  While it's true  that Pynchon analyses with great acuity the forces in industry and  government that converged on the rocket program, he does so with such  irrepressible mischief that the reader is left in severe doubt of what to  think.  But that's a subject for another book.  <br />The US space program has  stalled since the late 80s, plagued by cost-cutting and media neglect.   It's hard to see how Carter's book could be usefully revised when so little  of major significance has happened in the meantime, unless he were to turn  his attention to the new paranoia of alien abduction syndrome and its  putative links to advanced aviation technology (and if anyone could do it,  it's him - if he hasn't done it already).  But it's of great interest both  to Pynchon fans and those interested in linking up the forces at work in  post-war US history.  (Which, the US being as powerful as it is, includes  most of the rest of the world.)	2000-08-02
US	50732707	R1PDQMK1LGRJ8C	0465026567	296214142	Gdel, Escher, Bach: An Eternal Golden Braid	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Science, math, music, thought and some really bad jokes	I first tried to read GEB aged about 24.  I did stunningly badly at maths and science in school (failed Maths, Physics *and* Applied Maths) and had never taken an interest in that kind of thing - but I did like Bach, and  had just met my first computer geek friends.  It has to be said that for  the utter novice, Hofstadter is wonderful at making his subject matter seem  not just interesting but vital, accessible and beautiful.  He leads you  into the knotty topic of logic via some brilliantly conceived exercises,  and his explanations of how all this stuff knits together are dense but  totally clear.  If any book made me ashamed of not knowing more about  maths, logic, computer science and AI, and yet also enabled me to find out,  it's this one.  And for somebody who had always been allergic to such  topics, that has to be good.  It's truly an incredible feat of thought and  imagination.  <br />So why didn't I give it five stars?  Cause, in many ways,  I'm a small, mean-minded individual.  My quibble with Hofstadter - and I  *know* this is pathetic, given the kind of creative leap necessary to  conceive a volume like this one - is that his sense of humour, exemplified  in the, erm, humorous dialogues that punctuate the discursive chapters, is,  well, sort of, ponderous.  I'm well aware that he wanted to make the book  *show* what he meant as much as *say* it.  But I find the dialogues clever,  rather than genuinely funny or illuminating (Borges would have understood  that it's better to *describe* this kind of textual game-playing than  actually carry it out).  I'm not entirely convinced by some of Hofstadter's  theories about the nature of consciousness (particularly after having read  Andrew Hodges' wonderful biography of Alan Turing) and hence I find some of  his propositions about AI a bit dubious.<br />But what do I know?  I'm a lit  guy poking around the edge of a subject I know very little about.  The only  thing I feel qualified to speak out about loud and bold are the literary  qualities of the book.  There's an excess of cuteness.  I could've used  more salt.  (I also don't really buy Hofstadter's reasons in the preface to  the new edition about why he didn't bother to revise the text - surely a  few hundred footnotes would have been a great boon, but then I speak as a  lover of footnotes.)  <br />Don't let that put you off.  If you're a  professional scientist, philosopher or musician you *might* be  disappointed.  If you're none of these things, then this is probably the  ultimate popular science book of the past 30 years.  It deserves a place on  the coffee table of every thinking person.	2000-07-25
US	50732707	R2AB46PHTVBTO2	0192835319	569572839	Life of Johnson (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	42	44	N	N	The ultimate airport book	Ah, Ol' Sam, the Great Cham as somebody called him (it's an 18th century misreading of &quot;Khan&quot;, fact fans).  My opinion of Johnson the writer fluctuates over the years; sometimes he seems a long-winded  authoritarian, at other times his juggernaut sentences seem possessed of a  superhuman vitality.  Whatever.  This isn't Johnson the writer we're  concerned with, so much as Johnson the talker - the gruff, ridiculously  prejudiced, gloomy, scrofulous clubman, holding forth from the biggest  chair in the room, wisecracking, bullying, brooding and sulking.<br />Johnson was as lucky to have Boswell, as Boswell was to have Johnson.  The conversations of great men tend not to be much fun; Eckermann's  &quot;Conversations with Goethe&quot; is fascinating, all right, but  Goethe's mixture of gossipy cattiness and Olympian pomposity gets to you  after a while (Donald Barthelme wrote an evil parody of it).  With  Boswell's Johnson it's different.  He seems at once painfully real and a  caricature of himself.  Boswell captures both the readiness to pontificate  about anything under the sun and the panicky vulnerability.  Eckermann's  Goethe leaves the room when he's upset (nothing must ruffle the patrician  facade) but Boswell's Johnson stays in his chair - we can see his reaction.<br />Of course there are drawbacks, in that half of the book covers the last  ten or so years of Johnson's life, but there really isn't that much hard  evidence about Johnson's early life beyond what Boswell himself collected.  I reserve my doubts about Johnson's cultural politics, but the rolling,  rumbling figure that Boswell sets down is one of my favourite characters in  literature.  Swift has a darker and more perplexing fascination for me, but  you wouldn't have got the 44-year-old Swift out of bed at 3AM for a ramble.  He'd have hurled his bedpan at you.<br />Why is it a great airport book?  Because there's a lot of it, it's unfailingly entertaining and informative,  and it's guaranteed not to include a description of an air crash.s guaranteed not to include a description of an air crash.	2000-07-17
US	50732707	RXZBA1K4LQ184	0140432213	507902393	A Journey to the Western Islands Scotland	Books	4	17	18	N	N	A journey in stereo	An inspired combination - Johnson's celebrated travel book and Boswell's trial run at biography.  Johnson and Boswell toured the Highlands of Scotland in 1773, when Johnson was the undisputed capo di tutti capi of  English letters, and Johnson published his account of it two years later.   Boswell published his in 1785, the year after Johnson's death, as a flexing  of writerly muscles before taking on the enormous task of writing the  famous biography.  <br />The differences between the two books are manifold,  not just in style and tone.  Johnson is in his usual grave, polysyllabic  manner, inspecting the houses, the landscape and the people with the eye of  a moralist for whom pretty much everything reminds him of the hardship of  highland life.  Characteristically, after witnessing all this deprivation,  he finishes the book not by speculating on how it happened or what could be  done about it, but by musing that he thought he'd seen everything, but it's  a big world, right enough, etc.  Boswell is perkier, chattier, as anxious  to shine as ever and much more prone to repeat conversations.  Few things  are as funny as Boswell in full social-climbing effect.  <br />The real  difference, of course, is that Johnson is looking at the Western Isles, and  Boswell is looking at Johnson looking at the Western Isles.  This doesn't  prevent Johnson poking some deadpan fun at his companion, such as when he  relates how he slept in a barn wrapped in his coat, while Boswell (the  sissy) had to have _sheets_, for goodness' sake.  <br />The only problem with  this book is Peter Levi's self-regarding introduction and his deeply  irritating refusal to translate odd bits of Latin.  The Oxford University  Press had a much better-annotated joint edition of these two books out  years ago, but it seems to be out of print.  Pity.	2000-07-17
US	50732707	R3JY4KYWPW89OP	0553275976	678579754	The Bonfire of the Vanities	Books	1	26	78	N	N	Misconceived, badly written...why, Lord, oh why?	Tom Wolfe's reputation as a good writer is one of those things that escapes me, rather like the appeal of figure-skating and the music of Dean Friedman.  His fans claim him for a dazzlingly witty writer and an inventor  of a whole new style of journalism - which style seems to me to be a  pathological delusion that we are more interested in him than in what he  writes about.  His book on architecture is farcically shallow, and his  major contribution to 20th century prose style seems to be the introduction  of multiple exclamation marks to signify when he's being funny.<br />So, no, I  don't like him.  Skip to the last paragraph if you feel you've heard enough  of my opinion.  The Bonfire of the Vanities was a major publishing event,  as it was Wolfe's first venture into fiction; he had claimed for years that  contemporary fiction writers had abandoned the idea that fiction had  anything to say about the real world, ignoring the fact that a really  _good_ novel like Pynchon's &quot;Gravity's Rainbow&quot; is chock-full of  information about military technology, the complicity of America in  colluding with Nazi science (hiring the borderline war criminal Werner von  Braun to work on the space program, for example) and historical examples of  genocide.  Hence, he turned out this galumphing &quot;satire&quot; in which  a yuppie is prosecuted for knocking down a black man in his car.  Wow.   Like, daring.  Bret Easton Ellis' &quot;American Psycho&quot; was a far  more visceral registration of 80s greed than Wolfe had the nerve to dream  up.  The best thing about this book is that it gave rise to a very bad but  far more entertaining movie.<br />You may be interested to know that National  Alliance, an extreme right-wing group devoted to raising the consciousness  of the white race, list this book on their website as recommended reading,  along with &quot;The Turner Diaries&quot; and the works of Alfred  Rosenberg.  You can even buy it from their online bookshop (National  Vanguard Books).  I'm sure Mr. Wolfe would not be happy to learn this, but  if he were a better writer they wouldn't have found so much in his work to  admire.  Just thought it was worth pointing out.	2000-07-17
US	50732707	R3LF2WTG4CWJWL	0688158927	830457003	The Black Box: All-New Cockpit Voice Recorder Accounts Of In-flight Accidents	Books	3	12	17	N	N	Why do I have to give this book a star rating?	Having flown more in the last two and a half years than I ever did in my whole life previously, I've become an accustomed but nervous flyer, and I have to say that I find this book sort of...creepy.  Once you've picked it  up, it's next to impossible to put down, but you also wish you hadn't  picked it up in the first place.<br />For a start, those who want access (for  professional or other reasons) to cockpit voice recorder transcripts can  get them over the internet where they're available, and I'm sure there's  nothing in this book that isn't available elsewhere.  Plus, other reviewers  are correct in observing that NTSB transcripts are generally more accurate  and specific and less Edited than the ones in this book.  <br />Secondly, I  don't know if I like the idea of being charged money for this kind of  thing.  I wouldn't mind so much if the money were going to the survivors,  or the families of the dead, but isn't there something grisly and  voyeuristic about paying money to read what are more often than not the  last words of desperate men?  &quot;More often than not&quot; because most  of the accidents in this book involve fatalities.  It's the same kind of  gruesome curiosity that led to the notorious faked transcript of the  Challenger shuttle's last moments (the authentic transcript lasts up until  the point of the explosion; the detachment of the cabin from the rest of  the airframe would have cut the power to the CVR, so anything you've read  that purports to be from beyond that point is very likely inauthentic.)   <br />Having said all that, I'm not immune to the fascination exercised by  this stuff.  I have nothing but respect for the courage and skill of  airline crews.  It's just that for some reason, I wish this book had never  been published.  I think that a more appropriate tribute to the dead would  be higher standards of safety and maintenance.  Anyway, it's too late now;  but why do I feel sort of _soiled_ whenever I've been reading this stuff?	2000-06-21
US	50732707	R3I0DZ25E721MU	1859180426	960503366	Flann O'Brien: A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Post-Modernist (Poetry/literary Criticism)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A great book about a misunderstood writer	Keith Hopper's study of Flann O'Brien is one of the very few essential works of Irish lit crit to be published in the last twenty years.  Hopper's basic thesis is that O'Brien's most famous book, &quot;At  Swim-Two-Birds&quot;, is not his most brilliant and imaginative work.   &quot;At Swim&quot;, or &quot;AS2B&quot; as we O'Brien experts call it, is  really a half-hearted venture in late modernism, spoiled by the author's  diffidence, carelessness and sentimentality.  He reaches his full powers in  the savage black comedy &quot;An Beal Bocht&quot;, which unfortunately for  most people in the world was written in the Irish language, and the  thoroughly eerie tale of robbery and guilt &quot;The Third Policeman&quot;.   Hopper shows how the latter book is one of the first full-blown works of  postmodernism, a metafictional head-trip that prefigures Italo Calvino by  about thirty years.  <br />After the book was rejected a couple of times,  O'Brien shoved the MS into a drawer (it wasn't published until after his  death) and ended up frittering away his enormous talent in a decreasingly  entertaining newspaper column, throwing off a couple of lame novels before  his early death.  It's a sad story, and Hugh Kenner has convincingly argued  elsewhere that O'Brien himself was alarmed by the implications of &quot;The  Third Policeman&quot; and made a conscious decision not to publish it.  <br />Hopper's arguments about the status and significance of postmodernism in  Ireland are a sorely-needed counter to the generally blandly realistic mode  of fiction that has dominated Irish writing since Frank O'Connor got his  first big royalty cheque.  &quot;The Third Policeman&quot; is funnier,  scarier and more profoundly alarming than any of John Banville's jeux de  desespoirs (Banville always reads to me as though he's been translated from  the Czech, anyway).  An important and neglected book.  Irish culture could  be a lot more fun for everybody involved if Mr. Hopper had been listened  to.	2000-06-16
US	50732707	R34BTJXBCY20M4	1563892057	757601286	Sandman, The: The Kindly Ones - Book IX	Books	5	28	28	N	N	The climax of a masterpiece	I first came across the Sandman because a flatmate of mine had some collections of it; her name was Nuala (hi, Nuala) and she was quite proud of the fact that Nuala is a character in the saga.  Being generally  allergic to fantasy of any sort (I'm usually a sternly Realistic sort of  person) I picked up one of the books (I think it was &quot;A Game of  You&quot;) and was surprised to find myself quite enjoying it.  Little did  I know that I'd end up a total addict.  I've now read the whole series,  including both the Death spin-offs, and am somewhere at the back of the  queue of people who would like to shake Neil Gaiman by the hand and thank  him for repairing my battered faith in people's capacity for hope and  renewal.<br />Enough about me.  &quot;The Kindly Ones&quot; is the climax of  this vast saga about the imagination.  It's incredible that a story that  was basically written on the fly could be brought to such a grandly  symphonic and yet intensely moving end - even though it's not really an  end.  I mean, I write plays for a living, and wild horses with voluptuous  succubi on their backs couldn't persuade me to try and come up with a new  and brilliant episode per month.  And yet, Gaiman did it.<br />If you haven't  read the previous episodes it's not going to make a hell of a lot of sense,  but basically what we're talking about here is a story about a man who's  also a sort of god (Dream) and his realisation that he's not really able to  change.  The previous stories, written as the mood and the necessities of  the plot came to Gaiman, are brought together here with fantastic skill and  generosity.  It's funny (Lucifer plays cocktail piano in a bar in LA),  violent (a perfectly innocent minor character is burned to death for no  better reason than a Norse god's caprice) and immensely sad; the recurring  leitmotif is &quot;All good things must come to an end&quot;, and you can  sense that Gaiman is slowly and inexorably winding up this huge, sprawling,  vastly entertaining and wonderfully intelligent story.  And it's here, in  The Kindly Ones, that the Sandman comics achieve story-hood; so many other  comics glow and blaze and fade and disappear (or more frequently, fail to  disappear - why did Doom Patrol need to continue after Grant Morrison gave  it up?), but the Sandman is one of the few true modern epics.  I can't  think of a single &quot;serious&quot; novel published between 1989 and 2000  that aimed so high and hit so sure.  <br />I sympathise with a previous  reviewer who said that it came as close to making him cry as anything has  done in his adult life (well, I've cried since I've passed 18, but not over  a fiction.)  The fact that it was followed by the marvellously mellow,  bittersweet &quot;The Wake&quot; is an extra bonus.  Fantastic stuff.  It  got me reading comics again for the first time in ages.	2000-06-16
US	50732707	ROOR6DBA2AZC8	1582340374	61916228	the Book of Prefaces	Books	5	12	12	N	N	It was worth the wait, Mr. Gray	After a decade and a bit of footling around with pleasant but whimsical novels and the occasional killer short story, Alasdair Gray has finally delivered his long-promised anthology of English-language prefaces.  And  what a treasure it is.  Designed and presented with the author's  characteristic loving care, it's a mighty selection of beginnings-of-books  from Anglo-Saxon down to 1920 or so (more recent prefaces being excluded  because of copyright laws.)  <br />Besides the sheer wealth of Stuff To Read,  there are dense, canny and wonderfully sure-footed essays on the  progress-or-not of English culture'n'society courtesy of Mister Gray, plus  marginal glosses by a variety of highly intelligent people and also Roger  Scruton.  Scruton (England's dimmest philosopher) provides the gloss on the  preface to Burke's &quot;Reflections on the Revolution in France&quot;, and  offers up his customary brand of simple-minded conservatism, but it doesn't  matter because Gray has already neatly undercut him several dozen pages  earlier with his own reflections on the revolution.<br />A book to keep with  you for the rest of your life and leave to someone in your will.  There  haven't been many such in the past 50 years.  And while the errata slip  isn't quite exhaustive (there are a few typos that it fails to credit), how  can you resist it when it's written in rhyme?	2000-06-07
US	50732707	R4AV8KXNYCLAH	0198166567	764350212	Glenn Gould: The Performer in the Work: A Study in Performance Practice	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Brilliant and insightful	Kevin Bazzana has written a monograph on the work of Glenn Gould that manages to combine deep sympathy with Gould's ideas and performance practice with a critical attitude to Gould's more bizarre artistic choices.<br />He sets out his position early on, when he states that &quot;I do not  write book-length studies of artists I do not greatly admire&quot;.  There's no doubt that Bazzana knows Gould's recordings and writings as well  as anyone, and he's passionately enthusiastic about the more convincing  aspects of Gould's genius.  (I personally am a huge Gould fan as well, even  though I have, shall we say, a bone to pick with Gould's preference for  Petula Clark over The Beatles.)  A fair amount of the book is taken up with  fairly (but not too) technical analyses of Gould performances, pointing out  where Gould ignored score markings if he felt that they were irrelevant to  his own interpretation of the music, etc., but Bazzana also makes a good  case for Gould's decisions in this regard; when the music in question was  something that Gould actually admired, the practical results of his  theoretically questionable decisions are often hard to argue with.  When it  was something he didn't especially admire, such as the Mozart piano  sonatas, the results tend to make sense only in terms of Gould's aesthetic.  (On the enclosed CD, Bazzana includes the third movement from the C Major  sonata to prove his point; Gould takes it at a preposterously fast lick,  and while the result is frankly hilarious, making Mozart sound like  speeded-up cartoon music, it's not exactly what we imagine Mozart intended  the piece to mean.)<br />Bazzana is at his most critical about Gould's  writings, which he considers to be the work of a brilliant but  irresponsible amateur (bit of academic snobbery here, perhaps).  He tries  to defend them on the grounds that composers - and artists generally - are  entitled to have perverse likes and dislikes in order to bolster up their  own self-confidence (Wagner hated Brahms' work, and it was fairly mutual),  but you can tell that he wishes that Gould-the-writer had been a bit less  facetious and a bit more good-mannered.  It's a tough argument to answer,  but I quite like Gould's sillier flights of verbal fancy, even if I know in  my heart that they aren't on the same level as his recording of the  Contrapunctus XV from Art of the Fugue (to name but one example).<br />The  book is also very good about the relationship between creative and  interpretative artists in general.  In fact, it's a superb demonstration of  why Gould is much more than just a brilliant oddball.  Artists in any field  can learn a lot from it.  The free CD is not just a bonus but essential to  Bazzana's thesis.  A monograph on classical music for people who don't  normally like monographs on classical music.confidence (Wagner hated Brahms' work, and it was fairly mutual),  but you can tell that he wishes that Gould-the-writer had been a bit less  facetious and a bit more good-mannered.  It's a tough argument to answer,  but I quite like Gould's sillier flights of verbal fancy, even if I know in  my heart that they aren't on the same level as his recording of the  Contrapunctus XV from Art of the Fugue (to name but one example).<br />The  book is also very good about the relationship between creative and  interpretative artists in general.  In fact, it's a superb demonstration of  why Gould is much more than just a brilliant oddball.  Artists in any field  can learn a lot from it.  The free CD is not just a bonus but essential to  Bazzana's thesis.  A monograph on classical music for people who don't  normally like monographs on classical music.	2000-06-06
US	50732707	R152UTZ3A86DX	1563890348	168497267	Doom Patrol, Book 1: Crawling From the Wreckage	Books	5	56	58	N	N	Classic, classic, classic - now publish the whole run	Doom Patrol was the most brilliant, imaginative, innovative comic of the Eighties and early Nineties.  Much as I love the work of Frank Miller, Neil Gaiman, Alan Moore, the Hernandez Bros. and countless other major players,  Doom Patrol is the one I really hold to my heart.<br />Grant Morrison, a  Scotsman, took a fading rerun of a once-classic series and turned it  around, reinventing comics in the process.  He managed to arrange for the  previous writer to kill off the characters he didn't want to have to use,  so that he could introduce a whole bunch of new ones.  His most inspired  creations include Crazy Jane, cursed with a split personality but blessed  in that each personality had its own superpower (and Morrison didn't pull a  single punch when he traced the appalling history of sexual abuse that had  led to Jane's psychosis in the first place). He also brought us Danny the  Street, the Doom Patrol's roving HQ, a sentient street that happened to be  a transvestite.  Then there was the Brotherhood of Dada, an unlikely bunch  of supervillains in that they did hardly anything wrong apart from behaving  in a very silly manner indeed; their leader was Mr. Nobody, perhaps the  only cartoon supervillain who was drawn in a Cubist manner.  <br />This book  contains the first six or seven Doom Patrol stories that Morrison wrote,  and while they're extremely good, they don't quite catch the series at its  peak.  Richard Case, artist for most of the run, was still learning his  craft here, and his work is effective but not as good as he later became.   Later issues took wilder flights of graphic (in every sense of the word)  insanity than any other comic has attempted; the stories got sharper and  funnier and also more involving, the characters developed much further, and  the series as a whole built to a fantastic climax.  Then Morrison handed it  on to somebody else and the quality plummeted.<br />His recent work, such as  The Invisibles, is a bit too self-consciouslycounter-cultural for me.   (Although he did write a splendid one-off called &quot;Kill Your  Boyfriend&quot;, setting the Dionysus story amongst suburban English teen  delinquents.)  Doom Patrol was less thought-out, more improvisatory, and  far wilder and more liberating in spirit.  It's a scandal that the whole  Morrison run isn't available in book form.  I still lack a good dozen or so  issues of the comic.  Get thee indeed to the comic book store and seek them  out; Miller may have been harder, Gaiman may have been more literary, Moore  may have been more intellectual, but the Morrison &quot;Doom Patrol&quot;  was the wildest shooting star that comics have seen for decades.   Brilliant.	2000-05-30
US	50732707	R1P7GBJOITXCEW	156389453X	275915637	Kill Your Boyfriend	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Boy meets girl, boy and girl go totally mental	A lovely short story from Grant Morrison, the genius reinventor of Doom Patrol and the current chronicler of The Invisibles.  A sulky schoolgirl somewhere in suburban Britain meets a cheeky delinquent boy on the bus one  day, and before your jaw can drop they've gone on a killing spree, hooked  up with a bunch of anarcho-hippies on a bus, experimented wildly with their  respective sexualities and found themselves halway up Blackpool Tower with  a live grenade while the Police shout threats at them through a  bullhorn.<br />Love story, irresponsible celebration of violence and Dionysus  myth, this is a highly cheeky piece of work from the irrepressible Mr.  Morrison.  Always a man to take the phrase &quot;For Mature Readers&quot;  to the absolute limit, Morrison respects not a single taboo.  I forget who  the artist is and I'm not proud of having done so, as the art is  appropriately wacky and witty, as befitting the, well, Dionysian tone of  explosive release.  Great fun, even if you're glad it didn't happen to  anyone you know, and a slap in the face to boring journalists who claim  that British fiction is dead.  (Why don't those idiots read comics?)	2000-05-30
US	50732707	RCNTSS11EBGVU	0151003076	997856791	The Curious Sofa: A Pornographic Work by Ogdred Weary	Books	5	195	198	N	N	Sex and violence -  I think	A particularly miniature gem from a master miniaturist, The Curious Sofa tells of the delightfully open-minded Alice who, approached one day in the park while she's eating grapes, takes a taxi ride with a young gentleman  during which she does something that she's never done before.  The story  then proceeds to a country house, during which various upper-class folk  introduce Alice to a dizzying variety of fun, variously involving a French  maid, a Countess, a married couple who each have a wooden leg, numerous  &quot;exceptionally well-formed&quot; gentlemen and an enthusiastic Old  English sheepdog.  You don't actually see anything, thanks to Mr. Gorey's  discreet placing of trees, bushes,  clothed persons and screens between us  and the action, so fans of genuine porn can expect to be disappointed.  But  this is still a highly titillating book.  It climaxes, as it were, when the  whole party encounters the eponymous and somewhat sinister sofa, at which  point events get rather beyond Alice's control in a way that I'll leave to  your imagination.  <br />I don't know what kind of tea Mr. Gorey drinks but  I'd quite like to try some.  If you wanted to explain to somebody what the  word &quot;suggestive&quot; means, and were for some reason allergic to  dictionaries, you were best off lending them this book.  It's all good fun  until the last page - which I find extremely worrying.  And yet I'm afraid  that says more about me than it says about the book.	2000-05-29
US	50732707	R1C5CDPGLTWJ8U	0151003130	570891628	The Doubtful Guest	Books	4	75	79	N	N	American strangeness	I used to pick up my dad's Edward Gorey books when I was a wee boy, read them in half an hour and put them back on the shelves, quivering with fear.  Admittedly I was also scared of Doctor Who, old people and  &quot;Strawberry Fields Forever&quot;.  But Gorey has definitely tapped  into a seam of subterranean panic; his hollow-eyed pseudo-Edwardian  families have a look about them as though some sort of hideously deformed  ancestor has been chained up in the attic for centuries.  The Doubtful  Guest is ostensibly for kids, telling the story of a strange, aardvarkesque  creature in tennis shoes (typical Gorey touch, the tennis shoes) that comes  to stay one &quot;wild winter night&quot;, but maybe you have to be an  adult to find it truly unnerving.  The creature slopes about the house,  eating plates, lying in doorways and hiding towels, and the hapless family  can't bring itself to dispose of the thing.  At the end of the book it's  been there for seventeen years and is sitting in the drawing room with the  same look of wide-eyed expectancy, while the enervated family stands about  aimlessly with as little of a clue as ever.  <br />This isn't quite my  favourite Gorey.  Other contenders would be the almost absurdly depressing  The Hapless Child (small girl is born, parents die, is sent to workhouse,  winds up perishing in the street, is found by its  actually-not-dead-but-until-recently-in-Africa father who, typically, fails  to recognise his daughter) and the surreal The Object Lesson (classic Gorey  opening line: &quot;It was already Thursday, but his Lordship's artificial  limb could not be found...&quot;).   Or else there's the sexy but menacing  The Curious Sofa...<br />He's still a master and a true original.  Check out  the way that the house in The Doubtful Guest seems to have been invaded by  a black fog; Henry James took over a hundred pages to write The Turn of the  Screw, but Gorey can squeeze comparably effects into 26 pages.  Not many  &quot;children's&quot; books of 43 years ago still have this power to charm  and alarm.	2000-05-29
US	50732707	R1HY6UJBI47GMG	0231076347	937322389	Critical Models	Books	5	17	17	N	N	A good jumping-off point for neophyte Adorno readers	If you want to understand something about the nature of Adorno's overall project, read the guy below, sadly cut off as he is in mid-sentence.  If your only contact with Adorno is the bitter &quot;Minima Moralia&quot; or  the (to me) rebarbative &quot;Negative Dialectics&quot;, this is an  essential complement.  If you aren't interested in radical cultural  criticism...er, why are you reading this?<br />Critical Models is a collection  of essays, articles and radio talks, mostly from quite late in Adorno's  career.  I am neither a philosopher nor an academic, and would be the first  person to admit that I'm not quite up to Adorno's more Hegelian moments.   I'm just casting about for help in an increasingly bland, homogenised,  uncritical cultural environment, and the best thing about Critical Models  is that it's Adorno being unusually _helpful_.<br />This is Adorno throwing  himself into the task of trying to build a post-war democracy in Germany,  not Adorno the cantankerous emigre complaining that doors shut more  violently than they used to.  He urges the value of promoting the status of  teachers, of rooting out and criticising Nazi attitudes (who'd have thought  that they'd still be flourishing fifty years on).  Adorno is seldom a very  approachable writer, but here he's making the effort to communicate to a  mass audience, and to a relatively uneducated schmuck like me it's critical  dynamite.  The spine of my copy of Negative Dialectics may remain forever  uncreased, but this one will be carried around.	2000-05-25
US	50732707	RLFWOVENXHUPO	0521095816	999614898	The Concise Cambridge History of English Literature	Books	2	5	10	N	N	I hope they aren't still using this as a teaching aid	Confession: when I was a wee boy, I used Sampson's History as a sort of Rough Guide to Literature, mainly by virtue of its dizzying completeness.  If Sampson really read all this stuff - and we're talking about thousands  of writers from the Anglo-Saxons to 1941 - it's a wonder he ever had time  to write anything.<br />Although the book was written at a time when FR  Leavis was starting to shift into top gear, you wouldn't know it.  Sampson  is an almost perfect example of old-style, Quiller-Couchian, terminally  liberal-ideological blather.  Although he appears to be making judgments  about the writers he discusses, he's not really; he's just presenting them  all in the happiest possible light.  So Shakespeare is praised for his  human variety and largeness of temper, and Milton is praised for being sure  of himself and a strong critic.  Tennyson is good because he's so swoony  and mellifluous, Browning is good because he's so energetic and chatty.  And so on.  He only starts to bristle when the writing gets more  self-consciously Modern; Joyce is rapped for being funny without being  &quot;genial&quot;, Lawrence is damned because he was a good writer spoiled  by having so many ideas.  With women he's never less than a perfect  gentleman, although don't expect him to be elevating Aphra Behn to quite  the top of the tree.  Likewise with anyone Scottish, Irish, Welsh or  otherwise Colonial.<br />In general, Sampson has one rule: if it's famous it  must be good.  He's willing to write off the once enormously popular  Victorian poet Martin Farquhar Tupper (who lent his name to the main  character in the sitcom &quot;Dream On&quot;, trivia fans) because Tupper  is long since forgotten.  He lacks the nerve to write off recently dead  writers of comparable mediocrity, because they were still respected at the  time of writing.<br />Sampson's dogged adherence to sweetness and light  eventually cloud the reader's brain like a scented fog.  His energy was  formidable; his erudition is undeniable; his courage and intelligence are  featherweight.  If you ever wondered why literary criticism had to start  getting spiky and radical, here's the reason.<br />Don't get me wrong.  It's  quite a nice book to curl up with if you have a migraine.  But then, you're  probably better off flat on your back in a dark room.erudition is undeniable; his courage and intelligence are  featherweight.  If you ever wondered why literary criticism had to start  getting spiky and radical, here's the reason.  <br />Don't get me wrong.  It's  quite a nice book to curl up with if you have a migraine.  But then, you're  probably better off flat on your back in a dark room.	2000-05-25
US	50732707	R24NMDT1DJCGBZ	0674001575	478338373	The Passion of Michel Foucault	Books	4	47	58	N	N	A brilliant exercise in critical biography	The one time that Noam Chomsky met Michel Foucault, on a Dutch TV discussion programme in 1971, the discussion took some turns that Chomsky found disturbing.  Chomsky is a man who believes in freedom and justice,  and was perturbed to find the baldy Frenchman defending the right of  proletarians to engage in violent revolt against the ruling class.   &quot;One makes war to win, not because it's just,&quot; declared Foucault  in his best Class Enemy manner, and the linguist Chomsky found himself at a  loss for words.  He told James Miller that while he personally liked  Foucault, it was &quot;as if he was from a different species, or  something.&quot;<br />Now that the revolutionary fervour of the Seventies is  becoming little more than hearsay, most people seriously concerned with  injustice and freedom might well be inclined to side with Chomsky.  As  would I.  James Miller's book is an astonishing act of sympathetic inquiry,  in which he makes a persuasive case that many of Foucault's most  provocative ideas are arguably more significant when seen as outgrowths of  a highly singular spiritual project, rather than a rational process of  argumentation.  <br />Foucault didn't like the idea of biography, but since  his death we've had three - Didier Eribon's pedestrian life story, James  Macey's (which I haven't read) and Miller's.  I'm willing to bet that, even  with Macey's unseen, Miller's is the best book.  His Foucault is the  opposite of a detached intellectual; he's an almost shamanistic quasi-hero,  a voyager beyond the bounds of the ordinary, who when he's not campaigning  for better prison conditions is taking LSD in Death Valley and revelling in  the leather bars of San Francisco.  I personally find it hard to take many  of Foucault's ideas seriously, especially as Miller demonstrates that  there's occasionally an element of pose and display in Foucault's wackier  remarks, but this book certainly increases my respect for him, even if I  remain unconvinced.<br />Foucault has probably given rise to more dreary  would-be subversive po-mo drivel than any other French intellectual, with  the possible exception of Jacques Derrida, but he makes a great story.  No  doubt he made major contributions to certain fields of historiography and  Queer Theory.  &quot;Discipline and Punish&quot; is a brilliant, if  infuriatingly elliptical book.  Some essays, such as &quot;What is an  Author?&quot;, remain vital and suggestive.  The rest of it...I dunno.  But  Miller's book is a strong contribution to hauling his legacy out of the  academy and onto the street.	2000-05-25
US	50732707	R1QFZ7REXB2GWU	0571143059	563866042	Poems & Shorter Writings James Joyce-Csd	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Not perfect but still pretty good	Out of print in the USA, maybe, but not where I come from.  It's a minor scandal of the multinational Joyce industry that there is no decently comprehensive, fully annotated edition of Joyce's poems and early writings.   This volume contains most but not quite all of the poems, sometimes in  texts the correctness of which has been questioned, plus Joyce's early  prose Epiphanies, his turgid autobiographical essay &quot;A Portrait of the  Artist&quot; (_not_ to be confused with the novel of almost the same name)  and his curious prose work &quot;Giacomo Joyce&quot;, a half-sardonic,  half-bittersweet account of an affair he conducted in his thirties.   <br />Joyce wrote poetry on and off for most of his life, to the mild  embarrassment of his modernist friends who couldn't understand how such a  revolutionary prose writer could come out with such old-fashioned poems.   His early work is very much that of a young writer on a testing ground,  trying out the dominant fashions of the age and seeing how well they  fitted.  Much of his later poetry is comic - I have a friend who's  memorised the rollicking satirical broadside &quot;Gas from a Burner&quot;,  written after Dubliners had been rejected for the umpteenth time - but  there are some later lyrics which have appeal for more than just Joyce  fans.  (The short lyric &quot;Ecce Puer&quot; is his most famous poem, but  I also like the sombre &quot;Tilly&quot; which was displayed on Dublin  suburban trains for quite some time.)  His &quot;Epilogue to Ibsen's  Ghosts&quot; is one of the funniest and most acute of his late poems,  simultaneously critiquing, celebrating and providing a sequel to the play.   <br />The notes in this edition are very skimpy.  Far better annotated is  James Mays' Penguin edition of &quot;Poems and 'Exiles'&quot;, which  included Joyce's only surviving original play; but also omitting for  copyright reasons work included here.  You really wish that some good fairy  could put a stop to the Joycesquabbles and provide us with a reasonably  complete, more-or-less well-edited, properly annotated, uniform edition of  the works, but it ain't gonna happen.  In the meantime, the Penguin Joyce,  this and the Critical Writings are all the amateur completist are likely to  need.  Oh, and the Selected Letters, if you're interested in contractual  difficulties and the texture of Nora's underwear.	2000-05-24
US	50732707	R1LR5UX4OQO2NW	0811200744	145694082	Stephen Hero	Books	4	20	21	N	N	James Joyce Unplugged	Stephen Hero is part of the now-mostly-lost first draft of Joyce's first novel, A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man.  The legend goes that Joyce, in a moment of disillusionment, flung the manuscript on the fire and  his sister Eileen rescued it.  Odd, then, that the MS shows no apparent  signs of burnmarks.  Either way, the first few hundred pages are missing,  so what we have here is a fragment of what would probably have been a very  long and rather insufferable autobiographical novel about a clever young  man realising that he's too good for the society into which he's been  born.<br />The remarkable thing about it is that even though Joyce is  basically transcribing the events of his own life, he's impressively  objective.  Stephen Daedalus (it became &quot;Dedalus&quot; in the later  version) is presented as a bit of a prig, almost comically outraged when it  looks like he can't read out a speech to a college debating society, and  for all his erudition and genius a twit when it comes to getting his end  away with the luscious Emma Clery.  Joyce obviously realised this, because  when he rewrote the novel he made it not more objective but less so,  forcing us to see the events from Stephen's point of view, modifying his  method as Stephen grows from frightened boy to disdainful young man.   Stephen Hero is all told in the same cool third-person that Joyce used in  his early stories.  He abandoned it when he realised that it was quite  inappropriate for the book he really wanted to write.  <br />So what are the  virtues of Stephen Hero?  For one thing, it shows a lot more of the life  around Stephen; Joyce has a lot of fun recording the inane remarks of  Stephen's fellow students and the dimwitted inanity of the college  president.  The family is presented as less of a threat and more of a  slightly baffling background hum (Joyce seldom wrote as kindly about his  mother as he does here, even if he made her death one of the equivocal  emotional centres of Ulysses).  Stephen's artistic theories are  _explained_, rather than being _demonstrated_ as they are in A Portrait  (and while this is part of how much better a book A Portrait is, it's nice  to see them set down, as well.)  But in the end you have to admit that if  Joyce had published this as his first novel, he mightn't have had the  reputation he has today as being a man who published nothing but  masterpieces.  Dubliners is the best starting point if you've never read  Joyce before and want to see what the fuss is about.  Stephen Hero, on the  other hand, is no masterpiece, but it's perhaps the only book by James  Joyce that you could recommend to people going on a long train journey.	2000-05-24
US	50732707	R275FNOWTYWTBM	0801495873	292766539	The Critical Writings of James Joyce	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Joyce with the gloves off	Old but still worthy of respect, this is a collection of most of the works by James Joyce that could reasonably be described as Critical.  Here we see Joyce in many guises - youthful literary hack, angry old man protesting  against breach of copyright, and above all explainer of Irish and English  culture to the Italians.  The most fascinating pieces in the book are a  series of lectures Joyce gave in Italian on the subjects of Irish history,  James Clarence Mangan, William Blake and diverse other topics.  Those  who've attempted to claim Joyce as an apolitical webmaster or conservative  elitist (I'm talking to you, Roger Scruton) are in for a shock.  His  socialism and proto-post-colonialist sense of historical injustice are in  full display.  <br />These are, to be sure, the kind of thing you read not  because you're interested in the subjects under discussion (who, apart from  elderly Irish poets, cares about James Clarence Mangan?) but because you're  interested in what Joyce has to say about them.  All his criticism is of  the strategic rather than tactical kind, the kind of criticism certain  writers engage in so as to clear the ground for their own efforts.  He's no  John Updike, prepared to write 2000 words about anybody he happens to find  interesting.  <br />Apart from a vacuous introduction by Guy Davenport, this  is a fascinating book.  I'm sure it's far from complete, seeing as nobody  can even agree about where Joyce's books stop and his drafts begin, but  it'll do until time and decay simplify the picture.  Joyce is the great  pathfinder of modern Irish writing.  Hail to the Chief.	2000-05-24
US	50732707	R1RXEO06TMY32B	0140186476	167266492	Dubliners	Books	5	2	3	N	N	And to think he got even better later on	I've read Ulysses all the way through twice (bits of it over a dozen times), A Portrait three or four times, Finnegans Wake once, all the poems, most of the criticism, many of the letters...well, you get the idea.  Why  do I always forget about Dubliners?<br />I just reread it again, and once  again I marvel at the total assurance of the man's writing.  So many bits  to savour and shake your head at - the pathetic Farrington in  &quot;Counterparts&quot;, slipping out for his midday glass of beer; the  gold sovereign at the end of &quot;Two Gallants&quot;; the oblivious Maria  in &quot;Clay&quot;; the offhand bitterness of Lily, the maidservant in  &quot;The Dead&quot;.  (The film is a travesty, IMHO.)  And to think that  most of these stories were written by the time Joyce was 25!  It'd make you  spit, if they weren't such a gift to the reader.<br />This is certainly the  best edition for those who want background material.  Textually up to  snuff, lavishly but not needlessly annotated, and with an introduction by  one of the best academic critics in Ireland (Terence Brown is not the  illustrator but the editor; get with the programme, Amazon), it's one of  the very few Joyce editions that can be recommended without reservation.   (It restores Joyce's favoured hyphen for direct speech, rather than the  inverted commas that the original publisher insisted on.)  It's often  forgotten that the pervasive atmosphere of most of the stories is that of  stifled mean-mindedness; this book is largely populated with losers,  cadgers, snobs, bigots and the pathetically weak in spirit.  Only in  &quot;The Dead&quot; does Joyce relent and show some of the crack and  hospitality that most people (well, most foreigners) associate with  Ireland, and then he undercuts it by turning it into a tragic love story.   Ah, well.  <br />It all started here.  My favourite book of short stories  (close seconds being Flannery O'Connor's &quot;A Good Man is Hard to  Find&quot;, Donald Barthelme's &quot;Forty Stories&quot; and John Berger's  &quot;Pig Earth&quot;).  Modern Ireland starts to kick in the womb.   Fantastic.	2000-05-24
US	50732707	R25BZCIMEGADQJ	0571175821	894099991	Writing to the Moment: Selected Critical Essays, 1980-1995 (Faber Poetry)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	The best of a good critic	Tom Paulin is one of the better English-language poets working at the moment.  Wow, faint praise indeed.  Perhaps I should say that I'm a fan of his poetry for fairly irrational reasons; I like the snap and rustle of it,  although his recent work is in a slightly more mellifluous vein than his  snarling books of the mid-Eighties.  He's best known in the UK as a regular  panellist on a TV arts review show, when he can be relied upon to lay into  anything he doesn't like in his pleasantly whiny Belfast drawl.  (He  recently savaged Kingsley Amis' Letters (&quot;turgid&quot;) and described  Saul Bellow as a &quot;reactionary fool&quot;, which made me sit up and  cheer.)  <br />But he's also, as I say, a fine poet and, on paper, a  brilliant, take-no-prisoners critic (as well as being a Professor of  Poetry, if that means anything to you.)  His essays, selected here from  sixteen years' work, range from the wildly celebratory - he goes into  raptures about John Clare, and into orbit about Elizabeth Bishop's selected  letters - to the unanswerably damning, such as his classic exposure of  Conor Cruise O'Brien as being a shifty, self-serving closet Unionist.  (The  fact that O'Brien much later publicly aligned himself with the Unionists  only went to show how prescient Paulin can be.)<br />I personally think that  Paulin is too much involved with a certain canon of Eng Lit.  By no means  the usual suspects, however, as witnessed by his championing of such  relatively outre figures as Clare, the Ulster novelist George Birmingham  and the English poet Peter Reading; but still, there's something  sentimental about his evangelical love of anything vernacular.  He  certainly hasn't shouted very loud about the most remarkable efforts in  vernacular writing in the last 20 years - the poetry of Tom Leonard, the  fiction of James Kelman, the rise of rap, the 90s explosion of young UK and  Irish dramatists.  He should get out of the study a bit more.  Still, he's  a good man to have on your side, and he never kids himself that poetry  exists in isolation from the rest of the world.  That's an achievement in  itself.	2000-05-23
US	50732707	R2WKIGE8SGVQ6S	0385260326	287129497	The Trial of Socrates	Books	5	67	76	N	N	A brilliant book	I.F. Stone, one of the few honourable journalists in recent US history, wrote this book in his retirement as an attempt to answer a question that had dogged him for years: How could Athens, a genuine democracy, condemn a  man like Socrates to death?  I mean, this was Socrates, the first major  hero of western philosophy (if you don't count the pre-Socratics), the  master of dialectic, the hero of all those who value intellectual  independence, right?<br />Wrong.  Stone's initial puzzlement hardens into a  damaging case against Socrates.  He never defends the Athenians' decision  to execute him (because he finds it indefensible), but he produces a case  for the prosecution that's hard to answer.  If, like me, you'd always  vaguely considered Socrates to be a model upholder of free thought, free  speech and liberty in general, you're in for a shock.  Socrates' contempt  for democracy and the democratic process was all but a gauntlet thrown in  the Athenians' faces.  He claimed at his trial to be a gadfly, a reminder  of uncomfortable moral truths which the polis was inclined to forget, but  on the occasions when Athens was faced with tough moral decisions, Socrates  was nowhere to be seen, and had nothing to say.  His favourite disciple,  Alcibiades, was a right-wing thug.  He never ceased to praise the  totalitarian government of Sparta, and to heap contempt on the  participatory government of Athens (okay, women and slaves didn't have the  vote in Athens, but it would be a couple of thousand years before they got  it _anywhere_.)  He especially hated Pericles, one of the greatest  statesmen of all time, because Pericles was popular, and Socrates  hated  the power of popular opinion (he considered anybody who didn't have  philosophical training to be simply unworthy of having a say in how the  state ought to be organised.  He was, in short, the first great elitist of  western political theory.)<br />Stone shows how Socratic dialogues are  frequently weighted in Socrates' favour - the game is rigged.  Socrates is  constantly arguing with dimwitted yes-men who can't come up with the  obvious counter-arguments.  This is a sobering and a sweetly rigorous book;  for many years, Stone applied his intelligence to sorting out the manifold  lies from the grubby truth in American politics (he was no more a Communist  than John Milton) and it's a pleasure to see him apply that intelligence to  another great untouchable.  <br />For all the passages of wonderful poetry in  Plato, there are times when the Sage comes across as little more than a  more intelligent, toga-clad William F. Buckley.  Good for Stone, that he  told this story.	2000-05-23
US	50732707	R2IH6XS3V92TY	1559947586	823934486	Under Milk Wood	Books	3	1	6	N	N	Great fun, if unwittingly hilarious	This is the famous Caedmon recording of the first ever performance of Under Milk Wood, Dylan Thomas' most celebrated piece of drama.  It was recorded in New York in May 1953 with Thomas himself and an American cast,  whose brave attempts to master the Welsh accent are almost as entertaining  as the actual play. <br />Thomas fans would probably admit that while Under  Milk Wood is a fine old romp, full of wit and beady-eyed observation of  small-town life, it's not quite Thomas firing on all cylinders.  The whimsy  can be quite off-putting if you're not in the right mood, and there's no  doubt that it lacks the rage and tragedy of his finest poems.  <br />The cast  is also a problem.  These actors just can't sound Welsh, no matter how hard  they try, and some of the jokes go straight over the audience's collective  head.  (A cheeky gag about condoms is greeted with stony silence.)  Thomas'  own voice, for those who've never heard it before, is startlingly orotund  and English-sounding, the result of teenage elocution lessons.  But it's an  eerie thing to listen to, if you reflect that the poet was dead within six  months.  A good stocking-filler for literary uncles.	2000-05-21
US	50732707	R2NS49JTQIXWOZ	0140252622	347237369	The Barrytown Trilogy	Books	5	115	123	N	N	The least Oirish of Irish novelists	It may seem unlikely now, but when Roddy Doyle's The Commitments was first published in 1987 it was the first Irish novel in years that represented the way people actually spoke, actually drank, actually spent an evening  out, actually failed to have big sensitive inner issues trembling for  expressiveness and so on.  It was already a bit dated in its picture of the  bottom level of Irish music (bands wouldn't be heard dead playing soul back  then, they were all buying digital delay pedals and trying to sound like  U2) but nobody could deny that Doyle had the best ear in the country.   Well, actually they could, and did, but neither he nor his readership paid  any attention.  (Doyle is the only living &quot;literary&quot; writer in  Ireland to have a seriously major working-class readership.) In my opinion,  these books get better as you go along - though the film of The Snapper is  far superior to the other two.  Doyle got a lot of stick from Irish  reviewers for not showing working-class Dublin life as a vicious urban  hell, but his excuse was that it wasn't, not all the time anyway; the  fractious but ultimately loyal Rabbittes are representative.  (Interesting  that when he did show a darker version of this life - in the TV series  Family - he got attacked for being unrealistic.)  Doyle writes better  dialogue than any Irish novelist alive; I suspect he learned the value of  it from American realism, and from the theatre company (Passion Machine) he  used to write plays for, rather than from the previous generation of Irish  novelists.  His faithfulness to what the eye sees and the ear hears, as  opposed to what the tradition demands, marks him as a distinctly un-Irish  writer, even if his material is strictly here and now.  He's a new voice,  and thank God in these times of green and muddy Irish writing, an urban one  (believe me, reading these books is _not_ like being in a village pub).   All hail.  Mine's a short.	1999-12-08
US	50732707	R60K7Y68NVGIE	0553348973	579811820	Still Life with Woodpecker	Books	4	166	180	N	N	For use in emergencies	A friend of mine gave me this book years ago (it seems to be one of those books that friends give to people) and while it didn't exactly change my life there and then, it cheered me up no end.  I've tried and failed to  read some of Robbins' other books - perhaps this once is unusually tight  and brilliant, although it's still (as somebody says below) a &quot;ride to  the moon on a winebottle&quot;.  The bomb recipes and the analysis of the  iconography of the Camel packet are almost as good as the sex scenes, and  Robbins writes extremely well about how good sex can be.  (Glad to see that  women seem to agree about this.)  It was out of print in the UK for a long  time, and whenever I found a secondhand copy I'd buy it and give to people  I thought needed it.  I haven't read it in a long time, but I'd recommend  it as a perfect gift for a maiden aunt, a depressed teenager or anybody  whose talent for happiness hasn't been exercised lately.  There are books  out there that exercise the higher centres of the brain more than this one,  but fewer books are so mollifying to the glands.	1999-12-08
US	50732707	R3PXQS47MEO0WR	038548173X	546135954	Defending Pornography: Free Speech, Sex, and the Fight for Women's Rights	Books	4	24	28	N	N	Good book, but remember, it's written by a lawyer	Nadine Strossen's text is useful reading for anyone distressed by the tone of the most prominent anti-censorship activists - she points out the willingness of MacKinnon and Dworkin to ignore civil rights in favour of  passing the laws they want, shows how anti-censorship laws, when in place,  are not used to target heterosexual porn but gay and lesbian literature,  and generally deplores the image of women in the MacDworkin canon as  helpless children who need protecting by the benevolent laws of a (hang on,  patriarchal and sexist) government.  As an ACLU lawyer, she's been attacked  for defending pornographers, but she points out that the ACLU has also  defended the rights of anti-porn feminists to display inflammatory  material.  (A comical image: the ACLU defending people's right to say that  the ACLU are scum!)   She has a perhaps misty-eyed view of conditions in  the porn industry, but her argument that the consequences of censoring porn  vastly outweigh the value of doing so is, I think, unarguable.  (For  example, if porn were to be banned, it wouldn't stop being made; but  working conditions would be a hell of a lot worse, and the women who work  in it would lose all legal protection they have.)  A refreshing moment of  sanity in a debate that has mostly been characterised by insanity and  terror tactics on one side and incoherence on the other.  You still have a  right to free speech in the USA.  Don't waste your time trying to censor  porn when there are far more widespread and less glamorous problems that  women have to deal with every day.	1999-12-08
US	50732707	R3TFWWV9G078JL	0811201848	191401805	Illuminations (New Directions Paperbook, No. 56)	Books	5	33	35	N	N	Peerless	For me, modern poetry is Rimbaud.  Sometimes I think modern writing in general is Rimbaud, but usually only after a few drinks.  In any case, this is one of two books that are essential for anyone interested; Louise Varese  (wife of composer Edgard) was one of the first and is still the best  English translator that Rimbaud has ever had; her versions are as faithful  as possible, but have a swing and an energy (even in these prose poems)  that nobody else has reached.  A mighty book.	1999-12-08
US	50732707	R3I2SHWSWLLVKC	0140131558	71854538	The New York Trilogy: City of Glass; Ghosts; The Locked Room  (Contemporary American Fiction Series)	Books	5	15	19	N	N	American strangeness	There's a very weird moment near the beginning of The Locked Room, the last book in this short trilogy.  The narrator takes the manuscript of a missing friend's fiction to a literary editor he knows and calls back a few  days later to see what the editor thinks.  The editor says that while the  book is perfectly okay (typical bet-hedging), there's something mysterious  about it that he can't put his finger on, that he can't get the book out of  his mind, and so on.  Which is exactly what the perplexed reader has been  telling him or herself for the previous 200 pages.  They tell me that these  books use the model of detective fiction - apart from the middle book, you  could have fooled me.  The diction is like no thriller ever written;  Auster's style is utterly clean, clear and neutral, almost as if English  isn't his first language, yet when you gaze into the pool of his style it  shows you nothing but the reflection of your own face.  This book is so  clever that it should be boring and sterile, but it's not; it's filled with  panic, dread and the terror of loneliness.  (Beautifully pointed up when,  in the first book, the hero Quinn meets Paul Auster and his beautiful wife  and son; Auster has said that he wrote City of Glass as a sort of inverted  autobiography of what his life would have been like if he hadn't met his  current wife.)   Auster's more recent work occasionally lapses into an  irritatingly faux-naif style (he's one of the only serious writers I can  think of who'll use a sentence like &quot;Nothing would ever be the same  again&quot; without irony) but he's still got the same storytelling magic  he first exercised in the New York Trilogy.  A friend of mine calls him  Paul Austere.  I quite like the sound of that.	1999-12-08
US	50732707	R1B94YDABDJ7IR	0804219680	522702982	The Gospel According to "Peanuts"	Books	1	52	206	N	N	Wrong, wrong, wrong	Robert L. Short has written a few books ostensibly attempting to interpret Schulz's Peanuts cartoons as Christian parables (another title of his is &quot;The Parables of Peanuts&quot;).  What he really does is write short  Christian homilies and use cartoons (or more frequently, isolated frames  from a cartoon) to illustrate his points.  Whether or not Schulz himself is  a devout Christian, I couldn't say; I know he's spoken about his  churchgoing, but not having read his biography I can't say anything for  certain about his belief.  What I would suggest with some force is that  there is no Christian spirit in the Peanuts cartoons (I speak both as the  son of a preacher and as a big fan of Peanuts - I've got sixty-odd books of  them, more than I have by any other author.)  Peanuts is, if anything, a  kind of deadpan, sunlit hell, in which the characters never grow, never  change, never escape from childhood, suffer unimaginable fears (think of  Charlie Brown, always terrified of actually approaching the red-haired  girl), labour under never-dispelled illusions (think of Charlie again,  always believing he can kick the football; or Linus, who for all his  theological acumen still believes in the Great Pumpkin - surely Schulz's  most scathing comment on Christianity); they wreak appalling cruelties on  each other (Lucy and her fists, Violet and her sharp tongue, Snoopy and his  utter indifference to his owner), and generally remain locked into static  relationships.  This is not what most people think about Peanuts, but read  them often enough and you soon discern the chilly pedal-point beneath the  unassuming surface.  What three phrases are the most used in the strip?   &quot;Good grief!&quot;, &quot;AAUUGH!&quot; and &quot;I can't stand  it...&quot;   I recall one strip, in particular, set at a summer camp, in  which Charlie Brown helped an even shyer little boy to come out of his  shell and join in.  The other boy then went home, and Charlie was left  feeling proud of himself for having helped another.  The following strip  depicted the boy on the bus home, reflecting that that wasn't such a bad  camp after all, and thinking of all the friends he made: &quot;...and then  there was that round-headed kid...what was his name?&quot; Don't be put off  by the Hallmark cards and sanctimonious books like Mr. Short's.  There  ain't no redemption in Peanuts.  It's one of the great dark masterpieces of  American fiction, and the pious ramblings of a book like this only  trivialise it.	1999-12-08
US	50732707	R1Z3LJ9I0U901Q	0060904909	253711631	Arthur Rimbaud: Complete Works (Perennial Library)	Books	2	103	112	N	N	Beware!  Creative translator at work!	Highly unreliable.  Schmidt has produced some very good English-language poetry, but it ain't Rimbaud.  He conceals this by not printing the original on a facing page.  Worse yet, he prints the Illuminations as free  verse, when they were written as prose poems (on the rationale that the  prose poem isn't as successful a genre in English as it is in French.)  I  am sternly against this kind of translation, unless you're going to go all  the way and admit that what you're doing is a poem by Paul Schmidt  &quot;after&quot; Rimbaud.  But he doesn't.  Rimbaud newbies are directed  instead to Louise Varese's superb versions of Illuminations and A Season in  Hell; those who want a complete works should go for Wallace Fowlie's less  memorable but more faithful edition; total Rimbaud freaks should learn  French (and mortgage the house in order to be able to afford the  magnificent Pleiade edition of the originals).	1999-12-08
US	50732707	RRCA86D0PPRXQ	0140071105	634290992	1982 Janine (King Penguin)	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Wonders and terrors	1982 Janine is set in the consciousness of a middle-aged inspector of security systems, holed up in a small Scottish hotel with a bottle of whisky, trying to have sexual fantasies.  So far, so unpromising.  The  trouble is, his memories of his (far from satisfying) life keep getting in  the way.  And so the book continues, with Jock's baroque and  teeth-gratingly embarrassing fantasies (big-breasted women in leather  skirts, behaving badly) displaced more and more frequently by the shabby  and unflattering truth - Jock is aware that he is a small, not very brave  man who has spent his life making bad decision after bad decision.   Eventually he swallows a bottle of sleeping pills.  And that's not even the  third last chapter, so I'm not spoiling anything for you.   This is a  brilliant novel - Gray's style is (as ever) classical, measured and almost  pedantically correct, but it fits Jock as well as the three-piece suits  he's worn since his college days.  There are some barkingly insane  typographical maneuvres in the wake of the pill-swallowing episode, but  that's all just to set up what comes next.  The comedy is grim and the  sadness is awful, but there's real catharsis there for those who can  appreciate it.  My favourite of Gray's novels - leaner and tougher (if not  as wild and ambitious) than Lanark, and less whimsical than much of his  later work.  The paperback edition is completed with his now-characteristic  inclusion of snippets from the book's worst reviews.	1999-12-08
US	50732707	R1GOM6XA6OU70L	155583115X	165908668	Macho Sluts: Erotic Fiction	Books	5	58	64	N	N	A classic of bedtime reading	The trouble with what literary people like to call erotica and what the rest of us know as porn is that either it's terribly hifalutin and trails off into a row of dots just before it gets good, or else it's dismally  badly written.  The great virtue of Macho Sluts is that Pat Califia is,  apart from anything else, a damn good writer who doesn't  smear Vaseline on  the lens, as it were.  I'm not the only person to testify that you don't  have to be into S&amp;M, or a lesbian, or even a woman, to enjoy this book.   (Though if you can't imagine what it might like to be one or all of the  above, then you won't find it very rewarding - like the person below who  claimed that it was all sex scenes.  Well, duhh.)  The Calyx of Isis is one  of the most extraordinarily arousing things ever written; truly, the  hormones have reason, of which the stated sex on your birth certificate  knows nothing.  I wouldn't want to advise anybody not to read this book -  but please, with a title like Macho Sluts, you should at least have some  idea of what you're getting into.	1999-12-08
US	50732707	R1FNOJMQ06FUH	0679722920	453575878	Ratner's Star	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Far from DeLillo's best	Ratner's Star is one of those teasingly annoying cultural phenomena that arise when an artist you really like and admire does something you neither admire nor enjoy (other examples being most of John Lennon's solo stuff,  Umberto Eco's attempts at being funny, and Georges Perec's attempts at  being unfunny.)  It's about a teenage maths genius who goes to an enormous  convention where the finest minds available are trying to decipher what  they believe to messages from aliens.  The book is deliberately flat,  formal and non-naturalistic (confronted with a menacing pigeon, a terrified  minor character confesses that he can't run away because, as a child, he  never learned to run - &quot;I've always admired it in other people, this  marvellous ability to run.&quot;)  So okay, it's funny.  But there's a  feeling that DeLillo was running on empty.  His love of jargon and  technical languages is indulged to the absolute max, and the book works out  its jokes with remorseless mathematical precision.  The fear and violence  that keep his other books moored in reality aren't  as appropriate here,  and the reader's eyelids start to droop.  It does have one classic  one-liner: &quot;Cadillac.  The Rolls-Royce of Automobiles.&quot;	1999-12-03
US	50732707	R1K33TP3YCBMPS	0312141246	526570204	Frank Zappa: The Negative Dialectics of Poodle Play	Books	5	10	13	N	N	A smack in the face to lazy rock criticism	I read this book for no reason that is very clear to me anymore, since when I bought it I was neither a left-wing academic nor a Zappa fan.  I think the sheer obsessive folly of the whole thing got me hooked.  And in fact, quite apart from it's virtues as a treatise on philosophy (which,  among other things, it is) or a book about Zappa, it's one of the best  books ever written about rock music.  Watson's brilliant inspiration was to  try to bring together his dedicated left-wing politics and his love for the  vast and ungainly oeuvre of the decidedly non-left-wing Frank Zappa.  It's  a heroic attempt, and the amazing thing about it is that it's persuasive.   Zappa's hatred of religious fundamentalism, his dedication to music, his  humour, his indomitable determination to stick to his guns, his courage in  opposing repressive government policies, are what get Watson really  enthusiastic.  It's true that there's not all that much here about the  music qua music, although Watson considers Zappa to be an important  composer and the finest rock guitarist since Hendrix (and he's not far  wrong about either); but the minute attention to Zappa's lyrics produces  some of the most unlikely and brilliant literary criticism since William  Empson.  The section when he goes to visit the ailing Zappa in LA is  remarkable (Zappa seems to have generally approved of the book, and is a  gracious interviewee even when he claims that he can't stand Shakespeare.)   &quot;Preposterousness is an underrated quality&quot; claims the author in  a letter to Zappa's wife, and this book bears him out.  It also turned me  into a Zappa fan.  Now that has to be a good thing.	1999-12-02
US	50732707	R3TA2ETFQN3HW6	0140189300	964793034	Been Down So Long It Looks Like Up to Me (Penguin Twentieth-century Classics)	Books	4	44	47	N	N	Worth it	Okay, so it's got an introduction by Thomas Pynchon and it brings back a lot of memories for people-who-were-young-during-the-Sixties, but what about those of us who were &quot;unlucky&quot; enough to be born after that  halcyon decade crashed and burned?  Is the book really any good?  Yes.   Farina was, for my money, one of the best writers of his generation, even  though one novel and an out-of-print (but, if you can find it, surprisingly  good) collection of short pieces isn't much to go on.  Although the book is  actually set around the turn of the decade, 59-61 or so, there's an eerie  impression that it was written twenty years later.  For all the drink,  drugs and college high-jinks, Death, War and that other lost horseman of  the apocalypse, Responsibility, are never far away.  The main character,  Gnossos Pappadopolis, is a rucksack-wearin' hipster who attempts to  maintain his Cool in an atmosphere of student demos and faculty corruption.   Farina makes no attempt to sanctify Gnossos, and nor would we want him to,  yet we end up sympathising with him.  Pynchon's famous jacket quote says  that the book comes like &quot;the Hallelujah Chorus being played by 200  kazzo players with perfect pitch&quot; - make that Barber's Adagio being  played by a jug band and you're about right.	1999-12-02
US	50732707	R2FK0HOYO9WBFB	0140062866	220749293	Finnegans Wake: Centennial Edition	Books	5	25	27	N	N	Drivel?  Or not?  Only you can decide!	James Joyce's last novel, and incidentally the one his wife considered his best, is, as they say, unreadable, in that if you sit down and go through the book from cover to cover (as I have done) you'll only get the vaguest  idea of what was going on.  So if that's your idea of the all-time downer  reading experience then spend your money on something else, because this is  one of those books that is liable not only to change the way you look at  life, but the way you read and think.  Joyce called it a night book - the  &quot;action&quot;, such as there is any (and the action comprises pretty  much all of human history and civilisation) takes place while the  characters (a Dublin pub owner, his wife and family and sundry other  unsavoury types) are asleep.  But you'd never know that if I hadn't told  you, because the language is a punster's dream (literally), a braided and  twisted weave of most of the various tongues in the world, based on an idea  by the English language, all to be spoken with a fairly strong Irish  accent.  (Non-Irish people often don't notice this, but the rest of us can  hear it.)  It's not a book to while away a plane trip.  It's a book to  spend a few dollars on and then spend the rest of your life dipping in and  out of it for profit and pleasure.  Some of it is pretty straightforward,  such as the visit to the Willingdone museyroom or the episode about the  chicken scratching around in the rubbish heap (a lot more gripping than it  sounds), while other bits are maddeningly opaque.  But if they read novels  in heaven they probably read this one.  The best way to get the most out of  it is to have read every book ever written, but failing that, an open mind,  an active imagination, and a sensitivity to the buried layers of meaning in  words will get you through.  Frank Zappa fans ought to love it; this is  conceptual continuity with a vengeance.  (Wow.  I never thought the day  would come when I'd get to review a novel by James Joyce.)	1999-12-02
US	50732707	R3FHRA022I93UR	156478181X	618405348	At Swim-Two-Birds (Irish Literature)	Books	3	32	38	N	N	A good book, but not his best	At Swim-Two-Birds is the first great cult book of the century.  Well, maybe the second, after Ulysses.  Or possibly the fifth, after Kafka's novels.  Oh, never mind.  The author, Brian O'Nolan (to give him his real  name) wrote it in a fairly desultory manner, handing out bits to his  friends and asking them what they thought; he would often change it on  their suggestion, not always for the better (as comparisons with early  drafts show).  It gives the impression of being intricately structured  without actually being so, as I found when I adapted it for the stage.  In  fact, it's structurally a mess, with a hastily tacked-on sentimental ending  that was written after O'Nolan's father's unexpected death - the book is  always threatening to get really dark, and then fudges it in the wind-up..  The humour is side-splitting the first time round, but it gives diminishing  returns (believe me).  Far better is his second novel in English, The Third  Policeman, written without AS2B's pretensions to modernity and  avant-gardism, and, paradoxically, much more genuinely avant-garde.	1999-12-02
US	50732707	R1FGVCN0EJ9NIA	0704380668	611569588	Art, Class & Cleavage: A Quantulumcunque Concerning Materialistic Esthetics	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Dizzyingly brilliant	This is a kind of treatise on aesthetics, from the man who brought you &quot;Frank Zappa: the Negative Dialectics of Poodle Play&quot;.  Watson is about as far to the British left as you can get; it would be safe to say  that he probably doesn't think much of Tony Blair.  His book on Zappa made  him infamous among Zappa fans for being too, duh, political, and this book  is if anything even more stridently polemical in its attempt to change the  way we think about culture.  The really useful thing about it is that the  art Watson prizes as being exemplary is not (as you might think) dourly  socialist plays about the collapse of the revolution, but free improvised  music and  modernist poetry.  He seeks out the furiously atonal and the  densely elliptical as counterforces to the ubiquitous blandness and  mindlessness of modern music and literature.  He is contemptuous about the  mainstream culture heroes; Michael Nyman and Brian Eno, many people's idea  of avant-garde artists, get brushed off in a couple of sentences.  Watson's  ideal contemporary poet is JH Prynne, who after years of small-press  obscurity has only recently had a major collection brought out by a  mainstream publisher in the UK. (And amazing stuff it is too.)   I'm not  qualified to critique Watson's ideas, but there's food for difficult  thought here.	1999-12-02
US	50732707	RN0Q41YOAKFJ5	0375405569	327480505	King: A Street Story	Books	5	18	19	N	N	King is the word	King was published in the UK without John Berger's name on the cover.  You only found it on the copyright page and on the endpaper at the back.  This is a typically self-effacing move by a writer who is far more interested in  telling stories than promoting himself.  King takes us further into the  zones of the dispossessed than Berger has gone before, even in his stunning  trilogy Into Their Labours.  A bunch of people live on a patch of urban  wasteland; the narrator, King, is a dog who talks, or possibly a man who  behaves like (maybe even appears as, maybe even is) a dog.  They scrounge  what little money and comfort they can get, always keeping an eye out for  the authorities.  Berger has never ceased to write about the people most  writers neither know nor care about; his voice (or rather voices), his  authority and his compassion are unique.  And it's maybe the best book ever  written with a dog as narrator, too.	1999-11-26
US	50732707	RZA7Z480Z51RD	0140135154	828022040	Ways of Seeing: Based on the BBC Television Series (Penguin Books for Art)	Books	3	215	238	N	N	A classic that's becoming outdated	Ways of Seeing is the book of a groundbreaking and brilliant TV series that Berger created with Mike Dibb in the 1970s.  The book isn't quite as amazing as the series, but it's acquired canonical status anyway as  Berger's most frequently set text on art and art criticism.  Which is a  pity, because while the impressive confidence of Berger's judgments was  inspiring back then (Marina Warner and Michael Ondaatje have each paid  tribute to it), time has passed over the last quarter of a century and the  book is in danger of looking old-fashioned.  The theory of desire, which  Berger manages to popularise in a single succinct chapter, has been  challenged, confirmed, turned upside-down and generally elaborated upon so  much since the book was written that his version of it is now inadequate.   Advertising is vastly more sophisticated now than it was in 1972 - the ads  reproduced in the book, while perfectly representative of their time, are  almost laughable in their blatant sexism and classism.  (You wouldn't get  away with them now, that's for sure.)    But the account of the rise of oil  painting is still persuasive, even if it lacks the cheek and  mischievousness of the TV version.  Readers expecting to find Berger's most  incisive and complex criticism should look elsewhere, though, to The Sense  of Sight or About Looking, because Ways of Seeing is essentially a  popularisation of theories that have since become much more complex, and  Berger's lapidary, no-argument tone is hardly applicable anymore.  Somebody  should release the series on video, then we'd get the same ideas in a more  engaging and fascinating manner.	1999-11-26
US	50732707	R32FYWZWW1F2FT	1559361670	180391982	The Weir and Other Plays	Books	4	30	35	N	N	A great play	Annoyed though I am, as a young Irish playwright, to admit it, Conor McPherson's The Weir is the best Irish play of the Nineties.  It's sharply observed (I love the jostling for position that the men do in the presence  of the young woman), beautifully written - McPherson can make even ordering  a drink into a loaded moment - and it's a gift to actors.  His other work,  generally in monologue form, is in my opinion less successful, but that's  more due to the contradictory and frustrating nature of the form than the  line-to-line quality of the writing, which is never less than excellent.   Question is, how in the world does he make it look so easy?	1999-11-26
US	50732707	R770ISBNKOXI6	0865475083	608257057	But Beautiful: A Book About Jazz	Books	5	5	8	N	N	A great book even if you don't love jazz	I read But Beautiful the day that I bought it.  I loved it so much that I recommended it to a friend of mine who's a jazz critic and flautist.  The next time I met him I asked him what he thought, and he told me that he  didn't like it - that it was, quote, patronising. I have no idea what he  meant by this.  The only musician in the book whose work I knew at all is  Bud Powell, and the book is worth reading for that section alone; Dyer's  insights on what it's like to listen to the music are almost more  remarkable than his reconstructions of the musicians' lives.  The section  on Art Pepper has a grisly intensity, as Dyer wonders how such a small and  severely damaged personality could make such great music.  It could almost  turn a loud-guitars man like me into a jazz fan.	1999-11-26
US	50732707	R4ZN5EROFR4GJ	0140077022	981253911	White Noise (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	5	193	220	N	N	Best novel of the eighties?	White Noise was the first DeLillo I ever tried to read, a few years ago, and I was disappointed; I thought it was thin and heartless and clever-clever.  Then I got older, visited America for the first time and  read it again, and suddenly it seemed true, oh so true.  The book is full  of dark pleasures: the family's hilariously misinformed conversations about  everything under the sun; the now-classic episode of The Most Photographed  Barn in America (it's not especially beautiful or old, it's just been  photographed over and over again); the description of a cloud of poisonous  gas as an Airborne Toxic Event; the narrator's manically argumentative son  Heinrich; his daughter's mysterious utterance in her sleep of the magical  words &quot;Toyota Celica&quot;.  And much, much more. The crisp beauty of  DeLillo's writing can seem cold on first reading, but this is a function of  the eerie ambiguity of the book's tone; it's neither satirical nor  celebratory, it's just looking hard at these lives and the world around  them.  White Noise is, for my money, DeLillo's funniest book and his most  death-haunted; that he balances the ever-present fear of death with a (for  him) new compassion for his characters is maybe the most amazing thing  about it.  It gets better every time it's read, which is the mark of a  classic.	1999-11-26
US	50732707	R2A1L0W3B8ZZ4J	0936756683	924877533	Hannibal Lecter, My Father (Native Agents)	Books	5	15	30	N	N	Uncollected work of one of the real mavericks	Pity about the title, but then Kathy Acker wasn't a believer in good taste.  A handy, pocket-sized collection of some early and not-so-early work by the mistress of gut-level fiction-making.  Acker is the sort of the  writer that should be read first at 16, so that you can spend the rest of  your life trying to figure her out; she confuses, infuriates, perplexes and  then all of a sudden the writing seems to be in your bloodstream, like some  kind of benign virus.  This volume includes a chatty, intriguing and  delightfully self-deprecating interview with Semiotext(e) editor Sylvere  Lotringer - which is trippy enough in itself, as Lotringer, besides being a  real person, has appeared as a character in Acker's fiction.  She's  definitely not for the easily offended - but then, there are worse things  in life than being offended, such as the things that Acker writes about.	1999-11-26
