US	50734332	R37ASELOAEX1WN	0771099983	972456930	The Double Hook (New Canadian Library)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	An daring experimental novel of failure &amp; redemption.	I was dismayed by the negative reviews of Watson's fine experimental novel, The Double Hook (1959).  Most of them came from high school students who were required to read a book when they didn't really want to read  anything.  Clearly some students are being given this book prematurely in  Canada.  <br />For someone willing to give the book a chance, I have some  suggestions.  It concerns a frightened group of people living at the edge  of civilization, in British Columbian Cariboo country.  A former population  of Native Canadians has been displaced by settlers like them.  Each  character is haunted by the spectral presence of Coyote, a trickster figure  revered by the former natives.  Although Coyote is a symbolic presence, and  feared as a curse by the whites, he brings redemption because his  continuity means the destruction of native influence isn't complete, or  even possible.  That relates to the &quot;double hook&quot; of the  title--literally a hook that points two ways, so that &quot;you can't catch  the glory on a hook and hold on to it.  That if you hook twice the glory  you hook twice the fear&quot; (61, Kip's thoughts).  <br />The book is written  largely in dialogue without quotation marks.  Modern writers like Joyce and  Woolf experimented with varied presentations of fiction in the early 20th  century, and Watson is playing with these techniques.  Do not be dismayed  by them, though.  The book is presenting characters deeply fearful of what  is happening around them.  What they most fear is their ability to control  their own existence.  When Mrs. Potter dies, she becomes part of that fear  (like Mrs. Moore in Forster's A Passage to India, who becomes part of the  legends of the caves when she dies).  Fire ends the influence of Mrs.  Potter, and characters who have been alienated come into a better alignment  with each other.  Shrewdly, the narrator tells us, &quot;Coyote plotting to  catch the glory for himself is fooled and every day fools others&quot;  (61).  Finally, a new child born is named &quot;Felix&quot; (Latin for  &quot;fortunate&quot;).  Here Christian redemption in a newborn babe blends  with native beliefs, again hooking us doubly.  <br />Failure in this book  derives from an unwillingness to look at the alien and accept its presence  and importance.  When characters stop doing that, they create a place for  themselves in the most inhospitable locale Watson ever found herself (as a  teacher in the early 1930s).  The book reflects her mental struggle to  reconcile the bleakness of life in the Cariboo with her sense that the  remote locales of Canada matter as much as the sophisticated soirees of  Montréal and Toronto.<br />Finally, a book by William Faulkner--As I Lay  Dying--greatly influenced this book's characters and style.  Watson's book  makes a good deal more sense if you read Faulkner's book first, or at least  get a plot description of it.	2000-06-14
US	50734332	R25P61Z4VXXPFA	0060183136	546597960	Wouldn't It Be Nice: My Own Story	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Tragic genius.	It's sad how often the words &quot;tragic genius&quot; get mentioned in the same sentence.  Brian Wilson is Exhibit A for the term in the contemporary American pop music world.  This book is riveting, revealing in  ways even Wilson himself might not have been aware of.  The basic facts of  his life--the abusive father, drug use, sandbox in the bedroom, his firing  from the band, estrangement from family--were well known before the book's  publication in 1991.  But a good deal is added to the mix (including cruel  stories meant to make  enemies like Mike Love look bad).  I think the  moment that hit me the hardest was how employees in his house would walk  around him when he was comatose on the floor, merely calling it &quot;Brian  being Brian.&quot;  His stupor helped them exploit his position without  interference.  I was less interested in Landy's position in his life (the  psychiatrist turned album producer is up there with the hairdresser who did  the same thing in the 1970s) than in Wilson's revaluation of his career and  life.  The book is full of backgrounds on the songs that made the Beach  Boys famous, which fans of the music will appreciate.  This book sent me  back to the music itself, deepening my appreciation for it.  As a human  document, it pays tribute to Wilson as a survivor--few could have lived  through what he did.  No history of the 60s pop music era will be complete  without consulting this book.	2000-04-16
US	50734332	R11KOGZS1N3Q9S	0316290238	741461517	The Collector (Back Bay Books)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	&quot;Hell is other people.&quot;	Fowles's first novel got a lot of notice when it was published in 1963.  It still packs quite a punch, although two of his later novels (THE MAGUS and THE FRENCH LIEUTENANT'S WOMAN) are far more highly regarded.  Nevertheless, much of Fowles's sense of life is here in this smaller-scale  novel.  The tragedies of this book are quiet, private ones.  The  deliberately banal voice of the kidnapper balances against the frantic,  emotional voice of the victim in her diary.  Neither seems able to reach  out to others, and their limitations control them.  It's not hard to place  this book's existential themes (Fowles was always interested in  philosophy), but I've never shaken the statement he made about the title  character of this book--that the man isn't at fault or responsible for what  he does.  I think that lets him and far too many people like him off the  hook.  There are many more like him around now almost 40 years after the  book was published, and they won't take responsibility for the damage they  do to others.  If they're not responsible, who is?	2000-04-09
US	50734332	R1E09NPLW0UTHC	0719044723	798741164	Monsters in the Closet: Homosexuality and the Horror Film (Inside Popular Film)	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Gay horrors.	Benshoff examines &quot;the media representation of queer people,&quot; read through &quot;the homosexual implications of popular culture  artifacts.&quot;  The artifact here is the horror film, treated in five  chapters: 1) the 1930s era &quot;classical Hollywood film,&quot; typified  by the Karloff and Lugosi thrillers entangled in Production Code problems;  2) World War II era B-pictures, mainly from Universal and RKO Studios; 3)  the cold war era &quot;creature features&quot; and Ed Wood quickies,  influenced as much by Kinsey's sexology as by McCarthy's paranoia; 4) the  Stonewall era, where &quot;gay lib&quot; clashes with  &quot;homosexploitation&quot; in films like &quot;Theatre of Blood&quot;  (1973); 5) the postmodern era (set here as after 1975), when horror is more  upscale, overtly gay, and tied to AIDS themes and a slasher sensibility.   Benshoff's well-researched study identifies both homoerotic and homophobic  subtexts in films like &quot;The Creature from the Black Lagoon&quot;  (1954); he argues that low-budget pictures better convey the paradoxical  nature of forbidden sexualities than mainstream films do.  The coverage is  broad, with no film given more than a few pages of attention, and many no  more than a mention in passing.  Benshoff's focus is the political, social  and critical implications of an evolving genre of film.  This study  resembles two excellent ones with comparably broad coverage-Parker Tyler's  eccentric &quot;Screening the Sexes&quot; (1972) and Vito Russo's  nonacademic study, &quot;The Celluloid Closet&quot; (1981, rev. 1987)-but  is more up-to-date, theoretically oriented, and genre specific.  The 31  stills, bibliography and index all enhance the book.  Recommended to anyone  interested who is unintimidated by a little critical theory, Foucauldian or  otherwise.	2000-04-05
US	50734332	R2D6804IZ2E8X	0375405046	761338189	NoBrow: The Culture of Marketing - the Marketing of Culture	Books	3	17	20	N	N	Buzz is just the same old hype.	Seabrook offers a series of fresh observations of &quot;buzz&quot; culture in this book, including MTV from the inside, alternative band concerts (he describes his own drug use during one of them), profiles of George Lucas,  David Geffen, and a fourteen-year-old rock musician hyped as the next  Cobain (his CD and video failed).  Seabrook contends that there is no  difference between this culture and what was once considered  &quot;high&quot; culture, mainly because he likes the &quot;low&quot; stuff  and Tina Brown (then his editor at The New Yorker magazine) preferred it to  more &quot;serious&quot; subjects.  I enjoy pop culture too, but do not buy  the idea that cultural distinctions have collapsed.  Seabrook also equates  marketing with culture (it's the closing line of the book), which suggests  that advertising and the product it advertises are one and the same.   That's true of MTV, where the video exists to promote the album and the  cable network. But &quot;Puff Daddy&quot; is not going to displace Verdi's  Otello, or the novels of Ralph Ellison, any time soon.  In short, as good  as Seabrook's observations are, I question his analysis.  The best parts of  this book are the shrewd descriptions of the immiscible  cultures that  coexist in the same locale, such as a music superstore, or even Times  Square.  He had only to look more carefully at their failure to mix to  understand why Brown couldn't survive at The New Yorker, as well as why  that magazine changed from trendsetter to trend-follower under her  editorship.	2000-03-27
US	50734332	R3C9AECJEBT6ZH	0306808056	274712443	The Kindness Of Strangers: The Life Of Tennessee Williams	Books	4	45	46	N	N	A thorough life tour of &quot;10,&quot; but with a sour thesis.	Yes, Tennesee Williams signed some of his letters as &quot;10.&quot;  That's just one of the many things you'll learn from reading Spoto's 1985 biography of this famous American playwright.  More complete, thorough and  sympathetic biographies have been issued since this one, but Spoto's is  still worth reading.  It has the virtue of concision (it runs about 400  pages, which for a crowded life like Williams had isn't long), at least.  I  don't argue with Spoto's view that Williams lived a largely miserable life,  sank into rampant substance abuse, and hurt most of the people who cared  for him.  By the time he died, he couldn't get a good review for any new  play he wrote.  No one in the theater world liked him.  It took his death  for his career to start to recover, but at this point the late plays are  getting better-reviewed productions, and the scope of his entire  achievement (including his work in fiction and poetry) is finally being  assimilated.  From this distance, the only American playwright of the 20th  century who might be put into the same class is O'Neill.  I would vote for  Williams.  Anyone who reads this book will have to be willing to take  Spoto's unsympathetic reading of Williams's life.  At times he lectures the  dead subject of the book like a prim schoolmarm (he did the same in his  Hitchcock biography).  The book is still a gripping portrait of one of the  greatest, and saddest, literary giants America has produced.  I believe the  tragedy of his genius rivals Poe's.	2000-03-18
US	50734332	R2T79RCPTCRZTY	1880286084	203701368	Yes: Irises	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An echo we keep riding past.	This is a superb chapbook.  Even at 24 pages total, it is integrated in theme and image, full of well-chosen and ordered poems.  Some poems recall childhood memories of suburban Illinois (Villa Park, a town near Chicago):  the old Ovaltine factory, a DuPage county quarry, a local church.  Others  are more timeless, set in a nursing home or a backyard garden.  A sense of  disappointment, especially from memories of the &quot;familiar, an echo /  we keep riding past,&quot; is balanced by the truth and beauty (thank you  Keats) of nature, as well as the preservation of what is good about life.   These clipped, image-driven poems seem indebted both to haiku minimalism  and to the non sequitur style of Stevens. Perception of the beautiful  (hence the book's title, as if the author is searching for something to  redeem life and finally locates it in a flower) becomes a remedy for things  we lose or let go, like a baptism remembered in apostasy.  My favorite poem  here, &quot;November Chrysanthemums,&quot; is also a love poem:  &quot;For  you, there has never been a bud / not worth waiting for.&quot;  In  &quot;Mulching the Roses, we are told &quot;that even repetitive / things  can be exquisite.&quot;  As is this book.	2000-03-06
US	50734332	R1RCPH53EBCM0	055356997X	158444901	I, Asimov: A Memoir	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A book written from the author's deathbed.	Asimov finished this book shortly before he died in 1992--on a sad day for sf fans who admired him.  Of course his fame went much further than that, for Asimov was the foremost &quot;explainer&quot; of science in our time.   I admit a bias toward him since he was good enough to answer three letters  I wrote him at the tender age of twelve or so.  But I will not  sentimentalize him, nor claim great things for his fiction.  He was a  competent plotter and had good ideas.  No one reads his work for its  characterization or style.  Nevertheless, he has been praised by writers  John Gardner (author of Grendel) and Thomas Pynchon.  This book, published  two years after his death, gives a vivid impression of his last attitudes  about his life and those who were part of it.  He comes across as an  insecure workaholic who clung to the people he loved (his second wife and  his daughter), and surrounded himself with casual acquaintances to while  away the time with, especially with meals and speeches where he was the  center of attention.  His charisma is evident, but his continual references  to women being attractive (something he always did) gets old.  He was of  his generation, coming of age in the late thirties.  The sorrows of his  last years, especially due to friends dying, is palpable.  He is frank  about conflicts with his first wife (whom he was never happily married to)  and other writers.   The table of contents reads like a non-alphabetized  index--if you're looking for something specific about his output or life,  you can quickly scan to find it.  Recommended to those who already know and  like this author's work.	2000-02-13
US	50734332	R3JLI6OOWAZATY	055356997X	158444901	I, Asimov: A Memoir	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A book written from the author's deathbed.	Asimov finished this book shortly before he died in 1992--on a sad day for sf fans who admired him.  Of course his fame went much further than that, for Asimov was the foremost &quot;explainer&quot; of science in our time.   I admit a bias toward him since he was good enough to answer three letters  I wrote him at the tender age of twelve or so.  But I will not  sentimentalize him, nor claim great things for his fiction.  He was a  competent plotter and had good ideas.  No one reads his work for its  characterization or style.  Nevertheless, he has been praised by writers  John Gardner (author of Grendel) and Thomas Pynchon.  This book, published  two years after his death, gives a vivid impression of his last attitudes  about his life and those who were part of it.  He comes across as an  insecure workaholic who clung to the people he loved (his second wife and  his daughter), and surrounded himself with casual acquaintances to while  away the time with, especially with meals and speeches where he was the  center of attention.  His charisma is evident, but his continual references  to women being attractive (something he always did) gets old.  He was of  his generation, coming of age in the late thirties.  The sadness of his  last years, especially due to friends dying, is palpable.  He is frank  about conflicts with his first wife (whom he was never happily married to)  and other writers.   The table of contents reads like a non-alphabetized  index--if you're looking for something specific about his output or life,  you can quickly scan to find it.  Recommended to those who already know and  like this author's work.	2000-02-13
US	50734332	R1JUX2DWARBEN9	034542672X	981663600	The Rise and Fall of Gay Culture	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Wrong yet again.	According to a Newsweek article on 7 Feb. 2000, in the new novel by Saul Bellow based on the life of Allan Bloom, it is revealed that Bloom was gay  and died of complications of HIV disease.  So my earlier comment here that  Harris was the Allan Bloom of gay life (a comment Harris took exception to)  should read:  &quot;Allan Bloom is the Allan Bloom of gay life.&quot;  My  comparison was attempting to get at a hectoring tone and an idiosyncratic  viewpoint I felt in both writers.  Bloom, however, was a Platonist through  and through, and Harris is a relativist who follows no party line other  than his own.  For that reason, he deserves to be read even when he's most  vexing.  I had to rethink a number of things I care about because of  Harris, for which I thank him.	2000-02-07
US	50734332	R25NQ7J7WK1BM4	0312007094	277064182	The Year's Best Science Fiction: Fourth Annual Collection	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Dozois gives sf readers a lot for their money &amp; time.	Dozois's fourth massive 80s anthology of current sf culled 27 genre stories out of the hundreds published in 1986 to reprint here. Dozois always locates stories that represent the current trends of the field.  Cyberpunk was at its greatest influence then, and those writers (e.g.,  William Gibson, Walter Jon Williams) are well represented.  Two award  winners he reprinted are Greg Bear's &quot;Tangents&quot; and Lucius  Shepard's long, intense &quot;R &amp; R.&quot;  The three I liked best are  these: Tanith Lee's &quot;Into Gold,&quot; a clever take on the Arthur  legend set at the end of Rome's influence; Kim Stanley Robinson's  &quot;Down and Out in the Year 2000,&quot; an ironic study of street life  in a decaying Washington, DC; and Connie Willis's &quot;Chance,&quot; about  a married woman's romance with a man who has died.  All three stories were  first published in ASIMOV'S, which has dominated much of the American sf  short story scene in the last 20 years.	2000-02-07
US	50734332	R3LE4LNPDFG2A9	0807122777	370350079	Easter Weekend (Voices of the South)	Books	5	0	5	N	N	Huh?	This comments on the previous review.  The title character whose name this reader has forgotten is unforgettable.  Excuse me, did I miss something?	2000-01-29
US	50734332	R1TS3FSD6MYUM1	0312944845	837275066	The Year's Best Science Fiction: Second Annual Collection	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Dozois knows the current sf short fiction scene.	The second of the massive sf annuals Bluejay/St. Martin's put out was issued in 1985, and covers 1984.  Dozois meant this series to be definitive, and he does offer a great deal in it.  First there's his  summation for the year, with comments about the publishing industry, a  report on the magazines, briefs on the year's novels, collections and  anthologies, films, awards and obits.  Then we have 26 stories from  magazines and original anthologies.  The appendix lists five pages of other  stories that Dozois thought notable. Dozois prefers longer stories, so  getting through a volume of his is a long haul.  He sometimes chooses  stories that later win awards, the best of which here is John Varley's  &quot;Press Enter,&quot; a terrifying story about computers that becomes  more prophetic each year. Octavia E. Butler's &quot;Bloodchild&quot; also  won awards, but it disturbed me (I like other stories by her). One superb  story here is Richard Cowper's &quot;A Message to the King of  Brobdingnag,&quot; which takes a routine scientific experiment gone wildly  wrong to its logical conclusion.  Other stories I liked in this edition  include: Kim Stanley Robinson's &quot;The Lucky Strike,&quot; an alternate  history of a bomber pilot who refuses to release nuclear weapons over WWII  Japan; Gene Wolfe's &quot;The Map,&quot; a touching fable set in the  earth's far, declining future; and Rena Yount's &quot;Pursuit of  Excellence,&quot; about how far an obsessed mother will go to make sure  that her unborn child has superior genes.  Most of the other stories are  worth reading, and no doubt each reader will prefer different stories.  I  sometimes like shortlisted (or nonlisted) stories to the ones he  anthologizes.  It's a shame this book is out of print, but dealers or  search services can produce a copy of this book.  All of Dozois's annual  anthologies are worth having.	2000-01-08
US	50734332	R21R0LDHV0182T	0312944861	476504943	The Year's Best Science Fiction: Third Annual Collection	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Dozois finds good sf stories for his readers.	Dozois's third Bluejay annual (1986, for 1985 work) follows the same format as his second.  You can read no other sf-related book in a given year and still have a very good idea of what is happening in the current sf  scene.  Dozois believes that short fiction is the heart of the genre; it  takes as much originality to execute an effective story as it does a genre  novel, which generally spins out an equivalent concept at greater length.   Moreover, the concentation of the short form forces writers into a concise  presentation of their material.  In an age of elephantine media-based novel  series, that's a pleasure.  This anthology picks up 24 stories, several of  them long.  I most liked Karen Joy Fowler's &quot;The Lake Was Full of  Artificial Things,&quot; a haunting meditation on Vietnam in which a woman  interacts with a virtual version of a man she knew who died in the war.   Another very good story included here, which won an award, is Frederik  Pohl's &quot;Fermi and Frost,&quot; a less satiric than usual portrait of  surviving beyond armageddon.  Additional stories I liked here include  Robert Silverberg's long &quot;Sailing to Byzantium,&quot; another  award-winner in which Byzantium turns out not what it seems to be; Kim  Stanley Robinson's &quot;Green Mars,&quot; which became the basis for his  Mars trilogy; S. C. Sykes's &quot;Rockabye Baby,&quot; a moving story about  a severely injured man who enters an experimental program to regenerate his  body; and Lucius Shepard's &quot;A Spanish Lesson,&quot; a picaresque mood  piece about an expatriate American in Europe who finally confronts his own  shallowness.  Two other award winners reprinted are Nancy Springer's  &quot;Out of All Them Bright Stars&quot; and James Blaylock's &quot;Paper  Dragons.&quot;  One of the tensions in genre fiction of this period was the  conflict between the cyberpunkers and the rest of the writers.  Robinson  was accused of being a fuddy-duddy for not joining the punker bandwagon.  I  think he had the last laugh.	2000-01-08
US	50734332	R3484HQGWYFNAL	0525167153	147847010	Nine and a Half Weeks	Books	4	21	25	N	N	The original fatal attraction.	This book was published and reviewed as nonfiction in 1978, though it was written anonymously (by &quot;an executive for a large corporation in New York,&quot; according to the book flap).  It was reissued as a novel when  the film adaptation came out.  Whether the events recounted happened or  not, it has the power and impact of truth in it.  A woman becomes involved  with a man who keeps taking her deeper into S&amp;M bondage and  humiliation, to the point that she has a breakdown and he abandons her at a  hospital.  The first-person voice of the woman narrating the story is  riveting.  Everything that happens, no matter how extreme, is conveyed with  the same neutral tone; it's up to the reader to pass judgment on the  relationship, for she does not. It would be unfair to judge S&amp;M by this  book, though, for she didn't know what she was getting into.  I recommend  McNeill's short book to readers undisturbed by explicit descriptions of  kinky sex.	2000-01-08
US	50734332	R2U1QIOUYZ7TZZ	0192834819	586945850	Daniel Deronda (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	41	44	N	N	A stunning gamble by an eminent Victorian.	This novel, originally published in 1876, was Eliot's last.  It has remained controversial ever since, and some critics delete it from her first-rank work.  It is an ideological novel, and its plot is forced at  times (too many coincidences, for one thing).  The central character  appears to be Gwendolen Harleth at the start (note the echo of her last  name with &quot;harlot&quot;), who pawns a necklace at a gaming table only  to have it returned by a disapproving observer--the eponymous Deronda.   While offended, Gwendolen is also fascinated by Daniel and finally takes  him on as her conscience as the novel continues, at great length, weaving a  multitude of characters and issues into a fabric with an echo-chamber  effect (in the sense that various elements of the book echo each other in  odd and unpredictable ways throughout the novel, such as the continuing  ways that people gamble with their own fates and the lives of others).   This is a novel of sensibility, a link between Austen's method and Woolf's.   But it is also a romantic treatment of Zionism (well before it was a  popular issue, especially in Victorian England), with all the Jewish leads  ennobled and idealized.  In this sense it reads differently than  MIDDLEMARCH, which was strictly realistic except at the very end.  It's  closer to SILAS MARNER, a morality tale with symbolic characters.   Gwendolen is one of the saddest and most beautiful figures in any novel.   She wants so deeply to be the center of attention, and finally can't even  be the title character of the novel she's in.  There are so many marvellous  moments in this book, it repays the time it takes to read it many times  over.  I do not think Eliot arrived at a satisfying structure for the book,  though; her need to promote Zionism prevented it.  The Oxford paperback  edition is the one I read, and I can recommend it highly -- its notes are  superb.  But the print is very small, so if that bothers you use another  edition.	2000-01-05
US	50734332	RBUKI99INXW0J	0393001466	748736154	An Autobiographical Study (The Standard Edition)  (Complete Psychological Works of Sigmund Freud)	Books	4	23	24	N	N	A fascinating look at Freud's early career.	Almost one hundred years ago to the month (November 1899), Freud published his landmark book, &quot;The Interpretation of Dreams,&quot; in German.  The world hasn't been the same since then.  No matter what you think of him  (many who dislike Freud base their views on what others have said about him  or done with his theories), he changed the concept of what it means to be a  human being. This long essay (it runs 95 pages with index) came out in  1925, when he was at the height of his fame.  It recounts the development  of his career and his theories of sexual development.  As such it provides  an overview of the subjects for which he became famous.  It isn't a  personal book, concentrating on professional rather than personal  associations.  I would call it an intellectual memoir--but whatever you  call it, it is well worth reading.	1999-12-21
US	50734332	R551H3XCJTRKG	0806512288	571622357	Divine Invasions: A Life of Philip K. Dick	Books	5	22	23	N	N	The truth about PKD.	Sutin's comprehensive literary biography of PKD is a godsend, because it clears up so many loose ends of his life and work.  The background about his lost twin, who died as a baby (he was buried with her in Colorado), and  his father's abandonment of the family, does much to clarify a lifetime of  driven insecurity.  Dick's failure to break out of the genre category with  his &quot;quality novels&quot; (most of them published after his death in  small editions) in the late 1950s led to a revolution within science  fiction itself, where he had to continue publishing.  In fact Dick was a  fantasist at heart, and ahead of his time in working through genre  categories.  Unfortunately the pay and prestige for even brilliant genre  writers were so limited that his spirit was finally broken.  Moreover, he  made several bad decisions about relationships that gradually led him into  his own strange world of cosmic paranoia.  When acclaim and success finally  came his way, his life was over.  He died at age 53 in March 1982. Sutin  adds a very helpful &quot;Chronological survey and guide&quot; that  establishes the actual order of the books he wrote, their publication  history (which has altered a bit since 1989, when the book was publshed),  and summary and evaluation of each book.  Strongly recommended for anyone  seriously interested in this author's work.	1999-12-21
US	50734332	RYV9EXKLRS0JH	1890451029	147616999	Bread & Wine: An Erotic Tale of New York	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Delany's love story isn't like anyone else's.	This is a &quot;graphic novel&quot; put out by Juno Books, which in an earlier incarnation (Re/Search) put out some of the most unusual and interesting large format takes on fringe culture in the last decade.    Delany has done a autobiographical account of his romance with a homeless  man, but being Delany, he offers quite a bit more than that.  The book is  as much the artist's, Mia Wolff's, in that her visualization of the  relationship establishes much of what the reader/viewer makes of it.  Her  style is not complex, but it has depth and at times surprising jumps of  fantasy.  Throughout the book, Delany reminds us his title is taken from a  famous poem by Holderlin (a German Romantic who wrote brilliantly and then  went mad); by quoting several passages from Holderlin's meditation on the  inevitable failure of reconciling the classical past to the present, he  gets a postmodern buzz into an otherwise straightforward love story.   Anyone bothered by (literally) graphic depictions of sex between men should  probably pass on the book, but that should still leave quite a few of us.   What finally predominates is a touching depiction of unlikely lovers.  Much  of what happens would be cliched if the partners were hetero, but the gay  version puts a spin on the material.  Anyone who really likes Delany should  be interested, and anyone concerned with the progressive edge of the  graphic novel format will enjoy it.  My only quibble is that at times Wolff  depicts Delany like a fond Santa Claus, and that seems a bit much  considering the material presented.	1999-12-04
US	50734332	R34JCOXV6THKAJ	0385422598	516681005	Sleepwalking Through History	Books	4	62	78	N	N	Johnson dissects an era's political &amp; social collapse.	Johnson has a hard-hitting and incisive critique of the lax, hands-off approach Reagan took to handling the ills of his age.  It's not news that the Iran-contra affair further soured respect for government, that economic  policies designed to make the rich richer also made the poor much poorer,  that a pattern of denial and deception in Reagan's staff was the standard  approach to dealing with the media or the Congress.  Johnson admits  Reagan's power as a President, but is sharply critical of much of what he  accomplished through that strength.  Anyone strongly sympathetic with his  legacy probably ought not to look at this book; it will anger you.  Others  who are interested should see it.  You will not have the full story of the  80s by any means; Johnson is selective about what he discusses (neither  Canada nor Lebanon are indexed at the end, and AIDS is discussed on one  page).  But on what he does cover, like the Iran-contra scandal, and junk  bonds, Johnson is thorough.  I picked up the book to review the Iran-contra  affair, and its reporting satisfied me.  Col. Oliver North had nothing but  contempt for the members of Congress who challenged him on his lies and  subterfuge; that contempt was validated by Reagan's own contempt for laws  he did not like or wish to enforce.  (Johnson points out that Reagan  appointed individuals hostile to the intent of the agency they were  overseeing if he disagreed with what the agency was doing, like the Dept.  of Education or the EPA.)  This book was published in early 1991, and it is  worthwhile to consider the parallel problems that Clinton had with the  Congress late in his administration, for very different reasons.  Every  president since Kennedy seems to have developed an undertow towards the end  of his term or terms, one that damaged the premises of his presidency;   Kennedy escaped his through his early death.  One wonders what the upcoming  administrations will do to try to counter that effect.	1999-11-22
US	50734332	R7VBO3XXJUNUB	034542672X	981663600	The Rise and Fall of Gay Culture	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Boy was I wrong!	In view of the recent postings on this book, including by the author himself, I wanted to update some commentary I made in early 1998 on this  site.  I predicted that fundamentalists would not respond to this book, and  the lengthy commentary by a person with that viewpoint proved me wrong.  I  didn't blame Harris for reacting vituperatively, although the anti-gay  commentary seemed more directed to the visibility of gay people in American  culture than to the book itself.  Books like Harris's are needed by  movements as correctives to the rah-rah propaganda  that balances the still  largely negative attitudes towards homosexuality and homosexuals.  I  disagreed with some of his analysis, but he moved certain aspects of his  subjects forward and so the book was worth reading.  What the  fundamentalist who now recommends the book as a negative portrayal of gay  life misses is that Harris is offering a critique of American life, using  gay men as his study example.  Now the people who read Allan Bloom  selectively are doing the same thing with Harris, justifying their own  animus against what they oppose with the words of their enemy.  Insofar as  I failed to see that this would occur, I owe an apology to Harris which I  am publicly making here.	1999-10-31
US	50734332	R37QYCWDS1NBZZ	0486227642	45057575	Songs of Innocence (Dover Fine Art, History of Art)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	From humility, genius.	Dover has done the reading world an enormous favor by keeping books like this available in low-cost editions.  Poems like &quot;The Little Black Boy,&quot; The Chimney Sweeper,&quot; and &quot;The Lamb&quot; are among  the sweetest, saddest lyrics ever penned by a poet in English.  Reading  these poems in an edition that provides facsimile color reproductions of  the original watercolor plates (painted individually by hand) helps in our  perception of them.  These poems were meant to be absorbed visually.  Branches, vines and leaves weave through the lines as we read.  Of course  children can appreciate the sentiment and charm of the poems, but older  readers will see their sharp social criticism as well, especially when  balanced against matching poems in Blake's &quot;Songs of Experience.&quot;  This book has my favorite pastoral lyics in the language.  It is a  permanent contribution to the spirit of humankind.	1999-09-15
US	50734332	RMMNPXE1URVMN	0803299028	666499562	American Indian Stories (Myths and Legends)	Books	5	39	41	N	N	&quot;A living mosaic of human beings.&quot;	Zitkala-Sa (Gertrude Bonnin) collected her autobiographical narratives from the Atlantic Monthly (1900-1902), and some fictional folktales, in this 1921 book.  Obscure and out of print for decades, it was rediscovered  in the 1970s and in 1985 was issued in this facsimile of the first edition,  with a helpful forward by Dexter Fisher.  It's tempting to call Zitkala-Sa  the Native American Zora Neale Hurston, but Zitkala-Sa is too original to  be seen as a version of anyone else.  The story of her upbringing, and the  deceptive luring of her to a missionary-sponsored school in the east, where  she found herself held down as her hair was cut (a scene that reads with  the intensity of a rape), is riveting and heartrending.  Although bitter  about her experiences, she achieved a full education in English, expertise  on the violin (she performed in Paris), and finally the presidency of the  National Council of American Indians, which successfully promoted a law  making Native Americans citizens of the United States.  The book as a whole  reflects her empowerment, but also speaks eloquently in a conquering  culture's language of what it is to have no power over your destiny or  selfhood.  Her integration of several competing selves led her to write  this, in &quot;The Great Spirit&quot;:  &quot;The racial lines, which once  were bitterly real, now serve nothing more than marking out a living mosaic  of human beings.&quot;  I for one feel richer for having read this book,  and knowing the story of an American hero in her own words.  Very highly  recommended to all.	1999-09-04
US	50734332	R2S4MBPUETG4ED	0786703237	787092069	Genius in Disguise: Harold Ross of the New Yorker	Books	5	16	16	N	N	&quot;We're a family magazine, goddammit.&quot;	This book is a solid and readable biography not only of a man but of a magazine, for The New Yorker strikes many of us as a living entity in an age in which most magazines are stiffs.  The most interesting part of it is  the actual creation of the magazine, from the initial prospectus (still  accurate of the current mag in many ways) to the gradual assembling of a  poorly-paid but nonpareil team of writers nurtured by one of the most  eccentric editors ever to helm a major publication.  The rest is also  interesting, if ultimately rather sad.  Ross came from a modest background  and got his feet wet in military publications.  He was never easy to be  around, and often bullied writers and friends and wives (several became  ex-writers, -friends and -wives) over the course of his life.  He struggled  financially most of his life, and was cheated out of a fair amount of money  by a personal secretary who committed suicide rather than face the truth.   Yet he brought out the best in a cadre of brilliant writers and artists  (Ross never thought of cartoonists who did interior drawings and covers as  less than that), and the magazine, no matter what you think of it, changed  what one can do and be.  By the time that Ross died, he had become a  legend.  Kunkel does a fair amount of debunking of that legend, while  making clear why Ross accomplished what he did.  The overall view is one of  guarded admiration of its central figure.  The development is thematic  rather than strictly chronological, so there are variations on certain  themes as the story progresses, but I wasn't bothered by it.  The book  doesn't seem long despite its length.  I recommend it for anyone interested  in the people behind one of the publishing phenomenons of the modern era.   (My subject line is something Ross said when complaints surfaced that The  New Yorker was getting too liberal in its epithets.  It's related to the  statement in the original prospectus that The New Yorker is &quot;not for  the old lady from Dubuque&quot;.)	1999-08-22
US	50734332	RKJE92SUL601P	0814906761	175366945	Wheel of Love and Other Stories	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A key short story collection of the last 30 years.	It's a shame this collection is no longer in print.  When it came out in 1970, it created a huge stir (Oates had just won the National Book Award for the novel &quot;them&quot;) and signalled the full flowering of a  brilliant short story writer.  Oates has released several fine collections  over the years--my second favorite by her is &quot;Last Days&quot;  (1984)--but this one has the strongest impact.  Anyone who wants to know  the soul of America in the 1950s and 1960s should read it.  The title story  (about a failed marriage told backwards--she beat Pinter's  &quot;Betrayal&quot; by over a decade), &quot;In the Region of Ice,&quot;  &quot;Accomplished Desires,&quot; &quot;Where Are You Going, Where Have You  Been,&quot; and several other stories are among the best an American short  story writer has produced since WWII.  I am not just raving here.  The only  post-WWII collections (not career retrospectives but collections gathering  recent publications) I know that hold up to it are Flannery O'Connor's A  Good Man Is Hard to Find (1955) and John Updike's Pigeon Feathers and Other  Stories (1962).  Oates has an uncanny way of getting into the psyches of  her characters, particularly her women, and anatomizing them in short  order.  She has a dark view of human nature, but an artist is entitled to a  view--and anyway, as D. H. Lawrence said (of Cooper), &quot;The essential  American soul is hard, isolate, stoic, and a killer.&quot;  You will see  why I quote this statement when you read the stories in this book.	1999-05-21
US	50734332	R1SF5CL3DJ816N	0316184136	844504752	The Complete Poems of Emily Dickinson	Books	5	83	88	N	N	One of the few poets who ever perfected a method.	I have 1000 words to tell what Dickinson means to me, an impossible task I gladly take up.  I'd like to respond to others on this page.  I once called Dickinson the &quot;patron saint of lonely people everywhere,&quot; so I  can identify with what one person said about teenage shut-ins.  And I don't  blame the person who snubbed her for not leaving a name--I'd be embarrassed  to as well.  Emily egotistical?  The poet who wrote, &quot;I'm  nobody&quot;?  Wow.  I love Dickinson's work so much because her vision of  life is so fully her own, so at odds with the views of those around her.   Can you imagine knowing you are the most brilliant lyric poet of your time  (Whitman was more an epic or narrative poet), and knowing no one understood  you?  It's like trying to communicate in a foreign language that only you  know.  In fact, that is exactly what she did--she explodes the syntax,  vocabulary, and syllabication of English and transforms it into her own  private means of communication.  She demands that we meet her on her  ground.  True, reading her work is not &quot;fun&quot;--there's too much  pain and burning beauty in it to be an easy ride. She is not for  everyone--only for those who see that life's disappointments both destroy  and liberate us at the same time:  comparing human hurts to trees destroyed  by nature's forces, she says (in  poem 314), &quot;We--who have the Souls--  / Die oftener--Not so vitally--.&quot;  Those may be the finest lines any  poet ever wrote in English.	1999-04-25
US	50734332	R2BNKBKKFTICYK	0312207859	295646547	Alfred Hitchcock and the Making of Psycho	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Rebello offers a needed defense of this great film.	Believe it or not, the reputation of the film Psycho is not that high among Hitchcock scholars.  Most of them prefer the 50s films (Vertigo and Rear Window), or 30s films (The Thirty-Nine Steps and The Lady Vanishes).   Reviewers also disliked this film upon its release, although as Rebello  notes, that had a lot to do with Hitchcock's unwillingness to let them see  it before its release to the public.  (He wanted no advance word on its  shocking contents.)  Psycho has always been a success with its audience,  and the viewers are the ones who keep its reputation as one of Hitchcock's  greatest films alive.  This book starts with the actual serial killer that  Robert Bloch based his novel on, proceeds to the optioning of the novel  (Bloch had no idea who bought it and sold it for very little, but his  reputation was made for life), the preproduction problems (the studio  didn't want it made, so it was done as a low-budget quickie), its scripting  and filming, postproduction, release, and unexpected success.  An irony of  the film, according to Rebello, is that Hitchcock never quite got over its  success.  His later films were seen as letdowns after this one (although I  put two of them, The Birds and Marnie, among his 15 best).  Anyone who  cares about this film will devour this book as I did.  I recommend it  unequivocally.	1999-02-11
US	50734332	R1ETUZAM6V9WYW	0811207560	497975333	A Lovely Sunday for Creve Coeur	Books	3	9	10	N	N	A minor but charming play from a great writer.	A great writer cannot turn out a masterpiece (that overloaded term) each time, and no one reading or seeing A Lovely Sunday for Creve Coeur will mistake it for Williams's best work.  Nevertheless, it has a touch of his genius, and enacts in miniature what he does so well in his greatest plays.  Several mismatched people living in a boarding house in St. Louis become entangled in each other's lives.  Prominent among them is an aging woman now basing her hope for a &quot;real&quot; life on the proposal of a man hardly worth her attention, and who learns she will have to make a life for herself or remain unfulfilled.  The message of the play is to appreciate what you have, rather than striving  for what you cannot achieve.  It's a lesson Blanche DuBois might have heeded.  As always, the poetic quality of the author's dialogue and stage directions enhances the play.  This nicely printed New Directions &quot;paperbook&quot; is recommended to those who already know the author's best work, and who would like to get a fuller sense of his different moods and subjects.  (Creve Coeur is a park in St. Louis, by the way.)	1998-06-24
US	50734332	R2UK2TME0OQM35	1555972322	675580081	So It Goes: Poems	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Grennan's poetic concerns are well displayed here.	Having read strong work by Grennan in The New Yorker magazine in recent years, I decided to try him at book length.  This handsomely printed trade paperback offers a large selection of poems, most of them published in the most distinguished poetry magazines in America (one is also from Irish Times).  There is no questioning Grennan's skill as a wordsmith; his turns of phrase evoke scenes with a hallucinatory accuracy.  The book as a whole is rather heavy, though, because the majority of it recounts the writer's sad struggle with his mother's slow death.  A Wordsworthian at heart, Grennan recollects in tranquillity the incidents that most struck his senses.  For my money (the book costs $14.00), the best material here are his poems on animals (&quot;Towards Dusk the Porcupine,&quot; &quot;Bat,&quot; and &quot;Horses,&quot; the last of which is the best in the book) and &quot;Angel Looking Away,&quot; an extraordinary blending of a Florentine Renaissance bas-relief with a 20th century scene of political torture.  That is Grennan doing what other poets can or do not.	1998-05-31
US	50734332	RJ5UKV3UNSTZ1	0932445497	57339815	Stardark Songs	Books	2	1	3	N	N	A disappointing book overall.	Springer, best known for her fantasy fiction, makes a foray into poetry in this small press selection from previous chapbooks and more recent publications in genre magazines like Weird Tales and Star*Line.  I got the book because I liked one poem called &quot;To Be a Hero,&quot; reprinted in Datlow and Windling's 5th Year's Best Fantasy and Horror.  It's the best poem in this book, and uncharacteristic of the rest.  Springer would never have gotten this material published in real poetry magazines.  It is not characteristic of her best work, for which she is deservedly known (e.g., &quot;The Boy Who Plaited Manes&quot; [1986]).  Besides the above mentioned poem, I can recommend two others here: &quot;So the Battle's Won,&quot; a meditation on what's left of love after the strife of life; and &quot;Happily Ever,&quot; an amusingly modernized &quot;Cinderella&quot; (&quot;Cinderella grew short of breath / And needed bifocals / And radical bladder surgery&quot;).  The rest is a mishmash of new agey world mythology.  Springer should stick to what she does best:  writing fiction.	1998-05-31
US	50734332	R2TOAEMXVSBFMM	0345392612	228379976	Lords of the Realm	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Helyar locates the real winners and losers of the game.	Helyar's Lords of the Realm, published in 1994 and updated in 1995 to cover the strike of '94, offers us a near definitive portrait of the evolution of baseball as a corporate enterprise and &quot;big money&quot; phenomenon.  While he covers the entire evolution of the game, his emphasis is on the last thirty years or so, when the issues have been the TV-ization of the game and the battle for a player's association--which resulted in free agency, skyrocketing salaries, and an increasingly sour relationship between and among team owners, general managers, players, and fans.  Helyar exposes the seamier side of these issues, and at times everyone concerned looks shabby.  However, there are moments of heroism as well:  A. Bartlett Giamatti's ill-fated attempt to broker changes that would please both owners and players (a task worthy of a Quixote) stands out in this regard.  While the owners often come off looking like venal cutthroats, it is ironic that their fears about driving up payrolls and alienating fans have come to pass.  Helyar is excellent at turning an anecdote--like Ted Turner's barking like a dog in a hotel lobby to get himself banned from the game for a year--into a piece in a much larger puzzle.  I understood after reading it how much more is involved in baseball than who won last night's game, or even this year's World Series.  Strongly recommended.	1998-05-28
US	50734332	R2K7JDYPGAO0NN	0965384683	600603745	If They Don't Win It's a Shame: The Year the Marlins Bought the World Series	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Who steals this book steals trash, to paraphrase Othello.	The Marlins made a mistake when they gave Rosenbaum more or less complete access into their lives and locker room.  He quickly took a dislike to this team (he doesn't seem to like baseball much either), and set about gathering everything he could to put the players, coaches, managers and owners in the worst possible light. Field manager Jim Leyland comes up for the most cheap shots, but everyone gets his share sooner or later.  The &quot;bite me&quot; statement Kevin Brown foolishly made to newsmen gets repeated countless times, for instance.  Anyone with a shadow companion could be made to look bad in similar fashion; all that shadow has to do is take the negative out of context and offer it as evidence of incompetence.  I am not arguing with the factual information in the book, and anyone who truly cared about the Marlins of '97 is likely to find the book interesting because no other book will offer the wealth of detail it does.  But we will have to look elsewhere to discover how and why this team took the World Series, because the team portrayed in this book would have been incapable of it.  Very disappointing overall, and Rosenbaum's constant sarcasm is particularly unwelcome.	1998-05-22
US	50734332	R36HF9QY1N73ZC	0393311384	937704062	Field of Screams: The Dark Underside of America's National Pastime	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Field of Screams--the Hollywood Babylon of baseball.	Scheinin's expose of the underbelly of professional baseball has enough dirt to satisfy even the most sated of baseball cynics.  Only a game that has spawned as much cultural mythology as baseball could turn up this many tales of greed, egomania, viciousness and general mayhem.  Anyone who thinks spitting at an umpire is the lowest form of behavior on the field will quickly realize that today's baseball is well-behaved compared to the trash of its past.  This book is not complexly written; it simply recounts the most wretched players, coaches, and fans (let's not forget them), showing them in their worst possible light decade by decade.  The minute they start behaving well, they're dropped from consideration.  Needless to say, the portrait of buffoonery that emerges (with strategically chosen illustrations) distorts the overall history of the game, but stands as a tonic to the way that the sport is marketed in the big-media world of MLB these days.  Whatever the book's merits, we owe Scheinin a thanks for utterly destroying the nostalgic haze invoked by the names of Ruth and Williams (Ted, that is), among others.  One final note:  even given the grungy lifeforms the book offers for comparison, Billy Martin comes off as one of the most pathetic individuals ever to don pinstripes.  Baseball was well rid of him.	1998-03-22
US	50734332	R6R5LVZQOVXFG	0802130917	863357192	Glengarry Glen Ross: A Play	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Mamet invents a new form of invective in GGR.	Glengarry Glen Ross has been sufficiently praised that my adding to it isn't necessary.  I'd like to note what struck me the most about the play, which I've read rather than seen performed.  The charged vulgarity in his dialogue--here, in exchanges between pairs of overwhelmed and overheated heterosexual men, most of whom reached their level of incompetence years before we first meet them--creates an new territory of invective in which language becomes a retaliation for everything life has denied them.  While his other plays also share this quality of language, Glengarry focuses it and takes it to a new level.  It is not what Mamet does that's original--his alienation effect can be found in Brecht, his abstract naturalism in Pinter and Orton--but his style is new, especially the assaultive level in his language.  No one needs to carry guns in his plays; they can just open their mouths and accomplish the same thing.  Now that younger writers (like the slacker auteur Kevin Smith) have learned Mamet's lessons, we can expect new changes to be rung on the same technique.	1998-03-01
US	50734332	RW25M1ALSURX1	1563330547	293547937	Slaves of the Empire	Books	2	24	28	N	N	Travis (a.k.a. Steven Saylor) eroticizes Roman slavery here.	Saylor, an editor for a number of soft-core gay porn magazines in the 1980s under the name of Aaron Travis, retained his pen name for the erotica published by Richard Kasak in his BadBoy imprint.  The original novel was serialized around 1980, in Drummer magazine I believe.  It's explicit SM fiction that follows the erotic adventures of an arena warrior subjugated by the Roman upper class as well as other warriors.  Saylor knows his Roman history (as he reveals in his novels about the Roman &quot;detective&quot;), and writes better in this format than most of his fellow pornographers.  Ironically, the graphically portrayed sexual abuse of slaves is probably more accurate of their actual condition than in the Quo Vadis-type bestsellers, which romanticized their Christian conversion (as late as the film adaptation of Spartacus in 1960, Kubrick had to cut direct allusions to sex between masters and slaves).  Ultimately the book isn't up to much, and it's unlikely anyone will ever do a dissertation on Saylor's work, but it's a fun weekend read.  A note to anyone interested:  get it now, because BadBoy is letting many of these books go out of print.	1998-03-01
US	50734332	R3TUCHJRDBK9MH	0786861657	981663600	The Rise and Fall of Gay Culture	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Harris is the Allan Bloom of gay American life.	Allan Bloom issued The Closing of the American Mind in 1987, and since then has become a touchstone for the intellectual curmudgeons who object to the dumbing down of our culture (he's also been picked up by fundamentalists who read the book selectively and partially).  Now here comes Daniel Harris, who apparently has decided to do the same thing for gay male culture (often sex culture).  It would be easy to dismiss the book as trivial because it deals with mimeographed contact magazines of the 1940s, or the underwear ads in the back pages of Esquire magazine in the early 1970s.  What is astounding about Harris is that he makes such issues seem important,subjecting them to points of intellectual pressure no one else has.  That's the best part of the book.  Now for the rest:  Harris hates American culture, and by using the &quot;assimilation&quot; of gay culture by the larger society as his example, he attempts to show how what was unique about gay existence has largely been lost, and soon will be entirely lost.  What are we losing?  Our effiminacy, our worship of dead movie stars, our desire to get into drag and camp it up in bars.  What a loss!  On the other hand, anyone who wishes to affirm a gay masculinity is a straight wannabe (he bashes the bear movement among others).  This book started out as a series of well-received essays in magazines (including Harper's), but at book length Harris repeats his ideas and his examples with numbing repetitiveness.  He unearths enough unusual and little discussed artifacts of the pre-Stonewall era to merit a look, but this book is not the comprehensive reassessment of gay American life its publisher is trying to market it as being.  One last note:  there's no chance the fundies will read this one, selectively or otherwise.	1998-02-04
US	50734332	R2RIRGHU9XRY7I	0452260302	940938089	The Universal Baseball Association, Inc., J. Henry Waugh, Prop.	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Coover changed baseball fiction forever with this book.	Coover's UBAI (as many people refer to it) is a definitive postmodern take on the game.  Only Don DeLillo's End Zone comes close in portraying the failure of identity through sportsmanship.  Whether the protagonist (whose name recalls J. Alfred Prufock) has found in his made-up game a metaphor for an empty life, or shows himself a schizophrenic through it, is left for the reader to decide.  It would be a truism to say that Coover deconstructs the national pastime in this novel; more to the point, he locates the pressure points of a culture's emptiness, replaced with the illusion of meaning through identifying with nonreality. This is not an anti-baseball novel--it could be called the ultimate tribute to the game's addictiveness, and as such it pays tribute to the addictive nature of American leisure activities, used to blank out a hectic, often brutal way of life. How baseball became postmodern--through cable TV dissemination, free agency, and the Oprah-ization of masculinity (Mark McGwire's tearful press conference this fall)--is anticipated in Coover's funny, finally tragic book. Strongly recommended to serious readers.	1997-11-24
US	50734332	R2B8IL3WIQLTPJ	0395752906	644615264	The Best American Short Stories 1996	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Wideman zips up the BASS series with a multicultural slant.	After last year's disastrous edition of this distinguished series, John Edgar Wideman puts it back on track with an eclectic and challenging potpourri of contemporary fiction.  In 1984's edition, editor John Updike complained in his introduction that a cultural sameness had befallen the work he seleced from--middle class white folks struggling with identity and life circumstances (he compared it unfavorably to the 1934 edition, where he noted a good deal more pluralism in cultures and situations raised, and blamed magazine editors for not publishing more broadly).  Well, Wideman has finally pushed this series over the line by keeping his fictional antennae up for alternative cultures, ethnic or otherwise.  Although he only chose 6 stories from the slicks (as opposed to &quot;little&quot; magazines), I thought they had the edge this year.  Five stories reprinted hit my favorite list, three of them from slicks:  Stuart Dybek's hallucinatory treatment of the fiery eroticism of everyday life in &quot;Paper Lantern&quot; (The New Yorker); Angela Patrinos's heartbreaking portrayal of a female drifter's job as an fine art school's nude model in &quot;Sculpture I&quot; (The New Yorker), and Stephen Dixon's wrenching stream of consciousness evocation of the few days immediately following the loss of a man's young wife to cancer in &quot;Sleep&quot; (Harper's).  From the small mags, two that really caught my eye were William Lychack's clever &quot;A Stand of Fables&quot; (Quarterly West), a magic realist updating of a traditional literary form, and Dan Chaon's &quot;Fitting Ends&quot; (TriQuarterly), a tragic tale of a boy whose pointless death later affects the lives of his parents, brother, and brother's family.   Not among my favorites but liked by students in my creative writing class include stories by Butler, Oates, Gaylan, Lewis, Schwartz, and Thon (though the latter split the class--some loved it while others hated it).  Overall the stories this year did not seem eccentrically selected, or part of an editor's personal hobbyhorse about what fiction should do or be.  Minimalism seems to be dying, and an &quot;anything goes&quot; gaminess returning to the contemporary short story.  That might bother some readers, but still leaves quite a few of us.  As usual a couple of stories got in that I hated (Brown's and Adams's), but that's just me.  I recommend this book for its mix of styles and up to date report on what short fiction writers are up to in the trenches of publication.	1997-10-23
US	50734332	RHI77KXW6FM3H	082831716X	134986432	Musings from the porchlit sea	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Ken Pobo starts fine small press career with this book.	Kenneth Pobo (now professor of English at Widener University) was in graduate school when he released this, his first book of poems.  It has the energy of a committed young adult mind awash in the throes of poetic ecstasy.  Although he has published several other chapbooks since then, and written a great deal of work in hundreds of little magazines, his earliest collection still packs quite a punch.  One sonnet, &quot;The Scuttlers,&quot; typifies the sharpness of his language:  &quot;Hello.  I'm a suburban insect / burrowing into homes, chewing cash,&quot; go the first lines.  It turns out the &quot;suburban insect&quot; is simply a commuter on a train, but Pobo transforms the figure into a Kafkaesque creation.  Another poem is a sustained line-by-line parody of T. S. Eliot called &quot;The Disco Version of The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufock&quot;:  &quot;I have measured out my life with AM tunes,&quot; he writes.  This books bristles with so much life that it's a shame it's out of print.  Some small press entrepreneur ought to collect the fiercest material in this and his later books (as well as his extensive catalogue of poems in little magazines and original anthologies) for a &quot;greatest hits&quot; selected poems.  The &quot;AM tunes&quot; that inspired this fine writer's work would find a welcoming audience in the intimate but committed community of poetry lovers.	1997-09-23
US	50734332	RWRMBFAOA7E68	0373253435	435542303	Right Time (Temptation)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Engels pens a winner in this Southern-set category romance.	A great many romances are next year's insulation.  Not this one.  Engels starts out fairly typically, with a working woman in Chicago who dramatically shifts her position in life briefly and realizes she didn't have much of a life to begin with.  It's common in category romances, which often involve a retreat to an island or cabin and then contrast it to a return to the earlier way of life.  Here, though, the shift is compelling.  The doctor escaping his past in the boondocks of Tennessee realizes that the &quot;efficiency specialist&quot; he was temporarily sent (she was supposed to be a nurse) is exactly what he (and the community) have needed desperately.  And the female lead realizes her life in the big city was a lonely sham.  The ending, in which she's sadly returned to Chicago after he has made clear he'll never leave his clinic, only to find him waiting at her apartment door, is one of the sharpest conclusions of any romance I've read (over 400 at last count, not high by real romance addicts' standards).  I am now reading this book for the 6th time, and not tired of it yet.  Strongly recommended	1997-09-21
US	50734332	R1LG856FORN1G5	055357535X	121234710	The Stories of Eva Luna	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Isabel Allende is a twentieth-century Scheherazade.	Anyone wishing to read a book of stories that mesmerizes you like the first stories you ever heard need look no further than this superb collection.  The framing premise is that Eva and her lover Rolf have relaxed after an amorous encounter, and now Rolf wishes Eva to tell him a story (&quot;Make it up for me,&quot; he tells her).  From the bed, Eva spins 23 amazing stories drawing from fairy tales, magic realism, the chaotic history of Latin America, and the reality (including dream reality) of women's contemporary and past lives.  Varying broadly in their setting and characters, the stories remain unified in their unflinchingly tough-minded view of life, filtered through the wish fulfillments of a tempestuous seductress.  Using the inspiration of The Thousand Nights  and a Night, Allende refracts the empowerment of women in a male-infested world through the lens of the power of words.  The stories have a cumulative impact, but individual titles that stand out to this reader include &quot;The Little Heidelberg,&quot; &quot;Walimai,&quot; &quot;If You Touched My Heart,&quot; &quot;The Judge's Wife,&quot; &quot;Our Secret,&quot; &quot;Ester Lucero,&quot; and the wrenching final story, &quot;And of Clay Are We Created&quot; (with an ending similar to Woody Allen's Radio Days).   Having been stranded on the flotsam of political chaos herself, Allende acutely details shifts in the characters' fates as citizens of impoverished and disempowered cultures.  Moreover, the notion that postmodern narrative offers style but little feeling or substance is disproved by this author and book. Highly recommended	1997-08-22
US	50734332	R2OPXOEKXIJ47F	0312861761	562507215	The Moon is a Harsh Mistress	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Heinlein's best and worst are on display in this novel.	First, the best.  Heinlein writes more vividly and with better style here than he did in any novel before or after.  Only some of his crackerjack short stories and novelettes compare to the pacing and clever plotting found here.  Like other sf writers in the 60s, he started responding to the more &quot;respectable&quot; literature outside the field, and unless I miss my mark was influenced by the bastardized Russian of Burgess's A Clockwork Orange (1962).  Indisputably the best character in this novel (as in the film 2001, a couple years later) is a computer who responds much more humanly than a lot of the &quot;real&quot; people in the book.  The loss of Mike the talking computer at the end makes the book something of a tragedy, for any world that isn't large enough to contain this guy is much the worse for it.  Now for the worst.  Much of the book is a libertarian diatribe that embodies every masculinist and militaristic idea Heinlein ever had.  It wouldn't be a surprise to find out that Tim McVeigh or the Unabomber memorized a novel like this, for its message is that when you don't like the way things are, a violent secretive response is the way to go. Scary stuff.  The treatment of women is lowbrow by today's standards (and a lot have called him on it all along).  Nevertheless, for the novel's ingenious story, its fascinating creation of alternative family life, and winning voice in the I-narrator Manny, it deserves a new lease on life--and a hardback edition that can go into libraries and readers' permanent collections	1997-08-04
US	50734332	R1Y3A3ZU3P9GKZ	0393039765	311054036	Fight Club	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fight Club is a striking first novel along Ballardian lines.	Palahniuk's novel was a bit lost in the scramble of promoting and reviewing current &quot;literary&quot; fiction.  Norton issued it as a mainstream novel, but may have made a mistake by not promoting the book's affinity with postmodern apocalyptic fiction by J. G. Ballard, who obviously influenced this author's work.  He isn't an easy read; Palahniuk pushes his obsessions about as far as Poe did in his most outre work (e.g., &quot;Berenice&quot;), but is never less than riveting.  I read much of the book in public in airports on a flight home at Christmas, and if I had started reading aloud I might have been arrested on the spot.  Palahniuk gets down to the grungiest, most painfully disturbing level of life in his portrait of contemporary underground men (literally so, since the &quot;fight clubs&quot; are staged in basements).  There's a trick ending in this book--but without it the book might have gone downhill, since the earlier parts are so over the top.  Anyone taken by promising American writers like Rick Moody and Donald Antrim ought to look at this book.  I recommend it, and predict a cult following for it	1997-05-18
