US	50739900	R21452KO73GKT	0393315703	194483165	The Blind Watchmaker: Why the Evidence of Evolution Reveals a Universe without Design (Reissued in 2006 and 1996)	Books	3	9	22	N	N	Don Quixote rides again!	I stumbled across &quot;The Blind Watchmaker&quot; while searching the Internet for a book containing a parable concerning two watchmakers, one of which assembled many more watches than the other, even though both were interrupted repeatedly. Having seen the name Dawkins in other places, I decided to give BW a try. <br />Richard Dawkins, a Darwinian evolutionist, does battle with Creationists in this book. He starts with, &quot;This book is written in the conviction that our own existence once presented the greatest of all mysteries, but that it is a mystery no longer, because it is solved. Darwin and Wallace solved it . . . The problem is that of complex design.&quot; To translate . . . the origin or design of humans is no longer a mystery. What religionists have struggled with since well before the earliest writings is no longer a mystery . . .  Dawkins tilts at BIG windmills.<br />Religions usually contain two parts, a Creation Myth and a Code of Conduct. Christians have &quot;In the beginning ... &quot; and the Ten Commandments. God creates whatever is needed, even new species. Atheist Dawkins claims God is not needed. All life can come into being from small changes in living forms, then selection of the fittest, following Darwin's theory. Of course, it is much more complicated than that; otherwise, he wouldn't need 300 pages to explain it. <br />Science itself is not adverse to Myths, per se. In fact, a better name for Science would be Current Myths. Science even has a Creation Myth. It's called the Big Bang Theory, which is about the Creation of everything. It is a Myth because the surest prediction in Science is that which is believed today will be proven not quite true in the future. <br />As an agnostic scientist, I am fully in sympathy with what I think Richard Dawkins is trying to do, but I like things neat and tidy.  For example, he shows us one way that an eye could be formed, but he does not demonstrate that there are no other ways. Without this demonstration, he cannot make the grandiose claim that the universe is without design. A larger problem is his failure to take up that part of the load that religions bear, namely Codes of Conduct. We are so immersed in rules of human conduct that when someone breaks them, we shout it to the world. Until Richard Dawkins generates a Code of Conduct to accompany his Creation Myth of how humans came to be, maybe we should keep a &quot;designer&quot; around a while longer.<br />Oh, yes . . . the book I was originally looking for? It was &quot;The Sciences of the Artificial,&quot; by Herbert Simon (1969). The two watchmakers were named Hora and Tempus, and their tasks were hauntingly similar to those of the Blink Watchmaker. But, that book deserves its own review, so I will say no more about it here.	2000-10-26
US	50739900	R3ST6B3GNYN61Y	034540288X	861735579	The Lost World	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Intriguing Mystery	A good mystery leaves the solution in plain sight.  Misdirection is a<br />favorite tool used by authors to keep readers looking at the wrong<br />things. Michael Crichton carries it one step further, though. He<br />doesn't tell us what dastardly deed is being committed. But, it too is<br />in plain sight. So, let's try to solve the mystery.<br />Ian Malcolm,<br />newly resurrected from Jurassic Park (the book), enters in his usual<br />fashion by declaring the debate over a meteor impact as the cause of<br />dinosaur extinction to be &quot;frivolous and irrelevant<br />speculation&quot; - a typical Alpha Intellectual marking his<br />territory. This is the first misdirection - focus reader's attention<br />on dinosaurs' extinction. Next, Ian suggests that complex animals<br />become extinct because of changes in their behavior. The reader, on<br />cruise control, might naturally think that dinosaurs are the complex<br />animals being considered. But, is that really what the author meant?<br />Let's see.<br />Exhibit 1 - Sarah Harding never met a man she didn't<br />pity, despise, or hate . . . hardly endearing qualities to take to<br />bed. She works diligently to lure 11-year old Kelly into her web of<br />thinking.<br />Exhibit 2 - Ian Malcolm and Richard Levine have all their<br />creative juices trapped in their brains, so nothing is available for<br />sharing with females.<br />Exhibit 3 - Arby, a Black 8-year old genius<br />with a model set of parents (both doctors), spends his time with the<br />White tribe, thus abandoning his own culture.<br />Exhibit 4 - Lewis<br />Dodgson and his like-minded cohorts want to make money the oldest<br />fashion way, to steal it.<br />On the other hand, dinosaurs have family<br />values, love and care for their young, stick with their tribe, and<br />cooperate with other tribes when advantageous.<br />These details should<br />be sufficient to solve the mystery. However, if some readers still<br />don't get it, Crichton throws out a very broad hint. He introduces<br />chameleon dinosaurs, beings that fade into their backgrounds so well<br />that unsuspecting victims never know what hit them, or ate them, as<br />the case may be. People who think - the opposite sex is one of God's<br />mistakes, spinning theories is more important than more earthy<br />activities, culture isn't important, or honesty is for fools - fade<br />into our societal backgrounds, waiting to pounce on victims who don't<br />have a clue.<br />Pitted against this array of chameleons is Doc Thorne,<br />mechanical engineer and university faculty dropout. He throws a<br />lifeline to Kelly, telling her not to worry too much about theories<br />after she endures yet another diatribe of doom from Ian. She is a ray<br />of hope that Michael Crichton leaves with us . . . a person who may<br />stay in the mainstream and help bring forth another<br />generation.<br />Thus, the mystery is solved.  Extinction of humans is<br />the dastardly deed. Behavior . . . of humans . . .  is the weapon<br />used.tims never know what hit them, or ate them, as the case may be. People who think - the opposite sex is one of God's mistakes, spinning theories is more important than more earthy activities, culture isn't important, or honesty is for fools - fade into our societal backgrounds, waiting to pounce on victims who don't have a clue.<br />Pitted against this array of chameleons is Doc Thorne, mechanical engineer and university faculty dropout. He throws a lifeline to Kelly, telling her not to worry too much about theories after she endures yet another diatribe of doom from Ian. She is a ray of hope that Michael Crichton leaves with us . . . a person who may stay in the mainstream and help bring forth another generation. <br />Thus, the mystery is solved.  Extinction of humans is the dastardly deed. Behavior . . . of humans . . .  is the weapon used.	2000-10-12
US	50739900	RUPFWXU4SNY4	0345370775	392304217	Jurassic Park: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Kudos to Messrs. Crichton and Spielberg	Their talents to entertain and enlighten are richly rewarded, as well they should be. In a world where boredom is the biggest problem humans face, these may be the supreme contributions.<br />Now, to business<br />We have a story told first by Michael Crichton in book form, then by Steven Spielberg in motion picture form. The stories are different. Therein lies an opportunity . . . an opportunity to examine differing views of the world. I saw the movie, then bought the home video and viewed it over and over.  Recently, I read the book to get some points for a reading program at my children's school. The book is good, really good, but it differs from the movie. The book is &quot;darker&quot; than the movie, in my opinion. But, the book came first, so shouldn't I discount what the movie did to the story? No. I love my right eye and I love my left eye. Each gives me a slightly different view of the world, but I don't plan to pluck either out. Stereovision is great!<br />What is different in the book and movie? For one thing, Tim and Lex switch ages. For another, Tim keeps his dinosaur expertise, while Lex picks up computer knowledge. A nice touch. One kid having all the smarts is one-sided, bullying if you will. Dr. Sattler was more believable in the movie, in my opinion, playing the huntress homing in on a father for her future children. Ian Malcolm showed he thought about something other than Chaos Theory. In fact, Ian should have spent even more time on sex and less on pitting his pitifully small theories against the vastness of Nature.<br />John Hammond, the entrepreneur, got quite a drubbing in the book. Maybe they made him a bit too cuddly in the movie, but some corrective was needed. John, the dreamer, the monomaniac with a mission, is believable when he pursues his vision in spite of setbacks and nay-saying. Could what he attempted eventually come to pass? Sure. Kitty Hawk (1903) to Concorde (1970); &quot;20,000 Leagues Under The Sea&quot; (1870) to Nautilus (1954); &quot;From the Earth to the Moon&quot; (1865) to the Moon landing (1969). One hundred years is a long time. &quot;Jurassic Park&quot; (1990) to &quot;Cenozoic Park (20--)&quot; is only a matter of time.<br />Hammond's attempts to control populations by having only females came unglued when some females turned into males (read the book for details). Nature will not be denied, Ian said. Sex will out. Females started laying fertile eggs which hatched into young dinosaurs, thus breaking the population controls imposed by the designers. . . . Questions nag at the edge of consciousness: If today's controllers succeed in mashing all Races into one, will Nature eventually find a way for Races to re-emerge? Will Nature not be denied and Race will out?	2000-09-26
US	50739900	R2A0F2SBD3X3JF	0029089255	206206443	Sick Societies: Challenging the Myth of Primitive Harmony	Books	4	10	22	N	N	Anthropology  and Science . . . shall the twain never meet?	Anthropologist Robert Edgerton would dearly love to be scientific. To advance knowledge, he says, scholars need better questions to pursue in whatever fashion they believe will lead to falsifiable answers. Of course,  terms must be clarified.  So far, so good. But, his home is in  Anthropology, so he must kowtow to the Gods who reign there. Dr. Edgerton  proposes evaluating other cultures, something that challenges the  prevailing doctrine of cultural relativism, which states that no society is  better than any other. But, he made his bow to that God previously by  stating that cultural relativism has helped counter  &quot;ethnocentrism&quot; and &quot;racism.&quot;  He tiptoes gingerly  around these terms throughout the book, knowing that one false step and he  will be turned into a Demon by those who set prevailing doctrine.  <br />Dr.  Edgerton draws from a wide range of studies of primitive . . . (oops! make  that 'other') societies. He lists the murders, rapes, male domination, and  other niceties of societies with a few hundred members tucked in  out-of-the-way places. He would love to label these practices maladaptive,  but the correct view is that all practices in other societies are adaptive,  hence are useful to the members of those societies. That is another God he  must placate. <br />He is firmly in the evolutionary camp. No trying to fit  everything into the last few thousand years. No spontaneous generation,  either. However, he doesn't try to explain the emergence of various races  and ethnic groups, their competition, and the survival of some and the  extinction of others. Of course, if races and ethnic groups don't exist,  there's nothing to explain. Yet, &quot;human evolution has involved  competition that at times has been so violent that some human groups have  failed to survive.&quot; He states, &quot;Much of the burden of evaluating  human adaptation must fall to anthropologists.&quot; So, why don't  anthropologists come up with something better than cultural relativism?  Maybe because it is adaptive for some of them?<br />By keeping his eyes on the  Gods he must not offend, Dr. Edgerton misses opportunities to pick up  smoother pebbles and prettier shells along Newton's ocean of truth. For  example, he remarks several times that people in other (I still think  'primitive') societies wear few clothes. Could there be any connection  between wearing clothes and civilization? At other times, he mentions that  people in simple societies are bored. Could boredom and primitives'  propensity to mutilate and kill other humans and animals be related?<br />If  you love peeking into others' lives and being titillated by their bizarre  behavior, this book is for you. If you're looking for cures for sick  societies, then search on. Cures may be as simple as dressing the natives  and teaching them non-lethal games, but one doesn't impress Olympian peers  with such childish suggestions.	2000-07-29
US	50739900	R39UAFMA0F8ZMI	0060976918	923226445	Alien Nation: Common Sense About America's Immigration Disaster	Books	5	26	31	N	N	Excellent analysis of immigration policy.	Peter Brimelow would be a latter day Thomas Paine, whose &quot;Common Sense&quot; helped Colonists decide to revolt against England. Peter's mission is to get us to use 'common sense' in our immigration policies. He  contends that a Nation must have a dominant core of common beliefs, ethics,  and manners. He quotes Thomas Sowell concerning groups, &quot;The most  obvious fact about the history of racial and ethnic groups is how different  they have been - and still are . . . .&quot; In addition, Sowell has shown  that these ethnic differences persist even after generations of living  together under common institutions, as in the United States. <br />Mr.  Brimelow pinpoints the 1965 Immigration Act as the source of many of our  current problems, when its framers set out to bring in people from racial  and ethnic groups other than White and European. He claims that we have  lost control of our borders, that we don't know how may people come in,  legally or illegally. And, not enough time is allowed for these various  ethnics to be &quot;melted into our pot.&quot; Of course, many people are  happy with this situation, because it builds Rainbow Coalitions. However,  Rainbow Coalitions have no dominant core of common beliefs, ethics, or  anything else.<br />Peter covers a vast range of topics: statistics of various  immigrations of the past, immigration policies of other countries, Garrett  Hardin's &quot;The Tragedy of the Commons,&quot; and so on. I enjoy his  sassy style and his taboo trampling (you know, we don't discuss . . .  r-a-c-e . . . in America). He has the facts, he knows the people, and he  understands their dearest arguments. He lists references, so look some of  this stuff up for yourself. <br />I do want to pick one small point, however.  He states: &quot;Agribusiness lobbies for cheap immigrant labor rather than  mechanize itself.&quot; This may be true some of the time, but not always.  During the mid-1960's, growers financed research at the Universityof  California at Davis to develop a tomato harvester. Politicians and Labor  teamed up to discontinue the bracero program, but mechanical harvesters  were ready when the 'guest workers' were pulled from the fields. Shortly  after the introduction of the tomato harvester, the world-famous   mechanization program at UC Davis was shut down and dismantled. The  politicians did not intend to have their labor-friendly policies thwarted  again. Just to make sure, they reached out to the Agricultural Research  Service in the U. S. Department of Agriculture and dismantled all field  mechanization programs there, too. On February 23, 2000, Agricultural  Mechanization was listed among the 20 Greatest Engineering Achievements of  the 20th Century by the National Academy of Engineering, so some folks must  have been doing something right. In fact, American growers mechanized in  cooperation with the government . . . until the 1960's.<br />This point  notwithstanding, I enjoyed the book immensely and recommend it  wholeheartedly.	2000-07-24
US	50739900	R157GMNLMT3DH6	1892796007	213929315	My Awakening: A Path to Racial Understanding	Books	5	64	75	N	N	Here I Stand . . .	. . . I can do no other. Thus spake Martin Luther half a millenium ago. Now, David Duke makes his stand. He can do no other. Even his enemies should respect him for that. <br />The Forward is one of the strong points of  this book. Written by Glayde Whitney, it details the philosophy of Thales  of Miletus that the real world should be observed and analyzed, and that  free discussion of what is found be allowed. The Forward contains a  well-written abstract of the book.  Its brevity helps ideas stand out  clearly.  For example, we smugly moralize that people in Communist  countries only hear what their rulers want them to hear. We look past the  beam in our own eye. Inscribed on the Jefferson Monument is: &quot;Nothing  is more certainly written in the book of fate than that these people  [Negroes] are to be free.&quot; What is missing is the rest of the  quotation: &quot;Nor is it less certain that the two races, equally free,  cannot live in the same government.&quot; My, my.<br />I have known for  decades that there isn't a dime's worth of difference among the major news  magazines, newspapers, and TV news programs. I have watched the steady  erosion of decency in radio and TV programs, and the movies. Rumors  abounded, but nothing substantial was offered until this book. Once someone  spells it out, as David Duke has done, it all makes sense. I remain leery,  though, and retain Andy Groves' attitude, &quot;Only The Paranoid  Survive.&quot;<br />I recommend &quot;My Awakening.&quot; Read it and think.  Then, be prepared to enter the dialogue that will last for decades. No  nation throughout history has solved the problem of how people of various  cultures can live together without one culture trying to destroy the  others. Americans have a unique opportunity to try to solve that problem,  but only if we reject the blender mishmash that we are fed daily.	2000-07-15
US	50739900	R3PBRVXY5SDJ3K	0275957896	923172285	Why Race Matters: Race Differences and What They Mean (Human Evolution, Behavior, and Intelligence)	Books	5	39	44	N	N	Copernicus, Darwin, and . . . Levin?	Have you ever wished you could be in at the start of something really big? Say, stand at the deathbed of Copernicus when he handed over his magnum opus, &quot;De Revolutionibus Orbium Coelestrium?&quot; Or, stroll with  Darwin as he put finishing touches to &quot;On The Origin of Species . . .  ?&quot; Well, now you can. Michael Levin has written &quot;Why Race  Matters&quot; and released it for publication. We have a ringside seat to  controversies that will rival those generated by &quot;Revolutionibus&quot;  and &quot;Origin.&quot; To thoroughly enjoy the action, however, you need  to read the book and keep it handy. Besides, reading the book is an  education in itself.<br />What gave Levin his opportunity was the &quot;race  problem,&quot; which is &quot;the friction produced when two populations  differing in intelligence, emotional intensity, and concern for the future  occupy the same geographical territory.&quot; This was merely an  opportunity, one countless others had. He had the intelligence, though, to  recognize the problem in all of its facets and, more importantly, the  courage to honestly try to solve it. He waded into the taboos that surround  race and put a hurtin' on those profiting from fomenting racial strife. He  meticulously and exhaustively takes apart the evidence on race and presents  us with conclusions sure to inflame. But, so did moving the Earth from the  center of the Universe and throwing humans back into the biological world  with the rest of the animals. <br />I give Michael Levin a 10 for delineating  why race matters. Only a 3 or 4, though, for suggested solutions. This is  as expected. If someone can state a problem clearly, then others can join  in the hunt for solutions. A few flat-earth folks persist, evolutionists  are still hounded in parts of the country, so it should not be surprising  if it takes decades or even centuries to get a full explication of what  Levin suggests. In the meantime, though, all are welcome to join the  discussion.	2000-07-10
US	50739900	R1EMBAEVSGWWLI	1558216359	848609494	Despicable Species (Hc)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Them and Us	Them are starlings, kudzu, and other things that bother us. Millipedes, possums, and flies. Bugs, flies, dinoflagellates. On and on and on. We are all on this earth, we have to live here together, and we can do little  about it. Janet Lembke tells us about these creatures and how they fit into  their places, niches, in the real world. She calls these creatures  despicable because that is how most of us view them. She is a wonderfully  gifted story teller, getting her material from a myriad of sources, and  weaving it into enchanting tales. She wears no political, religious, or  cultural collars, so she is free to think uncommon thoughts, thoughts that  often draw the attention of cultural watchdogs.  Possibly what holds them  at bay is her wonderful sense of humor and lack of self-importance.<br />For  example, she believes that the extinction of a species will not bring the  whole living world crashing down. She believes, along with Eric Hoffer,  that Man is an unfinished business. She believes that we need the world far  more than the world needs us. She sees biodiversity as essential to  humanity. But, there are so many rich thoughts in this book that the only  way to really appreciate is to read it all the way through, then re-read it  from time to time. Highly recommended.<br />Oh, yes - humans are one of the  despicable species.	2000-06-21
US	50739900	R3B4KNL8GGEZEG	0684827468	120026029	Completing the Revolution: A Vision for Victory in 2000	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Trojan Horse	...My uneasiness with this book started in the Preface. After 42 years as a registered Republican, Mr. Novak registered as a Democrat.  Why would a Democrat write a book telling Republicans how to win? His answer: he is a concerned citizen.<br />He describes Republicans as passive, playing not to lose, failing to keep promises, nonconfrontational, intimidated, and frightened, with a leadership that is politically moribund. He suggests that Republicans choose a leadership style from one of two politicians of a century ago . . . Teddy Roosevelt or Tom Reed, affectionately known as &quot;Czar Reed&quot; when he exercised dictatorial rule as Speaker of the House of Representatives in the 1890s. Which does Mr. Novak prefer? Yes, that's right, but read the book to confirm your guess. <br />He lists ten things Republicans can do to win. One item he claims is popular with voters is term limits . . . three two-year terms maximum for House members. He suggests that Republicans adopt limits even if Democrats don't. So, the House could have Republicans with an average of three years experience, and the Democrats an average of fifteen. Sounds fair.<br />He suggests &quot;Reaching out to women and minorities without compromising the message.&quot; The American electorate divides 40% pro-choice, 40% pro-life, and 20% in the middle. George W. Bush, the presumed Republican presidential candidate, is pro-life. To reach out, considering the divided electorate, one might expect that a vice-presidential running mate would be pro-choice. No way, says Novak.  Evidently, &quot;reaching out and not compromising the message&quot; means - let's cooperate; do it my way.<br />My advice to Republicans? Look this gift horse in the mouth, then send it back to its owner.	2000-06-14
US	50739900	RB7JIHAADJ6T4	0393048314	483650773	Defending the Cavewoman: And Other Tales of Evolutionary Neurology	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Interesting	...In this book, Dr. Klawans is meticulous, displays a wide range of knowledge, and is beautifully logical. His details of Parkinsonism are so well laid out that anyone who shakes or teeters occasionally may be tempted to self-diagnose.  Detailed case histories are lightened by his continuing commentary on his love for classical music. He occasionally digresses into baseball and Italian pastries, but always ties his stories closely to his major theme of treating brain disorders. <br />Dr. Klawans had a great interest in evolution and the ascent of Man. He believes that &quot;the ascent of Man, of Homo Sapiens, was due entirely to the females of our species.&quot; He discusses scientific theories that suggest all humans derive from an Eve who lived about 200,000 years ago. <br />Neanderthals and modern humans co-existed for thousands of years, but no traces of Neanderthals are found in people today. Neanderthals were bigger and stronger, with bigger brains, but were dumber. Dr. Klawans states: &quot;The evolutionary race goes not to the strong, but to the more adaptable, the more wily, the more juvenilized.&quot;<br />One reason I chose to read &quot;Defending the Cavewoman&quot; was because of a book I read twenty years ago . . . &quot;The Lives of a Cell&quot; by Lewis Thomas. I picked it out of my bookcase and re-read several passages. I still enjoy Dr. Thomas' writing immensely.	2000-06-09
US	50739900	R18XJHFY9VCK99	0316316962	226933679	The Tipping Point: How Little Things Can Make a Big Difference	Books	4	15	20	N	N	Profound or Fluff?	On the surface, this book is pop science for newspaper readers. It has an adequate index and many source notes, but few will mistake it for a refereed paper in a scientific journal. It is pleasant to read,  entertaining, and doesn't make great mental demands on the reader. However,  the reader might be surprised that the author, in describing the large  effects of small changes, didn't mention Edward Lorenz' work on the  Butterfly Effect. Mr. Gladwell's relating the results of folding a paper  fifty times is not surprising to someone who has heard the story of the  beggar who was granted one wish by a Prince: &quot;Please, sir, give me a  grain of rice on the first square of a chess board. Then, double the amount  on each succeeding square.&quot;  <br />Dismissing The Tipping Point out of  hand, though, might be . . . mind you, might be . . .  a huge mistake.  Suspension of judgement is usually needed to discover something really,  really big. Consider, the Earth moving. Could anything be sillier? Or,  riding a light beam. Loony stuff, if ever there was. Yet Galileo and  Einstein used these ideas to gain eternal fame. Is it possible that fixing  broken windows could severely reduce crime? Can humans who are Connectors  and ideas that are Sticky really have tremendous consequences for a nation?  I don't know.<br />But, I have an idea. Fortune (June 12, 2000) had an article  on crime in Russia, &quot;Capitalism In a Cold Climate&quot;. Big crime . .  . Bad crime . . . Overwhelming crime! What better test for the ideas in  this book than to apply them in Russia. Is suggesting attacking such big  problems with seemingly flimsy ideas really making fun of the ideas? Not at  all. Atomic bomb explosions started as ideas scratched on paper. Space  craft launches started as ideas scratched on paper. Science advances by  someone proposing ideas, then someone testing them. Mr. Gladwell has  proposed several ideas.  Let's test them to see if they are profound or  fluff.	2000-06-02
US	50739900	R1KPNHX983JPWH	0801011957	381708174	Time for Truth: Living Free in a World of Lies, Hype & Spin (Hourglass Books)	Books	3	6	34	N	N	If you would consult an astrologer . . .	The subtitle caught my eye . . .  living free in a world of lies, hype &amp; spin. Who wouldn't like to? Leafing through the book, I caught sight of the names Bill Clinton and O.J. Simpson. I hadn't heard of the author,  but the book was short, so why not give it a try? I took it home and began  to read. It didn't take long for me to realize that  &quot;Time for  Truth&quot; was written by and for evangelicals. That will teach me to be  more careful in the future. But, I had the book, and I would like to live  in a world free of lies, hype &amp; spin, so I decided to read it. <br />In a  nutshell, this book views the world through Christian-Judaic eyes.   Buddhists and Hindus aren't quite up at the same level. And, God is a him.  We can solve our problems by living in the truth. Dr. Guinness tells us,  &quot;God is truth just as God is love.&quot; Normally, I stay strictly  away from others' belief systems. They trap truth seekers just as tar pits  trap thirsty animals. But this author practically begged me to read his  book, with the photo of tanks on the front, the blurbs by political types  on the back, and . . . that subtitle: living free in a world of lies, hype  &amp; spin.<br />The Church had a great opportunity to counter lies, hype and  spin during its centuries of overwhelming dominance. Instead, it  established the Inquisition, incited the Reformation, and harried students  of the natural world, Galileo among them. If you would consult an  astrologer about the nature of the heavens, or an alchemist about the  nature of matter, then by all means consult this book about ways to solve  our social problems. <br />The author is a good writer, however.	2000-05-29
US	50739900	R2A0H4NDBF5G2Q	0029303303	817016984	Inside American Education	Books	5	163	167	N	N	Do your kids a favor - read this book!	Thomas Sowell discusses American Education from pre-K's to graduate schools; the students, faculties, and administrations; and the financing, politics, and self-serving policies thereof. In 51 pages of notes, he supplies 1050 individual citations supporting his views and conclusions. His 11-page Index reveals some major themes by the number of pages on which each is discussed -- Brainwashing and Psychological Conditioning (50 pp.), Harvard (52 pp.), and Political Correctness (55 pp.). <br />Dr. Sowell grew up in Harlem during the 1930's and 1940's. He graduated from Harvard College (A.B. magna cum laude 1958), Columbia University (A.M. 1959), and University of Chicago (Ph.D. 1968) - all degrees being in Economics. With the quality of his education and particularly with his race, given the politics of the past half century, one might expect him to end up as a prominent bauble on some elitist university's faculty tree. Such was not the case. He displayed much too much independence of mind to be safely tucked into anybody's pocket. We learn on page 141 that as early as 1970, \\"a black professor named Thomas Sowell\\" warned against programs become too great to disguise, or to hide under euphemisms and apologetics, the conclusion that will be drawn in many quarters will not be that these were half-baked schemes, but that black people just don't have it.\\" Dr. Sowell moved through organizations (U.S. Dept. of Labor, AT&T, The Urban Institute) and universities (Howard, Cornell, Brandeis, UCLA, Amherst). Since 1980, he has been a Fellow at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University, California. <br />The reason for looking at Dr. Sowell and his background so carefully is that he makes many bold statements in his book, Inside American Education. \\"The brutal reality is that the American system of education is bankrupt.\\" \\" . . . the intellectual calibre of public school teachers in the United States is shockingly low.\\" \\"Parents who send their children to school with instructionsto respect and obey their teachers may be surprised to discover how often these children are sent back home conditioned to disrespect and disobey their parents.\\" Should we listen to a person who says such things? I believe so. Dr. Sowell has been educated in our best schools back before it was de rigueur to have quotas. He has shown an independence of mind to withstand the blandishments of comfortable conformity. He has operated at the top intellectual realms of our country.  He has the credentials to make the statements that he does. To decide for yourself, you will have to read the book for his detailed arguments in their favor, because they are far too extensive to cover in a review. <br />This book may make you paranoid about your children in our schools. You may wish to become more involved with what your children are being taught and who is doing the teaching. You may wish to become a \\"bigger presence\\" in the lives of your children by moving them up in your priorities. Time for panic? No. Any system that can produce a Thomas Sowell and allow him the freedom to speak out must have some very great strengths. But . . . read the book.	2000-01-18
US	50739900	R153LX4DVC9Z0Q	0671726889	538304275	Cuckoo's Egg	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Real Research	&quot;When you're doing real research, you never know what it'll cost, how much time it'll take, or what you'll find.&quot; So advised physicist Luis Alvarez, Nobel Laureate, in response to Clifford Stoll's lament about lack  of support for solving a seemingly insignificant problem - a missing 75  cents in thousands of dollars of computer billings at the Lawrence Berkeley  Laboratory (LBL). Dr. Alvarez might have added that life has a wry sense of  humor. Dr. Stoll, astronomer looking at the vast reaches of space, ran out  of grant money and was transferred to the computer center in the basement  of LBL. He was given the momentous task of tracking down a missing 75 cents  in the department's computer billings. How trivial can you get? But Dr.  Stoll tracked that missing sum, oblivious to the time it would take, the  money it would cost, or where it would lead. And in so doing, he probably  made a far bigger name for himself than if he had continued his  astronomical studies uninterrupted for the rest of his life. <br />By now,  many people know that Clifford Stoll caught a hacker breaking into computer  systems, that networks of computers are intimidating entities, and that  good and evil lurk even in scientific settings. Larger issues may not stand  out so well, though, such as the nature of research . . . real research. Oh  sure, we spend billions of dollars on research, but most of it is safe  research: we know what it will cost (the amount of the grant), how long it  will take (till the end of the grant), and what we will find (enough  material that can be arranged in some boilerplate format to satisfy peers  we have managed to befriend). Real research is not safe research, so is not  practiced by most researchers. <br />For a condensed view of real research,  read pages 86 and 87 of the hardback edition. For an extended explication,  read the whole book. Be aware, however, false trails abound as to what is  required to do real research. Growing long hair, riding bicycles, and  raising your own vegetables are not requirements. Leftist politics,  listening to the Grateful Dead, and being at Berkeley are also not  requirements. No, the requirements are those stated succinctly by Luis  Alvarez. All else is tinsel. <br />Finally, I thank Clifford Stoll for taking  such meticulous notes. Without them, he probably would not have solved his  &quot;case,&quot; but more importantly, he couldn't have written &quot;The  Cuckoo's Egg.&quot;	2000-01-14
US	50739900	R3PE5AQH65QIIX	0609601415	760042236	Leonardo's Mountain of Clams and the Diet of Worms: Essays on Natural History	Books	5	5	15	N	N	NOMA	Non-Overlapping MAgisteria. Say what? Sorry, let me back up. I'm anxious to get to the crux of the book, but let's slow down. Stephen Jay Gould was born to immigrant Jewish parents in New York City and spent his childhood  there. I do not recall any mention of brothers or sisters, nor later, of  wife and children. He is listed on the dust jacket as Alexander Agassiz  professor of zoology and professor of geology at Harvard and the Vincent  Astor visiting professor of biology at New York University. For years, he  wrote essays and now collects several of them into this book. He might be  called a zoologist, geologist, paleontologist, and evolutionist. I think of  him mainly as the latter. Who you going to call when you meet a  creationist? Why, Dr. Gould, that's who.<br />Stephen Gould spreads before us  such a feast of information - ideas, thoughts, and insights - that not  everyone will be interested in every topic he discusses. For myself, I can  do without root-heads, but I am very interested in his comments on science,  religion, and human evolution. Science is hinted at in the title by  &quot;Leonardo's Mountain of Clams,&quot; religion by &quot;The Diet of  Worms,&quot; but one must look inside the book to find evolution.  <br />Science and religion have competed for centuries for the minds and  souls(?) of humans. At one time, religion was so dominant that it could  make the most renowned scientists bow down and recant everything they  believed. About this, Will Durant wrote in The Reformation, &quot;A supreme  and unchallengeable faith is a deadly enemy to the human mind.&quot;  Religion is implied by the word &quot;faith,&quot; but &quot;science&quot;  could be substituted and the statement would remain true. Science  successfully challenged religion, but now science itself needs to be  challenged. The only realistic contender at this time is religion. Which  brings us back to Non-Overlapping MAgisteria.<br />Magisterium means Teaching  Authority of the (Catholic) Church. Dr. Gould maintains that the Church's  Magisterium extends over questions of moral meaning and value. Science's  Magisterium  extends over the empirical realm - what is the universe made  of (fact) and why does it work this way (theory). He claims that these do  not overlap, hence NOMA. But evolution, particularly human evolution,  presents a problem to this division of the world of knowledge. Science  generally considers humans as an extension of the biological world. The  Church considers humans as special creations outside the hurly-burly of the  biological world. What to do? The Church will accept human evolution if  Science will accept that souls are immediately created by God. Stephen Jay  Gould, self-styled Jewish agnostic, believes that evolution is true and  entirely compatible with Christian belief.<br />This  seems too  self-congratulatory to me. We as humans are part of the biological world,  but we as humans get a soul breathed into us. What about animals? What  about creatures that sacrifice their lives for us? Are they to be left out  in the evolutionary rat race while we stand above it? NOMA is a pact  entered into without the consent of the vast numbers of non-humans in the  biological world. Who needs their consent? Well, I guess that is what we  say about slaves, too, isn't it? I'm afraid that if gorillas want a place  at the conference table, they had better learn to communicate, and do so  quickly. Animal rightists? Be patient and persistent - your friends are  going to need your help for a very long time.	2000-01-13
US	50739900	R19TYZLV398I95	0385489757	489051170	High Tech Heretic: Why Computers Don't Belong in the Classroom and Other Reflections by a Computer Contrarian	Books	2	17	43	N	N	Please stop me before I write another book	This is the message I wait for from Clifford Stoll. He started brilliantly with &quot;The Cuckoo's Egg,&quot; then slid into &quot;Silicon Snake Oil,&quot; and now blasts the industry that succored him for so long in  &quot;High Tech Heretic.&quot; Talk about biting the hand that feeds you.  And besides, Heretic is not how I would describe Dr. Stoll. Copernicus and  Galileo were Heretics. They were against the thinking of their times, but  instead of whining, they offered constructive alternatives. What does Dr.  Stoll offer? More whining. I think Obstructionist or Luddite would be more  appropriate.<br />Is there anything good about the book? Yes. He states quite  correctly that a scientist needs to know that pi is a transcendental  number, not just 3.1416. A scientist needs a well-trained, vigorous mind  muscled by long periods of hard learning. Learning shouldn't be fun. It  takes work and discipline and commitment and responsibility. If you want  marathon runners, you shouldn't have too many cars around. Likewise, if you  want learned people, you shouldn't have too many computers around.<br />I  understand his next book will be titled &quot;Mid Tech Heretic&quot; where  he blasts printing presses for ruining the writing skills of monks hand  transcribing manuscripts. After some publisher pushes that onto someone's  best seller list, Dr. Stoll will bring out his Magnum Opus - &quot;Low Tech  Heretic&quot; - where he reveals that quills and papyri ruined the  camaraderie of the campfire by putting tellers of tribal histories out of  work.<br />But, there is still time. If Dr. Stoll will send that &quot;Please  stop me&quot; message, someone might help him find a productive path to  fame. Einstein, dissatisfied with Newton's rigid space and time, proposed  Relativity in papers early in the 1900's. As a result, he was named  Man-Of-The-20th Century by Time magazine. A problem crying out for solution  is how all of us can keep from getting trampled by the ElectronicHerd, an  entity described by Thomas Friedman in &quot;The Lexus and The Olive  Tree.&quot; It may take a revolution similar to the PC vs. the Mainframe,  but Dr. Stoll has the intellectual firepower to carry it off. So, which  shall it be - &quot;Mid Tech Heretic&quot; or Man-Of-The-21st Century?	2000-01-07
US	50739900	R34Y31TU2JFGHR	0374192030	475272008	The Lexus and the Olive Tree	Books	5	17	34	N	N	Einstein fled Westward, not Eastward	Comfortably ensconced in his thousands-of-years old Jewish culture, New York Times Foreign Affairs Columnist Thomas Friedman travels the world meeting important people. He tells us about his journeys in this book, the  title of which derives from his visiting a Lexus robotic assembly line,  then soon after, reading about Israelis and Palestinians fighting over  olive trees. These events triggered in Mr. Friedman's mind a blinding  revelation. People are either rushing pell-mell into the future and  embracing new technologies (Lexus), or clinging to the past with its  traditions and old ways of doing things (the olive tree). <br />People who  move forward confidently into the future are Globalists. Those who hang  back fearfully are Glocalists. Sound confusing? Think  Capitalism-Capitalist. Ok? Globalism-Globalist. Glocalism-Glocalist. Get  it? Easy, once you think of it that way. But wait . . . what about  Globalution?  Sorry, I haven't room to explain everything. You just have to  get the book and read it yourself.<br />Mr. Friedman writes clearly and tries  his best to help readers understand complex issues.  He draws repeatedly on  his culture, citing stories from the Jewish Bible and listing past and  present events in the Middle East. I offer Mr. Friedman yet another example  to help his readers - think of Globalism as Goliath and Glocalism as David.  Please understand, Globalism is very, very big. It reaches into every crook  and cranny in our lives. To get the proper perspective, think of Communism.  In fact, the similarity of Globalism and Communism may have been in the  author's mind when he played off Das Kapital to get DOScapital. Could  Thomas Friedman be thinking, just as Karl Marx brought Communism to the  world during the past century, he will bring Globalism to the world during  this century? Merely a matter of replacing the Dictatorship of the  Proletariat with the Dictatorship of the Electronic Herd.<br />Just one  question, Mr. Friedman. When Einstein fled Nazi Germany, he turned to the  many local governments in the West, not to the global government much  closer in the East. Where would Einstein flee now to avoid being trampled  by the Electronic Herd?<br />But, that's enough heavy lifting for now. This  olive-tree-hugging Anglo is driving his Ford pickup into town, ordering a  pastrami-on-rye sandwich and Corona beer, then relaxing with a little  poetry . . . Here with a Loaf of Bread beneath the Bough, A Flask of Wine,  a Book of Verse-and Thou Beside me singing in the Wilderness- And  Wilderness is Paradise enow.  (Thanks Omar and Ed)	2000-01-03
US	50739900	R2NDMLN46Q5D04	0060931043	547841085	A Dream Deferred: The Second Betrayal of Black Freedom in America	Books	1	19	67	N	N	La La Land	To confirm Shelby Steele's citizenship in La La Land, turn to page 184 and read, &quot;. . . in opting for integration (which Steele sees as our salvation), a citizen denies his or her impulse to use our most arbitrary  characteristics - race, ethnicity, gender, sexual preference - as the basis  for identity.&quot; Arbitrary? Really? And again, &quot;Integration . . .  is a fundamental absence of arbitrary barriers to freedom.&quot; Someone  from another Land once said, &quot;Freedom is what you have left when you  have nothing else.&quot; So, I guess if you give up your race, ethnicity,  gender, and sexual preference, then you would have nothing else. If that is  what Freedom is, then I don't want it . . .and I don't think Steele does  either, if he stops to think about it. But, then, thinking is not Steele's  strong suite.<br />If you insist on reading this book, please be warned. After  reading &quot;America's racial shame&quot; and &quot;America's shameful  past&quot; (read White for America) for the hundredth time, you may be  tempted to shout at the author, &quot;Hey, wait a minute! How about some  equal time? How about some Africa's shame (read Black for Africa)? If  redemptive liberalism is so bad, try finding the descendents of the Black  Tribal Chiefs who sold your ancestors down the river. Get some redemption  from them. All you'll get is your body handed to you, one part at a  time.&quot; But he wouldn't hear you . . . even if he sat next to you in  the same room.<br />I looked in vain for good words such as, &quot;excellence,  sacrifice, discipline,&quot; but they are as scarce in this book as virgins  in a whorehouse. Instead, we have the words of an Ivy League-trained black  woman journalist: &quot;I don't think we can tell the story of our  victimization enough.&quot; Further, &quot;Well, obviously we have a  different time schedule as to when white people ought to be let off the  hook.&quot; Surely they couldn't be using a code word for bell hooks of  &quot;killing rage&quot; fame? bell hooks who fantasizes about knifing the  white male in the airline seat next to her? Surely not her. Must be some  other hooks that whites are to be kept on.<br />The First Betrayal of Black  Freedom in America was when Whites enslaved Blacks. The Second Betrayal was  when Whites responded to the Civil Rights Movement by becoming redemptive  liberals. You'll see that phrase a lot throughout the book. You will also  see words that Steele needs to make his arguments: Indirection,  Ulteriorality, Aresponsible.<br />I know comparisons are odious, but I'll  make one anyway. Compared with Thomas Sowell, Shelby Steele is a midget. I  can learn something every time I read Sowell. I get Indexes and  Bibliographies and Notes. I get a world wide view of problems and attempted  solutions through time from a widely read and traveled professional. I get  well integrated arguments and the feeling that solutions can be found that  actually fit in this world. From Steele, I get the impression of a person  caught in a time warp. Sometime when he was walking the picket line during  the Civil Rights Movement, he walked through a rip in the Time Continuum.  He is still walking that picket line - around and around and around holding  a sign, watching his own feet fall, feeling the days go by like years.	1999-12-22
US	50739900	R30658V1NMX83J	0684864622	999961074	The Quest for Cosmic Justice	Books	5	59	61	N	N	Play Fairly versus Win Regardless	&quot;You can't change the rules in the middle of the game.&quot; &quot;Hey, you just made that rule up.&quot; &quot;You're cheating!&quot; Kids on a playground arguing? No, adults in our judicial and political  systems. In the first section of  The Quest for Cosmic Justice, Thomas  Sowell takes us on a tour of the world through time to display examples of  childlike behavior in adults. He discusses two types of justice.  Traditional justice is process-based: make up the rules before the game,  everybody plays by the same rules, and the end result is left open. Cosmic  justice is ends-oriented: have rules, but fiddle with them so that the game  ends as someone wants it to.<br />In the second section of the book, Dr.  Sowell examines equality, a much bandied-about word, but slippery in the  extreme as to what it means. If we have learned anything from science it is  that defining terms is crucial to progress - unless one is pursuing cosmic  justice, of course. He talks of &quot;. . . politically imposed equality .  . . poisonous relations between the races and sexes . . . internal  dissensions and demoralization have played a crucial role in the decline  and fall of other civilizations, and there is no reason to expect this one  to be immune.&quot;<br />Visions, their necessity for humans to operate and  the things that can go wrong with them, are treated in the third section.  The final section concerns the quiet repeal of the American Revolution.  Comparisons of the French Revolution to the American Revolution were very  informative, at least to me. I remembered an awful lot of heads got chopped  off in France, but hadn't made the connection between that and the  philosophy underlying the French Revolution. &quot;At the national level as  well, the 'Committee of Public Safety' under Robespierre ruled by decrees  that could over-ride any laws.&quot;<br />Now, let's see . . . are Executive  Orders when Congress doesn't do what the President wants equivalent to  Robespierre's decrees that led to the guillotine?	1999-12-19
US	50739900	R3BIX4XB6DTLGB	0156005832	388617595	Out of America: A Black Man Confronts Africa	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Color Blind . . . or Celebrate our Diversity?	Two things I don't want to do: climb Mt. Everest and visit Africa. National Geographic helps me with Everest and Keith Richburg with Africa. His journal gives details that would have caused me to turn tail and run  the first day. I congratulate him for staying the course. <br />As he said  near the end of his book, &quot;'Out of America' is first and foremost a  journalist's book. It was never intended as an academic tome or a work of  political science.&quot; He worked for the Washington Post and sent news  dispatches back of what he saw. But, 'news' without a human element would  be like a grocery list - not exactly something that would sell newspapers.  The author bends over backward, even does painful contortions, to be fair  and unbiased. His main purpose is to report, and secondly to find himself  and where he belongs in human societies. We shouldn't expect him to solve  Africa's problems anymore than we would expect a reporter covering the AIDS  epidemic to solve that problem.<br />He could not resist offering a solution,  however. After lambasting tribalism throughout the book, he suggests a  multiracial, color-blind society as an alternative. I wonder. A sport in  the Old West was to toss the equivalent of a wildcat and a pit bull into a  barrel, slap a lid on, then let them fight to the death. Is throwing Tutsis  and Hutus together the same? We have ample evidence that peoples want to  preserve their races, their cultures, or whatever else is theirs. The Jews  offer a good example. They have resisted assimilation into other cultures  for thousands of years - over and over again paying horrific prices to  maintain their identity.<br />Keith Richburg has removed his masks and spoken  some plain truths. That is the first step to solutions. But, instead of  creating an homogenized society by 'pushing us all into one barrel,' why  not try finding answers to how groups can maintain their cultural prides  and identities, yet work constructively with other groupsdoing the same?  I'm afraid that fleeing tribalism and embracing multiracial color-blindness  will lead to bodies floating down the Mississippi.	1999-12-13
US	50739900	R2HVTYYPZ326WT	0345405374	255507131	Two Nations : Black and White, Separate, Hostile, Unequal	Books	1	15	30	N	N	Check this book out of your public library	White author Andrew Hacker mercilessly flays Whites and shamelessly sucks up to Blacks. 'Two Nations' is for Whites who want to feel guilty about being White, and Blacks who want to blame their troubles on Whites. For  people truly interested in race and culture, I recommend buying Thomas  Sowell's 'Race and Culture' . . . and returning this book to your public  library.	1999-12-10
US	50739900	R1ZNJFB9645VY2	0767901258	528046712	A Hope in the Unseen: An American Odyssey from the Inner City to the Ivy League	Books	3	15	31	N	N	Shame, Shame	A Black reporter for Ebony magazine plucks an aspiring youth from a White slum, plumps him down in elitist Howard University, watches him flounder, then writes a book that wins adulation and praise.<br />Believable? No?  Then  why should we believe - a White reporter for the Wall Street Journal plucks  an aspiring youth from the Black ghetto, plumps him down in elitist Brown  University, watches him flounder, then writes a book that wins adulation  and praise? Why? Because it actually happened. <br />I believe White William  Bennett when he says Virtue counts. I believe Black Thomas Sowell when he  says Culture counts. What I don't believe are the 'messages' I get from  Suskind: Blacks live in dysfunctional families, immersed in crime and  drugs; they don't quite measure up mentally; and, they can't make it  without help from Suskind's kind. Shame on Ron Suskind AND the Wall Street  Journal. <br />If I were a Black parent and wanted to counter these  'messages,' I would tell my children every day - Booker T. Washington  brought honor and fame to Tuskegee Institute, not vice versa.	1999-12-10
US	50739900	R3ACNKAU0DAJ5E	0684838648	7030456	The Redneck Manifesto: How Hillbillies, Hicks, and White Trash Became America's Scapegoats	Books	5	21	27	N	N	Now . . . Have I got your attention!	Author Jim Goad fills his book with words rarely used in daily conversations. In fact, if all of them were removed, we would get a very  thin volume . . . one that would bore us to tears. He wants to get our  attention. He wants to get in our face. And, he succeeds brilliantly.<br />To  think of Goad as a country hick barely able to string two words together  would be a grievous mistake. His thirteen pages of notes at the back of the  book and his six pages of bibliography should be adequate warning to anyone  but the most obtuse that we are dealing with a first rate intellect. He has  a message to deliver - using the redneck image and gutter language is his  way of doing it. If you want to negate the message by getting rid of the  messenger, come prepared . . . but first, put your professional affairs in  order.<br />Where is Jim Goad coming from? Turn to the last chapter and read,  &quot;Some people probably assume I was born a shit-kicker . . . presume  I've never pondered the liberal platform's glorious wisdom . . . Funny  thing, I used to identify myself as a liberal. I used to be one of THEM.  I'm a recovering liberal. That's what makes me such a slippery eel. If I  seem unnecessarily angry with American liberalism, it's because I feel  betrayed by it. I'm mad at white liberalism like I'm mad at Christianity -  because it's a lie that I once believed in.&quot;<br />A person may wander,  seemingly aimlessly, if they get their religion and politics knocked out  from under them. Jim is all over the landscape, lashing out at this and  that and everything else. He seems to be an equal opportunity hater and  basher. But, again, appearances can be deceiving. My view is that,  inadvertently or not, he has taken a necessary first step to get us out of  the messes he relates in such detail. <br />I recently wrote,  &quot;Taking  the masks off is the first step to finding out what causes our social ills  and what might cure them.&quot; Jim Goad has taken our masks off and it's  not a pretty sight, just I suspected. I contended, &quot;Wearing masks is  essential for civilized societies,&quot; but removing them from time to  time is essential for political progress.<br />Medical progress depended on  someone doing the dirty work of dissecting human bodies and finding out  what was really there. Likewise, someone has to dissect our political  bodies and find out what is really there. The first human dissections were  pretty crude and didn't yield that much information, but they progressed  over the centuries to where Andreas Vesalius (1514-1564) could publish  beautifully illustrated drawings of the human body based on meticulous  dissections. Someday, a new 'Vesalius' will give us the beautifully  illustrated drawings of political bodies needed for political progress. But  first, we need the crude drawings, and that is what Jim Goad has provided  in &quot;The Redneck Manifesto.&quot;	1999-12-10
US	50739900	R1SDLYJMBWY68U	189062621X	991819171	Hating Whitey: And Other Progressive Causes	Books	5	40	46	N	N	Recall Jews and Blacks you admire before reading this book.	David Horowitz is a Jewish Republican who used to be a radical, communist, fellow traveler, whatever. His parents were sympathetic to the Soviet Union back when Stalin was bringing workers his version of paradise. As you might  suspect, the path for David was long and tortuous, with many lessons to be  learned about people and the world in which we live. 'Hating Whitey' is an  account of his adventures. <br />Reading Horowitz does for political passions  what reading girlie magazines does for male sexual passions - it arouses.  Where these arousals lead is unclear. Does reading girlie magazines lead to  paying a prostitute for a one night lay, or to forging a lifelong  relationship with a caring woman and having children? Does reading Horowitz  lead to street riots and tearing down neighborhoods, or to forging lasting  relationships among various cultural and racial groups? Only time will  tell.<br />I am not a Jew. I am not a Communist. I am not a Black. So, what  right do I have to comment on this book? Well, I do belong to the White,  male, blue-eyed, Anglo tribe that the characters in this book spend a lot  of time thinking about - and trying to determine what to do with. I figure,  if you are being talked about, you might as well listen in. Who knows, it  just might save your life someday.<br />David Horowitz got pretty deep into  how to change our country for the better. He even became involved in Black  Panther plans to bring enlightenment to us all. Funny thing, though. People  kept getting killed, or beat to a pulp, or raped in ways that didn't do the  victims any good. David, being the quick study that he is, decided after  many years that he had better change directions That is how he became a  Republican. He was Jewish all along, of course. Mr. Horowitz is obviously  at home in academia, easily using such words as . . . elite universities .  . . tenure . . . search committees . . . and so on. He knows many of the  illustrious faculties around the countryand discusses the brightest  luminaries of the Black Universe. <br />While his is not an Odyssey of Homeric  proportions, yet it is more of a journey than many of us will ever take.  So, read the book . . . it's worth it.	1999-12-02
US	50739900	R7M5U02ZRVUE4	0465067972	764075068	Race And Culture: A World View	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Calling 'Johannes Kepler' . . .	Tycho Brahe (1546-1601) made very accurate measurements of the planets' positions over several decades. Johannes Kepler (1571-1630) derived from these data three planetary laws, which formed the basis for Newton's brilliant work, which in turn formed the basis for Einstein's brilliant work. But, it all started with numerous, accurate measurements in the real world.<br />Thomas Sowell also has made numerous, accurate measurements in the real world, but of races, economics, and cultures. He reports his data in this scholarly book (with many Notes and an extensive Index) in eight chapters, dividing the material into Culture as affected by Migration/Conquest, and Race as affected by Economics/Politics/Intelligence/Slavery/History. He takes a World View, so that important parts of problems are not left out. I get the impression that Dr. Sowell actually seeks solutions to racial problems - this book is the groundwork for that search. As such, he is in no hurry to rush out 'solutions' to today's problems . . . he doesn't have to make the 6 o'clock news.<br />The purpose of Race and Culture &quot; . . . is not to offer some grand theory explaining cultural differences. Its goal is to demonstrate the reality, persistence, and consequences of cultural differences . . . .&quot; &quot;This book deliberately offers little in the way of direct policy prescription, for its underlying premise is that what is most needed is an understanding of existing realities, . . . .&quot; &quot;There is seldom a shortage of people willing to draw up blueprints for salvation.  What is important is that such people and those who judge their propositions both understand what they are talking about.&quot;<br />If history repeats itself, a 'Kepler' will step forth, sift through the voluminous material in this book, and then derive succinct laws that will benefit all of us. The position is open to anyone. Be forewarned, though, the real Kepler spent decades at his task. And, there is no guarantee even that there are any laws to derive. As I wrote recently, &quot;Winning the game by making the discovery is open to all who wish to participate. Their willingness to try and fail, to persevere in chasing false leads, and to go forward where no path exists determines the possibility of winning. . . . Luck determines the winner.&quot;	1999-11-28
US	50739900	R2STN49RV39PHX	0688165303	195770438	The Color of Our Future : Our Multiracial Future	Books	5	5	10	N	N	Author goes looking for racism and finds it	This is a book many people should read - either to know their friends or their enemies. <br />Harvard trained author Farai Chideya criss-crosses the country from lily-white towns to . . . well she didn't get to ebony-black  towns, but she could only cover so much in one book. America is, if her  sample is random and accurate, made up of mixed marriage, dysfunctional  families living in poverty and on drugs - with a little physical abuse and  illegitimate residency thrown in. She is fond of parading statistics that  show that whites will no longer be a majority in the mid-2000's. In fact,  if we miscegenate cultures and races enough, we will not be able to tell  who is what, thus all be one big happy family. I wonder. In a recent book,  I wrote, &quot;If various cultures disappear, either through ethnic  cleansing or integration, we will all be the poorer . . . and much more  bored.&quot; If we all become equal parts Black, White, Latino, American  Indian, and Chinese, how many Michael Jordans will we produce?<br />The author  admits there are anomalies: Blacks sitting at their own tables in college  dining halls and Chinese students grouping together into a college  fraternity. But, she didn't see any disparity between her melting pot ideas  and American Indians wanting to teach their children their own native  customs and languages. <br />I wonder what Ms. Chideya would think if she knew  that the most valuable animals on farms are those with long pedigrees, not  those conceived out behind the barn in a midnight frolic. What has that got  to do with humans, you say? Nothing, if you believe that humans are special  creations of God. Somehow, though, I can't see Ms. Chideya as a member of  the Christian Right.	1999-11-27
US	50739900	R2B244MY8F398T	0525943447	945608723	The Good Black	Books	5	10	16	N	N	Doesn't solve race problems, but how many books do?	A Jewish author relates how a Jewish law firm discriminated against a Black employee, lawyer Lawrence Mungin. The author is uniquely qualified to write this story because he is Jewish, thus can write candidly about other  Jews; he is a lawyer, thus can follow the tortuous trail of the  discrimination case; and, he went to Harvard, so he doesn't have to be awed  by a Name. The book is for people who want to feel sorry for themselves, to  feel guilty, or to feel compassionate. No help in solving racial problems,  though, so people making a living off race can feel economically secure.  The author does give us enough details so that we can analyze and  speculate, if we wish.<br />Mr. Mungin set himself up perfectly to be used as  a &quot;vaccine.&quot; I explained in a recent book that if a company  thinks that certain cultural groups will attack it, it can  &quot;vaccinate&quot; itself by bringing in &quot;attenuated&quot; or  &quot;sanitized&quot; members of those groups-people who speak the same  language, have the same manners, dress pretty much alike-in short, people  you feel &quot;comfortable&quot; with. With the company safely  &quot;vaccinated,&quot; wild strains of these groups find it difficult to  gain entry and cause damage. Larry was made to order- he worked his whole  life to fit in. If people would stop riding their racial horses and get  down to honest thinking, then they might start to consider what the  critical mass of a minority should be in a company so that minority members  are not merely &quot;vaccines.&quot;	1999-11-25
