US	50736803	R1127SNDLQ0BGN	1572490241	422446378	Law's Alabama Brigade in the War Between the Union and the Confederacy	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Outstanding book about an honorable hard fighting brigade	Gary Laine and Morris Penny have written an outstanding book about Law's Alabama Brigade.  This hard fought brigade fought in some very bloody battles from First Manassas (Bull Run), Sharpsburg (Antietam), Gettysburg, Chickamauga to General Robert E. Lee's surrender at Appomattox Courthouse. Organized in Alabama in 1861, this brigade made up of men from Montgomery to Mobile and every small town, farm, and corner of Alabama.<br />Led by the brilliant yet controversial leader Evander Law, this brigade endured disease, severe weather, struggles within the brigades leadership.  Yet they always answered the call of their superiors in bravery and determination.<br />This brigade was always under the &quot;baptism of fire&quot; in violent and bloody battles.  Every Civil War buff, historian, or enthusiast knows about Law's Brigade at Gettysburg.  Especially the brave 15th Alabama Regiment (part of Law's Brigade&quot; that fought valliently at Gettysburg on Little Round Top on July 2, 1863.  This regiment fought hand to hand against General Joshua Lawrence Chamberlains 20th Maine and nearly turned the tide of the battle of Gettysburg.  Controversy surrounds General Evander Law at Gettysburg and other battles due to accusations of not being at the right place at the right time, as well as his well known anomosity with General James Longstreet.  It is ashame that these two excellent leaders had quarrels with each other at all since they were a vital part of the Army of Northern Virginia.<br />After Gettysburg, Law's Brigade was transferred to the Western Theatre of the Civil War.  Again, Law's Brigade was involved in bloody and violent battles such as Chickamauga, The Wilderness, Spotsylvania, Cold Harbor, and the sieges of Richmond and Petersberg, which ultimately led the brigade back to Virginia and General Lee's surrender.<br />The author's not only tell about the battles that Law's Brigade played a role in, they describe the &quot;ordinary&quot; soldiers and officers that were in the brigade.  Camp life, everyday duty, and friendships and leaderships struggles are also told in a clearly written manner that make this book an interesting and important read to anyone who is interested in learning more about a Confederate Brigade.<br />I highly recommend this book to any serious Civil War enthusiast who wants to know more about a valiant brigade who fought in many major battles of the Civil War.  Even General Lee commented about the bravery of Law's Brigade, and that is high praise indeed.<br />Highly Recommended!at were in the brigade.  Camp life, everyday duty, and friendships and leaderships struggles are also told in a clearly written manner that make this book an interesting and important read to anyone who is interested in learning more about a Confederate Brigade.<br />I highly recommend this book to any serious Civil War enthusiast who wants to know more about a valiant brigade who fought in many major battles of the Civil War.  Even General Lee commented about the bravery of Law's Brigade, and that is high praise indeed.<br />Highly Recommended!	2003-10-11
US	50736803	R10D0N9CYVP3J3	0399151648	583255343	Kate Remembered	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Fascinating glimpse into the life of an extraordinary woman	I admit that I did not know much about the life of Katharine Hepburn.  I always admired her movies and found her to be an attractive woman who always remained out of the public's eye.  A.Scott Berg was fortunate to give her fans and people who wanted to know more about her a glimpse into her \\"everyday\\" life, her thoughts, her memories, and her likes and dislikes.  While reading this book, it made me feel like I was an unseen observer who watched the author and Miss Hepburn carry on conversations ranging from flowers to her unforgetable romance with Spencer Tracy.<br />Miss Hepburn felt quite comfortable talking with the author.  I find it amusing how they first met each other and the conversation that ensued.  I too would be quite nervous in meeting Miss Hepburn.  She was quite intimidating and didn't suffer fools lightly (not that I am one mind you).<br />It seems like Mr. Berg found a connection with Miss Hepburn that most people would envy to have.  She talked openly about her past relationships with the men in her life, such as Howard Hughes, Spencer Tracy, and other famous men.  She also talked about her family, the power brokers in Hollywood (Louis B. Meyer, Samuel Goldwyn to name a few).  Her thoughts about famous actors of the past and those famous today.  All told, I found this very interesting and fascinating because not much is written about this private woman.<br />I got from the book that Miss Hepburn very much missed her friends from Hollywoods \\"Golden Age\\".  She had genuine feelings for people who helped her career and she kept in touch with them throughout the years, but always at an \\"arms distance\\".<br />The most touching is the genuine friendship she had with her assistant Phylis.  It stuck me that these two were \\"sisters\\" who really admired each other.  Miss Hepburn also had a unique relationship with her brother Dick.  She was quite exhaused with him but as she said \\"what can I do?  He's my brother\\".<br />A. Scott Berg gives the reader what Miss Hepburns days were like at Fennwick, at her apartment in New York City.  She enjoyed the routines in her daily life.  I think it is because outside of these routines, her life could of been quite messy due to her popularity.<br />It is sad to see what happened to Miss Hepburn in her final years, however I don't believe the author was being mean spirited or obtrusive when describing the declining health of Miss Hepburn.  He was simply telling what she looked like and what she was thinking.  I don't believe Miss Hepburn would of minded what he wrote, because I think she wanted the author to share what her life was like to those of us who are her fans and those who are interested in her, since she remained out of the public eye for so long.<br />This is an outstanding read and I for one am glad that I read it.  It makes me feel like I know more about Katharine Hepburn and what she was like outside the moviescreen.  She was an outstanding actress, stubborn as a mule, gracious to her loved ones, opinionated to a fault, yet a survivor of tragedy, which made her shine even more, even if she didn't know or understand it.  What a woman!<br />Highly Recommended!s Hepburns days were like at Fennwick, at her apartment in New York City.  She enjoyed the routines in her daily life.  I think it is because outside of these routines, her life could of been quite messy due to her popularity.<br />It is sad to see what happened to Miss Hepburn in her final years, however I don't believe the author was being mean spirited or obtrusive when describing the declining health of Miss Hepburn.  He was simply telling what she looked like and what she was thinking.  I don't believe Miss Hepburn would of minded what he wrote, because I think she wanted the author to share what her life was like to those of us who are her fans and those who are interested in her, since she remained out of the public eye for so long.<br />This is an outstanding read and I for one am glad that I read it.  It makes me feel like I know more about Katharine Hepburn and what she was like outside the moviescreen.  She was an outstanding actress, stubborn as a mule, gracious to her loved ones, opinionated to a fault, yet a survivor of tragedy, which made her shine even more, even if she didn't know or understand it.  What a woman!<br />Highly Recommended!	2003-07-18
US	50736803	R1UCDJH01S4F98	0870448781	996884564	National Geographic Guide to Civil War National Battlefield Parks	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Great pocket companion for the Civil War tourist	This is a neat little guide to those who like to tour Civil War Battlefields.  National Geographic did a good job with the pictures and brief overviews of various important battles of the Civil War.  The book is divided up by states and the battles that were fought in the individual states.  The guidebook is not much into the finite detail, but that is okay, it is not the objective of the guidebook.<br />This makes a nice &quot;companion&quot; to the Civil War enthusiast who wants to know the basic details about individual battlefields.  It should not be limited to those who are visiting the actual battlefields themselves, but also to those &quot;arm chair&quot; historians who would just like to have a brief overview of the important battles of the Civil War.<br />Highly Recommended!	2003-06-21
US	50736803	R11U5HJAE8A2XU	0939631830	541352333	Wasted Valor: The Confederate Dead at Gettysburg	Books	5	14	15	N	N	The tragedy and horror of war	Gregory L. Coco has brought the horror and tragedy of the Civil War to readers in this book.  The Battle of Gettysburg lasted for three days (July 1-3, 1863), yet the battle effected thousands afterwards for decades.  Coco has given account of what happened to the Confederate dead  and mortally woundededwho were not transported after the battle, but were left where they were mortally wounded or killed.  Thousands of soldiers of the Confederacy had no tombstone, marker, or any identification after they were killed.  Most were left in a mass grave, or buried in a farmers field, with no marker.  What a tragedy, yet it was expected after such a tremendous battle.<br />Many families of southern soldiers made the trek up north to claim their loved ones and take them back for burial in the south.  Unfortunately, many families returned to the south empty-handed because they could simply not find where their beloved son, father, or brother were buried.  This was a too common tale on both southern and northern families during the war.<br />Coco describes how southern soldiers were mortally wounded and ultimately buried after the battle.  Most were buried hastily and thus today, their grave location is unknown.<br />This makes the battlefield and the land around it even more hallowed.  It dosen't matter what side of the Civil War a reader of this book is for, we should all be somber and respectful to these brave soldiers of both the North and South who fought and paid the ultimate sacrifice of their beliefs.<br />This book is fascinating, accurate, and articulate and I highly recommend it to anyone who is interested in the Battle of Gettysburg and the Civil War.	2003-06-14
US	50736803	R2BGFH6HSER73M	1572492538	859728537	Gettysburg's Bloody Wheatfield	Books	5	48	50	N	N	Excellent topic about a bloody phase of the battle	Jay Jorgenson has done an outstanding job describing the bloody events of the Wheatfield during the Battle of Gettysburg.  He describes in overview the events leading up to not only the Wheatfield struggle but also the battle itself.<br />In the Wheatfield many brigades from the Confederate and Union Armies were thrust against each other at very close range and thus tragic and bloody events followed.  The Confederate Brigades(mainly the Georgia, South Carolina, Arkansas, and Texas Brigades) fought at close quarter against the Union Brigades (mainly Pennsylvania, Michigan, and New York).  In three long hours Jorgenson describes how lines of companies on both sides were simply decimated  by intense firing of rifles, artillery, and hand-to-hand combat.<br />Jorgenson has made this intense phase of the Battle easy to understand and his maps and visual aids tremendously helps readers gain an understanding of how this struggle for the Wheatfield and beyond developed.<br />Both sides lost a tremendous amount of men, Jorgenson describes how not only dead soldiers filled the wheatfield but also hats, rifles, bayonets, personal items, and gruesomely, body parts of arms, legs, heads, and entrails littered the ground.  This was a very climatic and bloody struggle.  Both sides had tragic loss of men and material.  Yet, the battle waged on all around them.<br />The Battle of Gettysburg was eventually a Union victory, however, the Wheatfield was not a clear victory for either side.  Jorgenson acurately summarizes that the Confederate soldiers who fought and died became a commodity the Confederacy and the Army of Northern Virginia could hardly afford to replace.<br />I highly recommend this book to those who are interested in the Battle of Gettysburg, Civil War Historians and enthusiasts, and those who enjoy a very well written book.	2003-05-07
US	50736803	R16JOCYMBYVWFM	156554840X	591223103	Flags of Civil War Alabama, The (Flags of the Civil War)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	An interesting and valuable book for Civil War Historians	This is one of Glenn Dedmondt's books of Civil War Flags of the Confederacy the others in the series include Civil War Flags of Louisiana, South Carolina, and North Carolina.<br />There are illustrations of the flags that Alabama Regiments flown in battle and in camp.  Stories behind the flags tell of how they were made and presented to the units that fought for the Confederacy.  These stories are interesting and a valuable resource to the Civil War Historian who is interested about individual regiments that fought for the Confederacy.<br />The regiments that fought certainly had a wide variety of flags.  From the basic 1st National Flag and its varieties, to the Army Of Northern Virginia aka \\"The Confederate Battle Flag\\" that units made modifications to as well as quite unique flags that were presented by the Ladies of various towns, all these flags are shown either in illustration or in pictures.  This makes for quite enjoyable and interesting reading.<br />Some of the flags flown met with violent ends.  Some were captured in battle by Union Soldiers.  Other flags were secretly secured by soldiers who would of rather been killed then give up their flags.  Some of these flags that were flown in battle had their color bearers shot while charging the regiment (in some circumstances 3 to 9 color bearers were killed while flying the same flag in battle).  These make interesting and tragic stories that will keep the reader way into the night-time hours looking at the flags and their history.<br />This series is an invaluable tool for the Civil War Researcher/Historian, as well as the \\"arm-chair\\" historian who would like to know more about the Civil War.<br />Highly Recommended!!	2003-04-06
US	50736803	R3CZ9YUZS76422	0679811761	269074457	The Secret of Terror Castle (The Three Investigators #1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent series for young readers who like mystery!	What a great series of books this is.  I remember first reading this series when I was in Fourth Grade in 1974.  I was introduced to the series by going to my grade school library and reading \\"The Mystery of the Talking Skull\\".  I was hooked on the series right there and then.<br />Many years later (2002) I was re-introduced to the series and have been collecting the 1st edition hardbacks of the series that was published in the mid 1960's.  Having the legendary Alfred Hitchcock introduce and become involved in the storylines of these mystery's was a stroke of genius by the contributing authors.  I think it is neat that Hitchcock gave his own personal approval to the series.<br />This first book finds the three teenage investigators trying to solve \\"The Secret of Terror Castle\\"!  Will Jupiter, Bob, and Pete be able to solve the secret without being harmed?  Well, I won't give away any secrets...However, I can tell readers that they will NOT be dissapointed with the storyline and mystery!!<br />HIGHLY Recommended!	2003-04-02
US	50736803	R3SLART56D3M2D	055324650X	578187982	White Indian	Books	5	33	34	N	N	A great tale of Colonial America	This is a fantastic series by Donald Clayton Porter that describes the life of &quot;Renno&quot; the fictional Seneca Warrior that is also a &quot;white&quot; man.  The series begins in the 1670's when Colonial America was beginning to branch out from the American Coastline.<br />Renno, becomes the adopted son of the great &quot;Ghonka&quot;, the main Chief/Warrior of the Iroqouis Confederacy.  Renno grows to become a skillful warrior, leader, and emissary between the Colonial Americans and his people.  Porter may have simplified and added some &quot;tall tales&quot; to this fictional series, however, it does not distract the reader one bit.<br />Renno's adventures, dealings with his Indian family and his relations with the Colonial Americans is interesting and I dare say &quot;quite a page-turning&quot;.  This is the first novel in a large series that tells about Renno's life and the generations after him.<br />The early books are long out of print, however if you ever have an opportunity to find the books, I can tell you that you will not be dissapointed in the least!  This is a series that needs to be re-issued so other fans of historical fiction can enjoy this fine author's tales.<br />Highly recommended!	2003-03-22
US	50736803	RUX5JRABBWHV2	080948854X	987177896	Arms and Equipment of the Union (Echoes of Glory)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An excellent resource of material about the Union Soldier	Since the Civil War ended, the uniforms of the Union Soldiers have been portrayed as basically blue with the gold buttons going down the center.  While this is marginally accurate, the uniforms of the Union Soldiers that fought in the Civil War were actually unique and had various patterns.  In this excellent book, the uniforms are shown in color, and they are quite different, yet the same in general appearance.  It is informative, interesting and enjoyable to view the wide variety of Officer and Enlisted Uniforms that were worn during the Civil War.<br />Also presented in this fine book are the various flags that were flown by regiments in battle.  Flags made by Tiffany's to Women from throughout the Union, these flags were in fierce battle and were held by brave men who in quite a few instances gave the ultimate sacrifice by waving their regimental flags.<br />Cannons, Swords, Pistols, Rifles and other arms are shown as well as Cannons, Canteens, and various other equipment that was used by Union Soldiers are displayed.<br />This is the companion book to the Arms and Equipment of the Confederacy and both books are a MUST have in the serious Civil War Historian, and affecianado's library.<br />Highly Recommended!	2003-03-08
US	50736803	R14L53OBBS2U8N	0195135210	436402699	Crossroads of Freedom: Antietam (Pivotal Moments in American History)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A good but already known overview of the ACW early years	James McPherson has written a good book about the why's and how's the Civil War was being waged from its beginning at Ft. Sumter in 1861 to the Battle of Antietam (or Battle of Sharpsburg as the Confederacy called it).  I expected McPherson to give detail about the battle itself.  However, the book is about the &quot;why's&quot; and &quot;how&quot; the war was being waged.  That being said, it was an interesting read, but nothing that the most casual Civil War historian dosen't already know or should know at the very least.<br />Many author's that are well known and not as well known as McPherson have already written about the beginning years of the Civil War (Bruce Catton, Shelby Foote, E. Bearss, etc) and most have the same conclusions to the why's and how's the Civil War was being waged in the beginning.<br />It would of been an outstanding read if McPherson would of drawn the reader into the depth of the Battle of Antietam.  However, that was not the author's objective.  That is fine, I can understand that, however, he should of changed the title of the book to &quot;The first years of the Civil War&quot; or &quot;A summary of the conflict from 1861 to 1862&quot;.  If McPherson had changed the title, it would help readers from the beginning know what McPherson's thesis would be from the onset.<br />Don't get me wrong, it is a good book, but if you want to know the specifics about the Battle of Antietam, look elsewhere.	2003-02-02
US	50736803	R3IKPZY682KCK1	0809488507	829837895	Arms and Equipment of the Confederacy (Echoes of Glory)	Books	5	21	21	N	N	A MUST have for any serious Civil War Library	What a fascinating and interesting book this is.  It provide invaluable material to anyone who has a serious interest in the Civil War.  This book was made by the editors of Time/Life and I must say that they did their research accurately.  This book describes the arms (weapons) and the equipment (from canteens to buttons) that the average Confederate enlisted soldier to the Confederate General used during the Civil War.<br />Each section of the book is divided into weapons (Pistols, Rifles, etc) and tells not only the type (with great photographs that are in color) but who issued them as well.  From Rifles, Guns, Knives, Swords (Officer and Enlisted), to regualar camp knives, they are in this book if they were issued by the Confederate Government.  Even those that were homemade are listed in here as well.<br />The most interesting parts in my opinion are the Uniforms that the Confederate Soldier wore and the flags that were flown by individual regiments.  The Confederate Soldier wore a uniform that was diverse as to the regiment each one served in.  From home-spun uniforms to those acquired overseas and in stylish clothing stores, those that the editors could find and be able to use are in here (alot of Uniforms, Flags, etc were supplied for the book by the Museum Of The Confederacy).  Some of the hats that are in this book, show the holes where bullets either killed the wearer of the hat, or made it a VERY close call.  Uniforms great and small are in this as well.<br />There is also a narrative throughout the book that is easy to follow and VERY interesting.  There is a background story to some of the uniforms that tell of the wearer of them, if they died in battle, or lived to a prosperous old age.<br />The division/regimental flags are also in here and give the story to how they were made, if they were captured, or if they survived the war.<br />What a great book this is, and it is an absolute must have to any Civil War enthusiast, as well as those who have anytype of interest on the War fought between the states.<br />Highly recommended!!ype of interest on the War fought between the states.<br />Highly recommended!!	2003-01-24
US	50736803	R1M6SF7YCKBK6U	0783547005	646249994	Gettysburg (Voices of the Civil War)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Interesting, insightful book about The Battle of Gettysburg	This is one of the books in the Time-Life Series, \\"Voices of the Civil War\\".  In these books the authors/editors have taken passages out of diaries, letters to home, and personal observations of Union and Confederate Soldiers, along with photographs and pictures (of the soldiers, if a photograph is available), and given the soldier's viewpoints of the Battle.  This is an insightful, moving, inspiring, and tragic account of the particular battle.  In this case, the great and terrible Battle Of Gettysburg.<br />From such Generals as Robert E. Lee, James Longstreet, W. Scott Hancock, to low ranking officers, to the enlisted men, there are letters, diary entries, and viewpoints taken from these soldiers as they write about \\"Little Round Top\\", \\"The Devils Den\\", \\"Culps Hill\\", \\"Cemetary Ridge\\", and other locations where the battle took place around Gettysburg.  The letters and viewpoints range from the patriotic, others talk about the terror of the battle, others inform about lost loved ones, and yet there are humorous tales taken from the diaries of the soldiers.<br />This is such an interesting book, that once you pick it up, it is hard to put down.  The other books in the \\"Voices of the Civil War\\" series are just as interesting as \\"Gettysburg\\".<br />Highly recommended!	2002-12-26
US	50736803	R232J8ELFMZKNE	089839127X	997269566	Hitler's Guard: The Story of the Leibstandarte SS Adolf Hitler, 1933-1945 (Battery Classics Series)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Excellent history of Hitler's personal regiment	Not very many books today are published about this controversial regiment of the German Military during World War II.  Due to the regiments close association with Adolf Hitler and its role within the SS, it is politically incorrect for many military history authors to write about regiments within the SS yet alone the SS Leibenstandarte Adolf Hitler Regiment.<br />As a military history and also just a history enthusiast student/teacher, I wanted to know more about this regiment and the role it played before and during World War II.  I was not unsatisfied after reading it.  The author James J. Weingartner did an excellent job detailing the founding of the regiment prior to World War II.  This regiment was tough and had excellent training in both physical and tactical aspects under the leadership of Sepp Deitrich who was Adolf Hitler's personal bodyguard and who later commanded the regiment.<br />This regiment had to be \\"a cut above the rest\\" because it bore Hitler's name.  Only the best soldiers were admitted and even then, many failed during the harsh training.  Before the war, this regiment was mainly used for parades and high visible events.  During the war the regiment had to be used for fighting the Allies as they got closer to Germany.<br />This regiment fell out of favor with Hitler, which was not unusual during the later half of the war.  Hitler blamed everyone but himself for the way the war was turning against Germany.  Hitler ordered the regiment to stop using his name on their cuffbands and flags.  However, many didn't follow this and this was a regiment who fought fiercely and bravely.<br />There are alot of administrative and technical points in this book, however it doesn't distract from the overall readiblity of the book.  The author does a fine job in following the brief history of this regiment and this book is highly recommended to those who want to learn about the German Armed Forces during World War II.<br />Highly recommended!	2002-08-12
US	50736803	R3JOO851PKSS9W	B00005WGX3	575841556	Now we are enemies	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Fantastic overview about the Battle of Bunker Hill	Thomas Fleming wrote an outstanding book not only about the famous Battle of Bunker Hill, but about the relationship between Great Britain and the American Colonies.  Fleming makes his point very well when he describes the close family ties between prominent families on both sides of the Atlantic, as well as the eventual dissatisfaction that both the crown and the colonies unfortunately had.<br />Military leaders on both sides of the issue, British and American did not want to fight against each other.  From Sir Thomas Gage, the British General who's wife was an American to John Adams who until the start of the armed hostilities considered himself a subject of the Crown, Fleming tells about the hesitance of conflict.  Alas, unfortunately due to delayed communications of the 18th Century, British and American arrogance, and other factors, harmed hostilities did indeed break out and thus the American Revolution began.<br />Fleming writes not only about the Battle of Bunker Hill but also the immediate events that led to the British Army and Marines marching up the hill, such as Lexington and Concord, Revere's famous midnight ride, the illegal meetings of men who wanted to break free from Great Britain such as Samuel Adams, Dr. Joseph Warren (a true patriot in every sense of the word), John Hancock, John Adams, et al.<br />The battle itself is told in gruesome yet rivoting detail.  Many brave British and American soldiers died at Breed's/Bunker Hill.  What a tragedy to hear of British Major John Pitcairn who died in his sons arms.  Pitcairn was a friend of both British and American soldiers, yet he carried out his tragic orders to capture Americans and stop the revolt of the \\"American Rebels\\".<br />The British Army was slaughtered as they marched up the hill, yet due to their dedication of duty they ultimately captured Bunker Hill at the high cost of many lives.  American soldiers died tragically that day as well.  Many patriots sacrificed their lives, such as Dr. Joseph Warren who was a true leader of men.  What his contribution to the war and the founding of the United States will sadly be unknown due to his death at Bunker Hill.<br />General Gage after seeing many men dead on the field of battle was truely dumbfounded and had no words of what he felt.  A truely tragic and bloody battle that I suppose had to fought.<br />Bunker Hill showed the British Army for the first (and not the last) time that their American \\"cousins\\" were no pushovers and as Gage later said \\"the Rebels had an army who knew very well what they were about\\".<br />This is a very highly recommended read to all who are interested in the American Revolution and would be a welcome addition to any library or U.S. History classroom as required reading or as a companion book of information in any U.S. Colonial/Revolutionary War History Class.  This book has been out of publication for many years, and in my opinion should be re-issued again so that more Americans should know what a costly yet heroic battle Bunker Hill was.<br />Highly Recommended!!eph Warren who was a true leader of men.  What his contribution to the war and the founding of the United States will sadly be unknown due to his death at Bunker Hill.  <br />General Gage after seeing many men dead on the field of battle was truely dumbfounded and had no words of what he felt.  A truely tragic and bloody battle that I suppose had to fought.  <br />Bunker Hill showed the British Army for the first (and not the last) time that their American \\"cousins\\" were no pushovers and as Gage later said \\"the Rebels had an army who knew very well what they were about\\".<br />This is a very highly recommended read to all who are interested in the American Revolution and would be a welcome addition to any library or U.S. History classroom as required reading or as a companion book of information in any U.S. Colonial/Revolutionary War History Class.  This book has been out of publication for many years, and in my opinion should be re-issued again so that more Americans should know what a costly yet heroic battle Bunker Hill was.<br />Highly Recommended!!	2002-06-10
US	50736803	R22BZURF930GVX	0870210270	315044882	Battleship Bismarck: A Survivor's Story	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Outstanding 1st hand account of the famous Battleship	Burkard Baron von Mullenheim-Rechberg has written a stirring account of his personal recollections of when he was assigned to the famous battleship Bismarck.  From his first observations of when he first came abord the Bismarck and met her honorable Capitan, to when he was rescued after the Bismark was sunk, to life aftwerwards as a POW in Great Britain, his remarks, observations and analysis is \\"second to none\\".<br />I am fortunate to have been a U.S. Navy veteran and can personally \\"visualise\\" what the interior of the Bismarck could have been like, von Mullenheim-Rechberg gives a fascinating view of the crew, from the ordinary seaman to the egotistical Fleet Admiral Raeder.<br />The crew of the Bismarck is to be commended for their heroic actions underfire as well as their devotion to duty and each other.  It is unfortunate that an outstanding Battleship such as the Bismarck was a tool in Adolf Hitler's warped and destructive vision.  von Mullenheim-Rechberg makes his point very well that he was an anti-Nazi, but he was also a Sailor who had to defend the Fatherland (Germany)in an honorable way.<br />The details of the Battleship are told in an easily understandable prose, as well as the famous Battle when the HMS Hood was sent to the bottom of the ocean due to the excellent marksmanship of the huge guns of the Bismarck.  The frightening events of the sinking of the Bismarck are also told with chilling detail as well.<br />This is a book that is to be recommended to all serious students of World War II as well as to those who enjoy a great lesson in history.  After reading this, I have an admiration for both the British and German Navies of World War II, it is a tragedy that such admirable foes had to face one another at all.<br />Highly recommended!	2002-05-31
US	50736803	R2RYFQF9D4FX82	0399144358	72399214	Lawrence Sanders: Three Complete Novels	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Sanders best character in 3 delightful tales!	What a pure delight it is to read three of Archy McNally's crime solving adventures in one book!  I spent an entire weekend laughing, and thoroughly enjoying myself reading how the brilliant rogue Archy McNally bumbles into a case (and at times into the bed of an attractive female) and how he solves a case.  Each of these stories is definite fun to read from the beginning to the last page.  I really do miss Lawrence Sanders...Archy hasn't been the same without him.	2002-01-25
US	50736803	R3MWX79U6OBNWM	0399147888	551427604	Under Fire	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Outstanding addition to this excellent series	This is the first time I have written a review on this excellent series.  I am suprized I haven't before, however I suppose that there are so many reviews written about the previous books in this series that my opinion is in agreement with those who enjoy this series immensely.<br />This is an excellent addition.  The main characters, Ken McCoy, Fleming Pickering and his son Fleming Pickering Jr, Ed Banning, Ernie Zimmerman and all the others are important in the plot of the book.<br />The year is 1950, and it is the beginning of the Korean War.  Capt. McCoy is convinced that the North Koreans are a threat and will start a war, however the higher brass dosen't share his opinion and try to kick him out of the USMC.  It turns out that McCoy is 100% on the money.  Thus begins the interesting story.  There of course is combat, political and military intrigue, and of course the women who love their Marines are in the book as well.  My favorite is Ernestine &quot;Ernie&quot; McCoy, Capt McCoys wife, she is the type of woman that any man would be fortunate to have as a girlfriend or wife.<br />This is a fine addition to &quot;The Corps&quot; series.  It is a definite page turner that will have the reader well up into the early morning hours.  I just got finished and am eagerly awaiting for Mr. Griffins next addition to this fine series.<br />Highly recommended!	2002-01-16
US	50736803	R1K3YEII0ZNEGK	1586480839	807946465	Booknotes: Stories from American History: Leading Historians on the Events That Shaped Our Country	Books	5	39	41	N	N	An outstanding overview of American History	I was watching the Don Imus Radio Program &quot;Imus In the Morning&quot; when he recommended to his listeners this book edited by Brian Lamb, the founder and current executive of C-SPAN.  After hearing numerous recommendations from other viewers and notables on the Imus program, I decided to purchase the book myself and see if it was as good as others said it was.  I was not disappointed in the least.<br />The book is in overview exerpts of interviews of notable historians and other personalities who have written a book about a historical figure or event and was on the C-SPAN show &quot;Booknotes&quot; to talk about the book they have written.  Such authors as James McPherson, the excellent Civil War Historian to NBC News Anchorman Tom Brokaw who talked about the World War II generation.  The book starts with the American Revolution and ends with the year 2000.  Each chapter is a brief overview of what the historians/authors on C-SPAN said during the show that they appeared and it is interesting and to the point.<br />The chapters are short 5 to 8 pages at the most, but they keep the reader's interest throughout.  There is an introduction at the beginning of each chapter that tells the date that the historian/author appeared on Booknotes and what the name of the book was that they have written.<br />Each chapter is interesting and dare I say &quot;fun&quot; to read.  From the founding of America, to the Civil War, to current day is fascinating reading.  Such notable figures as U.S. Grant, J.P. Morgan, John F. Kennedy and so many others are discussed as well.  From historical acts to controversy, this book has them all.  It provides a &quot;taste&quot; of the individual book that is presented by the authors and also some tell the motivation to why they wanted to write about an event or historical figure.<br />This is easy to read and does not get bogged down in detail.  If you want detail, then buy the actual book that the various authors have written about.<br />This is the kind of book that would be excellent for a upper level high school U.S. History Class or for College U.S. History Classes as well to use as a companion to the required textbooks assigned for the classes.  This is also the perfect book for the &quot;armchair&quot; historian who enjoys a good read about interesting people and events, but dosent want to know the minute details involved in a huge biography or book on a historical event.<br />Highly Recommended!his is the kind of book that would be excellent for a upper level high school U.S. History Class or for College U.S. History Classes as well to use as a companion to the required textbooks assigned for the classes.  This is also the perfect book for the &quot;armchair&quot; historian who enjoys a good read about interesting people and events, but dosent want to know the minute details involved in a huge biography or book on a historical event.<br />Highly Recommended!	2001-12-31
US	50736803	R1RC9Q4JA3OVJO	0446310786	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An outstanding novel that is entertaining and effective	Harper Lee has written one of the most effective, entertaining and powerful novels in the last 60 years with \\"To Kill A Mockingbird\\".  The novel about the south that takes place during the depression. Lee takes an unusual yet stirring view, and that is thru the eyes of a young girl named Scout.  A brief synopsis of the main theme is that Scout's father is Atticus Finch a lawyer in a small town in Alabama that has to defend a negro accused of raping a white woman.  Whether the man did rape the woman is not the point due to the fact that white Southern society of the 1930's... have already judged him guilty.<br />Atticus's arguments in the courtroom and his point of view is mesmorizing and the couragous stand he makes in defense of his client makes this a page turner.  Yet again it is thru the eyes of a child who is starting to discover that the world isn't as nice as she once thought.  The circumstances that happens to Scout in the novel are funny, sad, and one part is absolutely chilling.  The other plots in the novel are effective as well as the supporting character's.<br />I know that others have written... reviews on this novel and its theme of racial injustice.  ...[M]y point of the review is to let readers know that this is an effective novel for young adults to read and discover a part of society that had extreme prejudice and another part of society that endured thru tremendous loss and hardship.  This is quite a novel and is highly recommended to all young readers.	2001-12-02
US	50736803	R11LE97CM3FY2K	0399146180	824996605	McNally's Folly: An Archy McNally Novel	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Not nearly as good as Lawrence Sanders	I was saddened at the death of Lawrence Sanders, however I became excited when I found out that Archy McNally would live on due to the Lawrence Sanders estate allowing Vincent Lardo to continue writing the mystery stories of Archy McNally.  Unfortunately, I was dissapointed in the outcome.<br />While some elements of Archy's whim and tact are in the book, I find the character lacking any charm.  The vocabulary of Archy belongs in a 1940's or 1950's &quot;B&quot; movie rather than that of Archy.  The plot is unimaginative and one dimensional.  The spirit of the novel is lacking and it is strictly &quot;by the numbers&quot;.  This author dosen't even describe in delicious detail the snacks, breakfast, lunch and dinners that Archy usually describes (a Sanders trademark).<br />The heroine is also lacking in whit and charm.  All together a big let down...And that is too bad since I enjoy the old Archy McNally.  I am sure Vincent Lardo is a good author in other subjects, however he missed the target in this endeavor.	2001-11-07
US	50736803	R10286C2XALUJ0	0808511343	363273152	Walk Across America	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wonderful book, full of adventure and a spiritual journey	What a great book this is. Peter Jenkins in the 1970's walked across America and not only had interesting stories to tell, but also had his own spiritual journey to undertake. I first read this many years ago and it left a lasting impression upon me. Having recently re-read it, I still feel the journey he took and wish I too could take a journey such as his.<br />Maybe America was a tad more safe in the 1970's than it is today, but fortunately Peter only had a few incidents, that could also be because his trusting companion Cooper, a Siberian Husky also travelled with him many, many miles. From Peter's beginning travels in New England down the Atlantic states and across to Louisiana, he tells the reader his encounters as he faced them on the trails, roads, and forests, he also talks about his own self journey and inner strugle to find his &quot;own path&quot;. His tales about the &quot;Mountain Man&quot; to his &quot;adoption&quot; by a black family is interesting and wonderful to read. He at last finds his &quot;soul mate&quot; and also what he is looking for. I love this book, and hopefully one day I would like to meet Peter Jenkins and let him know that his book made an impact upon me. I recommend this to anyone who would like to make a journey across America and get to know the people and land, also those who need a &quot;spiritual journey&quot; would find comfort in this book as well. Highly recommended!	2001-09-04
US	50736803	R16IWMME4TJEEX	0195140826	67536816	Stand Firm Ye Boys from Maine: The 20th Maine and the Gettysburg Campaign	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Another great account of Little Round Top	So many books have been written about the Battle of Gettysburg and in particular the events that occured on the 2nd day of battle concerning the decisive events that occured on Big Round Top and Little Round Top, after reading many books by noted scholars, I thought I knew the events and the 20th Maine led by Col. Joshua L. Chamberlain very well.  I was wrong, Thomas A. Desjardin has uncovered some actions taken by the men of the 20th Maine as well as Col. Chamberlain that hasn't been written before and incorporated it into this book very nicely.<br />Usually, when writing about the 20th Maine at Gettysburg, an author will focus on the events that occured at Little Round Top only and ignore what happened to the regiment before July 2, 1863 and afterwards, however Desjardin tells readers what the regiment went through a month or so before the battle and what happened on July 3 during Picketts charge.  This is a nice change only one other author comes to mind when I read this and that is John Pullen in his book &quot;The 20th Maine&quot; that was written many years before.<br />Desjardin describes the regiment in an easy to read prose, he dosen't mix in to many details that aren't necessary and he makes a reader feel like they were there during the crucial events at Gettysburg.  I think Col. (later Gen and Governor) Chamberlain would approve of this book in its no nonsence manner (even though Col. Chamberlain did speak and write rather long).  This is accurate and very interesting to read.<br />Highly recommended!	2001-09-03
US	50736803	RVIQWKK6FHSBE	080612945X	106113830	An Oklahoma I Had Never Seen Before: Alternative Views of Oklahoma History	Books	5	19	27	N	N	Informative essays about the &quot;flip-side&quot; history of Oklahoma	As the reviewer below was, I too was a student in Dr. Joyce's Oklahoma History class and this book was a required text for the course.  After reading the essays of the book which deal with a more radical history of Oklahoma that is definitely not as well known in this state such as the Abortion Rights Movement, Gay Rights, the stealing of land from the Native Americans by White Men during the land rush of the 1880's-1890's, etc,.<br />Dr Joyce has brought together some very eye opening essays from various writers who have either first hand experience or from those who are subject matter experts.<br />This is the type of book that should be required reading to all high school students in Oklahoma.  Yes, the book is definitely controversial and would upset those with conservative, &quot;right-wing&quot; viewpoints, however with that said, it describes events in the state's history that everyone should be concerned about.<br />I admire Dr. Joyce and the conviction that made him write this book, and I highly recommended it to all who want to know a viewpoint of Oklahoma, its people and history that is generally not well known.	2001-05-28
US	50736803	R2ONTC00I9S0CH	0807842303	733176663	The Adams-Jefferson Letters: The Complete Correspondence Between Thomas Jefferson and Abigail and John Adams	Books	5	21	23	N	N	An excellent memoir of the founding fathers	Thomas Jefferson and John Adams, friends-foes and back to being friends in the later part of their interesting lives wrote a series of letters to each other from Monticello, VA to Quincy, MA and vice versa during the later years of their lives.  These two outstanding and influential men of history were so instrumental in the founding of the United States that their thoughts, beliefs and insights are invaluable to historians.<br />These two men started off as friends during the climatic years of the Declaration of Independence and the American Revolution, that unfortunately later on during the infant years of the United States they found themselves at odds with each other due to political beliefs and ideas that turned into personal attacks. Adams was more of a politcal conservative who believed in the gentry and status quo of the class system, while Jefferson was more liberal in his beliefs of personal freedom and thought.  This lead to many years of &quot;back-stabbing&quot;, quarrels over issues great and small, and bitter feelings.<br />Thank goodness, these two men put aside their differences of their younger years, and developed their friendship annew, with wisdom and gentility.  Their insights on how the younger generation of Americans is interesting, their continued hope for the future of the United States is promising, even today, and their genuine affection for each other is heart warming.  Adams and Jefferson even realized that they shared alot of the same ideas and beliefs in their later years, and it is good to hear this.  John Adams last words before he died on July 4th, 1826 (the same day that Jefferson died) was &quot;Jefferson Lives&quot;!  Well Thomas Jefferson certainly does live as well as John Adams, in their beliefs and hopes for the great country of the United States, and their inspiration and intelligence is what every American young and old, great and small should strive for.  Highly Recommended!	2001-02-19
US	50736803	R29XYKQSWMYRM7	0669218774	165203745	Hammer or Anvil?: Modern Germany 1648-Present (Problems in European Civilization)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Fantastic overview of German history	I am a history major and this was the textbook that I used in class.  It is an excellent resource and overview of German society since 1648 to the present.  The author, Holger Herwig gives excellent social analysis, thoughts and actions of key figures from Kaiser Friederich Wilhelm I to Adolf Hitler.  Herwig's commentaries and observations of how the different states of the Holy Roman Empire survived and eventually united into a unifed German state (a process that took over 200 years) are on target.  Herwig dosen't forget to tell about the rivalry between Austria and Prussia, Napoleon and the different German kings, and the relationship between the smaller yet important German states had with each other.<br />The book also describes the Napoleonic Wars, the industrial awakening of Germany-Prussia, and the gradual unification of a modern Germany.  Herwig also describes how the Nazi party came to form as well and the inner-working of the party.  Herwig gives both pro's and con's of the Nazi regime and how Germany eventually overcame the stigma of WWII to become a leader in todays world.<br />This is a highly informative book and is highly recommended to German history students and enthusiasts of European history.	2001-02-03
US	50736803	R2ONG9KDTZX2VA	0806128836	561681065	The Black Infantry in the West, 18691891	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Great analysis of the little researched Buffalo Soldier	Dr. Arlen Fowler has done an excellent job in writing about the little known and researched &quot;Buffalo Soldier&quot; who was vital in establishing and maintaining law and order in the west during the 1860s-1890s.  Drawing on resources, Dr. Fowler has writtemng in an excelelnt and easy to read prose.<br />Dr Fowler researched extensively for this book from little known and altogether scares resources of material.  However, all the resources that were available about the Buffalo Soldiers were used and cited accurately in this book.  But, the MOST important plus about this book is the interesting stories about the Buffalo Soldiers daily life is told.  From the dreary and wretched living conditions the soldier had to endure on a daily basis, to the evident discrimination that the African-American Buffalo Soldier had to endure, to the loyalty and bravery that the Buffalo soldier displayed from guarding a stagecoach run, laying miles of telegraph line, fighting fierce Indians, all these accounts and more are in this book.<br />I highly recommend this book to all who enjoy a great story and documentation about the little known Buffalo Soldier, the American West and fighting the Native Americans.  A Great Read!	2001-02-02
US	50736803	R23XAWR09L45VV	0811708810	813002206	John Peebles' American War (Publications of the Army Records Society, Vol. 13)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A great first hand account of the American Revolution	This is an outstanding account of the American Revolution by an overlooked point of view, being that of a British Officer.  John Peebles, an officer in the famed Royal Highland Regiment was unfortunately one of the few soldiers of the British to keep an everyday diary of his life during the American Revolution.  His diary begins in Europe when his regiment is mustering up soldiers to fight overseas in America.  It is fascinating to see how the British Army was preparing for war against &quot;the colonists&quot;.  Peeble's also keeps a quick summary of the things that happened everyday during his tour of duty, from the mondane of standing watch, eating rations, doing paperwork, etc, to the truely gripping accounts of battle.  Peeble's had a keen observation of his enemy and of the conduct of his superiors and those that were in his regiment.<br />Peeble's did his duty for his country and King admirably, however as the years go on (1776-1782) you can begin to see his change of feelings for the war.  He begins to question why Great Britain is fighting and he is beginning to have grudging respect for the American &quot;rebels&quot;.  I am sure that he was one of the vast majority of British soldiers who, after a few years was questioning their country's resolve to end the Revolution.  However, Peeble's did his duty and fought without question.<br />From the everyday account of camp life, battle, observations of Torries, rebels and common folk in the colonies, Peebles provides an invaluable account of what life was like during the Revolution from the opposing point of view.<br />At the end of the diary the editor does and excellent service and provides the follow up to the key figures of Peeble's diary furnishing what happened to the Generals, soldiers and people of importance after the war.<br />Overall this is an excellent read and is a MUST have for the serious student and enthusiast of the American Revolution.	2001-01-25
US	50736803	R35XYBIZ6HSQ26	0306808498	630178427	Milestones: The Music And Times Of Miles Davis	Books	5	17	19	N	N	The definitve biography of Miles Davis written thus far	Jack Chambers has done a very hard task and that is to present the life of the legendary Miles Davis to readers in a very interesting, yet complex style which was reflective of the way Miles Davis led his life and music.<br />Miles Davis was the premiere jazz musician of his time along with John Coltrane, Charlie &quot;Bird&quot; Parker, Herbie Hancock, etc, yet while you can love Davis's music, to know the man was very hard to do, since Miles Davis was a standoffish and sullen individual.  Chambers describes Davis's behavior as being sullen and hard to know because Davis's was a very shy man.  I am sure that Davis lived a tough life because of injustice, yet it is sad that he didn't trust his fans and those who cared for him.  Davis certainly lived the life of a &quot;star&quot;, he over-indulged in sex, was an abuser of drugs, and had split personalities later on in life, yet his musical vision was almost always focused and clear, whether it be in the pinnacle of his talent (1950-1962), or his creating fusion (1967-1973), or the later part of his life.<br />Chambers does an excellent job of detailing the relationship Miles had with his fellow musicians such as the love-hate relationship with Theolonius Monk, the admiration and jealousy between Coltrane and Miles, as well as Miles being a mentor to such jazz greats as Herbie Hancock, John McGlaughlin, Chick Corea, etc.<br />I am a tremendous fan of Miles Davis jazz visions, I love his music and his musical style, yet after reading this book I feel sadness because I don't know if I pity Davis or just not liking him altogether, or admiring him no matter what, his final years were spent in paranoia, suspicion and feeding his ego, that is sad because if he would of just relaxed and enjoy his fans admiration I believe he might have lived longer.  Anyways, this is an outstanding book and is highly recommended to all jazz lovers and fans of the immortal Miles Davis.	2001-01-09
US	50736803	RSAS8TK9RVKWL	0553280902	238913877	Hondo: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A great western novel by a classic author	I don't read westerns very much, usually I find that they have the same basic plot, no matter who the author is.  However, I have always heard of Louis L'Amour because my brother used to read his novels.  When I heard that John Wayne did a movie based on one of L'Amour's characters in a novel he had written, well first I saw the movie, which I liked, then I read the novel, which I really enjoyed.<br />Hondo is a very entertaining novel.  It has vivid descriptions of the harsh desert life where Hondo lives.  It describes the tough life of a woman who is surviving on a desert ranch along with her young son.  The novel also tells about the true desert warriors the Apache Indians.  Mix all of these together with a very tough yet tender cowboy such as Hondo and you get a great novel as a result.	2000-12-28
US	50736803	R2TKOA8G0LFKLI	0425137457	815033385	McNally's Luck (Archy McNally)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	An absolute delight to read!	Lawrence Sanders is one of my favorite authors, and when I first read the McNally detective series, I was instantly hooked.  Archie McNally is one of the best characters in mystery fiction that I have ever read (in my &quot;expert&quot; opinion).  Archie is a rogue that loves life and all the guilty pleasures that come with it.  Yet, Archie has a good conscience, (when he dosen't trip over into the bedroom of latest beautiful woman he encounters). Lawrence Sanders always describes the meals his detective consume in delicious detail.  I wish their was a Pelican Inn near where I live, like the one that Archy goes to for lunch and dinner.<br />In every McNally novel, there is the relationship between Prescott McNally (Archy's father) who probably looked like Lawrence Sanders, Prescott, is the epitome of an &quot;old fashioned Gentleman&quot; who lives in Florida.  Yet I believe Sanders was more like Archy in real life.<br />The first person narrative of Archy is clever.  His wit is truely hillarious and the way he describes his detective work, his daily encounter with life and the people he deals with is captivating.  I can't speak highly enough of this series.  My sincere wish is that a network would make these into a movie of the week, and I would love to see who they can pick to portray Archy. However, until then and long afterwards I will anxiously await the next adventure of Archy, no matter if it is written by another author, since the truely sad passing of the late great Lawrence Sanders.	2000-12-27
US	50736803	R3EBVK0U164HLU	0345384687	858634254	The Guns of the South	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A clever twist in historical fiction	I was first recommended to read this, by a fellow Civil War enthusiast, and I wasn't dissapointed.  Harry Turtledove does an excellent job in twisting the tail of history by allowing time travellers of the future to go back into U.S. History and show up in the middle of the Civil War.  It is interesting to read how Turtledove lets these time travellers affect history by allowing the introduction of the AK-47 to Confederate troops, knowing how the Union Army will react in a certain battle due to knowing the outcome.  Turtledove also writes about what could happen to the south if they had won the Civil War, and he did a pretty good job of events.<br />The main characters in this novel are interesting and his portrayal of historical figures are fairly accurate.  In the novel, the time travellers definitely have a ulterior motive and it is really captivating to see who they actually are and what they want.  Overall this is an excellent read.	2000-12-27
US	50736803	R3JKDYMUN6MA7V	051720715X	468476546	Lincoln: An Illustrated Biography	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Brilliant narrative and photography of Abraham Lincoln	Philip B. Kunhardt is to be highly commended for this outstanding photographic history of Abraham Lincoln.  Not only are the photographs captivating, but the narrative of Lincolns life and the important events during his lifetime are interesting and enhance this book. Many interesting stories go along with the photographs of Lincoln from his 40's to his last days, however the most interesting part in my opinion is the month by month account of his presidency and the important events that occured.  So much about the man has been written, but until this book was published not as many photos of President Lincoln were circulated or published. Just as important, are the events and stories which swirled around Lincoln.  From his habits and humor to his history changing decisions are written in clarity and interesting form. His life and his loves are given with compassion, and his impossible losses of his sons and his mentally unballanced wife Mary Todd Lincoln is given unflinchingly. The last chapter of the book is about the assassination and the controversy surrounding Lincoln's remains, a very interesting and informative chapter to close with. I highly recommend this book to anyone with an interest in U.S. History or 19th Century U.S. History.	2000-12-14
US	50736803	R29YQJT18QHZMV	0879305304	946326534	All Music Guide to Jazz 3rd Edition	Books	5	7	11	N	N	A MUST have for all Jazz listeners and enthusiasts.	This is the ABSOLUTE must have for anyone who is serious about Jazz and wants to get the very best for their collection.  The editors/authors that contribute to this Jazz Guide are all Jazz enthusiasts and historians and experts in their field.  The editors definitely know their material and history of jazz and each of them take a specific field of Jazz (Beebop/Fusion/Avant Guarde, etc) and review almost every musician of jazz on their recordings.  From Miles Davis to Frank Sinatra almost every musician of jazz is reviewed starting with the earliest recording date up to their time of death or current release.<br />I find that this book is a TREASURE and I base my decisions on whether or not to purchase a Jazz recording largely on the recommendations that are in this guide.  I also read it to learn more about my favorite musicians and the life they lead or are leading today.  The reviews are absolutely accurate in my opinion and when the guide rates a recording at 5 stars, you will know that it is the very best and you will get your money's worth.  If the reviews are 0 (zero) then you know that is a recording to skip.  I trust these editors and so far they haven't let me down one bit.<br />Believe me, this is an absolute must have to any enthusiast of Jazz.  Trust me this book will NOT guide you in obtaining a bad recording (CD).<br />HIGHLY HIGHLY HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!	2000-11-06
US	50736803	R22YKSA3V1TVCJ	0820314870	847388715	Berry Benson's Civil War Book: Memoirs of a Confederate Scout and Sharpshooter	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Informative and captivating diary of a Confederate Soldier	Berry Benson's personal diary of his soldiering during the Civil War is unfortunately too overlooked by Civil War readers.  benson's diary of his days as a sniper for the Confederacy is filled with amusing tales of camp life, horrifying views of battle and personal strength as he endured life as a POW in Elmira, NY and his ability to return back to his regiment after travelling hundreds of miles through Union territory.<br />This is one of the few diaries of the Civil War that will grip the readers interest from the first page to the last.	2000-11-05
US	50736803	R1KHJV3VXA6P3I	0750919477	537613165	The English Church & the Papacy in the Middle Ages (Sutton Illustrated History Paperbacks)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Outstanding overview of Medieval English-Papacy Relations	C.H. Lawrence has done an excellent job of editing this book which is about the complex relationship between the English Monarchy-Church and the Papacy in Rome.  The authors in this book write about the often severe relationship between England and the Papacy in an excellent and interesting prose that makes this complex subject easy to read.<br />Beginning with the mission of St. Augustine in 597 A.D. to convert the &quot;pagan&quot; celts, picts, etc to the eve of the Reformation the essays in this work describe the fascinating journey that the Catholic Church took in England.  The relationships between the English Kings and the Catholic Church in England was often very severe and at times bloody (for instance Thomas Becket), yet for a number of centuries, the Catholic Church was supreme in English affairs of state and diplomacy.  Yet, England was always questioning Rome's interference in its internal and external affairs, until finally Henry VIII broke off relations with Rome and began the Church Of England.<br />Overall, this is a very interesting read and is highly recommended to all who are interested in English Medieval History as well as Church Historians.	2000-11-01
US	50736803	R1U3A7OUX25LK0	0684853914	247231538	Joe DiMaggio: The Hero's Life	Books	4	5	7	N	Y	An excellent account of the famed/mysterious Yankee Clipper	I am a big Yankee, Joe Dimaggio fan and so I read this book mainly because I didn't know that much about the man that I have grown to admire.  From my boyhood I always knew the statistics he acquired and contributions he made to baseball, but I didn't know about the man, since he was the ultimate baseball enigma.<br />This book by Richard Ben Cramer answered alot of my questions about Joe Dimaggio, such as why was he so quiet and mysterious and out of the public eye quite a bit.  This book may have been criticized because of an unflattering view of Dimaggio, yet it was very honest about the man.  Joe Dimaggio had a spectacular baseball career and moved the game forward to a new level that all baseball fans should appreciate, yet he decided to stay away from his admirers and fans, so he could always maintain that mysterious and unapproachable status that few ever encounter in public life.<br />This book needed to be written because in fact since Dimaggio was so standoffish in life and because he chose to remain in the &quot;shadows&quot; of those who were his fans, that many questions remained about the man.  I do not believe his privacy, intimate thoughts and relationships were violated, as pertained by some who have read this.  Dimaggio must have known that sooner or later during his lifetime or after his death, that a book that revealed more of his personal side would be written.<br />This is a very interesting account of his life, his respect but maybe not &quot;love&quot; of the game of baseball, his outstanding playing and work ethic of baseball, his family and personal life and loves, his ultimate love of Marilyn Monroe is revealed with honesty and actual accounts.  Cramer didn't have to dig deep into research about Dimaggio, all he had to do is read police reports, talk to friends of Dimaggio who were willing to talk to him, and read other accounts of Dimaggio's life.<br />I still have great respect and admiration of Joe Dimaggio.  I feel sorry for Mr. Dimaggio and the life he chose to live outside the baseball field.  His fans truely admired and loved him, yet I believe he truely feared the way he was viewed and thus decided not to reveal himself to much to anyone.  I respect that, and I also respect Mr. Cramer's work on Joe Dimaggio.<br />This book is highly recommended to all Yankee fans and fans of the Great &quot;Joltin&quot; Joe Dimaggio.io and the life he chose to live outside the baseball field.  His fans truely admired and loved him, yet I believe he truely feared the way he was viewed and thus decided not to reveal himself to much to anyone.  I respect that, and I also respect Mr. Cramer's work on Joe Dimaggio.  <br />This book is highly recommended to all Yankee fans and fans of the Great &quot;Joltin&quot; Joe Dimaggio.	2000-10-27
US	50736803	R1O63NXHT2148	0521319234	404397265	The Hundred Years War: England and France at War c.1300-c.1450 (Cambridge Medieval Textbooks)	Books	5	43	47	N	N	An excellent analysis of English/French medieval rivalry	Christopher Allmand has taken a very long timeframe of medieval rivalry between the two great powers of the time, England and France and has done an excellent job of describing the begining, preperation and culmination of a very Bloody and Nasty war between England and France.  These two great nations were always antagonistic with each other and had finally reached a &quot;boiling point&quot; around 1300, thus declaring official and unofficial war with each other that did not end until the beginning of the 19th century. Allmand doesn't use schollarly details to confuse the reader, he writes in a good prose and is easy to understand the background of the French and English Kings who honestly did not like each other, even though in most circumstances they were related to each other by blood or marriage. This book also gives analysis of how the war between these two nations affected the innocent victims such as the villiagers, serfs and even nobility.  This was a war of gaining territory, sacking villiages in the name of the King, very nasty and terrible battles and political status in Medieval Europe. I highly recommend this book to all who want to know about how the rivalry between England and France developed and how the rivalry led to war that made it not just a hundred year war, but a war that lasted well over 400 years.	2000-10-20
US	50736803	RJO3OK68N0NE5	1855325063	514130452	Rorke's Drift 1879: 'Pinned like rats in a hole' (Campaign)	Books	4	35	36	N	N	Excellent account of a hard fought battle	Ian Knight did an excellent job in presenting the famous battle of Rorke's Drift which pitted 150 British and Imperial Soldiers against over 3000 battle trained and tested Zulu warriors.  Knight describes the circumstances that led to the battle beginning with the British having posts far within Zulu territory (present day South Africa) and having failed peace treaties between the British Crown and Zulu Kings. These treaties between the British Empire and Zulu Nation began with the great King Shaka Zulu and newly crowned Queen Victoria, and as such previous times the British Empire wanted more land subjegated under their influence.  Thus began the trouble. This book describes the background of this and also tells about the British loss at Isandlwana which is considered one of the worst defeats in British History. The battle at Rorke's Drift was fought due to one of the Zulu nobility wanting his warriors to fight and taste blood without realizing the tremendous loss of warriors would take place. The British and its Imperial Forces (Boers, and non Zulu tribesmen) did an outstanding job by defending the Rorke's Drift Outpost and thus gaining immortal glory. This is an outstanding book that is highly recommended to those who want to read about overcoming tremendous odds and bravery at all levels of both the British and Zulu Warriors.	2000-10-20
US	50736803	R1BBX2T4IRCF6A	0679738282	136942304	All for the Union: The Civil War Diary & Letters of Elisha Hunt Rhodes	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A great personal account of the Civl War	When Ken Burns's popular documentary series on the Civil War was shown on  T.V. the Civil War diary of E.H. Rhodes who was aPrivate from Rhode Island  was used various times to describe the attitude of &quot;war fever&quot; at  the beginning of the war, to the boredom of camp life, to the fear and  carnage of battle.  Rhodes had an elegant yet easy prose when he wrote to  his family his account of the Civil War.  From Private at the beginning of  the war, to promoting to the Officer rankings, E.H. Rhodes describes the  mood of his mind, his fellow soldiers and the feelings of the Union. I  really enjoyed his diary and also the information of what happened to him  after the war, like being very active in the  G.A.R. reunions.  This man  fought in almost every major battle of the war and his diary is a definte  asset to the understanding of the Civil War.  Highly Recommended to all  Civil War Scholars and Enthusiasts.	2000-09-08
US	50736803	R3HF7QH9HIFLP8	080781749X	686578884	Gettysburg--The Second Day (Civil War America)	Books	5	3	6	N	N	The best account of the 2nd day of Battle at Gettysburg	Harry W. Pfanz did an outstanding job in describing in detail the events of the 2nd day of Battle at Gettysburg.  From troop positions of the first  day and where they were at the sunrise of the second day, through beginning  clashes and large combat encoutners throughout the morning and afternoon  Pfanz describes the strengths and weaknesses of each brigade, battalion and  regiment of the Union and Confederacy that engaged in battle on the second  day.  From the fighting at Seminary Ridge to Devil's Den, The Wheatfield,  Little and Big Round Top and even Gen. William Barksdale's glorious charge  of the Mississsippians that broke through the Union Line, but ultimately  withdrew, Pfanz describes in detail all of the mportant clashes of what  happened based on eyewitness accounts, official reports of both Union and  Confederate resources.  This is a must have book for any serious research  of the Battle of Gettysburg.<br />This has much detail about troop and  artillery positions, but it also has interesting details about the officers  and soldiers which were in the 2nd day of battle.<br />This is a book that  scholars of the Civil War can benefit from because of the detail, also this  book is enjoyable to read for any Civil War enthusiast.  Pfanz is to be  commended for writing this book because of its detail and also its  interesting accounts of the heat of battle that both Union and Confederate  soldiers fought on the 2nd day of Gettysburg.	2000-08-27
US	50736803	R16G2DN241S7I2	089029755X	797420427	The Twentieth Maine	Books	5	27	27	N	N	The definitive account of this brave regiement	John J. Pullen is to be commended for writing a masterful and interesting  account of the famed 20th Maine led by Colonel (later Maj. General) Joshua  Lawrence Chamberlain.  From the founding of the regiment made up of  fishermen, lumberjack and regular men of various towns in Maine, Pullen  describes the unorganization and various other problems the regiment  encountered when it was first formed.<br />Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain was  made Lt. Colonel when he first arrived to join the regiment and soon  afterwards the regiment was becoming disciplined and effective, also under  the command of Col (later Gen) Aldebert Ames.<br />From the first battles the  unit fought in to the carnage of Fredericksburg and thus to  Chancellorsville and finally to the 2nd of July 1863, Pullen describes  vividly the heroic stance the 20th Maine made against the brave attack of  the 15 Alabama and 4th and 5th Texas under Col. William Oates.  The  suprizing bayonet charge by the 20th Maine, when all seemed lost was a  daring and bold moved that quite possibly saved the Union line and thus  ultimately won the Battle of Gettysburg.  The heroic regiment also fought  bravely for the rest of the war especially at Petersburg where Gen.  Chamberlain was seriously wounded.<br />Pullen does an outstanding job  describing the everyday life of the regiment and describing various  soldiers and the routine that made life away from home very tough to bear,  however this regiment is to be commended for their commitment to the Union,  to the state of Maine and to their families most of all.<br />This book is  HIGHLY recommended to all Civil War Readers and once you start reading it,  it will be hard to put down.	2000-08-25
US	50736803	R1I6UNBJQN003E	157544044X	409238191	Inside the Playboy Mansion: If You Don't Swing, Don't Ring	Books	5	27	40	N	N	An execellent journey of the famed Playboy Mansion	This is such an interesting book both in photographs and the stories behind each of the Chicago and &quot;Hollywood&quot; mansions that Hef has  lived in.  From the early 1960's where the food and the women were abundant  listening to the Beatles, The Rolling Stones and even Frank Sinatra, the  Chicago Playboy Mansion was definitely the social scene of the early-mid  1960's and 1970's. Even the Playboy Bunny's had special rooms upstairs in  the mansion where they paid rent to live (although very inexpensive rent  due to the genorosity of Hef). Now the Playboy Mansion West is the social  scene in the 1990's.  The heyday's of the 1960's 1970's and 1990's (the  1980s were a down period for the mansion, also Hef was married to Kimberly  Conrad so the 1980's were a quiet time at the Mansion) are shown in  excellent photographic detail, and yes Hef rightly so, is the spotlight and  focus of this book since he is the creator not only of Playboy Magazine but  also the Playboy lifestyle.<br />From Chicago Hef moved to California and  started the Playboy Mansion West (still the place to go for Hollywood's  elite) and every Playboy fans fantasy is to visit the mansion and meet Hef  himself.  From the Grotto to the movie room each room gives a glimpse of  what a tour would be like and what it would also be like to live there.  The party's, the movie nights, and even the petting zoo are shown.  This  book is a result of many fans of Hef and Playboy asking him what his  everyday life is like behind the scene's at the mansion.<br />I congratulate  Hugh M. Hefner for starting the vision of Playboy, which not only showcases  beautiful women from around the world, but also gives them the opportunity  to take that experience and make it an opportunity.  Alot of feminists and  people may not agree with Hef's philosophy and lifestyle, but that is what  makes Playboy great. The Playboy forum and letter's to the editor gives  people and readers of Playboy Magazine a chance to voice their opinion if  to agree or disagree, Hef believes in the right for people to make their  own choice and express it.  That is one of the purposes of Playboy, the  freedom to express yourself, as long as it does not hurt or damage  others.<br />Thank you Hef for allowing your fans to appreciate the scenes of  the Playboy Mansion and what has happened there over the years, (what I  wouldnt give to go to a Midsummer's Night Dream Party or to Hefs movie  nights!)  This is a great book to all fans of Playboy and the immortal Hugh  M. Hefner.heir opinion if  to agree or disagree, Hef believes in the right for people to make their  own choice and express it.  That is one of the purposes of Playboy, the  freedom to express yourself, as long as it does not hurt or damage  others.<br />Thank you Hef for allowing your fans to appreciate the scenes of  the Playboy Mansion and what has happened there over the years, (what I  wouldnt give to go to a Midsummer's Night Dream Party or to Hefs movie  nights!)  This is a great book to all fans of Playboy and the immortal Hugh  M. Hefner.	2000-08-20
US	50736803	RV27NO4AEPH0O	0807108235	254275613	Generals in Gray Lives of the Confederate Commander	Books	5	6	6	N	N	An essential reference to any Civil War Enthusiast	This is a must have book that outlines each Confederate General who fought  in the Civil War.  From their beginning to the end of their life, each  General of the Confederacy is listed, as well as their picture.  From the  great and popular Generals such as Robert E. Lee, Thomas  &quot;Stonewall&quot; Jackson to more obscure generals such as Francis  Nicholls and Paul Octave Hebert, each of these are analyzed and given  honest treatment to their conduct and bravery during the Civil War.  This  is a defifite MUST have to any Civil War Historian, Librarian or  enthusiast. Highly Recommended!	2000-08-15
US	50736803	REJTSBXZ37YDF	1879664003	916299507	Soul of the Lion: A Biography of General Joshua L. Chamberlain	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A fitting tribute to an outstanding General and Soldier.	This is an excellent book by Willard M. Wallace that was first written in 1960. It begins with the family background of the Chamberlain family and its historical roots back in Europe and then goes to the birth of Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain and details his life story, in which many triumphs and tragedies happened. While this book was written in a &quot;romantic glossy tone&quot;, it is an excellent resouce for material about this gallant soldier and his contribution to save the Union at Gettysburg and Petersburg<br />A man of immense intellect Chamberlain spoke many languages and was a gifted writer and poet. His natural leadership abilities was an inspiration not only to the students at Bowdoin College in Maine, but also to the 20th Maine on the hard fought day of July 2, 1863. This man quite possibly saved the Battle and thus the Union with his suprising and daring charge down Little Round Top thus suprising the men of the 15th Alabama and the rest of Confederate General Evander Law's Brigade.<br />A true leader, as the book points out, Chamberlain was elected Governor of Maine and in later life was a great speaker at many GAR Reunions.<br />This is an excellent book and highly recommended to anyone who wants to know more about the brave and amazing Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain.	2000-08-15
US	50736803	R3R0XPBY8EMDL	0942147073	528157478	Indian New England 1524-1674: A Compendium of Eyewitness Accounts of Native American Life (Heritage of New England Series)	Books	5	27	28	N	Y	Excellent and Interesting View of Colonial Native Americans	What an excellent book!  The editor deserves much praise due to the fact  of the excellent editing and focusing on interesting observations of the  North East Native Americans by early settlers and explorers of North  America.  From the first recorded encounter by the Dutch, English and  French to later observations by settlers and villagers each observation of  various Indian Tribes (Huron, Mohawk, Alganquin, etc) is described in an  interesting and easy to read prose, no doubt due to the excellent editing  by the editor Ronald Dale Karr.<br />It is excellent that a book finally  describes observations of Native Americans and their way of life in the  Northeast by explorers and settlers.  At first very friendly relations  between the two cultures (Europeans and Native Americans) flourished, but  unfortunately the greed and exploitation of the Native Americans sealed  their fate in the Northeast and eventually spread west and south to all  Native American Tribes.<br />This is a book that vividly describes the  customs, clothing, ceremonies, and types of food the Northeast Indians had  during Colonial America and I learned alot more and wish that they were  still here is the U.S. so we could respect and learn from them and  ultimately ourselves.<br />Highly Recommended reading to all U.S.  History/Native American Historians.	2000-08-10
US	50736803	R2LEDWTBCHRWZT	0306805839	935753065	Scipio Africanus	Books	5	3	9	N	N	The definitive work (so far) about a brilliant General.	This is an excellent book that was written over 70 years ago, yet the  author B.H. Liddell Hart presents Scipio Africanus in a prose that is easy  and interesting to read.  I heard of Africanus before, but until I read  this, I did not know how much of a brilliant tactician and strategic  General he was.  Ruthless on the battlefield and loyal to the Emperor's of  Rome, he was either a valuable ally or a fierce enemy.  One of Western  Civilization's greatest General's.  Highly recommended.	2000-08-08
US	50736803	RS3YF5G5WPMGE	0810928701	714640426	Discoveries: Ramessess II: Greatest of the Pharaohs (Discoveries Series)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	An excellent overview of the mighty King of Egypt	This is one in a series of books which overviews significant people and  events in history.  In this book the life and accomplishments of Ramesses  II is chronicled and given in good detail.  Not only is the book about  Ramesses but attention is also give to what an average Egyptian's world was  like during the reign of Ramesses II.<br />The pictures in here are  outstanding from Abu Simbel to Piramesse and ultimately Ramesseum, his  mortuary temple, the pictures are clear and the colors are excellent.  Ramesses life is shown on temple walls, statues and other records.  This  was truely a great and powerful king.  His empire was vast, yet he could  govern it with an iron fist if need be.  Ramesses's mummy is one of the  most photographed mummy's of today, yet I wonder if given life, what he  would say and it would be fascinating to listen to his life and  accomplishments.<br />The Egyptian gods are also detailed here, as they were  most important in an Egyptian's daily life, from Pharaoh to slave.  Also  given in the book, is the possible relationship between Moses (Egyptian  word for Moses is &quot;Mes&quot;) and Ramesses.<br />Overall, this is a  fascinating read and highly recommended to all amatuer and professional  Egyptologists.	2000-08-07
US	50736803	R2N52VBM8J3RQA	0380723220	309441920	The Last Full Measure: The Life and Death of the First Minnesota Volunteers	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A fitting tribute to the bravery of the First Minnesota	This is an outstanding book that gives the detail of the First Minnesota's  glorious charge at Gettysburg and helped saved the Union line against a  largely superior Confederate force.  I have been to Gettysburg and saw the  field on which they charged against the Confederate line and closed the gap  for the critical time needed for Union reinforcements to fill in the gap.  The author also gives great narrative in the book as it does not become  overwhelmed with unnecessary details that would be distracting to the  reader.  The timeframe in the book is mostly the summer of 1863 before the  Battle of Chancelorsville and ends with the valliant and brutal charge in  which the 1st Minnesota lost so many men in less than five minutes.  The  details of the charge are gripping and individual accounts by the soldiers  who were there make the book impossible to put down.  The First Minnesota's  bravery ranks it right along with Col Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain's 20th  Maine as doing the suprizing and remarkable thing at precisely the right  time, in which saved the Union Army and possibly saved the Union from  defeat. This book needs to be reprinted quickly so other Civil War/U.S.  History readers could know about this fine, brave regiment.	2000-08-04
US	50736803	R2N3INNF0FR9FU	0684845695	505645608	The Gettysburg Campaign: A Study in Command	Books	5	24	26	N	N	The definitive book about the Battle of Gettysburg	When I visited Gettysburg Battlefield Park in 1993, I asked the manager of  the giftshop at the Visitor's Center what book is the best detailed  analysis of the Battle Of Gettysburg.  She showed me this book and informed  me that almost everything I wanted to know about the strategy and outcome  of tactics of the battle would be in Edwin B. Coddington's book.  She was  correct.  Coddington definitely did his homework when he wrote this book.  Everything from the decisions of the Generals strategies to the formation  and location of brigades, divisions, regiments and squads of both Union and  Confederate troops.  This has so much detailed that a person who reads this  should read other books about the battle before reading this one.  This is  not for the casual reader, who would get very lost and possibly bored.  This is for the reader who would like to know about unit placements, the  strategy of General Robert E. Lee and General George Meade and the Generals  below them.  Highly recommeded to &quot;arm chair&quot; Generals and  Strategests and those teaching military history.	2000-08-03
US	50736803	R347H5APDORYAR	0312150032	411845347	First Peoples: A Documentary Survey of American Indian History	Books	5	59	63	N	N	Outstanding textbook about Native American History	This was the textbook in my Native American History Class this summer at the University where I am persuing a History Degree with a minor in Teacher Certification.  I must say that this is one of the best textbooks that I  have used since I began college.  The author has taken a wide and complex  field of Native American (Indian) History and has effectively narrowed it  to interesting and important events.  This is a textbook that reads very  well.  The tragic story of the Native American is told with sensitivity and  accuracy.  From the beginning of recorded American Indian History to the  tragic consequences of dealing with European Invaders-Explorers and its  aftermath.  The accounts of the Colonial Indians, 5 Civilized Tribes,  Indian Wars to present day wounded knee, and so much more are given  excellent focus to the student/reader.  I highly recommend this book to any  Professor who will teach Native American History.	2000-08-02
US	50736803	RFFHLW9JH4LLL	0451167716	638098276	The Godfather (Signet)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A &quot;book&quot; you can't refuse!	This is one of the great books of literary fiction that has been written in the last 30 years.  Mario Puzo had a stroke of pure genius when he wrote  this classic novel of the Corleone family.  From the first page to the last  page it grips you hard and takes you on a mesmorizing journey of greed at  all costs, loyalty to familly above all else, and destruction at a grand  scale.  The charactors Puzo writes about from Vito Corleone his son's  Sonny, Michael and Fredo, the supporting character's of Tom Hagen, Johnny  Fontaine (based on Frank Sinatra) are so interesting!  The plot is  outstanding as well as the &quot;sidebar journey's&quot; in the book.  I  can't say enough about this book or the movie's that are based on this fine  work.  You wont be able to put it down once you start reading it.  &quot;Grazi!&quot; to the late Mario Puzo!	2000-08-02
US	50736803	R8JIIL65SOZI9	0679601120	119887520	Stars in Their Courses: The Gettysburg Campaign, June-July 1863	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A fine addition to the account of Gettysburg	This is taken from the three volume Civil War set that Mr. Foote has won wide acclaim for.  Mr. Foote writes not only this work but all of his works  in an elogant, easy to read prose that makes it a delight to read.  He is  accurate in detail, yet takes the time to give eye witness accounts to the  carnage of Gettysburg.  Having been to Gettysburg National Battlefield I  must say it is very sobering to the thought of the destruction that  happened during those three days of early July 1863. From the opening shots  that started this battle to the end at Pickett's Charge, Mr. Foote gives  the reader fascinating detail of the Generals who were in command down to  the foot soldiers who fought and shed their blood.  This is another fine  addition to the works already written about Gettysburg.  If you are  impressed by this book, then by all means read his three volume set of the  Civil War.  You will not be dissapointed!	2000-08-02
US	50736803	R1Y6DM22STDS6D	0688170242	943839740	Smithsonian's Great Battles & Battlefields of the Civil War: The Definitive Field Guide Based on the Award Winning Television Series by Mastervision	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A handy and useful companion to use for C.W. touring	I have been to many Civil War battlefields on the east coast of the U.S. and this book is highly valuable to me in my touring and researching Civil War Battlefields.  The book is coauthored by two scholarly experts on the  Civil War, Jay Wertz and Edwin C. Bearss who give excellent summaries to  each battle that was fought during the Civil War, but what makes this book  especially valuable is the current hotels, bookstores, restaurants and  other points of interest near or on the battlefields that are listed.  Another worthy thing that the guide has is it's listing of what each  battlefiled park has for the visitor such as restrooms, picnic facilities,  paths, guided tours, and museums, which are invaluable to the experience.  This is a MUST have to anyone who is interested on seeing the great  battlefields of Gettysburg, Chickamauga, Shiloh, New Market, etc,  firsthand.	2000-07-29
US	50736803	R2OV0GO62YA4CH	0878332006	327791922	The Day Lincoln Was Shot: An Illustrated Chronicle	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A great summary of the tragic last day of A. Lincoln	I bought this book at Ford's theatre gift shop after asking the giftshop supervisor which book has the best narrative and accurate summary of the events leading up to John Wilkes Booth assasination of President Abraham  Lincoln, she recommended this book.  I must say that she made an excellent  choice.  This is an excellent book that not only gives the details of the  assasination of Lincoln on the night of April 14, 1865, but also gives the  background of the mentally imbalanced actor John Wilkes Booth and his  cohorts of assasins.  This is the companion to the TNT original movie  &quot;The Day Lincoln Was Shot&quot; which in itself is an excellent movie.  But by itself this book stands on itself as giving the all around  perspective both North and South to the views of the Civil War, Abraham  Lincoln and the ultimate defeat of the Confederacy. In this book the  eyewitness accounts of the assasination are told by the people who were in  the theatre box with the President and First Lady as well as by the people  who were in the audience.  The events after the shot was fired are given in  first hand accounts, and narratives and perspectives years after Lincoln's  death.  There is a chapter that even gives focus on the rumor's of Booth's  escape and living to an old age, but I agree with the book's analysis that  this was just rumor.  Booth did die by a soldier's bullet a couple of weeks  after Lincoln's death. Overall, this is a great read that anyone could  enjoy from early High School to a U.S. History Major college student, or  any US History enthusiast who wants to know more about the death of  President Lincoln.	2000-07-29
US	50736803	R1XFQA0DA9M284	0684862441	796343836	A Brotherhood of Valor: The Common Soldiers of the Stonewall Brigade, C. S. A. and the Iron Brigade, U. S. A.	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A worthy addition to these famed brigades history	I have read alot of articles, books and biographies of the soldiers both officer and enlisted in these famed brigades and I must say that this book is a welcome addition to the story of these famous and tragic brigades of  the Civil War. Jeffry Wert does a good job describing the formation of  these brigades during the beginning months of the Civil War and both  brigades early losses and victories.  Named after Thomas  &quot;Stonewall&quot; Jackson, the Stonewall brigade is famous for fighting  ferociously after a 15-25 mile march often in barefeet.  Gen. Jackson drove  his commanders and men hard, yet as long as they won battles they didin't  mind Jackson's sometimes ruthless behavior.  Once Jackson was killed at  Chancellorsville in 1863, the brigade never fully recovered to the extent  of what they used to be. The Iron Brigade of the Union was just as  tenacious and fierce in battle as the Stonewall brigade.  The famed black  hats had won their enemies respect due to standing firm in the heat of  battle.  Yet despite heavy losses this brigade remained strong until the  end of the war. This book analyzes the men and commanders of both brigades  and gives descriptions of where the units were in the battles where they  fought.  Although not the definitive account of the brigades it is a  worthy addition to any Civil War Scholar/Enthusiasts library.	2000-06-28
US	50736803	RSTNHNXD46KQ2	0425115801	134454761	Lightning	Books	5	2	2	N	N	One of Koontz's best...A twist of the story will draw you in	This is one of my favorite Dean Koontz novel.  I was immediately drawn in the story from the very beginning.  From the little girl who finds her self in very bad situations to the &quot;guardian angel&quot; who always saves  her in the nick of time.  As she grows older, you find out more about how  she thinks and who her guardian angel is.  I was quite suprized and really  give Koontz a thumbs up on how he changes the storyline.  This is a book I  pick up every couple of years and read over again, I seldomly do that with  books, even one's that I enjoyed in the past.  Highly recommended to Koontz  fans and readers of a good mystery/sci-fi twist.	2000-06-18
US	50736803	R3VH33SI568V8B	0808501720	741841636	Helter Skelter	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A  mesmorizing and horrifying tale of a true crime in 1969	1969.  What a year.  The last year of a decade that began so innocently and by the end, America had lost its innocence, this crime and the story by the District Attorney who prosecuted the guilty in this tale, definitely  represents the innocense lost in America. Vincent Bugliosi did an  outstanding job to present to the world the bizarre and terrifying account  of Charles Manson and his followers AKA &quot;The Manson Family&quot;.  In  the late summer month of August of 1969, some of the followers committed a  gruesome crime spree of cold blooded murder. Bugliosi does a thorough job  of going thru the background of the guilty and the victims and the events  that led up to the horrifying nights of death.  The trial afterwards is no  less interesting.  Remember all of this happened 30 years ago, yet the book  is still as gripping now as it was when it first was published.  Highly  recommended to all who like to read True Crime.	2000-06-07
US	50736803	R1ND1WWO17ZZCX	0786706929	155858383	The Mammoth Book of British Kings and Queens (Mammoth Books)	Books	5	30	34	N	N	An essential reference to all interested in British History	This is an essential Book of the British Monarchy that has helped me tremendously in doing research about all the Kings and Queens throught the history of Great Britain.  It is thorough, well documented, it has  essential maps and background information, not only about the Kings and  Queens, but also about significant events throughout the history of this  great nation.  This is a book that reaffirms the importance of Great  Britain in Western Civilization.  The Kings and Queens from Alfred the  Great to Elizabeth II are told with interesting form, as well as the Kings  and Queens of Ireland, Wales, Scotland and major chieftans who had their  own kingdoms in Britain during the early Middle Ages. An outstanding book  that is an absolute must to anyone who wants to research the history of  Great Britain.	2000-06-05
US	50736803	RQF8RB6IUZLOP	1572490632	688500299	Struggle for the Round Tops: Law's Alabama Brigade at the Battle of Gettysburg, July 2-3, 1863	Books	5	17	17	N	N	A fine addition to the account of Gettysburg	Morris M. Penny and J. Gary Laine are to be complimented in high form in writing this book about the account of General Evander Law's Confederate Brigade during the Battle of Gettysburg.  The authors certainly did their  research of documenting where each regiment was right before, during, and  after the battle, especially the vital 2nd day for the struggle of Little  and Big Round Top. There has been little presented on the Confederate side  of the struggle before this, due to the Confederate vetereans not having  much resources and opportunity to document their side of the battle on the  second day and the whole battle itself.  However this is one of the best  books written thus far that explains what happened during the 1st, 2nd, and  3rd day. This book does describe the vital encounter between the 15th  Alabama regiment headed by Col. William Oates and the 20th Maine headed by  Col Joshua L. Chamberlain.  It also describes the other regiments of Law's  brigade, such as the Texas and Georgia regiments who's struggle for the  Round Tops were just as violent and bloody. The book does a fair assessment  of the tactics and viewpoint of Gen. Evander Law as well during the battle.  This book makes a fine addition to any Civil War enthusiasts library, or  for the casual reader who would like to read about the Battle Of  Gettysburg. Highly Recommended!	2000-06-05
US	50736803	R37D4WNJJG3PD3	0500050775	301582603	Chronicle of the Roman Emperors: The Reign-by-Reign Record of the Rulers of Imperial Rome	Books	5	19	22	N	N	A great overview about the Emperors who made Rome great	I am a History Major and one of my interests in History is the Roman Empire (200BC-500AD), and this is a very useful resource to help me understand vital points in the history of Imperial Rome and the emperors  who molded and eventually tore down the Roman Empire.  Each emperor from  the beginning to the end is briefly analyzed and gives an overview of their  life and accomplishments.  I consider this to be an essential book to  anyone interested in the history of the Roman Empire.	2000-05-31
US	50736803	RAVWDEC5G0XET	0375754202	756638169	Montcalm and Wolfe: The Riveting Story of the Heroes of the French & Indian War (Modern Library)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A classic about the struggle for domination of N. America	I was impressed by the work and analysis that Francis Parkman gave to the French-Indian War and the background of the war between England and France that spilled over to the North American continent.  The background of the  conflict was very interesting and I learned some points about it that I  hadn't known before.  Not only does Parkman give detail about the struggle  in the present day United States, but also the struggle for Canada.  The  jealousy and rivalry between England and France was enourmous and in its  path alot of victims were made such as the Native Americans and English and  French Colonists.  Two cultures that were very similiar, yet could not  exist peacefully with each other, even across the Atlantic.  The British  may have won this war but their troubles were only beginning in America.  This book was written over a century ago, yet it's language by the author  and text make it a very interesting read and is considered a classic. Very  Highly Recommended to all who want to know more about the history of  Colonial North America.	2000-05-30
US	50736803	R2S21Y5BBDNM8V	0805014632	772937294	Jefferson and Monticello: The Biography of a Builder	Books	5	14	16	N	Y	A well written account of the complex man that was Jefferson	This is a very informative and well written account about the 3rd President of the United States, the immortal Thomas Jefferson.  This biography about the man and his passion for architecture are written down  in easy to follow text that is difficult to accomplish about the complex  man. The planning of Monticello and the labor of building and re-building  are fascinating to think of, especially in the timeframe of which it was  built.  Jefferson was a true genious in his inventions and insight of how  he wanted Monticello to work and function.  People seem to forget that  Jefferson was a gifted man of many talents, and in my opinion, one of his  greatest gifts was architecture.  In architecture of Monticello and the  University of Virginia, Jefferson gives an insight to the man himself.  Simple yet very complex.  Jefferson enjoyed simplicity on the surface, but  peel away the layers of the man, you found a very complex and intellectual  person. The way Monticello was built and rebuilt due to Jefferson changing  tastes and ideas says alot about the mans personal life himself. The only  disturbing thing about Monticello was the human cost of labor that was used  in it being built.  The African-American slaves was the backbone of  building to Jefferson's whim.  This must of took a heavy toll of labor and  lives, due to the magnificence of Monticello.  This by the man who wrote  that &quot;all men are created equal&quot;.  An interesting point to  ponder. Overall, this is an excellent read and highly recommended to any  history enthusiasts and enthusiasts of early American architecture.	2000-05-25
US	50736803	R25NMTU2NKWLIX	0671725823	889146047	Miles: The Autobiography	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A straight forward look into Miles Davis life and opinions	I listened to Miles Davis's recordings for about a year before I purchased this book.  I wanted to find out more about this gifted musician and found alot of insight into Miles Davis. While I don't agree with some of his  opinions, I admire him for his bluntness of his beliefs.  I especially  enjoyed reading about his collaboration with Gil Evans and how such  immortal classics as &quot;Sketches of Spain&quot;, &quot;Miles  Ahead&quot;, and &quot;Porgy and Bess&quot; were developed and made into  classics of Jazz.  His opinions about fellow Jazz musicians are not sugar  coated in any degree, either Miles liked you or he didn't, no middle  ground.  Yet, he admits his flaws and weaknesses, but makes no apologies  for his past and the way he lived.  His views of music critics and race  relations are bitter, yet those were his experiences as he saw it. This  biography of Miles in my opinion is the best insight into the musician and  the man printed so far.	2000-05-05
US	50736803	R2L89CFXK4TVFQ	0395929741	465312798	Lee: The Last Years	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A moving account of R. E. Lee's final years	It is good that someone write about Robert E. Lee's final years after the U.S. Civil War.  Charles B. Flood has written a fitting summary of Lee's final years (1865-1870) from the surrender at Appomatax to his final years  at Lexington, VA.  Lee is portrayed as a silent, thoughtful, regretful,  gentleman who may have chosen to rebel against his former army, but still  is a proud and dignified man. Flood is to be commended in bringing out the  characteristics of the private, distinguished gentleman that Lee was.  From  his dealings with his family to the students at Washington University, his  thoughts, motivations and insights are given with honesty and clarity.  This is the definitive work of the last quiet years of Robert E. Lee, and  is highly recommended for all U.S. History/U.S. Civil War History  enthusiasts.	2000-04-14
US	50736803	R2E3TCS0PVXBW5	0500017980	118845756	Chronicle of the Popes: The Reign-by-Reign Record of the Papacy over 2000 Years	Books	5	42	46	N	N	An essential reference for the Medieval /Church Historian	I am a History Major in college and one of my area's of interest is the Middle Ages (400AD-1500AD).  Of course this means that to study the time of the Middle Ages, one must study Papal History as well.  I find that this  book is essential in researching not only the history of the Papacy but  also the Emperors who were allies and enemies of individual Popes.<br />This  reference is easy to follow, outstanding timeline references, great  drawings, paintings and pictures, but MOST OF ALL it has the brief history  of each Pope since St. Peter and also significant achievements of each Pope  as well.  It also tells about other significant events around the world  during the history of the Catholic Church as well.  Without this reference  book (I consider it a tool) I would be at a definite disadvantage.<br />This  book is a MUST have for Medieval-Church Historians as well as those who are  Medieval History Buffs as well.	2000-03-23
US	50736803	R1YCB6EC5GSR7L	0425098087	738578083	Zodiac	Books	5	6	9	N	N	A very chilling account of terror	I read this book almost 11 years ago and I can still remember almost all of the events that happened.  The Zodiac has to be one of the most cunning and elusive serial killers since Jack the Ripper.  They both (Zodiac and  Jack) have the destinction of never being caught.  The author of the book  does a fantastic job of telling the tale with chilling clarity that is not  often found in true crime tales anymore.  The background of the events from  1966 (when the Zodiac first started killing) up to the late 1960's/early  1970's puts the reader almost into the investigators shoes of trying to  catch this elusive and very intelligent killer. This is a definite MUST  read to any fan of true crime or mystery readers.  Kudo's to the author.	2000-03-22
US	50736803	R1F1OF2L6JY7TR	0394864034	538237653	The Mystery of the Whispering Mummy (Three Investigators #3)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Perfect mysteries for kids (and adults who are at heart)!	I was introduced to this series when I was in the 4th grade (1974)and it was one of the influences that started my life long passion of reading.  Perfectly balanced with great story telling and intelligence that is not  insulting to a young person. Jupiter, Ben and Pete get themselves involved  in great mysteries with the great Alfred Hitchcok to guide them once in  awhile.  You cant go wrong with a secret hidden clubhouse underneath a pile  in a junkyard and a free personal limo and driver.  Great adventures in the  series, there is not a lame story to be read!  Highly recommended!	2000-02-22
US	50736803	R17I57K4WSK96C	0713714603	784748143	The Iron Cross: A History, 1813-1957	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Fascinating and Interesting book about forgotten warriors	A great book that tells the story of German Soldiers and Sailors who achieved the Iron Cross from the Napoleonic Era through the end of WWII and the forming of West Germany.  The author did an excellent job of explaining  the lives of these heroes of battle and how they earned the Iron Cross  (Germany's Medal of Honor).  From Von Buehler to Otto Skorzney all of the  recipients had to face battle and overcome overwhelming odds.  Some of the  winners of the Iron Cross do not deserve it but you can tell who the real  warriors are from those who are just petty imitation.  Highly recommended  to any military history and WWII enthusiast.	2000-02-09
US	50736803	R15A4IID39A8VK	0060925973	377812446	Knight's Cross : A Life of Field Marshal Erwin Rommel	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The best work about Rommel written thus far...	An informative, well researched, fascinating and descriptive book about one of the 20th centuries greatest Generals.  The author definitely did his &quot;homework&quot; when he wrote this work about Erwin Rommel.  Knight's  Cross not only gives you Rommel's military strategy but also an insight to  his character and motivation in both military and personal life.  An  ultimate tragic ending to an honorable and chivalrous (sp) man.  Rommel's  background in battle during World War I definitely influenced his strategy  during World War II.  His ultimate flaw was seeing the way Adolf Hitler was  when it was too late.  If Hitler would of given Rommel the supplies and  ammunition that he need for his Afrika Korps the outcome of the North  African theatre of battle would of turned out quite differently, with  Rommel as the ultimate victor over Montgomery and Patton. Historian's more  often than not put the ultimate blame on Rommel for the allied victory at  Normady.  Yes, he should have part of the blame of the German defeat at  Normandy.  However, blame should also be given to Hitler for not releasing  the Panzers that were needed at Normandy. Overall, the author goes over  these points very well and also gives a much needed analysis about Rommel's  military career, personal-family life and the ultimate fall of the Field  Marshall who finally realized that Germany's only of hope survival was  disposing of Adolf Hitler.  Overall a fascinating read!	2000-02-03
US	50736803	R2K7HJIM94I5B6	0451169514	380266608	It	Books	4	3	4	N	N	It scared me senseless......	What a book!  A dark journey into the underworld of the evil that is truely terrifying.  King has done it again, with this tale.  This is a book that will draw you in, then the clown &quot;Pennywise&quot; will drag you  down..where &quot;They ALL float down here!&quot;  I was with those  teenagers/adults as they recounted there journey of terror into  self-realization.  The only reason that it didn't get a 5 stars in my book  is they ending could of been alot scarier.  Those who read the book will  know what I mean...Overall though, another masterpiece of terror by Stephen  King...	2000-02-02
US	50736803	R2S7RL8Y98HZDG	0060912510	851336603	Everyday Life in Early America	Books	4	49	50	N	N	A good overview about the American Colonies 1500-1750	This is a good book that I found suprisingly detailed with pertinant facts that gave me a better understanding of the culture, religion, family beliefs and social way of life in early Colonial America between 1500 to  1750 (before the Revolutionary War).  The author does an excellent job in  emphasizing the importance of the different Christian religious sects in  the colonies and how importantly they influenced the personal and social  structure in colonial life.  Life on the farm, in the town or villiage is  studied as well as the important tools, crafts, clothing that were used.  Not only is the influence of England stated in this work but that of  Holland and other European powers of the time mentioned as well.  This is a  great book to get to understand what society and indvidual lives were like  prior to the American Revolution.  Overall a very interesting read!	2000-02-01
US	50736803	R1ZONVXBBCOXLB	0826318967	513058867	The Battle of Glorieta Pass: A Gettysburg in the West, March 26-28, 1862	Books	4	13	14	N	N	A good review of an little known U.S. Civil War Battle...	This was a pleasant suprise about a battle that I knew little about.  I don't know if I would call it the &quot;Gettysburg&quot; in the West.  The Battle of Shiloh is the only battle that comes close to Gettysburg when it  comes to mass of troops and casualties.  However, this little known battle  was strategically important for the Confederacy as they tried to spread  their power west and their ultimate goal of obtaining the gold of  California and Nevada and also obtaining official recognition by Mexico.  The author does a good job explain the background of the Confederate troops  (Texans) and the expidition they were on, as well as the Union troops  (mostly Colorado volunteers) meant to stop them in their tracks.  The  Battle of Glorietta Pass did have significant casualties on both sides,  however the ultimate key factor for Union victory was the destruction of  the Confederate's supply train.  I recommend this book to any Civil War  enthusiast who wants to read about a different, little known but  significant battle of the Civil War.	2000-01-31
US	50736803	R3AX3BCOI78DQG	1575441284	451674972	The Playmate Book	Books	5	7	7	N	N	An excellent overall photographic history of the Playmate...	A fantastic photographic book.  Hugh Hefner showed his excellent taste in women by having the Playmate and now he shares the lovely ladies for every man to enjoy and reminise.  From 1954 to 1996 it is a fantastic journey  down memory lane to revist not only the photographs of EVERY Playmate, but  see a glimpse into their personal life as well.  It is also interesting to  see the changes in hairstyle, fashion, and even measurements of the  Playmate through the years.  Yet one thing remains the same, and that is  the beauty that each one of them have.  Hef defintely gives male's around  the world a gift when he authorized this photographic journey of the  beautiful women of Playboy.  Highly recommended.	2000-01-22
US	50736803	R32V8Z5GSEPHJQ	0306806894	793188283	Panzer Leader	Books	5	10	12	N	N	A great book by a fearless soldier of WWII	This is a great book by a brilliant strategist and soldier of WWII.  Guderian tells his military life with straight forward bluntness that is typical of General's who have seen the face of war and combat first hand.  His tactics of &quot;Achtung Panzer!&quot; and of defeating and defending  against the Soviet Army during WWII is rivoting.  A loyal soldier to  Germany Guderian makes no apology for fighting for the  &quot;Fatherland&quot; yet you can tell that he was no &quot;loyal  Nazi&quot; either.  He was just a soldier doing his duty as he saw best.  But overall this is the type of General and Panzer leader that the allies  feared, especially the Soviets. As a final comment, it would of been very  interesting to see how the allies would of done at Normandy, if Guderian  was there and if he would of had full authority to let the tanks and  Panzergrenadiers loose at the allies after DDay.  The allies are indeed  fortunate they never had to go against Guderian or the soldiers under his  command.	2000-01-18
US	50736803	R2J8MH9W4WZBP7	0520203135	350886450	The Greco-Persian Wars	Books	5	18	22	N	N	A thorough study of ancient adversaries	Peter Green does an excellent job explaining the background of Greece and Persia which led to the Greco-Persian wars.  His points of view and comments are right on the mark when he describes the generals, politicians  and common soldiers that were caught up in this war.  It is amazing how  these Greek city states were able to have an alliance with each other, when  they barely got along in the first place.  It is true that feuds are  forgotten when a common and daunting adversary is threatening an existance  of the empire.  Green's analysis of the Battle of Marathon are chilling as  one of the reviewers noted.  An amazing triumph for the Greeks, who were  outmanned by a large degree.  I recommend this book to any student,  researcher or casual history enthusiast of Ancient Greece.  Highly  recommended.	2000-01-15
US	50736803	RUQ7R4ZZ5MUI5	0440178002	191357398	Shogun (Asian Saga)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The brilliant tale of Medieval Japan	A totally mesmorizing, engrossing, imaginative, adventurous, lively, fascinating..(not enough words to describe) wonderful story of medieval Japan.  This is a novel that belongs in the top 100 if not top 20 of the  best novels of the millenium.  James Clavell opened alot of western eyes  (just as Commodore Perry did) about Japan when he wrote this novel in 1975.  What a tale that is told.  Blackthorne the sea-pilot, Mariko the  Interpreter, Yabu the vassal/warloard, Ishido-the rutheless mortal enemy,  and finally TORRINAGA the SHOGUN are just few of the fascinating characters  that are in this story.  This is a story that is complex from beginning to  end, one can't skip any chapters, however the reader will not want to skip  ANY page.  Clavell definitely did his homework when he wrote this book.  Japanese culture, traditions, style and society are told with rich detail.  This book really takes the reader to 16th century Japan. Wow..I wish this  had more than 5 stars as a rating.  It is definitely 5 PLUS stars...An  immortal classic!	2000-01-08
US	50736803	R2678CBSW8CMZT	0439136350	667539744	Harry Potter And The Prisoner Of Azkaban	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A fantastic read for all ages!	I'm 35 years old and I first heard about this series when I saw the Rosie O'donell show. Rosie recommended this so enthusiastically, that I had to see what it was all about.  WOW! I wasn't dissapointed.  What a magical  journey!  Rowling makes Harry so human and yet such a wizard with great  potential.  Full of wonderful imagination and spirit I highly recommend  this book to people who enjoy C.S. Lewis's &quot;Chronicles of Narnia&quot;  J.R.R. Tolkien's &quot;Lord of the Ring Series&quot; or David Eddings  &quot;The Mallorian Series&quot;...Oh the heck with it...ANYONE with a  &quot;heart of a child&quot; and love to be swept away in pure delightful  immagination will love this book.  This will be rated as a CLASSIC series  right up there with the author's I named above...And for all you Muggles  who aren't kids at heart..it is YOUR loss for not liking this series!  :)	2000-01-02
US	50736803	RAK4WQR8UNZ93	0060931752	253922099	The Way You Wear Your Hat: Frank Sinatra and the Lost Art of Livin'	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A great insight to the King of Cool's thoughts and beliefs	What a great book!  I have read this twice already and didn't put it down until the wee hours of the morning.  To read this is to almost be talking to Mr. Sinatra one on one.  The author did a great job to give the reader  the essance of Sinatra and see what made him &quot;Tick&quot;.  His views  on friends, enemies and lovers is blunt, honest to the point and quite  refreshing in this day of political correctness.  Alot of important details  about how Sinatra looked and dressed are emphasized and are quite valuable  to the overall picture.  The heydays of the ratpack, relationship with Ava  Gardner, Marilyn Monroe and his last love..his wife, are told with a tinge  of regret and admiration, but lovingly honest as well.  The man admitted  his flaws but his style and personality made his admirers overlook them.  I  recommend this to anyone who wants to know what the late night swing life  of the 1950's-early 60's were like.  A fantastic read!  Kudos to the  author.	2000-01-02
US	50736803	RZUXGWHPOVVOY	0385007515	165977133	'Salem's Lot	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Salem's Lot-A place you don't want to live in.....	I consider this his greatest book along with THE STAND.  He spins a yarn of terror that will keep the reader gripped in his tale long into the night.  His description of Jerusalem's Lot (Salem's Lot) makes you feel  like one of the inhabitants and then you go up to the Marsten House, a  place that nightmares begin from.  King's description of Straker and Marlow  are truely mesmorizing in a terrifying way.  I consider Salem's Lot to be  among one of the 10 greatest Horror Novels of all time.  Wouldn't it be  delightful if King made a sequel to this tale?	1999-12-29
US	50736803	R11W13UZ70TDBH	0060914130	257644857	The Knight in History (Medieval Life)	Books	5	43	44	N	N	A fantastic analysis of the everyday life of a Knight	Since I have an interest in the Middle Ages (900AD-1500AD) I was recommended this book by a history professor, and I wasn't dissapointed.  This is an interesting analysis of the Knights in Medieval Society not only  of England and France, but Europe in general.  Easy to read, analytical and  comprehensive this explains the initiation, rituals, valor and hardship  that the Knight had to endour everyday.  The author(s) have written many  outstanding books of the middle ages and this is a welcome addition to the  series they have written.  A MUST have book for anyone studying the middle  ages or the casual reader who picks it up in a store or library.	1999-12-27
US	50736803	R6VUWBDI84GDZ	0399144935	33493017	Every Man a Tiger	Books	2	12	26	N	N	A good book about a soldier by an arrogant jerk	This is a good book by an unfortunately arrogant jerk who has patted himself on the back to many times about being a so called &quot;military expert&quot;.  I have met Mr. Clancy when I was stationed in the Navy in  Groton, CT. When I met Mr. Clancy he was to busy spouting off who he knew  in the Government to someone in the line.  Then he gave me a come hither  look when he signed the book &quot;Sum of All Fears&quot; and just as  arrogantly didn't say anything when I complimented him on his works.  This  is NOT the ONLY TIME he has done this to people but has done this many  times to his fans.  Yes he is a good author but unfortunately when you meet  him you meet a pompous self righteous know it all who is not the voice of  the US Navy, but just another lucky author who was graced with good timing  and good publishers.	1999-12-26
US	50736803	R1XY4GNOWGOQB8	0938289780	722194018	Devil's Crown: A History Of Henry Ii And His Sons (Medieval Military Library)	Books	5	24	26	N	N	A great history of Henry II and his sons	This is a great book of Henry and the relationship and political intrigue he had with his sons.  Not only does this describe the conflicts he had with his sons Richard and John but also of Eleanor of Aquantaine and Thomas  Becket.  Henry was a King to be admired for his smart political skill but  also to be pitied for his mistrust of his family.  The interesting thing  about his mistrust of his family as the book points out, it saved his life  and thus made Henry II one of the greatest English Kings.	1999-12-25
US	50736803	R2QLSF3PGU969G	0375501916	637630453	Faith of My Fathers	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A straight forward and honest account of the heroic McCains	This is a gripping read that tells both the good and bad of this heroic family and their history with the U.S. Navy.  Senator McCain tells the experiences with honesty, admitting his flaws, yet telling the way the Navy  is without &quot;glossing over&quot; the less than favorable memories. A  great overview of the life and accomplishments of his grandfather and  father, brave, yet very human heroes of WWII.  Being a Navy Veteran (15  years of service) I can readily identify with the frustrations that the  Senator had while serving in the Navy.  The problems of yesterday still  plague the Navy today.  Senator McCain's account as a prisoner of war in  Vietnam is spoken with honesty and a depth of soul searching that all the  POW's went thru.  This is not a book to give himself a pat on the back, but  a book that &quot;shoots from the hip&quot; and tells it like it is (and  was)...I highly reccomend this book to anyone who is interested in 20th  Century Military History and the life of this hero from Arizona.	1999-12-15
US	50736803	R1YCIRBOQAAQYO	0520084969	290947883	Moorish Spain	Books	5	32	35	N	N	An effective work about life in Medieval (Andalucia) Spain	I have been fortunate enough to live near and visit the sights presented in this book.  The author gives insightful and consise analogies to the everyday life, economic, religious, cultural, artistic, military power of  the Moors of Medieval Southern (Andalucian) Spain.  Visiting the cities of  Valencia, Granada, Sevilla, Cordoba, Jerez, Cadiz, Puerto de Santa Maria,  Rota etc.  This book compliments these grand and old cities excellently.  If one wants to see what the Moorish/Muslim influence of the past and  present of Spanish Culture were and are today. I highly recommend this  book.	1999-12-09
US	50736803	R2KFKMX6D51Y2E	0691008531	279706246	Soldiers of Destruction	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A great analytical and personal view of a Waffen SS Division	An excellent book that describes the strengths and weaknesses of the Death's Head Division, from its organization in 1933 to its surrender in 1945. A must read to any enthusiast of the European/Eastern Front reader of  WWII.  This divsion certainly deserves to stand out (regardless if it was a  Nazi SS divsion) as one of the best the allies encountered during WWII as  well as the Das Reich, Legionstandarte Adolf Hitler and Afrika Korps...	1999-12-02
US	50736803	R1QCF3NO1XBY26	0700609342	275186270	Stonewall of the West: Patrick Cleburne and the Civil War (Modern War Studies)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The definitive book about one of the CSA'S best generals	This is a fine work done about one of the best and unfortunately overlooked generals not only of the Confederacy but the Civil War. The author does a great job explaining Cleborne's background before the Civil  War and his military experience with the British Army.  The author does  Cleborne justice and tells not only his strengths but flaws as well.  Patrick Cleborne was tragically killed at the Battle Of Franklin because of  the vanity of John Bell Hood and not only did the south lose a fine General  who knew his stuff, but a fine and gallant gentleman as well.  Kudos to the  author.	1999-11-28
US	50736803	R33ZZLKRF0QNJ2	1855327929	291142999	Alexander the Great: His Armies and Campaigns 334-323 BC (Special Editions (Military))	Books	4	12	12	N	N	A good overview of Alexander's army	This is a good reference guide to one who wants to know more about Alexander the Great's army. The book is efficient in illustrations and text about the daily life of being in his army.  Though i wouldn't recommend  this as the definitive book of Alexander's army, it is a good stepping  stone to read and search for a more complete book that could fill in the  blanks left buy reading this.	1999-11-28
US	50736803	RGQTP7VQS30FL	0520034945	698231210	Henry II (English Monarchs)	Books	5	8	11	N	N	A fine book about an unforgettable king	A fine overview about one of the most important but overlooked Kings in English History.  The author does a fine job detailing the important historical aspects of Henry II, such as his relationship with Elenor of  Aquantaine, with his sons Richard the Lionheart and John.  Good pictures  also accompany this book which was a tremendous help to the landscape and  the tombs of Henry and Elenor. I didn't know that they are buried in  France, I thought all English Kings were buried in G.B. Overall a great  book that is highly recommended.	1999-11-27
US	50736803	R3B7OWPVXYQL4V	0520071662	342281020	Alexander of Macedon 356-323 B.C.: A Historical Biography	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A fine book about Alexander's triumphs and life.	I bought this book without knowing much about Alexander's triumphs in the ancient world.  I always knew about the legends of Alexander but not the facts.  This book describes the facts (as well as modern history knows  about the facts) of his triumphs and ultimate death of Alexander.  I look  forward to reading more about Alexander the Great from various authors but  I believe this will be one of the best books about him thus far.	1999-11-21
US	50736803	RCKHX3CQ7JUN2	0684856298	996959617	The VICTORS : Eisenhower and His Boys: The Men of World War II	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A great finale for the struggle from Normandy to Berlin	Mr Ambrose has done a great finale of his series of books covering the European Theatre of War fm 1939-1945, I highly reccomend this book as a review of his earlier books about the subject.  But this is only PART ONE  of WWII.  I hope Mr Ambrose or some other Historian will bring the PACIFIC  theatre of war with the same attention and compassion for those soldiers,  sailors and marines as Ambrose did with the soldiers of the European  theatre...Cmon Mr Ambrose your work is only half finished, turn now to the  Pacific!	1999-11-21
