US	50744505	RZU4AQR313B2F	0425198243	55431338	Incubus Dreams (Anita Blake Vampire Hunter)	Books	1	79	83	N	N	The Horror! Oh, The Horror!	Hi, my name is Miss Amii, and I am a masochist. I keep reading Laurell K Hamilton's Anita Blake series even though the last five installments aren't worth reading. I read Guilty Pleasures in one day. Contrast that to the THREE YEARS it took me get passed Narcissus in Chains, and after getting to the halfway point of Incubus Dreams, I can guarantee that this book will never be finished.  <br />People have pretty much said almost everything there is too say about this novel: no plot, ridiculous levels of pointless, skanky sex, awful characters, even more powers for the already God-like Anita... But as I closed the cover on my last book by this author ever ('cuz quite frankly, I don't care if she has a comeback later. Her treatment of this series and her fans is just too appalling.) it finally hit me why the Anita Blake series has failed. All the pointless sex is just a cover for the fact that this series has failed to evolve! <br />I mean in the beginning Anita was a smug, self-righteous, emotionally immature, violent and abrasive woman, but we forgave her flaws because she fought the good fight. Now just about every flaw she has been multiplied by 10, she's a hypocrite and uses people ruthlessly on top of everything else, and she only fights the good fight if she isn't busy getting every opening on her body plugged with supernatural male-private-parts.  <br />As much as everyone giving this mess five stars crows that Anita has evolved out of her \\"formula\\" of solving the supernatural mystery she's presented with, certainly when everything Anita does is ultimately just an excuse for that stupid arduer to rear its ugly head and get Anita involved in yet another sex sandwich the novels have fallen into just a different formula. And speaking of this pattern of action, arduer, orgy, traces of the old Anita Blake series is there. It's just it seems like just when something of significance is about to happen, the action stalls in its tracks so Anita can be serviced by one ofher worshipful harem members. So far, Anita has gone to a crime scene, had a meeting with clients at her workplace, and had a fight with a vampire at a night club. The ideas are there, but oops! her comes the arduer, and everyone gets sidetracked by Anita's wonderful gushing fingernail ripping orgasm, and the plot threads are never heard from again. <br />Seriously, this series is just going around in circles. The issues and themes this series has explored since the beginning have never been answered or resolved. \\"Who are the monsters?\\" \\"Am I a monster?\\" \\"Can I still be a good girl when I sleep with monsters?\\" \\"What is love?\\" Blah, blah, as someone described this endless psychoanalysis as the \\"therapy chair\\" these issues had been run into the ground because frankly Anita is not good at making decisions and sticking with them. I mean, what is this, the third time Anita Blake and her off again on again boyfriend Richard have gotten back together? Relationships are never resolved because ultimately Anita shoves her guys into the nice little cubbyhole where she wants them, the status quo is maintained, and the author tries to fool us into thinking otherwise by shoving major plot points aside and replacing it with something else. How else can you explain the absolute laziness of placing the triumvirate of Anita-Jean Claude-Richard on the backburner to explore a ridiculous and poorly thought-out triumvirate of Anita and throbbing twitching erections #13 and # 24.... I mean Nathaniel and Damien other than being a reason to have Anita have yet another threeway with even more underdeveloped guys. <br />The same bait and switch tactics I mentioned above also apply to Micah, the most wussy and useless were-animal leader ever who is Anita's empty \\"soul-mate\\". I mean what has he contributed to this series besides being a perfect lap dog (or cat) for Anita and having certain parts that would make a bull envious?   <br /> <br />This is getting kind of long and I could probably write a book the size of Incubus Dreams to explain just how much of a burning wreck this series has become, so I'll just briefly touch on some of the other stuff that made me laugh or snort: <br />1) Men who cry when Anita Blake denies them access to her something that rhymes with \\"Carolina\\". <br />2) Not only is it the best \\"Carolina\\" in the world, it has magical powers that can make you look like Brad Pitt <br />3) How ironic it is that while Anita Blake bristles under the male, patriarchal establishment or the MAN, she is the biggest misogynist in this series. She can barely behave civilly around other women. <br />4) Anita has sex on the floor with Damien while a couple of her harem members look on. I kept hoping they'd hold up scorecards. And the description of the \\"mess\\" on the floor made me feel queasy. <br />5) Hamilton has a style for writing sex that I'd normally appreciate as she doesn't use vulgarity or purple euphemisms, but she has a talent for making the sex as painful as possible.	2005-08-07
US	50744505	RIBJBBYI1JFMQ	0312934327	592337269	Sins of the Night (Dark-Hunter, Book 8)	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Maybe Not A Sin, But Not A Success Either....	Well, since Amazon for some reason decided to delete almost all of the less than four-star reviews of this book, I'm having to retype this review. Luckily, I always keep copies of my work so Amazon won't get rid of me that easily. <br /> <br />For the most part, I really enjoy Sherrilyn Kenyon's work. Certainly, the quality of some her other series has been really shaky (and there are a ton of them), but you can usually count of the Dark Hunters series to deliver an exceptional read. I have never been dissapointed with a true Dark Hunter book... until now. Such a shame as I was looking forward to the first book with a female Dark Hunter. It's not a bad book, but after such intense and well-crafted previous installments in the series this one just doesn't measure up. Not once was I particularly moved by the plight of the characters, even when they are dealing with some serious stuff. I'll explain in a minute. <br /> <br />In the last book, I complained about the messy loopy plot. Here, thankfully, the plot is much tigher, but as a trade-off, the characterization suffers greatly. Alexion is Acheron's, the Dark Hunter leader, \\"squire\\". When word reaches Ash that that Kyros, a Mississippi Dark Hunter, has struck an unholy alliance with daimon general Stryker, and is stirring up a rebellion with rumors of Ash being a daimon, Alexion is dispatched to diffuse the situtation. If that fails, he will execute all parties involved. Alexion is also a Shade, the ghost of a Dark Hunter who fell in battle and is cursed to live between life and death, meaning he can only live on Earth for a few days. He teams up with Danger, a female Dark Hunter who is initially suspicious of his motives. She's not sure who she should trust, if anyone, but eventually sides with Alexion and Ash. She and Alexion fall in love over the course of the adventure, of course, but how but can a Shade have a relationship with anyone... let alone a woman who is sworn to spend eternity battling evil? <br /> <br/>The plot actually makes for a compelling story, as does the side plot about Simi's relatives, and brings to light some interesting facts about the mysterious Acheron, but characterization of the main characters is where Kenyon falls asleep at the wheel. Usually, she is very good about slowly revealing the character's histories, playing her hand close to the breast and giving relevant and often suprising facts with perfect timing. Here she takes her bucket O' characterization and just dumps everything at the readers' feet. Before the fourth chapter you will no everything there is to know about these characters. I mean Alexion already knows Danger's entire history and is infatuated with her before he ever comes to Earth. Kenyon has been trying to build up the mystery about Alexion's true identity for several months on the website that serves as a supplement to the series, but completely ruins it by giving it away before the first page of the story is turned in the novel's preface. That's not the characterizations only problem, as Alexion is by far this series most lifeless and bloodless hero. His flat personality doesn't do much to infuse him with any sex appeal, and sometimes he even comes across as downright unsexy. He's kind of like a Ken doll. Great physique, but still plastic and artificial at the end of the day. Danger isn't much better. She reads exactly like the heroines who have come before. Shouldn't someone whose lived as long as she has and experienced what she has have well... a little more meat to her? And as for her battle prowess... Tabitha Deveraux came across as tougher and more impressive. When these two are together without anything plot related together, the story is dead in the water. <br /> <br />I have to concurr that the book feels like a stepping stone to Ash's story as he feels like the main character at time and he rarely even appears in the book! His novel can't come soon enough, because though I'm sure it'll be a good read, he's starting to feel like a deus-ex-machina plot device that becoming an albatross around the series neck. After what happened at the end of Seize the Night where he turns a dark ending into a they all lived happily ever after- well except for Nick ending, I could never take the grave and mortal peril Alexion and Danger were experiencing seriously. Even though they do the \\"this love is impossible\\" song and dance, never once did I believe Asheron wouldn't come in and make everything better. In earlier books, being a Shade was said to be just about the worst thing that could happen to a person, so the consequences were dire if a Dark Hunter failed a his mission. Here it's revealed that Ash fixed it so the penalty for becoming a shade is actually very mild. Well, since I think fiction is much more exciting, and I don't think ANY genre ever should get a pass on this, when there is an element of uncertaintity to it. The characters can succeed or fail, and they experience the consequences of what happens to them. With Acheron here to play Cosmic Lifeguard for everybody, it just sucks out that element of uncertaintity or even the need to make sacrafices to reach the goal- such as having to choose between love and eternal life and ultimately having to lose neither. No matter how much these characters fret and assure me that the situation is dire, I can't take it seriously. <br /> <br />I eagerly read this book in two night, but it is a weak entry into the series. It's interesting plot and revelations about Ash make it a must for long time readers, but the tepid leads make it a poor choice for newbies to start with.	2005-07-20
US	50744505	R2T9VQSDJSIV70	0505526107	195528557	Divine Fire	Books	3	6	9	N	N	One Thousand Volt British Poet!	You know reading Divine Fire reminds me of why I think that paranormal romances just may be the last bastian of true creativity in the genre ( although I still think there is a lot of untapped potential... like how about a real horror romance hybrid?). I would have loved to have been a fly on the wall when Melanie Jackson first pitched Devine Fire, as she informs us at the back of the novel was originally called Lord Byron Vs. Frankenstien, to her editor. Now I believe Jackson may be one of the most daring and original voices in the romance genre, after all she was responsible for the sublime dark fantasy Traveler, but originality doesn't automatically gaurentee success. Divine Fire is original, but it's not really well-utilized. <br />Part of the reason for my luke-warm reception to the novel is that I don't particularly care for romances to star actual historical figures. Usually, the author will try to white wash the less pleasant and noble aspects of their lives and present them as poor people that were misunderstood by history. That's not the case here. Jackson pretty much stays close to the facts (as far as I know anyway) of the life of Lord Byron instead of trying to pull a fast one and trying to make it so that people only thought he cheated on his wife... alot. The real problem I have is that I just came not reconcile Lord Byron with his modern day persona Damien Ruthven, and I, unlike the author, have no facination with this historical figure's mystique. I don't even particularly care for British literature, and that includes (heresy of heresies) Jane Austen. <br />Let me explain: Instead of dying in Greece like everyone thought, Lord Byron is still alive and has been for two hundred years. In a desperate attempt to cure his epilepsy, Lord Byron underwent a strange medical procedure concocted by an insane German doctor obsessed with bringing the dead back to life. Using the power of St. Elmo's Fire, Byron was been able to extended his own life. Living in New York, Byron now lives as Damien Ruthven, a harsh book critic, and becomes facinated with Brice Ashton (she's a woman I assure you), a researcher who has written a brillantly insightful monster of a biography on Byron. Damien feels like this is closest anyone has ever come to understanding him in ages (methinks this is wishful thinking on the author's part), and invites her to his place to allow her access to some of his papers, not really intending to reveal his secret. They fall in love, and the insane doctor arrives with an army of zombies and attacks them. I'm not kidding.  <br />Like I said before, it's hard to reconcile Byron with Damien Ruthven. To guard his secret, Damien/Byron hasn't written a word since his suposed death, not even privately. His career as a book reviewer just seems there so Jackson can go on a pithy rant about the evils of book reviewers. I frankly hate it when authors do this because in my view, after a person has shelled out cash for a book they aught to be able to use it for toilet paper if they want, not to mention it sounds self-congratulatory. Anyway, Jackson's depiction of Byron's circle of friends, some of the periods greatest rebels, originals, and subversives, and at times Byron himself, comes across as outright prudish. And really, what's the point of putting Byron in a romance novel if you are going to take the rebelliousness out of the rebel. Anne Rice did that to Lestat in the conclusion of her Vampire Chronicles and look how well that turned out.      <br />I'm not really enthralled with Brice either. She comes across as a stodgy sad-sack, and I'm not sure how she's supposed to be the woman who returns 'fire and life to his soul' or whatever. Her personality veers around wildly as the story progresses. During the first love scene, she's rather undisturbed by the fact that Damien glows in the dark and discharges energy like an electric eel and calls the life prolonging proceedure a miracle, but later on in the story she's sure her boyfriend is an abomination before God and even a bit evil like the crazy zombie doctor! Nothing like having a bit of faith in your lover's character... <br />The parts with the zombies and the crazy doctor are suspenseful and chilling, but they come on a little abruptly. This sub-plot was hinted at before hand in the dialogue, but it still seems to come on a bit out of the blue. <br />Divine Fire is ultimately a disapointment. It's an original concept hobbled by a tepid romance and pacing problems. It looks like this might be the first part of series. Hopefully,  the next book will use this idea with better success.	2005-06-09
US	50744505	R2O47KBZWSC2YE	1595820124	832214217	Vampire Hunter D, Vol. 1	Books	4	3	7	N	N	Vampire Hunters are Like Glasses of Orange Juice....	Vampire Hunter D is something of a cult classic among anime fans. Back in the early days of North American fandom the first Vampire Hunter D movie was a well-loved favorite, something like a less well-known Akira or Ghost in the Shell. I remember seeing back in the day. It was an alright but unmemorable movie, as my one clear memory is of it is an unintensionally funny scene where the hero is fleeing the vampire's collapsing castle, but is animated in such a way that he appears to be hopping on one leg. Vampire Hunter D is the novel that inspired the movie of the same name. Honestly, this is a novel I should not have enjoyed as much as I did. This novel is heavy on the pulp, and I, as a reader of quality books, should be above such things. On the other hand it is a rather exciting and action packed vampire yarn, and I'm a sucker for those.  <br />Vampire Hunter D is an primarily a horror novel, but contains traces of the science fiction and western genres. Set far ahead in the future, mankind once came to the brink of extinction after a nuclear war. Civilization was all but wiped out with what was left regressing back to the Dark Ages, and the few survivors were terrorized by the monsters spawned by the radiation. It was in this climate that the vampires, the Nobility, came to subjugate the humans with their preternatural abilities and super technology. Ten thousand years later, the vampires are the ones facing extintion as humanity gets back on its feet. In fact the only places where the Nobility can terrorize at will are in the fly-speck towns dotting the Frontier.  <br />     This story begins with a rough, frontierswoman named Doris Lang hiring on a mysterious drifter, known only as \\"D\\", to kill Count Magnus Lee, the Noble who bit her and plans to make her his undead bride. D is a vampire hunter with a fearsome reputation of being a skilled fighter as well as being part vampire himself. In D, the flavor of the western genre is the strongest. He is basically the\\"man with no name\\" character who blows into town, takes out the bad guys, and leaves without revealing his mysterious past. That is one of this novel's biggest weaknesses. The personality of the main character is deader than the vampires he slays. Some references are made to D running from his past and his agony at being half-vampire social outcast (by the way, this author is big on telling instead of showing), but beyond that the characterization of D, or any of the other characters, is no deeper than a thimble. By the end of the story, all I know about D is that he's really pretty (a fact that author makes note of every chance he gets), chicks dig him, and he's really strong. Doris is the tough but vulnerable damsel in distress, whose virginity is noted way more times than is necessary. The vampires are evil and the townsfolks are supersitious and greasy.  <br />Thankfully, the story focuses mainly on action instead of any kind of character-driven drama. The action is were this novel shines. There are very few dull moments. The Frontier is a dangerous place and the characters must do battle with werewolves, vampires, mutant bandits, and other imaginitive creatures. What could have been a very straight forward plot is made more interesting and tense as threats come from more than one source. <br />The writing is less than stellar, and I'm not going to blame that on the fact that this is a translated work. This is purely pulp vampire story written during the early eighties, with author freely admitting his inspiration was the campy vampire movies of the black and white film days, so its not hard to imagine that the original Japanese was written in the same pulpy manner as Western scifi/fantasy pulp material of the same period. <br />All in all, Vampire Hunter D is good enough novel that should provide an evening or two worth of entertainment. I know I read it in one night and am looking forward to the next. Hopefully, over the series' fourteen books, it will evolveinto something bit more poetic and .... meaty. Vampire Hunter D is like a glass of orange juice. It's sharp, full of pulp, and you wouldn't want to drink it all the time but it tastes nice in the morning.  <br />	2005-06-05
US	50744505	R2SGHCRST9YB14	0821776827	777117898	Night's Kiss	Books	3	20	24	N	N	This Kiss Has Some Suprises....	In the past I've had some very harsh words for Amanda Ashley. I've complained many times about her lack of awareness of the pedophilish elements of her vampire books with their sugar daddy vampire heroes and clueless barbie doll heroines. I've belly-ached about the barebones descriptions, characterization, and plot. At best, I find Ashley's work to mediocre, but I will give her credit where credit is due. This book really managed to suprise me in a good way. Admittedly, I skipped the book were she wrote about the Gerard Butler clone living under some sweet young lonely virgin's house, but if it contains any of the stronger elements of Night's Kiss I may have to dig it up. <br />Night Kiss features another one of Ashley's standard heroes this time baring the name Roshan DeLongspre (where does she get these names?). He's old, bored, and suicidal. On the night he finally decides to kill himself, he becomes facinated by an obsecure historical footnote in one of the books in his vast library. It tells the story of Brenna Flanagan, a beautiful young Irish woman who was burned at the stake in the early 1700's. He's capivated by her beauty, and decides to travel back in time and save her. He brings her back with him to the present, and they proceed to fall in love (although Roshan seems way more interested in her hymen than her gentle spirit). However, they are both stalked by sorcerer who seeks the secrets of immortality.    <br />This is no timeless love story, but it makes for a decent fluff read. Roshan is bland for a vampire whose lived so long and the sub-plot about the sorcerer is about as scary as a toenail clipping. It's the heroine that makes this novel readable. You see the reason I've always found Ashley's work distasteful in past is because the love story was always about some girly-girl with Paris Hilton's body and a hamster's brain worshipfully adoring the much older vampire daddy figure. Love at its most girly, immature, and creepiest. Fortunately, Brenna isquite the spit-fire, a great change from the meek jelly-fish spined creatures who cowered if the hero so much as raised his voice. She's not a particularly deep character, but she's easy to sympathize with. I finished off this novel quickly, and while I have no great urge to visit it again in the future, I found it a pleasant read that is worth a look for fans of the sub-genre.	2005-06-05
US	50744505	R1GP7R0EDR3EIN	0451458540	680062402	Once Upon a Winter's Night	Books	2	17	24	N	N	I Once Knew A Girl Named Mary Sue...	In case you aren't familiar with the term, I'm going to take a moment to explain what \\"Mary Sue\\" means because I have a feeling I'm going to using this phrase of awful lot. A Mary Sue refers to one of those irritating characters that appear in a work of fiction, not as a well balanced characters, but as some sort of overly idealized place holder for the author or reader to live out some vicarious fantasy through. A female Mary Sue usually is an impossibly beautiful and perfect waif with a dramatic name like Auroraphina Westlake. She's dainty and feminine to the point of fainting at her own shadow, she can do anything without exerting any effort, and love, wealth, and all the good things in life just fall into her lap. Every one loves her. Anyone we doesn't think Mary Sue should be cannonized is evil incarnate and lives to make her all teary eyed. That is Mary Sue. That description perfectly fits the main character Camille. Camille starts the story off as a poor girl who lives in shack with her whipped father (who she loves to bits), her shrewish mother, and her bratty sisters who are jealous of Camille. By and large, the female relatives will be punished severly by the end of the novel. Camille is cheerful and basically dances about with her head of la-la land, but lo! one night a bear comes to the cabin with a marriage proposal from Prince Alain of Summerwood. Camille, who frankly doesn't have much going on upstairs, is not at all afraid of marrying some guy she's never meet before and marrying the prince would make the family happy, so off she goes with the bear. They must travel through scary goblin-infested woods and Camille says embarrassing stuff like \\"Protect me, Oh Bear!\\" Seriously, people in this novel don't speak so much as make flowerly dramatic declarations like a 3rd grade class trying to do Shakespear. <br />When she finally meets her groom-to-be, he is this guy who never appears during the day and always wears a mask. Prince Alain is the male equivalent as of the Mary Sue as imagined by a twelve year old girl. Impossibly sauve, perfect, polite, and mysterious, Alain is the mister right fantasy incarnated at its most girliest. They fall instantly in love, and the audience is treated to a scene where they consumate the relationship that made me feel like I was reading the X-rated version of the Carebears. However, even these carnal activities can not lessen the saintly aura of our Mary Sues. However, the happiness is not to last and Camille's stupidity activates a goblin curse and Alain is kidnapped. Camille is left with the task of finding Alain in a year and a day. Camille's quest is just as dull as the romance. Camille is Mary Sue remember, meaning there is no way she can fail. When she's presented with an obstacle she can dues ex-machina up some skill to get around or she gets all teary eyed as some giant, elf stud, or fairy will show up and help her.  <br />All and all, Once Upon a Winter's Night is a boring fantasy novel that feels like something a lonely pre-teen would post of fanfiction.net instead of the work a seasoned fantasy writer. It's tension free, shallow, and bursting at the seams with over-wraught and ridiculous drama. If not for the adult scenes with Alain and Camille this would fit write well in young adult fiction, because frankly I can't imagine anyone other than young girls not being bored to death by Mary Sue.	2005-06-03
US	50744505	R563WHP5O1GLH	045146009X	694273282	Sister of the Dead (The Noble Dead)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	The Hendees Have Just Rendered Laurell Hamilton Irrelevant	Once, I was a big fan of Laurell K Hamilton's Anita Blake series. I don't consider myself to be one any more seeing as Hamilton decided that having orgies with vampires was more interesting than killing them. I consider it no big loss because about the time that Hamilton completely lost the plot Barb and JC Hendee published Dhampir, the story of Magiere and Leesil, two con-artists turned vampire slayers. Their story continues in Sister of the Dead, the third installment in the series. <br />    In this novel, Magiere and Leesil, accompanies by Chap, the fey dog, and Wynn, the scholar, return to the place of Magiere's birth to uncover the secrets of her birth. There they discover a history of murder, blood, and necromancy as they come closer and closer to discovering the purpose and true nature of the unnatural Dhampir. Of course this trip is no Sunday drive as our vampire hunters face off against insane peasants, undead sorcerers, and the vampire duo of Chane and Welstiel Massing, leading to some very exciting action scenes.  <br />    An action-packed story with skillful characterization, this series has quickly become my favorite fantasy/action series. The romance between Magiere and Leesil is very endearing without being smaltzy and does not overpower everything else. The only bad thing is that we have to wait another whole year to see what happens next.	2005-01-23
US	50744505	R1PREOXURKO1KL	0312992432	576321484	Seize the Night (Dark-Hunter, Book 7)	Books	4	7	13	N	N	Everything I Hoped For	There are few things more exciting than a Dark-Hunter novel. I figured Kenyon owes me big for the complete disaster that was Night Play, which many fans loved for having an overweight heroine (completely ignoring the fact that the only thing that keeps Bride from conforming completely to the ugly stereotype of overwight people as unhappy, socially inept losers is her lack of intreset in Star Trek). I will admit that when the couple from Night Play made a cameo I blanched, but fortunately Tabitha is a complete 180 from Bride and a very fun and refreshing character.  <br />I really enjoyed the relationship between Tabitha Deveraux, the vampire hunting twin sister of Amanda, and Dark-Hunter Valerius Magnus. I think the evolution of the relationship is probably the most skillfully done one that has appeared in this series. There is actually that getting-to-know-you thing going on before they start lusting after each other like there is no tomorrow. Tabitha was a real surprise. She maybe a bit flighty and eccentric, but she is very loyal and surprisingly well-read. The thing I like best about her is that even though she has a scar on her face from a past scurmish with a daimon, she doesn't spend the entire novel obsessing over it. Valerius is equally entertaing. A bit stuffy and snobbish, Valerius is Tabitha's exact opposite and its very fun to watch how their personalities play off one another. <br />While I absolutely loved the main romance, I found the plot a bit of a mess. Apparently, Desiderius, the evil super-daimon from the first novel, is kinda back from the dead and looking for a body. The Spathi Daimons want to kidnap Kyrian and Amanda's psychic uber-baby, and Apollymi the Destroyer wants out of her prison. Somehow it all ties in together, but I just could not follow it. Not to mention I thought bringing back an old Big Nasty back from the dead was rather cheap as well as deus ex machina-ing immortality on all the main characters past and present in the story.However, Kenyon really shows that the war against the daimons is escalating into something big as bad things (including death) are allowed to happen to some of the characters we've gotten to know. I also thought that Zerek acted really out of character at the end of this novel. When he last appeared in Kiss of the Night and in earlier parts of this book, love hadn't mellowed Zerek out that much as he was still bad-tempered and surly. I can't believe that he would just give up his grudge against Valerius so easily and suddenly start acting like everything was hugs and kisses. <br />I also wish that Kenyon hadn't made everyone so over-the-top nasty to Valerius. I guess I can understand why the Greek Dark-Hunters and their friends and family would have such a deep prejudice towards him and Romans in general, but I find it hard to believe that they could make all the others, many of whom were born a long time after Rome callapsed, hate him too. The way Kyrian (who isn't presented in a flattering light in this book) talks you'd think that Valerius was a cruel butcher, completely ignoring the fact he himself was a conqueror and is most certainly not innocent of the very same things he accuses Valerius of. Kenyon also needs to learn how to make her characters deliver barbs and insults better, because (and this is something I noticed in all of her novels) the person making the insult always sounds really immature, like a elementary schooler on the playground. <br />It might seem like I've picked apart of the flaws of this novel, but even though I think they are some really big ones, the good points are strong enough to make this an exceptional read. As this book seems almost like a prelude to bigger things, I'm sure the plot will settle down and be fleshed out better in later novels.  Seize the Night fully redeems Sherrilyn Kenyon in my eyes from the awful Night Play and has restored my excitement and hope of the rest of this series.	2005-01-12
US	50744505	R3Q483K0LV2FPB	0451459520	760489288	Ill Wind: Book One of the Weather Warden	Books	3	7	12	N	N	If only my local weather man were this cool!	The idea behind the weather wardens is very cool. A group of humans have the power to channel the forces of nature, but the price of this power is to be forced to work with a borderline tyrannical orginization that exerts considerable control over your life. With a premise like this, the author could take a number of exciting directions with the plot- the struggle for control of one's own life, battles against villains that could literally rip the earth asunder, ect. But for some Rachel Caine's finished product doesn't seem to gel. The thing that frustrates me is I can't pin-point exactly why. <br />Maybe I don't see why the Djinn need to be in the story. If in Djinn are fire spirits why do people who can channel the weather need them? Sorry, but the Djinn feel too fantastical and extraneous to really fit into this premise.  <br />Maybe it was the fact that Joanne Baldwin, Weather Warden, has been tainted by a demon mark and is being hunted down by her Warden associates. Come on! A demon mark?! This is like the thrid book I've read this month that had one of those. This is another fantastically element that just sticks out like a pumpkin in a cabage patch. <br />Maybe it's because of Joanne's unconvincing romance with David. She picks him up while he's hitch-hiking and never seems to question why he wants to come along for the ride when its clear that she's a dangerous person to hang around with. Since this is told from Jo's point of view, I have no idea what he sees in her. For Joanne's part, all she seems to want to do is sleep with him 'cuz he's sooooo DREAMY! Romance is more than just people sleeping together and going 'I'll love you forever and ever' the next morning. I have to have some idea why they feel the way they do, and I don't see that here.  <br />Maybe its the dues ex machina ending. Big life change for Jo at the end but it barely seems to register. It's really abrupt because no hint was given that Djinn could do THAT anywhere in the book. <br />Maybeits the tiresomely lengthy chapters. This book has only like 4 chapters each one extending 70 to 80 pages long. Could we break it down a little more please? I don't like to put down a book mid-chapter and my time for reading is somewhat limited.	2004-09-03
US	50744505	R2A8DTE58UXKH4	0425188361	549489959	Cerulean Sins (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 11)	Books	2	5	5	N	N	Moral and Creative Bankruptcy. Get Off Your High Horse!	Why two stars? Because Cerulean Sins is readable. Not exactly enjoyable but readable. After finally finishing the non-stop crap-fest that is Narcisus In Chains, I decided to read Cerculean Sins. Originally, I wasn't going to read it because I once jokingly told a friend I would be forever finished with this series when Hamilton gave us the Anita/Richard/Jean Claude threeway. My friend later informed me that this book does have a threeway. With the upcoming paperback release almost here my library finally moved the book out of the New Releases section to the regular shelving meaning that I could have the full three weeks to get through it.  <br />Okay, plot plot plot. Some were-beastie is cutting up people and leaving them in bathtubs. Anita must find out who did it. The vampire council is in town again, so Anita must deal with them too. In between she has lots of skanky sex with all of St. Louis. I think at this point the only people she hasn't boffed yet are Dead Dave and his bartender and that's only because they seem to have droped off the face of the earth. <br />I think part of the reason the book fared slightly well with me is because I'm reconciled that Anita is a complete slut. What I find irritating to the extreme about her is that her character has degressed in moral, emotional, and intellectual maturity. She's like a super-powered teenager with her nasty little tantrums. Disagree with her and she'll kill or, horror of horrors, not spread her legs for you anymore. Anita spends a lot of time whining about her morals, but little to change her situation. Hamilton and Anita seem to have some idea that the character is morally bankrupt, but still insists that Anita is great because God loves her and the universe always shifts so the outcome of Anita's actions are always correct and right and hence good. Perhaps the most perplexing is that even though Anita is aware of her lack of any ethics she still has no problem jumping on her highhorse and looking down on everyone else. I think that Anita just likes feeling superior to people and holding her humanity over everyone else's head. \\"I am human which is good and pure not like you vampires and werewolves so be glad I have sex with you!\\" The worst part is she's got everyone so cowed they never tell her she's wrong. Someone really needs to turn her over their knee and give her spanking. Maybe that would help her atitude problem. <br />The once cool secondary characters have been reduced to little more than cyphers or engorged sex organs for Anita to straddle. Richard is little more than a madman here as he tries to clinge to the idea that the people living in this semi-supernatural underworld can live by something better than the law of the jungle. Of course, Anita shows him! Killing is good! Anita's right! Worship her! I also think that fact she's not having sex with him is the implied as the way he's so crazy, but maybe untreated STDs he got from her are eating his brain. Jean Claude? What happened to him? He is like this barely there de-fanged brother figure. Once again he been shoved to the side as Anita clamors to bed everyone else though as a concilation he does get to share her with Asher. <br />Hamilton needs to stop recycling plots. The Vampire Council is territory we already covered in Circus of the Damned and Burnt Offering. The werewolf murders are like a cross between the brutality of Laughing Corpse and Lunatic Cafe. The pacing is awful too. Remember when LKH could cover a massive amount of territory in under 300 pages? I bet anyone who has a son or newphew or something between 6 and 12 is at least a little familiar with the Dragon Ball Z cartoon. You know the one were muscled men with spiky hair spend 50 episodes preparing for fight, 60 to boast and posture about whose the strongest before the fight, and 200 to actually beat each other up. Anita Blake is starting to resemble that. The books expand in length but very little is acomplished. The freakishly super-powered Anita spends half the book sleeping around or thinking about sex in someway, spend the next two thirds tring to prove how big her testicles are, and rest fighting against her enemies. <br />Even the climatic scenes are lackluster. Anita is way to powerful and she's got so many allies that there is no longer any chance that she could lose. It's not just one woman against the awsome forces of evil, it's a super-witch and her army against things only slightly more evil and Anita can always develope a new power better than the last to finish the job. <br />In this book, it seems like Hamilton is setting the series up to end, and I don't think it comes a minute too soon. I keep hoping someone with beat Anita with a shovel and hopefully this mega-evil Vampire Mama is up for the task.  <br />It's a shame what this series has been reduced to. The only way to give it CPR is if 1) Hamilton goes back in time and writes adventures about Anita's earlier life as vampire hunter or 2) Kill off Anita, the werewolfs and leopards, and JC's group. Do a spin-off starring her ex-friend Ronnie, the wererats, and Malcolm, who takes over as master vampire of the city (Remember him Laurell?)	2004-09-03
US	50744505	RF1RU4DN87BUJ	0345423399	497739972	A Kiss of Shadows (Meredith Gentry, Book 1)	Books	2	11	14	N	N	She ain't called Princess of the Flesh for nothing!	Ever since the Anita Blake series took a wrong turn down Tedious Alley, I've been purposely avoiding the Merry Gentry books because everything I've heard about them idicates that they have all the elements that makes later Anita Blake bad times three. Let's just say that while I didn't hate the book as much as I thought I would, I didn't exactly like it either. See, it's kind of like saying being hit by a truck isn't as painful as I thought it would be. <br />I can sum up the plot of this book in one sentence: Merry Gentry aka Princess Meredith NicEssus must have sex with many beautiful men and have a child before her cousin does to claim the Unseelie Court throne. Sounds more like the premise for an adult movie on CineMax than a plot from the author who was once known for twisting, fast paced plots. If Hamilton wants to write erotica that's perfectly fine, but the problem is her erotica is ridiculously set-up and lots of talk, little action. In short it's boring because of long-winded set-ups that usually end up being a tease and the act itself often will make you cringe or laugh. <br />Meredith is also called Princess of Flesh because of a horrific power in her hand that allows her to reduce people into a gory blob of flesh. I think it's also a pretty accurate moniker becuase this character doesn't have much to her character besides being a heartless ammoral sex-machine. Her conflicts are usually something of the long of how can she get out of having sex with this fey creature and have sex instead with her harem of perfect fey men. It doesn't exactly fill me with sympathy for this character especially when she's so callous that she doesn't care much for the people she does sleep with but absolutely positively refuses to do it with others because they aren't physically pefect.  <br />Her harem of men don't show up until the second half of the book, so they aren't really developed that much beyond one note personalities. There is Galen, Merry's childhood friend whomshe'd really like to bang. There is Doyle, the strong silent protective type. There is Rhys, the charismatic happy-go-lucky one. And there is Frost, the distant one. The one thing they have in common is they are all desperate for sex, some of them having been celibate for several hundred years.  <br />If it seems like I've talked a little to much about the sexual content of this book, I'm sorry but there isn't much else to talk about. Seriously, the plot is just a bunch of often ridiculous events that usally culminate into Merry having sex. Merry has to go on a stakeout for a case her detective agency is working one: Merry gets raped by the suspect and loves every minute of it. Merry goes to police station: She drives the cops mad with lust and is nearly raped again by the entire presinct then goes home to boff a seal man. Merry is on the run from fey assasins: Merry takes time out to have sex with a guy whose got tentacles growing in strange places and is shocked when an assasin interupts them. The ridiculousness of the sex of toned down for the second half but then we go through pages and pages of tedious fey politics that ultimately lead to Merry doing her new harem. As much as I hate to say it, sex is about the only thing to this book and there isn't enough of it.  <br />I'm almost tempted to give this book the lowest rating possible because this tedious dime store erotica spilled into Anita Blake series and completely ruined it, but A Kiss of Shadows isn't quite bottom of the barrel quality. And if Merry \\"Every Hot Guy Wants Me Bad\\" Gentry isn't totally LKH's Mary Sue Avatar I'll eat this book.	2004-09-01
US	50744505	RYZXLJKPYFY5X	0312992424	454259013	Night Play (Dark-Hunter, Book 6)	Books	2	16	30	N	N	Kenyon Bungles Badly. Stick to the Dark-Hunters.	I love Sherrilyn Kenyon's four Dark-Hunter novels that have been released so far. I really think that she should just stick to writing those and abandon these spin-off series. I absolutely detested her short Dream-Hunter story from last year and I don't think this first full length Were-Hunter novel is much better. Many times I almost put the the thing down for I couldn't see the point. Sometimes I would even flip to the back, start reading the teaser from the next DH book, and wish Night Play would magically morph into that one. <br />When Kenyon writes for her Dark-Hunter series I expect cool, action-packed plot lines and characters that leap off the pages. Unfortunately, Night Play's plot is as skimpy as Brittany Spears' thong and the heroine is so tedious and annoying I want to drown her in a bathtub. <br />Meet Bride McTierney, the plus sized heroine that everybody's wetting their panties about. I sure wish I hadn't. If Bride is supposed to empower women who have meat on their bones, we live in sad, cruel world indeed. Bride is a insulting joke. I know many people have body image issues. Heck, I wish my thighs were slimmer and I could shave off ten pounds really quick, but I don't spend all day thinking about it. Bride is a character that is solely defined by her body image issues and her own insecurities. It almost seemed like for every page of action, there were two pages of Bride whining about what an unloveable lard-butt she is. Maybe I would be more sympathetic if Bride started dancing with Richard Simmons instead of doing her tedious pity party thing all the time. Even worse is Kenyon making Bride come across as a complete loser, from Bride's involvment with her jerk wad ex-boyfriend who she stayed with because there was no one else to her being stood up at the prom for being a 'fatty' to her OWN sister ridiculing her while Bride takes it like a doormat. The only thing I can figure is that Kenyon made Bride the world's toilet bowl so getting the studdly hero would make her victory over all the naysayers who treated her badly would be sweeter. Of course, the perfect chippendale hero that serendipity provides for her, Vane thinks her cellulite is the sexiest thing ever and through his sexual healing, Bride gains her self-esteem. I just think there is something really condensending to all that. <br />There is a really skimpy subplot about Vane's wolf-pack wanting to kill him and an indepth delving into of Vane's non-stop tragedy of a past. The crux of the book is Bride wringing her hands and worrying in between bouts of lovemaking if Vane can love her and her blubber. I start wondering if it's really her personality and not her weight that's the cause of her problem with men, so don't look a gift horse in the mouth, sweets. There is also some ridiculous subplot about Vane worrying about how she will react to him being a werewolf. I mean, Bride hangs around with the Deverauxs, knows Kyrian and Acheron, and her dad even knows about the were-Hunters. How can she not have a clue about the supernatural stuff!? If the Dark-Hunters want to keep their war with the Daimons secret that need to do a much better job of hiding themselves cause it seems like all of New Orleans knows about them. <br />Even the vibrant side-characters couldn't save this book. Normally I'd be thrilled to Acheron, Simi, and the rest but this time they only enforce what a tedious character Bride is. <br />	2004-08-16
US	50744505	R2UUFL23VX5XHK	0515133876	449119181	Narcissus in Chains (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 10)	Books	1	46	50	N	N	Hamilton's Worst Yet. Anita Blake Series Drills Into Hades.	Narcissus in Chains is a book that I have a strange history with. It's one that I have been valiantly trying to read since my Junior year of high school. I'd managed to read the first half from the library, I'd skimmed certain later scenes in the book, and as of recently I listened to it on audio cassette. It's taken me three years, but I've finally suffered through NiC! I think we all deserve T-shirts that proclaim our bravery.  <br />I love the first six Anita Blake books. They were stay-up-til 3 AM on a school night kind of reads. The series started to shift away from what made it initial enjoyable in book 7, but in Blue Moon that series crashed and burned for me. Obsidian Butterfly was rock-bottom for me as I realized that Anita wasn't all that different from the jerk bigoted cop that had it in for her. NiC is even worse, surpassing rock bottom and trying to drill itself straight to Hades.  <br />The only good thing about NiC is it looks like Richard is gone for good this time. I also thought his relationship with Anita was illogical. Richard only seemed to want her for being human, but he wanted her to be a normal normal Pollyanna. It's been clear since the first that he's barking up the wrong tree if he wants that from Anita. Anita on her part doesn't like him being a werewolf, and with her abandonment issues I've always wondered why she would waste her time pining over a man who wanted her to be something she wasn't. It was doomed from the start. Goodbye and good ridance Richard. I'm sick of your mind games and your pitiful whining. I don't like Jean Claude either anymore, and I sure as heck don't like Anita's new lover, Micah. <br />With this story, Anita Blake shifts itself even further on the wrong path as Anita gains the power of the Arduer and becomes this super-Nymphomaniac Witch. Seriously, the LHK is almost writing like she's trying to parody herself. Anita isn't back for five minutes before the hateful wereleopards that I wish would die are in trouble again. Anita goes to a bondage club to rescue them. She's wounded during the fight and wakes up to find herself in bed with a bunch of new characters to this cast that has long since reached maximum occupancy. Micah is a Nimir-Raj wereleopard. He spends like 80 pages giving Anita sexual healing and they have sex in the shower. You heard me, Anita Blake has sex in the shower with a dude she doesn't know from Adam. It's the arduer's fault of course, Anita Blake makes no mistakes. The arduer seems to posess her alot, forcing her to do kinky sexual stuff. I guess bludgeoning a character into acting completely against her nature passes for character evolution (or devolution) in Hamilton's mind. This forced erotica isn't even very good. Hamilton loved to reuse the beast, and itching along the skin descriptions over and over. Frankly, the proses become so florid when Anita goes into the sexual magic that the book begins to read like a penthouse letter! And Anita spends more time thinkings about how great it would be to drink her lovers' blood, eat their flesh, and grind their bones to make her bread than she does about how hot and bothered they make her. Only fans of Furry Vore porn will enjoy her myriad sexual encounters. <br />I think the arduer is only the latest blunder of Hamilton's biggest storytelling weakness: Character consistancy. Have you noticed how characters' whole personality can shift between books. Anita can't decide if she's completely depraved or not. Jean Claude has gone from being so into Anita to pimping her out to Richard for more powers and in NiC he's become this clucking mother hen. Richard went from mild-mannered werewolf to a psycho whiner and then to this macho man with 100% pure testorone in his viens. <br />I really really hate Anita. She's always right and no one can get along without her. Characters are pigeon-holed into two categories: Anita's booter-lickers or Anita's enemies. I mean even the supposedly dominant were-beasties have to bend over when Anita commands and they all want to have sex with her. Anyone who goes against the will of mighty Blake is bad and deserves death or some other sad fate because THOU SHALT HAVE NO GODS BEFORE ANITA!! She expects JC and Richard to not be mad at her for stringing them along and running out on them for six months. I'm tired of this selfish, emotionally immature woman thinking that the world revolves around her.  <br />Late in the book some plot about missing were-alphas appears that ends with Anita gaining a gillion-bazillion new powers. Micah takes Richard's place in the end. The best part is that Anita doesn't love Micah for his sparkling personality. No, he's her soulmate because he's so desperate to get at the VD filled cavern between her thighs that he's become her ultimate yes-man, a personality-less doormat trying to lie flat enough to suit her needs. Doesn't such a beautiful relationship warm the cockles of your heart?	2004-08-16
US	50744505	R2EJHAUHR8EWN	0765342987	615549012	Kushiel's Dart	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Enthralling Yet Overwhelming	Kushiel's Dart is very different from anything I've ever read before. It's a book that is at once enthralling yet overwhelming to the point that I think that I only understand the over-all big picture of the plot but the details have completely lost me. This is the story of Phedre no Delaunay, the first anguisette to be born in the blessed land of Terre D'Ange in nearly three generations. This is an epic story about a woman who started life as a \\"[prostitute's] unwanted get\\" and became something more than she ever imagined.<br /> Carey has crafted a world that is so detailed that you could almost reach out and touch it. It found the descriptions of the lavish excesses of Night Court and the D'Angeline nobility absolutely riveting and the religion of Blessed Elua facinating. The politics add a lot of depth to the world, but it is so complex that it is also very hard to follow. From the beginning to the end, there are a ton of details to keep up with, about the internal working of Terre D'Ange and the surrounding countries.<br /> See, Phedre is a Servant of Naamah, who pimped herself out to save Blessed Elua's bacon, making prostitution a holy act. But she's also been pricked by Kushiel's Dart, the scarlet mark in her eye. Kushiel is Elua's angelic companion who inflicts pain on sinners. As such, Phedre finds pleasure in pain. Phedre is made the bond-servant of Lord Anafiel Delaunay because her particular skills may help him in his political intrigues by gathering information from his rivals and enemies. However, Phedre learns to much and becomes enbroiled in a fight to save her Queen's throne from a cunning traitor, her country from a barbarian army, and her own life.<br /> Much has been made about the sex because of the BDSM and homosexual elements, but that this is an overrated aspect of the book. Phedre describes her early assignations in detail, but it's too clinical to qualify as erotica, which is fine since my limited experience with such is to find them hilariously stupid. It seemed like Carey was going for shock-value first and formost becuase as the book gets past page three hundred, Phedre starts to slam the bedroom door in the reader's face. Even the tender, emotional sex scenes and their aftermath are only mentioned in passing.<br /> One thing I found very jarring was the Master of the Straights subplot. Up until that part of the book, the world of Terre D'Ange had no fantastical elements or magical beings and such. Then all of a sudden this aquatic super-being just shows up. Very out of place considering that everything that happens before and after is realistic.<br /> Overall, I really liked Kushiel's Dart and plan to read the others in the series.d. It seemed like Carey was going for shock-value first and formost becuase as the book gets past page three hundred, Phedre starts to slam the bedroom door in the reader's face. Even the tender, emotional sex scenes and their aftermath are only mentioned in passing.    One thing I found very jarring was the Master of the Straights subplot. Up until that part of the book, the world of Terre D'Ange had no fantastical elements or magical beings and such. Then all of a sudden this aquatic super-being just shows up. Very out of place considering that everything that happens before and after is realistic.   Overall, I really liked Kushiel's Dart and plan to read the others in the series.	2004-08-04
US	50744505	R2B5UB8SQ97040	0451451430	249749712	Nightseer	Books	2	14	17	N	N	Hamilton's Unspectacular Debut Novel	Laurell K Hamilton is author who I would have said two years ago could do no wrong. I absolutely loved the first six books of the Anita Blake series, but after that her books started to stink. I found this book at the library (no way I'm paying 8 dollars for the reprint that is something like 250 pages long) and was hoping that Nightseer would be a return to the Hamilton I used to love. Unfortunately, while it has Hamilton's  spectacular action and creative ideas in spades, it is also unfocused and under-developed. <br />Keleios is a phrophet and a sorceress studying at a magic academy that trains nobles and peasants alike. Keleios is tainted by a demon's mark and a thrist for vengence against the witch, Harque, that killed her mother. One night she has a vision that the school will be attacked and destroyed and her rival Fedelis (and somehow Harque) is behind it all. She also has to worry about Lothor, the Black Healer, who wants her to be his wife, whom she really dispises. The school's attacked and there is a hundred page long action scene and Lothor, Keleios, and some pals wind up conveniently on Harque's island and then there is some more fights. <br />That's Nightseer's main problem. Developement is pushed aside to have long fight scenes and it plays out like an RPG. Many times did I think about the similarities between Nightseer and the Final Fantasy games. It's like- Oh, look a fire demon. Better equip a knife with ice atributes. Oh No! Our white mage is out of magic points, better summon Shiva, the ice elemental. Yea! The boss monster is dead. On to the the next dungeon, but be careful. The monsters here are so powerful that the guide book doesn't even say how many life points they have! <br />Plus while Keleios brave and strong, she has Anita Blake's annoying tendency to judge the people who love her harshly even when she is even less of a saintly humanitarian than they are.  <br />  <br />	2004-08-04
US	50744505	R1E7FN5SU9F443	050552533X	179168676	Traveler (Wildside Romance)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Excellent Dark Fantasy. A Thrilling Page Turner.	This is a book I just want to gush about. Simply put, it's probably one of most enjoyable books that I've read in a while. The paranormal romance genre is cluttered mainly by vampires, werewolves, ghosts, and timetravelers. Melanie Jackson's imagination introduces readers to a world very much like our own- but where the Fey Folk and goblins walk among humans. It's very evocative of Laurell K. Hamilton's work, but without the extreme gore factor and the ridiculous bed-hopping nonsense of her later works. <br />Io is one of the Fey. After her mother was killed by Goblins, she hooked up with HUG or Humans Underground, a vigilante group that is violently pro-human and anti-everything supernatural. Io is sent on a mission to find out what the goblins of Goblin Town are plotting and to keep an eye on Jack Frost, a death fey who works for an unknown third-party. However, Jack suspects that HUG itself may be compromised by the Goblins, who have now replaced the world's most prominent humans with their own kind. Jack and Io must team up to take out the goblin trash. <br />I absolutely loved this story. It's an action packed roller coaster through a dark urban environment, my favorite kind. I found Goblin Town, with its perpetual Halloweenish landscape, to be an absolutely facinating setting. <br />If there is anything wrong with the story, it's that the characters really aren't that meticulously developed, but they serve their purpose as sexy, magical action heroes.	2004-08-03
US	50744505	RWNJ1EP8NKPEE	0812528026	169662126	The Palace	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Quite an Experience!	This the first book that I have read in the Saint Germaine series. As I understand they don't have to be read in any particular order as each book doesn't take place in chronological order.<br />  In The Palace, Francesco Ragoczy da San Germano, alchemist and humanitarian, builds a grand palace in Renaissance Florence or as it is refereded to here, Fiorenza. He befriends many people in the city, including the painter Botticelli and Laurenzo Medici himself. But all is not well in this wealthy, enlightened city. A mad preacher named Savonarola is slowly gaining popularity because of his fierce piety and fire and brimstone condemnation of the arts and learning. His ability to terrify the populace and the help of a demented visionary woman named Estasia, who also happened to be Ragoczy's former nymphomaniac lover, allow this man seize power after Laurenzo's death. He starts a reign of terror in the city that threatens to swallow all Ragoczy holds dear- first and formost, Demetrice, his young apprentice, who has been accused of heresy.<br />  Overall I was very impressed with this novel. It's story can be slow at times and sometimes pivotal happenings are desribed in correspondances between characters but the climatic ending is really zippy. The atmosphere was very well done, especially when Yarbro describes how oppressive Fiorenza had become when Savonarola had taken over with his horrific brand of religious fervor. There are a couple of scenes were he or Sister Estasia would really get crazy and the hair on the back of my neck would raise up.<br />  I think the blarbs and such on the book's back over are really misleading. They make it sound as if this is vampire romance novel but it isn't. Although San Germano seemed to fall for Demetrice, that's just a subplot that happens in the last third of the book. In fact Demetrice is introduced in the second chapter but doesn't reappear until the half-way point. San Germano doesn't really act like a vampire as they are often imagined in most kinds of fiction- he isn't evil or a broody goth-type. We never even get to see him drink blood. His vampirism doesn't even effect the story at all until he must find a way to save Demetrice.<br />  San Germano isn't even really the most vibrant or forceful character in this novel. Until the last third, he is reactive rather than proactive, basing his actions on what happens to him because of more forceful characters rather than making things happen on his own. His is very much a wall-flower until then. In the earlier portions of the book, I got a much better sense of the characters of Laurenzo Medici and Estasia and other various supporting characters. San Germano reveals very little about his past in this book so that kind of keeps him from being overly interesting too.<br />  Still, it's hard not to be enthralled by the rich or desperate atmosphere that Yarbro creates as she weaves a story about fervent mad little preacher and the lives he destorys with his fanatacism. I'm very glad that I had the next book in the series. Hopefully, more details will be revealed about this elusive vampire named Saint Germaine.	2004-07-27
US	50744505	R2QVAX9H6FUFF	006057528X	457745649	The Magicians' Guild (The Black Magician Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	2	77	103	N	N	This Fantasy Novel Lacks Real Magic	I'm not an avid fantasy reader but everything about Trudi Canavan's first book, the Magician's Guild, feels cliched. First of all there is a Magician's Guild and a Thief's Guild, and I have played enough RPGs to know those are fantasy staples. Mix that lightly with a vaguely mideval European flavored world. Dash in some characters that haven't fully ripened. The end result is a plot that feels half-baked.  <br />In this kingdom every year the king has the magician's guild chase the poor and downtrodden out of the city. Needless to say, the poor don't care much of this turn of events but they are no match against the forces of the magicians' magic barrier. That is until a slum girl named Sonea uses the latent magical talent within her to penetrate the barrier. Suddenly this unassuming girl is running for her life, thinking that the magicians will try to kill her because they don't want anyone outside the good-old-boy network to have magic. The Guild Magician's must track Sonea down before her uncontrolled power destroys the city. <br />The plot itself is okay, but it's like Canavan was trying to stretch a the story to twice the length it needed to be. The characters never really seemed to come alive either. The first half of the story is pretty dull because very little of interest happens to Sonea as she hides out and the guild rushes around trying to find her. <br />The second part fares a little better when Sonea begins to learn the ways of magic, but it remains a very flat and dull book. The story ends just as it seems ready to roll. I'm a little suprised that what was a little throw-away detail is what will become the plot that will carry the rest of the triology. Maybe the next book will be better because it may have a larger focus, but I'm not eager to find out.	2004-07-26
US	50744505	R1ELGGM9JVLE2X	0743467426	163102400	I Burn for You (Primes Series, Book 1)	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Caveman Vampires Make For Fun if Silly Fluff Reading!	Has anyone read Sizemore's Laws of Blood series? I've read one of the later books in the series and while it wasn't a keeper, it gave me the impression that it was a suitably dark and intriguing world. I'm really really shocked that the person who wrote a vampire novel more along the lines of Laurell K Hamilton would turn around and write one along the lines of Christine Feehan, an author who writes over-the-top barbie and barbarian camp material with dead seriousness. Considering that most of the vampire romances coming out now are underbaked, mostly plotless sex-fests I should be happy that Sizemore wrote a slightly better-than-average one with a plot, albiet a very thin one, than stays in focus for the majority of the story. It was an easy read too, with the type being rather large making the 300 hundred and forty odd pages probably actually closer to 200 hundred. The characters and relationships weren't very complex, conforming closely to the character-types and soul-mate bond thingamajig set out by authors like Feehan. About the the only element that Sizemore does that tries to break out of the mold Feehan has put on the vampire canon is create a multi-branched vampire society. More on that later. <br /> Really, this is a good fluff read that kept me entertained even as I rolled my eyes and chuckled in places. Alec Reynard is a vampire who has used modern medicine to be able to go out into the sun. More specifically, he is a Prime of the Fox Clan. A Prime being an aggressive young vampire male and the Fox Clan being one brand of a core group of 'good vampires' that protect humans. There are also the Families, a nuetral group that can be good or bad, and the Tribes, the wild bad vampires. Like every young Prime, Alec has taken this medicine so he can go out into the sun and join the army... or become a policeman or a fireman or something macho and human-friendly like that because EVERY group is a collection of people who share the exact same thoughts and idealswith no variation. I guess it's just easier to make a nubulous group than actually have a generation gap or counter-culture in the ranks or something that can't be summed up in one sentence. Anway, Alec is an ex-army Prime, meaning that all he wants to do is meet his bondmate and flavish her with his bestial obsessive affections and with his intense sexual need. But watch out because Optimus Prime here is also uber-possesive and turns half animal if everything gets in his way or someone looks at his woman wrong. I found it very amusing when his thoughts would sometime degenerate into this mono-syllabic caveman speak that goes something like this. &quot;Want! My Woman! Need! Must Have! Blood! Sex! YES! MINE!&quot; <br /> Anyway, he had this erotic dream bond with Domini Lancer, a female bodyguard whose also psychic. She can sometimes see into the future but only when the plot calls for it, so her powers are rather unrealiable and not useful. Domini and Alec are thrown together to guard this famous singer from some fanatics that also hate the vampires. <br /> I'm somewhat baffled as to how someone like Optimus Prime, who can turn Cro-Magnon at the turn of hat, could survive in an army unit when a clear head and keen intellect are needed to survive at times. I'm was also amused at the way Sizemore tries to sugar-coat the way female vampires are little more than broodmares. I suppose that making family units ultimately matriarchial is supposed make this easier to swallow. In one unintentionally funny scene, Optimus Prime pretty much admits that Domini is a walking uterus and Domini balks. Optimus Prime goes caveman again screaming about how she going to pop out a lot of sons for him and they are all going to be his brats! <br /> I Burn For You is the a book you should run, not walk, to get if you like the idea of uber-macho vampires and cavepig see-you-want-you antics with a psychic chick. For everyone else, pick it up at the library.  <br />	2004-07-23
US	50744505	R1FGXW6WMS5RSY	0505525305	767657127	A Girl's Guide to Vampires	Books	2	12	17	N	N	Roxy Gave Me a Headache!	Two of the things I really harp on in my reviews are spineless and stupid heroines and abusive and cruel heroes. I am happy to inform every one that for the majority of the novel I did not want to strangle the main character. Instead, my wrath is reserved for Roxy and all the other PMSing female characters. I'll get to that later. <br />Meet Joy Randall. She and her best pal Roxy are taking a trip to the Czech republic. Roxy ropes Joy into attending a GothFaire so the little moron can meet a vampire. Roxy is obsessed with these Christine Feehan-ish romance novels writtern by CJ Dante, and before long she is certain that a *SQUEAL* Dark One wants to make Joy his bondmate. Who could it be? Is it Rapheal, the hunky security guard that makes Joy's heart flutter, or the alluring Christian, or even that slimy pousser Dominic? Then someone starts draining the fluid out of the faire's fortune-tellers and Raphael is blamed? Can Joy clear her sweetie's name and live happily ever after. <br />This book is written in first person which is something I normally don't care for, but that is a minor irritation compared to my hatred for Roxy. Normally I would call a character like this a dimbulb or a dimwit or a dingbat. Roxy surpasses all those descriptions and reaches the level of stupidity where I would call her something that rhymes with mum luck. This woman resembles a screamy anime character 98% of the time. She's a virgin whose saving it for one of those morovian Dark Ones that exsist in romance novels. If that's not delusional, I don't know what is. It's like this woman's brain has melted into a pool of stupid ooze. She has absolutely no tact, saying and doing stupid things all the time. She always seems to be with Joy, so Roxy is there almost all the time and her presence is almost unbearable from the first chapter. Apparently, Roxy's idiocy is contagious because in the last quarter of the book Joy, whose seemed calm and level-headed in comparison, started acting as shrill and insufferably childish as Roxy does. I started skimming pages them because I just couldn't take the stupid pagent anymore. <br />The thing I liked best about a Girl's Guide to Vampires is that it totally lambasts the concept of lifemate/ it was fated love. I think this concept is just a shortcut for lazy authors to take to cover their lack of skill, and it's quickly becoming more prevelent in the subgenre. Kudos to the author for poking fun at this ridiculous concept.   <br />	2004-07-21
US	50744505	R8ULB7BGHFZAM	055356451X	636592968	Night Sins (Deer Lake)	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Not Finishing Your Book isn't innocence but SIN!	This isn't Tami Hoag's greatest novel by a long-shot. I didn't hate it like I did Dust to Dust but I didn't love it like I do Ashes to Ashes or Cry Wolf. One thing I've noticed about Hoag's work is that the mystery AND the romance often take backseat to every characters' sad memories, traumatic life expirences, and sordid pasts. No book quite highlights Hoag's tendency to weave angst and depression into a massive tapestry of despair quite like Night Sins. <BR>In Night Sins, a young boy is abducted after hockey practice. His mother was busy preforming emergency surgery, and his father was busy screwing the neighbor's wife. These two characters spend a lot of time being guilty and angsty. Heading the search for Josh are Megan O'Malley, a female field agent from the BCA with a chip on her shoulders and daddy-issues, and Mitch Holt, a police chief whose very depressed about the death of his wife and son. These two characters also spend a lot of time being guilty and angsty. Who could have done such a thing in the perfect, perfect town of Deer Lake?<BR>I'll get to the book's biggest flaw first. It's ending is very, very poor. Nothing is really resolved. Sure, the kidnapper is caught but we are given no indepth insight into why he did it, but the ending does make it clear that there is one or more accomplices still on the lose. After spending many hours reading over 500 pages I feel cheated. I think that Hoag probably could have shortened this novel by about 200 pages if she took out some of the angst. Then maybe I wouldn't feel so cheated. I also would recommend the abridged audio book version of Night Sins because it prunes out a lot of the endless angst.<BR>Like I said before, the angst eclipses the investigation into Josh's abduction. There were times when I seriously questioned Mitch's ability to be police chief early in the novel. He was very very insistant that this COULD NOT be a case of kidnapping because crime doesn't exsist in perfect, perfect Deer Lake. He wasalso very hesistant to question any of the locals even though they did some things that made them look highly suspicious. I mean Megan was the only one who really seemed serious about the case half the time. It seemed like every time she tried to prusue a possible lead, Mitch would try to stonewall her. I felt really sorry for Megan. It seemed like everybody was trying to undermine her all the time. From Mitch, to the sherriff that was feeding critical info to the press, to a nosy reporter out to make things difficult, Megan couldn't make any sort of move with out being criticized dispite the fact that she was the only one trying to crack the case. <BR>On reflection, very little happens during the investigation. Just about every gain the police make is because the kidnappers want them to have this piece of evidence or that piece of evidence.<BR>Despite my criticism, I still enjoyed Night Sins. Not the best book ever, but this two parter isn't the worst capitalistic grab by an author I've ever seen. That honor goes to Laurell K. Hamilton for trying to pass off an teaser from her crummy Anita Blake: Vampire Hunter Novels as a short story not once but twice.	2004-07-19
US	50744505	R23RC4MQ28VNHQ	0312987013	931084222	Minion (Vampire Huntress Legends)	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Promising Beginning or Prelude to Disaster?	The version of Minion that I am reviewing is the paperback special edition which boastes to be a slightly rewritten from the tradesized version. Minion is the uneven first book in series that tells the story of the Millenium Neteru Damali Richards, whose destined to be an uber Vampire Huntress. The Vampire Huntress Legend is a series in every sense of the word, because this book is not a complete story arc but a set-up for the rest of the series.<BR>I don't think I've ever changed my feelings about a book as much as I have this one. After reading the prologue and first few chapters, I thought the book sucked but I was going to read it anyways since it was less than 300 pages long. The book would plod along and every know and again I would come across a scene that was just mesmerizing. Then it would plod along again. The only reason I'm giving the book 3 stars is because the last 40 or so pages were when the story finally seemed ready to take off.<BR>The major problem with Minion is that it trying so hard to set the scene for the rest of the story that it forgets to give us readers a real pay-off. As the story ends, most of the characters in Damali's band/slayer group are still sketchily developed, Damali herself is only *just* coming into her awsome powers, and the forces of darkness are just getting ready to act on their plans. Aside from the first chapter and a scene were Damali's Neteru powers compell her to chase after a vampire there is very little action on that front. Most of the time the hunters are holed up in their hide-out waiting for Damali to awaken to her powers. Lots of talking about the mystical mechanics that this world runs on too. Banks definitely could have introduced those elements in a better way than endless chunks of dialogue.<BR>Another thing I wondered about was how wise is it to give these vampire hunters such a visable day job? When the forces of evil want to kill off man-kinds last and best hope, I don't think I'd want our last hope up on a stage for all the world to see.<BR>I don't really think that Damali has a very strong personality or is that compelling a character to carry a whole series. The evil characters like Fallon Nuit and Carlos are much more interesting. Given that Carlos, Damali's ex-boyfriend turned vampire, is slated to play a big part in the series, this could easily turn into a series where the love-interest steals the thunder of the supposedly powerful and strong heroine.<BR>Perhaps, the most troubling plot-turn is the revealation about how the various factions of evil want to impregnate out virginal yet lustful vampire slayer. This plot turn would be quite hokey and silly if Banks hadn't vividly laid out how the stakes were. What has me uneasy is that I'v seen good series go to the dogs when the plot demands that people have sex. Case in point is Laurell K. Hamilton's Anita Blake series which Minion will inevitably be compared to. Hamilton put in a plot device that demanded the heroine of that series do all kinds of kinky activities effectively reducing Anita Blake into an avatar for the author to vicariously play out her blood and guts S&M fantasies. Hamilton's work has gotten so ludicrous and distasteful that it would be more merciful for everyone if she just sent her publisher a headless decomposing cat instead of her manuscript. What path Banks will take with this plot element will determine for me if this series tanks or succeeds.	2004-07-19
US	50744505	ROLGE23W8A7BY	0312987625	744880350	Midnight Pleasures	Books	3	19	21	N	N	Thompson's Story Keeps It From Being a Time-Waster	An anthology with two of my favorite authors- Maggie Shayne and Sherrilyn Kenyon! How did things go so wrong? <BR>The anthology kicks off to a less than grand start with Amanda Ashley's Darkfest. I know not to expect much from this author, but I have to wonder why she is writing for an adult market. Her writing style and premises are so girly that it's a wonder the pages aren't written in pink ink with glitter and sugar coming out the pages. The tall dark and dangerous daddy figures who fixate on unextraordinary lolita girls because they are so pure and good quite being a romantic fantasy for me when I was 12. What's worse is that Ashley seems totally unaware of the nasty pedophile overtones that permeate 90% of her books. Darkfest just adds to that with some nasty beastiality undertones. <BR>Okay, Darkfest is a sorcerer dude who lives up on a mountain. He can turn into a wolf. He befriends Channa-Leigh, a blind girl from the village, as a wolf. Channa Leigh is Pure, Pure, Pure. Can't remember if she's blonde. But she's gonna get married! So Darkfest makes her come live in his creepy castle because he loves her so. Channa can see when she touches his wolf form. Darkfest wants Channa to rub his tummy.<BR> Darkfest is basically a lonely, losery geek who lives in his dad's basement and obsesses over the most popular babe in school. He was a male virigin until he lost his virginity to a female wolf. Color me grossed out. It's a shame that while Ashley's writing style continues to evolve and become smoother, her ploting and characterization is still stuck in the 3rd grade.<BR>Next comes Sherrilyn Kenyon's first story about the Dream Hunters, a spin-off of the popular Dark Hunter series. What happened? I'll tell you what. Kenyon has created a complex mythology for the dream hunters, but she does little with it. Instead she tries to cram in all the sex she would put in a full length novel and chops out everything else out of the plot but the bare basics. Okay, so make thestory an full-out sexual romp, but don't try to give Erin, the female lead, issues about how fat she is next to the hot-studdly V'aiden.<BR>Next comes Maggie Shayne's comtemporary witch-yarn. The problem with this story is that Maggie is using it as a soap box for an axe she has to grind about the stereotyping of Wiccans. Anthology pieces tend to be too short as it is, so focus on plot and characters. Bring the heavy hitting issues up in full length novels. Anyway, the hero is producer of some cheesy TV show about magic wielding witches that will probably appear on the Sci-fi channel. The heroine is a white witch that wants the show to provide an accurate picture of Wiccans. Hero is flippant and dismissive, Heroine tries to set him straight, Hero stupidly fools around with dark powers, Hero and Heroine have sex, Heroine saves Hero from evil forces, Hero sees the true path. <BR>Oh, Rhonda Thompson I could kiss you. I almost thought about skipping this one because Kenyon and Shayne bombed so badly. This a historical werewolf tale that is sort of like Susan Krinard's best work. It's a marvelous tale that is forcing me to keep this wreck of an anthology instead of tossing it out. It starts out a bit shakily with Elise hiddening in the circus to escape nasty relative and wandering into the bed of Sterling, the Beast Tamer. It just improves so much as it goes along. My emotions were in engaged. I understood were Sterling and Elise were coming from, and Thompson even found time to flesh out the secondary characters. It's a shame that this story didn't come by itself. Next to Thompson's story, the other three uninspired novellas look like garbage.	2004-07-11
US	50744505	R2JEBUAATMXMCH	1591823862	593762988	Saber Marionette J #1	Books	1	1	5	N	N	Who needs good plot and characters when you have boobs?	Yuck. I got this because I enjoyed the anime series of the same name. I must say that the anime is the superior version. <BR>This story takes place on a planet were there are only men. Women have gone exstinct and have been replaced by female-looking androids. One day, a boy stumbles across one of these androids (called a Marionette) in a hidden room in a museum. When activated, this marionette, Lime, has a program that allows her to act like a human girl. The boy also finds some other Marionettes that act human. And there is an evil guy who also has three of these special marionettes who are evil like him.<BR>That's a really simpified version of the plot, but I'm not going into any greater detail. The main focus of this story is (...). All the marionettes have these gigantic (...) that would cause a normal woman who bend over because there wieght. In you're going to shove my face in the marionette's cleavage, at least make the (...) pleasing to look at not like saggy, floppy waterballoons like some plastic surgery gone awry.<BR>Drawing style is clean and precise but nothing to get excited about.<BR>Not recommended.	2004-06-18
US	50744505	R3S147KP7R0ZLS	1931514623	10705609	Planet Ladder (Volume 1)	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Admire the Cover Art but Leave Planet Ladder on the Shelf	Planet Ladder has such lovely cover art, but unfortunately the art and story inside is rather bland and generic. The main character, Kaguya, looks very pretty on the cover but in the actual story she insists on wearing these hideous pigtails. Dispite what someone else said, Kaguya is a manga stereotype and one of my least favorites at that- the passive girl with no self esteem whose always apoligizing for being worthless. Kaguya was found abandoned as a child and she has a knack for reading tarot cards, but when she tries to saw her own future she always gets a blank card.<BR>One day some strange foriegn men come to her house and start fighting over her. During the struggle, Kaguya is transported to another world (her home planet most likely) and ends up having to fend for herself with the help of a robot who looks like a boy she's been seeing in her nightmares for years. This is the same old plot were Jill Normal is transported to a fantasy world only to find out she's the most important person there and two or more factions want her loyalties.<BR>An unoriginal plotline is okay with me if the execution is well-handled, but Planet Ladder has one of the most confusing back-stories I've ever muddled through. Looks like there was a war or something and some prince guy went insane, but I'm not really sure. There are some notes in the back of the book but they actually made me more confused!  <BR>Planet Ladder looks like it still could be a good story as it has some kernels of good ideas, it just really needs to pull itself together. However, this volume was so scatterbrained that I'm not inclined to pick up the next installment in the series.	2004-06-18
US	50744505	R28Y1ZIBG3X4XT	0505525577	940380821	Master of Ecstasy (Mackenzie Vampires, Book 1)	Books	1	22	28	N	N	A Review from the Other Side of the Coin	I've been a fan of vampire and paranormal romances for a long time. I remember when everyone though the genre was dying out. I found some real gems among little know authors whose books went out of print or were published by obscure indie presses. In the last year or two, paranormals and vampire romances have undergone a revolution and revival. While we're getting an infusion of much appreciated new talent, there is also an increase of lazy authors who just want to crank out a hot, gimmicky new book. Perhaps the worst of these offenders are the poineers of the 'vampire comedy' which believe that the darkness and savagery should be dropped for sex and silly antics. <BR>Bangs has scacrificed plot and characters for humor, but if unless your taste in comedy leans towards 'stupid, frigid woman has sex' good luck enjoying this one. You might say this is a light, fluffy read but its just dumb. The characters are all one dimensional caricatures with the vampire hero, Darach, being the worst. He's the kind of character that is defined by his genitals rather than his personality. A lusty fellow, he's all about SEX SEX SEX SEX SEX! He's got some sob story about his wife, but other than that he's to busy trying to be every romance hero cliche in the book. He's a vampire, a Scotts laird, and A VIKING! I half expected him to light up cheroot and talk about being a cowboy in the American West. Blythe is some time traveling person whose job is to make people happy. She herself is frigid and unhappy and something of a doormat. Love and sex has done her wrong so she will never love and copulate again, no matter what! Seeing as the crux of the book is all about Darach and other stupid people getting Blythe to have sex, it's one of those books that all talk, little action. It's a bit like seducing Ceasar, the muscular love god, only to find out that Ceasar is impotent from steriod abuse.  <BR>Pile on the dumb little antics (Darach's bed falls through the ceiling so Darach must sleep naked in Blythe's room! Har Har!) and you've got one painfully braindead comedy.	2004-06-15
US	50744505	R2L3XSM9OFKDNT	0553584189	551558047	Night Fires	Books	2	10	11	N	N	More Like a Flicker Than a Blaze	I completely agree with the reviewer that said there is absolutely no reason to make Simone a vampire. The only purpose it serves is to turn this character into an unpleasant, humorless walking pity party. Night Fires would have worked better as a straigh forward historical for all the impact the vampire gimmick made on the story. <BR>As others have said, this takes place during the choas and terror of the French Revolution. Simone returns to her family estate to find the family that turned their backs on her murdered. She slays the killers, and then runs off to church to beg forgiveness. The priest instructs her to dedicate her life to help other flee from the agents of the revolution. Hence, Simone becomes La Flamme, a Scarlet Pimpernel minus the brains clone, dedicated to rescuing imprisoned aristocrats. At the same time, the English government sends over a spy named ..er... I'm drawing a blank... let me check... (I just finished the book an hour ago) yes... Micheal Corday to seek out and assasinate the one financing a revolutionary movement in England.<BR>As a historical spy romance, the book is also a dud. Simone is again the problem. For someone who risks danger at every turn, she sure is stupid and ineffective as a spy. I can't see why a seasoned expert like Corday is so adament that he must enlist the help of La Flamme when he isn't sure can trust a third party and Simone is more of a help than a hinderance. In fact, if Corday just went to Paris without her, the book would have been finished in a third of the time and we'd all be spared Simone's endless self-flagellation. She's cursed, she's evil, she's wicked, she must suffer, she must wear a hairsuit, and she must give us every detail of her pain and agony because we must suffer along with her. <BR>But honestly, in particularly silly scene Simone is vowing to herself not to sleep with Corday and reveal her true name and other information. Not three pages later, Simone has succomed to his charms and answersevery one of his questions, spilling all her secrets as they do it! A few pages later, the government spy keeping an eye on them mentions how inept women are at keeping secrets. I laughed. I sure hope the author meant for the irony to be there. There is also a another part were Corday wants Simone to pretend to be his wife, but she can't because lying is bad and marriage is scacred or some other nonsense. She nearly gives them both away in front of hostile French agents! Simone, even though her life's misson is to decieve and ellude the revolution's agents, isn't even flexiable enough to act outside the Moral Code of Virtuous Romance Historical Womyn That Make Them Pure and Likeable to Ye Puritanical Readers to save her own life!<BR>In the end, they finally make it to Paris and do what they need to and everything is hunky dory even though the plot elements just come together out of Serendipity rather than actual spy work. Corday and Simone live happily ever after. The End.<BR>This book is readable but not much else. A more complex story, lack of vampire gimmick, tigher pacing, and characters not determined to wallow in misery would have improved this spy novel. It's head over heels better than all those idiotic vampire comedies that have been flooding the market in the last few months, but that's a back-handed compliment.	2004-06-15
US	50744505	RISJHQKNEWGQS	042519485X	806820342	Undead and Unwed (Queen Betsy, Book 1)	Books	2	18	24	N	N	Wit can't make up for skimpy plot and filmsy characters	This book came highly recommended to me and I couldn't wait to read it. At first I thought it would be a keeper. It was very funny for the first fifty-sixty or so pages. It was cheeky and irreverant look at the vampire genre told through the eyes of shallow secretary turned vampire Betsy Taylor. Unfortunately, irrations just keep piling on and piling on until I was just happy to reach the end of the books 260 pages. For one thing, the vampire genre cliches just keep coming. I mean it's one thing to poke playful fun at these conventions just Davidson's wit just seems to run out of steam quickly and I'm left with a bunch of scenes I've read before in much better novels. After the the first segment of the story, \\"Betsy's Random Adventures as a Vampire\\", when we get to the real meat of the story, Betsy forgets to be funny and just becomes shrill. <BR>Betsy is one of those characters that you can only take in small doses. By the end of the book, she was absolutely grating. Some character development would have been nice, but to this book's determent, Betsy is still a silly, shallow woman, even though her circumstances SHOULD compell her to wise-up and get serious.  <BR>As a romance reader, I find the relationship between Betsy and Sinclair so underbaked that it's still muffin batter. Seeing as the events of the book are seen through Betsy's eyes, I have no idea what Sinclair sees in her except as an easy way to grab power. (It's Anita Blake/Jean Claude redux). Betsy is pretty nasty to him most of the time and calls him Sink Lair to irk him and be cute. (Har Har Shoot me!) Sinclair is pretty underdeveloped himself- He's dark,sexy, very blessed below the belt- the usual.  How come all the secondary black characters are so militant (that being they're only personality trait too)?<BR>Another problem is still book feels very padded. There are long conversations between Betsy and her friends that don't seem to serve much of a purpose. It's like Davidson was desperate to reacha certain word or page count. Frankly, the book's plot just feels skimpy. Davidson seemed more interested in writing the Random Happening of Betsy: Cutesy Vampire Queen than writing a truly fleshed out story arc where Betsy learns to deal with her new situation, finds love, and defeats Nostro, the evil vampire.<BR>I doubt I'll be checking out the next book. Undead and Unwed is very dissapointed and annyoing start to a new vampire series. It took the Anita Blake series eight books before it self-destructed. Tanya Huff's Blood series waited at least until the end of the second book to shove a grenade down my throat. The Betsy Taylor series wears thin after page 80.	2004-06-14
US	50744505	R2XD33V2LNSX7O	0821772287	976182173	The Awakening	Books	1	6	15	N	N	I'm a Glutton for Punishment.	At the end of my comments on Realm of Shadows, I said I would never read another Shannon Drake book again. I'm such a sadist that I decided to try this one when I found it in a used book store. ACK! I was never a fan of Shannon Drake to begin with (though I read all of her vampire romances and parts of her historicals), but I can see this is book where she really jumps the shark. It seems that she has slowly been moving away from romance in her last couple of books and more towards general fiction or horror. Frankly, that's really going to alienate the romance fans that have been following her over the years under this name and as Heather Graham. I doubt she's going to find a very receptive audience among horror fiction readers. Drake proved in her first vampire romance book Beneath a Blood Red Moon that she can be a fair romance writer, but the last couple of books have shown that as a horror novelist she is pathetically, hideously bad. <BR>The book isn't a complete waste of time if you're into the stupid camp horror that you find in 70's B-flicks. Then again this book lacks the gore factor to please that audience too. The Awakening trots out the ding-bats caught in a Conspiracy of Darkness plot that Drake is so fond of again. This time some Satanists are manipulating this overly-complex web so they can resurrect a demon to suit their one-demensional motives. It certainly is a nice change of supernatural window dressing compared to her increasingly silly and tired vampire yarns. <BR>    To set the scene, Drake pulls out every horror cliche she can think of: fog, looming darkness, cursed graveyards, troubling dreams, an old man who pratically screams \\"It's evil! Evil I tells ya! EEEEVIIIIILLL!\\" Too bad none of these elements are used effectively. Thought I am impressed they she didn't try to work the Necronicon in here somewhere.<BR>     The characters are another problem. They lack distinctive personalities. The main characters are Finn and Megan. They are a youngmarried couple. They love each other, but they've been having some marriage troubles. What kind of troubles? I don't know. Seeing as Drake is trying to make some statement about how love and trust overcomes obstacles- even pure evil- it just doesn't work when the conflict that threatens to tear them apart isn't fleshed out. Megan is cardboard flat, and only trait that compelling sexy Finn displays is his ability to be a condescending butthead. In the last quarter of the book, Drake tries to cram into all the characters from his last four books to help fight the great evil. If you haven't been following the series you'll have no idea who these people are and they seem to be there without rhyme or reason. The secondary characters' personalities are so monotone that if you just read the dialogue bits, you'd be unable to tell them apart. <BR>     But the books biggest problem is that it is nearly 500 pages long, but it's padded to heck and back. The proses are longwinded and repetative. The details of the Salem witch trials are hashed and rehashed. Megan insists that Wiccans can't do evil at least once a chapter. And Drake won't let you forget that men do evil. Maybe the biggest thing that irked me, is that very little happens in the way to warn the characters that something bad is on the way. Maybe an unexplained murder or too would have done the trick, but Drake wants us to buy into her premise because it's scary and foggy and we feel it in our bones. The people who want Megan and Finn to believe in this demon resurection thingy but offer little in the way of proof, and just say that because a handfull of superstitious nitwits believe or once believed in demons, hey, it must be true! If not for Drake hammering again and again about fog and evil, I would just think that many of these characters are fools who got sucked into some Halloween fantasy gone too far.<BR>This is a bad,bad book, but strangely enough, I'm curious to see if Drake's next one is even worse!	2004-06-11
US	50744505	R2NAJF7M8PMG2F	0312984820	322000736	Night Embrace (Dark-Hunter, Book 3)	Books	4	0	2	N	N	More Fun in the Dark Hunter Universe!	Wow! A funky paranormal series that feels like it was made just for me! This is the second book that is really set in the Dark Hunters-verse (following the loosely connected prelude \\"Fantasy Lover\\"). In some ways it is much better than Night Pleasures, but in some areas the quality drops, but I'll come back to that later.<BR>   Talon is a Dark-Hunter, an immortal night-dwelling warrior who slays the evil vampires or daimons. One night he rescues a rather absent minded artist named Sunshine Runningwolf, but during the course of the fight with a gang of daimons he is terribly injured. Sunshine takes him back to her apartment and they spend the day together. However, Talon cannot put her out of his mind and realizes that he loves her for she is the reincarnation of his beloved wife. To be with her, Talon will break one of the fundamental laws that govern Dark-Hunter behavior. However, Talon, Sunshine, and the Dark Hunters' leader, Acheron are all being drawn into the devious plot of two angry, disenfranchised gods which threatens the continued exsistance of humanity.<BR>    The great news is that in terms of style, this book is leaps and bounds above Night Pleasures. Gone is the awkward, clunky chunks of narration and dialogue. Everything flows along very smoothly. The world of the Dark-Hunters is better established so their aren't as many strangly introduced explainations. When they are nessecary, they are slipped in more naturally.<BR>     The really bad news is that Talon's romance with Sunshine doesn't feel... as right and sincere as it could be. While Sunshine shows that she has a lot of indearing qualities, most the relationship hinges on the element of \\"pre-ordained love\\" in that she is the reincarnation of Talon's wife. And time that should have been spent having Talon and Sunshine bonding in this life, they spend in bed. In fact they started sleeping together way way WAY to early! I can see why they could potentially love each other just based on this life, but they don't have the chemistry of Amanda and Kyrian's verbal sparring.<BR>    So the main relationship may not be up to par but it is off-set by Kenyon's upbeat sense of humor. The inter-actions between the Dark-Hunters is often quite funny. The daimon plot this time around is also darker, and more of an element of suspense to it. Add to the intriguing characterization of the other Dark-Hunters, and several truly poignant moments.<BR>    While in terms of being a humorous, sexy joyride, Night Embrace is more serious and less boisterous than the first book, but if we can expect more of Night Embrace in terms of writing style and plot and character developement, I will be one very happy camper.<BR>     Oh yes. The final revalation about Sunshine... can we say \\"duex ex machina\\". No more of that please, Miss Kenyon. It was the only really BLARING, GLARING error in an otherwise fine story.	2003-07-09
US	50744505	R1PP89QK7UEZGU	051512088X	46135796	Rosehaven (Song Series)	Books	1	33	41	N	N	Rape-fest Romance! So bad it's good!	As to the people trying to excuse this mess with the 'historical accuracy' argument, I think the other reviewers neglected to mention that Sevrin's behavior would be easier to swallow if this had been a story about a woman trapped in a marital nightmare. Asking the audience to believe that Hastings can honestly love Sevrin and vice-versa in all seriousness is just insulting.<BR>This book is awful, but it holds a sick, twisted charm. It's kind of like those home videos where men get hit in the groin by a football; it has tears of laughter running down your cheeks even as you cringe in sympathy. I swear that these characters are the medieval equivalent of guests on the Jerry Springer show. I've read this thing twice, and both times I've had conflicting feelings of disgust and amusement.<BR>It starts out innocently enough. Impoverished, misogynic, yet handsom and manly Lord Sevrin arrives to marry the only child of the dying land-owner and inherit the property. The daughter, Hastings, is a defiant girl with a hot temper. It becomes apparent from the first time Servin opens his mouth that he is a jerk. He also happens to be a close friend of Grealem de Morten, another of Coulter's power-mad rapists. Birds of a feather folks.<BR>The first few rape scenes are brutal, shocking, and disturbing, but after getting past the initial abuse I struck comedy gold!<BR>Watch as characters' personalities change drastically for no apparent reason. Drink some beer every time Servin yells \\"I will beat you!\\" Marvel as characters come back from the dead. Everyone is so over-the-top, from the evil ex-lover Marjorie in her quest to lure that abusive lout, Servin, back into her bed to Hastings, the heroine, as the hissing spit-fire to whom abuse, humiliation, and rape are like water off a duck's back.   <BR>In every Coulter book, the author always picks some reoccurring theme in which to be cute and funny, but ends up lame and annoying: here it's an obsession with William the Conqueror and Trist, the marten. At least it's not racing kittens. <BR>However, the ending isn't very funny. These are obviously two very dysfunctional people if they earnestly feel love towards each other. Sevrin has am obsessive need to dominate the people around him and he isn't squeamish about being brutal to achieve his ends. Hastings is proud and defiant. Though she does try to go along to get along, she has a limit to how much she can take from him. When this limit is reached she can erupt explosively. Servin probably won't be satisfied until he crushes her spirit completely, which Hastings will fight against. I can really see him killing her one day when she doesn't give into his demands. I really don't think the power of love can change Servin that much. He did revert back to a brutish lout after the part where he and Hastings started to finally get along after all.	2003-06-13
US	50744505	R3LPIJVVUADETB	0821775286	428893049	After Sundown	Books	2	9	11	N	N	Downward Spiral into Boredom	Amanda Ashley follows up the action-packed Shades of Gray with 'After Sundown'. I really hoped this would be as good as the prequel, but my hopes were soon dashed. One of the reasons the first novel was so good was because something was always happening and Gregori, the hero, had more on his mind than Ashley's usually character-type who whines constantly and fawns over his virginal sugar-baby of choice. <BR>This books focuses on Edward Ramsey, former vampire hunter turned vampire at the end of the other novel. Ed has only been a vampire for four days, and we are treated to him whining and whining and learning to feed. In fact, most of the book is Ed whining and hunting, alone or with a vampiric pal. Nothing really happens for awhile. Khira, Gregori's creator, comes to town and does villianous things, but it isn't until 2/3rd into the book do the main characters get around to actively opposing her. <BR>Another weak point is the book focuses too much on Gregori and his wife, Marisa. While I like them both, they needed to move over to the side because I've already read their story. Between the tying up of loose ends in their relationship and Ed's whining and hunting, the main couple gets pushed out.<BR>Kelley, Ed's sweetie-pie, is a nice change from the blond sweet angel of purity and brain-sucked innocence, she's still nothing more than a card-board cut out. You see Kelley was dumped by the man in her life. She fell into depression and took drugs and drank alot and she's living in a flop-house and she tried to kill herself. That's as far as her characterization goes. Ed saves her after she tries to comit suicide... and all's better after that. I'm serious. With Ed's help, in less than ten pages, she forgets all about the jerk boyfriend and walks away from her self-destructive lifestyle without a scratch. She's more worldly than the usually heroine, but I couldn't find any reason for her to fall in love with Ed so quickly, or him to get so instantly absorbed in her. Insome was she feels dragged into the story, because she has nothing to do with the plot.<BR>'After Sundown' isn't really a bad book, but it's not really a good book. I guess it's good escapist fiction if you can stand the whining and the blood drinking in a continuous cycle, but you'll find a lot of fault with it if you scratch beneath the surface.	2003-02-26
US	50744505	R2NA2DL7OF3HAX	067101420X	730430702	Forever... : A Novel of Good and Evil, Love and Hope (Forever Trilogy)	Books	1	9	11	N	N	Darci T. Monroe belongs in the Heroine Hall of Shame!	I think this is going down in my book as the worst novel of 2002. J.D. has always been a mixed bag for me. Rememberance, the Dutchess, The Maiden, and an Angel for Emily I deplore, but I've really enjoyed the Princess, the Raider, and Temptation. I've heard a lot of die-hard fans complain about how she's lost her touch. I've read some really asinine stories in my day but this one takes the cake. I only got to the half way point before it went careening into my bedroom wall.<BR>Where to begin... I'll start at the prologue. An old woman tells a child a scary story about an evil witch-lady and a magic mirror. It took me a few chapters to realize this is the back story. Maybe because its told like a fairytale it makes the villianess so one-deminsional and over the top, the Coyote from the roadrunner cartoons looks credible in comparision. Yes, she's evil and dispicable but she's evil an a generic sort of way.<BR>The plot is dumb. Okay, maybe the premise isn't dumb, but the execution is handled so terribly... Adam Montgomery hires a young woman with special powers to help him investigate a witches' coven to find answers about his missing parents. The coven operates in the open, they are known to be evil, everyone knows their behind some murders but the law doesn't go after them. Adam and Darci are supposed to be undercover, but the first thing they do is start asking random people about said evil coven. Hello! Subtlity anyone? Even more shocking is that the townspeople are willing to talk candidly about the coven that has been murdering random people and getting away with it! If an evil coven with so much power was really terrorizing the populace I think they'd be scared to death.<BR>The worst element is definitely Darci T. Monroe. In my romance reading career I've read about alot of braindead, irritating dingbats but they all look like saints in comparison to Darci. What we have here is a spoiled, dishonest, manipulative, childish brat with no moral compass whatsoever.Darci is the biggest liar I've ever seen. She lies about everything even when it's not nessecary. She lies in the first chapter and lies at least once ever chapter! She uses her True Persuasion for her own personal gain. She uses it to make Adam give her the job and used to use it to blackmail people. She said she's never used it to hurt anyone, but on the next page she tells a story about how she used to get a man arrested and make him lose his house! She repeatly acts like a five-year-old. Her personal history is convoluted.<BR>Adam is sort of a wimp. I can't believe he (or anyone for that matter) could fall for Darci Big-Mean-Liar Monroe. <BR>Please avoid this book. I tried to find at least one good thing in what I managed to force myself to read but I truely couldn't.	2002-11-10
US	50744505	R3328BR6DUIOV9	0821772279	638357043	Realm of Shadows	Books	1	9	11	N	N	Shannon Drake! Step Away From The Type-Writer!	Shannon Drake/Heather Graham really needs to get out of the horror/romantic suspense genre. This is the fourth book by her I've read and out of all of them only the first one, Beneath a Blood Red Moon is worth reading. Maggie, the vampiric heroine of the first book, was a strong, clever, compassionate heroine, but after that, Drake has given us nothing but nosey dingbats caught in the middle of a conspiracy of darkness. It wasn't quite as bad as Drake's last offering, Deep Midnight and she's cleaned up some problems that have plagued her earlier works.<BR>Tara Adair has come to Paris to visit her ailing grandfather at the request of Ann, her French cousin. At the same time, a crypt is being execavated. A horrible murder occurs and a ruthless vampiress is terrorizing the city. Gramps keeps mumbling about something called the allience and vampires, and Tara just keeps running into weird people like Brent Malone.<BR>The characters are all pretty much one-deminsional but Drake has kept the unnessecary cast of thousands to a minimum. Drake still has a problem with keeping her facts straight; Jade DeVeau is said to be still a human though in the last book said she was a vampire. Who finally get to see Rick, a loose plot thread from the 2nd novel, and Lucien and Ragnor are trotted out for no reason at all. Drake still has a problem with inserting weak, confusing scenes that make the novel seem campy, like they are from a teen slasher flick. The conspiracy of darkness is better plotted and less far-fetched than the one in Deep Midnight, but it is contered by a very far-fetched conspiracy of good. Now the secret-anti-vampire-society of the Alliance I could believe but not a weak vampire intelligence network that realies on physic vision to locate evil-doers.<BR>Tara almost seems to play no real part in the plot at all. Her cousin Ann plays a more important role than she does in moving the plot along. Tara's romance with Brent is horribly under-developed. These characters don't even really trust each other before they are sleeping together, and Brent's secret seems to make no emotional impact on Tara. But the only reason Tara is even the book (and here's what ruins it) is that she is destined to be the next vampire-slayer of the Alliance! So the evil guys have cooked up this whole conspiracy to pick off her, Ann, and gramps when they could have picked the dingbat off at in time in the last 30 years if they were really worried about her! Ha! And she can suddenly defeat the super-powered vamps with no training. No, all she needs to be handed a sword and a squirt-gun full of holy water. <BR>The half-hearted supense is were the novel's main problem thought. There is no other-worldly scary atmosphere. Shannon really can't make these novels scary because she always uses fluttering shadows and bats and wolves appearing out of nowhere. Atmosphere depends on a combination thing, and it isn't going to work if these are the only two images she can think of. <BR>In conclusion, I'm never going to read another Shannon Drake book unless her next book is agreed upon by all to be a work of literary geniuis greater than War and Peace.	2002-10-20
US	50744505	R1CJVYEIQE9PV2	0312979983	76852490	Night Pleasures (Dark-Hunter, Book 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Smashingly Good! Keep the Dark-Hunters Coming Ms. Kenyon	Woah! What a trip. I haven't read a paranormal with as much wit and energy since Dara Joy's Knight of A Trillion Stars. I'll admit this story has its share of speed-bumps, but it never loses its momentum and its got a whole lotta heart in it.<BR>   Kyrian of Thrace has been a Dark-Hunter for the last 2000+ years. His job is too hunt down the Daimons, a monsterous race that lives by sucking the blood and souls of humans(The stronger the soul, the better). His current target is Desiderious, a Daimon whose a lot stronger than he should be and has managed to kill the last couple of dark-hunters who went after him. The Daimon is cooking up a sinister plan that involves handcuffing Kyrian to a mortal vampire hunter, Tabitha Deveraux. The only flaw is that he ends up chaining Kyrian to Amanda, her twin sister. What follows is a fun exciting adventure as Kyrian and Amanda must work together to dodge murderous vamps, get unchained, and stop Desiderious. <BR>A point in favor of the Dark-Hunters books is that Kyrian is not the mourn-mourn-i'm-a-hated-vampire-god-hates-me-blah-blah type that keeps cropping up or the-super-dominant-Feehan-recyclable-Carpathian-bot model 2000. He's got a great dark sense of humor that had me in hysterics more than once. <BR>The sexual tension is at such a degree that I have expected Kyrian and Amanda to leave burning ashes in their wake.<BR>I can't wait for the next book which as about Talon, a Dark-Hunter who controls the elements and communes with the dead, not to mention the were-hunters and dream-hunters sagas!	2002-10-06
US	50744505	RABLG8HD4WXKV	0380805685	360399234	Scandal's Bride (Cynster Novels)	Books	1	10	13	N	N	Here's a first for me- Grimoire-thumpping Wiccans!	To some this book up, it's boring. I have read A Rake's Vow and I liked it. All the elements that made that book enjoyable are missing here. The plot is basically: Richard 'Scandal' Cynster and Catrion Hennesey get married because of a dead guy's manipulations and, of course, fate. That's it<br />  The first hundred pages are so are interesting, but the story quickly goes down hill. What could have been a story about a commanding alpha-male and equally commanding alpha-female went no where because they marry to easily and Richard is content to hand over the reins to Catrion. In over words, the tension and conflict is completely flat.<br />  Too much sex! It seems like Laurens couldn't think up a plot so whenever she had writers block she'd just have Richard and Catrion go to bed. Now, don't get me wrong, I like a little steam as much as the next person, but when the couple starts going at it like bunnies every 10 pages it gets really tedious.<br />  In the last hundred pages (and I my eyes were glazed over at this point), Laurens tries to give the story CPR are by having someone try to kill Richard. Super-obvious Historical Romance Mystery Time! Honestly, I couldn't have cared less. In a Rake's Vow, the mystery was more prominent and didn't feel like it was tacked on in a last-ditch effort to save this mess.<br />  But The #1 problem with this book is Catrion. Catrion is a psychic Scottish lass with a speacail connection with The Lady. Of course, Laurens never goes into this much or talk about her rituals so Catrion comes across as a religious-fanatical-maniac/guru. I even really question her so-called Wiccaness and wonder if she is a Cult leader who has enslaved her people. What I found even more disturbing was that she spouts off to just anybody about The Lady. It wasn't so long ago that they used to burn people like her (when the story takes place). She's just like any old Bible-Thumper; can't stand'em in real life and I hate'em in my fiction (unless they are theopposition). I really expected her to jump up and start ragging on the inferiority of other religions.<br />  I certainly hope Scandal's bride is only a fluke. I have about 3 other Bar Cynster novel waiting to be read. I'm gonna be really upset if the rest are this boring.	2002-09-28
US	50744505	RBA9ASNTDT6JX	0515132896	37978648	Heart Mate (Celta's HeartMates, Book 1)	Books	1	22	50	N	N	Teeth Grittingly Frustrating!	If you want to read an original, sensual, sci-fi romance pick up something by Dara Joy and skip over Robin D. Owens pale imatation. Gosh, I so wanted to like this book. I tried to, I really did, but reading it was like slogging through wet cement. I kept turning pages in hopes of something interesting happening, but it never did. I really liked Matrix of Destiny series, and I think that was what HeartMate was trying to recreate but fails miserably. <BR>The action takes place on Celta, a world were everyone posesses Flair, which alternates between being a psychic and magical ability, with your status being determined by how great your Flair is. Which brings up frustrating point number one. The parameters of Celta and the mysticism of this culture are never clearly defined and, frankly, mind-boggling! It seems to be based on Wicca, and they use crystals and such, all in a tangled up web that's more confusing than complex. And the rules contradict themselves. A Heartmate can only see a HeartGift but that doesn't stop someone from stealing in the first chapter. The thief certainly saw it!<BR>Rand T'Ash is the hero. His Flair is the most powerful on Celta and he's a nobleman who has just managed to reclaim his heritage after his family was wiped out by enemies. He lived many years as a street tough, and isn't every elegant, cultured, and doesn't feel like he fits in. He's a moody alpha-male, and as I got the feeling in this Just-Like-Dara-Joy  book Owens was going for a Just-Like-Traed hero. Rand T'Ash is no Traed ta'al Krue! He's basically an annoying, macho insufferable jerk who isn't very sympathetic. No wonder Danith doesn't want him! Danith is so intimadated by him and his status that they just don't make a good match, destiny or no! But Rand bumbles through a boring courtship, trying to convince her or his love through jewerly and lots of italicized words.<BR>Zanth, Rand's telepathic cat, was amusing. He's still a pale imatation of Dara Joy's Familiars, but by farthe best character in this book.	2002-08-07
US	50744505	R19VDLHH99H7NH	0505524724	402574196	Sacrament (Candleglow)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Should this really be touted as a Gothic Romance?	I really hate it when I'm mislead into believing that a romance novel I've picked up turns out to be a work of general fiction. I can definitly see this as gothic fiction -it has vampires, dark secrets, and a certain forboding atmosphere- but it's majorly lacking in romance. The story itself isn't bad, but it's not what I expected. I can say this in its favor, when the plot starts to lose its momentum, Squires always brings forth some new development to get it moving again.<BR>Sarah Ashton, Lady Clevancy, arrives in London to find the forbooding Julien Davinoff is trying to contest her claim on the land of her family estate, Clershing. The deed to her property is missing and she suspects Davinoff is behind it. Davinoff, on the other hand, has more to destract him on this trip into town. He must deal with a vampire murderess whose been terrorizing the populace, as well as the unwanted attentions of Sarah's best friend Corinne, a wicked widow who won't take no for an answer.<BR>Here are my complaints about this alleged romance:<BR>1. No developement for Julien. He's old, he's a vampire, we are only given his point of view a handful of time. He's basically a bored rake whose traveled the world. Somehow.. there should be more to him.<BR>2. Corinne, the evil best friend, and Sarah's relationship needed more a element of dependency to make it really work. Sarah has other friends and is content with being in the background. I don't see why she'd hang around with her especailly after what Corinne did to her in Italy.<BR>3. More developement no the vampire angle. Squires rules about the vampires are original and intriging, but they played so such a small part in the story that it could have been left out entirely. Where told Julien isn't human in the second chapter, but this isn't dealt with, hinted at, or mentioned again until halfway through the book.<BR>4.They needed to talk more about his feeling towards her, and her feelings towards him. While Sarah does better than Davinoff I really didn't get the feeling that they were attracted towards each other. I definitly felt Sarah was intimidated yet curious but it wasn't until I read an interview with Squires that I found out she was attracted. Now, I don't require a lot of raging lust but I at least need to know that the main character have thought about each other in that way. The way these two are brought close makes love between them a realistic possiblity, I needed to know more about there emotions regarding each other to make it work. They both just kind of have an epiphany about each other, and this really doesn't seem to warrant the obsessive need they have for each other in the last three chapters.<BR>Final Word: Interesting but not a romance novel. I'd like to read her upcoming 'Body Electric', but I hope she works more to develope the romance element more or stop touting the books as romance.	2002-07-29
US	50744505	R38SKHQUE6OO05	084394952X	372620519	Dark Legend (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 7)	Books	1	4	8	N	N	Same Old, Same Old from the Dark Series	After reading all of the Dark series, I've come to the conclusion that Feehan either hits the target on the bullseye or misses it completely. She will write a fairly intriging if somewhat repetative story or tripe. This falls into the tripe catagory with Dark Prince and Dark Gold.<BR>Legendary Carpathian Vampire-Hunter, Gabriel is awakened from his century old slumber, weak and disorinted. This is a bad thing because his evil twin brother, Lucien, is also up and about terrorizing Paris. As he searches the series for a human blood donor, he meets Francesca, professional do-gooder. She seems to be a human but in fact she is a female Carpathian who has expiremented with herbs to make herself human so she may eventually take her good friend, Dr. Bryce as a husband and live a mortal's lifespan. She is his lifemate so that means Gabriel is going to claim her, ruin all her plans, and basically take over every aspect of her life. <BR>Francesca is a psuedo-fiesty heroine. She says 'no' to him, but in the end she always submits becuase her resistance is only token. There's gotta be something to create tension. The tension only lasts a little while becuase by chapter four Francesca and Gabe are mating and she's forgiven him for ruining all her plans. Oh yeah, Francesca is also mad at him for 'rejecting' her centuries ago. <BR>Another problem is Dr. Bryce. He's given faults a plenty and the only real reason to make him such a weak petty person is that he likes the heroine. Human males so like the heroines are destined to a) be killed by vampires or b) turn into psuedo-villians. Bryce becomes a drug addict whose under a vamp's control. The book could have had so many new deminsions if Bryce had actually been a nice man whom Francesca had genuine feelings.<BR>There are vampires o' plenty that Gabe must destory, but this legendary hunter comes off as inept to emphasize that Lucien is more powerful of the two and as always the vampires are pathetic non-threatening (to Carpathians)ugly things. This is set in Paris, France but it could be Paris, CA for lack of European atmosphere or even French names. The only saving grace in the story is Skyler, a abused teenager than Fran and Gabe take in. She has a sixth sense so she'll probably be back later as a lifemate.<BR>Feehan seems to be getting more sensual with each book, but in Legend, this is a bad thing. The prose are so purple that I laughed several times!<BR>All I say is Dark Legend could have been much more than it was due to Feehan's clumsy handling. It needed more tension, and Feehan gave herself many oppurtunities to do just that but she chose to steer clear and stick to her tired old formula. Dark Guardian is so much better.	2002-07-27
US	50744505	R1OZJ6HA3RYPFM	0843944579	898489034	Love Me Tender (Leisure Romance)	Books	1	2	4	N	N	Space Aliens are trying to Impersonate Sandra Hill!	I love Sandra Hill. Until this book the lowest I'd ever give one of her books (Reluctant Viking) was a C. The only explanation I can find for...this.. is that space aliens have been reading Sandra's books too and have decided to write one using her style.<BR>   One of my favorite things about Hill is her over-the-top humor, but in Love Me Tender she goes waaaaay overboard. This fractured fairy-tale features a very unlikeable leading couple who are brought together by bumbling step-sisters and a rhinestone jumpsuit wearing Elvis-wannabe fairy godfather named Elmer Prelsey ( who is conspiring with God and Cynthia's dead granny no less) who kidnaps them and locks them in the same room in a castle. Sound crazy enough? Were only getting started.<BR>    The reason for this is Prince Petrico de la Ferrama is about to launch a new shoe style that will make him millions, but Cynthia Sullivan, a Wall Street Broker whose as cuddly as a porcuppine, wants to put him out of business because her pair of blue suede shoes (from his company)..... gave her a CORN! This in turn caused her to lose her job so she can't make the payment on her two million dollar status symbol apartment. She may be a shark, but Prince P.T.'s hormones go into overdrive like any Sandra Hill hero, but unlike any other Hill hero he's more greasey than sexy. He reminded me of a used car salesman. <BR>Crazy! Bonkers! Insane! That's how I'd describe this story. Sandra couldn't have written this story. It was a circus, but it wasn't a funny or even interesting one in the least.	2002-07-25
US	50744505	R1NYD5K8KFYTMT	0380773538	445765659	Midnight Angel	Books	2	30	34	N	N	Started Out Interesting, Then  Got Boring	The premise sounds interesting but the execution doesn't work. Tasia is accused of murdering her fiancee and,to avoid the hangman's noose, fakes her own death and flees Russia. With the help of her friends, she establishes herself as a governess in the home of a handsome widowed nobleman, Luke Stokehurst. <BR>First of all, I really didn't care much for Tasia or Luke. Tasia is touted as being very religious and sheltered. Yet she lets Luke into her bed just a little to easily (they aren't married) and then he has to fight her tooth and nail to get her to marry him. She ddoes a lot of other things that contradict her basic personality too. Luke is the standard issue Mr. Noncommitment arrogant nobleman. The only thing that makes him diffirent from every other arrogant nobleman is that he is an amputee (missing his left hand)<BR>My Favorite character was Emma, the sweet natured, awkard daughter of Luke and his first wife. That is how lack-luster the main couple is.<BR>Their relationship happens way to fast. Luke and Tasia maybe have one honest conversation between them where they aren't shouting and really bonding and suddenly they're in love and sleeping together. The rest of the time, Tasia is argueing with him or trying to guard her secrets. And an EVIL MISTRESS(TM) is thrown in there for extra measure.<BR>Eventually Tasia finds herself back in Russian costody, and Luke must find the real killer. I finished this book but I was so bored by the end, I really can't remember how the day is saved.	2002-07-15
US	50744505	R4VI4DUHGEXJA	0380750872	675289868	Secret Fire	Books	1	50	64	N	N	First Romance I ever read. Horrifying!	This is the first romance novel I ever read. I picked it up by recommendation of my mother, a long time Lindsey fan. This, of course, was several years ago and I have read more in the genre. When I first read it I was shocked and horrified. Recently I decided to reread it and see if it was as bad as I remembered. I still hate it! <BR>The Basic Plot goes Lady Catherine, a forceful, competant earl's daughter of impeccable moral character, disguises herself as a maid to spy on her sister. When she goes out into London, she ends up belting an oaf who makes passes at her. This is something she regrets later on for the action amuses Prince Dimitri of Russia. Dimitri is a drop-dead-gorgeous stud who mission in life is to bed many beautiful women. His level of studliness is so high that maidens fall at his feet and beg him to relief them of their virginity. Catherine isn't the drop-dead-gorgeous vixen often found in pulp romance, but still she made him laugh, causing the prince to decide HE MUST HAVE HER! (What a plot twist.) So she's kidnapped and drugged with Spanish Fly in her tea to make her comply to his will. But raping her isn't enough for our dear prince charming. He decides to take her on his sea voyage to Russia while locked in a trunk. He can't have insane peasants who claim to be earl's daughters making waves during the Tsar's visit to England. So begins a turbulent lust -er- love story. Dimitri and Catherine hiss and spit at one another alot. (Dimitri trying to get her into bed again and Catherine adamantly refusing even though he makes her tremble with desire, making him angry which makes her angry ) But that doesn't stop them from reaching their quota of hot sex.<BR>Here are the complaints:<BR>1. Catherine's rape (any court would agree with me here) is too asily put on the back burner. It's like drugging someone into having sex is dismissed as if its not wrong. Even if the moral/ethical aspects aren't dealt with, Catherine doesn't worry being pregnant or thatlosing her virginity can bar her from marriage and make her a social pariah. This was set in 1844, y'know, but I guess Lindsey figured it didn't matter since she's going to end up with Dimitri anyway.<BR>2. Dimitri has no illigitamate children! How can I believe this given Dimitri's high level of sexual activity. This guy probably thinks two days without a woman is a long period of celibacy. He should have enough kids to double the population of Bulgaria! Unbelievable!<BR>3. Catherine realizes she loves Dimitri during a fit of lust induced by being drugged... yet again... on his order.That's just sick and wrong.<BR>4. The Lust Potion itself sounds like Spanish Fly even though they never actually call it that. Just for your information, Spanish Fly is highly toxic, so you just have wonder what kind of hero is willing to poison a woman just becuase he's feeling frisky.<BR>5. And perhaps most unbelievable of all is when Catherine returns to England with a child yet no husband... and the Ton welcomes her back and assumes her husband died while she was abroad. Huh!? Every other novel I've read depicts English high society as a malicious bunch of gossips who love nothing more than to destory people on the barest breathe of scandal. She dissapears out of the blue for months and comes back from Russia with a baby with her and yet her character remains untarnished!? Sounds pretty juicy to me.<BR>Final Grade: F	2002-07-12
US	50744505	R1VO0WJGEJX7JU	0505524899	557403040	George & the Virgin	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Gold Star of Approval!	Most of the time when I'm reading a book, even if I love it, I get a bit impatient around the last chapter of the book. By then I'm ready for it to end so I can move on to the next book. This is not the case with George and the Virgin. I loved it from being to end, and said ending is one of the best I've ever read.<BR>   The book starts out with one of the funniest opening scenes ever. Alizon is trying to get a young lustiful oaf to deflower her so she will not have to take place in the annual lottery. The unlucky winner will be sacraficed to Belch, a dragon who's BO alone is enough to fell a mighty warrior, so the beast doesn't harm the villagers' precious sheep. Of course, Alizon is the unlucky winner, because the afore mentioned oaf proved too dirty for even a desperate girl to bear.<BR>    Twelve years alater, 'Saint' George is summoned from the future. George happens to a professional wrestler and is more than happy to volunteer as dragon-slayer becuase he thinks this is an excircise in creative visualization. <BR>    Alizon didn't die in Belch's jaws all those many years ago and has built a secret world on the dragon's mountain where she and virgins sent after her live in peace. She gives George three chances to slay Belch, but she wants him to fail suprisingly. (Trust me the reasons are sound.)<BR>    This book is witty and fun. Alizon and George really shine as two well suited characters who learn and grow over the course of the story. I highly recommend it for people who are looking for a light, laugh-out-loud adventure!	2002-06-26
US	50744505	RWP7V8ASK9WWE	1893896099	183257896	Vampire Apocalypse Book One	Books	1	2	3	N	N	I Must Disagree.Too fast=poor character and plot development	I didn't like this book one bit. I think the main problem was the pacing. Each story is maybe 65 pages long and that is not just enough time to make two people fall in love, espeacially if a whole other plot line is going on at the same time. While the underlying plot linking all four stories had potential, stuff that is integral to the plot line just seems to happen out of the blue. <BR>In Julien, chain-smoking vampire Julien saves Lorelei Fletcher from Nicholas after he mauls her friend Dina. Julien feels like he needs to be with her. Could this have something to do with her 'speacail' blood that will help his evolution? Lorelei stuck me as a sort of vulgar character, and they're relationship happened way to fast.<BR>In Nicholas, Dina rises from the dead with no memory of Nick's attack. It's only a matter of time before she dies again. Can Julien save her? This one was very creepy and bleak. It actually made me feel a bit nauseous at times.<BR>In Lucien, Lucien, one of the first four vampires, comes to see Julien as an ancient prophecy is beginning to play out and the lines between good and evil are being drawn. He must work with Viviene, one of Julien's subordinates, to try and piece together The Book of Changing Blood. Again, trying to put to much story in too little space. While, Lucien and Viv lovestory was helped along by their past encounter it still happened to quickly. Lucien, for his part, should have been sagely since he is like 12,000 but from the way he speaks he really doesn't sound like he holds the wisdom of the ages (he is one of the people who wrote the Book).<BR>In Lorelei, Julien and Lorelei are having relationship problems but by now I really wasn't all that interested. Lorelei is pregnant and Julien wants to know who the father is. Great, Lorelei wasn't likeable the first time and now I have to endure Lorelei on PMS. It's Julien's kid, and the afore mentioned 'side of evil' abducts her. Apparently, these dastardly villains don't want Julien'sevolution to continue or this child to be born. <BR>I for one don't really care to find out what Julien is becoming or if the world will be devoured by darkness. Unless I find the next volume of this saga in the bargain bin, I will not be reading any more of the Vampire Apocalypse. That's sad because I really enjoyed The Haunting of Rory Campbell by this author.	2002-06-13
US	50744505	R2P8IEH0MHVLEB	0505520419	598687300	Embrace the Night	Books	1	12	19	N	N	I have one word for you..... Insipid	I love vampire romance. I've been reading some really good ones and I guess I've spoiled myself with Maggie Shayne, Nancy Gideon, Keri Arthur, and Jaye Roycraft because this one really [was very bad]. I mean, I threw this one down like three times and even after promising myself I would finish it out of loyalty to my beloved sub-genre I just couldn't.<br />  The story opens up with Gabriel watching over Sara Jayne, a crippled ophan who is the essence of sunlight and purity. It's bad enough that the hero is displaying obsessive stalker-like behavior on page one, but Sara Jayne is one of those characters who you just want to slap. She's pathetic, and clings to Gabriel like a barnicle on a ship and has no idenity outside the fact that she obsesses over Gabriel. Apparently 'essence of purity and light' means too stupid to live. Gabe, on the other hand is a man of many facets.... exactly two. He hates himself for being a vampire and obsesses over Sara Jayne. Their relationship stuck me as being unhealthy...<br />Honestly, the plot is jumble of stuff meant to give them conflict. It's either I-am-a-vampire-this-love-cannot-be, Maurice, Sara's beau bend on Gabe's destruction, or Gabe's ex-lover, a vampiress who comes out of left field and tries to kill Sara for some really lame reason.<br />When I thought it could get no worse, Sara dies eventually and is reincarnated as Sarah, a sad, pathetic widow in the modern era. And so we go through it all the insipid angst and paltry emotions again.<br />I also feel I should mention the 'love scenes'. While they are numerous, they are also disapointing. Seeing how heavily steeped in eroticism the vampire mythos is, I was expecting more than what Ashley gave us. Gabriel and Sara, our obsessive lovers, should have been able to fire up more than tame,luke-warm passion. I'm not saying the author should have written them like Betrice Small does but just have thawed the couple out some more.<br />Well, I thoroughly hated this book. Unfortunatly, the have to wait until July before I can get my hands on Shadow Image, a vampire romance than promises 3-deminsional characters and a suspencful plot held together by more than random stuff happening.	2002-06-12
US	50744505	R3RED5QQUR99SQ	0449002136	883837876	The Love Slave	Books	2	7	11	N	N	Hallow Love Story	Regan MacDuff is thirteen when - to protect her non-virgin twin sister- she takes Gruoch's place in her wedding bed...Whisked away to a convent, it seems like prayer day in and day out is what her future holds. Fate has other plans. Regan will become Zaynab, a Love slave, the most skilled of courtesans.<BR>I'll start off by saying that I'm giving this two stars because it's obvisiou Bertrice Small put a lot of effort into researching this period and the Muslim culture, but that's really all I can say for this story.<BR>My first problem with The Love Slave was the characters. There are some genuinly interesting conflicts that could have done much for the book except for the way the characters are presented to us. Small keeps the reader and the characters at arms length instead of letting us get really close to them. After four hundred pages I felt no closer to Zaynab than I did on page one. <BR>Zaynab doesn't have much depth because she's as perfect as a Barbie doll. She's the most gorgous, most sensual, smartest, maturest, wisest, bravest, kindest woman to ever live. She always knows what to do and it's always the right thing. Every one who meets her worships the ground she walks on except the villians and even their hatred of her feels half-hearted. She's able to learn languages, music, and love slave stuff with no difficulty, and she never ever feels in a bit of vulenablity or fear. As a result of her being so perfect, and Smalls writing style as mentioned earlier, most of her emotions come off as trite and paltry, like how she claims to love Karim more than any of her other doleful worshippers. We never see any evidence of this when said scenes with Karim are playing out but she says so 100 pages later.<BR>Sure, whatever you say, Zaynab. <BR>The other characters aren't much better drawn. The villains are dastardly, Zaynab's lovers adore her, and the servants are most loyal bunch ever assembled.<BR>.... Technically, Regan/Zaynab has 6 parterners. Now I don't minda more mature heroine, but 6 men in four years is not the kind of thing I want to read in a romance novel, espeacially since Small is so graphic when it comes to sex. Is it tittilating? Nope. It's funny and disturbing. The prose are so purple that you'll need sunglasses to protect yourself from the ultraviolet light they pratically emitt and had me laughing out loud several times. The only thing that Zaynab feels with any earnesty at all is lust, and she feels it often since that is the main focus of the book, at least that's what I thought.	2002-06-10
US	50744505	R3G3QR9ZC25IO5	0380756277	641921275	Prisoner of My Desire (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	1	43	80	N	N	Has the Whole World Gone Insane?! This is Disgusting!	I feel that I must say something due to the popularity of this novel and other Lindsey books. I don't like her style, her characters, or her plots. I find nothing sexy about her rapist heroes, and I'm shocked that one could like this book about a brutal vengeful man and a dimwitted heroine.<BR>While Rowena I could sympathize with because she was between the probervial rock and a hard place, she also irrated me because her miniscule brain couldn't come up with the solution to just explain her reasons for her actions to Warrick in the first place. Warrick is brute, plain and simple. He's a rapist, and bad tempered, he tortures a pregnant woman, and he made a few passes at his illegitamet daughter who he makes work as a kitchen slave. He's completely hateable.     <BR>I read this book with the openmouther horror usually reserved mega-disaters. I was even more horrified to see how many people find this book the sexy thing in world! Has the whole world gone insane?! What is wrong with you people? Ask yourself, 'would I find it erotic to be chained up and raped by a man who hates me?' What disgusts me the most is that Lindsey makes the rape sound like it's no big deal and there is nothing wrong with it. Warrick doesn't even hurt her while he's doing it! I'm no doctor, but I'm pretty sure he would have done some major damage to her.<BR>I hate these books with forced seduction and 'slipping aphrodisiac' into her tea (Secret Fire). It's rape. 'No' means 'No. Can you imagine what it would be like to have this happen to you in real life? It wouldn't sexy; it would be traumatic. Maybe if this were in the erotica genre I wouldn't be pitching a fit, but don't call it romance. This is not in the least about love.	2002-05-19
US	50744505	R3LUIF899FSFK0	0843949848	878699126	My Fair Viking	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Vikings have never been this fun before!	Sandra Hill is written another eletrifying tale brimming with humor and romance. In this edition to the Viking Saga, Adam, a famed Saxon healer, is at a low point. He won't practice medicine and he's given up on women. His friend Rashid tries everything to pull him out of his slump, but then fate steps in. Tyra, a fierce viking warrior, arrives to fetch him so he can save the life of her father. <BR>The attraction between them is sudden and powerful, but Adam refuses to budge on his position that he's no longer a healer. Tyra is left with no choice but to &quot;convince&quot; him to help her meaning she thwacks him with her sword, tosses him over her shoulder, and sails to Norway... with Adam tied to the mast of her ship.<BR>This marks the beginning of a passionate, sweet, humorous tale. It never takes itself seriously and its bizarre humor provides many laugh out loud moments.<BR>The supporting characters are a delight. While simplistic, the plot is original. Like all of Sandra Hill's viking novels, this one's going in my reread pile. Highly recommended.	2002-05-11
US	50744505	R1KB64E3F4AR1Y	0451200268	88590264	Devil's Embrace (Devil's Duology)	Books	1	149	176	N	N	Devil is right... An Evil, Cruel, Sick, Twisted Novel.	I am aware that Coulter pushes the envelope sometimes, but this book is just inexcusible. I can't decide if I find I'm more amazed that it was published in the first place or that Coulter appears to be proud of this monstrosity. But I'm getting ahead of myself.<BR>   Cassie.. I have nothing against the poor girl. In fact, I liked her quite a bit. She deserved none of the terrible things that happened to her. Apparently, Coulter hates her. It is the only way to explain the sadistic way she treated.<BR>     Cassie, seventeen and in love a soldier named Edward, forgoes her season in London to marry her sweetheart post haste. The day before her wedding, she sailing when Anthony Welles's, Earl of Clare, yacht over takes her small craft. He forces her onboard, wrecks her boat against the rocks so everyone will think she's dead, then cheerfully announces his intentions of taking her to Italy to marry, whether she wants to or not. <BR>     I hate Anthony. He should be castrated. I think he just be the most vile 'hero' to ever make his way into the genre. Anthony is twice her age and he loved her intitally because she looks like her dead mother who he was also in love with. He claims he loves her for herself after watching her blossom over the years. Cassie tries using logic to persuade him to take her back, but..oh, this jerk has an answer for everything. His smugness when he explains his skewed version of reality to Cassie as if she were a stupid child is what I hate most about him. Yes, and he does talk to her as if she were a child. Daddy knows best I guess. (Yuck!)In his twisted mind, the way to get her fall in love with him is to degrade her. Of course, he rationalizes it in his own speacial way to make it seem like she is acting like a hysterical ninny. When he first rapes her, it's taking her virginity to ensure she can't go back to Edward. When he whips her, it's light discipline. When he forces her to sleep naked with him, it's getting her used to him.<BR>    If there's anything to recommend about this book its the prose. They are very well written. Suprisingly, the dialogue runs smoothly. Absent is Colter's annoying 'sex dialogue' where the hero discusses the heroine's 'soft white belly' etc. Anthony has a few of those lines but they sound more clinical than stupid. <BR>There is nothing in the least romantic about this book. I could finish it, but from other reviews I've learned many other tradegies befall poor Cassie. This book is just evil. Cassie and Anthony's relationship kept making me think of stepfather who rape their stepdaughters. When Cassie starts to feel desire for him, I can only shake my head and sigh. Obvisiously, he's repeated \\"You will come to love me\\" so many times she's become brainwashed. This is a stomach-churner and I can't concieve of why it was reissued. I thought the whole rape/captive stories had been dead and buried but I was wrong. It's novels like this that give the genre its bad name. <BR>In short, 17-year old heroine + smug rapist hero= vomit inducer.<BR>This is the story of the degradation and abuse of a young girl disguised as a romance.	2002-03-21
US	50744505	R17JTCO6MSY8A	1551668866	752693205	Twilight Hunger (Mills & Boon Nocturne)	Books	3	15	16	N	N	Ambivalence.... but leaning more towards 'good'	I can't make up my mind about this one. Parts I really really liked, other things about it... I'm not so sure about. Usually when I feel ambivalent about a novel, I end up disliking it. I think what I expected from this book was a romance, but it needs to be approached from a general vampire fiction stand point.<BR>    Morgan DeSilva is a struggling screen writer who falls in love with the vampire Dante after she reads his journals containing his life story. Thinking him a long dead mad man, she uses his story as the story line for a series of popular movies. Fast forward 5 years, Morgan is dying from her Belladonna antigen and on the brink of winning an Oscar. Dante comes to her small town in Maine, hunted by the surviving members of the DPI. He is furious to find out that Morgan has been publishing his secrets. Can he put aside his mistrust and safe Morgan?<BR>     That is plot one of the story. I thought Morgan and Dante needed to talk more, and I really didn't like Morgan. I think Maggie Shayne went overboard on making her seem like a poor little rich girl and she's plagerizing her screen plays which made her come across as basically dishonest. It seems like Dante has been completely rewritten from what we were told about him in Twilight Vows. Sure, he mentions things from Vows, but it seems more like an after thought than to explain why he is the way he is. And beware one very creepy, graphic journal entry involving Dante and a woman of loose morals. I liked plot two a lot better.<BR>      Maxine is a young woman who has a conspiracy theory for everything. One night, she goes to investigate the burning wreckage of the DPI HQ. She sees a man crawl from the burning building and picks up a disk he drops. On the disk she finds information on vampires that the DPI knows about. The next day a man calls her, threating her mother and friends if she says a word about what see saw the night before. 5 years later, she and her cop pal, Lou, find themselves tangling with the DPI agent Frank Stiles when a friend of Lou is found murdered by a vampire. The trail leads to Morgan since Dante's, the character in her movies, is identical to the DPI's file on Dante. <BR>    It's a good thing I liked this plot line better because it took up most of the book. I liked the suspicious Mad Maxie a lot better than Janet Dailey-esque Morgan. The only really creepy thing about this plot line, is Maxie's attraction to Lou who is twenty years older than she is. <BR>     This is a fast paced, fairly interesting read. I'd give 3 and half stars; however, I think more could have been done to make this story better. I think it would have been much better if Maxine had been the lead female character. Yes, I lead more toward like than dislike on this one but I hope Maggie Shayne does better in the next Twilight book. Twilight Hunger wasn't quite up to par with the rest of the series.	2002-03-05
US	50744505	R3CN3JC6H662O3	0373484585	297405260	At Twilight	Books	4	24	27	N	N	Not as Good as Wings in the Night but still noteworthy	Yipee! More of the Twilight Series. I have a few complaints about this one, but mostly it's the publisher's fault. Firstly,  the stories of printed out of chronological order. And Secondly, for the retail price, they could have included Twilight Vows (my favorite of the series.)<br />In Born In Twilight, the pesky DPI goes one step to far when they impregnant newly turned vampire Angelica with Jameson Bryant's baby. Jameson and Angelica don't like each other at first, but find they must team up to find their child. I liked Jameson and the characters from the other books, but it took me longer to warm up to Angelica. She was going to be a nun and she spends a lot of time spouting off about how all vampires are immoral devil-spawns. When she sees otherwise, she becomes less self-rightous and more likable.<br />Beyond Twilight is the better and shorter of the two stories. The DPI Ramsey Bachman from Twilight Illusions has a new mission. Capture Cuyler (Is that really a name?) Jade. The whimsical Cuyler tworts him in amusing ways until she decides to meet him face to face. Their meeting sparks a bond that is only between vampires and the Chosen, but Ramsey doesn't have the Belladonna antigen... or does he?<br />Can't wait for Twilight Hunger...	2002-02-25
US	50744505	R3GWWM5CTEKOHR	0505524686	315765226	Midnight Embrace	Books	2	14	15	N	N	A Review of A Darker Dream-er... Midnight Embrace	Deja Vu! When I finished Midnight Embrace I felt as if I had been in a time warp because this book is basically a rewrite of A Darker Dream with elements from some of Ashley's other vampire novels. <BR>The novel starts with orphan Analisa Matthews dying of plague. On a whim, a mysterious stranger gives her a strange elixer that saves her life. The elixer is vampire blood. (Deeper than the night) Vampire Alesandro de Avallone, charmed by her innocence, becomes her mysterious and indulgent benefactor. (A Darker Dream) Analisa quickly discovers his secret when she stumbles upon his lair. Still, she can't help but love Alesandro and he can't stop himself from loving her. Then they start going to the opera and parties together and things get pretty inane while Alesandro atempts to drive Analisa away from him. <BR>     This book is only a slightly better rewrite of A Darker Dream with one exception, the villainous vampire Rodrigo who is basically the Italian version of Alexi from Shades of Grey. Instead of adding suspence to the story, he made it drag out longer and some of the stuff he did didn't pan out, like his aprentice vampire. He gets a whole short chapter were he makes one but then we never hear about it again. <BR>      The first hundred pages and the last fifty are pretty interesting, but the majority of the middle was a complete bore. Basically scenes in Ashley's previous books are rewritten to fit into this one. (Scene were heroine spends time in vampire lair during day sleep. The ill fated suitor meant to make vampire hero jealous.)It became a game to pick out the similarities. <BR>       I can't really recommend this book because of it's startling lack of originality. If you've never read an Ashley book.. Give it a try! But if you have read A Darker Dream...	2002-02-25
US	50744505	R2U5973ODBZFGY	050552113X	405508282	Deeper Than the Night	Books	1	6	8	N	N	Destined for the garbage pile	The only thing remotely fun about a god-awful book is writing a scathing review. How where, I don't think even this will wash the bad taste of Deeper than the Night from my mouth.<br />The writing style is very juvenile. The descriptions are blah. We're pretty much left to call of a generic image of the places in the book. The characters are the worst part. Kara is a cardboard cut out of a woman. She just kind of ...is. She's got no personality or hobbies. She's just there to be the love interest. Alexander is a little better drawn. He has some shadow of a personality. He hates himself, writes books, and mourns AnnaMara, his dead wife.<br />The way these two fall in love is stupid. I hate novels were the characters meet twice and are in true-love even though they know nothing about each other.<br />I agree with the other reviewers who hate that he is really an alien. It's like Ashley started out with a vampire novel in mind but changed her mind half way through. Alex's novel &quot;Dark Gift&quot; is suposed to be his life story and it's about vampires.<br />Telling us Alex frequents prostitutes is a little too much information. That fact made the book lose more brownie points. (negative 100 at this point)<br />After the big 'I'm an Alien, Kara' scene (I bet the author was laughing at us when she wrote it) I skimmed through the book looking for any redeeming feature at all. What I found made me toss it in the trash. After one of the love scenes, Kara immediately asks Alex if he believes in God. I wasn't sure if I wanted to laugh uproariously or sob.<br />Do yourself a favor and don't read this. It my cause brain damage.	2002-01-11
US	50744505	R3AJJGX27RPQQW	0505522438	17111671	Shades of Gray	Books	3	12	15	N	N	Good book unfortunately ruined by an anticlimatic ending	I absolutely hated Ashley's A Darker Dream but the premise of Shades of Gray sounded too interesting to pass up. I must say, the author has definitly improved.<BR>Marisa Richards is an ordinary woman. She never would suspect that attending a road-side carnival would put her life in danger. The carbival's main attraction is Count Alexi Kristov, a dormant vampire of terrifying power. The scent of Marisa's blood awakens the count from his centuries long slumber.<BR>Fortunately, Grigori Chiavari has been tracking Alexi for some time so he may take revenge on him for killing his children and turning his wife into a mindless puppet. Grigori decides to protect Marisa at all costs. He doesn't plan to come to love her. Following Grigori and Alexi, Marisa also gains professional vampire assassin Edward (a common name among vampire hunters) Ramsey as a protector. But will it be enough to stop the deranged monster?<BR>The book had a great start. Grigori was an intriging hero because he's not a 'life-is-a-curse' type which can spoil a book for me. The first half is riddled with great conflict, the anomosity between Edward and Grigori, Marisa dealing with the fact that Grigori is a vampire, and even Grigori being torn between his wife (who he wants to free from Alexi) and his budding love for Marisa.<BR>It's not until after the heroes return from their time-traveling quest that the book starts to drag. The suspence element that exsisted earlier is gone while Alexi licks his wounds. Things get mundane as Grigori and Marisa prepare for their wedding. <BR>Sadly, the nose-dive is the climax or what tries to pass for one. Instead of a big fight scene, Alexi ( who is portrayed as the super-powered mega-evil until this point) is pathetically easy to beat. Edward gets turned into a vampire, says 'I guess I'll be going now' and leaves as if he where going out to fetch the paper instead of being tranformed into what he hates. It's like Ashley decided she needed to wrap everything up in thelast thousand words.<BR>Despite it's problems the first half of the book is strong enough to make it feel like it was worth the time and money you put into it. While a feel cheated by the ending, I enjoyed it enough to recommend it others with a word of caution. It's not going to be everyone's cup of tea.	2002-01-09
US	50744505	R25VFO2KI7ZTHM	0505523302	21482417	Dark Prince (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 1)	Books	1	17	23	N	N	Went around in circles. I'm dizzy....	Mikhail, Prince of the Carpathians, is thinking about ending it all when he is contacted by Raven, a telepath. He's suprised to discover she is his 'lifemate', the woman who will save his soul and keep him from becoming a vampire. Even more suprising is that she is a human...<BR>  Okay, so the beginning of the book was different. I read the book quite quickly until about page 80 when I realized I was going in circles. After Raven and Mikhail meet in person for the first time, they keep coming back to the fact that Mikhail is to arogant and possessive. After the first sex scene, I felt like I was in a time warp. They argue, make love, and argue again about that same issue. Mikhail refutes it anytime by restating the importance of a lifemate. I had to force my way through the book. If I hadn't read later books in the series, I wouldn't have picked up another one.<BR>     Another thing I had trouble with was the fact that the Carpathians are so powerful. They shape-shift into anything and everything, can control people from miles away, and that's just the beginning of the long list. Why not just call them gods? Feehan is expecting me to believe human vampire hunters are a THREAT to these superbeings?<BR>      The villians are just plain pathetic. The human vampire hunters are plain stupid. About the only thing they sucessfully accomplish is putting Raven in position were it is imperative that she become a Carpathian.<BR>      When does this take place? Oh... it's also good thing that everyone in the little back-waters mountain village knows how to speak fluent English.	2002-01-07
US	50744505	R2LLZ30UY2P87L	0373484372	521584074	Wings in the Night: Twilight Phantasies / Twilight Memories / Twilight Illusions	Books	5	31	32	N	N	Excellent, well-written vampire stories!	I was first introduced to Maggie Shayne when I was treated to a short novella in a Intimate Moments vampire anthology. I usually hate series romance so it was a big suprise that I enjoyed the story and it stuck out in my mind for years.<BR>I was delighted when Sillhouette decided to reprint her first three vampire stories, none of which I had read before. In Wings of in the Night I got not one, but three vampire stories that make other authors pale in comparison.<br />In Twilight Phantasies you are introduced to Eric Marquand, a scientist vampire. Eric has been watching over Tamara Dey, one of the Chosen (rare humans who can become vampires), for most of her life. Tamara believes she's going crazy because of strange dreams and her inability to sleep at night. She feels like she knows Eric from somewhere. What's worse is that she's a member of the DPI, a government organization interested in vampires.<br />In Twilight Memories the troublesome DPI is harrassing our heroes again. Roland has sworn himself to protect a young boy who is one of the Chosen. If it wasn't enough that federal agents weren't crawling around the French countryside, but the reckless Rhiannon has come to town. She's come to lend a helping hand and seduce Roland.<br />In Twilight Illusions we meet Damien, an old powerful Summerian vampire. He is a magician. One night, he has an encounter with one of the Chosen named Shannon. Shannon accuses him of murdering her best friend. Damien can only think that he did it and doesn't remember, or another vampire is stalking the streets. Regardless, Shannon is next...<br />These stories are excellent. I can't wait until the next volume comes out. Shayne stays close to the traditional vampire powers and weaknesses that we've all heard of but isn't afraid to add a few of her own creations. <BR>The most original is the Belladonna antigen, which acts like a magnet between vampires and the Chosen. It brings them together and helps start the relationship but doesn'tcause the instant love that many vampire authors rely on.<br />Maggie Shayne the queen of the vampire story.	2001-12-23
US	50744505	R3IG9JK8J451TT	0373484372	521584074	Wings in the Night: Twilight Phantasies / Twilight Memories / Twilight Illusions	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent, well-written vampire stories!	I was first introduced to Maggie Shayne when I was treated to a short novella in a Intimate Moments vampire anthology. I usually hate series romance so it was a big suprise that I enjoyed the story and it stuck out in my mind for years.<BR>I was delighted when Sillhouette decided to reprint her first three vampire stories, none of which I had read before. In Wings of in the Night I got not one, but three vampire stories that make other authors pale in comparison.<br />In Twilight Phantasies you are introduced to Eric Marquand, a scientist vampire. Eric has been watching over Tamara Dey, one of the Chosen (rare humans who can become vampires), for most of her life. Tamara believes she's going crazy because of strange dreams and her inability to sleep at night. She feels like she knows Eric from somewhere. What's worse is that she's a member of the DPI, a government organization interested in vampires.<br />In Twilight Memories the troublesome DPI is harrassing our heroes again. Roland has sworn himself to protect a young boy who is one of the Chosen. If it wasn't enough that federal agents weren't crawling around the French countryside, but the reckless Rhiannon has come to town. She's come to lend a helping hand and seduce Roland.<br />In Twilight Illusions we meet Damien, an old powerful Summerian vampire. He is a magician. One night, he has an encounter with one of the Chosen named Shannon. Shannon accuses him of murdering her best friend. Damien can only think that he did it and doesn't remember, or another vampire is stalking the streets. Regardless, Shannon is next...<br />These stories are excellent. I can't wait until the next volume comes out. Shayne stays close to the traditional vampire powers and weaknesses that we've all heard of but isn't afraid to add a few of her own creations. <BR>The most original is the Belladonna antigen, which acts like a magnet between vampires and the Chosen. It brings them together and helps start the relationship but doesn'tcause the instant love that many vampire authors rely on.<br />Maggie Shayne is the queen of the vampire story.	2001-12-23
US	50744505	R2OLRR3JXLGUQD	0786000201	50399028	Midnight Kiss	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Interesting.... but.....	Louis Radman is a vampire looking for a cure for his condition. He travels to England to seek out Dr. Stuart Howland. Howland concocks a risky treatment that may or may not work. If being the doctor of a creature as dangerous as a vampire isn't stressful enough, his daughter Arabella has taken an interest in the mysterious stranger.<BR>    After reading Midnight Enchantment and Midnight Temptation I was really expecting a lot from this book. For the whole first quarter when Louis is still a vampire there isn't any mild passion or anything. Just out of the blue, after Louis becomes human, he loves Arabella.<BR>     I didn't really like the two leads. It was the two evil vampire, Gerard in particular, that made things really interesting. It would have been better if they were more involved in the story. Bianca is a wicked vampiress who lives to torment Louis. Gerard is the former best friend who alternately revels in his undead state and thinks he deserves it for killing his family in a haze of blood lust. It's a shame they are really only the focus of a small portion of the story.<BR>    Another small nitpick that drove me crazy was calling Arabella countess after she married Louis. He is a marquis, so shouldn't she be a marquioness?<BR>    I really just couldn't get into this book. While putting a less optomistic light on vampires was okay in Gideon's other books, I don't feel it worked here very well. I would only make the effort of finding this out of print book if you are very curious or liked her later novels.	2001-12-23
US	50744505	R3J83T9W3K9KAF	0786000546	499833041	Midnight Temptation	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Wonderful Vampire Story	Growing up can be hell and Nicole has it worse than most people. Not only does she discover that her father is a vampire, but genetics have seem to transfered his unholy cravings to her as well. Afraid and confused, Nicole runs away to Paris. She isn't inside the city an hour before her money is stolen and she is left penniless.<BR>   Fortunately, she is taken in by a group of idealistic bohemiens. One of them, Marchand, she is powerfully attracted to. Marchand is not without complications himself. Wanted for deserting the army of an unjust king, Marchand takes whatever work he can find to make sure his irresponsible friends have food on the table. Their relationship is complicated by the changes that are being wraught in Nicole.<BR>    To make matters worse, Nicole finds herself the apprentice of the evil vampire duo, Gerard and Bianca. Enemies of her father, they try to find out where her parents are hiding while slowly corrupting Nicole. It becomes a true test of character when Bianca and Gerard decide to make Marchand her first meal...<BR>    This is an awsome story. A cut above most vampire romances. Nicole and Marchand's love is pushed to the breaking point many times. It is a very interesting read. Being out of print, the books are hard to find at a reasonable price, but they are well worth the effort of tracking down.	2001-12-01
US	50744505	R2KSQ2KO2PYURA	0505524503	376574179	After Twilight	Books	2	10	15	N	N	Average. But what can you expect from an anthology	I bought this book for the Christine Feehan story all I was sadly dissapointed with every story.<br />Masquerade was a vampire story by Amanda Ashley. Ho-hum. Jason is the clique tortured vampire crying-all-night hero. That enough in itself was enough to make this boring. Why can't we find any vampires that are at least content with life? What also turned me off about this story was the ending. Good gravy! Ashley seems to love the cure of vampirism plot device that fell from the sky like in her other novel that I read. <br />Dark Dream, another installment in the Dark series, was also disapointing. I expected great things from it, having read an teaser from the author's website. The first chapter sets itself up for good things, but falls flat on its face from lack of conflict between characters. Falcon and Sara don't even interact with each other about 3/4ths of the story. The rest of the time they have one big vampire hunt.<br />The werewolf story is another one of those wham-bam cure for supernatural status stories. Just skip this one. Better yet, skip the whole book.	2001-11-28
US	50744505	R28JY9CQ2SL9WP	050552208X	66170138	A Darker Dream (Love Spell romance)	Books	1	7	10	N	N	Another tortured vampire. Ho-hum.	This is the story of Rayven, a standard issue 'I'm a vampire, Hear me Mourn' vampire. His dark world changes dramatically when he buy Rhianna from her father. He falls almost instantly in love with her because she's the paragon of sunlight and goodness, ect. just like so many other heroines who wander into the sub-genre.<br /> Rhianna has as much personality as a fence post. Most of her dialogue throughout the book consisted of &quot;Yes, my lord.&quot; Being Rayven is the tall,dark, dangerous, and oh-so tortured hero she falls completely in love with him in record time too.<br /> The rest of the novel is spent dallying around the subject of &quot;I love you, but I have to give you up becuase I'm a Vampire and I might kill you.&quot; It's enough to make a person scream!<br /> Besides the plot, I never got a sense of period which is bad since this is a historical vampire romance. What I hated most about this book was the ending. It's WHAM-BAM super-contrived cure for vampirism. If Rayven's old mentor knew about this all those centuries ago why didn't he just change him back then? WHY!?<br /> I would only recommand this for fairy-tale romance lovers who don't can how illogical the plot is as long as people say 'I love you' alot. If you are like I am, and prefer more realistic books look else where. Read Maggie Shayne or Nancy Gideon.<br /> Vampires are pretty interesting. Usually a little angst is okay, not this soul-consuming depression that Rayven goes throught. I also prefer when hero and heroine have some wit about them, and actually work around the whole immortal vampire-mortal problem instead of rushing towards a solution that just drops from the sky to end the book.	2001-11-28
US	50744505	R3JNCHM8NFMEES	0425150429	737040288	Time without End	Books	3	1	5	N	N	An o-kay book	I found this book at be an interesting read. It wasn't god-awful like Forever and the Night, and it wasn't awsome like For all Eternity. It's somewhere in the middle ground, and that's kind of disapointing because Valerian is the most charismatic in this vampire-verse.<BR>The bad news before the good. It's kind of annoying the way it jumps around from first to thrid person and back again. I'm pretty sure the general premise was ripped off from a movie I saw years ago on Lifetime. Lastly, the reoccuring vampire-romance love-trigger I absolutely hate (Lost Love Reincarated)was used in this book.<BR>The good things are the plot was well paced. It devels into Daisy's pastlives, all of which were quite unique. In one life she was a tavern houri. In another she ran a saloon. I especially like that it doesn't have the-standard-heroine-becomes-a-vampire-so-they-can-be-together-forever ending. Another plus is that Valerian is a non-brooding vampire who has lived an over-all enjoyable 600 years.<BR> This one's worth a look-see.	2001-10-17
US	50744505	RY460V0KZRGWN	0821768379	970928892	Deep Midnight	Books	1	2	3	N	N	Awful..Simply Awful	Where do I begin with what's wrong with this book? The writting style is as bland as old shoe leather. The plot is way to far-fetched to be believed. The characters are boring. Jordan and Ragnor could have been cut out of card-board for all the personality they displayed. If it wasn't bad enough, that the leads were horrible, but the book is further hampered by a cast of thousands that serves no purpose at all. Drake needs to get a better proof-reader. I'm positive that Ragnor's flashback to the Viking days was somehow printed out of order. <BR>This book was just awful. Is there anything good about it? No. Don't read it unless you want to fall asleep. This should work quicker than valium.	2001-10-17
US	50744505	RERHXYKTVZBP2	0505524473	740687630	Dark Fire (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 6)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The defining book in paranormal romance	It's the awsome,incrediable romantic novel I've read in a long time! While a lot of romance novels are quite sensual, few of them really make me believe the main characters really,truly, maddly love each other. Tempest and Darius have incrediable chemistry. I've vastly enjoyed the 'Dark' series but this is by far the best. I can truly believe that if Tempest and Darius weren't destined to be lifemates they'd love each other any way. You don't need some mystical it-was-fated plot element to bring these to together. That's how well their relationship developes.<BR>Out of all of the other 'Dark' series heroines, Tempest is my favorite. She is still the beacon of goodness and light, but she's tougher than her predicessors. Life has given her some really hard knocks but she's always managed to bounce back. Darius isn't at all like the heroes of the other novels. He was more willing to compromise, and more understanding of how much emotional upheaval Tempest was going through when she got tangled up in the Carpathians' affairs.<BR>I can't wait for 'Dark Legend'. I can only hope it lives up the greatness of 'Dark Fire'. My hat goes off to you Ms. Feehan.	2001-10-17
US	50744505	R2WNOTTKP29RCC	050552421X	958396308	Scarletti Curse (Candleglow)	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Couldn't finish it	I really like Christine Feehan. This book was very dissapointing. The plot had promise. Nicoletta was a sweet heroine. The prose were good, and the medival Italy setting was an interesting change of pace. However, the plot flows like molasses in January. I managed to get half way through before I through the book down and went back to the 'Dark' series.	2001-10-16
US	50744505	RX7H1FYXODOOR	0425140601	979048587	Forever and the Night	Books	1	7	10	N	N	As entertaining as a soggy waffle	I hated this book. It was awful. It's a good thing I read the very awsome For All Eternity first because if I hadn't I never would have picked up another book by Miller. Yes, it's that bad.<br />  Enter our heroine. She's as interesting as a brick and twice as stupid. Not only that she's being chased by the mob. What does she do? Hides out with her brother and nephew, one of the first places the baddies look.<br />  Neely meets Aidan, a standard issue moody, 'life is so painful' vampire. Aidan is an even worse character than she is. He whines dispairingly the whole novel. They lay eyes on each twice, speak maybe three sentences to each other and decide they are maddly in love. They spent maybe half the book at best in each others presence and the rest of they time they are lementing their forbidden love. Boo-hoo. The rest of the time Neely spends in hidding, and Aidan tries to become human again.<br />  I can't believe soo many people liked it. They have no relationship at all, just seemed like a lot of sex to me. If you liked these, and even if you didn't, check out Charlaine Harris's &quot;Dead Until Dark&quot;. The vampire and heroine actually have an honest-to-god relationship in that one.	2001-10-04
US	50744505	RRAO89MYWPRKO	0671027514	330556012	Springwater	Books	1	4	8	N	N	Less Focus on Romance, more focus on the mundane	I do declare this is probably one of the worst books I've ever read. It's so boring I couldn't even finish it, and it's short in comparison to some other novels. I never even got the feeling that Evangeline and Scully were atracted to each other. They were just suddenly in love. But what bothered me the most was that every two pages some is either using the chamber pot, or the outhouse, or needs to &quot;twiddle&quot; as it was put. I've never read a romance that took such interest in bodily functions.	2001-06-06
