US	50747141	RXX1CI0WKX2TZ	0679447563	471273987	The Beleaguered City: The Vicksburg Campaign	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Chu!	I'm emptying my bank account and then some, to buy this audiotape. Seek not the lower star reviewers opinions! This is well worth the $2,000 plus price tag. I will personally debate anyone who says otherwise, and I will dogdance the floor with him/her! The meliflous, Deputy Dog southern accent comes across on this tape much better and more crisply than other Shelby recordings! Don't even get me started there!<br /><br />This is it, folks! Worth three grand, if you ask me! I hope you guys/gals don't beat me to second guessin' myself! That would not  be good! I want some more reviews! I want some more definitive answers!<br /><br />I'm questioning that \\"over 13\\" thing?  Hmm. This is hard!<br /><br />BEK	2005-07-21
US	50747141	R19B67R0MGFPEO	0061059064	694992048	Jingo (Discworld)	Books	5	14	20	N	N	An Apt Title	This is my sixth Discworld experience. As to a rating, vs other Discworld Novels I've read, I would place it somewhat below REAPER MAN, MORT, and MONSTROUS REGIMENT, on a par with THE LIGHT FANTASTIC, and well above THE COLOR OF MAGIC.<br /><br />As you can deduce from the title, Pratchett here takes on the notion of jingoism in all its absurd manifestations. Dr Johnson's famous dictum about patriotism \\"Patriotism is the last refuge of a scoundrel\\" is brought vividly to life by Mr Pratchett. A series of incidents initiated by the sudden emergence of a land mass in the middle of the Circle Sea has led to a renewal of enmity between the denizens of Ankh Morpork and their ancient rival/enemies, the Klatchians. The obvious parallels here are to the long held mistrust and misapprehension beween the Christian west and the Muslim mideast. Considering that the book was first published in 1998, Terry P was awfully prescient in many regards.<br /><br />The warfare, while humorous, has it's serious side. A hitherto innocuous butler is driven by patriotic fervor to bite an enemy's nose off, for instance. Think of some of the more absurd anti war movies (PRIVATES ON PARADE, OH, WHAT A LOVELY WAR, KING OF HEARTS) for a taste of what Pratchett offers up here.<br /><br />At the center of all the action is the venerable Sam Vimes, head constable of the Ankh Morpork Watch (police). He is the level headed one in the midst of all the screwball goings on. We also get to see The Patrician (overlord of the city) in a new light. His machinations are a marvel to behold. The usual assortment of offbeat characters (a troll, a female werewolf, a zombie, a dwarf, an imp in a pocket watch) are also along for the merry ride. A parodic version of Leonardo Da Vinci (Leaonard of Quirm) is another in Pratchett's great gallery of weird characters.<br /><br />As is his wont, Pratchett says an awful lot about some serious issues constantly confronting humankind, without being in the least onerous or heavy handed about it. He is the modern master of such satire. The same sort of outlook that informs Gulliver's Travels is at play here. This could actually serve as a companion piece to another of Pratchett's anti-war send-ups, the aforementioned MONSTROUS REGIMENT. I recommend both, highly.<br /><br />BEKous or heavy handed about it. He is the modern master of such satire. The same sort of outlook that informs Gulliver's Travels is at play here. This could actually serve as a companion piece to another of Pratchett's anti-war send-ups, the aforementioned MONSTROUS REGIMENT. I recommend both, highly. <br /> <br />BEK	2005-05-24
US	50747141	RELI7N3O6TLW1	0320062953	108713442	Beethoven (French Edition)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	What the?	Unbelievable that this book is out of print and so hard to acquire! Ludwig was a great biographer and this is one of the best of his biographies, second perhaps to his great bio of Napolean.<br /><br />It was one of my favorite reads ever when I first came across it in a college library back in the early '70s, when I first became interested in Ludwig Von, partly in response to li'l Alex's hero worship in A Clockwork Orange, and partially a result of listening to the Ormandy/Serkin recording of The Emperor Concerto, until I wore out the vinyl on the record. One thing led to another (Von Karajan's recording of the 9th, also included in the Kubrick film), Lennie/Serkin, etc.<br /><br />I also recall tonight a truly execrable film called \\"Beethoven's Nephew, made back in the '80s by a filmmaker who had a slant to convey that was entirely unresearched an unhistorical. Absolute tripe! Yes, Beethoven had a \\"troubled\\" relationship with nephew Karl, but it didn't warrant the sort of mudslinging innuendo that so called \\"filmmaker\\" flung at one of the world's great cultural icons.<br /><br />Seek out the Ludwig bio for an actually carefully researched look at the man who was one of the great revolutionaries of his and any age.<br /><br />If you must seek out a movie that actually conveys some semblance of the actual man, watch Immortal Beloved. It's got its innacuracies as well, but doesn't drag the man's reputation into the dirt.<br /><br />BK	2005-04-11
US	50747141	R1UX9DQNFM6J6B	0061020621	690753180	Reaper Man	Books	5	59	62	N	Y	Dead, Depressed? Feel Like Starting it All Again?	REAPER MAN is my introduction to Pratchett. Upon finishing it, I immediately ordered four more Pratchett novels. The man's a comic/cosmic genius. I had always been put off by what appeared to be the mass market packaging of his books. I thought he was just another pop fiction author. I couldn't have been more wrong. The usual comparison is to Douglas Adams, whom I also greatly admire, but I find that I respond even more viscerally to Pratchett.<br /><br />It's not too difficult to figure out who the main character is in this book.  But this Reaper has less to do with a Durer print than he does with the character as filtered through the mind set of Monty Python in THE MEANING OF LIFE. \\"Bill Door,\\" the Reaper's flustered attempt at a moniker as he assumes his earthly identity, is one of the drollest, funniest comic characters in recent literature. He is a master of understatement. His deadpan delivery is spot on. The puns and the throwaway lines come fast and furious, throughout the book. Yet Pratchett also adds a sense of poignancy as the Reaper engages in a terrestrial romance with the somewhat addled, but strong willed Miss Flitworth. We come to care about what happens to them.<br /><br />Pratchett does a masterful job of juggling several subplots, involving Wizards, a Wolfman and several other equally bizarre, but comical secondary characters. I couldn't describe all these plots and subplots coherently if I tried. Suffice it to say that what would dissolve into pure incoherence in a lesser writer's hands, holds up like juggled hourglasses in Pratchett's hands.<br /><br />I had the impression that Pratchett couldn't be an important writer \\"and\\" be as prolific as he's been. Wrong. I've started several of his other books (THE COLOR OF MAGIC, THE LIGHT FANTASTIC, SMALL GODS and INTERESTING TIMES) and see that some of my favorite characters are included in other volumes. I can't wait to finish them! I definitely have to thank my Reviewer Friends for having urged me to check into Pratchett Land. As parallel universes go, Discworld can't be surpassed!<br /><br />BEKed me to check into Pratchett Land. As parallel universes go, Discworld can't be surpassed! <br /> <br />BEK	2004-11-23
US	50747141	R3DZLJOXGKAG75	0316926051	253013485	A Handful of Dust	Books	5	119	127	N	N	One of the Master's Best	You know that when you see a passage from Eliot's THE WASTE LAND appearing before the title page that you are not headed for 300 pages of fun and games. Sure there is the usual stock of Waugh humor, wit, and snappy dialogue to be had here, but this ranks as amongst his darkest novels. It's tragicomedy at its finest. It's also one of the most beautifully written novels I've ever read, perfect in pitch, cadence, wording, razor sharp characterization, mood, you name it.<br />Like a number of his novels, it is set primarily in England, between the wars, bouncing back and forth between London and an Estate in the country. The plot boils down to the break up of a marriage and the decline and fall of the central character, Lord of the manor and eventual \\"Explorer,\\" Anthony (Tony) Mast.<br />Tony means well. He really does. It's just that he's so fixated on maintaining Hetton, his hereditary estate, that he doesn't even notice when his lovely wife Brenda engages in an affair with an inconsequential and boorish young society chap to whom Waugh assigns the inglorious name, John Beaver.<br />Waugh's customary drollery comes to the fore as he depicts the cavalier attitudes towards the affair on the part of Tony's and Brenda's social circle. They are rather like actors in a Restoration play, whose moral compasses have become entirely skewed. Though not as moralistic as some of Waugh's late novels, A HANDFUL OF DUST definitely offers a portrait of a very decadent society, indeed. These are not sympathetic characters. Even the two children who enter into the plot are hardly what one would call likeable.<br />This novel definitely takes some unexpected turns, leading us eventually to a denouement in the Amazon Jungle. The ending has to rank as one of the greatest in literature.<br />I can't recommend this book highly enough. The English are greatest satirists and Waugh was the master of the genre amongst 20th century writers. I've got a couple more Waugh books on my list, but will go with VILE BODIES next, as it's already on my shelf.<br />This edition has print large enough that I didn't need my reading glasses. It's the quickest 300 page novel I've ever read. It only took about 6 hrs cover to cover, and I am not a fast reader. I really was so transfixed that I had to read it straight through, which I don't usually do these days.<br />BEKwill go with VILE BODIES next, as it's already on my shelf. <br />This edition has print large enough that I didn't need my reading glasses. It's the quickest 300 page novel I've ever read. It only took about 6 hrs cover to cover, and I am not a fast reader. I really was so transfixed that I had to read it straight through, which I don't usually do these days. <BR>BEK	2004-06-23
US	50747141	R1S2RKX940ETGF	038549744X	710198060	English Passengers: A Novel	Books	5	47	49	N	N	Best Epistolary Novel Ever?	The once popular genre, associated with Richardson, Laclos, Scott, Fielding, Sterne and Austen has pretty much fallen out of fashion. Kneale revives it brilliantly here. He employs 19 seperate narrators to tell this tale of exploitation, genocide, greed, adventure and misadventure. In the hands of a lesser artist, such a crazy quilt arrangement would lead to chaos. Kneale manages the seperate voices like a master marionette artist. Each character rings true, even the most eccentric. Each scene, even the most fantastic, remains true to the logic of the book as a whole. No small accomplishment, indeed.<br />The narrative focuses primarily on the arrival of Europeans (primarily English settlers) to the island of Tasmania and to the expansion of their &quot;civilization&quot; in the middle of the 19th century. In order for this civilization to thrive and expand, the aboriginal population had to go. They just didn't fit in. Several of them, including one of the narrator's (Peavy's)mother, were downright intractable. Conflict ensues. Though the aboriginal peoples come out on the short end of the stick, one half-caste does enact some good old fashioned revenge towards the end of the tale.<br />The other main thread deals with a scientific exhibition led by a minister (Wilson)  in search of The Garden of Eden, and a doctor (Potter) interested in collecting human samples of various peoples in the hope of advancing his theory of a natural order of races, just as Darwin had advanced his theory of the order of species. A third English passenger, a young geologist named Renshaw, doesn't figure as prominently in the plot as the aforementioned, but does provide some clear-headed satirical insight into the goings on.<br />The funniest and most sympathetic character, apart from the Aboriginal narrators, is Illium Quillian Kewely, an old salty smuggler from the Isle of Man, Captain and proud owner of the uniquely designed sailing vessel &quot;The Sincerity.&quot; He, Peavy, and Renshaw provide the only reliable main narratives. He's also one of the most colorful and memorable characters in recent fiction. He and his Manx-speaking crew are involved in an entirely different mission than that of the passengers. The manner in which Keale juggles the intertwining plots is another example of his artistry.<br />The villains are true rotters. The Reverend Geoffrey Wilson is full of conceit and self delusion. His sole preoccupation is with securing fame and fortune by proving his hair-brained notion that Tasmania is the actual location of the Tigris and Euphrates mentioned in Genesis. His stubborn pig-headedness will have dire consequences for the expedition. The manner in which Kneale eventually deals with him is brilliant.<br />Wilson's mortal enemy is Dr. Thomas Potter. Potter is based in part on Jean-Louis Agassiz, whose evolutionary theories involved a break-down of races into various categories, the dark races occupying the bottom rung. Such categorizing had obvious ramifications on much of the history and conflict of the 20th century. The fact that Potter's top rung of the evolutionary ladder is occupied by &quot;the Saxon Type&quot; is meant as an historical harbinger.<br />The only enjoyable thing about either of these characters is that they hate each other so vividly. Their animosity sustains many of the humorous episodes of the novel, until it turns more serious towards the end. Potter's fate is another piece of grand invention on Keale's part.<br />If you're in the mood for a big, grand read, by a novelist at the top of his game, look no further. This one definitely moves to the top of my chart for novels read in 2004. It's thoroughly enjoyable, absorbing literature of the first rank.<br />BEKnshaw provide the only reliable main narratives. He's also one of the most colorful and memorable characters in recent fiction. He and his Manx-speaking crew are involved in an entirely different mission than that of the passengers. The manner in which Keale juggles the intertwining plots is another example of his artistry. <br />The villains are true rotters. The Reverend Geoffrey Wilson is full of conceit and self delusion. His sole preoccupation is with securing fame and fortune by proving his hair-brained notion that Tasmania is the actual location of the Tigris and Euphrates mentioned in Genesis. His stubborn pig-headedness will have dire consequences for the expedition. The manner in which Kneale eventually deals with him is brilliant. <br />Wilson's mortal enemy is Dr. Thomas Potter. Potter is based in part on Jean-Louis Agassiz, whose evolutionary theories involved a break-down of races into various categories, the dark races occupying the bottom rung. Such categorizing had obvious ramifications on much of the history and conflict of the 20th century. The fact that Potter's top rung of the evolutionary ladder is occupied by &quot;the Saxon Type&quot; is meant as an historical harbinger. <br />The only enjoyable thing about either of these characters is that they hate each other so vividly. Their animosity sustains many of the humorous episodes of the novel, until it turns more serious towards the end. Potter's fate is another piece of grand invention on Keale's part. <br />If you're in the mood for a big, grand read, by a novelist at the top of his game, look no further. This one definitely moves to the top of my chart for novels read in 2004. It's thoroughly enjoyable, absorbing literature of the first rank. <br />BEK	2004-06-21
US	50747141	R30CV4RWOJLPSW	014044033X	561709353	The Confessions (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	59	67	N	N	Sure, Jacques...sure	There are certain books that are cornerstones in your life. This is one of mine. A lot of the Romantic self-centerdness that marks my character can be traced directly back to this guy. But then again, whatever my expansive vision and love of variety and the vagaries of human nature can also be traced back to this cynical, but at the same time genial soul.<br />Rousseau, like Voltaire and Diderot, his contemporaries, could look upon his fellow man and himself with both a frown and a smile. He claims at the outset of the work that he is going to show you himself as he honestly is, warts and all. Don't believe him! But don't turn your back on him either, or dismiss him as a liar! You would be denying yourself the company of one of the most charming alluring reconteurs in all of literature, should you do so.<br />Monsieur Rousseau absolutely loves talking about himself. That sounds like a recipe for boredom, I know. But the trouble is, he's got such a fascinating subject. He knew everyone who was anyone in the 18th century. The women, in particular, were the actual movers and shakers of fin de siecle France. They were figures who presided over literary salons when there actually were literary salons. Madame de Stael is only one matron who looms large in the account. France was basically ruled by powerful and cunning women in that era.  Rousseau was there, mentally recording every intimate bon mot and detail.<br />Then there is his infectious, expansive nature to win you over! Try as you might, self centered as the man is, you can't help liking the guy! He is the ultimate Romantic, in the best sense of the word. He believes in his soul that mankind is noble, that we were put here on earth to enact a divine plan for the benefit of all. That the French Revolution would show a different, Hobbesian side to his theory doesn't really diminish his optimistic, humanistic influence on the Romantic movement and ultimately 19th century literature, in general. He's one of those seminal figures without whom Goethe, the Romantic poets, Blake, Emerson, Whitman, etc. wouldn't have been possible.<br />This is a great book. Liar, hedger, whatever, you really will get to know this character in all his colors, subterfuges, moods, etc. Love him or hate him, you will have to admit that he's like no one you have ever met. Unfortunately.<br />BEKeminal figures without whom Goethe, the Romantic poets, Blake, Emerson, Whitman, etc. wouldn't have been possible. <br />This is a great book. Liar, hedger, whatever, you really will get to know this character in all his colors, subterfuges, moods, etc. Love him or hate him, you will have to admit that he's like no one you have ever met. Unfortunately.<br />BEK	2004-06-16
US	50747141	R3OASW90EKW0XR	1582343519	119397910	Dot in The Universe: A Novel	Books	4	10	10	N	Y	You'll Never Look at Tea Cosies the Same Way Again	Lucy Ellman is a revelation. She's an American expat who has taken up residence in England and has acquired the saucy edginess of some of the better English satirists (think of a female Waugh or Amis). While maybe not yet in that league stylistically, she is, at least on the basis of this book,  equally as funny.<br /> Ellman's central character, Dot Butser starts out relatively pleased with herself, with her middle class English seaside lifestyle and with her sexually charged husband, whom she believes to be a deep sea fisherman. As the story unfolds, Dot's universe unravells. Hilariously. Bit by bit, Dot comes to see the sordid truth behind the comfortable facade that she has created for herself. She embarks on a quest of self-discovery, depression, suicide, rebirth (several rebirths, in fact, as an assortment of creatures that will have Buddhist and Hindus everywhere chuckling knowingly to themsleves). Finally she comes full circle, in a nice, ironic ending.<br />Readers who are offended by course language should steer clear. Ellman has the vocabulary of your typical longshoreman. She's pretty graphic about bodily functions and sexual proclivities. But she's not Andrew Dicey Clay. There is a point to her vulgarity, as it reflects the environment she so wittily demolishes. Like all good satirists, she's not too high on the present state of society, neither in England, nor even more negatively, in America.<br />About the tea cosies. It will give you a brief idea of Ellman's style and humor to illustrate Dot's preoccupation with them. It drives Dot's philandering husband, John, up the wall that she is so obsessed with the things:<br />&quot;Particularly perturbing to him was Dot's TEA-COSY COLLECTION. They reminded him of his grandma's UNDIES, saggy, baggy and stained.... . Dot's tea cosies were ancient, home-made WOOLEN concoctions, knitted by women inexplicably driven to provide the world with decorative structures in which to house teapots. &quot;<br />Some readers may be put off by the stylistic device of using ALL CAPS for emphasis, however, I found it an integral part of the humor. I didn't always understand what motivated the choices for why particular words were so emphasized, but I wasn't distracted by it.<br />Ellman has a great satirical eye and comedic voice. I'm certainly looking forward to reading more titles from this lady. If you're a fan of British satire, or just enjoy a fun, brief read now and again, this short, episodic novel will fill the bill. I had to deduct one star for one Ellman device that gets a bit tiresome after a while. She's obsessed with lists. Sometimes the lists are rather clever and funny. At other times they are mind numbing and one wants to have done with them. In the overall scheme, it's a minor annoyance and Ellman fully succeeded in keeping me entertained for 200 pages.<br />BEKaders may be put off by the stylistic device of using ALL CAPS for emphasis, however, I found it an integral part of the humor. I didn't always understand what motivated the choices for why particular words were so emphasized, but I wasn't distracted by it. <br />Ellman has a great satirical eye and comedic voice. I'm certainly looking forward to reading more titles from this lady. If you're a fan of British satire, or just enjoy a fun, brief read now and again, this short, episodic novel will fill the bill. I had to deduct one star for one Ellman device that gets a bit tiresome after a while. She's obsessed with lists. Sometimes the lists are rather clever and funny. At other times they are mind numbing and one wants to have done with them. In the overall scheme, it's a minor annoyance and Ellman fully succeeded in keeping me entertained for 200 pages.<br />BEK	2004-06-14
US	50747141	R354R8PHL1P26Y	0394755340	348168093	Crackpot: The Obsessions of John Waters	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Not a Serious Bone in His Body	First, let me say that this book should have more universal appeal than do his movies. We all know that his movies are just too gross for some people to stomach, but there's nothing here that any adult reader should find offensive. If you enjoy homorous writing, a la Woody Allen, Steve Martin, Joe Queenan, David Sedaris, etc., you should find this little volume right up your alley.<br />Waters displays an acerbic, eccentric, but highly insightful comic sensibility. There are fifteen short pieces here, which first appeared in various magazines during the mid '80s, primarily NATIONAL LAMPOON (When it was still funny) and AMERICAN FILM.<br />The book opens with a bang, in one of the funniest pieces, &quot;John Waters tour of L.A.&quot; Needless to say, this is not the L.A Chamber of Commerce &quot;official guide.&quot; He takes us to some of the seamier sights, including the spot on Hollywood Boulevard where you can catch &quot;the legless, one-armed white guy who break-dances on the street for horrified families as they stroll up the Walk of Fame.&quot; He also offers some timely,timeless advice for when you're driving around L.A: &quot;Never look at pedestrians; they're the sad faces of L.A., the ones who had their licenses revoked for driving while impaired.&quot;<br />There really aren't too many weak entries in the collection. He does go a bit over the top in his rhapsodizing of Pia Zadora, perhaps, in an article devoted to that queen of glitz, but one comes to expect &quot;over the top&quot; from Waters. Who would want it any other way? He's also very much the exaggerator when it comes to his likes, &quot;Puff Piece (100 Things I Love)and his dislikes: &quot;Hatchet Piece (100 Things I Hate).&quot; Amongst the things he most admires are Supermarket Tabloids: &quot;Then I gazed at the great LAS VEGAS SUN wire-photo of a giant ostrich, escaped from a zoo chasing a totally bewildered middle-aged woman down the street. Every time I see her horrified expression, the creative juices start to flow.&quot; Not content with this passing mention, he writes an entire article entitled WHY I LOVE THE NATIONAL ENQUIRER as a paean to that fine bastion of journalistic integrity.<br />Some of Waters' images do convey a bit more of the &quot;so banal it's hysterical&quot; quality of his movies, as when he conjures up &quot;a fancy Santa,&quot; in a piece called WHY I LOVE CHRISTMAS.<br />&quot;Why hasn't Bloomingdales or Tiffany's tried a fancy Santa? Deathly pale, this never-too-thin-or-too-rich Kris Kringle, dressed in head-to-toe unstructured, oversize Armani, could pose on a throne, bored and elegant, and every so often deign to let a rich little brat sit NEAR his lap before dismissing his wishes with a condescending 'Oh darling, you dont REALLY want that, do you?&quot; I mean, really, wouldn't you just love to have John Waters' private phone number and be able to shoot the breeze with him about popular culture? No!! you say? Well then this book's not for you. However, if you enjoy mordant, biting wit, and a breezy, conversational style of writing, this book is definitely for you. It was sent me by a friend. I'm going to be sending a few copies out to other friends now. Who knows, maybe we could start a John Waters cult?<br />BEKcreative juices start to flow.&quot; Not content with this passing mention, he writes an entire article entitled WHY I LOVE THE NATIONAL ENQUIRER as a paean to that fine bastion of journalistic integrity.<br />Some of Waters' images do convey a bit more of the &quot;so banal it's hysterical&quot; quality of his movies, as when he conjures up &quot;a fancy Santa,&quot; in a piece called WHY I LOVE CHRISTMAS.<BR>&quot;Why hasn't Bloomingdales or Tiffany's tried a fancy Santa? Deathly pale, this never-too-thin-or-too-rich Kris Kringle, dressed in head-to-toe unstructured, oversize Armani, could pose on a throne, bored and elegant, and every so often deign to let a rich little brat sit NEAR his lap before dismissing his wishes with a condescending 'Oh darling, you dont REALLY want that, do you?&quot; I mean, really, wouldn't you just love to have John Waters' private phone number and be able to shoot the breeze with him about popular culture? No!! you say? Well then this book's not for you. However, if you enjoy mordant, biting wit, and a breezy, conversational style of writing, this book is definitely for you. It was sent me by a friend. I'm going to be sending a few copies out to other friends now. Who knows, maybe we could start a John Waters cult? <br />BEK	2004-05-20
US	50747141	R3C3MWQOMUT2DP	0375725601	517121775	The Devil in the White City: Murder, Magic, and Madness at the Fair That Changed America	Books	4	752	803	N	Y	An Entertaining and Informative Read	Erik Larson does a bang-up job of conveying what life must have been like in the &quot;Second City&quot; as the 19th century drew to its fitful conclusion. Bristling at the constant reminder of New York City's superiority in so many areas, Chicago's city fathers rallied the troops and went all out in proving to New Yorkers, to the nation and to the world that Chicago was equal to the great challenge of mounting a World Exposition of truly monumental stature. Larson's descriptions of the Herculean effort put forth by numerous architects, builders, politicians, etc. lead the reader to a true appreciation of these &quot;can do,&quot; spirited individuals.<br />Yet beneath the teeming activity and a short distance away from the gleaming white Pleasure Palaces of the Fair, there stood a building of a different sort entirely, inhabited by one of the most vicious, truly evil creatures the young nation ever produced. Larson does an adequate, but not great job of telling the darker story surrounding H H Holmes, the mesmeric Svengali whose brilliant blue eyes and engaging charm seduced at least a score (one estimate was up to 200, which the author disputes) unfortunate women. Unlike Jack the Ripper, to whom he was later likened, he didn't limit himself to female victims. Business partners who had outworn their usefulness and several children were amongst his prey, as well. He just had a penchant for murder.<br />The sections on the construction of the Columbia Exposition are filled with fascinating anecdotes, ranging from the origins of the sobriquet &quot;windy city (derisively coined by Charles Anderson Dana, Editor of The New York Sun)&quot; to the dramatic entrance of Annie Oakley, barreling in on horseback and blazing away with her two six-shooters in Buffalo Bill Cody's Western Show adjacent to the Fair Grounds. Larson also provides an interesting side story surrounding Patrick Predergast, a delusional political aspirant who turns assassin.  He paints a compelling portrait of Fredrick Law Olmstead, American History's premier landscape architect who took up the almost impossible task of designing and overseeing the Exposition's parks and lagoons. The hero of the book, however, is Daniel Hudson Burnham, who was ultimately responsible for the lion's share of the planning, construction and smooth running of the entire enterprise. He had a little over two years from the time Congress selected Chicago from a list of candidate cities that included Saint Louis and New York, to the day of the Expo's official opening. That he got the job done within the alloted time is one of the great marvels in an age of marvels, especially given the myriad difficulties which he and his crew had to overcome.<br />The Holmes narractive appears a bit lackluster in comparison to the story of the Fair's construction. Larson acknowledges the difficulty he faced in recreating Holmes' vicious crimes via imaginary vignettes. He states in an afterword that he went back and read Capote's IN COLD BLOOD for the technique in which Capote so brilliantly engaged in his imaginative reconstruction of events. The only problem with this approach is that Capote had access to and the confidence of the two killers that are at the center of IN COLD BLOOD. Larson had only newspaper accounts from the period as well as a very unreliable journal that Holmes wrote after he was tried and sentenced to death (he was hanged several months after the trial). It would appear that Larson goes a bit too far out of his way to avoid the lurid and sensationalitic aspects of Holmes' killing spree. One has only to visit some of the numerous web sites devoted to Holmes to see that Larson is particularly reticent to discuss Holmes' sexual deviance. This is understandable, as Larson wants to be taken seriously as an historian, yet the facts are out there (most of them well documented) so it wouldn't have hurt to have included a bit more of the darker details. The book could also have used more illustrations. The Chicago Tribune,  at the time the story first broke in 1894, included a detailed floor plan of the &quot;Chamber of Horrors&quot; Holmes built on the corner of Sixty-Third and Wallace in the Englewood section of Chicago. That illustration would have given the reader a better sense of the bizarre layout of the structure. More pictures of the Exposition would have also been helpful. Here again, there are several sites on the web devoted to the Columbia Exposition that have many pages of great photographs.<br />The books virtues far outweigh its shortcomings and I have no problem in recommending THE DEVIL IN THE WHITE CITY to anyone interested in US History, Chicago Architecture, or just a well told story.<br />BEKustrations. The Chicago Tribune,  at the time the story first broke in 1894, included a detailed floor plan of the &quot;Chamber of Horrors&quot; Holmes built on the corner of Sixty-Third and Wallace in the Englewood section of Chicago. That illustration would have given the reader a better sense of the bizarre layout of the structure. More pictures of the Exposition would have also been helpful. Here again, there are several sites on the web devoted to the Columbia Exposition that have many pages of great photographs. <br />The books virtues far outweigh its shortcomings and I have no problem in recommending THE DEVIL IN THE WHITE CITY to anyone interested in US History, Chicago Architecture, or just a well told story. <br />BEK	2004-04-27
US	50747141	R1YH81Q5XDUSAD	0375707425	580961678	Embers	Books	4	31	40	N	N	Not Quite Classic Status	EMBERS is an excellent novel, and Marai was obviously an accomplished story teller, but I can't concur that this work ranks with the likes of Kafka, Mann or even Zweig, as the Die Ziet reviewer enthuses in one of the cited reviews. There is merit in the crtic's comparing Marai to Joseph Roth, however. I would even venture to guess that Roth's The Radetzky March had some bearing on Marai's depiction of the old General who is the central character in the novel. There is also the common theme of the death throes  of the Austro-Hungarian Empire and the rigid, yet elegant social standards it represented.<br />The General is like Roth's Grandfather Trotta, as he represents the old military code, that first and foremost demanded strict and total subservience to the Emporer and his cause. One's every thought and every waking breath was dictated by tradition and unbroken order. Pitted against him in Marai's work are his best friend and his young wife, who represent spontaneity, passion and modernity. The General comes to the insight that he was the complacent, self assured stalwart slave to convention and that Krisztina and Konrad were &quot;different,&quot; and part of the subtext of the story is an almost Derrida like treatment of &quot;the other.&quot;<br />What prevents- this from being a work of the first rank is Marai's partial failure in providing a compelling narrator. The General is just too long winded and formal a figure to sustain the narrative in any truly convincing manner. I did enjoy the way in which Marai unfolds information, however, and thought that the plot was handled masterfully. It reminded me of an Egoyan movie, in which the culminating revelation slowly and gradually comes into focus, while the audience remains in suspense.<br />I definitely recommend the read. It doesn't take long, and Marai's prose is indeed as elegant as a display of Viennese dressage. I'm happy that the book was rediscovered and adequately translated. I look forward to the promised future Knopf editions of Marai's works.<br />BEKmised future Knopf editions of Marai's works. <br />BEK	2004-04-23
US	50747141	R1CF04IFOPMBAM	1569470545	56387718	Hippopotamus	Books	4	22	25	N	N	Great 2/3s of a Novel	Stephen Fry is a very amusing guy and he's created one of the truly memorable modern comic characters in the figure of Ted Wallace. Think of a cross between Dylan Thomas at the dyspeptic end of his career and The Ginger Man, and you'll have some notion of what you are in for. Lots of great, misanthropic musings on the fallen state of civilization, with several screamingly funny throw away lines inserted here and there like verbal land mines. At several points in the first two thirds of the book I had to put the book aside and laugh (to the point of tears) for a full five minutes at a time.<br />Fans of the Larry David show on HBO would enjoy Ted. Like Larry, Ted is a person that most everyone hates, yet he nevertheless remains likeable, somehow. He's a complete boor to his children, his ex, his employers, his friends, yet his sense of humor keeps the reader thinking that somewhere beneath the blubbering bombast there has to be a shred of humanity remaining. As the novel progresses, more and more shreds are revealed.<br />This is part of the problem. Ted, the wise-cracking curmudgeon, is much more interesting and entertaining than Ted, the suddenly avuncular, caring godfather and father of the last few chapters. Likewise, Fry's plot, which holds up fairly well the first two thirds, unravells rather disappointingly in the finale. One more instance of a very clever writer having a bit of navigating difficulties when it comes to satisfying resolutions. I'd much rather Ted had stayed in character and had kept on being his unpleasant self, with the possibility of Fry picking up the character in subsequent books. I don't see that possibility here.<br />AS for other aspects of the book, some work, some don't. The epistlatory format is hit and miss. These are some really looonnngg letter writers. The minor characters are more charicatures than fleshed out, believable figures, though this is one of the marks of satirical writing in general and not that big a distraction. Some of the female characters, in particular give Ted every bit as good as they get in terms of verbal skirmishes. A gay character gets to be tiresome with his mannered expressions. He starts out funny, but he's definitely not what could be termed a sympathetic character, by any stretch.<br />While The Hippopotamus doesn't hurl Fry into the front ranks of modern British satirists, it is a very decent effort. Though it is decidedly uneven, I have no problem recommending it as an often funny, entertaining read. 4 1/2 Stars.<br />BEKome of the female characters, in particular give Ted every bit as good as they get in terms of verbal skirmishes. A gay character gets to be tiresome with his mannered expressions. He starts out funny, but he's definitely not what could be termed a sympathetic character, by any stretch. <br />While The Hippopotamus doesn't hurl Fry into the front ranks of modern British satirists, it is a very decent effort. Though it is decidedly uneven, I have no problem recommending it as an often funny, entertaining read. 4 1/2 Stars. <br />BEK	2004-04-07
US	50747141	RB6LZO7IL6BNM	0679428895	451458080	Pompeii: A Novel	Books	4	72	97	N	N	Fun, Fast-Paced Historical Fiction	If you go into this book expecting latter-day Tolstoy, you're going to be disappointed. Harris is not reaching for that rung. He's canny enough to understand his mass market audience. That's not really meant, as a knock, however. The fellow can write, and he has clearly done his homework.<br />Sure, the plot is a bit melodramatic and the characters are not exactly three dimensional, but the book's a gas and Harris provides just enough arcana that the reader learns something while hurtling through his/her speedy voyage along the 1st c. Italian coast. I found the information about Roman aqueduct construction and maintenance particularly interesting. Harris had to have done a fair amount of research into the subject, and works his factoids into the novel's exposition rather cannily.<br />As I intimated, the characters are, for the most part, MGM cut-outs, but I did find the author's depiction of Pliny the elder amusingly eccentric. Pliny the younger is depicted as a zit-faced teen, for what reason I don't know. Harris has a grudge for Pliny the younger? The corporate villain, Attilius, however, was lifted straight from the pages of Petronius. The author even acknowledges that Attilius' banquet is basically a reproduction of Trimalchio's famous feast. That's fine, but rather lazy, as well.<br />I recommend this book as a light, breezy read. Not much depth, but highly entertaining.<br />BEK	2004-01-17
US	50747141	R3DWQ3ETOIGRNJ	0142003697	139671172	Michelangelo and the Pope's Ceiling	Books	5	186	191	N	N	Highly Entertaining and Informative	I'd seen this book and BRUNELLESCHI'S DOME in bookstores for quite a while. I just couldn't bring myself to purchase either for a very silly reason. The author's name, Ross King, just didn't sound very authoritative to me, for some reason. More a name for a movie actor than a Rennaissance biographer. As it turns out, that was a baseless bias. King definitely knows his stuff, as the book's bulging bibliography will attest to.<br />Purists may be put off by the fact that this book is so entertaining, that it can't possibly be serious scholarship. I say let them stick to Jacob Burckhardt, I'll take Ross King, any day. This is a masterly book, and King is an excellent story teller, marshalling his facts and arraying them in taut, controlled prose. His is an excellent overview of the full panoply of figures and events that made late 15th, early 14th c. Italy such an extraordinary place and era. Michelangelo lived in a time that teemed with larger than life figures. The Borgias were still wielding influence in Florence and Rome. Amongst Michelangelo's contemporaries that put in an appearance in the book are the firebrand priest, Girolamo Savonarola, Martin Luther, Machiavelli, and two of the other greatest artists of the Rennaissance, Leonardo and Raphael. The rivalry between Michelangelo and Raphael is one of the keynotes of the book. Raphael and his team of artisans were frescoing the pope's private rooms in the Vatican at the same time Michelangelo was frescoing the massive vault of the Sistine Chapel. Raphael is depicted as an expansive, open-minded, hedonist, good looking and attractive to all. Michelangelo is a &quot;jug-eared, flat-nosed, and rather squat, somewhat miserly loner, who also happened to possess an unparalleled artistic genius.<br />King is particularly adept at conveying exactly how delicate and painstaking the art frescoing actually was. The artist would have only a brief window of time to apply the precious pigments before the plaster dried. Michelangelo started the project knowing very little about the involved techniques necessary to perform under such a timetable. As the months and years went by, he became so adept that he could paint ever larger sections at breakneck speed. He had to learn his craft on the fly, however, under incredibly difficult conditions.<br />King dispels a couple myths that have come down to us, primarily via Irving Stone and from the movie version of his novel, THE AGONY AND THE ECSTASY. It is highly unlikely that Michelangelo had to paint any sections of the ceiling on his back. He did however, have to assume some rather uncomfortable craning postures for hours at a time. It's also evident that the artist didn't work alone on the project. He would hire assistants as the need arose. He definitely didn't mix his own pigments, for instance, a time consuming, exact and laborious task in itself. This in no way diminishes just how Herculean an effort he exerted, however. The sheer physical toll the painting exacted on his body was quite real. His spirit was drained by the enterprise. It was, after all, not a project he was eager to pursue. Had it not been for the overbearing will of Julius II, he would have turned the opportunity down and concentrated instead on sculpture, his first love.<br />This is a book I recommend without reservation and it goes to the top of my current list of reading suggestions. It's relatively brief at just over 200 pages and will keep anyone with even the slightest appreciation of art and of genius riveted.<br />BEKangelo started the project knowing very little about the involved techniques necessary to perform under such a timetable. As the months and years went by, he became so adept that he could paint ever larger sections at breakneck speed. He had to learn his craft on the fly, however, under incredibly difficult conditions.<br />King dispels a couple myths that have come down to us, primarily via Irving Stone and from the movie version of his novel, THE AGONY AND THE ECSTASY. It is highly unlikely that Michelangelo had to paint any sections of the ceiling on his back. He did however, have to assume some rather uncomfortable craning postures for hours at a time. It's also evident that the artist didn't work alone on the project. He would hire assistants as the need arose. He definitely didn't mix his own pigments, for instance, a time consuming, exact and laborious task in itself. This in no way diminishes just how Herculean an effort he exerted, however. The sheer physical toll the painting exacted on his body was quite real. His spirit was drained by the enterprise. It was, after all, not a project he was eager to pursue. Had it not been for the overbearing will of Julius II, he would have turned the opportunity down and concentrated instead on sculpture, his first love. <br />This is a book I recommend without reservation and it goes to the top of my current list of reading suggestions. It's relatively brief at just over 200 pages and will keep anyone with even the slightest appreciation of art and of genius riveted.<br />BEK	2004-01-08
US	50747141	R3O32HGDHMATDX	0940322153	135715379	A High Wind in Jamaica	Books	3	25	54	N	Y	Stalls at Sea	I came to this book with high expectations. It is not only listed amongst the top 100 novels of the 20th c. by the Modern Library, but is also mentioned by Anthony Burgess on his own top 100 novels list. One Amazon reviewer whose literary tastes I admire also heaped praise on it.<br />About all I can say positively for it is that it's an easy read and flows by rather swiftly. My main quibble is with Hughes' overly febrile imagination. It definitely gets the better of him after the children are pirated away off the Cuban coast. Hughes' depiction of Emily's sexual awakening borders on the disquieting. She's only ten years old, after all. The even yonger Rachel has her upturned bottom smilingly explored by the pirate captain while she is sleeping in a scene closer to De Sade than to Golding. Such scenes are passed off as innocent encounters, yet the underlying tension is not so easily dismissed. Freudians would no doubt have a field day with this novel.<br />I enjoy dark satire and psychological exploration in novels. I suppose one can approach the novel from that perspective, but I can only say I've seen it done much more adroitly than Hughes manages here. He depicts the psychology, without any motivation behind it. That is a fatal flaw for a writer. The overly eccentric children's behavior is entirely enigmatic and uncontrolled, which reflects a rather Hobbsian or Calvinist world view. These are definitely not Rousseau's noble savages prancing about the yardarms. They are feral little time bombs, wreaking bloodshed and misery on the adults who intend them no harm. In that sense, they are indeed like Golding's barbaric little band of boys. They have no internal moral compass, no code of behavior, save what is expedient for them.<br />Even that wouldn't be so bad, if the satire were fleshed out with a bit more more humor, a la Swift. Though some readers found humor in the novel, I just couldn't fathom where. At its core, it's one of the most cynical works I've ever read. It's the novelistic equivalent of reading Juvenal or Rochester, sans the great wit that underscored their satirical poems. Suffice it to say that I won't be including it on my personal list of 100 top novels of the 20th c.<br />BEKread. It's the novelistic equivalent of reading Juvenal or Rochester, sans the great wit that underscored their satirical poems. Suffice it to say that I won't be including it on my personal list of 100 top novels of the 20th c.<br />BEK	2004-01-07
US	50747141	R9BX7JN7N8N8A	1413406114	444977471	Walk-On	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A Rousing Read	If you were to combine a Stephen King plot and narrative (when King was still going strong) with a Dan Jenkins/John Feinstein insight into the behind-the-scenes world of sports, you may get some idea of what Mikels has accomplished here. The author has found his footing in this second novel. His terra firma is college football, in particular the perrenial powerhouse, University of Oklahoma. The author clearly has done his homework and has a thorough knowledge of what goes on in a major Big Ten program.<br />  One needn't be a college football enthusiast to appreciate the book, however. The fast paced narrative will keep any reader turning the pages at breakneck speed to find out what happens to Justin Chastain (the protagonist) as he fullfills his uncle's dreams of starring on the gridiron. A certain amount of willing suspension of disbelief is required on the part of the reader, but no more so than with any other book that delves into the supernatural. Just go with it, and you will be amply rewarded. The plot elements are supported by some excellent character development and by the fascinating insights Mikels provides into exactly what goes into developing a top ranked University sports program these days.<br />  I can easily envision this book ending up on a best seller list. The core readership will no doubt start in the author's home state (Oklahoma), but I trust that the readership will widen and branch out as word of mouth kicks in and the book gets the exposure it deserves.<br />BEK	2004-01-06
US	50747141	RANJO4NINL8VH	0253212340	275227239	Riddley Walker, Expanded Edition	Books	5	178	189	N	Y	Redefines the Very Concept of Reading	Aside from The Lord of the Rings, Hoban's Riddley Walker is the most imaginative piece of fiction I've ever read. This is a novel to savor, to prolong, if possible, to pore over, to backtrack upon, to celebrate.<br /> Do not be put off by the post-apocalyptic plot description. This is not your father's Neville Schute story. Nor is it Stephen King. This is a multi-layered, cosmic, end of days tale, that far transcends all other entries in &quot;the genre.&quot; Hoban has been compared to Joyce, but don't be put off by that either, if you struggled through Finnegan's Wake, as most do. This is accessible. Highly so. Sure, you have to invest some effort and if you are the type of reader who has to have everything conveyed immediately to you, you will not enjoy this work. Hoban is essentially playing a game with his reader. If you enjoy riddles (&quot;Walker is my name and I am the same. Riddley Walker. Walking my riddles where ever theyve took me and walking them now on this paper the same.&quot;), Hoban will definitely keep you guessing. This is probably modern fiction's most &quot;interactive&quot; novel. The progressive revelations clue you in as you &quot;walk&quot; with Riddley through Inland (England). The path is so devious, yet so honest, at the same time, that you never want Riddley to seperate from you (a motif in the work) and you never want to lose his companionship.<br />Suffice it to say that I've been so obsessed over this book that I have joined a Hoban fan club and I can't wait to read more from this astounding author. If you can read updated Chaucer, you should have no difficulty grasping Riddley's vernacular, though there are some similarities to earlier English speech. Allow at least three chapters to get into the cadence and the inner logic of the &quot;Riddley Speak.&quot;<br /> The only slight quibble I have, is that I wish that Hoban had written more dialogue, and a bit less first person narrative. I say this because the dialogue is the most hilarious I have read in recent memory. The Punch show interchanges are particularly amusing. They were droll enough to also make me take a whole new interest in traditional Punch and Judy Shows. These are confined primarily to the British Isles, these days, which is sad. I did learn, from one of the foremost practitioners of the tradition, that the book is very much appreciated on the part of the community that still take their get ups from venue to venue. I also would have to say that readers who may be computer programmers, IT professionals, etc., will take a particular delight in the way that Hoban works in computer language of our era into his central character's (and his culture's) partial understanding.<br />If you are looking for something that has Pythonesque, Pynchonesque, but ultimately Riddleyesque elements, and will leave you feeling as though your brain has actually been through some mental gymnastics, but isn't sweating...order this volume, immediately.<br />BEKilarious I have read in recent memory. The Punch show interchanges are particularly amusing. They were droll enough to also make me take a whole new interest in traditional Punch and Judy Shows. These are confined primarily to the British Isles, these days, which is sad. I did learn, from one of the foremost practitioners of the tradition, that the book is very much appreciated on the part of the community that still take their get ups from venue to venue. I also would have to say that readers who may be computer programmers, IT professionals, etc., will take a particular delight in the way that Hoban works in computer language of our era into his central character's (and his culture's) partial understanding. <br />If you are looking for something that has Pythonesque, Pynchonesque, but ultimately Riddleyesque elements, and will leave you feeling as though your brain has actually been through some mental gymnastics, but isn't sweating...order this volume, immediately.<BR>BEK	2003-09-28
US	50747141	R2A3A8Y9W2MDVZ	0802139590	179693822	Gould's Book of Fish	Books	5	37	38	N	Y	My Selection of the Year, So Far	In the reviews that are printed in the Grove Press Trade edition, I counted 22 renowned authors the critics cite with whom to compare Flanagan. The list is rather impressive and includes Joyce, Melville, Conrad, Rabelais, Borges, Hemingway, Marquez, Swift, Morrison, Pynchon, Sterne, Dante, Ovid, de Quincey, Heller, Dickens, Camus, Faulkner, Fielding, Smollet, Dostoevsky and, by inference, Peter Carey (the reference is to Carey's character, Ned Kelly in The True History of the Kelly Gang). Throw in a reference to Wuthering Heights (in terms of the book's lingering effect upon the reader's imagination) and you see the sort of playing field Flannagan is occupying. In terms of critical acclaim, the guy has arrived.<br />  The praise is justified. Great novels introduce us to fully realized worlds, which burst forth from singular imaginations. This is just such a work. As T.S. Elliot noted, great literature also connotes, contains and reexpresses the great literature of the past. As you can infer from the number of references cited, this book acomplishes that.<br />  Great works also contain great characters and William Buelow Gould, &quot;sloe-souled, green-eyed, gap-toothed, shaggy-haired &amp; grizzle-gutted&quot; is as large and expressive a character as has been penned in recent literature. He's witty, expansive, loveable, colorful and as dimensional as they come. He's unforgettable, as are several of the other characters in the novel, most notably the penitentiary surgeon, Mr. Lempriere, in his passionate quest to become another Linnaeus, fellow convict Capois Death, who represents the life-force irrepressible. Towering over them all is the most surreal Commandant, once himself a convict, who through luck and subterfuge has assumed the identity of a British officer who perished in a shipwreck off the coast of Tasmania. He is rescued and taken back to the nearby penal colony, where he again lucks out when the old Commandant dies and there is no one else to replace him. He ultimately assumes absolute power and control over every guard, soldier and inmate in the colony and proceeds to engage all these unfortunate inhabitants in fullfilling his grandiose schemes. To accentuate his god-like stature, he has a gold mask fashioned for him, behind which his old identity disappears. His history and his fate, becomes inextricably linked with Gould's.<br />  One word of warning, and it is the sort of warning that small children would be powerless to obey, but I know that I am writing to intelligent, mature readers here. Do not look at the final page of the book!! It will ruin the read for you, I assure you, and it is such a great read, you really don't want that to happen, do you? Remember the old adage about Curiosity and the fate of the cat!! Don't be led by your feline instincts!! Save the surprise for the right time! I know that I've just made that difficult for you, but it's just not worth it, I assure you! OK, now that that's settled, go get a copy of this treasure and prepare for a marvelous voyage.<br />BEKhim. He ultimately assumes absolute power and control over every guard, soldier and inmate in the colony and proceeds to engage all these unfortunate inhabitants in fullfilling his grandiose schemes. To accentuate his god-like stature, he has a gold mask fashioned for him, behind which his old identity disappears. His history and his fate, becomes inextricably linked with Gould's. <br />  One word of warning, and it is the sort of warning that small children would be powerless to obey, but I know that I am writing to intelligent, mature readers here. Do not look at the final page of the book!! It will ruin the read for you, I assure you, and it is such a great read, you really don't want that to happen, do you? Remember the old adage about Curiosity and the fate of the cat!! Don't be led by your feline instincts!! Save the surprise for the right time! I know that I've just made that difficult for you, but it's just not worth it, I assure you! OK, now that that's settled, go get a copy of this treasure and prepare for a marvelous voyage. <br />BEK	2003-09-04
US	50747141	R36XAGLWFGA95N	0140185399	972711653	A Burnt-Out Case (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	4	16	20	N	N	Greene's "Heart of Darkness"	There are many similarities between this novel and Conrad's masterly novella. The protagonist, Querry, like Marlowe, is making a voyage of discovery into the deepest interior of the \\"Dark Continent.\\" The voyage upriver is even described in  much the same manner, as the missionary boat wends its way into an ever more torpid, oppresive atmosphere.<br /> Green contrasts the colonial attitudes as represented by the figure of the greedy, exploitative Ryker, with the benevolent,if scattershod, efforts of Father Thomas and the priests and nuns of the leper colony. Though Ryker is far less megalomaniacal than Kurtz, and a lot less intelligent, he too is guided ny notions of entitlement and superiority. This mindset extends to his notions of marriage as well. His young wife has about as much status, in his eyes, as have the natives employed in the Palm Oil production plant he supervises.<br />Ryker also shares much in common with the hotel keeper, Schomberg, in Conrad's Victory. Both are of the \\"ugly European\\" variety, motivated by self interest and subject not to genuine passion, but to wounded vanity. Self pride and grandiose imaginings are all either man has. Querry, in A Burnt Out Case, and Heyst, in Victory, are precisely the opposite. These protagonists have essentially lost their identities. They travel to the ends of the earth in an attempt to discover what manner of men they actually are. Querry's end, like Heyst's is almost preordained, yet they do finally discover some semblance of truth about themselves.<br />Greene was not at all happy with the manner in which this book was interpreted by critics and by the public. He blames it and Heart of the Matter,  for his having been subsequently labeled a \\"Catholic\\" writer. In Ways of Escape, he writes that the book's publication resulted in an outflow of enthusiastic responses: \\" There must have been something corrupt there, for the book appealed too often to weak elements in its readers. Never had I received so many letters from strangers -- perhaps the majority of them from women and priests. At a stroke I found myself regarded as a Catholic author in England, Europe and America -- the last title to which I had ever aspired.\\" The novel continues, as does much of Greene's oevre, to attract criticism keyed into spiritual and religious themes. That obviously wasn't his intent, and I believe that he deserves a less \\"catholic\\" (in its dictionary and religious sense) reading by modern audiences. Though I prefer some of Greene's other works (personal favorites, The Comedians, The Power and the Glory), I recommend this as a highly readable, diverting novel, with enough psychological underpinnings to lend it depth.<br />BEKletters from strangers -- perhaps the majority of them from women and priests. At a stroke I found myself regarded as a Catholic author in England, Europe and America -- the last title to which I had ever aspired.\\" The novel continues, as does much of Greene's oevre, to attract criticism keyed into spiritual and religious themes. That obviously wasn't his intent, and I believe that he deserves a less \\"catholic\\" (in its dictionary and religious sense) reading by modern audiences. Though I prefer some of Greene's other works (personal favorites, The Comedians, The Power and the Glory), I recommend this as a highly readable, diverting novel, with enough psychological underpinnings to lend it depth. <br />BEK	2003-08-31
US	50747141	R1P60WX5SJ250N	0151006903	99041831	Baudolino	Books	3	103	128	N	Y	Punch Drunk Reader	I finally staggered to the end of this one after about 200  rounds spread out over four months. I couldn't take more pronlonged sparring. Eco has developed the old &quot;rope a dope&quot; technique into too fine a science. He just stands there in the corner, letting you wail away on him until you've utterly exhausted yourself. By the time the bout was finally over, I realized that all my efforts had been in vain. He was still standing and I was defeated, having expended all that energy for nothing.<br />  There was a time when I came away from an engagement with Eco feeling refreshed and fortified, grateful for the time I had invested in reading works such as NAME OF THE ROSE and FOUCAULT'S PENDULUM. Then came the journey down the literary vortex of torpor, THE ISLAND OF THE DAY BEFORE and now BAUDOLINO, and all I can say is &quot;Oh how the mighty have fallen!&quot;<br />I guess, in all fairness, Eco just raised his personal bar a bit too high with FOUCAULT'S PENDULUM. It is that rare commodity in literature, a hybrid combining pace and great story with enough philosophical digression thrown in to lend it heft.<br />  The problem with Eco's last two books can be traced to one serious defect. The narrators in both books are tiresome; but particularly Baudolino, a pompous, unfunny, self-centered bore. I'm sure that as Eco was modelling him, he had in mind some clever, roguish, humorous figure who just happened to be present at some of the more important historical events in late Byzantine history. The problem is, no literary creation this self-inflated can come across as anything other than someone one would prefer not to be around. He's a lousy reconteur. The stories he tells are generally of the shaggy dog variety. The characters he introduces are uninterseting. His little attempts at moralizing are tedious.<br />  At least you readers who decide to buy this book are luckier than I in one respect. You have the opportunity to buy the paperback version, whereas I shelled out the hardcover bucks, as I was so excited by the notion that this was going to be a return to form for former champion Eco. Unfortunately, it's about like watching Tyson fight these days. He &quot;used to be&quot; a contenda. 3 stars only because reading thrird rate Eco is still better than reading first rate John Grisham.<br />BEKshelled out the hardcover bucks, as I was so excited by the notion that this was going to be a return to form for former champion Eco. Unfortunately, it's about like watching Tyson fight these days. He &quot;used to be&quot; a contenda. 3 stars only because reading thrird rate Eco is still better than reading first rate John Grisham.<br />BEK	2003-07-04
US	50747141	R18C4A6OIWBE31	0802150594	732933939	Heart of a Dog	Books	5	49	50	N	Y	Great Soviet Era Satire	It's just something about those Russians. I guess because they've had to put up with so much turmoil, for so long, historically; or it could be those long Russian winters; but for whatever reason they have produced a steady stream of excellent satirists for the past two hundred years. Refer to Nikolai Leskov's LAUGHTER AND GRIEF, for a mid 19th century examination of the phenomenon from someone who first noticed it. Leskov's narrator, Vatahvskov, states in a conversation amongst his colleagues that the feature most singular in Russian society is &quot;its abundance of unpleasant surprises.&quot;<br />  Which brings me to Bulgakov and to HEART OF A DOG, for it is a novella  full of &quot;unpleasant surprises,&quot; both happening to and instigated by, Bulgakov's singular literary creation, Sharik (aka Mr. Sharik, aka Citizen Sharikov, aka Polygraph Polygraphovich Sharikov, commisar of cat control, etc.) Bulgakov takes an absurd situation (think of Gogol's &quot;nose&quot; wandering around the streets of St. Petersburg for comparison) and crafts it into a wonderful parody of the societal madhouse that was 30s Moscow under the party's intolerable decrees. His is a portrait of political correctness run amok. Citizen Shvonder, the representation of all things banal about the collectivist mentality of the era is the Bulgakov's primary target in this regard. His jealous rage at the fact that professor Phillipov is living the high life, while he and his ilk are sharing one room apartments, remains comically ineffectual. It was Bulgakov's way at getting back at all of the party appartchiks that were in fact causing him a great deal of consternation and physical hardship at the time.<br />  A reviewer who was critical of this work as being too much akin to a Chagall painting was drawing an accurate analogy. Yet, coming from a perspective in which magical realism has become an accepted literary technique, I don't consider that a drawback. It is part of the same Russian tradition. The fanciful and the grotesque have long been an integral part of Russian fiction. Bulgakov is simply one of its more famous and adept practitioners.<br />BEKtion. The fanciful and the grotesque have long been an integral part of Russian fiction. Bulgakov is simply one of its more famous and adept practitioners.<br />BEK	2003-05-25
US	50747141	R2MJY67LHW1GZ6	0140441417	925590424	Sentimental Education (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	31	38	N	Y	Should Be on Everyone's Top Ten List	To real Flaubertians, this novel ranks slightly above Madame Bovary. It's the true apogee of French and arguably, World Lit, at least so far as the novel is concerned. It's Flaubert's microcosmic/macrocosmic masterpiece.<br />In some ways, it's Flaubert's answer to Stendhal, given the fact it's a roman &agrave; clef, similar in scope and theme to Le Rouge et Noir and La Chartreuse de Parme. It's also a Bildungsroman, in the same Stendhalian, Goethian tradition. The young Frederic experiences love and warfare in much the same way as the young Julien Sorel does in Le Rouge. Readers will also be reminded of Marius in Hugo's Les Miserables (both authors use  Paris revolts  as central incidents). Both authors also witnessed the 1848 February uprising personally. Hugo, as a rather passionate defender of the Republic, incorporates his experience in describing an earlier, similar revolt in 1832. Flaubert as a dispassionate, even slightly amused, observer, describes the 1848 downfall of the monarchy from the point of view of his young protagonist. The manner in which the two authors incorporate the incidents of the revolution reflects on their personal styles and sensibilities (Hugo adhering to his romantic idealism, ready to mount the barricades -  Flaubert, the detached, acerbic, silent witness, standing aside making mental notes). Lovers of literature can appreciate the masterful manner in which both geniuses weave  historical incidents within the threads of their narratives. Lovers of irony will most likely prefer Flaubert's treatment.<br />  Flaubert was constantly striving for objectivity, and Sentimental Education is his most completely realized creation in that regard. It's one of the least heavy handed exercises in creative writing that any author has ever produced. The master's prose is faultless, brilliant, refined to its essence in every turn of phrase. All superfluity of expression has been discarded. The reader is left with a highly faceted, exquisite sapphire of a work. Lovers of literature from James to Gide to the present day have been overawed by its brilliance.<br />BEKof a work. Lovers of literature from James to Gide to the present day have been overawed by its brilliance.<br />BEK	2003-05-23
US	50747141	R26M3VWWLU16C0	0872862305	378902283	The Boy Who Set the Fire	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Pure Storytelling	Paul Bowles tape recorded Mrabet and other Moroccan storytellers back in the 50s, then edited and translated the tales to give to the Western reading public. The result is a large body of Arabic literature that would have pased into the void had it not been for his efforts.<br />  These stories alone would suffice to merit the eternal gratitude of literature and story lovers everywhere. It's impossible to fathom how an illiterate (Mrabet) could smoke a few bowls of kif and effortlessly spin forth such highly structured, intricate yarns &quot;off the top of his head,&quot; yet he and several other of his Moroccan compatriots could do just that. Luckily for posterity, a genius such as Bowles was there to act as amaneunsis.<br />  The title story alone is enough to warrant a purchase. It's an unforgettable account of a young Arab boy who falls victim to a band of vicious marauders. The revenge he exacts is truly diabolical.<br />  Readers who enjoy this collection will NO doubt want to investigate Bowles' collection of indiginous, Moroccan, kif-smoking, oral storytellers, HUNDRED CAMELS IN THE COURTYARD. It, too, is unforgettable. Just another piece of the fabric that went into the tapestry of genius that is Paul Bowles.	2003-05-23
US	50747141	R37A0PBIIZX42J	1893626229	887990849	You Are Going to Prison	Books	5	59	61	N	N	Should Be Required High School Reading	Forget MTV's Scared Straight. If you want to scare someone, no matter what age, into toeing the line and avoiding a prison sentence at all costs, make them read this book. I guarantee there is not a more forthright, realistic view of what goes on in the belly of the beast that is our prison system than can be found in the passages that comprise this excellent book.<br />  As a note of caution, much as I would have liked to use this as a text in my high school teaching days, I probably wouldn't have gotten it past my department heads, as it does depict very graphically what awaits the prison newbie as he (no focus on women's prison here) wends his way through the prison system. It's none too jolly, trust me. Hogshire definitely &quot;tells it like it is,&quot; and holds nothing back. HBO prison shows don't show the half of it. For the real, unadulterated deal, trust this author.<br />  Even if you're not planning on a prison junket anytime soon, I recommend this short book as a fascinating read. It may trun your head (or at least your stomach) about the continuing sorry state of affairs in our nation's prison system.<br />BEK	2003-05-20
US	50747141	RJHPUUT9EDVN2	0316779423	685145331	Barrel Fever: Stories and Essays	Books	3	30	56	N	N	Have to Side With the Mixed Bag Reviewers	To be brief, the stories included in this volume are insipid, contrived and humorless. A couple of the essays are keepers, particularly the SANTALAND DIARIES. If the rest of the book had measured up to that standard, I would say that the glowing reviews on the book's jacket were deserved. As it stands, I don't see how they could have been reading the same material, as 80% of the book is almost unreadable.<br />  The opening story, PARADE, is a good indicator of what is to follow. It purports to be about all the male celebrities that Sedaris has had sex with, including such disparate figures as E.G. Marshall and Bruce Springsteen. Is this supposed to pass as campy humor, or something? If so, I just don't get it. A later \\"story\\" about a newsletter from a homophobe, is equally banal, relying solely on some easily triggered reader reaction, rather than on actual cleverness or wit.<br />  THE SANTALAND DIARIES does merit praise. The blurb from the reviewer referring to Sedaris' mixture of pathos and humor definitely applies to this article. Sedaris vividly describes what it is like to work as an elf in a large NYC department store's mock North Pole. His depictions of the other elves and the various Santas are hilarious. He is equally adept at conveying the mob mentality of the parents who drag their children through a two hour line so that they can have Christmas pictures to send to friends and relatives. It's rather a distressing portrait.<br />  Though this is my sole exposure to Sedaris' writing, I'd have to say that his sister, Amy (STRANGERS WITH CANDY) has the more fully developed sense of humor. Now THAT'S a funny show!<br />BK	2003-05-16
US	50747141	RFVPFNYIHDXH6	0872861813	798370825	The  Lemon	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	A Bowles/Mrabet Classic	Paul Bowles discovered Mrabet when the latter was a young man living in Tangiers and the former was already an accomplished musician and writer. The elder Bowles took Mrabet under his wing and translated/edited several of his short stories and novels. THE LEMON is one of Mrabet's most sustainted narratives and one of his most accomplished works.<br /><br /> This is perhaps the most linear and \\"simple\\" novel I have read in my lifetime. It recounts the passage into manhood of a muslim youth thrust into the turbulence of a decadent society for which he has a limited appreciation and presepective, as he is only ten years old as the narrative begins, and about fourteen as the tale ends. His sole foundation of knowledge is what he has memorized of the Koran from a brief stint at a madras (or its Moroccan equivalent), as well as a few months under the supervision of a kindly French female teacher at a \\"Nazarene\\" school. So much for \\"formal\\" education. The boy's true education occurs after he flees home after having been struck by his father. Part of the charm of the story lies in the fact that it is told from the perspective of raw youth, uncluttered by any but the most essential matters (Where's he going to sleep at night? How will he find work?) As the incidents unfold, the young narrator fends for himself in one of the less savory neighborhoods of Tangiers. He finds lodging with an alcoholic longshoreman whom he despises (the Koran forbids alcohol), yet puts up with out of necessity. He also discovers the pleasures of women and kif. The former he can take or leave, the latter he seemingly can't do without.<br />  This short novel is composed primarily of lots of little incidents. Nothing of real moment occurs until the final chapter of the book, which will also provide the reader with an explanation of the book's title. Though not much happens, the narrative is nevertheless oddly compelling. Mrabet paints such a vivid picture of Abdeslam's world and provides such a clear insight into the young protagonist's simplistic psychology, plot is not really a factor. This is definitely not earth shattering fiction, just an expertly rendered, lucidly faceted, middle-eastern gem.<br />  Mrabet's volume of short stories, THE BOY WHO SET THE FIRE & OTHER STORIES, also translated and fine-tuned by Bowles is also highly recommended.<br />BEKinsight into the young protagonist's simplistic psychology, plot is not really a factor. This is definitely not earth shattering fiction, just an expertly rendered, lucidly faceted, middle-eastern gem. <br />  Mrabet's volume of short stories, THE BOY WHO SET THE FIRE & OTHER STORIES, also translated and fine-tuned by Bowles is also highly recommended. <br />BEK	2003-05-16
US	50747141	R2ST1S81LM5RXX	0375701907	635714194	Straight Man: A Novel	Books	5	130	140	N	N	If this Book Doesn't Make You Laugh...	..then, &quot;Jack..You Dead!<br />  I had thought until reading STRAIGHT MAN that the standard for humorous novels with academic settings had been set by James Hynes. Russo is even funnier. His comic timing is akin to the great comedians of stage and sceen, like the Marx Brothers, W.C. Fields, Moore &amp; Cooke, etc. Yet not only is the man funny, he can flat out write, as well.<br />  In STRAIGHT MAN, Russo performs a balancing act of surface playfulness combined with searing truths about life's missed opportunities and moments of quiet despair. Behind the one-liners and the buffoonery of Henry Devereux Jr.'s comic mask, exists an enigmatic, compassionate, troubled soul, whose personality disorder has been triggered by a single incident he shares with his mother when he is a young teen. His humorous guise is something he has created so as to safely retreat from the seperation anxiety that is his constant companion. To his friends and colleagues he is &quot;Hank,&quot; easy to dismiss or to to ridicule, or in two instances, to physically attack (OK, three, if you count the goose!). Russo does a very subtle and masterful job of slowly developing the interior Henry Devereux Jr., however, and by the novel's end, the reader has been granted the full revelation of character and the whole man stands naked (figuritavely speaking) before us.<br />  STRAIGHT MAN is definitely my recommendation of 2003, thus far. The funny bits are truly hysterical. The dramatic bits ring true to life. This certainly not just another humorous novel about Academia. It's as well written and well rounded as any novel I've read in recent years. I look forward with great anticipation to reading EMPIRE FALLS.	2003-05-07
US	50747141	R1OHIM4OCPKF8O	0936756616	295171597	Walking Through Clear Water in a Pool Painted Black (Native Agents)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Like a Lost Friend	I really identified with Cookie Mueller, the author of \\"Walking Through Clear Water.\\" We were born a few months apart, lived our lives travelling back and forth between coasts, probably attended events together in 60s era San Francisco, East Village, NY, etc. One thing for sure, after reading this book, I wish I had known her and feel like I did. She comes across as so alive and vibrant on the printed page, that when I learned in the \\"about the author\\" page at the end of the book that she had died of AIDS in 1989, I felt as though I had personally lost a friend.<br />  Do not let that depressing bit of information in any way dissuade you from reading her story, or to get the impression that this book is at all morbid or maudlin. This is one of the funniest accounts of life on the fringes of American culture I've read in many a moon. She has such an enagingly humorous conversational style, that even when she is describing truly horrifying scenes such as an attempted rape in the backwoods of Maryland, the effect owes more to Rabelais,  than to Peckinpah.<br />  Mueller reminds me a lot of a female version of Ken Kesey. Her prose moves along with the same sort of wild energy and the incidents she describes never get bogged down in needless detail. She has great writers' instincts. She sees life in the same tragi-comic vein as does Kesey, as well. Perhaps they both had run-ins with the same Cosmic Joker, at one time or other. Whatever the personal histories, they were certainly kindred souls, who had a look at the full spectrum of humanity and were able to get their impressions down on paper in thoroughly memorable ways.<br />  This is as easy and enjoyable a read as you are likely to come across. I'm by no means a fast reader, but was able to breeze through it in just a few hours. I can unreservedly say that I couldn't put it down, and I find that rare these days. Spend a few hours with Cookie Mueller. She'll probably make friends with you, too.<br />BEK	2003-04-15
US	50747141	R2AXIPDMZ0K9JF	0140863818	382004715	Green Mile audio 5: The Night Journey: The Green Mile, part 5 (Vol 5)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Class Act Narration	I've encountered this work in three different media: book, movie and audio tape. All three are excellent, but my favorite is the audio version, due to Frank Muller's excellence as narrator and story teller. He and George Guidall are the best in the business. Unfortunately Muller was involved in an automobile accident some time ago and is now incapacitated to the point he can no longer work.<br />The audiobook is an abridgement, true, and I normally don't go in for such, yet the editors did a good job here in winnowing down the text and leaving all the important elements of the book. I notice that there is now an unabridged version, recorded by the same narrator.<br /> The Green Mile is one of King's better efforts and deeper textually than his Shawshank Redemption (his other well-known prison tale). He really excells here in terms of characterization, which can be on the thin side (no Thinner pun intended) in some of his novels.<br />What really makes this audio experience special, though, is Muller. It's doubtful that he will be able to return to recording, which is a real shame. The Green Mile is one of the finest testaments to this great reader. Another recommendation I would urge upon listeners is his rendition of Cormac McCarthy's classic, All the Pretty Horses.	2003-03-20
US	50747141	R20PD7BYV4QDUU	0915828189	45208143	I Heard God Laughing: Renderings of Hafiz	Books	5	25	26	N	Y	Extremely Simple, Extremely Profound	On its surface this collection of simple wisdom would appear almost New-Agey in terms of its contents. The book is essentially just a series of messages sent from a &quot;seeker&quot; to a loved one. Yet there is much that lies beneath the surface and that is very, very genuine at play here. It is in fact the perfect antidote to the sort of fluff that passes for spiritual writing these days. These are messages addressed to the &quot;real&quot; selves that all of us harbour, to the godhead that dwells inside us. Divine light shines through the pages of this book. Forget the self help books for once and allow your mind and spirit to drink in the celestial essence that Hafiz, et al impart. For a real journey of the spirit, take this book along with you to someplace peaceful and quiet and let yourself travel.<br />BEK	2003-03-01
US	50747141	RDKW5RSS30LVP	1570421048	58848637	The Celestine Prophecy: An Adventure	Books	5	113	197	N	N	Belongs in Everyone's Humor Collection	As far as unintentinal hoots go, this is by far my favorite. The blurb writer above describes Jesse Conti's delivery perfectly: &quot; He reads in hushed, anticipatory tones, almost whispering the secrets of the prophesies.&quot; What could be richer? He appears to naively believe that he is imparting some sort of actual wisdom, or is unravelling the mysteries of The Dead Sea Scrolls. All he is doing, in reality is sounding incredibly inept.<br />There is no wisdom to be imparted here, soul fans! Not even the slightest intimation of an original concept. Regurgitated 60s mantra music, from the newly annointed guru of pop spiritualism. Redfield makes Richard Bach look positively profound, by comparison.<br />  If you want to find true spirituality between the bindings of a book, pick up the Bible, The Koran, The Bagghavad Ghita, The Upanishads, Siddhartha, Kalhil Gibran, C.S. Lewis, etc. If you want a good belly-laugh, order this tape.<br />BEK	2003-03-01
US	50747141	R3H57KYRRUDQ4S	0393321177	294087031	Losing Nelson (Norton Paperback Fiction)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Cannon Flashes of Brilliance	Barry Unsworth is an exceptionally talented novelist and this work succeeds on many levels. He has an unswerving eye for detail, provides rich characterization, masterful manipulation of plot, and supplies plenty of meat and marrow in terms of levels of meaning. He also is adept at varying the pace of his narrative, shifting his delivery from the rather langorous story-line involving the troubled main character, Charles Cleasby, to the fast-paced passages covering Admiral Nelson's siege of Naples.<br />  The only drawback is that the parallel plot device has become something of a cliche in recent fiction and cinema. Two ready examples are Michael Cunningham's &lt;The Hours> and Charles Sturridge's adaptation of Dana Sobel's &lt;Longitude>. When one end of the scale outweighs the other, things get out of balance. The feat requires careful measurements. In Unsworth's case, the Nelson chapters are just a great deal more interesting than those devoted to the intentionally mundane machinations of the mentally unstable Cleasby and his female ameneunsis, Miss Lilly. It's difficult for a reader to care about this particularly unsympathetic main character. There is rather a whiney quality to his musings that makes him  unpleasant to be around. I grant that this is part of Unsworth's intent. NO one enjoys being in the company of neurotics for any length of time, but still. That Cleasby comes to terms with his past later in the novel is not enough to counteract the fact that he is an anal compulsive bore, when it comes right down to it.<br />This book, despite these shortcomings, is well worth a read, as there's no disputing that Unsworth is a capable novelist with a true sense of style. Though the Cleasby plot-line sags, Lord Nelson comes to the rescue, though his visage is marred by a few warts we might have overlooked in previous portraits. I recommend this book and look forward very much to reading the same author's Booker Prize Winning 1992 novel of the slave trade, &lt;Sacred Hunger>.<br />BEKunger>.<br />BEK	2003-02-25
US	50747141	R84MRWA1WAHCP	0375705457	931553433	Camp Concentration: A Novel	Books	4	11	16	N	Y	Big Ambitions, Partly Achieved	It's evident that Disch set out with the goal in mind of writing a more \\"literary\\" sort of science fiction novel than was or is prevalent in the genre. He gets about 4/5s of the way there, actually.<br /><br />Disch's verbal abilities and his mental dexterity are commendable, and are well displayed here. He is less successful at constructing plot intricacies, character development, and dramatic structure. Though it ties in with the plot, Disch's Pynchonesque linguistic display, which reaches a crescendo in the early part of Book Two, come off as the product of a young writer having fun with a highlighter and an unabridged OED.<br />  It's interesting that this novel was published about half a year after Daniel Keyes came out with a very similar book &lt;Flowers for Algernon,> later adapted into a play and then a movie &lt;Charly>. The idea had been around since Keyes first wrote the novella version in 1959. The idea is basically the same. Scientists come up with a formula that makes brain processes accelerate, the subjects become brilliant for a while and then the unforeseen consequences set in. Charly returns to his mentally retarded state, Sacchetti lapses into the final stages of a degenerative disease (syphilis).<br />Disch does introduce some interesting ideas along the way, however. The effect of syphilis, in particular,on the artistic mind, has long been a subject of conjecture. Though some arguments are a lot shakier (Beethoven) than others (de Mauppassant, Nietszche), the subject is definitely open to debate. Disch works such speculation into his story quite effectively. There is also the matter of the way in which the agent (The Palladine) is spread through the surface population (by sexual means) by a rebellious researcher. It does rather spookily prefigure the coming aids epidemic, and probably had some influence on later novelists such as Crichton and King.<br />There is enough talent, brains and imagination on display here to appeal to \\"general\\" readers as well as Sci-Fi aficionados. It's at times intentionally obfuscating, but that's confined to a relatively brief section as the narrator undergoes a mental breakdown. The rest is highly readable. I will definitely seek out more works by the author.well as Sci-Fi aficionados. It's at times intentionally obfuscating, but that's confined to a relatively brief section as the narrator undergoes a mental breakdown. The rest is highly readable. I will definitely seek out more works by the author.	2003-02-23
US	50747141	R2POMUEEGALOVW	0810934469	102180084	History of Art, 6th Edition	Books	5	29	33	N	N	All You Need to Know About Art History in One Volume	Anyone who has taken an Art Survey or Art History course at a major university will no doubt already be familiar with this monumental and venerable book. It's long been the standard reference, for good reason. It doesn't merely take a few paintings or pieces of sculpture from a particular cultural period and overload the reader with needless minutiae. Janson's (father's and son's) text merely presents the relevant info that provides for a clear understanding of the progress and trends in areas ranging from visual arts (painting and sculpture) to architecture.<br />  The prints in the new edition are more vivid and outstanding than ever. The helpful timelines and diagrams have been updated, to great effect. The sections on Oriental and Sub-Contintent art , that was just a postscript in earlier editions have been expanded significantly. The emphasis is still on Western art and architecture, but the editors are making strides. As the Amazon blurb-writer notes, some attempts have been made to include more female artists besides Mary Cassatt and Georgia O'Keefe. The recent revival of interest in women artists such as Frida Khalo and Artemisia Gentileschi will no doubt have an impact on the next revision.<br />  This book would make a perfect gift for the budding artist in your household. It would also be a useful and important source of information if you are planning a trip to Europe. There is a reason they call it \\"Art Appreciation.\\" The more background you have, the more \\"appreciative\\" you are of what is involved in the creation of a great canvas or a Gothic cathedral. If you believe that the contemplation of great works of art is a rewarding and enriching endeavor, then I highly suggest you make the investment and let the Jansons be your guides. For more background on Renaissance artists, in particular, I would also recommend Vasari's Lives of the Artists and Benvenuto Cellini's highly enjoyable autobiography.<br />BEK	2003-02-19
US	50747141	R1KWZQ2UKEAPHF	1573226254	864394102	Woe Is I: The Grammarphobe's Guide to Better English in Plain English	Books	5	82	89	N	N	Where Opposites Converge	Grammar and fun. How odd those two words look in such close proximity to each other. Granted, Fowler can be amusing at times, particularly when he's in full peevish mode and attired in full curmudgeonly armor. Mencken certainly summons up a fairly regular chuckle, when dealing with topics related to English/American usage.<br />  But if you're like me, you tend to gloss over those exceptions and hearken back to 9th and 10th grade English classes, featuring Messrs. Strunk & White, supplemented by the latest book of torture published by McGraw Hill, with an exercise book on top of that. Ugh!<br />  I wish now that Ms. O'Conner's witty, 227 pg. text had been available at that time and that I would have had English teachers enlightened enough to use it, even if only as a supplement.<br /> \\"Woe is I\\" is a pleasure to read. She accomplishes that rare deed of sallying forth against the convulsive, recalcitrant, obfuscating, hydra-headed monster that is English Grammar and actually coming out of the battle victorious.<br />  She accomplishes this through sheer force of wit. This is not your typical handbook of style, as you might glean from reading over the sample pages. That will give you an idea of the charm and humor that Ms. O'Conner brings to bear on various grammatical bugaboos. Some of my favorite examples: \\"Back to the drawing board. 'Back to Roget's Thesaurus.'\\"  \\"Agree to disagree. 'People never really agree to disagree. They just get tired of arguing.'\\"  \\"Bite the bullet. 'Save your teeth.'\\"<br />  This book is helpful, no matter what your level of English proficiency. I recommend it to students, writers, lovers of language, Reference book junkies, word-freaks, ESL teachers, English teachers, teachers in other disciplines who need help in grading papers or to anyone else who wants to brush up his/her grammar.<br />BEK	2003-02-15
US	50747141	R28C7MI4XRIS4C	1580084168	646098066	Afghanistan: A Russian Soldier's Story	Books	5	20	21	N	N	The Universal Soldier	This book is many things, part autobiography, part war journal, and part photojournalism. All its components are equally interesting and poignant. The reader is introduced to a young, naive lad from St Petersburg (Leningrad at that time) who is thrust suddenly from the safe and familiar confines of home to the strange and surreal landscape of war-torn Afghanistan. It is a universal story, told many times in many other accounts, on too many occasions. In all wars, innocence is lost, young soldiers age way too suddenly; one's fundamental way of looking upon the world is inalterably changed.<br /> What distinguishes this book for me particularly is the masterful way Tamarov combines words and photography. Both have a timeless quality to them. The black and white images appear as if they could have been taken in any decade from the 1920's to the present. Most are of Tamarov's Russian compatriots, his fellow soldiers, appearing for the most part drained and curiously detached, as if they had all willed themselves elsewhere, anywhere but the hell they presently occupied. Afghanistan itself is depicted as if in a permanent time warp, eternally unalterable, no matter how many foreign hoards pass through its domain. The accompanying text could also have been written in any decade, describing the soldier's lot at Verdun, at Normandy, and perhaps most especially at Khe Sahn.<br />  Tamarov makes many relevant parallels between the Russian experience in Afghanistan and America's in Vietnam. What is especially tragic is the reception the young soldiers of both wars experienced when they returned home. Unlike the conquering heroes of previous wars, welcomed back with parades and accolades, these young men were met with indifference and even resentment when they got back. Tamarov's account of his meetings with Vietnam vets and their subsequent bonding is one of the really uplifting, yet emotionally charged aspects of the book. The passage in which he recounts visiting the Vietnam War memorial in Washington, DC, is particularly effective.<br />  Vladislav Tamarov, former minesweeper in one of the century's most fruitless and futile military excursions, has rendered an eyewitness account that is extremely relevant at this juncture in world history. Conflicts persist. Politicians continue their saber rattling, whether  in Pakistan-India, China-Taiwan, Iraq-US, North Korea-US, Afghanistan, Chechnya. Perhaps it's once again time to consider what war actually does to the young people we send into battle, before we so cavalierly decide to do so again.<br />BKm War memorial in Washington, DC, is particularly effective. <br />  Vladislav Tamarov, former minesweeper in one of the century's most fruitless and futile military excursions, has rendered an eyewitness account that is extremely relevant at this juncture in world history. Conflicts persist. Politicians continue their saber rattling, whether  in Pakistan-India, China-Taiwan, Iraq-US, North Korea-US, Afghanistan, Chechnya. Perhaps it's once again time to consider what war actually does to the young people we send into battle, before we so cavalierly decide to do so again.<br />BK	2003-01-15
US	50747141	R27FNSH76EW6LH	B00005VS8D	212638982	Elvis	Books	4	29	38	N	N	True Believers Hate this Book	And you will too if you are among his legions of die-hard fans. This is definitely the most controversial (and I do mean HOTLY debated) Elvis bio. Goldman may indeed not be the most objective reporter out there (his bio of John Lennon came under massive attack as well). I found this book fascinating, however. It certainly focuses on Elvis' less memorable moments. We see Elvis shooting up combinations of drugs before going on stage at the MGM Grand. Elvis forgetting lyrics midway through a song. The infamous incident of Elvis shooting his television. Fat Elvis sweating profusely.<br /><br />  Elvis comes across half decently, however when compared to two figures that Goldman particularly targets. He depicts the Colonel as a rapacious, blood-sucking force of palpable evil, bent solely on drawing every last drop of lucre out of the Elvis machine. He single handedly thwarted Elvis' attempts at creativity, keeping the King focused solely on music that will be the most commercially palpable. The other great Villain is Dr. Nick, whom the author hints was actually responsible for Elvis' final inglorious demise on a toilet seat in his Graceland bathroom.<br />  If you want to preserve your memory of Elvis as the leather-clad, vibrant performer of the Elvis Comeback Special, then I'd suggest this book is not for you. If you are curious about the more lurid details of an American icon's private life and the eclipse of an undeniably talented entertainer, give Goldman's book a try.	2002-12-09
US	50747141	RWVSSXGICISA1	0060938455	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	4	3	7	N	N	Provocative Muckraking	The food chain is not what it used to be. More and more centralized and autonomous conglomerates have supplanted local food production and butcher shops. Well paid workers, ranchers and farmers have been replaced by mega-harvesters and food processors and by minimum wage, unskilled workers.<br />  Most of us are at least dimly aware of these changes, but Eric Schlosser provides the sordid, often gruesome, details.<br />  In this carefully researched and informative jeremiad, Schlosser leads us directly to the villain's doorsteps. His targets are sometimes highly visible (ubiquitous fast food chains, especially) but often off the radar screen, (manufacturers of chemical taste substitutes, french fry suppliers, congressmen and lobbyists).<br />  The main thrust of his argument is that the less localized the source of our food, the greater the risk of harmful exposure to e-coli, salmonella and other bacterial pathogens. Bacterial outbreaks are not often discovered until they have become widespread. Most damning of all, the companies that are responsible for the outbreaks often drag their heels in releasing information and are under no legal compunction to do so. Government agencies such as the FDA, the FTC and OSHA are hindered by, and in some cases controlled by, the industries they are supposed to monitor.<br />  Schlosser's battle plan calls for public pressure upon our government to effect changes in labor practices, safety standards (both in terms of worker safety and sanitary standards), and quality of workplace. The food industry, left to its own devices, has shown no historical willingness to make improvements on its own. The food industry's proposed solution to bacterial contamination is irradiation. Addressing the source of the problem (assembly lines in meat packing houses move too quickly to be accurately monitored and lead to worker accidents) would cut into the bottom line profits of the corporations.<br />  Schlosser proceeds in his inquisition in a measured manner for the most part. The one exception might be when he takes us into the depths of a slaughterhouse &quot;somewhere in the high plains.&quot; I can appreciate that the scene he witnessed and which he describes is genuinely horrific, but his tone shifts from  reportorial/objective to horror novelist/sensational. Though it is not a major mark against his credibility, I did take the book down one star for that chapter.<br />  I do hope that the book performs its purpose and that Schlosser's clarion call will be heeded by the powers that be in government. Of course, that will happen only if his readers tell their friends and at least organize some e-mail campaigns to let their local congressmen/women know that they are concerned about the quality and safety of what they and their children put in their stomachs.a measured manner for the most part. The one exception might be when he takes us into the depths of a slaughterhouse &quot;somewhere in the high plains.&quot; I can appreciate that the scene he witnessed and which he describes is genuinely horrific, but his tone shifts from  reportorial/objective to horror novelist/sensational. Though it is not a major mark against his credibility, I did take the book down one star for that chapter.<br />  I do hope that the book performs its purpose and that Schlosser's clarion call will be heeded by the powers that be in government. Of course, that will happen only if his readers tell their friends and at least organize some e-mail campaigns to let their local congressmen/women know that they are concerned about the quality and safety of what they and their children put in their stomachs.	2002-12-02
US	50747141	R1NNV3D7HWML63	0140441824	961689350	Procopius: The Secret History (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	53	61	N	N	The Kitty Kelly of Byzantium	OK, so maybe that's an exaggeration. Procopius' penchant for dishing out the dirt is one of the reasons, however, that this is probably the most \\"readable\\" of Byzantine texts for modern audiences. He absolutely skewers Theodora, recounting her rise from child prostitute, circus performer and all-around besotted, depraved, licentious harlot to Empress of the Roman Empire. This is the primary reason this is the SECRET history, else Procopius would have ended up like Boethius.<br />  Though Theodora was Procopius's primary target for vitriol, none of the personages who graced Justinian's court come off smelling so great. Justinian's most celebrated general, Belisarius (whom Procopius accompanied in several campaigns), comes across as kind of a good natured boob, whom Theodora easily tricks. Justinian himself is nowhere near the paragon Procopius depicted him as in his \\"official\\" history. When Justinian isn't scheming or engaged in petty retributions, he is basically passive, letting his wife run the show.<br />  However interesting numerous passages are throughout the Secret History (P's recounting of the Plague that wiped out most of Constantinople in 542 AD, for instance), what it boils down to are the juicy parts. Who can say how many Latin scholars through the ages have turned to Procopius when they felt the need for a little titillation? Though the shock value has definitely diminished as far as our \\"modern\\" sensibilities are concerned, it's still some pretty heady stuff. I mean, Theodora makes Catherine the Great look like Mother Theresa, by comparison.<br />  Yes, Procopius' official histories (eight books on military campaigns and five books on architecture) are perhaps of more merit to Byzantine scholars. In terms of enjoyable reading, however, this is definitely the place to start.<br />BK	2002-11-29
US	50747141	R3J1C9NJTOX4CC	0486287424	469019091	Confessions of an English Opium Eater (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	3	32	39	N	N	For Verbiage Junkies Only	Thomas De Quincey was a contemporary of Wordsworth and more importantly in terms of comparison, Coleridge. He writes that Coleridge and he met several times and in one instance they perused some Parnesi prints together. Whether on not they were both high at the time, De Quincey doesn't reveal. However, given the tenor of the tangent upon which De Quincey expounds, it is certain that at least he was using, and given Coleridge's history, he probably was a well. Why do I cite this incident? Because it is one of the few points in the narrative that is memorable. As someone interested in literary figures, the image of two 19th century literary hop-heads grooving-out whilst staring at Parnesi prints (you should look up Parnesi on the web - a definite precursor to M.C. Escher)is just plain marvelous.<br />  Unfortunately, that, and a few paragraphs depicting some truly macabre nightmares are the only noteworthy incidents in this book. Too often, De Quicey's labarynthine riffs doen't really lead anywhere. His writing style in some ways can be compared to another of his more illustrious contemporaries, Thomas Carlyle's. Both go in for elongated Latinate constructions, with modifier upon modifier and dependent and independent clauses ad infinitum. Carlyle, however, can pull it off. His great wit and energy of mind holds the center of the thought together, even as the rest of his sentence veers off into Baroque space. De Quincey is not an adept enough magician to perform this trick.<br /><br />  De Quincey's subject is himself. His mode of writing in this instance is primarily that of a diarist. This leads to comparisons with some other English diarists of note. Two that come immediately to mind are Defoe (A Journal of the Plague Year) and Pepys (the most famous of all). De Quincey doesn't hold up well in comparision. Defoe's journal is interesting because his subject matter is compelling, he's a great journalist (conveying to our mind's eye the events he depicts), and he gets to the point. Pepys is wonderful because he provides us a full panorama of life in London in the latter half of the 17th century. De Quincey is so absorbed in his solipsistic self-examination, that we as readers aren't even allowed to come up for air, much less see anything around us. That would even be permissable if the narrator were like Proust's Swann, who is at least likeable and self-effacing. Not so De Quincey. He interupts his own narrative on countless occasions to tell us what a splendid scholar he is and (to borrow a phrase from Ophelia) &quot;what a great mind is here o'erthrown.&quot; He peppers the text with words like &quot;heautontimoroumenos&quot; to indicate that he is learned in Greek. Throughout the narrative, he is in way to big a hurry to impress these points upon the reader, instead of allowing the reader to judge for him/herself.<br />If you want to know what it's like to be a junkie, read Burroughs. If you want to read some painfully constructed English prose, give this one a go.<br />BKto the point. Pepys is wonderful because he provides us a full panorama of life in London in the latter half of the 17th century. De Quincey is so absorbed in his solipsistic self-examination, that we as readers aren't even allowed to come up for air, much less see anything around us. That would even be permissable if the narrator were like Proust's Swann, who is at least likeable and self-effacing. Not so De Quincey. He interupts his own narrative on countless occasions to tell us what a splendid scholar he is and (to borrow a phrase from Ophelia) &quot;what a great mind is here o'erthrown.&quot; He peppers the text with words like &quot;heautontimoroumenos&quot; to indicate that he is learned in Greek. Throughout the narrative, he is in way to big a hurry to impress these points upon the reader, instead of allowing the reader to judge for him/herself.<br />If you want to know what it's like to be a junkie, read Burroughs. If you want to read some painfully constructed English prose, give this one a go.<BR>BK	2002-11-29
US	50747141	R1S6JU68YO1A0I	0679732764	691093854	Invisible Man	Books	5	167	188	N	N	A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius	Ellison, Baldwin and Wright formed the triumvirate of great African American male novelists of the past 200 years. Of the three, Ellison may well prove to be the most timeless. While Native Son, Black Boy and Go Tell it on a Mountain are powerful works, they don't quite measure up to Invisible Man, in terms of sheer literary genius.<br /> While Ellison wears his influences on his sleeve (Dostoevsky, symbolist poets, existentialist writers, etc.[he even borrows his title from HG Wells]), his writing never suffers or sinks beneath the weight of literary associations. His was a unique voice and vision.<br /> Like Dostoevsky's Underground Man, Ellison's narrator has essentially beat a retreat from the world. He holes up in a subterranean room, where he reflects on the the injustices society has dealt him. Dostoevsky's narrator purposely bumps into people on the Nevsky Prospect in order to certify that he is visible and just as important as the next man. Ellison's Invisible Man beats and almost kills a white man he confronts on an empty street, also in order to rationalize his own existence.<br /> Both the underground man and the invisible man are filled with self loathing. Yet, in Ellison's work, the narrator does achieve a sort of spiritual progress and affirmative self-knowledge. He goes from being a pathetically exploited non-being that must acceed to the whims and wishes of the white opressor (the often anthologized battle royal scene at the beginning of the book), to a point near the conclusion of the book in which he can state he is free to pursue \\"infinite possibilities.\\"<br /> Irving Howe, in an overall favorable review of the novel, took Ellison to task on several fronts. He complained that the section wherein the narrator falls in with \\"The Brotherhood\\" portrays the communist party in an an unrealistic vein. He was also troubled by Ellison's narrative design: \\"Because the book is written in the first person singular, Ellison cannot establish ironic distance between his hero and himself, or between the matured \\"I\\" telling the story and the \\"I\\" who is its victim. And because the experience is so apocalyptic and magnified, it absorbs and then dissolves the hero; every minor character comes through brilliantly, but the seeing \\"I\\" is seldom seen.\\" Though I generally have a high opinion of Irving Howe's criticism, I think he's arriving at a conclusion here which entirely deflates his own remarks. Yes, the \\"I\\" in Invisible Man is harder to see than the other characters, but that is part of the author's construct. It's the very point he makes over and over throughout the novel. How better to portray an \\"invisible man?\\"<br /> If you've never read this important work, try reading the first 40 pages that are on display here at .... It includes the famous battle royal sequence, which is one of the best hook chapters in all of literature. It should be enough to induce you to read the rest of the novel. You are in for an unforgettable read.e between his hero and himself, or between the matured \\"I\\" telling the story and the \\"I\\" who is its victim. And because the experience is so apocalyptic and magnified, it absorbs and then dissolves the hero; every minor character comes through brilliantly, but the seeing \\"I\\" is seldom seen.\\" Though I generally have a high opinion of Irving Howe's criticism, I think he's arriving at a conclusion here which entirely deflates his own remarks. Yes, the \\"I\\" in Invisible Man is harder to see than the other characters, but that is part of the author's construct. It's the very point he makes over and over throughout the novel. How better to portray an \\"invisible man?\\" <br /> If you've never read this important work, try reading the first 40 pages that are on display here at .... It includes the famous battle royal sequence, which is one of the best hook chapters in all of literature. It should be enough to induce you to read the rest of the novel. You are in for an unforgettable read.	2002-08-01
US	50747141	R1J4WM45GC5FVB	0195050800	78582851	1-VI: A Study of History, Vol. 1: Abridgement of Volumes I-VI	Books	4	63	78	N	N	4 Stars Only Because of Abridgment	I don't normally go after other reviewers, but the dolts submitting their thoughts about this author are uninformed in the extreme. If ever there were a &quot;desert island&quot; author and a book that I would want to have with me on said island it is this one (though not the abridged version). Toynbee is a true polymath and one of the progenitors of Jacob Burckhardt, Daniel J. Boorstin, Jacques Barzun, et al. He delivers in concise, exquisitely rendered prose, an overview of western culture that has never been matched in terms of scope and economy - two terms that are not always congruous. For insights into the development of western civilization, its driving forces, main events, greatest influences, etc. , one need look no further than Toynbee. To compare it to Wells' work is to compare persimmons to oranges. One leaves a slightly bitter, puckery taste, the other slakes one's thirst.	2002-07-30
US	50747141	RDLHQYGQ5ETHA	0375724672	96071634	True History of the Kelly Gang: A Novel	Books	5	17	20	N	N	Part Twain, part McCarthy	If one were to combine the narrative vernacular genius of Twain and combine it with the offbeat storytelling qualities of Cormac McCarthy, one might well come up with a synthesis approximating Peter Carey. In this prize winning installment from one of Australia's premier writers, Carey presents a tale that is every bit as authentic and poignant as director Arthur Penn's American cinema classic, \\"Bonnie and Clyde.\\" Indeed there are many parallels between the duo that Penn portrays and the Kelly gang. Both are anti-authoritarian, populist heroes who take on a corrupt, unfair establishment and react in a series of acts that escalate in degree of violence. Both the Kelly and the Barrow gang are portrayed as basically good, who are driven to acts of increasing hostility not so much by their inner nature as by societal injustice. The Barrows are harbingers of the depression, the Kelly gang are the malignant outcrop of a British caste system that has transplanted itself to a new country.<br /><br />  What saves Carey's novel from being some kind of diatribe against the intolerant injustices of the British settlers is the balanced portrait he provides of the core of the Kelly gang itself. These are not significantly admirable characters. Kelly's mother, in particular, though by every degree a strong, earthy woman, is also given to compromise and is prone to shift allegiances as contingencies dictate. Kelly himself, though exhibiting numerous noble qualities, is as apt to take on a degenerate, ruthless partner as he is prone to show a benign love of a younger sister. In other words, there are ambiguities at play here. Some readers are prone to react negatively to moral ambiguity. They want their characters black and white, their plots cut and dry. Neither Twain, McCarthy or Carey will satisfy such expectations, so readers looking for those qualities should avoid said authors.	2002-07-19
US	50747141	R2ZZA6M40BBDYH	0192835297	205911130	Selected Poetry (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	4	10	N	N	A Portal Poet	George Gordon (Lord Byron) should be at the top of every eighteen-year-old schoolboy's list. He certainly was mine. If any human being ever summed up better what it was to be a misfit, romantic, self-centered spirit, I would give money to that individual gladly, as well as an eternal endowment. Having come across &quot;Childe Harold,&quot; as well as &quot;Childe Harold Revisited,&quot; and the supremely Promethean, Miltonic, \\"Manfred,\\" at that tender age, I felt myself the principal target of Byron's message. With a healthy dose of Ayn Rand and Aldous Huxley to back me up, all I needed was Manfred's craggy peaks to provide the dramatic backdrop for my Napoleonic, Nietzschean ruminations. Throw in a bit of Emerson, Thoreau, Whitman and Carlyle, and you have the perfect romantic in embryo, which I was at that age and which I believe is a healthy larval stage for any human spiritual entity at that stage, be it either male or female. Add a dash of Melville, any Bronte you choose and a touch of the Baghavad Gita, the Upanishads, the I-Ching, the book of Tao, and you have a convert to esoteric, at times misguidedly solipsistic, hippy philosophy. That was me.<br />  So if you are seventeen or eighteen, don't overlook the romantics who are the necessary guides to our enlightenment at that impressionable age. I in no manner mean this disparigingly, as I now consider myself at least semi-enlightened, if only in the strictest, literary sense. Follow Keats, Shelley, Byron, Blake, Wordsworth, Goethe, Schiller, Carlyle, Melville, and Emerson to the ends of the earth. They shall take you there and beyond.	2002-07-18
US	50747141	RMPVSRT0J2OXW	0822204509	650239354	The Glass Menagerie: Acting Edition	Books	5	13	18	N	N	Ranks as One of the Finest	There are few American playwrights who rank as highly in the Pantheon as Tennessee Williams. He is up there with O'Neill, Miller and Albee as amongst the quintessential dramatists of the 20th century. This is one of his earliest, and in some respects his most timeless, of his scripts. No one can argue that it his most autobiographical, as it portrays a cloyingly suffocating matriarch, Amanda, and a younger sister, Laura, who are both interchangable characters for Williams' own little St Louis family. Actually, in real life, the outcome was much more tragic, as Williams' mother had a frontal lobotomy performed on his actual sister. One can see how Williams may have harbored some deep resentments towards his mother, and he spends most of his time getting even with her in this Euripidean play.<br />  Though recent adaptations of this play have emphasized the \\"touchy-feely\\" aspects of the relationship between brother and sister (Why does Treat Williams come to mind?), the actual script lends itself to a much darker, Medea-like interpretation, which I believe Williams originally intended. This is Williams way of getting back at the evil Witch of the West who dominated his youth and who would exert her influence upon him for the rest of his life. It doesn't take a Freud to untangle this thread.	2002-07-18
US	50747141	R2UUPNNSJYZ9KW	0375758232	943705979	Paris to the Moon	Books	3	30	60	N	N	Not Up to the Mayle Standard	The title, Paris to the Moon, derives, as the author points out, from a book by Jules Verne (From the Earth to the Moon [1865]). It may also conjure up, as it did in my mind, George Melies silent masterpiece, \\"Le Voyage Dans La Lune (1902), with its unforgettable image of the man in the moon wincing as the rocket hits him square in the right eye. Unfortunately, this is only one of many of Gopnik's rather forced allusions, and for the most part, his prose doesn't quite measure up to his aspirations. His attempts at coming across as a reverse-crossing Alexis De Toqueville never acquire the necessary intellectual weight to be taken seriously. This leaves him in Peter Mayle territory, the French capital equivalent of the Provencal ex-pat, wending his way somewhat comically through the trails and tribulations of Gallic bureaucracy, with large dollops of cultural commentary along the way. Here again, however, the comparisons do not lend themselves favorably to Gopnik. Mayle is much better at this sort of thing. For one thing, Gopnik's anecdotes are far less amusing than Mayle's. Whereas Mayle's vignettes capture perfectly the charming idiosyncrasies of his Provencal neighbors, Gopnik's come across as recherche, almost contrived. Again like Mayle (who must at the least, have been in the back of Gopnik's mind as a model for this sort of writing), Gopnik frequently digresses in his story to discuss cultural and particularly political variants in Parisian society. Yet whereas Mayle might take off on a tangent that actually leads to some new insight into \\"the French character,\\" Gopnik provides no real revelation or compelling portrait. We just get his less than insightful musings in too many instances.<br />  The book's strong points, on the other hand, look, at first glance, as among its most glaring weaknesses. At one point in the book, he writes for several pages about a bed time story he made up for his young son. It revolves around an infant baseball player, named the kid, who becomes a pitcher for the early-century New York Giants. What starts out as gaggingly cloying, turns out to be rather inspired story telling. It also provides a very sweet, genuinely touching portrait of the relationship this father had with his little boy.<br />  Another high mark goes to Gopnick for providing some genuinely useful information for Americans who might wish to make a prolonged sojourn in Paris. His discussion of the differences between American and French appliances and the varied assortment of outlet prongs should serve as a valuable warning to Yankees who want to follow in Stein's, Fitzgerald's and Hemingway's footsteps, as should his depiction of apartment hunting in the city of lights.<br />  Some readers at this site have objected to the fact that Gopnik was in too privileged a position and vantage point to be somehow \\"authentic.\\" This is beside the point. These were \\"New Yorker\\" articles, after all, not triple A guideposts. Though a little pseudo-intellectual at times, Gopnik does not come across as a snob.<br /> There are shortcomings and merits to this book. As a family journal, it succeeds, as we do get a clear picture of what it is like to raise a small nuclear family (later a \\"choix du Roi [sp?]) in the environs of Paris. Where the book fails, is in its measure of wit, which by Maylesian standards, is sub-par.e kid, who becomes a pitcher for the early-century New York Giants. What starts out as gaggingly cloying, turns out to be rather inspired story telling. It also provides a very sweet, genuinely touching portrait of the relationship this father had with his little boy. <br />    Another high mark goes to Gopnick for providing some genuinely useful information for Americans who might wish to make a prolonged sojourn in Paris. His discussion of the differences between American and French appliances and the varied assortment of outlet prongs should serve as a valuable warning to Yankees who want to follow in Stein's, Fitzgerald's and Hemingway's footsteps, as should his depiction of apartment hunting in the city of lights. <br />    Some readers at this site have objected to the fact that Gopnik was in too privileged a position and vantage point to be somehow \\"authentic.\\" This is beside the point. These were \\"New Yorker\\" articles, after all, not triple A guideposts. Though a little pseudo-intellectual at times, Gopnik does not come across as a snob. <br /> There are shortcomings and merits to this book. As a family journal, it succeeds, as we do get a clear picture of what it is like to raise a small nuclear family (later a \\"choix du Roi [sp?]) in the environs of Paris. Where the book fails, is in its measure of wit, which by Maylesian standards, is sub-par.	2002-07-17
US	50747141	RNXVFJ5E07PZ6	0192839276	587835818	Adolphe (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	24	26	N	N	An Underlooked Classic	Benjamin Constant is a fascinating figure in the history of French letters. He was amongst a group of writers that were at the forefront of the Romantic Movement in France that included Jean-Jacques Rousseau and Constant's mistress, Germaine de Stael. Madame de Stael was a leading light of intellectual society during the directorate and the empire periods. Her salon in Geneva was the meeting place for many of the artists, philosophers, novelists and poets of her day. Benjamin Constant was her lover and most ardent admirer. Critics have long assumed that the core plot of Adolphe, which involves a younger male engaged in a prolonged liaison with an older mistress, must have been autobiographical. L. W. Tancock, in his introduction to the Penguin Classics edition, claims that this is only partly the case. He writes: \\"What are Eleanore and Adolphe? Of course the factual framework is the story of Anna Lindsay, the beautiful, ageing, foreign mistress of an aristocrat, and so is Ellanore's submissiveness and limited intelligence. On the other hand the possessiveness, the violence, the scenes, the sending out of a search party to bring back the wandering lover, all these things are from the miserable existence of Benjamin with Mme de Stael.\\" So what we are left with basically is an amalgam of autobiography and fiction, somewhat the same formula Tolstoy used in Anna Karenina.<br />  Whereas Tolstoy, in his depiction of a tragic love affair was wonderfully digressive, producing a novel with various sub-plots and a large, colorful canvas, Constant opts for economy and directness. This is a short novel, what by today's standard would be called a novella. It is composed of ten short chapters and is thus, ostensibly, \\"an easy read.\\" It follows one plot line with one set of characters (though there is a framing narrative, it doesn't interfere with the essential linearity of the story).<br />The plot is rather familiar to readers of European literature. It follows the would be Cassanova, Adolphe, who, in his early twenties, decides that he must have a mistress if he is to be a man of fashion. He therefore lights upon a woman about ten years older than himself and whom he regards as a realistic target because she is already somewhat socially compromised, as she is the mistress of an older man, a certain Count P___. Elleanore is slow to succumb to Adolphe's machinations, but he is persistent and she eventually yields. The two lovers carry on a secret affair for a period and eventually Count P__ figures out what's going on under his nose and Elleanore makes the decision to leave her supporter and her children and cast her fate with Adolphe. Adolphe by this point has gotten cold feet and tries to dissuade her from leaving children and protector, but she is insanely in love and will follow Adolphe to perfidy and damnation if need be. They leave town and take their illicit love on the road. Adolphe, who has manufactured his feelings for Elleanore in the first place, becomes more and more morose as he realizes he has gotten in over his head and he now has a mistress who is completely dependent on him and who lets him know about it continually. Adolphe's father, meanwhile, who initially insinuated that Adolphe should take on a mistress, entirely disapproves of his son's choice. Finally the couple move to Poland, where Elleanore is to come into a large inheritance and Adolphe finds his existence more and more meaningless. At the urging of one of his father's aristocratic friends in Poland, Adolphe finally comes to the decision that he must break away from Elleanore, so he writes a letter to his father promising to end the affair. She intercepts the letter and falls into a swoon that eventually takes her death's door and to her final demise. Adolphe ends up as a broken man, wandering the outer byways of the continent, lamenting the errors of his ways.<br />  Adolphe is an example of the concise, crystalline form of writing for which the French are noted. It is the form utilized and epitomized by writers such as Abbe Prevost, Rene de Chateaubriand, Alfred De Musset, etc. The novels they produced create in depth what they lack in length. That is one of the reasons we call them classics.<br />  This review is for the Penguin Classics paperback version of Adolphe, prefaced and translated by L.W. Tancockre noted. It is the form utilized and epitomized by writers such as Abbe Prevost, Rene de Chateaubriand, Alfred De Musset, etc. The novels they produced create in depth what they lack in length. That is one of the reasons we call them classics. <br />  This review is for the Penguin Classics paperback version of Adolphe, prefaced and translated by L.W. Tancock	2002-07-17
US	50747141	R2OP3XAZLFW0D5	0803253664	701590537	Venice Preserved (Regents Restoration Drama)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Restoration Drama	The period of English theater that coincided with the restoration of the crown is best known for comedy. This is with good reason. The comedies of Wycherly, Congreve, Etherege, Davenant, etc. still retain their satirical bite and energy, whereas the drama of the period, especially the attempts at tragedy, appear now dated and lugubrious.<br />  Otway, like Dryden, is something of an exception. Though not adhering to the Aristotean rules of tragedy that Dryden practiced, Otway shows in Venice Preserved a great deal of dramatic skill and competence. The plot elements may seem a bit contrived, particularly in comparison to the Greek model, but the dialogue doesn't sink into the sort of heroic, declamatory mode that characterizes so many plays of the period and that sound so laughable to a modern audience. The play was well received in its time, as was his other famous work, The Orphan. Unfortunately for Otway, playwights were not often well compensated in that era, and he like Savage, lived a life of penury.<br />  Venice Preserved is still well regarded enough that it is still taught in many college courses that cover Restoratiion theater. Though modern productions are extremely rare, is is a work that retains power and its pathos.	2002-07-08
US	50747141	R2NFX6508M7JNX	0316578991	100603499	The Black Veil: A Memoir with Digressions	Books	2	0	2	N	N	Digressive Nonsene	This is the type of self-pitying tome that Hawthorne, Melville, or any other true New England artist would and could never have been accused of producing. To turn one's ancestry into some sort of self-involved paradigm is to feed the need of the modern middle class fest of narcicism. Give us all a break, please. You are, in the first place, uninteresting intellectually. You are also bouncing a ball repetitively against a backboard that is concave, thus sending the projectile back to you and you alone. The rest of us have laid our rackets down out of sheer disinterst. Trust the naysayers on this one.	2002-07-06
US	50747141	R2E4JJBPRQPDR7	0226857719	409766880	Pushkin's Button	Books	3	13	16	N	N	Potential Interest, but Goes Nowhere	This book is full of interesting subject matter. Pushkin, the founding father of Russian Literature and its most exemplary poet, is a fascinating figure, embodying the enigmatic Russian soul and character. He was the ultimate Romantic outsider. His African descent was the subject of behind-the-back snickering at the court of Nicholas I. He was, however, held in great esteem as a writer by his contemporaries, yet he did not achieve his heroic status until after his death. It is his death (at the relatively young age of 38) in a duel with the French dandy, George D'Anthes, that is the primary subject of Serena Vitale's investigation.<br />  The main drawbacks to Pushkin's Button are stylistic. Instead of marshaling her facts and presenting them in a forthright manner, Vitale instead resorts to a kind of breathy, gossip-laden, Dominick Dunne for \\"Vanity Fair,\\" type exercise. She also scatters tidbits of information that she claims will have some significant import later in the story, yet in most instances, this turns out not to be the case. If she is trying to write a mystery, there are way too many red herrings. She claims that a series of letters found in a trunk in Paris in 1989 and viewed for the first time by her, reveal some startling information concerning the events leading up to the duel.  Written by D'Anthes to his patron Barron Heeckeren (the Dutch Ambassador to Russia, who later adopted D'Anthes and may have had a more-than-fatherly love for his charge), they convey nothing particularly startling. To those familiar with the background behind the main characters, the fact that the letters reveal that D'Anthes and Heeckeren were shallow, supercilious hedonists is hardly news. Though she constantly hints that \\"all will be revealed,\\" concerning the identity of the perpetrator of the \\"cuckold letters\\" that were disseminated amongst the Petersburg aristocracy, and that directly led Pushkin to challenge D'Anthes to the fatal duel, the identity behind the letters is never established. This is but one example of myriad unsubstantial queries the author leaves hanging.<br />  For those looking for a more carefully reasoned, and infinitely better written book that covers much of the same material, I would recommend Henri Troyat's biography of Pushkin. Troyat, unlike Vitale, doesn't engage in empty conjecture and he has a thorough understanding of Russian history and literature, as he has authored several great biographies, ranging from Peter the Great, Catherine the Great, Tolstoy, Elizabeth II, Alexander I, etc.s never established. This is but one example of myriad unsubstantial queries the author leaves hanging.<br />  For those looking for a more carefully reasoned, and infinitely better written book that covers much of the same material, I would recommend Henri Troyat's biography of Pushkin. Troyat, unlike Vitale, doesn't engage in empty conjecture and he has a thorough understanding of Russian history and literature, as he has authored several great biographies, ranging from Peter the Great, Catherine the Great, Tolstoy, Elizabeth II, Alexander I, etc.	2002-07-03
US	50747141	R3IQ2ZGFLMJK9N	0815604890	830155903	A Reader's Guide to Joseph Conrad (Reader's Guides)	Books	4	3	7	N	N	An Exploration, Not a Guide	Karl is an important Conradian scholar, yet there are points at which he makes claims that are almost indefensible. For example, in this treatise, he claims that there is no &quot;cosmic significance&quot; to The Secret Sharer.&quot; &quot;The Surface,&quot; he writes, &quot;is in this case the story.&quot; The novella is, despite Leggatt's protestations to the contrary, merely &quot;a tale for boys,' devoid of any ulterior meaning. How a respected writer could make such a claim about any Conrad narrative is beyond the pale. The Secret Sharer is amongst Conrad's deepest and most symbolically rich excursions in any genre. It is a veritable cornucopia of symbolism and divergent meanings. To reduce it to a story &quot;about growing up,&quot; is to miss the boat entirely.<br />  To give Karl his due, he does allow as how &quot;The Secret Sharer&quot; is &quot;one of Conrad's best.&quot; But his criterium misses the mark when it comes to the multi-demensionality of the narrative. He states that as far as its &quot;suggestiveness, it is paradoxically, one of the most straightforward and obvious works. Its narrative is a model of clarity, like those uncomplicated narratives &quot;Youth,&quot; and &quot;The Shadow Line.&quot; In other words, if one accepts Karl's reading, &quot;The Secret Sharer&quot; is the kind of &quot;traditional&quot; text that Roland Barthes calls &quot;sterile,&quot; since it becomes &quot;wholly predictable and obviously intelligible&quot; - a sophomoric tall tale easily digested and expunged in countless high school English classes from now 'till doomsday.<br />  I could also expound from now 'till doomsday why this is justifiably not the case and that &quot;The Secret Sharer,&quot; like its counterpart &quot;Heart of Darkness,&quot; are in fact fraught with meaning and enigmatic depths. Both offer rich lodes of symbolism and psychological investigation, just as Conrad's other meaningful creations invite. To dismiss &quot;The Secret Sharer&quot; as a book for boys undermines and in fact almost torpedos an otherwise valuable treatise.s a book for boys undermines and in fact almost torpedos an otherwise valuable treatise.	2002-07-01
US	50747141	RR7FT4EGHUP3J	9711001934	835976250	George Ade's Stories of Benevolent Assimilation	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A Neglected, but Timely, American Voice	I came across this author while reading H.L. Mencken's book on the American language. Mencken, whose opinions I generally admire, suggested that Ade was a noteworthy purveyor of American slang, a-la Twain. What I found, after investigating this book, is that Ade was also a noteworthy purveyor of American satire, akin to both Twain and Mencken himself.<br />  These selections deal primarily with the early 20th century occupation of the Phillipines by the American military after the Spanish - American war. Using numerous vehicles, including a satirical play and a dialogue between a father and son, as well as essays, Ade forcefully gets his point across that American interests in the Phillipines were disingenuous, at best, and probably downright spurious. Yet he doesn't try to hit anyone over the head with angry polemics. His wry brand of satire and warm humor turn the trick instead. As such, he offers an effective counterbalance to the firebrand style of William Randolph Hearst, et al.<br />  Ade's efforts have a great deal of relevance today, as we are engaged, once again, in debates over globalization and the westernization of third-world countries. The questions he raises still have merit. His targets haven't shifted much in 100 years. Definitely worth a look, not only for its political relevance, but as an example of American prose craftsmanship.	2002-07-01
US	50747141	R14NEJEJJF4ZWN	0846210908	286308284	Joseph Conrad: A Study	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Literate Friend	Like Ford Maddox Ford, Curle was, for a time, an intimate literary friend of Conrad's. His book provides some interesting insights into the great author's writing process and into his personality, as well. For Conradians, Curle is an indispensible source. Jocelyn Baines provides the background. Curle provides the personal reflection, as when he describes Conrad's being subject to &quot;paroxyms of fury, into which he could be plunged by people who, for one reason or another, had angered him.&quot;<br />We don't usually think of the stolid, placid, stoical Conrad as being a human being who could occasionally blow his top. Curle brings him down to earth a bit, as when he reports that Conrad was notoriously afraid of &quot;losing his self-possession, even for a moment.&quot; Certainly the pictures of the author that have come down to us try to convey the image of the steady-going voyager and captain, ever-composed and thoroughly self-possessed. Curle's depiction shows us another side to this enigmatic author. One that historians and scholars should not overlook when investigating the great man's works.	2002-07-01
US	50747141	R1EG6OX18G5FE6	0198157967	912930325	Ludwig Tieck: A Literary Biography	Books	4	0	0	N	N	One of the Originals	Tieck is an often neglected link in the path of German Romanticism. He is in many respects, the Rosetta Stone for any exploration into the \\"dark,\\" 'mystical\\" aspects of German, Continental, and eventually British Romantics investigations into mystical or occult motifs. There have been few treatises in English that have given adequate attention to his influence on later writers, ranging from Goethe to Coleridge. Paulin's book does much to counteract this difficiency. He offers an in-depth exploration of this author's life and output. Tieck's most immediate successor is Jean Paul, but he is in many respects the progenitor of a long line of important and ever-accesible authors, that lead eventually to Kafka, Borges and Nabakov.	2002-07-01
US	50747141	R2BTJE7AGH9P63	0880641428	645679642	Peter Schlemiel: The Man Who Sold His Shadow	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Can Be Read for Pleasure or Scholarship	This is the story of Peter Schlemihl, an impoverished, ineffectual young student whose misguided yearning for the finer things in life leads him into contact with a mysterious party guest who offers him fulfillment of his dreams in exchange for his shadow.<br />  The outcome of the deal is pretty much a foregone conclusion, since Chamisso takes no pains concealing the satanic identity of his antagonist. As is usual in these cases, the Devil appears to get the better part of the bargain. Schlemihl, provided with a never-empty \\"purse of Fortunatus,\\" has piles of gold, but no one to spend them on. The fraulein who is the object of his affection will have nothing to do with a shadowless man.<br />  The story is one in a long line of cautionary tales that warn against dealing with the likes of Mephistopheles. The critic, Karl Miller, points out that Schlemihl is denied a comfortable existence, since \\"he begins and ends as an outcast: by hazarding his soul for gain, he is barred from family life, from the happiness of marriage.\\" The idea of an outsider whose self-will bars him from middle class comforts can be traced in German Romantic literature from the late 18th century to the time of Hesse.<br />  Chamisso's tale may strike the modern reader as little more than a literary curio, a moralistic fairy tale replete with enchanted moneybags and seven-league boots. In Chamisso's day, however, the work was highly esteemed and had enormous influence on writers such as E.T.A. Hoffman and Hans Christian Anderson, who wrote stories of their own in the \\"Schauerroman\\" genre.<br />  One facet of the story that has bearing in terms of modern critical inquiry is Chamisso's adoption of a framing device that is in many respects self-reflexive. The central narrative is epistolary, which, in terms of the conventions of the day, was nothing out of the ordinary (Richardson being the most common example). What makes things more interesting about \\"The Man Who Lost His Shadow\\" is the author's including himself as a character in the story. At the tale's conclusion, Schlemihl signs off with the announcement: \\"So ends my story. On a cloudy day I will take these papers to you, my friend Chamisso, that you may do with them what you think right.\\" We have here an attempt, however crude (especially when compared with the subtleties of Borges or Nabokov), on the part of an author investigating the boundaries between fictional and \\"real\\" worlds. Chamisso's depiction of the dissociated self also represents a departure from earlier German Romantic authors such as Kleist and Richter, who tended to represent Doubles more obliquely and figuratively. Peter Schlemihl's shadow will lead to the more concrete manifestations of the double motif found in the works of Hoffman, Hogg and Conrad.<br />  This novella is short and well paced. It can definitely be read for pleasure as well as for an appreciation of its place in an important literary movement.thor's including himself as a character in the story. At the tale's conclusion, Schlemihl signs off with the announcement: \\"So ends my story. On a cloudy day I will take these papers to you, my friend Chamisso, that you may do with them what you think right.\\" We have here an attempt, however crude (especially when compared with the subtleties of Borges or Nabokov), on the part of an author investigating the boundaries between fictional and \\"real\\" worlds. Chamisso's depiction of the dissociated self also represents a departure from earlier German Romantic authors such as Kleist and Richter, who tended to represent Doubles more obliquely and figuratively. Peter Schlemihl's shadow will lead to the more concrete manifestations of the double motif found in the works of Hoffman, Hogg and Conrad.<br />    This novella is short and well paced. It can definitely be read for pleasure as well as for an appreciation of its place in an important literary movement.	2002-06-30
US	50747141	R3B2ZBC0ANTKX2	0140258795	803603230	Longitude: The True Story of a Lone Genius Who Solved the Greatest Scientific Problem of His Time	Books	4	132	152	N	N	A Good Beach or Airplane Book	This is a highly readable little book, and I recommend it, with a few caveats.<br />  Sobel presents her material logically and lucidly. She is a good prose stylist and is obviously an accomplished reporter. This book, however, feels like what it is: a series of articles stretched out a little to accomodate a best-seller format. The story is an intriguing one. An 18th century inventor rises from obscurity and against great odds and bias,  produces an instrument that will prove of enormous benefit to his country and to humankind.<br />  Just don't go into the reading of this book expecting great historical writing. Sobel acknowledges in a postscript that she doesn't include footnotes &quot;because this book is intended as a popular account, not a scholarly study...&quot;. She has culled her research, for the most part, from interviewing historians, attending a seminar, and visiting various sites in England. At least she is forthright about her methodology, so she won't have to face the gauntlet that Kearns-Goodwin and Ambrose have recently had to run (mixed metaphor?).<br />  Another minor irritation arises from the fact that one of the prominent blurbs one finds when opening the book comes from Diane Ackerman, whom Sobel later indentifies in her list of acknowledgments as her &quot;dear friend.&quot; Again, at least she's being transparent about it, but it still strikes me as a bit disingenuous.<br />  To her credit, Sobel does include a rather comprehensive bibliography, so those who want to further investigate Harrison's achievement are well guided.<br />  Longitude is a good, quick summer read. For those who want some pith with their punch, however, I would recommend the A&amp;E Sturridge video or CD adapted from this work.	2002-06-30
US	50747141	RFYSATZAAIKBT	0385720920	729613164	Choke	Books	2	6	21	N	N	"Annoying" might not be the right word....	but it's the first one that comes to mind.<br />  Having read through most of the customer reviews of this book, I conclude that I may not be giving the author enough of a chance. It appears that those who have read more of his novels cite this as his weakest effort. This book is just so poorly constructed and devoid of originality that I am going to have a difficult time devoting any reading time to Palahniuk's other attempts. I'd also have a difficult time remembering how to spell his name if it weren't emblazoned on the Amazon page as I write.<br />  The novel recalls A Confederacy of Dunces in many respects. Both novels have unlikable protagonists with difficult, suffocating mothers. The humor in both works is on about the same sophomoric level as well. Those for whom Toole drew \\"guffaws\\" will likely find Palahniuk's lines equally refreshing.<br />  This writer tries way too hard at being clever. From its contrived, overworked opening to its \\"startling\\" denouement, the novel spins on erratically, never finding any clear direction or viewpoint. Nothing rings true. This is evident in his description of his friend's being placed in the stocks at the Historical theme-park where the narrator works. He relates that the ground in front of the stocks is riddled with animal feces and urine. In reality, why would this be the case? What kind of Jamestown are we talking about here? Certainly not the one that I have experienced. The same sort of fictional license is at work when the narrator describes his co-workers as so-many sexual deviants. In fact all the characters in the novel are sexual deviants. Again, in reality, this would hardly be the case. Of course, all this could be in the narrator's mind, but then what's the point?<br />  There is so much interesting and constructive fiction, history and biography on the market today that one would do well to avoid mucking about in this fruitless void.	2002-06-26
US	50747141	R38GSRZG2NFHDY	0375502912	678550726	Seabiscuit: An American Legend	Books	5	53	56	N	N	Five Stars and Counting	It's hard to determine the true hero of this book. Is it the taciturn trainer, Tom Smith, who took a colt the worlds leading trainer (the still-revered Sunny Jim Fitzsimmons) couldn't truly fathom and turn the reject into a champion racehorse? Is it Charles Howard, the car salesman turned millionaire who devoted so much of his time, money and energy to his beloved horse, never second-guessing his trainer and remaining ever steadfast in every adversity, including the death of his son?  Is it Seabiscuit himself, the reluctant claimer who went on to a superstardom that matched or superseded anything later achieved by Michael Jordan or Tiger Woods? Perhaps it is Johnny (Red) Pollard, the jockey who emerged from depths about as low as any human being can go to the winner's circle in America's most prestigious races? All of these would be strong candidates, but my Eclipse Award goes to Laura Hillenbrand, for rising up out of her sickbed often enough and long enough to accomplish something just as miraculous as the feats that Seabiscuit and team pulled off.<br />  Take it from someone who spent six years of his life as an observer and worker at backstretches all around this country. I have held jobs from hot walker to trainer, at venues such as Belmont Park, Gulfstream, Santa Anita, Bowie, The Fairgrounds, Monmouth Park, etc. I also had a chance to observe some excellent horsemen for whom I worked, including Frank Whitely, Elliot Burch, Woody Stephens, and others. I had the pleasure to meet and talk with Alfred Vanderbilt, one of the characters in this story, as he was an owner of one of the trainers for whom I groomed horses. I?ve seen most of what the backstretch has to offer, from  the lowliest stable-hand at a rickety bullring track in New Mexico, to the richest owner in the world purchasing horses at the Keeneland Yearling Sale.  So perhaps I feel myself qualified, though it is hardly necessary, to say that Laura Hillenbrand has written the book I wish I had had the talent and fortitude to write. Her book, more than any other I have ever read, captures life on the backstretch as it is, was, and ever shall be. She has gotten to the essence of horse-racing, capturing perfectly the allure, the dreams, the utter exhilaration and despair that unfolds day in and day out behind the scenes at racetracks the world over. She has done this despite severe physical infirmities that would have stopped us lesser humans in our tracks. Reading this book left me feeling as though I had just won the pick-four at Hollywood Park. Hats off and thrown high into the air to Laura Hillenbrand for an accomplishment that will be next to impossible to match.e talent and fortitude to write. Her book, more than any other I have ever read, captures life on the backstretch as it is, was, and ever shall be. She has gotten to the essence of horse-racing, capturing perfectly the allure, the dreams, the utter exhilaration and despair that unfolds day in and day out behind the scenes at racetracks the world over. She has done this despite severe physical infirmities that would have stopped us lesser humans in our tracks. Reading this book left me feeling as though I had just won the pick-four at Hollywood Park. Hats off and thrown high into the air to Laura Hillenbrand for an accomplishment that will be next to impossible to match.	2002-06-21
US	50747141	R3V2IE83E6IZM3	0679747362	659610206	The Changing Light at Sandover: A Poem	Books	5	20	25	N	N	Merrill's Masterpiece	The Changing Light at Sandover is Merrill's magnum opus. It is also the greatest example of epic poetry in modern literature. Divided into four sections (four being a mystical number [seasons, elements, etc] and possibly alluding also to Eliot's \\"Four Quartets\\"), Sandover, is, as far as I am aware, the longest single poem in the modern cannon. Yet length alone is not what qualifies this as an epic poem. Like all true epic poetry, it borrows heavily from its classical predecessors, so Homer, Virgil, Dante, Milton and even Tasso are alluded to throughout the poem.<br /><br />  The method behind the poem is fairly well known, and is in fact included in the poem's narrative. Merrill and his life-partner, David Jackson, would ritualistically cleanse themselves for a stipulated period, then consult the spirit-world by means of an Ouija Board. Merrill served as a kind of amanuensis, taking dictation from spirits from another dimension and translating the messages into poetry.<br /> Merrill has been branded as an elitist by some, and there is no getting around the fact that he did consider himself and his partner as members of an order higher than that of most of mankind. He believed in a quasi-Gnostic hierarchy, wherein human beings are ranked according to their spiritual development. Unfortunately, the belief system he invokes leans more closely to Third Reich mysticism than to Buddhism or Hinduism. A great many people, according to Merrill's tenets, don't even have souls. They exist only on an animal level. One can see where this sort of thinking can, and has led.<br />  I don`t want to infer, however, that Merrill, or this work, are in any manner political or polemical. This is a true work of art, full of imagination and of ideas. The sheer scope of creativity on display in \\"Sandhurst\\" is unsurpassed in the past 100 years of poetry, with the possible exception of \\"The Waste Land.\\" It should be read and studied (and hopefully, cherished) by all lovers of literature. Whether or not Merrill existed on a higher plane than most of us is certainly debatable, even questionable. Whether or not his excursions into other spiritual realms were \\"real\\" or were delusional is also debatable. What is not debatable, is the fact that he produced a remarkable and very important poem in the process.Whether or not Merrill existed on a higher plane than most of us is certainly debatable, even questionable. Whether or not his excursions into other spiritual realms were \\"real\\" or were delusional is also debatable. What is not debatable, is the fact that he produced a remarkable and very important poem in the process.	2002-04-25
US	50747141	R3R7RMR4E0EE23	0140445803	639487352	The Manuscript Found in Saragossa	Books	5	65	75	N	N	A Very Palpable Hit	Imagine a book written by Edgar Allen Poe, translated by Edward Fitzgerald, filtered through the consciousness of Jorge Luis Borges, and you would have some inkling of what makes this extraordinary book so special. It is to literature what surrealism is to painting. Potocki, who on the strength of this book alone qualifies as Poland's greatest literary figure, prefigures the postmodern movement with his sleight-of-hand and multi-multi-layered text. A Freudian could spend years investigating the recesses and depths of Potocki's subconscious.<br /> The framing device is a young nobleman's romantic wanderings through a section of Spain that could exist only in the mind of someone who was none too selective about his/her diet, or the kind of herbs they decided to ingest. A grotesque and lurid air suffuses this imaginative tale. The plot, if it could be called such a thing, unfolds like a chinese puzzle, one unreliable narrative nested within another. ...It wends its way into your thoughts like an ear-boring worm. It is the sort of work that Danielewski attempted, rather feebly by comparison, in his novel, House of Leaves. Potocki combines the supernatural with the erotic in a way that is unique in literature. Open the pages of this book and prepare to be disturbed and unsettled at times, but be prepared also to engage in a long, strange, diverting trip.<br /> By the way there is a CD of a movie version of Manuscript which was made in Europe in the 60s. Apparently it has been shown periodically in San Francisco art houses, and was appreciated by Jerry Garcia, among others. If the movie even approximates the book, I could understand why.	2002-04-01
US	50747141	R3IOSJEK0C0J4J	0940450100	328255742	Francis Parkman : France and England in North America : Vol. 1: Pioneers of France in the New World, The Jesuits in North America in the Seventeenth Century, La Salle and the Discovery of the Great West, The Old Regime in Canada (Library of America)	Books	5	57	58	N	N	A Titanic Achievement	This multi-volume edition of Parkman's magnum opus might appear initially daunting, as it covers more than 1,200 pages of material. Suffice it say, however, that the rewards are entirely worth the effort of fording your way through this majestic work.<br /> Parkman triumphed over numerous personal disabilities (extremely poor eyesight and recurring pain in his limbs), to produce some of the most important and transcendent histories of the 19th century, works that secured him a place in the American Pantheon, beside Prescott and Bancroft. He has been interpreted both as an example of literary Romanticism by some, and as a supreme pessimist by others. His objective as an historian was to \\"while scrupulously and rigorously adhering to the truth of facts, to animate them with the life of the past, and, so far as might be, clothe the skeleton with flesh.\\" This notion is reflected repeatedly throughout these volumes. His style is highly descriptive, borrowing as it does from his numerous treks to the sites he writes of. The Jesuits, trappers, governors, nuns and explorers he depicts come across as flesh-and blood, breathing, human beings, engaged in real activities. He has little place for abstraction, and never dwells overlong on minutiae. The ramifications of particular pacts or treaties, for instance, are subordinate to actual events and places. When he takes the reader into an Indian log-house,  he/she can practically taste the smoke as it permeates the air.<br />  When it comes to Native Americans, Parkman is far from sentimental. In fact, he bridled at the notion, common in 19th Century Romanticism (particularly Rousseau and even more conspicuously in Chateaubriand's &lt;Atala&gt;), of the Indian as noble savage. Parkman's earlier book on the Oregon Trail stemmed in part from his experiences amongst the Sioux on the Western Plains. The Indians depicted in these pages are, for the most part, more savage than noble. The Iroquois are especially ferocious in their raiding parties and in their methods of reprisal. Those who fell victim to their wrath were in for days and nights of unspeakable torture. Parkman describes these scenes almost too vividly. But as he himself would note,<br />\\"Faithfulness to the truth of history involves far more than research, however patient and scrupulous, into special facts. The narrator must seek to imbue himself with the life and spirit of the time.\\" There are some academics that would argue that Parkman is not as objective as he would like us to think. He has a fairly consistent Protestant, Bostonian, Brahmin bias as regarding Catholicism, for instance. His view of Native Americans is hardly what could be termed politically correct. However one may feel about his viewpoint, one can not dismiss his power of depiction, or the scope of his genius and enterprise. When taking into account the fact that he produced volume upon volume of history, under the most debilitating circumstances, there can be no denying that he qualifies, as perhaps no one else, as \\"The American Gibbon.\\" For the reader who wants to relive history at its most vivid, Parkman provides the goods. He paints in realistic detail the struggles, adventures and misadventures, the faith and foibles, great tribulations and monumental victories of an exceedingly noteworthy cast of characters. There are the infinitely stoical, but often-scheming Jesuits. There is the monomaniacal, driven, but honest-dealing and ultimately tragic figure of LaSalle. Champlain is another noteworthy figure, truly heroic in stature. The most heroic figure, however, may after all be Parkman himself. Shaped as he was by the notions of greatness fostered by such writers as Carlyle, it was a state he strove consciously to achieve. This collection, along with others in the Modern Library series, indicates that he achieved his goal. Thanks to The Modern Library for making authors such as Parkman accessible once more.aiding parties and in their methods of reprisal. Those who fell victim to their wrath were in for days and nights of unspeakable torture. Parkman describes these scenes almost too vividly. But as he himself would note,  <BR>\\"Faithfulness to the truth of history involves far more than research, however patient and scrupulous, into special facts. The narrator must seek to imbue himself with the life and spirit of the time.\\" There are some academics that would argue that Parkman is not as objective as he would like us to think. He has a fairly consistent Protestant, Bostonian, Brahmin bias as regarding Catholicism, for instance. His view of Native Americans is hardly what could be termed politically correct. However one may feel about his viewpoint, one can not dismiss his power of depiction, or the scope of his genius and enterprise. When taking into account the fact that he produced volume upon volume of history, under the most debilitating circumstances, there can be no denying that he qualifies, as perhaps no one else, as \\"The American Gibbon.\\" For the reader who wants to relive history at its most vivid, Parkman provides the goods. He paints in realistic detail the struggles, adventures and misadventures, the faith and foibles, great tribulations and monumental victories of an exceedingly noteworthy cast of characters. There are the infinitely stoical, but often-scheming Jesuits. There is the monomaniacal, driven, but honest-dealing and ultimately tragic figure of LaSalle. Champlain is another noteworthy figure, truly heroic in stature. The most heroic figure, however, may after all be Parkman himself. Shaped as he was by the notions of greatness fostered by such writers as Carlyle, it was a state he strove consciously to achieve. This collection, along with others in the Modern Library series, indicates that he achieved his goal. Thanks to The Modern Library for making authors such as Parkman accessible once more.	2002-02-20
US	50747141	R3BXYX98NN17XX	0312203322	450798880	The Lecturer's Tale: A Novel	Books	5	27	32	N	Y	Top Recommendation of 2001, So Far	Kurt Vonnegut once wrote that the worst minds on a university campus could be located in the English Department (followed closely by Education). James Hynes' cast of characters do little to belie this notion, and they are indeed a fairly accurate, though obviously exaggerated, representation of the sort of jargon-spewing sub-intellects that are tenured in too many English departments on too many American campuses these days. The bywords, &quot;gender, race and class,&quot; have come to represent the core of the department curricula on any given campus, from junior colleges to major universities. Hynes takes these prevalent trends and skewers them delightfully.<br /> Even those who don't normally find academic satire their usual cup of tea will find kernels of truth and true wit in this cerebral romp. As in all true satires, the characters are more representational than dimensional, yet they still are fleshed out vividly enough that one believes them true to type. Some reviewers have objected to the fact that none of the characters in &lt;The Lecturer's Tale&gt; are likeable. This again, is a device of true satire. Is it necessary that we &quot;like&quot; Gulliver in order to appreciate Swift's great comic vision? Gulliver behaves abominably in many situations. So too does Hynes' protagonist, Nelson Humboldt (just one of the myriad literary references that are scattered throughout the novel). Humbodlt is himself a representation of  &quot;***hole Lit,&quot; that Nelson plans to expound upon in a future dissertation (a study including the &quot;lovable ****ups of modern American fiction: Fitzgerald's Gatsby, Bellow's Herzog, Updike's Harry Angstrom, Percy's Binx Bolling, John Cheever's Falconer, Richard Ford's Sportswriter)&quot;. The literary referents do fly by rather blazingly in this novel, particularly in the belfry scene towards the end, though Hynes does clear things up for the reader in a kind of appendix. I caught the Milton and Shakespeare references, but didn't recognize the Plato or Thomas Hardy, but you needn't keep a scorecard or be a literary savant to enjoy the story.<br />  There've been several comments by reviewers here that the ending is inordinately weak versus the first 300 pages. It may be that some readers are missing the point as to what Hynes is up to here. The Vita/Robin/sprite segment represents a literal rendering of deconstructionism. The plot, in fact, the whole fabric of the story breaks down and explodes in so many scattered shards, just as the physical construct of the library does. Hynes is actually engaging in the same sort of self-referential byplay in which the theorists whom he here ridicules regularly engage. In other words, this breakdown is an authorial choice and serves as part of a playful, complex authorial scheme. It's one of the book's strengths, rather than weaknesses.<br />  If you're looking for reading that will take you away for a while from some of the grim realities we have been facing the past months, give this marvelous escape a try. Again, even those who generally abhor fiction with academic backdrops (myself included), will find something to love about this book. It is a plain, old-fashioned hoot.dn't recognize the Plato or Thomas Hardy, but you needn't keep a scorecard or be a literary savant to enjoy the story.  <br />    There've been several comments by reviewers here that the ending is inordinately weak versus the first 300 pages. It may be that some readers are missing the point as to what Hynes is up to here. The Vita/Robin/sprite segment represents a literal rendering of deconstructionism. The plot, in fact, the whole fabric of the story breaks down and explodes in so many scattered shards, just as the physical construct of the library does. Hynes is actually engaging in the same sort of self-referential byplay in which the theorists whom he here ridicules regularly engage. In other words, this breakdown is an authorial choice and serves as part of a playful, complex authorial scheme. It's one of the book's strengths, rather than weaknesses. <br />   If you're looking for reading that will take you away for a while from some of the grim realities we have been facing the past months, give this marvelous escape a try. Again, even those who generally abhor fiction with academic backdrops (myself included), will find something to love about this book. It is a plain, old-fashioned hoot.	2001-11-02
US	50747141	R3OPA9OQY0FFG0	0684832801	837753671	The Middle East: A Brief History of the Last 2,000 Years	Books	5	209	218	N	N	As Good An Overview  As Can Be Provided	Lewis is the Daniel Boorstin of Middle East historians. He brings the same sort of encyclopaedic knowledge to his subject. The vast scope of his erudition is evident on every page in this volume. In fact, if there is anything to quibble about, it may be that few readers will be able to keep pace with him as he traverses Middle-Eastern history and landscape.<br />  Part of the difficulty in keeping up comes from the way in which Lewis presents his information. This is not your typical linear narrative, starting at a particular era and then ploughing forward through time. Though there is an overall progression (we start out in the Roman era and end up in current times), the author also often backtracks when discussing different aspects of the civilizations he covers. So while the book starts out in a relatively chronological manner in the first few chapters(Romans&gt;Byzantines-Crusades&gt;Mongol Invasions&gt;Turkic Ascendency-Ottomans), we suddenly detour to Part IV of the book, entitled &quot;Cross-Sections.&quot; Lewis then proceeds to break down different societal components such as &quot;The State,&quot; &quot;The Economy,&quot; &quot;The Elites,&quot; etc. in which he backtracks to provide additional details about groups he has earlier portrayed. This is where I for one, who am looking for enlightenment on these subjects and have no real background scholastically speaking, had a hard time keeping track. I consider myself at least a moderately attentive reader, and a lover of history from Herodotus to Gibbon to Parkman to Tuchman, but felt swamped at times here from the sheer wealth and breadth of information. One also had better be up on their geography from about six different eras in that part of the world. Though there are a series of maps in the appendix, obscure towns, countries and dynasties are paraded forth at a rate that is taxing for the general reader. While we may be familiar with place-names such as Mecca, Medina or even Basra, how many western readers are going to have a mental image of the area that Yathrib sits in? or Nishapur? or Bukhara? The maps don't really help either, as the regions that have the most obscure towns are in areas that are the most darkly shaded, and the print is so fine, it's impossible to make the names out.<br />  All that said, if you want to learn about a region that up until recently not many westerners were really all that interested in, Lewis is an excellent teacher. Just be warned that he is rather a dry lecturer. He's not a &quot;school of color&quot; historian. He's an academic and a pure scholar. There are vitually no anecdotal details. No human interest. No exciting passages or descriptions of great battles. He is a purveyor of information and you will come away from reading &lt;The Middle East&gt; with a lot more information than you came in with. If, like me, you think being at least reasonably well-informed at times such as these is important, you will want to investigate this book.ders are going to have a mental image of the area that Yathrib sits in? or Nishapur? or Bukhara? The maps don't really help either, as the regions that have the most obscure towns are in areas that are the most darkly shaded, and the print is so fine, it's impossible to make the names out. <br />  All that said, if you want to learn about a region that up until recently not many westerners were really all that interested in, Lewis is an excellent teacher. Just be warned that he is rather a dry lecturer. He's not a &quot;school of color&quot; historian. He's an academic and a pure scholar. There are vitually no anecdotal details. No human interest. No exciting passages or descriptions of great battles. He is a purveyor of information and you will come away from reading &lt;The Middle East&gt; with a lot more information than you came in with. If, like me, you think being at least reasonably well-informed at times such as these is important, you will want to investigate this book.	2001-10-22
US	50747141	R81H1QY9926TG	0451188462	562576523	Desperation	Books	4	30	49	N	N	Formulaic, but Still Beguiling	Steven King writes novels pretty much the way McDonald's sells hamburgers, churning them out on a never-ending assembly-line. True, they're not nourishing or particularly tasteful, but every once in a while they're just something for which one has an occasional hankering.<br />  But there is also another bonus involved in both processes. One knows exactly what one is going to get. In the case of McDonald's, we're going to get an overcooked piece of identifiable beef that is not going to send us to the emergency ward. With King, we can predict that we will not be sorely disappointed, but neither will we be looking to the thesaurus, searching for superlatives to describe our reading experience.<br />This is particularly true of &lt;Desperation.&gt; It delivers on all the fronts that we have come to expect from Stephen King in the last decade. It has a plot only marginally predictable, with some truly ingenious twists, a cast of characters that have been formed out of a cookie-cutter, and enough blood and gore to get us 600+ pages past the meandering flashbacks that clutter the otherwise inventive narrative. What has become most predictable and formulaic in recent King novels, primarily the smarmy repartee, the inability to resist bringing in brand name endorsements (Jolt Cola, Ryder Trucks, and Barney's NY fashions, to name a few), gets in the way of an otherwise very good horror story. At this stage, we really could do without the 40's movies banter, which was highly appropriate when the characters were played by Bogart and Bacall or Judy Garland and Mickey Rooney, but ring tinnily here. Even an 11-year-old  always has a smashing retort whenever he is addressed by one of the other characters.<br />Which brings us to the central character himself, David, a thinly disguised Christ-figure, who suffers the ultimate sacrifice, but must somehow muster the faith and the strength to do battle with the Tak-evil force that surfaces from the China Pit in this Nevada podunk town. We've gone through this before in &lt;It&gt; and &lt;The Talisman&gt;, the young protagonist who is wise way beyond his years, who must undergo the ultimate suffering before emerging as a savior. And yes, if there are complaints to be made about King repetition, this surely has reverberations regarding &lt;The Stand&gt;. It takes place in Nevada and deals with a band of good-guys standing up to an unspeakable evil.<br />Chalk it up to 4/5ths inspiration, 1/5th repetition.<br /> This is, despite its flaws, an immensely readable novel, with enough actually compelling philosophy (a-la The Book of Job) and even asks the same questions that caused Ivan in &lt;The Brothers Karamazov&gt; to deny a God who could condone human cruelty. This reader, at least, was beguiled into believing I was reading something meaningful as well as entertaining.We've gone through this before in &lt;It&gt; and &lt;The Talisman&gt;, the young protagonist who is wise way beyond his years, who must undergo the ultimate suffering before emerging as a savior. And yes, if there are complaints to be made about King repetition, this surely has reverberations regarding &lt;The Stand&gt;. It takes place in Nevada and deals with a band of good-guys standing up to an unspeakable evil.<BR>Chalk it up to 4/5ths inspiration, 1/5th repetition.<br /> This is, despite its flaws, an immensely readable novel, with enough actually compelling philosophy (a-la The Book of Job) and even asks the same questions that caused Ivan in &lt;The Brothers Karamazov&gt; to deny a God who could condone human cruelty. This reader, at least, was beguiled into believing I was reading something meaningful as well as entertaining.	2001-09-01
US	50747141	R3LQYUZEZYZBFC	0743418263	452670847	Music & Silence	Books	5	12	14	N	Y	Buy it, You will not be dissapointed.	Rose Tremain has developed into a first-rate historical novelist. &lt;Restoration,&gt; which she wrote a decade earlier, was her first strictly historical novel and &lt;Music and Silence&gt; is her culminating point. It is all that one can ask for in a novel. Lovers of intrigue will find riches here, as will fans of romance without the treacle. As historical novels go, this one is rich in terms of story, some would say thin in terms of history. However, historical detail and accuracy is not Tremain's aim here. In fact, whole chapters owe more to the tradition of magical realism than to historical fiction. Tremain is looking to Corelli, Scarlatti and Couperin for her inspiration, with a brief sidebar or two to Marquez. So readers looking for a history fix a-la Uris or Flanagan should look elsewhere.<br />  If comparisons were needed, it wouldn't be too far-fetched to liken Tremain at her best to Mark Helprin at his. Both often take an incident in the historical tapestry and reweave it into something entirely original and bold. They are similar as well in their occasional weaknesses. Some of their characters are beautifully developed, while others are aborted before they gain any real dimension or texture. Neither goes in much for concrete details. Instead, they rely on poetic imagery and color to provide sensory impressions. Both also draw on the tradition of magical realism in that they combine the mythic with the profane, and combine the possible, the probable, the improbable and the impossible in their fictions. For Tremain, &lt;Music and Silence&gt; marks her furthest venture yet into this genre.<br />  The plot of the novel shifts kaleidoscopically amongst figures both real and imagined in 17th century Denmark, Norway and England. Each succeeding chapter offers a juxtaposed narrative, so those looking for pure linear story-telling might be uncomfortable with Tremain's style. However, the narrative never really drifts far afield, and Tremain remains firmly in control, presenting us with a composition that is at once baroque in terms of its spiraling dimensions, and modern in terms of its strange cadences and even its occasional dissonance.<br />  This is the one novel that I am enthusiastically and unhesitatingly recommending to friends and acquaintances when the conversation turns to books. Number One with a Bullet.in control, presenting us with a composition that is at once baroque in terms of its spiraling dimensions, and modern in terms of its strange cadences and even its occasional dissonance. <br />     This is the one novel that I am enthusiastically and unhesitatingly recommending to friends and acquaintances when the conversation turns to books. Number One with a Bullet.	2001-08-04
US	50747141	RWGF4VJF9BBJM	0679781277	682628461	Martin Dressler: The Tale of an American Dreamer	Books	5	33	39	N	N	&quot;We are such stuff as dreams are made on.&quot; Prospero	Martin Dressler is Prospero, Horatio Alger, Jay Gatsby, William Randolph Hearst, William Paley, Richard Cory, Donald Trump, Icarus, and most prominently, he is everyman and nobody.  As noted by the more astute observers on these pages, Millhauser has created a fable here, a myth, a romance about human limitations and possibilities. The readers who attack the book for lack of depth, or characterization, or plot, have missed the mark, most likely because they are not well-grounded in Millhauser's mythic sources, and can't recognize a carefully-construed allegory.<br />  This novel is as textually rich as a novel can be, but one must dig a little deeper, as Martin digs deeper into the earth in each successive structure he creates. It is also a novel of psychology, as Martin also digs deeper and deeper into his subconscious mind as the novel progresses. This is a multi-tiered work, operating on so many levels as to leave one dazzled at the sheer scope of the enterprise. Such works are easily dismissed by the masses, which is why it is surprising that the Pulitzer committee, so often gravitating to the successful and the obvious, definitely got one right in this instance.<br />  The structure of the novel parallels the themes and &quot;plot&quot; of Millhauser's story. In the first few chapters we find ourselves inhabiting a rather mundane, prosaic, grounded reality, as Martin, the son of a cigar-store owner (as was William Paley), is presented as an industrious, intelligent young man who is liked by everyone he encounters. He is, in these early stages, marked more by his efficiency than his imagination. As the novel progresses, we find ourselves venturing further and further from the ordinary and the possible, into the realm of the extraordinary and then the impossible. The move is from terra-firma to terra incognita, from reality as we understand it to the realm of fantasy and magical-realism. It is also as if Martin's mind deteriorates (transmutates?) from sanity to insanity as he descends (or is it ascends?) into his dreamscape.<br />  There is also an element of Greek fatalism at work here, as Martin is led along in his voyage of discovery by powers greater than himself: &quot;...again he had the old dream-sense that friendly powers were leading him along, powers sympathetic to his deepest desires.&quot; Whether or not the gods at work here are truly benign is one of the issues that are not thoroughly resolved in the course of the book, just as they never were in Greek tragedy. Those desiring neat resolutions, should in fact, stick to more mundane, uni-dimensional novels.<br />  Martin's relationship with his wife, Caroline, is also the subject of much criticism at this site. Millhauser is enigmatic on this score as well. He makes obvious her position as the sleeping beauty alone in her tower, whom the prince (Martin) cannot awaken. Yet the mythic elements go deeper than that. The Vernon women also connote the three godesses (Hera, Athena and Aphrodite) at the judgement of Paris, with Martin obviously representing Paris. Martin's/Paris' selection of Aphrodite sets in motion the final catastrophe.<br />  Perhaps the most overlooked aspect of Martin's character is his invisibility (though one reviewer did mention Ellison in passing). Martin starts out as substantive and real, but is transformed further and further until at last he, like his dream, &quot;was left behind to fade slowly into the blue-gray mist of dawn...&quot; In the final chapter he is described as feeling &quot;light, transparent,&quot; yet he has actually become transparent long before this. Martin is a ghost haunting the various regions of turn-of-the-century New York. His erotic impulses involve approaching women from behind, so that no faces are involved. It may also be noted that Millhauser never really shows us what Martin looks like, except for a passing remark about clean-shaven cheeks or a slightly bushy mustache. This is an obvious choice on the author's part as he is highly descriptive about many other characters.<br />  For those of you who have dismissed this book for its lack of substance or coherence, it may be suggested that you have indeed missed the boat on this one. This is a novel of rich texture and meaning that may require more than a cursory reading if you are to discover its truths and its ultimate &quot;message.&quot; Read it again in the context of myth and possibly even as a companion piece to a work such as C.S. Lewis' &lt;Till We Have Faces&gt; to fathom just how deep this novel is. My only slight criticism is that in the final chapters Millhauser descends to spelling out the allegory for those who hadn't gotten it up that point. Great artists leave that up to the reader/spectator. If not for that slight flaw, this novel would have stood in the front ranks of recent storytelling.author's part as he is highly descriptive about many other characters. <br />    For those of you who have dismissed this book for its lack of substance or coherence, it may be suggested that you have indeed missed the boat on this one. This is a novel of rich texture and meaning that may require more than a cursory reading if you are to discover its truths and its ultimate &quot;message.&quot; Read it again in the context of myth and possibly even as a companion piece to a work such as C.S. Lewis' &lt;Till We Have Faces&gt; to fathom just how deep this novel is. My only slight criticism is that in the final chapters Millhauser descends to spelling out the allegory for those who hadn't gotten it up that point. Great artists leave that up to the reader/spectator. If not for that slight flaw, this novel would have stood in the front ranks of recent storytelling.	2001-07-27
US	50747141	R3QLEZCO0DDOSD	0781272009	423263436	Plague Pamphlets (BCL1-PR English Literature)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Much Different Than Defoe	Dekker wrote of an earlier plague (1603),than did Defoe, but this account differs in aspects other than period. It starts out as a lighthearted account, portraying a golden age, a utopian state, before the death of Elizabeth I . Life in London, from the period of the Spanish Armada to the present (thebeginning of 1603),  is described in paradisical terms, with bounteous harvests, perfect government, citizens living in perfect harmony with one another, etc. Unfortunately, Elizabeth's subsequent ill-timed death and James' ascension have an unfortunate effect on English destiny, though the poet does try to convey some entirely hollow-sounding optimism that all will be well under James I.<br />This is all told in an easily-detected, subversive, comic voice, and one has to wonder how the author was not placed upon the rack for such an abrasive, abusive attack upon the monarchy (the author's identity must have been much more cleverly concealed than Shakespeare's, if you buy into that one). The tone of this piece, however, shifts entirely, about half way through, as Dekker enters into a description of the 1603 plague.<br />  What had been, up to this point, an excercise in ribaldry and lighthearted political attack, turns suddenly into a heartfelt, utterly realistic description of the effect of the plague on his fellow countrymen. In many ways it is even more graphic, and at heart, poetic, than Defoe's deservedly celebrated account that will come about 50 years later. Defoe gives more detail, yet Dekker furnishes a more graphic and visceral impression of the horror the plague represents. He conveys a more complete mental image, entirely too graphic at times. In all honesty, should you want your thoughts to turn to the subject of your own mortality, by all means turn to this text.	2001-04-28
US	50747141	R2LGFBZWWVN0BI	1558850600	680563008	The Account: Alvar Nunez Cabeza de Vaca's Relacion (Recovering the Us Hispanic Literary Heritage)	Books	5	33	36	N	N	The Original &quot;Survivor&quot;	Cabeza De Vaca's account of his expedition into the new land is a grand tale of true adventure and survival. The degree of privation and outright danger with which his ever-dwindling band of explorers was constantly faced is perhaps unmatched in any other annals.  Separated from their ships early on, and led by inept commanders, the survivors are left to fend for themselves as they make their inexorable trek across the continent and towards \\"civilization.\\" Along the way, De Vaca describes the various tribes he is at turns befriended, then enslaved by as he makes his way west. Some of these tribes live on the lowest rung of subsistence, and engage in the most savage customs, such as killing all the females in their societies, and even their young boys, in some convoluted system they have worked out with enemy tribes. All they have for food is roots, pecans (when in season), and the occasional insect or salamander. De Vaca is subjected to the worst privation of all when he loses his clothes when a barque, which he and a couple of escaping comrades have constructed, capsizes and he is forced to go naked for almost twenty months.  The tide turns finally in his favor when the Indians come to believe that he and his fellows are blessed with healing powers. As they make their way west, from tribe to tribe, news of their great power precedes them and they are given gifts, which they turn over to the guides that accompany them. By the time they reach what is now New Mexico, their fame has spread and they are seen as gods who bestow healing and blessings on the Indians they encounter, whereas the other Spanish Conquistadors in the new world have instilled fear and suffering amongst the native peoples. This does not go over well with Diaz' captain who first encounters them after their long trek. Instead of welcoming his long-lost compatriots with open arms, he orders their arrest. The survivors do eventually make it to Mexico City, however, where they are much more warmly received and after a harrowing sea voyage, involving storms and pirates, they finally make it home.<br />  What really distinguishes De Vaca's account from those of Diaz, Pissarro, Cortez and other explorers is his humane view of the tribal cultures with which he interacted. Apart from being extremely brave, he is also truly \\"Christian\\" in his willingness to forgive even those at whose hands he received the cruelest treatment. He implores his King, at whose behest the account is written, to show mercy on the natives, maintaining that a great deal more could be accomplished through helpful assistance, than by force and slavery. Unfortunately, given what history tells us of the Spanish conquest, the royal ear was never truly turned De Vaca's way.<br /> This is a relatively short, but extremely interesting, even compelling, read. It would serve well as an entry-level portal into the history of Spanish exploration and conquest for young readers. I would recommend that if you find the subject interesting that you go on to read Diaz' account and Prescott's monumental work.more warmly received and after a harrowing sea voyage, involving storms and pirates, they finally make it home.<br />         What really distinguishes De Vaca's account from those of Diaz, Pissarro, Cortez and other explorers is his humane view of the tribal cultures with which he interacted. Apart from being extremely brave, he is also truly \\"Christian\\" in his willingness to forgive even those at whose hands he received the cruelest treatment. He implores his King, at whose behest the account is written, to show mercy on the natives, maintaining that a great deal more could be accomplished through helpful assistance, than by force and slavery. Unfortunately, given what history tells us of the Spanish conquest, the royal ear was never truly turned De Vaca's way. <br /> This is a relatively short, but extremely interesting, even compelling, read. It would serve well as an entry-level portal into the history of Spanish exploration and conquest for young readers. I would recommend that if you find the subject interesting that you go on to read Diaz' account and Prescott's monumental work.	2001-04-25
US	50747141	RRU1JQF7B65AX	0060925795	498390362	Medieval Lives: Eight Charismatic Men and Women of the Middle Ages	Books	1	22	28	N	N	Skimpy on the History, with Dreadful Diologue	Medieval history is a fascinating subject in the right hands. The &quot;eight charismatic men and women of the middle ages&quot; that Professor Cantor includes in these vignettes are all worthy of study. They were movers and shakers in their eras, and are good representatives of their times. Cantor begins in the 4th century with a chapter on the Emperor Constantine's mother, Helena Augusta. Two other medieval women, Eleanor of Aquitaine and Hildegarde of Bingen, figure in later chapters. The book is divided into nine chapters, taking us from the 4th to the 15th centuries.<br />The last chapter features a kind of round-table discussion at a French castle (this is after Henry V has defeated the French at Agincourt) between John, Duke of Bedford (Henry V's brother), Cardinal Beaufort, Sir Edmund Smythe (&quot;Duke John's civil and legal administrator in France), Thomas Blount, Abraham de Mendoza (A Spanish Jewish convert to the Christian faith and a rpominent papal banker), Christine de Pisan (Parisian poet, critic and book publisher), Brother William Marsh (Duke John's confessor), &quot;Irishman&quot; Dennis Hennessey and Mathilde of Hainault (&quot;abbess of St. Mary of Rouen&quot;). This chapter also sums up what is weakest and even amateurish about this book. Instead of engaging in any sort of free-flowing, naturally occuring diologue, these figures are mereley thrown together by the author to spout staged-sounding, wooden exposition. As literary characters, they are totally artificial, contrived mouthpieces whose sole function is to relate historical information the author wants to get across. Often, the information Professor Cantor conveys is misinformation anyway, as evidenced by the following passage, in which Christine de Pisan describes the current conditions in Venice: &quot;I do not know from personal experience what they think in the Adriatic now, but if I know the Venetians, they will not let the Florentines get ahead of them, and will give their own twist to the idea of the Renaissance. Being closer to the Byzantine Empire, they will, I expect, stress Greek as well as Latin antiquity, and in view of the parlous condition of Constantinople, hard pressed continually by the Turks, I would surmise that the Venetians would pursuade Greek scholars to relocate from Byzantium and set up schools in Venice. But as to the issue so heatedly debated here, I agree with Mendoza that a new cultural era has dawned. For better or worse, I think the Middle Ages are waning.&quot;<br />  What is wrong with this picture? Aside from the fact that the diologue is clumsily constructed and completely artificial, the fact that a professor of &quot;history, sociology and comparative literature&quot; at NYU would have one of his characters say, in the middle of the 15th century that &quot;the Middle Ages are waning&quot; is sad indeed. The most common, rudimentary logic would dictate that a person living in what we term &quot;the Middle Ages&quot; wouldn't consider them the &quot;Middle Ages.&quot; They would consider themselves to be living in the &quot;Modern Age,&quot; if anything. But in fact they didn't tend to think in terms anywhere near these in the first place. The same is to a lesser degree true of the term &quot;Renaissance.&quot; That capitalized expression didn't have any currency until Walter Pater's 19th century essays on Italian Art. These are just among the most glaring of the myriad inaccuracies strewn across the pages of Medieval Lives. There is so much good literature on medieval history out there that one could turn to practically any work and come up with something superior to this . One can't go wrong turning to the primary texts either. Read Froissart, St. Augustine, Procopius, Joineville, or the Venerable Bede. Pass this one by.st to the idea of the Renaissance. Being closer to the Byzantine Empire, they will, I expect, stress Greek as well as Latin antiquity, and in view of the parlous condition of Constantinople, hard pressed continually by the Turks, I would surmise that the Venetians would pursuade Greek scholars to relocate from Byzantium and set up schools in Venice. But as to the issue so heatedly debated here, I agree with Mendoza that a new cultural era has dawned. For better or worse, I think the Middle Ages are waning.&quot; <br />    What is wrong with this picture? Aside from the fact that the diologue is clumsily constructed and completely artificial, the fact that a professor of &quot;history, sociology and comparative literature&quot; at NYU would have one of his characters say, in the middle of the 15th century that &quot;the Middle Ages are waning&quot; is sad indeed. The most common, rudimentary logic would dictate that a person living in what we term &quot;the Middle Ages&quot; wouldn't consider them the &quot;Middle Ages.&quot; They would consider themselves to be living in the &quot;Modern Age,&quot; if anything. But in fact they didn't tend to think in terms anywhere near these in the first place. The same is to a lesser degree true of the term &quot;Renaissance.&quot; That capitalized expression didn't have any currency until Walter Pater's 19th century essays on Italian Art. These are just among the most glaring of the myriad inaccuracies strewn across the pages of Medieval Lives. There is so much good literature on medieval history out there that one could turn to practically any work and come up with something superior to this . One can't go wrong turning to the primary texts either. Read Froissart, St. Augustine, Procopius, Joineville, or the Venerable Bede. Pass this one by.	2001-04-20
US	50747141	R11WK4XCKQD73A	0452282152	858318999	Girl with a Pearl Earring: A Novel	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Slow Going, But Worth the Effort	&quot;Girl&quot; doesn't exactly qualify as compelling fiction. It moves along at its own quiet pace, threatening stagnation at times. Chevalier's prosaic, spare style actually suits the subject matter quite well, however. It reflects Dutch society of the period, which was not about &quot;flash,&quot; to put it mildly. The author does a superior job of depicting the straight-laced, mercantile society of late-Rennaissance Delft. She is also shrewd in her decision to focus on the barter system, the spring which provided movement to the social mechanism throughout Holland. Griet metes out small sexual favors to the butcher, Pieter, for instance, in exchange for information about her family, who have been quarantined due to an outbreak of the plague. Vermeer's mother-in-law, Maria Thins, acts as the artist's agent as well as the head of the household. She is interested primarily in the money a particular painting will bring in, rather the aesthetic result.<br />  There are some problem areas with the narrative. The chief being a matter of &quot;willing suspension of disbelief.&quot; Griet, the narrator, at one point informs us that she can barely sign her name and that she is illiterate. At no point in the novel does she relate how she came by the ability to write her story down, and given the nature of her position later in life, it would beg credulity to see how she could have taught herself to read and write. This could easily be dismissed as artistic license, but Griet's own standards are so precise and exacting, that the flaw seems more glaring in context. One other minor negative is stylistic. Chevalier is at her best when she sticks to the straightforward prose that predominates here. Sometimes, however, she allows Griet a rhetorical flight into poetry land and the result borders on the risible, as when she mentions the smell?/sound? of a particular brick mortar. The editor just missed that one, apparently. On the whole, however, this novel is extremely well-written and Chevalier is particularly adept at delineating period and character.written and Chevalier is particularly adept at delineating period and character.	2001-04-19
US	50747141	RSKP6CDLLVX9M	1564588610	589444694	Venice & the Veneto (EYEWITNESS TRAVEL GUIDE)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	The Best of the Lot	Guidebooks in general are going to have their limitations. The gentleman that complained about this one answered his own complaint. A larger, folding map is certainly an essential when trying to navigate (and I use the term literally here) this city. That said, this appeared to me on a recent visit to be extremely helpful, especially in terms of giving me an artistic/cultural overview of the main sites. The same could be said about the same company's editions of Rome and Italy proper. They don't dwell on frivolous detail. They are relatively compact and they will guide you to the places you want to go if you are interested primarily in art, history, and architecture, which I was.  As an aside, for anyone who is serious about art I would suggest that before you go you aquaint or refresh yourself with Vasari's &lt;Lives of the Artists&gt; (Penguin suggested), Cellini's &quot;Autobiography,&quot; and any Art book published by Rizzoli. Buy your guidebooks beforehand and determine which artists and which works are most important to you and try to pre-plan in your minds eye at least the path you want to take. Also ask some travel agents or discover on a website the museum hours and when the publice is allowed in free. My only chance to visit the Vatican, for instance, came on a Sunday, when there was free admission and early closure, which led to a rush-job through the sistine chappel. Don't rely entirely on a site such as Rick Steves. My friend did and thought he could pretty much wing it through Italy. The &quot;play it by ear approach&quot; will lead to unbelievably costly delays and dissapointments. Plan, plan, plan.	2001-03-30
US	50747141	RXD0RWC7CAC6Y	0520035526	886827903	Samuel Johnson: Selected Poetry and Prose	Books	5	14	16	N	N	The Doctor is In	Samuel Johnson was in his era what E.F. Hutton was in his. When the Doctor spoke, people listened. His sidekick and amanuensis, James Boswell, of course immortalized his utterances in one of the grandest biographies ever written. What this volume (and similar collections) indicates is that Johnson was equally irrepressible in print.<br />Johnson was nothing if not opinionated. Yet, coming from him, they are never merely opinions. There is always a great degree of heft and weight supporting them (no pun intended, as he was an immense man physically as well as intellectually)). Though he received only an honorary degree from Oxford (he was too poor to remain at school), he was one of the most learned men of any era. The range and breadth of his reading is unsurpassed by any other major literary figure, with the possible exception of Milton. Yet Johnson never comes across as overblown, nor does he ever trumpet his learning. His writing is informed be a sense of humility and compassion, that no doubt were among the attributes that endeared him to so many of the leading lights of his generation. And of course, he also had a marvelous sense of humor, which also comes through in this collection. Unfortunately for him, his good moods were often followed by serious bouts of depression, which is reflected in his most famous poem, &quot;The Vanity of Human Wishes.&quot; By today's standards, he would be diagnosed most probably as a manic-depressive. There were many days when he found it difficult to summon the resolve to get out of bed and face the day. What saved him was his naturally gregarious nature. He thoroughly enjoyed the company he found in London's taverns.<br />His compassion for others is legendary. He thought that the character of a country was determined by the degree to which it ministered to the poor. He was an ardent foe, as exhibited in one of his &quot;Idler&quot; articles, of so-called scientific experimentation on animals. He viscerally describes the cruel and inhumane use that dogs were subjected to by anatomy researchers in his era. It is one of the most compellingly moving diatribes against this still-controversial subject that one is likely to encounter.  One of the marks of great authors is that they say things we sometimes think of ourselves in such an adroit and pithy manner that we think they could not be better expressed. Take this Johnson quote on &quot;idleness,&quot; for example: &quot;As pride sometimes is hid under humility, idleness is often covered by turbulence and hurry. He that neglects his own duty and real employment, naturally endeavors to crowd his mind with something that may bar out the remembrance of his own folly, and does anything but what he ought to do with eager diligence, that he may keep himself in his own favor.&quot;<br />Dr. Johnson was also one of the foremost literary critics in history. Though one may not always agree with his assessments, one has to acknowledge the force of his arguments. In his encomiums to such writers as Shakespeare, Milton and Pope, he intermittently sprinkles censure. For those of us who don't like to see our icons brought down to earth, this is sometimes painful. What Johnson is really doing, however, is showing us that our own judgments are often unbalanced, and we fail to see what are real flaws in the great edifices. Johnson is never interested in pure panegyrics. His task is to examine the entire picture and to report as accurately as possible the grandeur, as well as the shortcomings of a work, whether it is Pope's Iliad, Shakespeare's Hamlet, or Milton's Paradise Lost. If there is a last word that could be said to have been delivered on these monumental works, it may well be Johnson's.<br />If you haven't visited the Doctor recently, do yourself some good and remedy the situation.el and inhumane use that dogs were subjected to by anatomy researchers in his era. It is one of the most compellingly moving diatribes against this still-controversial subject that one is likely to encounter.  One of the marks of great authors is that they say things we sometimes think of ourselves in such an adroit and pithy manner that we think they could not be better expressed. Take this Johnson quote on &quot;idleness,&quot; for example: &quot;As pride sometimes is hid under humility, idleness is often covered by turbulence and hurry. He that neglects his own duty and real employment, naturally endeavors to crowd his mind with something that may bar out the remembrance of his own folly, and does anything but what he ought to do with eager diligence, that he may keep himself in his own favor.&quot; <br />Dr. Johnson was also one of the foremost literary critics in history. Though one may not always agree with his assessments, one has to acknowledge the force of his arguments. In his encomiums to such writers as Shakespeare, Milton and Pope, he intermittently sprinkles censure. For those of us who don't like to see our icons brought down to earth, this is sometimes painful. What Johnson is really doing, however, is showing us that our own judgments are often unbalanced, and we fail to see what are real flaws in the great edifices. Johnson is never interested in pure panegyrics. His task is to examine the entire picture and to report as accurately as possible the grandeur, as well as the shortcomings of a work, whether it is Pope's Iliad, Shakespeare's Hamlet, or Milton's Paradise Lost. If there is a last word that could be said to have been delivered on these monumental works, it may well be Johnson's. <br />If you haven't visited the Doctor recently, do yourself some good and remedy the situation.	2001-02-28
US	50747141	RB1OIGRK4RCZU	0449002632	479109259	London: The Novel	Books	3	137	154	N	N	History (and Literature) Lite	Rutherford takes on the formidable task of relating 2,000 years of London history and must be given some credit for the result. He has obviously done a great deal of research of his subject and doesn't overburden the reader with an overly detailed , dry, scholastic recounting here. Considering the amount of ground he covers, (taking us from the period of  Roman occupation to the German Blitzkrieg), he does so rather economically. The problem lies in his failure to provide us with a  coherent narrative. His framing device of a hidden hoard of gold Roman coins comes off as contrived. His method of detailing generational threads leaves a lot to be desired.  Though he strives for at least a quasi-realistic approach,  how often, in real life, do succeeding generations mirror their ancestors to a degree they do here? Rutherford's approach is in fact anti-Darwinian. There is very little in the way of variation as one generation succeeds another. The offspring are practically clones of their forbears, with the same attitudes, attributes and overall composition. The bad seeds spawn more bad seeds. The good, honest, simple folk likewise pass on their exact characteristics to their children.  Normally, in family trees, there is at least nominal deviation. Not so in Rutherford's London. The device makes it easier for the reader to make connections as the eras pass forth, but true history, we remind ourselves, doesn't happen this way.<br />  The book, therefore, succeeds as a primer in the history of a city. We are given the relevant details of the Roman conquest, medieval revolt, the defeat of the Spanish Armada, the Great Plague, followed shortly thereafter by the Great Fire, etc., etc. Keep in mind, however, that it is a primer only. In some respects the drawbacks are similar to those faced by Lady Antonia Fraser in her book, The Lives of the Kings and Queens of England. Just as the reader becomes engrossed, or at the least engaged, in the period depicted, the author skips on to a different era and a new story. Of course, in Fraser's defense, she does treat the Royals in much more depth in all of her other books.<br />  If you enjoy Rutherford's accounts, please look to authors such as Daniel Defoe (on the Plague), Samuel Pepys (The Plague, the Fire and the Resoration in general). For amusement, as well as insight, you can't go wrong with Boswell's London Journal or his life of Samuel Johnson. For a compelling account of  the Wat Tyler revolt in medieval London, turn to Tuchman or Froissart. A better contemporary novel depicting  Restoration London is Rose Tremain's book, Restoration, which can be found here on Amazon. For the most vivid account of London in the 18th century, turn to Jonathan Swift's poem, \\"A Description of a City Shower.\\" If you want the history, without the fiction, there have been at least four full-scale London histories written in the past decade, most notable among them is Stephen Inman's A History of London.s on to a different era and a new story. Of course, in Fraser's defense, she does treat the Royals in much more depth in all of her other books.<br />       If you enjoy Rutherford's accounts, please look to authors such as Daniel Defoe (on the Plague), Samuel Pepys (The Plague, the Fire and the Resoration in general). For amusement, as well as insight, you can't go wrong with Boswell's London Journal or his life of Samuel Johnson. For a compelling account of  the Wat Tyler revolt in medieval London, turn to Tuchman or Froissart. A better contemporary novel depicting  Restoration London is Rose Tremain's book, Restoration, which can be found here on Amazon. For the most vivid account of London in the 18th century, turn to Jonathan Swift's poem, \\"A Description of a City Shower.\\" If you want the history, without the fiction, there have been at least four full-scale London histories written in the past decade, most notable among them is Stephen Inman's A History of London.	2001-02-28
US	50747141	RYG6A368ACUCD	0694522805	270121541	All The Pretty Horses (The Border Trilogy)	Books	5	44	52	N	N	Grand Tale, Wonderfully Rendered	I didn't realize until I looked at the Amazon site that Frank Muller has narrated so many books. They have 84 Muller listings here, primarily for Stephen King, John Grisham and other best-selling authors. The only other Muller audio-book I was familiar with was his rendition of King's &lt;The Green Mile&gt;, which was excellent. Muller surpasses that here, however, as he renders McCarthy's prose faultlessly. He captures the accents, whether they be Texan or Mexican, faithfully and unaffectadly. This is a great acting-job, natural, unassuming, perfectly in-flow with the narrative. His shift from character to character is seemless. Muller is the latter-day role model for anyone wishing to narrate books. There is ample reason why he is so prolific.<br />  The story itself lends itself to being told orally. It is a myth of the west, but I mean that in the greatest sense of the word. Mythic here does not mean unrealistic. Far from it. It is mythic because it represents higher truths, but tells a human story in as truthful a manner as possible. I hate to use a hackneyed term like &quot;describing the human condition,&quot; but it does. There are other high-school terms I could use, such as &quot;coming-of-age story,&quot; &quot;piquaresque novel,&quot; &quot;story of initiation,&quot; etc. , but they would all short-change McCarthy's accomplishment here. McCarthy represents what is increasiningly scarce in modern American letters. He is a truly original novelist. Yes, we can trace his roots, but he has acquired his unique voice by dint of much effort, trial, delving, maybe even bloodshed. He is one of those authors that after reading one of his works, we are left to ask &quot;How did he come by that knowledge?&quot; He doesn't just research a work. He must have, at least in part, lived it. For instance, in this work, I was left wondering how he could have aquired such an encyclopedic knowledge of all things having to do with horses. I worked on the backstretch of racetracks for five years and didn't know my nomenclature with anything like the authority he does.<br />  It would appear that Muller, like McCarthy has thoroughly done his homework. Never once in the course of this unabridged audio does he stumble over a word, much less a passage. He speaks Spanish almost as fluently as English, which is important for this work. In fact I would suggest that if you do not comprehend Spanish readily, you refer to the text-form of the book and maybe a Spanish dictionary before listening to this tape, though you can still appreciate most of it.<br />My estimation of McCarthy, which was already high, as well as my opinion of Muller, were greatly enhanced by the experience of listening to these tapes.<br />(This review refers to the unabridged audio-tape version of &lt;All the Pretty Horses&gt;. I prefer printed versions of good books, but see nothing wrong with listening to books when we dont have our hands free. Cars, obviously. I know what you were thinking!)ks for five years and didn't know my nomenclature with anything like the authority he does. <br />  It would appear that Muller, like McCarthy has thoroughly done his homework. Never once in the course of this unabridged audio does he stumble over a word, much less a passage. He speaks Spanish almost as fluently as English, which is important for this work. In fact I would suggest that if you do not comprehend Spanish readily, you refer to the text-form of the book and maybe a Spanish dictionary before listening to this tape, though you can still appreciate most of it. <br />My estimation of McCarthy, which was already high, as well as my opinion of Muller, were greatly enhanced by the experience of listening to these tapes.<br />(This review refers to the unabridged audio-tape version of &lt;All the Pretty Horses&gt;. I prefer printed versions of good books, but see nothing wrong with listening to books when we dont have our hands free. Cars, obviously. I know what you were thinking!)	2001-01-17
US	50747141	RPF7QMXKY93BV	0679728740	514887887	Child of God	Books	5	170	189	N	Y	Not Faulkner Lite	Cormac McCarthy is one of the most accessible of modern authors. This in no way diminishes his accomplishments, as he is adept at so many facets of the writer's art. His prose blends perfectly the spare and the lyrical. His pacing is flawless. The reader is swept up into his cadences, secure in the knowledge that he/she will be expertly guided through the thickets and brambles to the clearing ahead, also assured that there would be no needless detours along the way. We are never overburdened with needless detail. Characters are believable and delineated concretely. The reader's senses are awakened to sensory impressions that are visceral. We \\"remember\\" what he describes.<br />  &lt;Child of God&gt; is a great example of this master storyteller's art. It is a novel without any hint at artifice. It can be read by virtually anyone. What distinguishes it from equally \\"accessible\\" works is that it can be read on so many levels. In other words, it is a work that naturally has broad appeal. It will appeal to those who enjoy reading about disturbed murderers and psychopaths. On the other hand it will hold enormous interest to readers who are thoroughly familiar with the Southern Gothic fiction of William Faulkner and Flannery O'Connor. Not to denigrate McCarthy, but on the surface, this work might even be called \\"Faulkner Lite.\\" McCarthy's acknowledgment to Faulkner in fact occurs in the opening sentence of the novel (which also happens to be the work's longest sentence)  &lt; They came like a caravan of carnival folk up through the swales of broomstraw and across the hill in the morning sun, the truck rocking and pitching in the ruts and the musicians on chairs in the truckbed teetering and tuning their instruments, the fat man with the guitar grinning and gesturing to others in a car behind and bending to give a note to the fiddler who turned a fiddlepeg and listened with a wrinkled face. &gt;  This alliterative run-on is clearly McCarthy's way of paying homage to the master.<br /> Like Faulkner and  O'Connor, this novelist peoples his fiction with grotesque, or at the least, exaggerated characters. The Cornelius Suttree of the novel  &lt;Suttree &gt; could just as easily be a member of the Sutpen family in Faulkner. And the main character in this work, Lester Ballad, is every bit as amoral and unconcerned with human life as is \\"The Misfit\\" in \\"A Good Man is Hard to Find.\\" In fact, if one were looking for a literary model for Lester Ballad, one should turn to O'Connor  before going to Hannibal Lecter. Ballard is a kind of amalgam of  The Misfit and Harper Lee's Boo Radley, the \\"child of God\\" sequestered away in  &lt;To Kill A Mockingbird &gt;. The difference being that whereas Boo Radley was only a scarecrow, Ballard is something far more sinister and malignant.<br />  Malignancy, in fact, is what this novel is about essentially. Lester Ballard is a tumor that has been growing and festering within the body of the community. He is a case of \\"out of sight, out of mind.\\" Because he has been repeatedly shunted off  by the insular southern town that McCarthy depicts, he is free in his isolation to let his psychotic mind's tendrils expand and propagate unchecked. McCarthy's underlying message may be that the more we neglect those on the periphery of society, the more we invite evil into our lives. The very title of the book seems to beg the question. It recalls in some respects Christ's warning/appeal that  \\"as you do unto the least of these (God's children), so you do unto me.\\"  So in a very large sense, Lester Ballard represents every street-person you pass in San Francisco or New York or wherever you happen to be a member of a larger community. Ballard is in this sense more avenging angel than irredeemable villain. The malignancy is growing in our collective communities, for the most part unseen, but festering, nevertheless. The greater our neglect, the greater the chance for evil rebounding upon us.<br />  If you have not read McCarthy, this is a great place to start. You can read this novel in one or two sittings, as it flows so smoothly and uninterruptedly that you will not even notice that he is planting these seeds of inquiry as you are rolling along. Yet after you put the book down, you will no doubt take away a lot more than you noticed in passing.d McCarthy, this is a great place to start. You can read this novel in one or two sittings, as it flows so smoothly and uninterruptedly that you will not even notice that he is planting these seeds of inquiry as you are rolling along. Yet after you put the book down, you will no doubt take away a lot more than you noticed in passing.	2000-12-08
US	50747141	R1MYF9WY9F914I	0679720227	169376079	The Fall	Books	5	75	99	N	N	Don't Rely On It	In terms of Camus' entire output, The Fall probably ranks somewhere in the middle as far as quality is concerned, and of course, such categorization is subjective. Still, the middle point of Camus' ouvre is still top-caliber comparatively speaking. Clearly Camus was grappling, digging and searching for answers during this period, which was nothing new for him. He had broken off with Sartre and with the existentialist &quot;school&quot; that was focused on remedying social injustice. Camus had been a member of the French Communist party briefly in the 30's and Sartre wanted to take him back into the fold, but Camus rejected him (of course it's more complicated than that). However, if you're looking for a serious discussion of his soul-searching, you'd be better advised to turn to his essays of the period, rather than to this work, for The Fall represents Camus at play, having a bit of fun with his over-serious readership and with a movement (Existentialism) he felt had become over inflated. What he's doing here is basically taking his pants down and mooning the whole moody, intellectual crowd.<br />The Fall is a monologue (not a dialogue, as mentioned elsewhere), written in first person (not second, as, again, is enumerated several times in the course of reviews here). There is one character in the novel. He is a highly unreliable narrator, a point that is passed over in all the Amazon reviews. He is ostensibly a lawyer, yet his calling card says that he is an actor. Camus is practically yelling at the reader, telling him not to take anything the narrator says at face value: &quot;You, for instance, &lt;mon cher compatriote&gt;, stop and think what your sign would be. You are silent? Well, you'll tell me later on. I know mine in any case: a double face, a charming Janus, and above it the motto of the house: 'Don't rely on it.' On my cards: 'Jean-Baptiste Clamence, play actor.'&quot; The &quot;Jean-Baptiste&quot; is another clue, for if you are familiar with French literature it should ring a bell that Jean-Baptiste Poquelin was the famous playwright Moliere's given name. Not that Jean-Baptiste is that uncommon a name, but in the context, given the fact that the narrator refers to himself as an actor (Moliere acted in his own company), the referent is pretty glaring. So this is a story told by a comedian who is essentially improvising the whole thing, Commedia dell' Arte style. So if you're looking for referents, it has a lot more to do with Pirandello than with Kirkeggard.<br />The only reason for all this background is merely to make the point that this work should not be taken so seriously as it has been by a majority of Amazon reviewers, and by many in the literary community before them. Sure, Camus inserts a lot of angst-ridden, &quot;life's a tale told by an idiot, signifying nothing,&quot; passages, but it's clear by the context that he is parodying himself and his &quot;compatriotes.&quot; This is an intentional shaggy-dog story. He is having us on.<br />Read it for fun. Just don't overtax yourself looking for &quot;deep&quot; meaning here. It's a literary tromp-l'oeil. If the ending of the book doesn't convince you of that, nothing will.iterature it should ring a bell that Jean-Baptiste Poquelin was the famous playwright Moliere's given name. Not that Jean-Baptiste is that uncommon a name, but in the context, given the fact that the narrator refers to himself as an actor (Moliere acted in his own company), the referent is pretty glaring. So this is a story told by a comedian who is essentially improvising the whole thing, Commedia dell' Arte style. So if you're looking for referents, it has a lot more to do with Pirandello than with Kirkeggard. <br />The only reason for all this background is merely to make the point that this work should not be taken so seriously as it has been by a majority of Amazon reviewers, and by many in the literary community before them. Sure, Camus inserts a lot of angst-ridden, &quot;life's a tale told by an idiot, signifying nothing,&quot; passages, but it's clear by the context that he is parodying himself and his &quot;compatriotes.&quot; This is an intentional shaggy-dog story. He is having us on. <br />Read it for fun. Just don't overtax yourself looking for &quot;deep&quot; meaning here. It's a literary tromp-l'oeil. If the ending of the book doesn't convince you of that, nothing will.	2000-11-30
US	50747141	R2S2BWB9FFFN4B	0394716175	686218819	V617 Circus of Dr. Lao	Books	2	11	57	N	N	Deservedly Out-of-Print	I try not to comment on books I don't enjoy these days, primarily because I don't waste time reading such. This is more of a cautionary review. It is easy to mistake this book for children's literature, because of its whimsical cover (referring to the Vintage paperback edition). I've been searching for imaginative reading material for my son (please no e-mail about Harry Potter - my son's just not into the phenom), and picked this up, primarily as a result of Edward Hoagland's comments on the back cover. Hoagland is kind of an avuncular nature writer, known for essays on John Muir and the animal kingdom, so I figured his involvement (he writes the introduction) lent an air of respectability to the volume.<br />  All I can report is that I'm glad I didn't hand the book over to my son without reading it myself first. I am by no means a PC watch guard, but this depression era &quot;fantasy&quot; novel is mean spirited in the extreme. It is also blatantly racist (with a &quot;little black Sambo&quot; spinoff regarding a snake and a &quot;coffee-colored fat boy&quot;). The narrative also constantly refers to &quot;Chinks&quot; and other equally derogatory terms for various races and nationalities. What divides this kind of thing from Huckleberry Finn, for example, is the sensibility behind the writing that one comes away with. In Twain, we sense that the author is every bit as sympathetic towards Jim and his plight as he is scathing of the institution that binds him. With Charles Finney, it would appear that he is just a bigoted product of his era and exploits the racist tendencies that were unfortunately ingrained in the culture then.<br />  If there were truly redeeming qualities to the literature, I might even be able to hold my nose and recommend the author for his powers of imagination. The probem is, the literary merits of this novel are miniscule. It reads like a high school creative writing project. The author has picked up a few tidbits of world mythology and  strings them together in an extremely haphazard crazy-quilt narrative. There is no attempt at characterization or dialogue, just a pastiche of ill-contrived monologues and &quot;tall tales.&quot; When he has completely run out of steam after 100 pages, Finney fills the rest of the book with a catalogue of his cast-of-characters that is nothing more than pulp-filler.<br />  I am nonplussed as to why Vintage included this dime store novel in its reprints of 20th century classics. If this work has any redeeming value, I have yet to discover it. My advice would be to avoid it and I by no means suggest it as advisable reading material for young people.trings them together in an extremely haphazard crazy-quilt narrative. There is no attempt at characterization or dialogue, just a pastiche of ill-contrived monologues and &quot;tall tales.&quot; When he has completely run out of steam after 100 pages, Finney fills the rest of the book with a catalogue of his cast-of-characters that is nothing more than pulp-filler.<br />  I am nonplussed as to why Vintage included this dime store novel in its reprints of 20th century classics. If this work has any redeeming value, I have yet to discover it. My advice would be to avoid it and I by no means suggest it as advisable reading material for young people.	2000-11-29
US	50747141	RIT2L15LDYBOS	0140445595	478505803	Manon Lescaut (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	40	44	N	Y	Classic For A Reason	The Abbe Prevost was the first translator of Richardson's novels in France, as well as a precursor of the Romantic movement. This tale was the inspiration for two famous operas (Massenet and Puccini) as well as a forerunner of many formulaic love stories that came after. One has to remember that this was written in the earlry part of the 18th Century, and there was not any formula before it, at least in terms of the heroine. Manon is the anti-heroine, the woman-in-red, the Eve that gives her partner over to the fates as a result of her easily-compromised sensibility.<br />She can't turn down her creature comforts, even when it means sacrificing her &quot;true love,&quot; her Romeo, for an older, but more solvent, lover, in instance after instance.<br /> Manon is one of the first unsympathetic heroines in literature (let's forget about Eve if we can) , a precursor of Emma Bovary in many respects. Let's also remember that she appears in during the , &quot;golden age&quot; of sentimental fiction in France and Europe generally (the ealry 1700s) . Women are depicted in this era as archetypically virtuous and angelic, or unambiguously sexual (thinking particularly of the late Restoration English stage). What we have in Manon is an amalgam, neither entirely saint, nor entirely sinner. She is the Madonna and the Magdaleine, part angel, part succubus, but an entirely new persona on the European literary stage. This is the reason that she had such an impression on the European artistic imagination. She represents a new dichotomy, a new figure that represents what Henry Adams would have suggested as a representation of the sacred and the profane, the mud and the cathedral.	2000-11-21
US	50747141	R2A0QHQ3NDTPF	0140442731	76700733	Diary of a Madman and Other Stories (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	22	24	N	N	A Great Introduction (Penguin Edition)	Nikolai Gogol had an extraordinarily important influence on Russian literature. A contemporary and friend of Pushkin, he left his mark in several areas, as playwright, novelist and short-story writer. Every Russian writer to come after him acknowledges and reveres Gogol, from Dostoevsky to Bulgakov and on.  This collection is a great introduction to Gogol. All of his most famous stories are included. &quot;Diary of a Madman&quot; shows us the disintegrating psyche of a minor civil servant during the era of the repressive rule of Nicholas I. Gogol had problems with Nicholas' censors (who were as vigilant as Stalin's) and he didn't exactly ingratiate himself with this depiction of bureaucratic malaise. The second short-story in the volume, &quot;The Nose,&quot; again pokes fun at officialdom, but also takes us on a proto-magical-realism ride through mid-eighteenth century St. Petersburg (As an aside, you can currently take St. Petersburg tours of Gogol's fictional landscape, just as you can Dostoevsky's, [and Bulgakov's Moscow]). The third entry in the collection, &quot;The Overcoat,&quot; deals again with an inconsequential bureaucrat (guess what Gogol's background was?) , whose entire existence is wrapped around a new overcoat. Suffice it to say that the story does not end happily for poor Akaky Akakievich. This is in some ways Gogol's signature piece. The story basically involves us in a humorous, at times capricious narrative, but the humor is infused with a great deal of pathos, to the point where we can almost call these tragicomedies.<br />The longest story in the collection, &quot;How Ivan Ivanovich quarreled with Ivan Nikiforovich,&quot; is a case-in-point. On the surface, it is a humorous account of two provincial boobs engaged in  protracted enmity as a result of an inconsequential incident. However, at heart, Gogol is saying a great deal about Russian society, and the human condition, at the same time, and the picture is neither pretty nor funny. This is his most successful short story in many respects, imbued with wisdom and local color. Gogol is the most human and humane of Russian authors, but that does not mean that he is anywhere near  the greatest, as a result.  It would be left to the giants, Tolstoy and Dostoevsky, to truly establish Russia as a birthplace of great writers. But it is to this warmth of spirit that the Russian people and its literati have responded to so fervently for so many years. Gogol, of course, is well represented as a novelist for Dead Souls (or Chichikov's Journeys). He also attempted a Russian epic (Taras Bulba). For most modern readers, however, the stories are the most accessible and the most universally revered as regards his literary output.  Give this volume a chance, and if you like the stories, turn your attention to Dead Souls, which is indeed worth reading.s is his most successful short story in many respects, imbued with wisdom and local color. Gogol is the most human and humane of Russian authors, but that does not mean that he is anywhere near  the greatest, as a result.  It would be left to the giants, Tolstoy and Dostoevsky, to truly establish Russia as a birthplace of great writers. But it is to this warmth of spirit that the Russian people and its literati have responded to so fervently for so many years. Gogol, of course, is well represented as a novelist for Dead Souls (or Chichikov's Journeys). He also attempted a Russian epic (Taras Bulba). For most modern readers, however, the stories are the most accessible and the most universally revered as regards his literary output.  Give this volume a chance, and if you like the stories, turn your attention to Dead Souls, which is indeed worth reading.	2000-10-14
US	50747141	R29L4QJ4UMCNMN	0140440356	125142565	The Devils: The Possessed (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	53	60	N	N	Dostoevsky's &quot;Problem Novel&quot;	Just as Shakespeare wrote what came to be termed &quot;problem plays&quot; (Measure for Measure, The Winter's Tale, etc.) Dostoevsky also presents us with a novel that really doesn't fit in with the rest of the cannon. The Possessed (or The Devils or The Demons, depending on translation) is generally regarded as fourth on the list of his major works (The Brothers Karamozov, Crime and Punishment, The Idiot, The Possessed, in descending order).<br /> There is much to commend in this novel, including Dostoevsky's usual superb mastery of characterization. In this instance too, this Russian master makes each character come alive on the page.<br /> One of Dostoevsky's unique qualities is his ability to create diverse, volatile, personalities who are fated to meet at the most inopportune times and in the most combustible circumstances. He builds suspense by characterization, rather than plot, then throws his combatants together in the most marvellous group scenes in literature. In The Brother's Karamazov, such a scene occurs at Zosima's Monastery, in Crime and Punishment, at the wake, in The Idiot, at Mishkin's birthday party, and in The Possessed, this attribute is displayed better than ever, but particularly in the scene where Nicholas Stavrogin and Pyotr Verkhovensky make their first appearances (yes, it is almost half-way through the novel that the main characers are introduced!). Dostoevsky constructs tension as well as any novelist who ever lived.<br /> What is often overlooked in Dostoevsky discussions, however, is the fact that he is a great comic writer, in the tradition of Gogol. If one goes by Auerbach's definition of comedy, for instance, (that a happy ending determines whether a work is tragic or comic) then Crime and Punishment and The Brothers Karamozov would indeed fall under this rubric. The Possessed presents a more difficult assessment however, particularly the Penguin/Magarshak version which ends with &quot;Stavrogin's Confession.&quot; But there is no denying that there is a great deal of humor, of the most sarcastic, driest, Dostoevkian variety, on display in The Possessed.<br /> The Possessed was written in part as a response to Turgenev's Fathers and Sons. Turgenev's &quot;superfluous man&quot; is represented in D's novel by Stepan Verkhovensky, a middle-aged idler who converses in half-French, half-Russian and whose allegiance is divided between the old school and the new. He goes out of his way to sympathize with the nihilist youths he sees gaining the horizon, yet holds onto his &quot;European&quot; cultural ties. In other words he represents what to Dostoevsky at this stage in his career is most reprehensible. By the 1860s D had become a near-reactionary Slavophile, who felt that European influence was an insidious plague that was besieging Russian thought and culture, and that the Fourier-inspired nihilists were sending Russia on a mad troika ride to her doom. He had little use for figures such as Turgenev, who attempted to synthesize European and Russian culture.<br /> In The Possessed, Turgenev is mercilessly lampooned, in the figure of Karamozinov, a character totally obsessed with the figure he presents to society. What most reviewers overlook, however, is the possibility that Turgenev is represented equally by Stepan Verkhovensy and Karamozinov. And actually if one considers Verkhovensky part of the portrait, Turgenev comes across as a more sympathetice figure, divided between his European &quot;free-thinking&quot; and his Russian &quot;faith.&quot;<br /> The biggest problem of The Possessed, however, in terms of it being D's &quot;problem novel&quot; is the matter of narration. There is an abrupt shift in the narrative from Part One to Part Two. It is not until page 136 of the Penguin edition that we learn that the person telling the story is a Mr. Anton Lavrentyevich, a civil servant in the provincial town where the action occurs. For Part One of the novel, everything that the narrator reveals could have been gleaned second-hand, as he was privy to all the conversations that related to the events recorded. Suddenly, in Part Two, the narrator becomes omniscient, and relates events and thoughts to which he couldn't possibly have had access . This may indeed be the result of the fact that this novel was serialized, as was the case with most of Dicken's novels, for instance. Perhaps D just lost track of the narrative, or perhaps there was some unexplained purpose behind it, but this is the primary criterion I have for placing this as D's least successful major novel. Despite this flaw, I would still rank this as a &quot;great&quot; work, for it perfectly captures the Russian dilemma of the era depicted, much better, in fact, than D's nemesis, Tugenev, achieved in Fathers and Sons (though his was no minor accomplishment either).ould have been gleaned second-hand, as he was privy to all the conversations that related to the events recorded. Suddenly, in Part Two, the narrator becomes omniscient, and relates events and thoughts to which he couldn't possibly have had access . This may indeed be the result of the fact that this novel was serialized, as was the case with most of Dicken's novels, for instance. Perhaps D just lost track of the narrative, or perhaps there was some unexplained purpose behind it, but this is the primary criterion I have for placing this as D's least successful major novel. Despite this flaw, I would still rank this as a &quot;great&quot; work, for it perfectly captures the Russian dilemma of the era depicted, much better, in fact, than D's nemesis, Tugenev, achieved in Fathers and Sons (though his was no minor accomplishment either).	2000-10-02
US	50747141	R2QOILTV6HWZ9K	0140231730	660889022	The White Hotel	Books	5	106	114	N	N	If Schlienk Could Write this Well and Oprah had Reviewed it	I could throw around superlatives and they would not have much impact. Too many reviews are written about mediocre books that one would think them, from the reviewers reaction,  modern masterpieces. &quot;Flawlessly-rendered scenes of incomparably lyrical, powerful, acute, seamless, ineffable, gorgeous, unassailable, tender, dynamic, lush, titillating, cerebral, divine, a  libidinous, self-revelatory paean to the inexpressible in art and life that packs an emotional wallop!,&quot; or some such phrase.<br />  Sometimes a person just has to come right out and say  &quot;This one grabbed me by the rear,&quot; and let it go at that. This is a book that really has to be experienced first-hand. My only word of advice is not to give up on the book too soon. It's absolutely unclear in the first 40 or 50 pages where Thomas is taking you and he doesn't present too promising a train ride at that stage. Settle in for the journey. Look out the window and watch as the landscape starts becoming more recognizable. The landmarks with which you thought you were earlier familiar, start  revealing themselves in entirely new patterns. For this is a novel about revelation, more than anything else. Readers just have to trust that &quot;all will be revealed&quot; by novel's end, and it is, magnificently.<br />  Thomas performs a near-miraculous feat in this novel. Reading The White Hotel is akin to looking through a an extremely high-powered telescope and what at first looks likes fuzzy, indiscreet blurs, become unbelievably colorful and complex nebulae and galaxies as the instrument's focus is adjusted. The book begins with a long poem, full of erotic imagery and near-incoherent description, that we are startled to learn is written by a woman. Following this is a prose version of the story that we learn is written by a young woman who is a semi-successful Opera-singer who comes to Sigmund Freud for analysis as she suffers from acute psychosomatic pains in her left breast and her womb. She will become the Frau Anna G. of Freud's famous case-study (Freud's &quot;Wolfman&quot; also appears as a peripheral character in the novel). Thomas lets us in on Freud's analysis, as well as his ambiguous feelings towards his patient. At several stages, Freud is ready to throw up his hands and tell her that he won't continue his treatment as he feels she is not forthcoming enough to make any real progress. He always relents, however, because he senses that &quot;Lisa&quot; (the Opera-singers real name) has enough redeeming attributes to warrant his time.<br />  As the novel progresses, we learn more and more about Lisa's past and the seminal childhood incident (occurring when she is 3-years-old and vacationing with her parents in Odessa) that estranged her from her mother, and more particularly, from her father. This will be the central motif of the novel as well as Lisa's Cassandra-like ability to see the future through her dreams and her imaginative powers. If this begins to strike you as psychological clap-trap, rest assured it isn't. The novel at no point devolves into psycho-babble or pretentiousness. Everything in the novel, we come to learn, is there for a reason. There is absolutely nothing amateurish about the master-plan and the sublime architecture that Thomas erects (no Freudian pun intended). This is as carefully-constructed a novel as anything I've ever read.<br />  I am certainly not going to spoil the read for anyone by giving away the novel's ending, but suffice it to say that it's as powerful as anything-written in the past 30 years, at minimum. The only drawback to this book is that I didn't give it enough of a chance on first-encounter. Hopefully, that won't be the case with those reading this review.omb. She will become the Frau Anna G. of Freud's famous case-study (Freud's &quot;Wolfman&quot; also appears as a peripheral character in the novel). Thomas lets us in on Freud's analysis, as well as his ambiguous feelings towards his patient. At several stages, Freud is ready to throw up his hands and tell her that he won't continue his treatment as he feels she is not forthcoming enough to make any real progress. He always relents, however, because he senses that &quot;Lisa&quot; (the Opera-singers real name) has enough redeeming attributes to warrant his time. <br />    As the novel progresses, we learn more and more about Lisa's past and the seminal childhood incident (occurring when she is 3-years-old and vacationing with her parents in Odessa) that estranged her from her mother, and more particularly, from her father. This will be the central motif of the novel as well as Lisa's Cassandra-like ability to see the future through her dreams and her imaginative powers. If this begins to strike you as psychological clap-trap, rest assured it isn't. The novel at no point devolves into psycho-babble or pretentiousness. Everything in the novel, we come to learn, is there for a reason. There is absolutely nothing amateurish about the master-plan and the sublime architecture that Thomas erects (no Freudian pun intended). This is as carefully-constructed a novel as anything I've ever read. <br />     I am certainly not going to spoil the read for anyone by giving away the novel's ending, but suffice it to say that it's as powerful as anything-written in the past 30 years, at minimum. The only drawback to this book is that I didn't give it enough of a chance on first-encounter. Hopefully, that won't be the case with those reading this review.	2000-09-28
US	50747141	ROWNIJFS5P05I	0195121791	36639274	A History of Russia	Books	5	86	97	N	N	A Great Overview	For those interested in Russia and its past, this is not a bad place to start. It is as comprehensive as a 600 page volume can be. I read the  Fourth Edition, so am glad to hear that it has been updated at least to the  Gorbochov era. Riasanovsky is particularly adroit at representing early  Russian history, with vivid accounts of the numerous invasions (Mongols,  Vikings, Tatars, Teutons, etc.). After reading this book, one cannot help  but understand the national paranoia and xenophobia that has been so much a  part of Russian policy and posture throughout so much of its history. It  also becomes clearer why Russia has historically needed a central  &quot;father&quot; or &quot;mother&quot; figure to guide it through its  tumultuous periods.<br />  As to a reader's criticism, Riasanovsky is indeed  somewhat biased, but certainly no more than the typical American historian  writing about US History. He gives more than equal blame, for instance, to  Nicholas II for getting his country involved in the Crimean War. He  certainly never acts as an apologist for any of the Russian rulers at any  stage, though his admiration for Peter the Great and Catherine can't be  denied.<br />  Poles, Ukranians, Lithuanians, etc. are not going to be won  over by this book, but it is to the author's credit that the reader  understands why they wont be. But winning anyone's approval is hardly  Riasnovsky's object. He's primarily trying to tell the story of a people,  and he succeeds on that level, quite brilliantly. The story he tells is  complex and fascinating, to say the least. So many colorful and  unforgettable characters advanced across Russia's historical stage, that  any other country would be hard put to come up with such a cast or a saga.	2000-09-20
US	50747141	R16DRWNIEXFDR5	0140431985	474322786	The Private Memoirs and Confessions of a Justified Sinner (English Library)	Books	5	65	67	N	Y	A Strange Case Indeed	Hogg's novel is about 150 years ahead of its time. Published in 1824, the  work has everything readers of post-modern novels could ask for, including  clustered narratives, self-reflexive point-of-view, unreliable narrators,  unsympathetic-protagonist,  etc.  Hogg is engaging in a highly playful  exercise, yet at the same time the novel can be read as an entirely  chilling depiction of what may happen to the human psyche when it is given  absolutely free-reign.  The story takes place in Scotland in the early  18th century, a time of political and religious foment. It chiefly concerns  the religious &quot;progress&quot; of  Robert Wingham. Robert's mother is a  religious enthusiast who has left the household of her husband, George  Colwan, laird of Dalcastle, because he does not meet her stringent  standards of pious behavior. Before she leaves, she delivers a son, whom  Colwan names after him and names him his sole heir. A year after she has  left she delivers another son, Robert, whom the editor-narrator who first  tells the story is too polite to say is illegitimate, but it's evident by  all appearances and intimations that Robert is the son of Lady Colwan and  the Reverend Wringhim, a dour, intolerant, &quot;self-conceited  pedagogue,&quot; who is the polar opposite of the easy-going laird.  Reverend Wingham undertakes the instruction of young Robert and eventually  adopts him.  Robert, like his father, is a cold fish, who abhors the  presence of women and anything else that he thinks will lead him to sin.  Young George, on the other hand is naturally open and fun-loving, engaging  in the &quot;normal&quot; activities young men of the time preferred. This  attitude piques the ire of Robert, who sees any activity that is not  directly related to religion as frivolous. He starts showing up uninvited  whenever and wherever George and his friends get together. When they try to  play tennis, Robert stands in George's way and interferes with the game.  The same thing happens when they play a rugby-like game on a field outside  Edinburgh. Even after George loses patience and punches Robert , the  younger brother  keeps on insinuating himself, uninvited, every time George  and his friends meet. When the Reverend Wingham learns that his precious  boy has been roughed up, he incites his conservative faction to retaliate  against the liberals with which George and his friends are in league. A  full scale riot ensues, reminiscent of the opening scene of Romeo and  Juliet.  Neither the editor nor Wingham ever give full assent to  the fantastic elements in the story.  Events are depicted in as realistic  a light as possible, which lends weight to the storyline and keeps things  from drifting off into never-never land.<br />  Everything about this  novel &quot;works.&quot; The editor's framing narrative subverts Wingham's  &quot;confession&quot; narrative at just the right points, so the  subversion actually adds to the solidity and texture of the work as a whole  and adds to its plausibility. The comic characters are wonderfully depicted  (including Hogg himself, who puts in an appearance as an unhelpful clod  who's too busy observing sheep at a local fair to assist the editor and his  party when they want to dig up Wingham's grave). Wingham's descent into  fanaticism and his subsequent psychological disintegration is handled as  well as it possibly could be. It is also a perfectly drawn cautionary tale  about the pitfalls of antinomian religious beliefs. Hogg describes for the  reader a splendid representation of just where the path of predestination  can lead a susceptible mind. That's where the comparison's to Crime and  Punishment evolve. Wringhim, like Roskolnikov, considers himself above the  common rung of humanity. Unlike Rodyan, however, Robert never does discover  the full import of his megalomaniacal doctrine until it is entirely too  late.  Readers might be interested to note that Hogg's novel had  a direct influence on Stephenson' s Jekyll and Hyde and on Wilde's Picture  of Dorian Gray. Hogg was considered by his contemporaries to be something  of a rustic genius, and the poetic successor to Robert Burns. He was known  as the Ettrick Shepherd, because he did earn his livelihood from raising  sheep and was entirely self taught. He was a friend of Sir Walter Scott.  He's still highly revered in his home country. If more readers become  familiar with this one-of-a-kind book, he will be revered more universally.  It really is that brilliant a novel.ovel had  a direct influence on Stephenson' s Jekyll and Hyde and on Wilde's Picture  of Dorian Gray. Hogg was considered by his contemporaries to be something  of a rustic genius, and the poetic successor to Robert Burns. He was known  as the Ettrick Shepherd, because he did earn his livelihood from raising  sheep and was entirely self taught. He was a friend of Sir Walter Scott.  He's still highly revered in his home country. If more readers become  familiar with this one-of-a-kind book, he will be revered more universally.  It really is that brilliant a novel.	2000-09-13
US	50747141	R834CM8RTPNT0	038531521X	736592830	Meditations in Green	Books	5	25	36	N	N	five star general	The fact that this book is receiving so little attention encourages me to  start a ten-page rant, but as that will never be reproduced, let me just  say that it's an absolute travesty that this author is being essentially  neglected.<br />  Any comparison to Mailer or Vonnegut or O'Brien is  absolutely superfluous. This is a unique American voice, a John the Babtist  crying in the wilderness and feeding on locusts, but the blind will never  hear. This is an Artist in the strictest sense who moves and shapes print  in ways that others cannnot hope to emulate. I have no reservations in  raising his standard in whatever rung of hell we find ourselves in at  present. This is the real deal, people. Put away your childish things and  read the message of a true modern prophet, crying from the confines of  Hades, urging us to at least look closely at ourselves, even if it drives  us mad.	2000-09-12
US	50747141	R2YQA66SJOI5MW	0312187149	310643527	Enemy of God (The Arthur Books #2)	Books	5	36	41	N	N	An Excellent Journey to 5th Century Britain	This is my first encounter with Richard Cornwell. It has definitely piqued  my interest to read the other two volumes in the trilogy and to investigate  other books by this author.<br />  If you are familiar with Grail literature  and with such classics as Sir Gawain and the Green Knight, Le Morte  d'Arthur, etc., you will have certain preconceptions about the major  characters that are here transmorgrified by Cornwell. The chivalrous Arthur  is transformed into a more human, too-trusting, well-meaning leader of a  tribe. Guenivere is a scheming, conceited megalomaniac, who mellows  somewhat as the story progesses. The narrator's (Derfel's) harshest  judgment is reserved for Lancelot. He is definitely not the same  Lancelot-du-lac that we have come to know from Mallory. He's more like the  5th century version of a matinee idol. He's all image, no substance. He's  not someone to be counted on in the heat of battle. Merlin is a rascally  magus whose main concern lies in stemming the tide of Cristianity that he  views as an invasion of the old order. Cornwell is obviously making  judgement calls here, but he's not doing it purely for the sake of novelty.  This is a thoroughly-researched, as well as an eminently well-written work.<br />  Tolkien fans who have been turned-off by the pale imitators that have  attempted to emulate the master's style will no doubt find many parallels  in Cornwell. That's not to imply that Cornwell is imitative by any means.  He just handles prose almost as adroitly as his predecessor. If there were  a worthy Tolkien successor writing today, though in a slightly different  genre, it would have to be Cornwell. Cornwell has created a truly heroic  saga, and has left this reader looking forward eagerly to the other two  volumes in the trilogy. Enemy of God is definitely several cuts above the  mass of historical fiction being churned out today. The man can write!	2000-09-08
US	50747141	RBRGRQ1B04LZT	1565111346	718509913	Pepys' Diary (Classic, HighBridge)	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Entertaining and Informative	Anyone wishing to know what it was like to live in Restoration London  should go to the primary source, Samuel Pepys (pronounced  &quot;Peeps&quot;). He is to 17th century England what Boswell was in the  next century, a marvelously candid interpreter of customs, manners and  mores in a less-than-gilded age. Pepys is perhaps the most conversational  and engaging diarist that has ever written. He reveals himself intimately,  warts and all, recording personal, city, court and national history in a  journal that was never meant to be seen by the public at-large. Rousseau,  in his Confessions, professed to tell the truth about himself. Pepys  actually does. Added to this is the fact that the period dealt with is one  of the most fascinating in English history, full of court intrigues,  pivotal naval battles, the Great Fire, plague, etc., one comes away with an  appreciation for the era as well as the man.<br />  Branaugh is the  perfect vehicle for introducing listeners to this idiosyncratic author. No  living actor has as great a command of spoken English. He is the successor  to Gielgud, Olivier, Guiness, Richardson, Redgrave, etc. This is an  abridged version, but still runs to well over six hours, and not a minute  feels as if it's wasted. Pepys, as interpreted by Branaugh, is excellent  company, whether you are on a long road-trip in your car or sitting beside  the fire on a winter night.	2000-09-07
US	50747141	R121PUAQV6HF0A	0140442006	637700144	Chronicles	Books	5	68	69	N	N	The Great French Chronicler	Jean Froissart (1337-1410) was a contemporary of Chaucer's (it is likely that they met on several occasions, but there is no evidence they were  friends. Chaucer is often cited as the leading poet of the 14th Century and  Froissart its ranking historian.  Geoffry Brereton does an excellent  job of rendering an abridged translation of Froissart's multi-volume work.  Using the same method employed in  the one-volume Penguin edition of Gibbon  , many sections of the original text, covering relatively minor events and  battles, are rendered in precis form. What we get therefor, is essentially  &quot;the best&quot; of Froissart. Brereton also does a good job of  providing just the right amount of footnotes and warns the reader when  Froissart's account veers from more reliable sources. Froissart was  gathering most of his information second-hand, primarily from noblemen of  the era who were witnesses to the events, but whose viewpoints may have  been colored to some degree by natural biases, and were sometimes  themselves reporting information from what they had heard, not necessarily  what they had seen.<br />  Froissart delivers a marvelous panorama of a  fascinating era. He tells his story from the perspective of the nobility,  to whose households he attached himself. He traveled from castle to castle,  through several regions of France, Flanders and England, adding to his  chronicles as he went. This was a turbulent period, covering a large  stretch of the Hundred Year War (between France and England primarily). It  begins with the deposition of Edward the II (unforgettably dramatized by  Marlowe) and ends with the deposition of Richard II (likewise, by  Shakespeare). Sandwiched  between these bookends are some of the most  unforgettable scenes in written history. Froissart infuses his descriptions  of major battles (Poitiers, Roosebeke, Otterburn, etc), great tournaments  (Saint-Inglevert) and feasts (the entry of Queen Isabella into Paris) with  great color and panache. What makes the Chronicles so moving, however, is  his treatment of incidents in which humanity is limned in a much dimmer  light. The siege of Calais, for instance, is rendered quite graphically and  one can readily see how the event inspired Rodin's monumental bronze,  &quot;The Burghers of Calais,&quot; depicting the town fathers being led  out of the gates with iron collars fastened around their necks. Edward III,  whom Froissart generally reveres, is cast in a none-too-heroic mold, both  during and immediately after the siege. The Black Prince's desire for  revenge is seen as undeservedly implacable. Finally he is brought around to  reason by the supplications of his Queen.<br /> Equally moving  is Froissart's  account of the Count of Foix' ill-fated relationship with his son and sole  heir.<br /> The trouble starts when the King of Navarre, brother-in-law to the  Count of Foix, renigs on a ransom promise. The Count sends his wife (the  King's sister)to Navarre to collect his money. The King refuses and she is  afraid to return home without it, so she stays on at her brother's court  for several years.  When the Count's son, Gaston,  is about 15, he decides  to visit his mother. He asks her to return home, but when Gaston tells her  it's his request, not the Count's, she remains where she is, still earful  of her husband . Gaston, before returning home, stops to pay his respects  to the King of Navarre. Before Gaston leaves, the King gives him several  gifts to take home with him, the last of which turns out to be a locket  containing poison. After Gaston returns home, the locket is eventually  discovered around his neck and the Count imagines that Gaston meant to  poison him. He has him imprisoned in a tower, where Gaston wastes away and  dies. The story is rendered quite simply and movingly and  comes as close  to Greek Tragedy as any account in medieval literature, calling to mind the  curse upon the House of Atreus.<br />  Also noteworthy are Froissart's  depictions of the two great Peasant Revolts of the era, that of the  Jacquerie, in France and &quot;Wat Tyler's&quot; in England. Of the two,  the Jacquerie created a great deal more damage and put the gentry in mortal  fear of their lives. The English revolt is the result of a much more  spontaneous event, a sudden conflagration ignited by the proletarian  preaching of &quot;a crack-brained priest of Kent, John Ball. Ball was a  firebrand who liked to end his sermons by exhorting the commons to take  what was rightfully theirs.  Eventually, the peasants do haphazardly  organize and march into London, where they make demands on Richard II. They  cause a degree of mayhem, but eventually reach a settlement with Richard,  where after they disperse to their homes and their leaders, John Ball, Jack  Straw and Wat Tyler end up with their heads displayed atop pikes on London  Bridge.<br />  Froissart covers a great deal of ground in his  Chronicles, and again, the Penguin edition offers a fine sampling of the  much larger work. If you are at all interested in medieval literature or  history, this is a &quot;must&quot; read. One cautionary note. Froissart  does go on at some length when it comes to lists of personages who were at  a particular event. It's apparent he doesn't want to offend anyone by  leaving them out (not forgetting that many of the people he was writing  about were still alive at the time). The roll-calls themselves, however,  have a certain charm and poetic quality to them. All in all, there's very  little in this book not to recommend. Besides being colorful and  informative, it's a grand read.are Froissart's  depictions of the two great Peasant Revolts of the era, that of the  Jacquerie, in France and &quot;Wat Tyler's&quot; in England. Of the two,  the Jacquerie created a great deal more damage and put the gentry in mortal  fear of their lives. The English revolt is the result of a much more  spontaneous event, a sudden conflagration ignited by the proletarian  preaching of &quot;a crack-brained priest of Kent, John Ball. Ball was a  firebrand who liked to end his sermons by exhorting the commons to take  what was rightfully theirs.  Eventually, the peasants do haphazardly  organize and march into London, where they make demands on Richard II. They  cause a degree of mayhem, but eventually reach a settlement with Richard,  where after they disperse to their homes and their leaders, John Ball, Jack  Straw and Wat Tyler end up with their heads displayed atop pikes on London  Bridge. <br />       Froissart covers a great deal of ground in his  Chronicles, and again, the Penguin edition offers a fine sampling of the  much larger work. If you are at all interested in medieval literature or  history, this is a &quot;must&quot; read. One cautionary note. Froissart  does go on at some length when it comes to lists of personages who were at  a particular event. It's apparent he doesn't want to offend anyone by  leaving them out (not forgetting that many of the people he was writing  about were still alive at the time). The roll-calls themselves, however,  have a certain charm and poetic quality to them. All in all, there's very  little in this book not to recommend. Besides being colorful and  informative, it's a grand read.	2000-08-26
US	50747141	R3OZIC7DIC1X39	0844217581	73897934	Madame Bovary	Books	5	119	124	N	N	The Hope Diamond of Novels	Making a statement like Madame Bovary is the &quot;greatest&quot; novel ever written would be superfluous. It could be argued that it is the most  perfectly written novel in the history of letters and that in creating it,  Flaubert mastered the genre. What can't be argued is that it is one of the  most influential novels ever written. It changed the face of literature as  no other novel has, and has been appreciated and acknowledged by virtually  every important novelist who was either Flaubert's contemporary or who came  after him.<br />  It's interesting to see the range in opinion that still  surrounds this novel. Some of the Readers here at Amazon are morally  affronted by the novel's central character, viewing her as something  sinister and &quot;unlikeable,&quot; and panning the novel for this reason.  Such a reaction recalls the negative reviews Bovary engendered soon after  its initial publication. It was attacked by many of the authorities of  French literature at the time for being ugly and perverse, and for the  impression that the novel presented no properly moral frame. These readers  didn't &quot;like&quot; Emma much either, and they took their dislike out  on her creator.<br />  But this is one of the factors making Madame Bovary  &quot;modern&quot;. One of the hallmarks of modern novels is that they  often portray unsympathetic characters, and Emma certainly falls into this  category. How can we as readers &quot;like&quot; a woman who elbows her  toddler daughter away from her so forcefully that the child &quot;fell  against the chest of drawers, and cut her cheek on the brass  curtain-holder.&quot; After this pernicious behavior, Emma has a few brief  moments of self-castigation and maybe even remorse, but very soon is struck  by &quot;what an ugly child&quot; Berthe is. Emma's self-centeredness  borders on solipsism. For readers looking for maternal instincts in their  female characters or for a depiction of a devoted wife, they had better  turn to Pearl S. Buck and The Good Earth, perhaps, rather than to Flaubert.<br />  Much has been made of Flaubert's attempts to remove himself from the  narrative, that he was searching for some sort of ultimate objectivity. His  narrative technique is much more complex than that, however. It is his  employment of a shifting narrative, sometimes objective, sometimes  subjective, that again is an indicator of the novel's modernity. At times  the narrator is merely reporting events or is involved in providing  descriptive details. Yet often the authorial voice makes rather plain how  the reader is to look at Emma and her plebeian persona. When she finally  succumbs to Rodolphe and thinks she is truly in love, Flaubert becomes  downright cynical: &quot; `I've a lover, a lover,' she said to herself  again and again, revelling in the thought as if she had attained a second  puberty. At last she would know the delights of love, the feverish joys of  which she had despaired. She was entering a marvelous world where all was  passion, ecstasy, delirium.&quot;<br />  Emma is a neurasthenic, in the  modern sense, but in the 19th century she would have been said to suffer  from hysteria, a mental condition diagnosed primarily in women. When her  lovers leave her, she has what amounts to nervous breakdowns. After  Rodolphe leaves her she makes herself so sick that she comes near death.  Her imagination is much too powerful and too impressionable for her own  good. This is part of the reason for Flaubert's oft-repeated quote,  &quot;Bovary, c'est moi.&quot; Flaubert was a neurasthenic as well and  could easily work himself into a swoon as a result of his imaginative  flights. There is even conjecture that he may have been, like Dostoevsky,  an epileptic, and it is further intimated that this disorder was brought on  by nerves, though this may be dubious, medically speaking.<br />  Madame  Bovary is not flawless, but it comes awfully close. It is one of the great  controlled experimentsin the fiction of any era. It even anticipates  cinematic technique in many instances, but particularly in the scene at the  Agricultural Fair. Note how Flaubert juxtaposes the utterly mundane  activities and speeches occurring in the town square with Rodolphe's  equally inane seduction of Emma in the empty Council Chamber above the  square:<br />&quot;He took her hand and she did not withdraw  it.&quot;<br />&quot;`General Prize!' cried the Chairman.'&quot;<br />&quot;`Just  now, for instance, when I came to call on you...'&quot;<br />&quot;Monsieur  Bizet of Quincampoix.&quot;<br />&quot;`...how could I know that I should  escort you here?'&quot;<br />&quot;Seventy francs!&quot;<br />&quot;`And I've  stayed with you, because I couldn't tear myself away, though I've tried a  hundred times.'&quot;<br />&quot;Manure!&quot;<br />This is representative  Flaubert. With a few deft strokes, he lays the whole absurdity of both the  seduction and the provincial's activities bare.<br />If you have read this  book previously and have come away feeling demoralized and even angered,  please try reading it again, this time concentrating on the richness of its  metaphors, Flaubert's mastery of foreshadowing, symbolism and description.  Maybe you will come away with your viewpoint changed. For those who have  not yet read this classic of classics, I know that if your mind remains  open, you will come away with an appreciation for this master-novelist and  for this monumental work.led experiments in the fiction of any era. It even anticipates  cinematic technique in many instances, but particularly in the scene at the  Agricultural Fair. Note how Flaubert juxtaposes the utterly mundane  activities and speeches occurring in the town square with Rodolphe's  equally inane seduction of Emma in the empty Council Chamber above the  square: <br />&quot;He took her hand and she did not withdraw  it.&quot;<br />&quot;`General Prize!' cried the Chairman.'&quot;<br />&quot;`Just  now, for instance, when I came to call on you...'&quot;<br />&quot;Monsieur  Bizet of Quincampoix.&quot;<br />&quot;`...how could I know that I should  escort you here?'&quot;<br />&quot;Seventy francs!&quot;<br />&quot;`And I've  stayed with you, because I couldn't tear myself away, though I've tried a  hundred times.'&quot;<br />&quot;Manure!&quot;<br />This is representative  Flaubert. With a few deft strokes, he lays the whole absurdity of both the  seduction and the provincial's activities bare. <br />If you have read this  book previously and have come away feeling demoralized and even angered,  please try reading it again, this time concentrating on the richness of its  metaphors, Flaubert's mastery of foreshadowing, symbolism and description.  Maybe you will come away with your viewpoint changed. For those who have  not yet read this classic of classics, I know that if your mind remains  open, you will come away with an appreciation for this master-novelist and  for this monumental work.	2000-08-17
US	50747141	R1Q5W3QLQ121B0	0345349571	162225088	A Distant Mirror:  The Calamitous 14th Century	Books	5	148	154	N	N	The Most Readable Volume on the Subject	Barbara Tuchman is a great guide for readers beginning their voyage into medieval history. This is also a marvellous period, in terms of action,  romance and great events, with which to begin such a journey.<br />  I would  also urge readers who are spurred on to further investigation, to read the  seminal text from which much of Tuchman's work is based, the Chronicles of  Jean Froissart. Froissart was one of the great raconteurs of any age. He  was basically the Herodotus and Homer of his era.<br />  The Amazon reviewer  might have noted that Enguerrand's disposition towards the peasants under  him was dictated to him  by one of the truly cataclysmic events of the era.  The uprising of the Jacquerie created a hitherto unknown fear and unease on  the part of the aristocratic order of the time, to such a degree that  reprisals and attitudes were indeed shaped for generations to come. But one  must read Froissart to reach a true appreciation of the scope and social  repercussions of that horrifying event. The Jaquerie were bent on total  devestation of the upper classes and carried out their revolution in  countless acts of rape, murder, infanticide and any other mayhem they could  engender. Enguerrand was seen as an avenging Angel by his contemporaries.  The lords, barons and knights were not merely defending their order, but  their lives.<br />  This is Tuchman's finest accomplishment, in terms of  rendering historical drama and in the cohesive quality of the details she  marshals to illustrate her story. It really was not just a calamitous, but  quite a remarkable century in terms of the wars that were fought, the  leaders of France and England that fought them and the hardships the nobles  and the commons all endured. It definitely was not an era for the timid or  the weak either in body or in spirit. I guarantee that if you read this  work, which is as exciting as any novel, you will want to read the  chronicles as well.	2000-08-15
US	50747141	R2TNSKV1NQYIIZ	086527312X	639412789	The Temptation of st Anthony (English and French Edition)	Books	5	53	56	N	N	A  Metatext	This is a work that should not be neglected by those interested in  Flaubert or by lovers of French Literature. It's format resembles an  old-fashioned cyclorama, which was basically a revolving canvas, portraying  various interpretive images to an audience that would be seated in the  middle of a room. Or it may recall the same period's &quot;magic  lantern&quot; which would produce a similar effect, projecting a series of  images on a flat wall, the precursor of modern cinema.<br />Flaubert ushered  in an entirely new sensibility to the world of letters. He reinvented the  concept of the literary artist as word-and world shaper. The word is the  world and vice-versa. No writer ever engaged in such a Herculean struggle  to shape every word, every sentence, every image, every assonance or  consonance to perfectly conform to his intention.<br />  Flaubert engaged in  a kind of ascetisism his entire adult life, which is hardly news, but is  central to an understanding of this work and to his attraction towards St.  Anthony for a protagonist. Flaubert was for many years a kind of hermit in  his study at Croisset, where he retired to his study to read books and  write novels. He had contact with his mother and adopted niece and wrote  letters to a mistress (Louise Collet, and later to George Sand) along with  a few male friends. He would make brief sojourns into Paris, but for the  most part, stayed to himself in his provincial hideaway. What he dreamt of  there, besides his most famous works (Madame Bovary and L'Education  Sentimentale) were reveries such as this novel and Salammbo, another book  set in the Near-East and equally evocative in terms of his treatment of  that  region's sensual and Byzantine richness.<br />  &quot;The  Temptation&quot; sparkles with some of Flaubert's most carefully and  lovingly constructed imagery. It is the author's own homage to the  fertility of his imagination. He never fathered a child literally that we  know of, but this work and Salammbo were his ways of saying that he was  fertile in all other respects. Each passing personage or creature is a seed  sewn by this father of imagery.<br />  One of the most senseless and  ill-informed utterances in the annals of criticism is Proust's comment that  Flaubert never created one memorable metaphor. Flaubert's entire cannon is  one vast metaphor. They are evident in every sentence and every passage of  every novel he ever wrote. This is particularly true in this work, as any  informed reader will no doubt conclude after reading it.<br />  One other  area of recommendation extends to students of Gnosticism. Flaubert  encapsulates much of the central theories of the early Gnostic Fathers and  Apostles in a few well-delineated characterisations and brush strokes. I  would also recommend the Penguin edition, edited and translated by Kitty  Mrosovsky, for her introduction and notes. The only drawback I have with  her is that she portrays Henry James as denigrating Flaubert's work, where  in fact he generally effusively praises it. To those who can read it in its  original text, I can only say I envy you and wish I were there.d Salammbo were his ways of saying that he was  fertile in all other respects. Each passing personage or creature is a seed  sewn by this father of imagery. <br />  One of the most senseless and  ill-informed utterances in the annals of criticism is Proust's comment that  Flaubert never created one memorable metaphor. Flaubert's entire cannon is  one vast metaphor. They are evident in every sentence and every passage of  every novel he ever wrote. This is particularly true in this work, as any  informed reader will no doubt conclude after reading it. <br />   One other  area of recommendation extends to students of Gnosticism. Flaubert  encapsulates much of the central theories of the early Gnostic Fathers and  Apostles in a few well-delineated characterisations and brush strokes. I  would also recommend the Penguin edition, edited and translated by Kitty  Mrosovsky, for her introduction and notes. The only drawback I have with  her is that she portrays Henry James as denigrating Flaubert's work, where  in fact he generally effusively praises it. To those who can read it in its  original text, I can only say I envy you and wish I were there.	2000-08-15
US	50747141	R19KW8RZNMRXLD	088001301X	169118971	Their Heads Are Green Their Hands Are Blue	Books	5	43	45	N	N	The Anti-Travelogue	This is a peculiar work, and one which really doesn't fit neatly into any  generic niche. In some respects it recalls travel journals written by  literary men in the past, such as Sterne's (Sentimental Journey Through  France and Italy, Goethe's (Italian Journey)  or Voltaire's (Letters from  England) , as it combines descriptive details about particular regions with  a modicum of philosophizing and social critique.<br />  The first two pieces  in the book deal with Sri Lanka (known in the fifties when this book was  written as Ceylon). Bowles lived in Weligma, South Ceylon from 1952 to  1959. A black-and-white photo (all the pictures acompanying the text or  B&amp;W) depicts the incredibly lush vista he enjoyed from his veranda. The  beauty of the place is largely counterbalanced by Bowles' descriptions of  the intolerable heat and humidity of the region, which combined with the  incessant swarms of mosquitoes, made a good night's sleep about impossible.  This would be a recurring motif throughout the reports. Finding lodging and  adequate sleeping arrangements  were constant aggravations  in the  out-of-the way environs Bowles visits.<br />  When Bowles writes of  out-of-the way destinations, they really are remote in the strictest sense  of the word. He takes the reader to regions that were (and are, for the  most part) seldom visited by western travellers, and there are good reasons  these are not popular tourist spots. Most of the towns don't possess what  any western traveller would think of as a hotel. In practically every town  (and that is a loose description as well) the only place a traveller can  find quarters is at some hovel, where electricity, much less plumbing, is a  rarity.<br />  The reader may ask, why did Bowles choose to visit such  remote habitats? The answer to that lies in his section on the Sahara, in  which he talks about the &quot;Baptism of Solitude,&quot; a motif that is  of great significance in his major novel, The Sheltering Sky. Bowles  describes it here:  &quot;You leave the gate of the fort or the town  behind, pass the camels lying outside, go up into the dunes, or out into  the hard, stony plain and stand awhile, alone. Presently, you will either  shiver and hurry back inside the walls, or you will go on standing there  and let something very peculiar happen to you, something that everyone who  lives there has undergone and which the French call &quot;le bapteme de la  solitude.&quot; It is a unique sensation and has nothing to do with  loneliness, for loneliness presupposes memory. Here, in this wholly mineral  landscape lighted by stars like flares, even memory disappears; nothing is  left but your own breathing and the sound of your heart beating. A strange,  and by no means pleasant, process of reintegration begins inside you, and  you have the choice of fighting against it, and insisting on remaing the  person you have always been, or letting it take its course. For no one who  has stayed in the Sahara for awhile is quite the same as when he  came.&quot;<br />  This quote, which is central to this book, both literally  and figuratively,  is also at the core of Bowles' entire ouvre. He writes  repeatedly of the individual in isolation, but always redefining and  reconfiguring the terms and meaning of &quot;isolation.&quot;<br />I don't  know how much T. H. Lawrence Bowles read, but there are some definite  parallels in the lives of the two men. Both are expatriates (Lawrence from  Britain, Bowles from America) who were committed to and seduced by the  desert, and by the predominately Moslem cultures they interacted with. They  were also equally seduced by hardship and discomfort, actually revelling in  extremely unpleasant conditions, which would repulse and defer most of  their countrymen. I am sure that Lawrence had his initial Baptism of  Solitude shortly after his arrival in the Sahara himself. He even describes  a similar transformation in his description of the desert in his Seven  Pillars of Wisdom.<br />Bowles is an author with whom every serious reader  should become familiar. His prose is uniformly excellent. He has great  descriptive power and captures the nuances of foreign customs and cultures  more than adroitly. This may prove to be a good starting point for those  unfamiliar with his novels or his other works. He was an accomplished  composer as well. He was an Eastern beacon to the Beat Generation. Every  important Beat writer made a sojourn to Tangiers, where Bowles held court  for many years. He also lived a fascinating life in other respects and his  wife, Jane, also wrote an intriguing novel of her own that I would likewise  recommend.s Seven  Pillars of Wisdom. <br />Bowles is an author with whom every serious reader  should become familiar. His prose is uniformly excellent. He has great  descriptive power and captures the nuances of foreign customs and cultures  more than adroitly. This may prove to be a good starting point for those  unfamiliar with his novels or his other works. He was an accomplished  composer as well. He was an Eastern beacon to the Beat Generation. Every  important Beat writer made a sojourn to Tangiers, where Bowles held court  for many years. He also lived a fascinating life in other respects and his  wife, Jane, also wrote an intriguing novel of her own that I would likewise  recommend.	2000-08-14
US	50747141	R1DZQ24TAHVF5U	0671741039	907356964	Swan Song	Books	4	5	11	N	N	Everyone Deserves A Break Once in Awhile	I've always been entertained by McCammon's books. That's all that I expect  from them . Do not look for neatly-plotted, logically planned fiction from  this author. This is escapist fiction at its least pretentious. Some people  read true crime books, others read Lawyer novels and some of us are  addicted to Daniel Steele or Belva Plain. McCammon is my dirty little  secret. I just like him and think he is more entertaining than John Saul or  V.C. Andrews, but not in the same league with Straub or King. If you  require a breather from &quot;serious&quot; literature, you might want to  give this author a try.	2000-08-12
US	50747141	R3SB6EQ3G5JH48	0375708766	343556390	Lincoln: A Novel (The American Chronicle Series)	Books	5	55	70	N	N	Vidal's Finest Hour	Even Gore Vidal can't take this icon down. Though he's done his best to  submarine Washington, Jefferson and Hamilton, among others, he can't  conceal his affection and ardor for our greatest national hero. He sides  with his class on many occasions, primarily as regards Salmon Chase and  William Seward. He treats both figures with even greater esteem than either  of them actually merited.  The secondary plot involving Chase and his  daughter are particularly telling regarding Vidal's true feelings about  class and ancestry. He is and always will be a snob, when it comes to  family ties.<br />Yet despite the fact that his protagonist is a social  parvenue and a political bumpkin in many respects, Lincoln emerges as truly  three-dimensional and heroic in this novel, just as he has in history in  general. There are so many Lincoln biographies out there that I almost have  a problem in highlighting this one; however it really is Vidal's most  earnest, least cynical work; as such it deserves and earns high praise.	2000-08-10
US	50747141	R27GRIEG3E6E6W	014018998X	552921765	The Souls of Black Folk (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	22	23	N	N	The Black Emerson	If you are unaquainted with this book or with this author, you should  remedy the situation immediately. In terms of eloquence, clear and ringing  prose, descriptive power and any other quality that seperates great writers  from mediocre ones, Dubois stands in the first rank. If Afro-Americans had  had access to this book on a mass scale, there would have been a third real  revolution in this country (I include the Civil War, obviously). This is  the voice of suffering, but also of great ideas and ironclad arguement. It  is also an incitement and very much an indictment, against racial  boundaries that have plagued this nation since its inception. Dubois was  and is one of the most powerful voices this country has ever produced. My  jaw dropped on numerous occasions when first reading this text. He conveyed  better than any other author, and there have been many great ones (Baldwin,  Morrison, Wright, etc.) what it means to be &quot;seperate, but  equal.&quot; He is never an apologist. He at all moments maintains the  dignity of his race. I really prefer in all aspects his demaeanor to Marcus  Garvey's, even though that author was a more prominent &quot;player.&quot;  For modern revisionists (like Jane Smiley)who think that &quot;Uncle Tom's  Cabin&quot; was &quot;great literature,&quot; I would recommend that they  read this text and then decide. One voice is authentic, the other sorely  disingenuous, and even, historically, counter-productive.	2000-08-10
US	50747141	RP01UUMUKIX8D	0679760806	778351106	The Master and Margarita	Books	5	151	168	N	N	There Are Not Enough Stars to Do It Justice	This novel belongs in its own category, for there has never been another  like it. A really great novel is like a best friend. We love to see them  praised and are hurt when they are attacked. I am elated to see that so  many Amazon readers share my love for this great work. I have been reticent  to write a critique, as I really can't do it justice. Words are too meager  a medium to convey my true response to this masterpiece. Suffice it to say  that this has long been my first recommendation whenever anyone approached  me about books I most enjoyed.  Now with the appearance of Diana  Burgin's and Katherine O'Connor's superb translation, I can recommend it  even more unreservedly. I've read the Ginsburg and Glenny translations, as  well, and have to agree with the other reviewers here who take exception to  them. I haven't read the Pevear and Volokhonsky translation, but haven't  been too excited by their work with Dostoevsky, so will probably skip it. I  envy those who can read Bulgakov and other Russian masters in the original  language, but I make do with finding the best translation I can and pay  heed to what native speakers have to say about the various translations. I  haven't heard any negatives about Burgin's and O'Connor's efforts. The  volume also contains some useful annotation, particularly helpful if you  are unfamiliar with the era and with the layout of Moscow. There are also  some great Bulgakov sights on the net that have detailed maps of  30's-era  Moscow, for those interested in getting a clearer mental picture of the  sites Bulgakov describes (Patriarchs Pond, The Aryat, etc.).  As far as  placing Bulgakov in the Pantheon of Russian novelists, this novel alone  propels him to the front ranks. Some of his other works, most notably Heart  of a Dog and White Guard  have not been adequately translated yet, so it  is difficult to assess them. If you are a Pasternak fan (which I am not)  you will probably enjoy White Guard, however. It is not satire, though,  which in my estimation is Bulgakov's strong suit. Nor is there much humor  there (at which he also excels in M&amp;M). In fact I would be hard-pressed  to come up with any other work in any literature that is as scathingly  humorous and dead-on-target satirical as M&amp;M. Burgess and Vonnegut are  rungs below Bulgakov in either category. Bulgakov skewers every Moscow  bureaucrat and literary hack (unfortunately in the Stalinist era most of  those who maintained positions of authority in literary circles were  obsequious no-talents who mouthed party-line propaganda) that ever did him  harm (and these were legion). Yet there is not an ounce of vitriol involved  in the skewering, which is remarkable in itself. Bulgakov had to be one of  the most good-natured people ever to pick up a pen. That is the overall  impression one gleans from the accounts of his contemporaries and it is  evident throughout this book. Yes, stupid people behave stupidly and  predictably<br />(Annushka is Annushka ! ) but in most cases the divine forces  at work here let them off the hook.  If you haven't been convinced by all  these testimonials to give this novel a try, I am probably wasting space  here anyway. This novel is the reason I go on reading. I hope someday to  come across another like it. There aren't enough stars in the Amazon galaxy  to do it justice.satire, though,  which in my estimation is Bulgakov's strong suit. Nor is there much humor  there (at which he also excels in M&amp;M). In fact I would be hard-pressed  to come up with any other work in any literature that is as scathingly  humorous and dead-on-target satirical as M&amp;M. Burgess and Vonnegut are  rungs below Bulgakov in either category. Bulgakov skewers every Moscow  bureaucrat and literary hack (unfortunately in the Stalinist era most of  those who maintained positions of authority in literary circles were  obsequious no-talents who mouthed party-line propaganda) that ever did him  harm (and these were legion). Yet there is not an ounce of vitriol involved  in the skewering, which is remarkable in itself. Bulgakov had to be one of  the most good-natured people ever to pick up a pen. That is the overall  impression one gleans from the accounts of his contemporaries and it is  evident throughout this book. Yes, stupid people behave stupidly and  predictably<br />(Annushka is Annushka ! ) but in most cases the divine forces  at work here let them off the hook.  If you haven't been convinced by all  these testimonials to give this novel a try, I am probably wasting space  here anyway. This novel is the reason I go on reading. I hope someday to  come across another like it. There aren't enough stars in the Amazon galaxy  to do it justice.	2000-08-10
US	50747141	R3GFC7WDI13GMU	0140422153	132433336	The Complete Poems (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	23	26	N	N	Sui Generis	I don't know upon what planet this poet was born, but it certainly wasn't earth. Blake is the ultimate Gnostic, the ascendent correspondent, the  bringer of truth from regions we have no knowledge of. The core of his  philosophy can be summed up in his assertion in &quot;The Marriage of  Heaven and Hell:&quot; Thus men forgot that All deities reside in the human  breast...Isaiah answer'd. I saw no God, nor heard any, in a finite  organical perception; but my senses discover'd the infinite in every thing,  and as I was then perswaded, &amp; remain confirm'd; that the voice of  honest indignation is the voice of God.&quot;<br />Blake is the poet of true  revolution, true Romanticism and true spirit. This is the definitive volume  of his life-work, without, it is true, the illustrations that augmented his  genius. Yet there is no real necessity for etchings here, as the genius of  his poetry will etch its own image in your mind if you are receptive to his  universal symbolism. Blake was the first truly modern poet, prefiguring  Mallarme, D.H. Lawrence, Baudelaire, in particular. He was also a great  mythologyzer, the precursor of Campbell, Frazier, and even Alan Watts in  many respects. The Penguin Edition is not illustrated, it's true, but there  is so much to be mined here that one can easily lose oneself in the  labyrinth of Blake's excavations.<br />Recommended without reservations. A truly paradigm shifting poet and artist. Seek out his illustrative, divinely inspired watercolors, as well. A true visionary, if there ever was one!!<br />BEK	2000-08-06
US	50747141	R1M7W6JEL6E9P2	0300062834	893700844	Creating French Culture: Treasures from the Bibliotheque nationale de France	Books	5	9	9	N	N	For All Francophiles and Literature Lovers	I am a nut about French Literature and History and this volume is one of my prized posessions. Most of the important manuscripts and relics of French Culture, from the 8th century on, are on display in this one volume.  They are all accompanied by insightful and erudite descriptions on the part  of the American and French contributors. It is like being led on a grand  tour through one of the most important cultural repositories of the world  (La Biblioteque nationale). I have been re-reading Froissart's Chronicles  recently and they are magnificently represented as item #39. The volume  also includes splendid maps of French territories from the Carolingian era  to the Napoleonic Empire. These have been particularly helpful to me in my  recent re-reading of Froissart and Joinville &amp; Villehardouin's  Chronicles of the Crusades.  This volume is not inexpensive, but it is  well worth the $ for any bibliophile or literature lover. It is the sort  of book one can spend many enjoyable hours with and can study at leisure,  giving one countless returns on his/her original investment. The  illustrations are uniformily magnificent and the print quality is  excellent. It is the type of book that should remain as a vivid reminder of  what culture truly means for past, present and future generations. My  highest recommendation and my highest commendation for all involved in this  magnificent enterprise.	2000-08-05
US	50747141	R5OZ3TKZ1GPXR	1565121686	874937184	Fay: A Novel	Books	2	23	37	N	N	Redneck Romance, Low-Rent Rendezvous	What more could a good ol' boy want? a fast car, a cold beer, afishin' pole and a seventeen-year-old sweet thang. Give me abreak. This is what passes as interesting reading these days? I'mgoing through a masochistic reading streak, laboring through piles of garbage like this, just to keep up with &quot;reading trends.&quot; I can't believe the number of people who gave this ill conceived, monotonous, utterly simplistic excuse for a novel so many good reviews.  &quot;Fay&quot; is a seventeen-year-old country girl who makes the subjects of blonde jokes look like Steven Hawking. She decides she's had enough of her abusive father (she's fought off his advances but leaves her younger sister behind to fend for herself - Fay walks away from all responsibilities whenever they get to be a nuisance). She is picked up on the side of a highway by Patrolman Sam, who is everything former firefighter Brown wants to be. He's good looking, smooth with the ladies, virile and loves to fish. He and his wife have lost their only daughter, which I guess explains why they haven't had sex in four years. So Sam brings Fay home with him where she can act as surrogate daughter for the still-grieving couple. But we already sense where this is all going to lead, if the red-neck fantasy is to be fulfilled. Amy, Sam's wife, agrees right off the bat to take Fay in and treats her like her lost daughter. Amy is pretty representative of all the female characters in this book. Whereas in reality, a woman might naturally be a bit suspicious about her husband bringing Lolita home, she thinks it's the greatest idea since Hummel figures. She even muses to herself that it would probably be a good thing if Sam (who is in his forties) and Fay had some good ol' sex together. She no longer &quot;services&quot; her husband, as the death of her daughter has taken away her sexual desire and she just spends her free time getting bombed. But then again, everyone in the book spends all their free moments imbibing one spirit after another, all of which Brown lovingly, and minutely chronicles. There are so many different brands and varieties of booze consumed in this book, along with drugs and cigarettes, that it's amazing any of the characters can even think about sex. But, they do, trust me....<br />Brown's style has been described as &quot;minimalist&quot; by one reviewer. That's a stretch, to say the least.  I think the New York Times critic was more accurate, when he referred to the writing as &quot;unimaginative.&quot; This is not a highly-crafted work in any sense. There are so many extraneous details that Brown keeps parading out, one is finally reduced to skimming over whole sections, rather than drown in ennui. The characterizations are absolutely the most shallow one is liable to come across in recent fiction....<br />If you want to be entertained by a much better treatment of a young girl fending for herself in the harshest possible environment, rent a copy of &quot;Freeway,&quot; in which Mare Cunningham plays a Fay-like, uneducated character who refuses to play victim. Leave this low-rent romance alone. I wish I had.e spirit after another, all of which Brown lovingly, and minutely chronicles. There are so many different brands and varieties of booze consumed in this book, along with drugs and cigarettes, that it's amazing any of the characters can even think about sex. But, they do, trust me....<br />Brown's style has been described as &quot;minimalist&quot; by one reviewer. That's a stretch, to say the least.  I think the New York Times critic was more accurate, when he referred to the writing as &quot;unimaginative.&quot; This is not a highly-crafted work in any sense. There are so many extraneous details that Brown keeps parading out, one is finally reduced to skimming over whole sections, rather than drown in ennui. The characterizations are absolutely the most shallow one is liable to come across in recent fiction....<br />If you want to be entertained by a much better treatment of a young girl fending for herself in the harshest possible environment, rent a copy of &quot;Freeway,&quot; in which Mare Cunningham plays a Fay-like, uneducated character who refuses to play victim. Leave this low-rent romance alone. I wish I had.	2000-07-27
US	50747141	R2EGANL8BGRPBP	0517079240	834643365	A Conspiracy of Crowns: The True Story of the Duke of Windsor & the Murder of S ir Harry Oakes	Books	2	12	15	N	N	Unfortunately, the Only Book on the Topic	The murder of Sir Harry Oakes and the subsequent investigation, together with a supreme cast of characters, cries out for some actual literary talent to come to bear on the subject. Unfortunately, very little in the  way of ability is evident here. Sir Harry Oakes was one of the early land  merchants of Nassau and a friend and cohort of various British social  luminaries of the post-WWII-era, including the Duke and Dutchess of  Windsor. What could be a compelling account of his mysterious murder, which  has never been solved to satisfaction to this day, is instead a clumsily  written attempt at conspiracy grasping and groundless guessing on Marigny's  part. The actual writing was no doubt done by Mickey Herskowitz, who has  been paid to ghost-write numerous books. For those who have spent enough  time on the island to be acquainted with its history and legends, this is  the only source I'm aware of for any treatment of the story. That's a  shame.	2000-07-27
US	50747141	R1M040W7RAVO9N	0300018681	140442430	The Complete Poems of John Wilmot, Earl of Rochester	Books	5	27	30	N	N	One of the Great Neglected Ones	The Earl of Rochester lived a life worthy of Tom Jones. He was indeed a deabauched libertine, slightly less worthy of censure than the Marquis de Sade. Yet he was something that De Sade was not, a great wit. Though  nowhere near the range or genius of Pope or Swift, he nevertheless compiled  a great body of satirical poetry in the Juvenalian tradition. His  &quot;Satyre Against Mankind,&quot; Like Swift's Houyhnhnms chapters,  present human beings in their true place in nature, despite all the  panegyrics and biblical references placing us at the top of the chain. If  you are lover of satire, as I am, and don't mind observations that place us  amongst the lower orders rather than atop some Parnassian peak, give this  volume a try.	2000-07-25
US	50747141	R1SV8DGM14LVCT	1559702478	646109539	Provence	Books	4	22	23	N	N	Durrell's Swan Song	Lawrence Durrell did &quot;go gently into that good night,&quot; and this book serves as a document to that peaceful passage. Like his novels, this book is a mixture of the poetic, the prosaic and especially the erotic  motifs that preoccupied him throughout his literary career.<br />Like Mayles  after him, Durrell had a deep afffection for the region and for the  Provenceaux. Both Mayles and Durrell are great guides to take along on  either a literal or imaginary excursion through the region. Mayles is the  more humorous of the two and will keep you constantly entertained. Durrell  will give you a clearer understanding of the Provencal history, telling you  who built monuments such as the Pont du Gard and something about their  effect on a visitor: &quot;Yet there are surprises for us even here, for  even a functional artefact like the Pont du Gard is so huge in conception  that its magniloquence is the equal of Westminster Abbey. But we must  remember that it was dedicated to water and water was a God. The best  description of the Pont is by Rousseau. It took a great deal to shut a man  like him up, but the emeregence of this mastadon from the featureless  garrigues which house the spring that feeds it deprived him of coherent  speech, so uncanny did it seem.&quot; This is an example of what  distinguishes Durrell's book. He will take you to an oft-visited site and  in a few strokes, with the occasional literary allusion thrown in for good  measure, produce a vivid enough image that even before you travel to the  site you will have a pretty good notion of what to expect.<br />The only part  of the book I found distracting was the uneven quality of the poems that  Durrell inserts throughout the narrative. Sometimes they work seamlessly,  at other times they obtrude and sound more like literary exercises than  spontaneous outbursts. In other words, imagine your tour guide sometimes  breaking into melifluous song and other times whistling  out of tune.<br />If  you really want to know something about the history of the region, from an  informed visitor (it was his home base for his last thirty years), by all  means put this book on your list. If you want a more congenial look at the  region and its highly colorful inhabitants, stick to Mayle.u really want to know something about the history of the region, from an  informed visitor (it was his home base for his last thirty years), by all  means put this book on your list. If you want a more congenial look at the  region and its highly colorful inhabitants, stick to Mayle.	2000-07-25
US	50747141	R1D9D2LCF6FPKC	0706700295	174255245	Kean (Playscripts)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A shame it isn't better known	My first trip to England in the early 70's was the highpoint of my theater-going experiences. I was lucky enough to see Alec Guiness in &quot;Voyage Round My Father,&quot; the Peter Brook production of &quot;A  Midsummer Night's Dream,&quot; and a young Ian McClellan playing the lead  in &quot;Kean.&quot; All were unforgettable, but this play still sticks in  my mind as being among the negelected masterpieces of 20th century  playwrighting. Sartre understood theater history and he understood  role-playing, appearance vs. reality and all the other critical saws that  are discussed in high-school English classes. Yet in this play these tired  themes are perfectly expressed and therefor renewed and made infinitely  interesting by the manner in which the playwright unfolds them. There is a  gradual peeling away of pretense and bravado on the part of the protagonist  (the play might as well be a monologue), and the audience comes to  understand that behind all the masks, what Sartre finally wants to show us  is humanity stripped of its skin. He exposes the viscera, the protruding  bones, the raw psychic flesh that we are all heir to. Kean, by play's  conclusion, has degenerated into a knd of erstwhile Truman Capote, having  sacrificed his soul in the process of gaining notoriety. He also shares  Capote's substance abuse weaknesses, though his alcoholism is merely a  symptom of his inner malaise. Sartre is saying a great deal about art,  about the effect of fame and about the human condition in this work. It is  a play that should be revived every fifth year either on the West End or on  Broadway, in my opinion. It is apparently hard to come by. I can't even  swear that it reads as well as it plays (I've seen two productions, but  haven't been able to find it in print myself). If you ever have the  opportunity to see the play, by all means avail yourself of a rare  theatrical treat.	2000-07-23
US	50747141	R3M2EZWPFMAE8Q	014044257X	978555038	Philosophical Dictionary (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	47	49	N	N	Essential Reading for Thinking Readers	I have kept this book by my bedside at many points in my life. I should first acknowldege that I also refer to the Bible occasionally, so I tend to draw strength and inspiration from dispirate sources. Voltaire was one of the true intellectual giants of his age, as well-read, erudite and witty as any personage in literary history. This book represents a distillation of all his writings, his &quot;encyclopedic&quot; entries, his treatises, his histories, etc. Reading these musings, you will well understand his occasional need to flee France for more liberal principalities (Prussia and Geneva, primarily).<br />Voltaire (the pen-name for Francois-Marie Arouet (1694-1778), like Gibbon, is no champion of Christianity. As a case-in-point, the Emperor Julian, who attempted unsuccessfully to restore the ancient cults in early Byzantium, and opposed the newly state-sanctioned &quot;cult&quot; of Christ, was Voltaire's paragon. For those readers interested in an interesting account of Julian's rule and of this era, Gore Vidal's &quot;Julian&quot; is a very well-written, but slightly flawed (in terms of its scholarship) account of the 4th Century ruler.<br />I particularly love Voltaire's take on &quot;enthusiasm,&quot;: &quot;Or was that word enthusiasm, from disturbance of the entrails, first given to that Pythia who, on the tripod at Delphi, received the spirit of Apollo through a part which seems made only to receive bodies?...It is the rarest of thing to unite reason with enthusiasm.&quot; No doubt the religious wars and persecutions that were a part and parcel of his era and French history for the preceeding two centuries no doubt had some bearing on his analysis.<br />To me, Voltaire is the precursor of Nietsche. In fact, Nietsche, though he rarely acknowledges Voltaire, makes practically the identical points that Voltaire makes here in his &quot;The Anti Christ&quot; and &quot;The Twilight of the Idols.&quot; They were definitely on the same page in defining faith, vs. skepticism. There are term-papers and research papers galore out there waiting to be explored in this area. In response to my erudite German friend, Nietsche does in fact speak in glowing terms of Voltaire and even goes as far to say that he is his most admired French philosopher, so my comparison is not inappropriate.<br />This is not the only area that Voltaire investigates in this wide-ranging book. Ever wonder about the account of Gog, Magog, of which you might be only vaguely familiar? Voltaire is here to explain it to you. World Religions, the &quot;Chinese Catechism,&quot; &quot;Miracles,&quot; &quot;Anthropophages,&quot; &quot;Liebniz,&quot; &quot;the souls of animals,&quot; &quot;the tower of Babel,&quot; &quot;Apis,&quot; &quot;The Great Flood,&quot; and &quot;The Spanish Inquisition;&quot; all are covered and much more. If you do not complete this book marvelling at how truly encyclopaedic a mind you are dealing with (who better, together with Diderot to compile the first truly meaningful one in the Western World?), then you might not be as open-minded as you think. Even though some of Voltaire's statements of fact are dubious in light of subsequent discoveries, one must still marvel at the range of his intellect and curiosity.vs. skepticism. There are term-papers and research papers galore out there waiting to be explored in this area. In response to my erudite German friend, Nietsche does in fact speak in glowing terms of Voltaire and even goes as far to say that he is his most admired French philosopher, so my comparison is not inappropriate. <br />This is not the only area that Voltaire investigates in this wide-ranging book. Ever wonder about the account of Gog, Magog, of which you might be only vaguely familiar? Voltaire is here to explain it to you. World Religions, the &quot;Chinese Catechism,&quot; &quot;Miracles,&quot; &quot;Anthropophages,&quot; &quot;Liebniz,&quot; &quot;the souls of animals,&quot; &quot;the tower of Babel,&quot; &quot;Apis,&quot; &quot;The Great Flood,&quot; and &quot;The Spanish Inquisition;&quot; all are covered and much more. If you do not complete this book marvelling at how truly encyclopaedic a mind you are dealing with (who better, together with Diderot to compile the first truly meaningful one in the Western World?), then you might not be as open-minded as you think. Even though some of Voltaire's statements of fact are dubious in light of subsequent discoveries, one must still marvel at the range of his intellect and curiosity.	2000-07-22
US	50747141	R241XBJW5N5YYU	0140442448	373999235	On the Good Life (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	45	52	N	N	Old Tully Can be a Bit Overbearing	This is not one of those tomes I return to frequently, but when I do I am usually rewarded with a precept or an insight I overlooked the first time or which I have subsequently forgotten. Tully never let his mind drift off  into the clouds. He is the arbiter of common sense and reason, above all,  reason. He is a lawyer through and through. He will argue his case and  expects no rebuttal. If in a given epistle, friend or foe should pose an  objection to his line of reasoning, rather than engage in protracted  debate, as Socrates might, Cicero delivers a few pithy rejoinders and the  matter is settled:<br />&quot;Cicero: ' Ah, you're trying to refute me by  quoting things I've said or written myself. That's confronting me with  documents that have already been sealed! You can reserve that method for  people who only argue according to fixed rules. But I live from one day to  the next! If something strikes me as probable, I say it; and that is how,  unlike everyone else, I remain a free agent.'&quot; Easy for him to say,  and adroitly skating around any further discussion of the subject. Case  closed! And if you come at me tomorrow, I may employ an entirely different  line of reasoning. This is one reason Cicero used to be required reading  for debate students.<br />Actually that is Tully at his least didactic, as  his entire raison-d'etre was to teach. And his texts, coming down to us  primarly in epistolatory form, do instruct us how to behave, how to  interact, how to be civilized and live according to the Aristotelean Golden  Mean. Luckily, they weren't sealed up as his law documents were.  Virgil's  ideal of &quot;pietas&quot; was derived in large part from Roman fathers of  Cicero's ilk.<br /> This book cannot be dismissed and should be required  reading for anyone entering the law profession today. There might be more  scrupulous attorneys practicing today if Ciceronian ethics were stressed as  they were in olden days. This book is also full of common sense advice, the  kind that used to be passed down from generation to generation, yet is  sorely missing in these days of instant gratification and the glorification  of self.dvice, the  kind that used to be passed down from generation to generation, yet is  sorely missing in these days of instant gratification and the glorification  of self.	2000-07-22
US	50747141	R381JDR64TR8KA	0023582901	317314809	John Milton: Complete Poems and Major Prose	Books	5	45	46	N	N	The Text to Own	This is still the most extensive, best-annotated, one-volume Milton set available. As the blurb above indicates, Hughes presents all the poems and prose in chronological sequence, so it is easy to trace the great poet's  increasing facility, and later mastery, in both areas. We start with  Milton, the fifteen-year-old student, translating Psalms from the Hebrew as  well as passages from the love poems of Ovid and Properius. We then follow  him to Cambridge, where he really starts assimilating all his classical  studies, first fashioning imitative Latin elegies followed by his first  poems of native genius, &quot;On the Morning of Christ's Nativity,&quot;  &quot;On Shakespeare,&quot; &quot;L'Allegro and Il Penseroso.&quot;<br />  Hughe's edition is invaluable as a tool for students, scholars, or general  readers. The notes never get in the way of the text, but will lead the  reader to relevant sources should he/she desire to learn more about a given  allusion or want more  background. If the reader is patient, and actually  reads all the material that comes before &quot;Paradise Lost&quot;, he/she  will be rewarded with a richer understanding of Milton's magnum opus.  Please be advised that if you have made it that far, don't stop there.  &quot;Paradise Regained&quot; and &quot;Sampson Agonistes&quot; are  powerful examples of epic poetry as well. I personally feel that  &quot;Paradise Regained&quot; has had almost as large an impact on modern  fiction in particular (Dostoevsky and Flaubert are prime examples)as has  &quot;Paradise Lost.&quot;<br />Blake said that Milton was of Satan's party  without knowing it. Actually Milton's prose does open up some interesting  possibilities in that sphere. In &quot;Areopagitica&quot; he advocates for  the necessity of evil. He was, as history has amply recorded, hardly a  defender of central authority. He was emphatic about individual liberty and  wouldn't be dictated to by Pope or King.<br />  There are several short early  biographies of the poet at the end of the book. All paint a portrait of an  idiosyncratic genius who suffered numerous setbacks both physical and  political, particularly in his last decades. He was an extraordinarily  brave man, who has taken some heat from Virginia Woolf and later feminists  for his &quot;ill use&quot; of his daughters, who, the line goes, he kept  in ignorance and near slavery so that they could aid him as ameneunses  after he went blind. If such detractors  had actually done any wide reading  on the subject (Shawcrosse is an excellent source) they would not have made  such charges. Though not what could be described as a &quot;loving  father,&quot; Milton certainly never inveighed against his daughters to  remain &quot;indentured&quot; to him, nor did he subvert any marriage plans  they arranged (none were forced into &quot;arranged marriages&quot; either,  though the practice was still common in that era). He didn't tutor them in  the Languages he asked them to transcribe, per se. But this begs the  question, if they were'nt taught Latin, Greek and Hebrew, how would they  have been able to act as scribes in those languages in the first place?<br />I'm sorry to see that this volume is now almost $100. In this day of  large trade paperbacks, perhaps a more affordable edition will be  forthcoming.biographies of the poet at the end of the book. All paint a portrait of an  idiosyncratic genius who suffered numerous setbacks both physical and  political, particularly in his last decades. He was an extraordinarily  brave man, who has taken some heat from Virginia Woolf and later feminists  for his &quot;ill use&quot; of his daughters, who, the line goes, he kept  in ignorance and near slavery so that they could aid him as ameneunses  after he went blind. If such detractors  had actually done any wide reading  on the subject (Shawcrosse is an excellent source) they would not have made  such charges. Though not what could be described as a &quot;loving  father,&quot; Milton certainly never inveighed against his daughters to  remain &quot;indentured&quot; to him, nor did he subvert any marriage plans  they arranged (none were forced into &quot;arranged marriages&quot; either,  though the practice was still common in that era). He didn't tutor them in  the Languages he asked them to transcribe, per se. But this begs the  question, if they were'nt taught Latin, Greek and Hebrew, how would they  have been able to act as scribes in those languages in the first place?  <br />I'm sorry to see that this volume is now almost $100. In this day of  large trade paperbacks, perhaps a more affordable edition will be  forthcoming.	2000-07-22
US	50747141	R21W0IFRUOI4Y2	0767904427	522587403	Going After Cacciato	Books	4	29	43	N	N	The Second - Best Vietnam Novel	I really don't want to short-change this novel. It is definitely a true-to-life, highly-charged account of what it was like to be a part of the lunacy that was Vietnam. I like the way that it starts out in the real  world and descends into the undergrowth of the subconscious, similarly to  Coppola's &quot;Apocalypse Now&quot; and Kubrick's &quot;Full Metal  Jacket.&quot; The allusions to The Naked and the Dead and to Catch 22 are  also on-the-mark. An even more contemporaneous comparison would be to  &quot;Saving Private Ryan,&quot; obviously, though the motives of the  reconaissance teams would not be comparable, morally speaking.<br />What  prevents the five star award is that I've read another Vietnam War book  that is so far superior to this account, that I can't in good conscience  award them equal status. Meditations in Green, by Stephen Wright is so  superior in terms of scope and artistry that I have to reserve my full  endorsement for that novel. O'Brien is a highly competent author. On the  other hand, Wright just might make it to the highest rungs of the literary  ladder, breathing the same air as Faulkner, Fitzgerald, and Hemingway as  far as American mountaineers are concerned. O'Brien may have to be content  with breathing the slightly thinner oxygen of Mailer and James Jones. Which  might not be so bad, since most of us mere mortals are down here taking in  corbon monoxide.	2000-07-16
US	50747141	R1N7QSD3S8ROO4	0140062866	220749293	Finnegans Wake: Centennial Edition	Books	5	36	45	N	N	Five Stars for Audacity	I've read all of Joyce's novels and short stories and have taken graduate courses featuring hours of seminar and discussion, so don't consider myself unqualified to cast an opinion. I must say though, that Joyce was having a  bit of fun with his readers here. This is his endgame in which he  outmaneuvers all other authors. Remember this is the same writer who  prophesied, shortly after its publication by Shakespeare &amp; Co. that  Ulysses would keep the academics guessing for 100 years (it will have them  arguing a lot longer than that I'll wager).<br />Well take Ulysses and  multiply it to the tenth power and you will have some perspective of this  Tower of Babel of a novel. Joyce wants to take you higher and higher up the  tower steps until you become so disoriented you have no longer have any  clue what speech or language signify (which is the primary reason it is one  of the deconstructionists holy texts).<br /> If you will recall, Ulysses  begins in a tower as well. Only here, the higher he takes you, the more you  are overcome by vertigo as you peer down at the vestiges of culture and  what you supposed was community below.<br />Anyone who has seriously studied  Joyce and has read his biographers (Edelman is my favorite, but Leon Edel  also provides some sharp insights) is aware that few authors had a more  colossal Ego than JJ. This work is the author's ego as edifice. Take the  climb if you so desire. He will definitely not lead you by the hand, and  the only thing you will see and hear when you get to the top are provided  by your own inadequate sensory apparati. You might just get a whiff of your  own sweat and mortality as well. If your eyes can still focus, you might  also see JJ, bent over,  laughing at you for having made the trip. I know,  I thought he was a one-eyed SOB at that point too.	2000-07-15
US	50747141	R1AX8DC7DXHOZ7	0679728864	29155702	The Enchanter	Books	3	10	18	N	N	I Wish I Hadn't Read IT	Nabakov is one of my literary icons. I view him as one of the masters of 20th century prose. That's why I wish I hadn't read this book. It is indeed a precursor to Lotlita, told from the point of view of a character much  like Humbert Humbert, who has a distinct penchant for young, waifish girls.  However, whereas Lolita is full of great wit, disarming wordplay and  inventiveness, this novella borders on the prosaically pornographic. Most  of the narrative is taken up with the lurid musings and imaginative follies  of the old rake. As is the case in Lolita, he takes up with the mother to  get closer to the daughter. And in this story too, the mother is  conveniently removed from the picture, leaving our hero to bask in solitude  with his young ward. Again, as in his great novel, Nabakov's narrator comes  to a bad end. His nymphette wakes up while he is forcing himself on her and  starts screaming bloody murder. The neighbors call the police and he's  carted off to jail.  Anyone who is familiar with Lolita is aware of the  obscenity charges filed against it and of the difficulties surounding its  initial US publication. However, Lolita, Like Joyce's Ulysses, is not  obscene in any sense. It towers above its subject matter because it is  great satirical literature, full of humor and grand spirit. This little  book, on the other hand, becomes bogged down in its subject matter and  comes very close to being pornographic. There is good reason it wasn't  published until recently. It throws a new and perhaps unwarrentedly lurid  light on its author's masterpiece. Nabakov's son issues a king of apologia  for the work in a postscript. I read this book because I've tried to read  all of Nabakov's works, both fiction and non-fiction. I would have to place  this one at the bottom of the list. My reverence for a great author was  diminished slightly by my exposure to this text. I'm surprised his estate  did decide to publish it.	2000-07-13
US	50747141	RXNBYJJ7FAK63	0140184570	664849093	The Gods Will Have Blood (Les Dieux Ont Soif)	Books	3	32	45	N	N	A Classic of French Literature?	I once challenged myself to read all the Penguin Classics  in the Viking catalogue. I think I've made it through about 70% of the listings and feel rewarded for the effort. I couldn't recall much about this one, so I  re-read it recently. Its not a work that I would wholeheartedly recommend.  Anatole France, like Flaubert, is known for &quot;le mot juste,&quot;  however Flaubert was a greater craftsman than France (whose real name was  Jacques Thilbault). Perhaps there is need of a better translation. Even the  title in this Penguin edition is misleading. There is no reference to  &quot;Blood&quot; in the original (Les Dieux ont soif).<br />  The story  follows the upwardly mobile path of Evariste Gamelin, a young Parisian  painter and student of the reknowned Jacques Louis David (whose famous  portrait of Marat lying assassinated in his bathtub adorns the cover of the  Peguin edition). Gamelin is one of those single-minded idealists who show  up wherever and whenever there is a revolution to be fought. His hero is  Robespierre, and while Robespierre's star is in the ascendent, during the  Reign of Terror, Gamelin's star shines too. He is transformed from  struggling artist to magistrate on the Revolutionary Tribunal. He also  passes from a rather meek lover of humanity, who engages in such altruistic  acts of kindness as giving half his last loaf of bread to a hungry mother  and her child, to a monstrous, indiscriminate killing machine, sending  innocent victims by the droves to their deaths. He settles scores with most  of the characters in the novel, sending them to the guillotine sometimes  for personal reasons, at other times simply as a matter of implimenting his  messianic impulses. Eventually the bloody excesses of Gamelin and his ilk  serve to inflame the populace, who turn on Robespierre and his Jacobin  followers, Gamelin included.<br /> Frederick Davies, the translator of this  edition, contends that &quot;The Gods Will Have Blood is not only the  greatest novel Anatole France wrote, it is one of the greatest of French  novels.&quot; I strongly disagree. I don't see Anatole France even  approaching such novelists as Flaubert, Hugo, Huysmans, Gide, Stendhal,  etc. This work is definitely of the second rank as well. The novel is  structured rather clumsily. France spends almost the entire first half of  the book on exposition. Plot and characterization serve primarily as  vehicles for France's polemics. The writing is static, the descriptions  highly conventional. There is no comparison to Hugo, Flaubert or Stendhal,  who wrote historical novels but invested them with riveting characters and  who all had a wonderful eye for detail. Flaubert labored and struggled over  each word in his novels, but the finished result was seamless. One is not  aware of the labor when reading, one simply enjoys the result and is caught  up in the narrative. With France, one is conscious of the labor and the  fussing and fumbling. He tries very hard, but the mechanics are flawed and  the operation is exposed in all its frailty.<br />If you want to read a good  treatment of the French Revolution and the Reign of Terror that ensued, I  would suggest Carlyle. Dicken's A Tale of Two Cities  is naturally the most  famous novel covering the period, but I'm not a Dickens fan. As you can  judge from my reaction to this book, I'm not a big Anatole France fan  either, though Penguin Island was at least mildly entertaining.test novel Anatole France wrote, it is one of the greatest of French  novels.&quot; I strongly disagree. I don't see Anatole France even  approaching such novelists as Flaubert, Hugo, Huysmans, Gide, Stendhal,  etc. This work is definitely of the second rank as well. The novel is  structured rather clumsily. France spends almost the entire first half of  the book on exposition. Plot and characterization serve primarily as  vehicles for France's polemics. The writing is static, the descriptions  highly conventional. There is no comparison to Hugo, Flaubert or Stendhal,  who wrote historical novels but invested them with riveting characters and  who all had a wonderful eye for detail. Flaubert labored and struggled over  each word in his novels, but the finished result was seamless. One is not  aware of the labor when reading, one simply enjoys the result and is caught  up in the narrative. With France, one is conscious of the labor and the  fussing and fumbling. He tries very hard, but the mechanics are flawed and  the operation is exposed in all its frailty. <br />If you want to read a good  treatment of the French Revolution and the Reign of Terror that ensued, I  would suggest Carlyle. Dicken's A Tale of Two Cities  is naturally the most  famous novel covering the period, but I'm not a Dickens fan. As you can  judge from my reaction to this book, I'm not a big Anatole France fan  either, though Penguin Island was at least mildly entertaining.	2000-07-02
US	50747141	R27DTIW55BGP4Z	0671874829	523753257	The Adventurers	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Feeling Nostalgic About Old Harold	I would be the last person to suggest that anything Harold Robbins wrote had any literary merit. I just had to write a paean to an author who made me realize, as a 12-year-old back in 1963, that I could make it through two  large novels (this one and The Carpetbaggers) and come through it with a  taste for fiction. Of course I was titillated and thrilled and thought Dax  the coolest guy this side of the Man From Orgy. I only recall that there  was a plethora of money, women and adventure, ingredients that would appeal  to any 12 year-old-boy's imagination. It appears, from the dearth of  reviews, that Old Harold's books are pretty-much neglected these days.  They're probably too dated for a contemporary 12-year-old. I wonder what  700+ page books today's 12-year-old boys are reading?	2000-07-02
US	50747141	R1MBOU4SWQ97YE	0060931728	396633035	Ariel: Perennial Classics Edition	Books	5	42	54	N	N	The Volume to Own	Sylvia Plath and Denise Lermontov were the two most powerful female American poets of the 20th century. When I was in my teens and a &quot;would-be&quot; poet, I had a copy of Ariel that I rarely let out of  my sight. She is the queen of angst. I greedily drank the concoction she  distilled out of her anger, disillusionment and loathing. I felt the same  way towards my parents as she did towards hers. Those who try to soft-pedal  these poems and claim they're somehow life-affirming are deluding  themselves. These are poems of despair, anguish and hopelesness, probably  the most evocative expressions of those sentiments ever recorded. They will  not put you in a good mood. These come from the dark night of utter  isolation, written by a young, beautiful wife and mother who will soon  stick her head in an oven and turn on the gas. They are about as pretty as  Auschwitz. If you are looking for poetry that is morally uplifting, look  elsewhere. If the paintings of Bosch and Breughel hold some fascination for  you and you don't flinch from visions of the damned, then this work will  appeal to you. For some reason, I think of Sylvia Plath and Diane Arbus as  artistic sisters. Both show us things we probably didn't really want to  see, but it's impossible to look away when confronted with the images they  depicted. Art is sometimes disturbing. This is one unsettling volume of  poetry.	2000-06-30
US	50747141	RRP9MTH28GM9P	8401812437	161275729	Papilln	Books	4	23	36	N	N	True or Not, a Grand Time	I could care less whether what Charriere relates is entirely factual or not. He's an ex-con, after all, so we may take a lot of what he says with a grain of salt. Does this means the story suffers as a result of a con's  artifice? I think not. The story was written when Charriere was 63. He  probably did add a lot of imaginative detail, but he also led a far more  interesting, eventful, and courageous life than 99.9% of the book's readers  have. Anyone who could come up with these incidents is a natural-born  storyteller at any event. The book's sold more than 5 million copies and  has been translated into over 20 languages. I don't in the least consider  myself fooled, I consider myself enriched for having read it, Believe it or  Not.	2000-06-28
US	50747141	R2OITZDIXKBIF6	0375707972	153296191	The Reader	Books	3	6	13	N	N	Simplistic Rather Than Simple	... This is a simplistic work, in terms of its so-called &quot;style&quot; (there is none), its themes (treated much more forcefully by hundreds of other writers, but particularly by Hannah Arendt and Elie Wiesel), its outlook (provincial, bordering on ignorant), its insights (along the lines of Jack Handy's &quot;Deep Thoughts&quot; on Saturday Night Live) and its tone (deaf).<br />I read this work through because I couldn't believe that George Steiner would have his name attached to a second-rate book. I was not rewarded for my efforts. Maybe Schlink is a personal friend of Steiner's for I can't for the life of me see how anyone of his literary reputation would suggest that The Reader should be &quot;Read...and then Read again.&quot; This is probably the most singularly colorless, dull exercise in language that I've come across. And please don't bring up how that's part of the author's intent, that it's supposed to be some kind of minimalist treatment a la Raymond Carver, or that Schlink chose stark prose to portray a stark subject. It's simply a lack of imagination on the author's part. He hasn't the imaginative power to construct one meaningful metaphor or image.<br />At times, the novel sinks beneath the weight of its banalities to new lows in fiction, as when the author delivers the following &quot;deep thought:&quot; &quot;When an airplane's engines fail, it is not the end of the flight. Airplanes don't fall out of the sky like stones. They glide on, the enormous multi-engined passenger jet, for thirty, forty-five minutes, only to smash themselves up when they attempt a landing. The passengers don't notice a thing. Flying feels the same, whether the engines are working or not....Maybe the very quietness of the flight is appealing to the passsengers.&quot; Really? No one would notice if all the engines failed for forty-five happy, carefree minutes? How many martinis does this guy down on a given trip?<br />The reaction to this book actually frightens me to some extent. So many readers here appear to blithely regard it as some kind of erotic turn-on, a love story infused with serious meditations on the after-effects of the Holocaust. All I noticed was that a 15-year old boy was seduced by a 30+ streetcar conductor (what happened to Frau Schmitz' husband, by the way?), they had a sordid and colorless affair, she dissappeared and then shows up years later in a war-trial. ... While the court proceedings are occuring, the narrator (Michael Berg, aka Schlink) tells us he has erotic dreams about Hanna dressed up in her SS uniform: &quot;The worst were the dreams in which a hard, imperious, cruel Hanna aroused me sexually; I woke from them full of longing and rage. And full of fear about who I really was.&quot; If you are the sort of reader who finds German women in SS costumes exciting, I suggest you rent a Video of &quot;Ursa, She-Wolf of the SS.&quot; I will give Schlink credit for enough self-awareness to admit in the next paragraph that &quot;I knew my fantasized images were poor cliches.&quot; Unfortunately, the same can be said for 99% of this novel.ome extent. So many readers here appear to blithely regard it as some kind of erotic turn-on, a love story infused with serious meditations on the after-effects of the Holocaust. All I noticed was that a 15-year old boy was seduced by a 30+ streetcar conductor (what happened to Frau Schmitz' husband, by the way?), they had a sordid and colorless affair, she dissappeared and then shows up years later in a war-trial. ... While the court proceedings are occuring, the narrator (Michael Berg, aka Schlink) tells us he has erotic dreams about Hanna dressed up in her SS uniform: &quot;The worst were the dreams in which a hard, imperious, cruel Hanna aroused me sexually; I woke from them full of longing and rage. And full of fear about who I really was.&quot; If you are the sort of reader who finds German women in SS costumes exciting, I suggest you rent a Video of &quot;Ursa, She-Wolf of the SS.&quot; I will give Schlink credit for enough self-awareness to admit in the next paragraph that &quot;I knew my fantasized images were poor cliches.&quot; Unfortunately, the same can be said for 99% of this novel.	2000-06-28
US	50747141	R2YLHZUEGSEMZ5	0805063749	664898594	The Milagro Beanfield War	Books	5	20	20	N	N	An Antidote to Modern Cynicism	If, like me, you need an occasional break from the cynicism and irony that prevails in modern fiction, you're probably  just looking for a good, warm-hearted, read. This is it. It offers up a story of people who are at  odds with each other, but learn  to compromise. The characters are quirky,  but the writing is not overly cute, as is the case with authors such as Tom  Robbins, to whom Nichols is sometimes compared. This is essentially a  &quot;good time&quot; read. Those looking for deep human insights or  psychological delving should look elsewhere. This one's an unadulterated  joy-ride.	2000-06-27
US	50747141	R1M2X3DNB2BJKO	0140259198	782566565	The Island of the Day Before	Books	3	26	40	N	N	Less Than I Expected	The Name of the Rose was entertaining, atmospheric and engagingly complex. Foucault's Pendulum proved to be one of the most enjoyable reads I've encountered over the last two decades. Yes, it was full of recondite  musings and had one of the most convoluted plots in literature, but Eco  kept it moving apace, his mind (and this reader's admittedly short  attention-span) never flagging.<br />The Island of the Day Before, on the  other hand, left me feeling marooned, lost at sea. If that were Eco's  purpose, some sort of analagous experience, he succeeded hands-down. I felt  like a shipmate of Coleridge's Ancient Mariner, adrift on a stagnant ocean,  with nary a puff of wind to set us in motion. It was almost as if Eco had  poured so much of himself into writing &quot;Pendulum&quot; that he was  intellectually and artistically spent when it came to writing this one. I  find his discourses on Semiotics more entertaining than is this dead sea  scroll. Truly lugubrious going and readers would be far better advised to  stick to FP and TNOTR.	2000-06-27
US	50747141	R1MVCBGGZ0J8BY	0192833324	856343294	Selected Poems (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	33	42	N	N	A Case of Confusion	[...] At any rate, for those who are not  familiar with the movement, I would suggest reading, in this order:  Baudelaire, Rimbaud, Verlaine and Mallarme, as that is the sequence in  which they came to the fore of French Lit (though you could make the case  that Veralaine and Rimbaud were contemporaneous, I would suggest that  Verlaine's most important work came after his interchange with Rimbaud).  Since these are the most influential French poets of the modern era, and  had an impact on every modern \\"movement\\" that occured in  literature thereafter, you can not go wrong with any of them. There are  those who contend that poetry especially is lost in translation. I would  agree, yet all these poets are represented by \\"facing\\" texts  these days. The original text is mirrored by the translation on the  opposite page. Oxford and Penguin both are good choices. The translators  are uniformally well-educated and erudite, the printing is excellent and  the overall scholarhip, including introductions, is top-notch. You can't go  wrong with these editions.	2000-06-27
US	50747141	R2E93Z5BLHERU	0811200183	130445026	Guignol's Band: Novel	Books	4	34	36	N	N	One Large Book	It's almost impossible to break Celine's works down into the usual category of &quot;books.&quot; Basically everything he wrote, his entire  oevre, is one metabook. If you want to get sequential, start with Death on  the Istallment Plan and work your way up from there. DOTIP deals in large  part with &quot;Ferdinand's&quot; childhood and we are treated to  descriptions of a surreal upbringing (an entire neighborhood enclosed in  soot-encrusted glass, a mother and father depicted as slightly less than  imebeciles). I would then suggest reading Journey to the End of the Night  (primarily about WW1 and his trip to America), Guignol's Band, London  Bridge (Guignol's Band II), Rigadoon, Castle to Castle and North. All have  been well translated. Don't be put off by puffy readers who say that these  texts can only be appreciated in French. This is one author who comes  through loud and clear (probably just as biting and clever in Swahili) in  translation. Celine deals in high comedy and his novels move at the pace of  a Mack Sennet or Charlie Chaplin film. The energy is always frenetic and he  seldom allows you any lulls. The descriptions in this book of &quot;The  Leicester Boarding House,&quot; lorded over by Cascade, Dr. Clodovitz, the  wounded-in-the-ass Joconde, Boro - master of the keyboards, but most of all  Titus Von Claben, will leave you howling if Celine strikes a responsive  chord. If he doesn't, then you have a different sort of sensibility than  mine and should probably avoid this author at all costs. There is nothing  Keilloresque about Celine. He came up out of the Paris slums and witnessed  some of the most horrific scenes the 20th century produced. That he came  out of it all with a sense-of-the-ridiculous intact is a marvel in itself.  He was on the wrong side of most issues his entire life. He made some  stupid choices. But those who maintain that he wallowed in self-pity are  way off the mark. He always points to himself as his own worst culprit. He  never pretends to heroism. He is, like Chaplin, always the fall-guy, but is  also, in the same light, a survivor. He gets up after his prat-falls, dusts  himself off and heads on towards the next chapter.never pretends to heroism. He is, like Chaplin, always the fall-guy, but is  also, in the same light, a survivor. He gets up after his prat-falls, dusts  himself off and heads on towards the next chapter.	2000-06-27
US	50747141	R17AB017AT3248	0451191153	594264062	The Fountainhead	Books	3	38	72	N	N	Caveat Emptor	I must confess, I loved this book and Atlas Shrugged when I first read them as a freshman in prep-school. I must also relate that reading these two novels did more to confuse and isolate me as an adolescent than any two  works I'd encountered. I so identified with the protagonists that I thought  of nothing further than &quot;forging my own destiny&quot; and carving out  my place in the world at the expense of letting no one come closer to me  than arm's length. As far as exposing Rand to impressionable, young  psyches, I would have to beg any responsible adult to keep her &quot;at  arm's length.&quot; She took Carlyle's heroic individualism to an absurd  conclusion. She goes beyond Nietzche in her appeal to the isolated self.  Each of us is his/her own island, seperate and unequal. Any notion of  social amelioration is an act of cowardice. I am no proponent of political  correctness, but Rand's philosophy borders on Fascism - the strong leader  pulling the herd along by tethers. As much as I abhor her philosophy, I  must give her due as a novelist. She carves out compelling characters and  keeps a narrative moving. She can write. If you can keep a fourteen or  fifteen-year-old interested for 1000 pages, you must be doing something  right. Then again, I also loved Harold Robbins' novels at that age.	2000-06-25
US	50747141	R18Z7MAIXMK0LP	0394404289	377400426	The Prophet (A Borzoi Book)	Books	5	95	109	N	N	Simple Wisdom	This is one of the first (literary) books I recall reading. My mother kept a collection of Gibran's works that she often read. I was curious to see what attracted her, so I looked into them too ( I was either eight or nine  at the time). I believe that was my first taste of spirituality and seemed  at the time more relevant than what I was being force-fed by nuns in  catechism class. Rereading Gibran now, I'm struck by the notion that Hesse  must have been aware of these texts before he wrote Siddhartha. They  contain many of the same themes: No one else can guide you on your path.  You must select your own course. Preachers and prophets are a dime a dozen.  True wisdom comes from within.<br />The prophet's teaching on love is  particularly relevant to me at this stage of my life:<br />&quot;For even as  love crowns you so shall he crucify you. Even as he is for your growth so  is he for your pruning. Even as he ascends to your height and caresses your  tenderest branches that quiver in the sun, So shall he descend to your  roots and shake them in their clinging to the earth. Like sheaves of corn  he gathers you unto himself. He threshes you to make you naked. He sifts  you to free you from your husks. He grinds you to whiteness. He kneads you  until you are pliant; And then he assigns you to his sacred fire, that you  may become sacred bread for God's sacred feast.&quot;<br />Look into these  books. They may appear simplistic to the jaundiced eye, but they may also  provide the inspiration you need to see you through life's travails.	2000-06-24
US	50747141	R203GAB2T8TBH7	0553380648	377895949	The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test	Books	5	187	203	N	N	Pure Reading Enjoyment	I've savored just about every word this man's ever written. I still vividly recall him at a lecture he gave in Berkley in 1972 standing at the lectern in his white Gatsby suit, starched pink shirt and nattily knotted  tie. I can't recall the ostensible topic. He covered so much ground and had  such a wealth of ideas and insights that the topic was irrelevent anyway.  He's always been our keenest observer of American culture, on subjects  ranging from hippies, art snobs, wall street, the space race, to the  Southern nouveau-riches.<br />In terms of unadulterated reading enjoyment,  however, this book is still my favorite. He captures the era perfectly.  This was the period in the mid-sixties when the hippie philosophy and  lifestyle was still genuine, before it had become commercially exploited by  the mass media, before Manson and Altamont and the seeds of evil. It was an  uncorrupted, pure, joyous movement and moment. Owsley was the bay area  chemist who produced hits of Sandoz-quality acid that sent the children out  dancing blissfully through the night and into the purple dawn. It truly  looked like a brave new world. If you are young and can't undertand why  former hippies wax nostalgic about it, it's primarily (at least to me)  because that tiny era of innocence can never be recreated.<br />If ever there were a work of either fiction or non fiction that captured the essence, freedom, and expectation of a marvelous era, this is it!<br />One of the great non fiction works of the 20th century!<br />BEK	2000-06-23
US	50747141	R2GE4LNDLHKVKN	0553380648	377895949	The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test	Books	5	53	62	N	N	Being There	I've savored just about every word this man's ever written. I still vividly recall him at a lecture he gave in Berkley in 1972 standing at the lectern in his white Gatsby suit, starched pink shirt and nattily knotted  tie. I can't recall the ostensible topic. He covered so much ground and had  such a wealth of ideas and insights that the topic was irrelevent anyway.  He's always been our keenest observer of American culture, on subjects  ranging from hippies, art snobs, wall street, the space race, to the  Southern nouveau-riches.<br />In terms of unadulterated reading enjoyment,  however, this book is still my favorite. He captures the era perfectly.  This was the period in the mid-sixties when the hippie philosophy and  lifestyle was still genuine, before it had become commercially exploited by  the mass media, before Manson and Altamont and the seeds of evil. It was an  uncorrupted, pure, joyous movement and moment. Owsley was the bay area  chemist who produced hits of Sandoz-quality acid that sent the children out  dancing blissfully through the night and into the purple dawn. It truly  looked like a brave new world. If you are young and can't undertand why  former hippies wax nostalgic about it, it's primarily (at least to me)  because that tiny era of innocence can never be recreated. The waters of  cynisism have washed away all the bridges to that idyllic past. The era  can, however, thanks to Tom Wolfe, be revisited. I urge you to take the  tour.	2000-06-23
US	50747141	R1EH6FRO8J6MN5	0140148590	248472059	The General in His Labyrinth	Books	3	9	13	N	N	Definitely Defied Expectations	Marquez is one of the great writers of our time and I regard One Hundred  Years of Solitude an unassailable masterpiece. I've read two other Marquez  novels and several of his stories, so was caught off guard by the format of  this work. It is like watching the entirety of The Wizard of Oz in black  and white. I miss the flights of fancy and the limpid lyricism of his  &quot;magical&quot; fiction.  I don't believe Marquez felt comfortable  with the historical fiction genre. As another reviewer alluded to, it  probably had something to do with the subject matter. Marquez obviously  reveres El Liberador so greatly that he doesn't want to overstep certain  bounds. In his postscript, Marquez relates the difficulties he encountered  in trying to write a serious historical account. He ends the postscript by  saying &quot;...I am not certain I should give thanks for these two final  pieces of assistance, for it seems to me that such absurdities might add a  few drops of involuntary - and perhaps desireable - humor to the horror of  this book.<br />This work recounts Bolivar's final two-week voyage up the  Magdalena River, ostensibly to leave the splintered Republics and sail off  to a number of possible designations (Jamaica? Europe?); but in essence it  is more a voyage across the Styx towards the Underworld. Bolivar, with the  scattered remnants of his forces joining him, is a dead man walking. The  life force ebbs out of him over the course of the journey, leading to  Bolivar's ultimate demise at Riohaca. Marquez depicts him as a  disillusioned, cadaverous, old soldier (he's in his forties but looks more  like 60)whose grand efforts at war and diplomacy and whose vision of a  united Republic of South America have been destroyed by splinter groups and  factional infighting. Unfortunately, for this reader at least, I found  myself about three-quarters of the way through this novel wishing that the  General would hurry up and die. The endless series of card-games, the  melange of officers and characters who assume no real importance in the  story, the sense of ennui that settles over both character and reader,  propel the story nowhere.<br />I was dissapointed by this book, but it will  hardly put me off from reading more Marquez. A friend has recommended Love  in the Time of Cholera and it sounds much more like the Marquez I am used  to . I am looking forward to reading it.elange of officers and characters who assume no real importance in the  story, the sense of ennui that settles over both character and reader,  propel the story nowhere. <br />I was dissapointed by this book, but it will  hardly put me off from reading more Marquez. A friend has recommended Love  in the Time of Cholera and it sounds much more like the Marquez I am used  to . I am looking forward to reading it.	2000-06-21
US	50747141	R2VP1CEL81RKNV	0394572300	669003939	A Year In Provence	Books	5	57	61	N	N	a Charming Divertissement	I generally abhor travelogues, but this defies the genre and isn't really a travelogue per-se anyway. It describes a destination rather than a journey. Mayle and his wife arrive in Provence with full expectations of  living la dolce vita and end up embroiled in a series of catastrophes that  require them to reshape their entire characters and perform some serious  attitude-adjusting. The English, like their American cousins, are  accustomed to time and labor operating at peak efficiency. When someone  tells us a job will be done in two weeks, we expect it done in 10 days.  When we listen to weather reports, we want to know how long a particular  pattern will last. We don't want to be told, &quot;Maybe two days, maybe  two weeks, maybe two months.&quot; As Mayle reports, things are done a bit  differently in Provence. Time operates in a different dimension. If time is  even considered, it is contemplated in terms of seasons, rather than hours,  days, or weeks.<br />Mayle's (and his wife's) adaptation to the Provencal  lifestyle is sometimes painful, other times poignant and telling, but  almost always extremely funny. He is a born raconteur, a master of the  amusing anecdote, expert at rendering a farcical tableau.<br />The cast of  characters of A Year in Provence are priceless. He describes them vividly  and each lends color to the overall impression of les Provencals that we  eventually come away with. Mayle pokes gentle fun at them and obviously has  warm feelings towards them, even his fox-eating neighbor, Massot. Every  inhabitant of the region has a strong opinion on a variety of subjects, and  these opinions are often at odds with those of their neighbors. About the  only thing everyone agrees on is the importance of food. Mayle's  decsriptions of his gastronomical forays are rendered so vividly that I  have started combing the supermarket here in Pinehurst for ingredients  (pale imitations for the most part, sadly).<br />I was fortunate to find the  unabridged tape of this book at my library. David Case did a great job at  rendering the English disposition slowly succombing to the pace and timbre  of Provencal life. Mayle is great company. I look forward to hearing more  from him.dged tape of this book at my library. David Case did a great job at  rendering the English disposition slowly succombing to the pace and timbre  of Provencal life. Mayle is great company. I look forward to hearing more  from him.	2000-06-20
US	50747141	R37KWGI1JF0U3X	0811201082	627156472	The Books in My Life (New Directions Paperbook)	Books	4	34	46	N	N	A good source for serious readers and aspiring writers	Unlike the other reviewers here, whose views I respect by the way, I'm not a big fan of Miller-as-author. I find his writing megalomaniacal and egocentric in the extreme. He never seems to tire of telling us about  himself and his exploits. He found himself endlessly fascinating, not  unlike Rousseau in that respect. His reputation was built in large part as  a result of the obscenity charges he faced after the release of Tropic of  Cancer. I can still vaguely recall a 60's movie in which an outraged Jimmy  Stewart called Sandra Dee out on the carpet for reading Tropic. Reading  Miller was considered risque and slightly delinquent back in the 60's and  he was cool because he talked dirty. His books sold because a lot of male  adolescents like myself wanted to read the &quot;good parts.&quot; In  retrospect, Frank Harris wrote on similar subjects, but actually had  something to say beyond the bedroom as well. Check out Harris' My Life and  Loves, if you don't believe me. Harris wins the Miller-Harris author war  hands down, in my opinion.<br />Even if you share my opinion of Miller, you  should nevertheless give this book a look. His comments and recommendations  are set forth with humor and wit and I agree for the most part with his  assessments. He piqued my interest in Celine and made me want to read more  of Dostoevski, two of my favorite authors. I'd never heard of Knut Hamsun  before reading Books in My Life, but had to give that author a chance,  simply on the strength of Miller's fervid recommendation.<br />I'm not sold  on all these recommendations however. I gave Blaise Cendrars a chance, but  feel that he probably hasn't been adequately translated. Henri Charriere  (Papillon) is a better writer than Cendrars, and provides a more  interesting account of the Paris underworld they both write about. Marie  Corelli is a semi-hysterical, semi-literate, outdated abomination. Her  novels were uniformly panned by critics of the era, with abundant reason.  She was the V.C. Andrews of her day, with about a tenth of the talent. I  ordered her &quot;Sorrows of Satan' through Amazon and read it at the same  time I was re-reading Bulgakov's The Master and Margarita. Both novels deal  with an earthly visitation on Satan's part. One is a masterpiece of world  literature. The other is a piece of melodramatic tripe written by a  literary charlatan. Guess which is which? H. Rider Haggard is fine if you  have not yet reached the ripe old age of fifteen. One has to bear in mind  that Miller was reading Corelli and Haggard when he was very young, and  their works wouldn't have appeared as dated then as they do now.<br />There  have been many books written about books and about reading. I would suggest  that if you want to explore one of the more absorbing and entertaining  accounts on this long list, read The Books of My Life.the V.C. Andrews of her day, with about a tenth of the talent. I  ordered her &quot;Sorrows of Satan' through Amazon and read it at the same  time I was re-reading Bulgakov's The Master and Margarita. Both novels deal  with an earthly visitation on Satan's part. One is a masterpiece of world  literature. The other is a piece of melodramatic tripe written by a  literary charlatan. Guess which is which? H. Rider Haggard is fine if you  have not yet reached the ripe old age of fifteen. One has to bear in mind  that Miller was reading Corelli and Haggard when he was very young, and  their works wouldn't have appeared as dated then as they do now. <br />There  have been many books written about books and about reading. I would suggest  that if you want to explore one of the more absorbing and entertaining  accounts on this long list, read The Books of My Life.	2000-06-17
US	50747141	RTRKG8OFX7FHJ	014018595X	703596555	The Magician	Books	5	28	28	N	N	A Neglected Gem	This is one of Maugham's least-read works, judging from its absence in most bookstores and libraries. Of Human Bondage, Cakes and Ale, The Moon and Sixpence are usually fairly easy to locate on most shelves. You must do  a little digging to find this one, but it will reward your efforts.<br />At  the center of the book is Oliver Haddo, who, as you can tell from the other  reviews here, is based entirely and without much thought of disguise upon  Aleister Crowley, the London necromancer. The plot is indeed pure  melodrama, the virginal fiance drawn irresistibly towards her doom by dark  forces against which there appears to be no defense. Think of Bram Stoker,  or Coppola if you haven't read the novel. Will our hero somehow find a way  to overcome the great odds and emerge victorious? Will Haddo succeed in his  plan of evil debauchery? Stay tuned for the heady conclusion.<br />What saves  The Magician from sinking into the morass of its conventional and even  hackneyed plot is the quality of Maugham's writing. We are aware at all  times that we are in the hands of an accomplished writer and artist, who  can turn a tired theme into an event of wit and real pathos. At times the  scenes are in fact quite chillingly rendered as well. There is real  suspense here, as well as some startlingly weird and realistic depictions  of the occult. The scene that comes most readily to mind is Haddo's  creation of the homonculi, some home-grown little fiends he cooks up in a  test-tube. Many of the scenes have a surreal edge to them, but are grounded  in enough realistic detail to lend them plausibility at the same time.<br />I  would recommend this book to those who have read and enjoyed Maugham's  other works, as well as to anyone who enjoys books about the occult or to  fans of horror novels (of which there are legion). It's an easy and fun  read and is frightening enough that it just might have you looking over  your shoulder the next time you're dining in a London restaurant,  double-checking to see if Haddo might not be sitting somewhere across the  room. Then again, these days, a lot of women probably hope that he is.double-checking to see if Haddo might not be sitting somewhere across the  room. Then again, these days, a lot of women probably hope that he is.	2000-06-16
US	50747141	RSZ1OK34JDJZ5	0300054270	935351578	Catherine the Great: A Short History	Books	5	38	39	N	N	A Superior Study of a Great Woman	Catherine is one of history's most complex, intelligent, strong-willed and resourceful women. de Mariaga's account is accurate and straightforward. Though she lacks the rhetorical flourish and eye-for-drama that makes  Troyat's bio such a joy to read, de Mariaga pays closer attention to  historical detail and gives the reader a keener sense of the political  atmosphere Catherine faced and then recreated in her image.<br />  de Mariaga  doesn't dwell long on Catherine's formative years, dealing with the entire  period from German childhood to ascension to the Russian throne in the  prologue. She does mention the effect that Plutarch, Tacitus and  Montesquieu had on the fifteen year Catherine. When the Swede, Count  Gyllenborg urged her to read these authors, Catherine acted on the  suggestion by ordering the library of the Academy of Sciences and its  bookshop be sent to her. The books, when they came, were over the head of a  fifteen-year old, but she turned to them later in life. de Mariaga tells us  that years later, while awaiting news from Potemkin during the second  Turkish campaign, Catherine (along with her newest consort, Zubov)  distracts herself by translating Plutarch' Lives.<br />Catherine had to deal  with many powerful factions when she came to power, following Peter II's  secret assassination by the Orlov's. Some of the aristocratic members of  her early cabinet, especially Panin, were hoping for a parliamentarian form  of government, with a select few advisors wielding the majority of the  power. Catherine, with the backing of the Orlovs, displayed her mettle  early on in circumventing such notions. As far as she was concerned, Russia  would remain an an autocrcy. Yet she was diplomatic enough not to appear  heavy-handed in her decision-making and gave the impression, even to those  she disagreed with strongly, that she was considering their proposals. She  gave into Panin on his idea of a councl, but it was to be fashioned by her,  so the old idea of service to the sovereign was reinforced. Even so it took  her a good five years to consolidate her authority and spoil the ambitions  of those who wanted to keep her a figurehead regent serving only until the  czarevich Paul reached his majority.<br />de Mariaga stresses the importance  of the assembly of 1767 in helping validate Catherine's rule and cementing  her government. The assembly was important in that it allowed Catherine to  come in contact with a wide cross-section of the Empire, and allowed her to  confer new status on previously disenfranchised segments of the population  (except the serfs, of course), at the expense of the nobility. The nobility  found itself unable to resist Catherine's power-grab, for she was now  speaking directly to &quot;her children&quot; with the divine voice of the  Enlightenment. To have denounced her plan before a national assembly would  have been tantamount to denouncing providence itself.<br />Catherine  epitomized the &quot;enlightened despot.&quot; She combined the  &quot;enlightened&quot; political model of Montesqieu with her own brand of  absolute power. A case could be made that she wasn't so much power-hungry  as unwilling to share policy-making with those less-enlightened than she;  namely, the Russian nobility whom she saw (correctly) as interested  primarily in maintaining their wealth and status.<br />Catherine corresponded  frquently with Voltaire. She brought Diderot to Russia. She wrote  voluminously on subjects ranging from political science to drama. She was a  Rennaissance Man in woman's garb in an Age of Enlightenment. Her diplomatic  skills were exemplary. She could be ruthless and iron-fisted when the  occasion dictated it. She, like Peter the Great before her, forged a new  Russia, less dependent on old superstitions and the whip, more attuned to  education and the new humanism. While her sexual proclivities have been  vastly over-sensationalized, it could well be stated that in the area of  bedroom-diplomacy Cleopatra was her only rival.<br />Again, if you are a  reader interested in good story-as-bio, stick to Troyat. If you are  interested in the political panorama of 18th c. Russia, de Mariaga is the  best guide I know of.oom-diplomacy Cleopatra was her only rival. <br />Again, if you are a  reader interested in good story-as-bio, stick to Troyat. If you are  interested in the political panorama of 18th c. Russia, de Mariaga is the  best guide I know of.	2000-06-15
US	50747141	R1WCW30BED1EGM	0451525310	70046812	Victory (Signet classics)	Books	4	24	31	N	N	Paradis Refashioned	Though I include Conrad in the league of &quot;master novelists,&quot; Victory falls short of his best work.<br />One problem involves the work's narrative form. Conrad, who had proven in 1904 with Nostromo that he could  minuplate narrative masterfully, performs some sleight-of-hand trickery  here that tends to disconcert, rather than amaze the reader. On the one  hand the narrator is a first-person, frivolous quidnunc, listening in on  and reporting on conversations he overhears on the veranda of Schomberg's  hotel. At other times, he is an omniscient narrator, privy to all the  private diologue and thought that take place on Samburan and elsewhere.  Only once do we see him refer to himself as a character in the story,  during a brief conversation he has with Davidson about Mrs. Schomberg. The  same narrative technique is used by Dostoevsky in The Possessed, but I  didn't find it as obtrusive there.<br />Aside from the narrative jumble,  Conrad also fumbles with diologue here. Most of the diologue is between  Heyst and Lena and is of so saccharine a variety, one half expects to hear  MGM violins playing in the background. Purple, sentimental language is but  one aspect of the melodramatic tone of the novel as a whole. The central  plot, pitting the lover's happiness against Ricardo's and Jones' dastardly  machinations is more characteristic of Victorian romance than Conrad at his  best. Another of the shifts towards melodrama is exhibited in the work's  one-dimensional charcters. Lena and Heyst clearly represent good. Ricardo  and Jones clearly represent evil. Since Ricardo and Jones, and their  ape-dog, Pedro, are so thinly dilineated, they appear comic, rather than  operating as true dramatic foils to Heyst.  Conrad attempts to counter the  comic shallowness of his vilains by dressing them in Satan's clothing. The  &quot;Paradise Lost&quot; motif is one of the most obvious in the book,  yet, like most of Conrad's themes here, it leads nowhere, ultimately. Adam  and Eve are represented by Lena and Heyst. Satan is a bit more ambiguous,  only insofar as he is represented in composite by Jones and Ricardo.<br />The  Genesis and Miltonic backdrop really picks up steam in part 111, when Heyst  announces &quot;There must be a lot of the original Adam in me after  all.&quot; While representations of Lena as Eve are slightly more subtle,  they are abundant nevertheless. The repeated image of Lena standing before  Heyst with her hair cascading down over her white shoulders vividly recalls  Milton's depictions of the &quot;mother of mankind.&quot; Lest we have any  doubts about it, Heyst tells Lena &quot;You are different. Woman is the  tempter.&quot;<br />Jones and Ricardo as a Satanic composite takes a slightly  closer reading to get at: &quot;Mr Jones's teeth were suddenly started  chattering by another faint puff of wind, a mere sigh from the west, where  Venus cast her rays on the dark edge of the horizon, like a bright lamp  hung above the grave of the sun.&quot; One would have to have some  familiarity with Milton and with the Old Testament to catch the Satanic  reference here. In Isa. xiv, 12, the prophet refers to Venus as  &quot;Lucifer, son of the morning.&quot; Milton associates Satan with  &quot;the morning star&quot; (PL V). More often than not, however, Conrad  is not this subtle. Jones (Satan in rebellion) identifies himself as  &quot;He that is'&quot; when talking to Heyst. This places Heyst in  apposition to that other Supernatural Being who tells Moses &quot;I am that  I am.&quot; Elsewhere, Jones tells Heyst that he has been  &quot;ejected&quot; from his proper sphere, &quot;because he had refused to  conform to certain usual conventions...he was a rebel now, and was coming  and going up and down the earth.&quot; Ricardo, who represents Satan in  activity, talks often of not having to crawl about on his belly anymore.  When he attacks Lena, Conrad describes him as a serpent, with his arms  pinned to his sides andhis body sawying like a cobra's. Lest we should  still be in the dark about Lena's Eve function, we learn (again from the  omniscient narrator who can see into people's dreams)that Lena has had a  dream of foreboding, which parallels Eve's precognitive dream in PL. As an  even more convincing proof, we see Lena in a conquering pose, her foot  above Ricardo's head, recalling The Angel's message in the final book of PL  that Eve's descendent will vanquish Satan and hold his head  underfoot.<br />All that said, Conrad, even when operating at less than peak  capacity, is still a more interesting novelist than 99% of all others. But  for those who want to read a perfectly-crafted, controlled and masterfully  written novel, I would suggest they turn to Nostromo. Then come back to  this book and read it for enjoyment, for it's still a good read, just not  as fulfilling as literature.nd his body sawying like a cobra's. Lest we should  still be in the dark about Lena's Eve function, we learn (again from the  omniscient narrator who can see into people's dreams)that Lena has had a  dream of foreboding, which parallels Eve's precognitive dream in PL. As an  even more convincing proof, we see Lena in a conquering pose, her foot  above Ricardo's head, recalling The Angel's message in the final book of PL  that Eve's descendent will vanquish Satan and hold his head  underfoot.<br />All that said, Conrad, even when operating at less than peak  capacity, is still a more interesting novelist than 99% of all others. But  for those who want to read a perfectly-crafted, controlled and masterfully  written novel, I would suggest they turn to Nostromo. Then come back to  this book and read it for enjoyment, for it's still a good read, just not  as fulfilling as literature.	2000-06-12
US	50747141	R1T07DOKM0CY4L	0156283158	552233833	Ellis Island and Other Stories	Books	3	19	24	N	Y	Not a Good Jumping-Off Point	I have to preface my comments by stating that though I was dissappointed with this collection, I remain an ardent fan of Mark Helperin. A Soldier of the Great War is one of the most finely-realized novels of the past twenty  years. It's in many ways unfare to compare a writer's masterpiece with a  collection of short-stories written 25 years earlier. But simply as  someone making recommendations to other readers, I would suggest starting  with a writer's magnum opus and working one's way back from there. I'd  recommend reading The Brother's Karamazov before suggesting Poor Folk, for  instance, or Anna Karenina before the Kreutzer Sonata.<br />What Ellis Island  represents is a writer still in the process of finding his footing. We see  in many of these stories the genesis of what will become the themes and  motifs that will preoccupy the mature artist. The characters are consumed  by romanticism and wanderlust, even the Vermont cranes who occupy a central  position in the collection. The writing is lyrical and quite often moving.  At times, however,it comes across as too consciously poetic, the metaphors  forced. While Helperin strives for Joycean epiphanies, his endings too  often come off as carelessly constructed fade-outs. This is particularly  true of &quot;The Schreuderspitze&quot; and &quot;Martin Bayer.&quot; I  agree, however, with the reader who singled out &quot;A Vermont Tale&quot;  for praise. It stands out in this volume as a forerunner for the type of  controlled symbolism Helperin will later perfect. It really is, to use a  hackneyed term, a &quot;haunting&quot; tale.<br />The title-piece of this  collection, &quot;Ellis Island,&quot; was the source of my biggest  let-down. The narrator, who goes by several names (as the mood hits or the  situation dictates), is a thoroughly unsympathetic character, in my  opinion, and I really don't believe Helperin intended him as such. The  setting is turn-of-the century New York and &quot;Moishe&quot; (we'll call  him that to avoid confusion here) arrives at Ellis Island along with a  boatload of Jewish immigrants. When he is inspected, his odd demeanor  causes the agent to lable him as an anarchist and he is shunted off along  with other undesireables to be deported. He is saved from his situation by  a red-haired Scandinavian beauty who presents herself herself at an  opportune moment (for some reason couples are allowed more readily into the  New World than singles). When finally ashore in New York, Moishe sets off  on a series of improbable adventures (this is where the &quot;magical  realism&quot; comes in). He has a brief affair with a &quot;beautiful&quot;  artist's model (Helperin's characters never settle for plain-looking  women)and finally beds down and settles with a &quot;beautiful&quot;  seamstress. Finally he recalls the compact he'd made with the  &quot;beautiful&quot;, red-haired Dane and returns to Ellis Island (and  here I don't want to spoil the ending for readers who haven't read it yet).  Suffice it to say, however, that the ending intentionally parallels the  ending of &quot;A Vermont Tale,&quot; involving the loons. Let's also just  leave off by saying that the ending didn't &quot;work&quot; for me and left  me feeling that Moishe comes across as less than heroic, which Helperin  hasn't led us to expect.<br />If this series of stories had been written by  an author for whom I had lower expectations, I would have awarded it 4  stars. My standards were set so high by &quot;A Soldier,&quot; however,  that I had to settle on three. Definitely give his novels a try if you  haven't already done so.ll  him that to avoid confusion here) arrives at Ellis Island along with a  boatload of Jewish immigrants. When he is inspected, his odd demeanor  causes the agent to lable him as an anarchist and he is shunted off along  with other undesireables to be deported. He is saved from his situation by  a red-haired Scandinavian beauty who presents herself herself at an  opportune moment (for some reason couples are allowed more readily into the  New World than singles). When finally ashore in New York, Moishe sets off  on a series of improbable adventures (this is where the &quot;magical  realism&quot; comes in). He has a brief affair with a &quot;beautiful&quot;  artist's model (Helperin's characters never settle for plain-looking  women)and finally beds down and settles with a &quot;beautiful&quot;  seamstress. Finally he recalls the compact he'd made with the  &quot;beautiful&quot;, red-haired Dane and returns to Ellis Island (and  here I don't want to spoil the ending for readers who haven't read it yet).  Suffice it to say, however, that the ending intentionally parallels the  ending of &quot;A Vermont Tale,&quot; involving the loons. Let's also just  leave off by saying that the ending didn't &quot;work&quot; for me and left  me feeling that Moishe comes across as less than heroic, which Helperin  hasn't led us to expect. <br />If this series of stories had been written by  an author for whom I had lower expectations, I would have awarded it 4  stars. My standards were set so high by &quot;A Soldier,&quot; however,  that I had to settle on three. Definitely give his novels a try if you  haven't already done so.	2000-06-10
US	50747141	R1GB8T60SXOQIO	0375703764	383727435	House of Leaves	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Now Seriously, Folks!	I'm more than slightly amazed at the amount of hype surrounding this novel. I don't believe the author takes himself half so seriously as his growing legions of champions do. Comparing a first novel, chock-full of  flaws and misguided attempts at erudition to Nabakov displays to me a  serious misappropriation of judgement. To quote from  Hudibras:<br />&quot;Still the less they understand,<br /> The more they admire  the sleight-of-hand&quot;<br />That said, I believe Danielewski has the  makings of a highly talented author, if he can find a way to channel his  creative energy. I know that I probably come off as sounding like one of  the writing seminar professors at Yale who rejected him (an event he  recounts in his novel), but the boy still needs some guidance. If logorrhea  were a literary virtue, our candidate would succeed with flying colors. He  can go on and on and on and he loves, no doubt, to see his words printed in  sundry forms upon a page.<br />For those who think the textual form of this  book is some sort of ground-breaking innovation, I would refer you to  Tristram Shandy, written over 200 years ago. In a &quot;Book Page&quot;  interview, Danielewski acknowledges the influence of e.e. cummings, whose  concrete poetry he emulates here. He doesn't mention George Herbert and  several other metaphysical poets who were writing in the 17th century,  using similar devices (I'm not implying he's not aware of them, merely that  he doesn't cite the influence.)<br />I don't necessarily believe that a  narrative must be linear to be cohesive. There are too many proofs in  modern, post-modern, and post-post-modern literature that would belie such  a dictum. I have no problem with authors playing with structure,  points-of-view, am not bothered by self-referential games, doppleganger  hijinx, wordplay, etc. What I'd like to see is some sort of intelligence at  work on the part of teh gamemaster. This is why a Nabakov or a Paul Auster  or a Pynchon can get away with whatever creative flights they want to with  me. I'm going to buy into their abandonment of the rules. I'll even let  them make the rules up as they go along, because I know that I'm going to  be rewarded in the end by my participation. I tried very hard to keep  playing Danielewski's game, but it really turned into a redundant exercise.<br />  I have little quarrel with the Johnny Truant narrative. It drifts into  purple haze territory at times but manages to sustain my interest. It reads  a bit like a Stephen Wright novel, lots of drugs, paranoia, and human  savagery. The Navidson passages border on the truly trite. I suppose that  if you found the Blair Witch Project compelling cinema, it would prove  equally engrossing. The old &quot;scholars&quot; text, where the footnotes  really start getting baroque, left me practically fuming over why I had  invested any time in reading them. They are supposed to sound Borgesian,  and instead sound like they come from a ninety year old Hunter Thompson on  bad acid.<br />Unfortunately, Danielewski saves his worst for last. The  epliogue material featuring the letters that Truant's mother wrote him from  the asylum, are among the most banal examples of prose I've ever  encountered on a printed page.<br />As you can see, there is not a great deal  I like about this novel. But again, this writer can't be dismissed, just  hopefully harnessed. He has moments of real brilliance. He'll hit on a  metaphor or convey a dead-on-target insight that will floor you. Hopefully,  he will find his true voice and we will see a really important talent  emerge in the future.ith whatever creative flights they want to with  me. I'm going to buy into their abandonment of the rules. I'll even let  them make the rules up as they go along, because I know that I'm going to  be rewarded in the end by my participation. I tried very hard to keep  playing Danielewski's game, but it really turned into a redundant exercise.  <br />  I have little quarrel with the Johnny Truant narrative. It drifts into  purple haze territory at times but manages to sustain my interest. It reads  a bit like a Stephen Wright novel, lots of drugs, paranoia, and human  savagery. The Navidson passages border on the truly trite. I suppose that  if you found the Blair Witch Project compelling cinema, it would prove  equally engrossing. The old &quot;scholars&quot; text, where the footnotes  really start getting baroque, left me practically fuming over why I had  invested any time in reading them. They are supposed to sound Borgesian,  and instead sound like they come from a ninety year old Hunter Thompson on  bad acid. <br />Unfortunately, Danielewski saves his worst for last. The  epliogue material featuring the letters that Truant's mother wrote him from  the asylum, are among the most banal examples of prose I've ever  encountered on a printed page.<br />As you can see, there is not a great deal  I like about this novel. But again, this writer can't be dismissed, just  hopefully harnessed. He has moments of real brilliance. He'll hit on a  metaphor or convey a dead-on-target insight that will floor you. Hopefully,  he will find his true voice and we will see a really important talent  emerge in the future.	2000-05-31
US	50747141	R1W3661PNS4MH3	0385313861	504703944	Going Native	Books	5	28	39	N	N	The Most Inventive Novel of the 90s	You've got to love Amazon readers! There were at last count, 580 reviews of Grisham's The Brethren, and 10 (counting mine) so far of this vibrant, challenging, tour-de-force novel. I think this state of affairs would put a  sardonic smile on Wright's phiz. It comes as no surprise that the reader  from New Jersey didn't like Going Native. One look at his &quot;more about  me&quot; list of reviews will tell you why (no offense, guy).<br />If you  love satire of the darkest variety and enjoy reading authors who don't rely  on cliches or hack conventions in painting their portraits, then give this  one a go. It's the most mordantly humorous book I've picked up since I last  read Celine. If Wright's view of American culture is too jaundiced for you,  then I would suggest you stick to the sugar-coated variety of fiction that  meets your requirements. There's nothing sweet about this vision. If you're  afraid of having a bad trip, avoid this book. Because if you open these  pages, you are, in Betty Davis' vernacular, &quot;in for a bumpy  ride.&quot; If you can't handle the truth, look elsewhere.<br />This is one of  the four or five books that are automatically on my list of recommendations  whenever someone approaches me on the subject of reading. Absolutely more  than five stars.	2000-05-30
US	50747141	R2YEP5OQSEGVIC	0156007754	787923440	Blindness (Harvest Book)	Books	5	201	224	N	Y	A Great High-Wire Act	Blindness is my introduction to Saramago. A good friend at Amazon suggested this writer to me. Though he'd won a Nobel, I'd never heard of him, which comes as no surprise as I've read only about half the Nobel  winners' and am totally in the dark when it comes to about 15 names on the  list.<br />What strikes me most stongly about this book is the author's  challenges he sets up for himself early on. As more and more characters are  introduced, the challenge of keeping track of who is speaking and who is  where mounts exponentially. I kept saying to myself &quot;How's he going to  do it when the wards fill up?&quot; As noted throughout the reviews,  Saramago does not provide us with the usual authorial roadmap.<br />What  surprises me is that only one other reviewer (Michael Lima) mentioned that  this stylistic maneuvering is a great metaphor for the subject matter. As  readers, we are disoriented by the lack of accustomed punctuation, among  other things. We have to pause sometimes to get our bearings. &quot;Who  said that?&quot; we ask ourselves. It's exactly appropos to the way the  blind characters react in the novel. Saramago wants the reader disoriented  so that the empathy we feel for his characters becomes more pronounced. We  share an awareness of what they are experiencing first-hand. We too have to  grope our way in the dark, without the usual guideposts.  The characters  go unnamed. As one of the chracters thinks to himself,&quot;names are of no  importance here.&quot; We know them only as &quot;the first blind man&quot;  or the &quot;girl with dark glasses&quot; or &quot;the doctor's wife.&quot;  One reviewer objected to this device, citing &quot;the dog of tears&quot;  as an example of Saramago's ineptitude. I would counter that this is  another intentional choice on Saramago's part to maintain the purity of his  allegory. Characters in true allegory are never specified by common name.  Just think of Spenser's &quot;The Fairy Queen&quot; or Bunyan's  &quot;Pilgrim's Progress&quot; and you'll see what I mean. Saramago's  characters operate as universal types in large part because they are  nameless.<br />  Often, Saramago provides us with stunning imagery, as in this  example when the opthalmologist first discovers he is blind: &quot;He  turned to where a mirror was, and this time he did not wonder, What's going  on, he did not say, There are a thousand reasons why the human brain should  close down, he simply stretched out his hands to touch the glass, he knew  that his image was there watching him, his image could see him, he could  not see his image.&quot;<br />  My only criticisms of the work are minor.  They usually have to do with suspension of disbelief. I had to wonder why  the doctor's wife didn't seize the thug's gun for instance after he was  down. Also, when she entered the basement of the store, why didn't she  first get a flashlight? Certainly that wouldn't have been an item that  would have been hard to find under the circumstances. I also had a bit of  difficulty digesting some of Saramago's homilies and folksy philosophizing,  as in &quot;her fingers brushed against the dead petals, how fragile life  is when it is abandoned,&quot; or later: &quot;...but none of us, lamps,  dogs or humans, knows at the outset, why we have come into this  world.&quot; Not exactly the most profound material around.<br />I would also  differ with those who maitain that the narrative is detached or distant.  Sometimes I found it obtrusive, as in the narrator's description of a  statement made by the girl with dark glasses: &quot;...surprisingly, if we  consider that we are dealing with a person without much education, the girl  with the dark glasses said, Inside us there is something that has no name,  that something is what we are.&quot; I would hold that this is a pretty  condescending remark, intimating that a person with little formal education  can come up with anything resembling profundity (which by the way, itdoesn't anyway). There may be a hint of sexism creeping in here as well.<br />  Please do not, however, let these few quibbles put you off from reading  the book. It really does belong in the modern classical cannon along with  Kazanzakis, the writer he most reminds me of. I have ordered The Gospel  According to Jesus Christ, both on the strength of my response to this  book, and because it came even more highly recommended by my friend at  Amazon. I'm really looking forward to reading it.it  doesn't anyway). There may be a hint of sexism creeping in here as well.<br />   Please do not, however, let these few quibbles put you off from reading  the book. It really does belong in the modern classical cannon along with  Kazanzakis, the writer he most reminds me of. I have ordered The Gospel  According to Jesus Christ, both on the strength of my response to this  book, and because it came even more highly recommended by my friend at  Amazon. I'm really looking forward to reading it.	2000-05-30
US	50747141	R3L90X9JZIOQKK	0786703687	713204971	The Devils of Loudun	Books	5	49	52	N	N	A Lesser-Known, but Important Addition to the Huxley Cannon	This book received some attention when Ken Russel's movie came out in the early 70's. Before and since it's been pretty much neglected, which is a shame. In my estimation, Huxley is one of the foremost masters of prose  writing in the English language. Those who are unfamiliar with his essays  should seek them out. His was a mind that ranged far and probed deeply.  The incidents portrayed in this book are indeed bizarre. It will remind  some of Arthur Miller's The Crucible, in that a group of young women, in  this case nuns, fall victim to mass hysteria. A local priest, Father  Grandet, becomes the fall-guy and the true victim of a superstition-riddled  Inquisition.<br />I'm sorry to see that this book is currently unavailable.  It's really one of the most interesting historical accounts that I've ever  read. Actually, Whiting's play, based on the same incident, is also  excellent. I have mixed feelings about Russell's film. I thought Vanessa  Redgrave was remarkable and Oliver Reed was very good, but Russell went too  often over the top as is his wont.<br />If you can't find this book online,  perhaps you will come across it in a used-bookstore or, if you are luckier  than I am and have a well-stocked library, you can find it there. You  shouldn't pass up the opportunity if you want to have a satisfying and  unusual reading experience.	2000-05-30
US	50747141	R11ZMMA9MVOB34	0140441735	891100811	Rameau's Nephew and D'Alembert's Dream (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	56	59	N	Y	Not Candide, but still great fun	This is probably Diderot's most widely read work in English translation. There is good reason for it. Rather than strict philosophical treatises, Rameau's Nephew and D'Alembert's Dream are a series of comic dilogues which  serve as vehicles to attack conventional 18th century social mores and  theology.  In the first book, Rameau, who is an actual historical figure,  the nephew of the famed composer, runs into the narrator (Diderot) in a  parisian cafe where games of chess are going on around them. Rameau is one  of the great comic creations of 18th century French literature. He is a  cross between Lear's fool and Dostoevsky's Underground Man. Like the fool,  he gets away (until recently) with saying outrageous things to his  benefactor's faces, because they tend to regard him as a buffoon. Like the  underground man, he is constantly vacillating in terms of his self-image.  For the most part he excoriates himself and even seems to revel in the fact  that he has brought his misery upon himself. This is in fact a rather  ennobling trait, and probably part of the reason that Diderot doesn't  dismiss him out of hand. Rameau really doesn't blame others. He accepts  resposibility for getting himself kicked out of his rich sponsor's  household. He also blames himself for the loss of his attractive young  wife.  Diderot's descriptions of Rameau's japery is hilarious. Rameau is  an accomplished mimic. He performs an entire opera there in the cafe,  singing all the parts and providing his own unorthodox instrumental  accompaniment. Diderot writes: &quot;What didn't he do? He wept, laughed,  sighed, his gaze was tender, soft or furious: a woman swooning with grief,  a poor wretch abandoned in the depth of despair, a temple rising into view,  birds falling silent at eventide, waters murmuring in a cool, solitary  place or tumbling in torrents down the mountainside, a thunderstorm, a  hurricane, the shrieks of the dying mingled with the howling of the tempest  and the crash of thunder; night with its shadows, darkness and silence, for  even silence itself can be depicted in sound. By now he was quite beside  himself. Knocked up with fatigue, like a man coming out of a deep sleep or  a long trance, he stood there motionless, dazed, astonished, looking about  him and trying to recognize his surroundings.&quot;  Yet, as Diderot the  narrator acknowledges, there is method to Rameau's madness. Again like  Lear's fool, truth is to be mined beneath the jester's antics. Within the  context of the flippant diologue, Diderot addresses many of the philophical  concerns that were coming to the fore at the time of the enlightenment.  There is a groping towards a definition of evolution that predates Darwin  in some respects. There is even a brief discussion of social, vs. gentetic  engineering (sustitute &quot;gene: for Diderot's &quot;molecule&quot;). On  man's natural state, which was so integral to Rousseu's optimistic  philosophy, here is what Diderot has to say: &quot;If the little brute were  left to himself and kept in his native ignorance, combining the undeveloped  mind with the violent passions of a man of thirty, he would wring his  father's neck and sleep with his mother.&quot; Remind you of any 20th  century father of psychology?  D'Alembert's Dream , the  companion-piece in this edition, is less entertaining than Rameau's Nephew,  but still worth reading. The conceit doesn't work quite as well and the  diologue tends to get bogged down at times. For students of the history of  philosophy it makes for a lot less dry reading than Hobbes or Descartes  however. I was surprised at what a big influence Lucretius must have had on  Diderot (something I missed when I first read this work 20 years ago - but  then I hadn't read Lucretius &quot;On the Nature of the Universe&quot; at  that point). I would definitely recommend reading Leonard Tancock's  introduction to both these works, not only for an overview of the subjects  that Diderot is tackling, but for the intersting family backgrounds of  D'Alembert (who was a revered mathematician and a contributor, along with  Diderot and Voltaire to the monumental &quot;Encyclopedie&quot;)and  Mademoiselle L'Espinasse.is tackling, but for the intersting family backgrounds of  D'Alembert (who was a revered mathematician and a contributor, along with  Diderot and Voltaire to the monumental &quot;Encyclopedie&quot;)and  Mademoiselle L'Espinasse.	2000-05-27
US	50747141	R220OPZS75FP5G	0684864185	505379162	Manchild in the Promised Land	Books	5	33	34	N	N	Taught me about Life on the streets	This was without doubt the most important book I read as a teenager. I moved to NYC from California when I was twelve and was pretty naive in the workings of the city. Reading this book when I was 13 helped me immensely.  It was a street-wise primer for survival at the time (we're talking 1964).  But I would hold that the subject matter is just as relevant today. If you  don't know about a &quot;Jones&quot; or what makes a three-card-monty mark  want to come back for more, then I suggest you are just as vulnerable as I  was. It's also one of the all-time cautionary tales (without being preachy)  about drug addiction. I did a lot of drugs in the late 60's, early 70's,  but never touched heroin, primarily from reading this book. The writing,  while maybe not on the level of Richard Wright, surpasses Malcom X's and  Eldridge Cleaver's memoirs, and that's saying something, as those were both  powerful works as well.	2000-05-27
US	50747141	R2YO0SUJELSUYV	0140440585	272121911	Metamorphoses (Penguin Classics ed.)	Books	4	17	28	N	N	from the &quot;bad boy&quot; of Augustan Rome	The Emperor Augustus did not appreciate Ovid in any large degree. He found Virgil and Horace much more agreeable, as those poets tended to buttress the status quo, whereas Ovid tended to undermine it. Personally I am a  great fan of Virgil's. He was one of the greatest poets who ever lived. His  Aeneid is just as vital today as the day he wrote it. Horace, on the other  hand, has never incited much of a response. He's pretty dry in comparison.  Ovid, on the other hand, probably would have been a blast to hang out with.  His poetry is ribald, yet informed with a thorough knowledge of the myth  and literature that has come before him. He would have been a man who had a  vast sense of humor mixed with erudition, in other words. This is generally  the sort I would choose for a friend if such were available in our present  age. I don't know if this is helpful, but this is how I sometimes tend to  classify writers. Some I admire, but wouldn't want to sit across from  him/her at a dinner table (Eugene O'Neill, my revered Dostoevsky, Sylvia  Plath, the redoubtable Celine - he'd be the last guy I'd want to break  bread with- Sartre (what a bummer!), Ibsen, Kierkegard, etc. But I'd love  to party with Seutonius, Ovid, Diderot, Voltaire, Moliere, Hugo and either  of the Bronte sisters. What a high time that would be! Apart from the  rambling, this is an excellent translation of one of the most important  works, in terms of influence, in the western cannon. Ovid had a primary  impact on every poet who ever picked up a quill or a pen or typed a phrase  on a keyboard who came after him. Talk about seminal literature. He made  the love poem modern. Everything, apart perhaps from Sappho, had been  wooden and stilted before &quot;The Metamorphosis.&quot; He was the D H  Lawrence of Rome. That is the reason the Imperial censors tried to surpress  his work, just as the modern courts tried to surpress Lady Chatterly. Thank  posterity neither succeeded.	2000-05-26
US	50747141	R23EUI4KZTHEZE	0140444300	996904481	Les Miserables (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	30	33	N	Y	Hugo - The Real Master of the House	I'm glad to see so many young people drawn to the book via the musical or the movie versions. If there were one writer I would want to know on a personal basis via his work it would have been Victor Hugo. He must have  had an enormously generous heart and spirit as evidenced by his writing.  This is probably the most sympathetic, almost God-like perspective of  humanity that I have ever come across in literature. And what a sweeping  cyclorama Hugo portrays. From the fields of Waterloo to the sewers of  Paris, Hugo's eye of god sees everything. The Waterloo passages are often  discarded in the abridgements, but to me they play an important part in  allowing the reader to pull back and look at things from this god-like  point-of-view. The great panoramic macrocosm of history is seen in  conjunction with the vivid details of Jean Valjean's microcosmic struggle.  Of course the characters, which I thought were rather cleverly encapsulated  in the musical, are here given their true range and scope. That Hugo loved  these characters is abundantly clear. This love is absorbed by the reader.  Every time Jabert comes close to capturing Jean, it is as if we were in  Jean's shoes.  Hugo far outshines Dickens in his depiction of lower class  existence in a 19th century European city. His Paris is inhabited by much  more convincing urchins. All his characters in fact, are much more  believable. Dickens is much more overtly sentimental. Hugo lets the story  affect the reader. There is no sense of straining to convey an effect. With  Dickens, I am always aware of the puppetmaster straining to get a point  across. He is a polemical writer compared to Hugo. He relies on  heavy-handed bathos. Hugo remains much more in the background and we are  left essentially unaware of his machinations. That's why, for me, I respond  more viscerally to Hugo as I respond more depply to great art in general.  My primary appeal to readers is that they don't do Hugo the disservice of  reading an abridged version of this novel. You may not be all that  interested in the causes behind the rebellion that led to Marius's mounting  of the barricade, but I assure you you will not be bored by the lengthier  version. Great writers don't waste their time on superfluous details. Every  word is there for a reason. Let the Master of the House display his wares  in full.ged version of this novel. You may not be all that  interested in the causes behind the rebellion that led to Marius's mounting  of the barricade, but I assure you you will not be bored by the lengthier  version. Great writers don't waste their time on superfluous details. Every  word is there for a reason. Let the Master of the House display his wares  in full.	2000-05-24
US	50747141	R26QEQ9XPKILY	0460871919	751067545	Nostromo: A Tale of the Seaboard (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	60	67	N	N	masterwork from a master writer	Conrad is my favorite 20th century author, so I am biased. The reviewer who compared him to Tolstoy was on the money. Both lived lives that gave them fodder for their fiction; Tolstoy as a soldier in the Crimean war, an  aristocrat facing the turbulence of the political and social upheavals of  fin-de-siecle Russia, and Conrad as a mariner and a Polish transplant who  carved out a language and a career for himself in England. Nostromo  contains some of the most vividly realized characterization, plot, and  sensory detail of any novel ever written in the English language, period.  Do not pay any attention to a customer whose review is based on listening  to the audio tape version. It doesn't do the book justice and is indeed  labored to the extreme. I would also hope that readers do not form their  opinions from the BBC film. It is infinitely shallow by comparison to this  rich work. While the &quot;eponymous&quot; character remains purposefully  enigmatic, the other inhabitants of Costaguena are stereoscopically fleshed  out. We are on intimate terms with the Goulds. We know Decoud's innermost  thoughts. It's true that Decoud is the central character of this novel. His  isolation and mental defragmentation is Conrad's arguement for and  refuation of existentialism. We are all islands, yet no man is in island.  Take your pick. This is a very large piece of fiction. Do not approch it as  you would some best seller. It's not going to entertain you on every page.  What it will do is reward you in riches that can never come cheaply. Yet it  is not like Finnegan's Wake, where you have to have your Boedekker's guide  to see you along your journey. It's also a great adventure story, with a  larger than life hero. If I could suggest one book to represent the most  finely crafted novel of its era, this would be it.	2000-05-24
US	50747141	R1QRS2T8LJ3UYV	0440221919	704818523	The Blood Countess	Books	2	9	14	N	N	B Movie Material from a Likeable Source	I wanted to like this book. I really enjoy Codrescu's essays on NPR, especially when they touch on topics pertaining to New Orleans, where I lived for five years. I also thought the subject matter had some potential.  Unfortunately, he is trying too hard to follow in the footsteps of his  fellow New Orleanian, Anne Rice. The portrayal of the countess is really  unconvincing. She wants eternal youth. Ok, so? She comes across as about as  complex as the evil queen in Disney's Snow White. The &quot;present  day&quot; subplot makes the game, Clue, seem like an Umberto Eco  masterpiece of intricacy. For readers who want a complex representation of  a reprehensible villain of the middle ages, go to Joris Karl Huysmans' La  Bas for his depiction of Gilles de Rais, who made the Marquis de Sade look  like a neophyte. Codrescu should stick to what he does best - write clever  essays for NPR. He's no great shakes as a novelist.	2000-05-23
US	50747141	RH62PS0PC9GF3	0812590961	871989064	Aztec Autumn	Books	2	14	15	N	N	A Major Letdown	In Aztec, Jennings came close to producing a modern prose epic,a panoramic picture of an infinitely interesting, sadly vanishedculture. Aztec Autumn, unfortunately, cannot measure up to the earlier effort. If Jennings had had more artistic sense, he wouldn't have released it, but there were probably so much pressure from his publishers and his literary agent that he couldn't help but try to cash in on his earlier success.  The most telling weakness of this novel is Jennings' reliance on gratuitous sex scenes to keep the story moving. This device was beginning to wear on me in Journeyer, but by this stage it is beyond banal, and I am by no means a prude. He was simply running out of ideas, so he succombed to the Harold Robbins school of best-sellers. If you want to read a truly dumbed-down version of Aztec (one of the greatest &quot;reads&quot; of all time) fork over your money for this one.	2000-05-22
US	50747141	R19ZEYN0MJCM39	0140441476	178013325	Fathers and Sons (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	31	41	N	N	an ageless look at intergenerational conflict	I'm still a little disoriented at this Amazon site. I'm not sure if this is the Edmonds translation circa 1960s or not. That is when I first read this novel and it is the copy I still own. The Penguin Classics version is  the one I am referring to. I've written other critiques, thinking I was  talking about Penguins, only to subsequently discover I was on the wrong  entry. If this is indeed the Edmonds-Penguin edition, let me first refer  the reader to the eloquent and unsurpassed introduction by Isaiah Berlin.  It runs for 50+ pages, but is the most precise, uncorrupted look at  mid-19th century Russian literature that I have come across. If you want a  supreme overview by a great thinker on a great subject, go directly to this  introduction, do not pass go. If you have even indirectly perused The New  York Review of Books, you know who Berlin is, and how revered a thinker he  is. Here he sums up pre-revolutionary Russia in a few pithy phrases. He  also speaks for me and for those of my particular generation who are caught  between ideologies, as the &quot;liberals&quot; in Turgenev's time were. On  Turgenev, the author: &quot;He went on believing - perhaps this was a relic  of his Hegelian youth - that no issue was closed for ever, that every  thesis must be weighed against its antithesis, that systems and absolutes  of every kind - social aand political no less than religious - were a form  of dangerous idolatry.&quot; This is a novel about a  &quot;superfluous&quot; man who was trapped between ideologies in 19th  centrury Russia, when the young &quot;nihilists&quot; were at odds with the  old-line liberals. This is what makes the novel so relevant in any age.  There are always going to be clashes between generations and between those  who hope for the &quot;de-struction&quot; of an old edifice for an only  partially imagined design for a new one. Turgenev presents us with perhaps  the most truthful representation of this timeless, generational conflict.  Russian literature is essentially a triumvirate : Tolstoy, Dostoevsky,  Turgenev. If I were a manager, I would probably have Turgenev bat leadoff.  He gets his point across better than the other two, though he doesn't have  the bat speed. Chekov or Pushkin (though not in the triumvirate) could bat  second, depending on who was hot at the time. I would have a really  difficult time deciding between Tolstoy or Dostoevsky for clean-up hitter.  E-mail me for your votes. I would also like some reader feedaback as to the  origin of the word &quot;nihilst&quot; or nihilism. I doubt sincerely  whether Turgenev coined the term. It sounds more like Bakunin or Herzen to  me. What are your thoughts on the subject?n literature is essentially a triumvirate : Tolstoy, Dostoevsky,  Turgenev. If I were a manager, I would probably have Turgenev bat leadoff.  He gets his point across better than the other two, though he doesn't have  the bat speed. Chekov or Pushkin (though not in the triumvirate) could bat  second, depending on who was hot at the time. I would have a really  difficult time deciding between Tolstoy or Dostoevsky for clean-up hitter.  E-mail me for your votes. I would also like some reader feedaback as to the  origin of the word &quot;nihilst&quot; or nihilism. I doubt sincerely  whether Turgenev coined the term. It sounds more like Bakunin or Herzen to  me. What are your thoughts on the subject?	2000-05-21
US	50747141	RA7JH7P0KUXG4	0812521463	477457064	Aztec	Books	5	29	32	N	N	my all time favorite read	If you want a novel that has everything (adventure, history, sex, story-line, characterization, debunking of myths, humor, horror, human insight, etc.) this is IT! Jennings novel has to rank as one of the  all-time stories for story's sake. Echoing other reviewers here, I  was  absolutely ticked off that the story had to come to a close. Unfortunately,  I was equally disappointed by Jennings' subsequent tries at emulating this  storytelling feat (particularly Aztec Autumn - what a bust!) The author  apparently used up all his creative powers in constructing and researching  this novel. Yet if I could have done even half as good a job as Jennings  did in writing Aztec, my life would have been heroic! This is as close to  creative genius as any historical novelist has come to in our era. I am not  prone to hyperbole in my reviews, but if you haven't yet read this book,  you are missing out on one of the true treats of contemporary fiction.  Order it, now!	2000-05-21
US	50747141	R1SM8D6BJ3WJOB	0380715899	47509404	A Soldier of the Great War	Books	5	16	19	N	N	A Farewell to Arms for the 90's	Helprin is a first-rate author, as has been attested to many times. This is his masterwork, in my opinion. Though not without its flaws, the book is a real testament to the craft of writing. I was awed by the amount of  research Helprin must have done before writing this book. He obviously  spent a great deal of time in Italy and his descriptions of Rome and of the  Italian countryside are particularly vivid. The love-story is never sapid  or oversentimentalized. But it is wrenching. My only quibble is that  Allesandro might be just a bit too perfect. If he bumbled occasionally or  expressed something other than supreme self confidence on all occasions, he  would have been a bit more believable. I guess I enjoyed him more as an old  man (at least he's somewhat more vulnerable then). This book really has a  bit of everything: suspense, intrigue, romance, war, bravery, loss,  nostalgia, you-name-it. Because of the setting and the era depicted, some  readers may be reminded of Hemingway's WWI novel. I believe Helprin  surpasses Hemingway in terms of descriptive brilliance and in bringing the  era to life. I also think he succeeds in a greater measure in making his  readers care about his characters. I'd give this book ten stars if I could.  An absolutely superb story told by a brilliant storyteller.	2000-05-18
US	50747141	R34AM0FWK6NOVJ	0452275717	101095262	Welcome to Hard Times	Books	5	49	50	N	N	Welcome to the Real , Real West	This is Doctorow's sleeper novel. It hasn't received much critical attention in comparison to his other works, but this one is a real gem. It provides us with a picture of what kind of hardscrabble existence the  western settlers actually endured, as opposed to the sanitized images  Hollywood has provided us. The only other author I've seen perform this so  effectively is Harte Crane. The characters are stereotypes (the bullying  villain - the noble prostitute - the unwilling hero, etc) but Doctorow  invests the plot with enough quirky twists and injects enough black humor  to keep the reader from noticing how one-dimensional the characters are.  And they do undergo transformations, which keeps them from remaining so  one-dimensional. If you are a Doctorow fan or are just looking for a  diverting, yet intelligent read, give this one a try.	2000-05-18
US	50747141	R1RHNTL347SVOO	0451522273	691105951	Ethan Frome (Signet Classics)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	why on the curriculum?	I have to admit, I found this book a slow go when I had to read it as a Freshman in prep-school. But the fact that it was set in New England and that it dealt with  a depressing winter landscape and a remorseless cast of  characters, such  as I was then encountering made it unbelievably relevant  at the time. I can relate, however, to the preponderance of young readers  at this site who have expressed their displeasure at having to read it. I  would not wish this vision on a young audience unless I were trying to  impress them with the bleakness of a snow-bound, New England existence  circa 1900. This is a pretty unrelenting picture of the region, outdoing  Frost or Hawthorne or even H.P. Lovecraft for that matter. The sledding  scene is probably one of the most famous set-ups in modern literature.  Wharton is definitely at her most masterly here. She was an exceptional  writer. The question remains, what is the authorial voice saying in terms  of adressing the existential questions raised here? Even the bitterest  denunciations of cosmic forces have some kind of address of reply from 20th  century authors. What is Wharton's here? There is very little mirth in this  house.	2000-05-17
US	50747141	R38CR7Y6XCNES	0440153255	934252199	Hollywood Babylon: The Legendary Underground Classic of Hollywood's Darkest and Best Kept Secrets	Books	4	3	5	N	N	an unadulterated hoot	Looks like a lot of people have gotten worked into a lather around here over this book. Lighten up folks! This isn't meant to be some serious anthropological study of Hollywood and its denizens. Anger's just dishin'  up the dirt and gettin' down with the sleazemongers. A few little anecdotes  about Fatty, Frances, Lupe, et. al are all that's offered up here. I don't  believe it's even meant in a particularly mean-spirited way. It reads more  like black comedy to me.	2000-05-17
US	50747141	R2QIFJNADHP7OI	0786707496	191947686	Serpentine	Books	4	36	39	N	N	an engrossing account of a truly amoral psychopath	I'm not a big fan of the &quot;true crime&quot; genre. I did love Vincent Bugliosi's Helter Skelter, but don't care for Ann Rule's books or their ilk. Serpentine is an exception. Like other reviewers here, I came across  this book about 20 years ago and I still have vivid recollections of it.  Sobhraj is a kind of Ted Bundy with a bit more style and class. Thompson  does a fine job in conveying Sobhraj's seductive qualities. He also is  adept in his description of settings. Sobhraj may be thought of as the only  jet-setter mass-murderer. I didn't realize until reading over these reviews  that he had been released from prison already. That really is diconcerting,  for he is about as amoral as Hannibal Lecter. I can't believe he was  allowed back into society. I would recommend this book to those who like  true crime stories and to those who just like an engaging, easy read. The  book moves along at great pace. If you bring it along on a vacation to Sri  Lanka or Thailand or Paris, etc., you may want to keep an eye out for  Sobhraj. I wouldn't get too chummy if I were you.	2000-05-17
US	50747141	RF5WA34P3HSS5	0679732241	161451712	The Sound and the Fury: The Corrected Text	Books	5	5	8	N	N	everything you need to know about modern lit	Faulkner is often regarded as a &quot;difficult&quot; novelist, and this book is indeed a densely dilineated, complex tome. It is also, however, incredibly straighforward. It is one of those texts that you just have to go with. Turn loose of your preconceptions about fiction and about narrative, and you will be amply rewarded. Faulkner, along with Joyce, was a master of stream-of-consciousness narrative, and this is his masterpiece in that regard. To appreciate such a technique, you must as the Beatles exhorted, &quot;turn off your mind, relax, go downstream.&quot; Go with the flow, no matter you noxious that sounds these days. If you let yourself think for a while as Benjie does, the whole patchwork makes perfect sense. This is a family novel, more than anything else, but it is obviously not about the Waltons. Faulkner made a career out of delineating the disfunction of not only Southern families, but of the South in the era following the ignominious defeat (at least in the minds of many participants) of the local inhabitants. The whole social structure broke down from within, and though no apologist, Faulkner was enough of a realist to depict the society in all its infirm decline. Southern revisionists can come along and deny its accuracy, but for a true picture of ther region in the first half of the 20th century, Faulkner is more accurate than any social historian.	2000-05-16
US	50747141	R3P24HR4CDP73F	0452263492	921712930	Sula	Books	5	3	5	N	N	a tour-de-force	This is my favorite Morrison novel and Morrison is one of my favorite contemporary authors, truly deserving of all the accolades that have come her way. Her writing reminds me in many respects of Gabriel Garcia  Marquez', though I wouldn't include her in the &quot;school&quot; of  magical realism. What they share, primarily, is an insight into the human  condition and a gift for poetic, lyrical expresssion of that condition.  Some of the responses to this book at Amazon come from, I must say,  uninformed and unsophistacated prespectives. Sula is not meant to be a  sympathetic character.In this respect she is similar to the main female  character in As I Lay Dying, by Faulkner, a writer who also populates his  novels with less than savory figures. I would even maintain that Morrison's  perspective is very similar to Faulkner's in many respects. Both share a  keen sense of irony and look at the world without blinders on. Both are  very close to the truth. Morrison's canvas is used to paint a picture that  is not pretty. Neither is life pretty, unless you inhabit some  insulated,Panglossian pocket of the universe. Morrison is a writer of the  first rank, and trust me, there are not many of her calibre writing today.  I would suggest this as a great introduction to her oevre.	2000-05-16
US	50747141	R19KAZV7JVXKV9	0811200175	546348919	Death on the Installment Plan (ND Paperbook)	Books	5	52	60	N	N	The Doctor of Rage	Dr. Destouches, Louis-Ferdinand, whatever you want to call him, this man is the essence of 20th century spleen, frenetic overkill, hyperbolic, high-velocity anathema. He covers all the bases. Nothing is sacred.  Everything known to man and then some is fair game for his unhomogynized,  vituperative rants. And yet it is not hatred of mankind that informs his  venting, it is a weird kind of love. Dr. Destouches was actually a man who  would not turn down a poor patient. He had a sincere love for his wife and  for his cat. He is the preeminent 20th century answer to Swift and to Pope.  He holds mankind up to ridicule. He lambasts the foibles and the rot of  civilization. Yet he also displays vestiges of love and of understanding  beneath the ravings. He abhors the human condition, yet strangely  sympathizes with its common plight. We are all actors in a ridiculous  farce. Life is indeed a tale told by an idiot, signifying nothing, but we  are brother actors, victims of central-casting. There has never before  been, nor will there ever again be, such energy displayed upon a page. The  man had a vision of hell on earth and was never affronted by it. He was  always willing to laugh in response to the pain. His is the consummate  howl, the absurd grin, the &quot;barbaric yawp.&quot;	2000-05-16
US	50747141	R2890A2UPQWW1Y	0452279070	956761338	Ragtime	Books	5	14	15	N	N	a major modern novel	I would differ slightly with Eddie P.(who's insights I appreciate) who likened the novel to Fitzgerald's or Lewis' and say it has more in common with John Dos Passos' USA Trilogy. The vignettes Doctorow draws for us have  a great deal in common, I believe, with Dos Passos' snapshots. In answer to  Banger's question about why this time period, I would suggest that this is  an era that is generally regarded in the American historical consciousness  as being primarily bucolic and carefree. The nation, relatively innocent,  having shaken off the aftereffects of the civil war, has recently won the  spurious Spanish-American war, and is generally revelling in a sense of  purpose and civility. What Doctorow is suggesting is that this serene  surface was already infected, with a host of social ills festering beneath  it. A shift was occuring that would lead to labor riots, race riots, change  in mores (sexual attitudes), loss of faith in institutions, etc. that would  define the 20th century. If this were all of Doctorow's plan however, it  would have been interesting Sociology, but a pretty boring novel. Doctorow  is above all an interesting storyteller. He knows how to keep a plot moving  and how to invest it with enough intellectual hardware to make the reader  feel that his/her time has been worth the effort. He can bring a scene to  life with a few fresh (never shopworn) details. He doesn't spend a great  deal of time elabortaing over these details, as James or Wolfe do, but he  makes the reader just as cognizant of them. A few brushstrokes and we are  there. His writing is cinematic, in that we can &quot;see&quot; the scene  he is depicting, without burdening us with excess verbiage. This is the  hallmark of a really good author. Ragtime is a primary example of this kind  of shorthand acumen. The novel flashes by as seen in a kinescope. I, for  one, was delighted I had inserted my nickle.	2000-05-16
US	50747141	R3RAD96L2O1JNR	0452262496	648256465	Lust for Life	Books	5	58	62	N	N	Bravo Stone!	Irving Stone is not a &quot;great&quot; biographer. He doesn't provide copious bibliographic details or even pretend particularly to serious scholarship. But he does do his research. What Stone is is a very good  storyteller. And the stories he tells, whether about Jack London, Heinrich  Schleimann, Michelangelo or Freud, have always entertained and (yes)  enriched me. Van Gogh's biography, and it's companion-piece, Dear Theo, are  particularly moving accounts of that great, tragic painter. I doubt if any  artist ever despaired as deeply or more profoundly than Vincent. Stone  captures the pathos of Van Gogh's few moments of exhiliration, followed  always by days of dissilusionment and depression. Van Gogh was the saint  and prototype of all struggling artists. The penury and neglect he suffered  through shouldn't have to be endured by the mangiest stray animal. It's one  of God's great ironies (Faulkner's cosmic jester?) that Van Gogh's works  are bought by Japanese investors and museum collections for umptold  millions, whereas their creator, having climbed down to the last rung of  despair, died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head. If you enjoy  this book as much as I did, read Dear Theo. It reveals the extraordinarly  tender love the two Van Gogh brothers had for each other. Theo was  basically Vincent's sole means of support during the artists's latter  years. Unfortunately, Theo was living in boderline poverty himself, had a  family, and thus couldn't give much to Vincent save for a little bit of  money and a great deal of moral encouragement. Both of these books are  infinitely sad, yet the redeeming aspect is that Vincent didn't live his  life in vain, as he thought, and that the body of work which has survived (  many paintings were painted over - canvas was a luxury) is a testament to  his genius.	2000-05-11
US	50747141	R3D0HCXR19E1V	0553210793	474714897	The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	The American &quot;Heart of Darkness&quot;	True, this novel is over the heads of many high school English students. This is the &quot;darkest&quot; American novel I know of, which is probably one of the reasons that induced Hemingway to say that American literature  begins and ends here. Like Conrad's Marlowe, Huck is journeying  &quot;upriver&quot; into a region of the human psyche best left unobserved  by any but the most stalwart of heart. His eyes are opened on the voyage.  His ultimate character is shaped by what he experiences. His is a passage  from naivete to wide-opened observer.What begins as an idyllic raft trip  turns more and more turbulent the closer to Illinois he gets. What begins  as a Tom Sawyer lark becomes more and more Faulknerian. Yes,it is a voyage  from inexperience to experience. Yes, it is a quest story. Yes, it is a  novel about man's inhumanity to man, etc. etc. But there is so much more at  work here..Twain shared much in common with Swift. We are looking primarily  at the underbelly of humanity here, not its bright spots.  The ending, as  pointed out by numerous critics,is problematical. Exactly what is Huck's  position vis-a-vis Jim? Has all that has occured previously been given up  in the moment he is counseled by Tom? Is Huck so ready to overthrow his  hard-fought allegiance in order to conform to society's dictums? Twain  offers no clear resolution, but this should not keep this novel from being  taught in high school or college classrooms, when students are given the  liberty to consrtuct their own conclusions.Personally, I believe what Twain  is telling us is that we can never exhibit our true natures in society  without risking being stoned to death. Conventional pressures have not  really changed that much from Twain's day to the present. Just by espousing  my support for this novel I am opening myself up to criticism aimed my way  from the righteously correct. American society hasn't changed all that  much. Religious piety and indignation has been supplanted by political  correctness. Harriet Beacher Stowe, bless her, is alive and well. There are  people out there convinced that Uncle Tom's Cabin is a more significant  work than Huck Finn. What would Vonnegut say here?al  correctness. Harriet Beacher Stowe, bless her, is alive and well. There are  people out there convinced that Uncle Tom's Cabin is a more significant  work than Huck Finn. What would Vonnegut say here?	2000-05-09
US	50747141	RS3X1JOKWGUIC	0802130798	707832281	The Bald Soprano and Other Plays: The Bald Soprano; The Lesson; Jack, or the Submission; The Chairs	Books	5	7	13	N	N	A note to high-school theatre directors	I had the good fortune/misfortune to be a high school theatre teacher in a small town in North Carolina for two years. The most rewarding experience I had was letting a junior/senior cast loose with a script of The Bald  Soprano. They had a ball and so did I. It was entirely liberating. They  took it where they wanted to, which is Ionesco's point I think. Ionesco  embodies this freedom. His scripts are not roadmaps, pointing to what an  actor should think or feel. It is not as if he is providing a &quot;fill in  the blanks&quot; master plan. The director and the actors are free to  provide their own interpretation. Freedom of expression is boundless. I was  really pleasantly surprised by the direction my students took on their own  accord. I essentially just sat back and watched the play unfold.	2000-05-09
US	50747141	R3VW9RY26572SS	0140440410	289712823	Anna Karenin	Books	5	24	25	N	N	One of the top ten of all time	Tolstoy was a &quot;giant, striding through the world with his eyes wide open and his nostrils flaring.&quot; He didn't miss much. After reading this and his other great work, War and Peace, I was pretty much dumbfounded  by his accomplishment.  To me, one halmark of true art, whether it be the  Sistine Chapel, Beethoven's ninth, King Lear, Paradise Lost, Faust, etc. is  how they are even conceived, much less carried off.  I am in awe of very  few authors, but Tolstoy has to rank as one of the true big leaguers, and  this novel captures him at the height of his powers, when he was throwing  about a hundred miles an hour, plus. No one could hit him, not even  Dostoevsky, and certainly not Turgenev.  I think he does an even better  job than Flaubert (another of my heroes) at portraying a woman as his  central character. I can't speak from experience, obviously, but both Emma  and Anna come across as realistically fleshed-out, multi-dimensional  figures.  I probably lean towards Anna because she is a much more  sympathetic character than Emma Bovary. She is an aristocrat in the true  sense of the word, not just born into a noble family, but possessing a  nobility of spirit as well. Unlike Emma, she loves her child. Her husband,  Karenin, is dry and humorlessly ascerbic, with the soul of a civil servant.  He uses the child as a pawn to get back at Anna. Vronsky, in contrast, is  dashing and clever and looks great in his uniform. In short,Anna is doomed  as soon as she meets him. Fate (of the ancient Greek variety) wends its way  through the novel, dragging her inexorably to her doom.  There are so  many vivid scenes throughout, but the most memorable to me is the scene in  which Vronsky's racehorse breaks down, foreshadowing the conclusion at the  train station.  The subplot involving Levin and Kitty does not detract  from the main plot, as it might in the hands of a lesser novelist. It is  undeniably less dramatic, but serves as a counterpoint precisely because it  is  more prosaic.  Levin is saved by love, Anna destroyed by it.  I  really don't believe in re-reading books. I'm usually disappointed when I  return to them after a prolonged interval. For instance, I just can't bring  myself to read War and Peace again. It would be like returning to an  earlier affair. I'd be afraid my response wouldn't be as rich as it was at  first encounter. But Anna is different. I've read it three times and  haven't tired of it in the least. I really couldn't praise a work of art  more highly.it  is  more prosaic.  Levin is saved by love, Anna destroyed by it.    I  really don't believe in re-reading books. I'm usually disappointed when I  return to them after a prolonged interval. For instance, I just can't bring  myself to read War and Peace again. It would be like returning to an  earlier affair. I'd be afraid my response wouldn't be as rich as it was at  first encounter. But Anna is different. I've read it three times and  haven't tired of it in the least. I really couldn't praise a work of art  more highly.	2000-05-08
US	50747141	R1XNJ400TLFBNK	0684809753	160386834	Great Books	Books	4	128	138	N	N	Not Merely a Shopping List	I have to admit I approached this book with some trepidation. I learned from the jacket liner that Denby was a film critic for New York Magazine (I vaguely remember reading some of his reviews) who had returned to the same  Lit classes at Columbia he had attended in the late sixties. What was a  film critic going to tell me about the classics that I didn't already know?  I've read every classic I could get my hands on since I was 13. I expected  something along the lines of Adler or Van Doren (brief accounts of the  hundred or so &quot;greatest books of all time&quot;).  I'm glad now that  I gave Denby the benefit of the doubt. Like Denby, I returned to college as  an older student and felt a blend of exhiliration and disorientation  similar to his. He's particularly adroit in conveying how politics have  changed the nature of classroom discourse. There's no need here to get into  a debate over the neo-relativist, agenda-driven camp on one side of  academia, vs. the liberal, canonical &quot;traditionalists,&quot; although  much of the book revolves around these arguements. What I'd like to comment  on primarily is Denby's authentic love of literature and the power that it  holds to shape lives. This is an old saw, but is still relevant and is  eloquently expressed and demonstrated by the author. He argues that  &quot;great&quot; literature is not primarily aimed at making us feel good  about ourselves. On the contrary, growth usually comes about only after a  period of some discomfort and anxiety. The message of great fiction is not  that we or our society or culture are  superior to other peoples or  societies or cultures. In fact, the message is usually the opposite.  I  have to admit that I found some of Denby's recounting of his private life  digressive and not especially engaging. His reading of King Lear,  juxtaposed with his memories of his mother's final years, was heartfelt,  but didn't quite come off in the final analysis. It seemed that the  parallels he drew (friction between generations, the weakening of the  intellect as one grows older, etc.) didn't seem particularly relevant or  insightful.  The chapter on Conrad was, for me, the crowning moment of the  book. Denby covers a lot of ground in this chapter, particularly in light  of what just proceeded in the chapter on deBeauvoir. He nails down the  essence of the scholarly debate, while at the same time giving us a vivid  picture of the response a highly-charged piece of fiction can provoke in  dispirate readers. As I lover of &quot;the classics&quot; myself, I might  be biased as to which side of the debate I stand on, but I would recommend  this book to anyone who likes to read and think at the same time.he drew (friction between generations, the weakening of the  intellect as one grows older, etc.) didn't seem particularly relevant or  insightful.   The chapter on Conrad was, for me, the crowning moment of the  book. Denby covers a lot of ground in this chapter, particularly in light  of what just proceeded in the chapter on deBeauvoir. He nails down the  essence of the scholarly debate, while at the same time giving us a vivid  picture of the response a highly-charged piece of fiction can provoke in  dispirate readers. As I lover of &quot;the classics&quot; myself, I might  be biased as to which side of the debate I stand on, but I would recommend  this book to anyone who likes to read and think at the same time.	2000-05-08
US	50747141	RA3X45U6V2T9T	0385264585	251864942	The Beginning and the End	Books	4	6	14	N	N	nobel?	I read this book and The Thief and the Dogs and was not exactly mezmerized by either. Mahfouz is an interesting, slice-of-life author and gives us a good sense of atmosphere and character. However, I don't think he delves  very deeply or offers any unique insights into the human character, which  one would hope for from a nobel prize winner. Then again, I often wonder  what translations the nobel committee have been reading for the last 90  years. Theirs must have been different from mine. These two books are,  however, rich in detail and one can believe that the author is writing  about what he knows intimately. He's adept at setting up scenes. There's  certainly nothing artificial about them. He is also great at conveying a  sense of menace and anxiety. There is a certain street-logic that guides  the narratives that could not have been gleaned from some ivory-tower  observatory. One gets the impression that the author has &quot;lived  it&quot; as well as reported it.	2000-05-08
US	50747141	R1HPP6ZF2RGN10	0140440577	392377088	The Travels of Marco Polo	Books	5	244	257	N	N	Go to the Source	This volume will enthrall anyone interested in true adventure. Marco Polo was the original Indiana Jones and then some. Please do not waste time on Gary Jennings' The Journeyer. This is the real deal and needs no dramatic  embellishments. The Travels takes you on a trip from 13th century Venice to  &quot;Cathay&quot; and back again. You will learn how Europeans found out  about fireworks, paper currency, printing and pasta. The harrowing journey  across the Gobi desert is particularly well reported. Marco Polo was more  than an explorer. He was one of the world's first anthropologists. This is  an exciting read, an account of how medieval Europe initially perceived  China and the far east, and of how the Mongol rulers and Chinese emperors  perceived them. Highly recommended.  As to the print quality of the Penguin  edition, I have had my copy since the early eighties and it has yellowed  only slightly. Viking is now printing on acid-free paper. One must remember  that these editions were printed primarily to reach the widest audience for  the least amount of expense at the time. For years, Penguins were  accessible to students and to the collector who couldn't afford an  elaborate, fully illustrated, fully mapped volume of a particular work. I  couldn't have read as many of them as I did in my late teens and early  twenties if that were not the case. I owe a lifelong debt to the editors  for their efforts. I've also never read a bad translation of any Penguin  Classic.	2000-05-08
US	50747141	R1TMHA2G57Z184	0140443649	619278596	Inferno / From an Occult Diary	Books	4	34	34	N	N	A Troubled Genius	Strindberg was one of the foremost playwrights of the 19th century, almost equal in stature to the other great Scandinavian, Ibsen.  This work is a departure in that the author takes as his subject his own psyche. The  schizophrenia and paranoia he suffers from comes at the reader in waves. We  are drawn into the vortex of his twisted reasoning, his fears, his  misanthropic vision.  About the nearest parallel I can think of is the  work of Antonin Artaud, who also is quite adept at describing his own  psychoses. What seperates them, in my opinion, is that Strindberg is a much  greater writer and can at times objectively look at his subject (himself),  whereas Arataud tends towards the monomaniacal.  I would recommend this  work for anyone interested in modern playwrights or in the psychological  underpinnings of the artistic temperament.	2000-05-08
US	50747141	R278YS9M9KKCZ1	0805420401	963630731	The Screwtape Letters: Also Includes "Screwtape Proposes a Toast	Books	4	154	163	N	N	a wise little book	This book was assigned reading when I was in 8th grade at a Catholic school. I remember I had no appreciation for it whatsoever at the time. I couldn't relate to the protagonist or his travails in wartime England.  Perhaps one needs a little time in this world to appreciate the delicious  simplicity of Lewis' allegory. Having read it recently I was struck by the  wisdom, strength and genuine spiritualism this book exudes.  One needn't,  as commented upon elsewhere, be a believer to appreciate this work. Lewis  never tries to foist any doctrinaire agenda upon the reader. Neither is he  didactic. All that comes across (to this reader, at least) is a sense of  hard-won wisdom. It offers some hints about how we might find a bit of  peace and happiness on this earth if we are willing to think a little less  selfishly and are able to set our powerful egos aside for awhile.  I wish  that those readers who wasted their money on The Celestine Prophecy and  thought it provided wonderful spiritual insight would turn their attention  Lewis' way. Here is the matter simply stated, without some wayward attempts  at new-age jingoism.	2000-05-07
US	50747141	R3DR7VC7HP4V8L	0684801221	737092002	The Old Man and The Sea	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Papa not at his height, but.....	This is a simple tale, but not one told by anidiot. I first read it when I was 12-years-old and can't say it is anovel I want to return to, just as I don't particularly want to return to Steinbeck's The Red Pony.  But I would maintain that it is a wonderful introduction to Hemingway for a young reader.  I believe that papa had his best period of production in the twenties and thirties, (Sun Also Rises, A Farewell to Arms). He also wrote his better short stories during that time (The Snows of Kilimanjaro, The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber [sic?]), but one can't dismiss this work entirely.  The Old Man and the Sea reminds me of a Neruda poem, simple on the surface, yet reflecting larger themes. I'm sure you were all taught about microcosm vs. macrocosm in high-school English class, right?  Well this is an example of the former, similar in some respects to Camus and Sartre and other existentialists. Santiago's struggle is similar to Camus' depiction in the Myth of Sysiphus. The old fisherman's struggle with his marlin is similar to Sysiphus' eternally rolling that stone uphill in Hades. It's something he is compelled to do by his very fibre and is thus comepletely resigned to. Yet choice is also involved, and thus we have an existentialist novel, produced from the simplest of stories. Ne-c'est-pas?  We tend to dismiss this tale as a simplistic allegory, but should remember that this came out at the time when Sartre and Camus were producing their most important work. I don't think Hemingway was out-of-touch with the French literary movement of which he had always tried to remain a part.	2000-05-07
US	50747141	RRZFBLBHI0FGF	0375708731	819615677	Burr: A Novel	Books	4	83	91	N	N	gore the great	I ignored Gore Vidal for most of my life. He was always way too media for my tastes. Especially after that encounter with Mailer on the Cavett show those many years ago. I had a friend who was in the movie version of Myra  Breckenridge, so I saw that film in a Manhatten cinema and wished I hadn't.  It just confirmed my prejudices towards Vidal.  What I discovered after  reading this book was that I'd been doing myself a disservice. Gore Vidal  is the wittiest, and thankfully not the most lugubriously erudite,  historian we have. Burr and Schuyler come across as three-dimensional  characters, much more so than Washington or Jefferson ever have.  Yes,  this is biased, not to mention jaundiced, history. We must remind ourselves  that it is an historical novel, not purporting to keep strictly to the  facts.  Washington comes across as a militarily incompetent, but  poticially shrewd egomaniac. Jefferson is not treated too reverentially  either. Burr, whom we know from American History classes only because he  killed Alexander Hamilton in a duel, comes across as a witty and urbane  statesman who perhaps didn't display the greatest amount of common sense in  that murky New Orleans business.  This novel opened my eyes about Vidal  and I promptly went on a Vidal tear, reading five of his other books. I'd  stick to the American History novels (particularly Lincoln), however. I  found Julian to be a lot more contrived than his other works (and I love  Byzantine/medieval history). If you want a good picture of Byzantium, stick  to Procopius.	2000-05-06
US	50747141	RIG5CN3JD4UNL	0679731377	62087535	A History of the World in 10 1/2 Chapters	Books	4	11	17	N	N	a mixed bag of mixed blessings	First off let me say that I've only read one other of Barnes' novels (Flaubert's Parrot, which I enjoyed) so I can't really say I'm in a position to really assess what it is Barnes is up to here. I agree with a  lot of what Jeffrey R and Michael Mishak had to say in their reviews. I  thought they were both extremely inciteful readings.  The thing that I  found most interesting about this work, I also found the most irritating.  This is what is referred to usually as the narrator's point-of-view, the  subjective voice. As mentioned in another review, the narration shifts  between first and third person primarily.  Many of the readers who wrote  Amazon articles expressed delight in the first two chapters, dealing with  Noah's Ark and the ship hijacking. I thought these were the weakest  chapters and almost quit reading the rest of the novel. The wormwood  narrator's sophomoric humor struck me as second-rate Thurber material. Only  in hindsight do I realize that this is probably about how Barnes probably  wanted the narrative to sound. After all, how far removed from a cartoon  figure is a talking woodworm? Are we supposed to buy into the concept that  woodworms are sentient beings, capable of delivering a revisionist account  of biblical history? Well, two chapters later, we read that they were put  on trial in late-Rennaissance France for crimes against the church. So  apparently some goofy provincial prosecutor had a pretty firm conviction  that woodworms are not only sentient, but diabolically cunning as well. So  if woodworms can be put on trial for their pernicious schemes, why not  narrate a chapter in a modern novel?  The second chapter chafed me as  well. It struck me initially as a weakly-written rehashing of the Achille  Lauro incident. But again, in retrospect I realize that Barnes is giving  each narrator a different degree of authorial skill. Each has a  distinctive, if sometimes annoying, voice. This chapter is told from the  point-of-view of a tv tour-guide. The transformation from pompous,  self-inflated wag to altruistic, self-effacing hero is thus subtly , but  skillfully presented.  As has also been pointed out in other reviews,  there is an ebb and flow to this novel, which reflects the ebb and flow of  history. History is not all about great events. This novel is not all about  great writing. Not all readers are going to take away the same things from  this book. Some, obviously, are dazzled by it, declaring Barnes a literary  genius. Others see it as an incoherent mish-mash of short stories  pretending to be a novel. But Barnes may be saying, isn't this how we view  history? Some want to focus on Columbus' marvellous courage in the face of  adversity, some want to dwell on his appalling treatment of native peoples.  I can't honestly say that I enjoyed every minute of this book. But I  don't think Barnes' aim was enjoyment on the part of the reader. Reading,  like love, should involve some degree of pain. It's not feeling good at any  cost that makes life worth living. Which is precisely the concept that the  narrator of the last chapter comes to understand. We don't really want  blessings. We want mixed blessings.our-guide. The transformation from pompous,  self-inflated wag to altruistic, self-effacing hero is thus subtly , but  skillfully presented.   As has also been pointed out in other reviews,  there is an ebb and flow to this novel, which reflects the ebb and flow of  history. History is not all about great events. This novel is not all about  great writing. Not all readers are going to take away the same things from  this book. Some, obviously, are dazzled by it, declaring Barnes a literary  genius. Others see it as an incoherent mish-mash of short stories  pretending to be a novel. But Barnes may be saying, isn't this how we view  history? Some want to focus on Columbus' marvellous courage in the face of  adversity, some want to dwell on his appalling treatment of native peoples.     I can't honestly say that I enjoyed every minute of this book. But I  don't think Barnes' aim was enjoyment on the part of the reader. Reading,  like love, should involve some degree of pain. It's not feeling good at any  cost that makes life worth living. Which is precisely the concept that the  narrator of the last chapter comes to understand. We don't really want  blessings. We want mixed blessings.	2000-05-06
US	50747141	RGGLF1MTF1LIA	0140442421	475141699	Elective Affinities (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	13	22	N	N	a gem from the &quot;big daddy&quot; of German Romanticism	If I were to teach a comparative literature class, this work would definitely be on the agenda. It is one of the true classics of Romantic art. We tend to forget that in his own era, Goethe was regarded as the  preeminent genius of European letters. There is ample reason for the  adulation. Whether writing a travelogue (The Italian Journey), a play  (Faust), or a novel (Wether, Elective Affinities, Wilhelm Meister's  Apprenticeship), Goethe is the consummate artist.  Personally, my only  complaint about Goethe was that he didn't think much of Beethoven's music.  Maybe we can attribute it to genius jealousy.  However you feel about  the man, you can not call yourself well-read if you haven't at least  exposed yourself to Goethe's writing. Give this one a chance and you'll  probably want to read more by this great (and I  don't use that term  loosely) writer.	2000-05-05
US	50747141	R2QOA1EOFJ2IYZ	014044503X	451333365	The Sorrows of Young Werther (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	74	85	N	N	self-pity lovingly described	We tend to think of our era as unique when we descry the impact that the media has on our young people's behavior. Well the same thing happened 200 years ago when this book was first published. Impressionable young readers  who identified so completely with Werther went out and committed suicide by  the droves.  Werther is the prototypical Romantic male, who  &quot;feels&quot; more deeply than the rest of humanity. Unlike  Heathcliffe, who settles on revenge as an answer to his thwarted designs,  Werther takes it out on himself. Of course, there's a great deal of  self-destruction at work in Heathcliffe's persona too.  I would recommend  this to a reader who is just getting to know Goethe. I read it when I was  about eighteen and it definitely struck a nerve with me at that time. It  made me want to read everything by Goethe I could find in translation. Read  it, and if you like it, as I am sure you will, go on to Goethe's two great  Romantic novels, Elective Affinities and Wilhelm Meister's Apprenticeship.  I found in my earlier readings that I never went wrong with what used to be  referred to as Penguin Classics (now Vintage) translations. They're  normally all top-notch, whether Greek, Latin, French, German, Russian, etc.  PS: If you're a young reader, please don't take Werther too much to  heart. It's only a novel, ok?	2000-05-05
US	50747141	R25UCCE1R0ZB0R	0061092002	645468601	Galilee	Books	1	12	20	N	N	a real dud	I've enjoyed several of Clive Barker's novels, including Weave Worldand Sacrament, so I had at least moderate expectations approachingthis book, particularly in light of the reviews (I should know better by now). The Kirkus reviewer likened this to an amalgam of John O'Hara, Faulkner and Cartland. I don't know about O'Hara, having never been interested in reading him, and the only thing I know about Barbara Cartland is what I gleaned from a 60 Minutes episode. But I have read everything I could ever find by Faulkner.... About the only thing remotely resembling that esteemed author is a southern setting. I have to admit I gave this novel a swift burial half way through the book. When hot-house Rachel discovers Galilee washed ashore at Maui or wherever it's supposed to be, I threw the book in the trash and said &quot;I can't take anymore of this!&quot; I don't care if it's passed off as tongue-in-cheek or not. It's still soap-opera dreck. It's worse than Harlequin romance because it's affected. At least Harlequin writers make no bones about their intentions.  This is just disingenuous drivel. And the guy wants to write a sequel?  Please, Mr. Barker, spare us. Find something worthy of your talents.	2000-05-04
US	50747141	R36EE1WL4TXAXV	055356174X	62391172	A Sorrow in Our Heart: The Life of Tecumseh	Books	2	26	45	N	N	not my idea of great history	Though I wanted very much to enjoy this book, I can't in good conscience recommend it. When  dealing with historical facts (the expansionist policy of the new government of the US vs. the interests of the larger tribes -  the battles in Canada, etc.), Eckert held my interest. When he intersperses  his own florid imagination in portraying Tecumseh's personal life he tends  towards purple, mythic prose that tends to make Tecumseh superhuman rather  real. Tecumseh emerges as a one-dimensional, single-minded hero who is the  main character in a Tragedy, rather than a flesh-and-bones human being who  happened to be a great leader of an ill-fated insurrection. For those  looking for a story with real pathos, told from a more controlled, but much  more powerful point-of-view, read Dee Brown's Bury My Heart at Wounded  Knee. Brown doesn't overdo it as Eckert does. He lets the story tell  itself. The result is much more affecting and agitating. Eckert's treatment  is exceedingly heavy-handed, Brown's more impartial, but ten times more  poignant. After reading Tecumseh, I asked myself, &quot;Why did I invest  time in this book?&quot; After reading Brown, I wanted to go find Custer's  grave and personally desecrate it.	2000-05-04
US	50747141	R1WT4A11287V6M	080213422X	640122618	The Painted Bird	Books	5	129	153	N	N	the HEART of darkness	My byline refers not only to the fact that both Conrad and Kosinski were Polish authors writing in English. There are also similarities in Marlowe's journey into the darkness of the Congo and Kosinski's young narrators' voyage through the surreal landscape of wartime Eastern Europe. Both  investigate the darker regions of the human psyche. Both are the antithesis  of a &quot;picaresque&quot; novel. Both are told from the point-of-view of  a relatively innocent narrator, whose original naivete is transformed by  the scenes he witnesses into an understanding of the &quot;horror&quot; and  a comprehension of man's capacity for evil.  I read The Painted Bird over  30 years ago and many of its images still remain vivid in my imagination. I  will never forget the couple caught copulating (you'll have to read  Kosinski's description yourself - I'm not going to go there) and the  boy-narrator's harrowing account of being thrown into a pit of excrement.  I'm a bit surprised, having taught high school English myself, that this  would be recommended to a young reader, even though I read it when I was  about sixteen. It definitely wasn't on my school's list of recommended  reading. I don't agree with some reviewers here that the book is  pornographic. Far from it. The sex depicted is hardly meant to arouse.  Kosinski's later work might have fallen into that category (he did a lot of  short-story writing for Playboy and Penthouse), but this is far too brutal  a work to be anywhere near titillating.  If you would like to take a  harrowing walk into the heart of darkness, and are equipped to handle  visions of one of the most depraved landscapes you are likely to encounter  in literature, then this book's for you.	2000-05-02
US	50747141	R1TE5EO9S50P07	0316769487	428562793	The Catcher in the Rye	Books	4	0	0	N	N	adolescent classic	I read this novel when I was slightly younger than Holden and found that I had a lot in common with the main character. We both lived in NYC, went to prep-school and had dysfunctional families.  It is because I identified so closely to the main character that I would not want to revisit this text  at my age. I know that I am far more cynical than Holden ever was, and  don't hold the author (Salinger) in the highest esteem.  I believe  Salinger has been afraid to come out of his self-imposed exile because he  knows he will never find another voice as authentic as Holden's.  I had  a friend in San Francisco who absolutely insisted that Salinger and Pynchon  were the same person. I guess it makes a certain amount of sense in an  Oliver Stone kind of way.  I would urge a young reader to read this book as  it truly is one of the best accounts of adolescent angst and mistrust of  the older generation that has been produced in literature. And if there  were such thing as a perrenial theme, wouldn't that be it?  If I were  still teaching English, however, I might get a bit fatigued in rehashing  this work; for in hindisght, I find Salinger's dystopian viewpoint and  Caulfield's negativity about as puerile as a latter day Ellis novel.	2000-04-28
US	50747141	R2FPGQE3L88P0R	0486221903	260001408	Against the Grain ( Rebours)	Books	5	39	50	N	Y	Absolute Classic	It really doesn't surprise me that this novel has been reviewed by only one person at this site. What a statement about the reading patterns of present-day culture!  From my teens through my twenties, I snatched up  every Penguin Classic I could find on the bookshelves in NYC and San  Francisco. I guess I just came up in a different literary milieu.  This  novel was one of the true gems that I encountered at that time.  This is  probably the seminal avante-garde novel. It's hero, Des Esseintes, is  basted on Absinthe (or hashish) half the time and his life is one  prolongued hallucination. The author takes the reader so intricately into  the main character's life, that we are living alongside him, absorbed in  his decadence. We are invited to his parties (which rival Trimalchio's),  are absorbed in his fantasies (which rival Fellini's)and basically are  tripping with him in his unique and solipsistic universe.  Oscar Wilde  described this as the strangest work of fiction he had ever come across.  Though not a great Wilde fan, I couldn't agree with him more on that point.	2000-04-28
US	50747141	R17Q40EAOJ02WO	081120197X	449332450	Arthur Rimbaud: A Biography	Books	5	14	16	N	N	one of the standards of literary biography	I am a literary bio junkie and this is one of the books that turned me into one. Rimbaud is an excellent subject because he led such a fascinating and contradictory life. He went from being the archetypal enfant terrible and prototypical bohemian poet to an engineer in Egypt without any interest in the Parisian literary &quot;scene&quot; whatsoever. Along the way was  his enigmatic relationship with Verlaine and Verlaine's wife.  Starkie  doesn't answer all the questions we are left with regarding this singular  artist. Nobody can. It's not even clear what caused his relatively early  death. What Starkie does provide is an intelligently illuminated portrait  of Rimbaud and provides us with the background for the well of angst into  which he dipped his vituperous pen.  I can't believe that Starkie's  equally compelling bio of Baudelaire is not listed ........ If this book  is out of print, it's criminal. It's almost a companion piece to her  Rimbaud. It should also be read by anyone interested in French poetry,  literary history, or great literary biography.	2000-04-27
US	50747141	R17G2ZMXE52TOY	0374506485	285051718	The Heights of Macchu Picchu: A Bilingual Edition	Books	5	23	26	N	N	whuzzup?	What is the deal here? One of the great works by one of the great poets of the modern era and there is one review here?  Neruda is to poetry what Marquez is to fiction. Superb insight, irony, metaphor, symbolism, etc. etc. combined with mastery of language (a universal language that does not  depend upon a translator's skill). By God, if anyone stumbles across this  title by mistake (as apparently that's the only way it's going to make  itself known) BUY THIS BOOK! It will change the way you read poetry. Is  Neruda out of fashion? That's like saying Voltaire or Dostoevsky are out of  fashion. If you love literature, shell out the money for this volume or go  to your local library and hope they have it. All you Bukowski lovers and  avante-garde wannabe's. This is the father of your sect. He had more  command of imagery in the tip of his finger than any beat poet or other  poseur that's come along in the past 50 years.	2000-04-27
US	50747141	R2W04RK6YWFGHD	0140244883	6028222	Restoration: A Novel of Seventeenth-Century England (Tie-In Edition)	Books	4	26	32	N	N	a good read	I would recommend this book to someone who wants an entertaining overview of Restoration England. But I would urge you, if you enjoy this novel, to go to the real source, Samuel Pepys diary. The audio version, narrated by  Kenneth Branaugh, is exceptional. Like R Tremain's main character, Pepys  was an intimate of CharlesII's court. He was also an exceptionally honest  and self-discerning diarist. The only real comparison in literature is  Rousseau's Confessions. Personally, I feel that Pepys' is the more genuine  self-examination.	2000-04-25
US	50747141	ROFBPXFP2PFCO	0394717813	421387754	Growth of the Soil	Books	5	100	113	N	N	a 20th-century masterpiece	This book is in my top-twenty list of 20th-century novels. I can't fathom how anyone with any literary sense could call the prose &quot;stilted.&quot; Simple, yes, prosaic, perhaps; but spare and lean does not mean devoid of grace. Hemingway strove all his life to write this way.  And let's not forget, Henry Miller held Hamsun and Celine (another  politically incorrect master-novelist) in the highest possible regard and  wrote that they both influenced him greatly. I cannot recommend this novel  highly enough to anyone who loves literature.  As far as the political  context is concerned, let's remember that Zubin Mehta performed Wagner in  Israel after a long ban and received an enthusiastic reception. I'm a  little weary of those politically sensitive souls that want to remove Twain  from school reading lists and find Shakespeare too chauvenistic, etc. etc.  I certainly can find no evidence of Hamsun's political views expressed in  any of his novels. Give this one a chance and decide for yourself. Don't be  put off by the thought-police.	2000-04-24
