US	50740272	R2YRG8PV1F2SGM	0684835061	668229414	The First Stone: Some Questions About Sex and Power	Books	4	11	12	N	N	The other side to modern feminism	As a university undergradute in the 1990s, i can identify with many of the issues that Garner writes about in this book. There was a culture in Australian universities that harrassment was a big issue, and it did occassionally go overboard (the veiwpoint 'that every man is a potential rapist'is one i heard myself more than once)though i think the pendulum is starting to swing the other way again. <br /> <br />Garner is a good writer, and manages to take what could have been a very dry subject and bring it to life without making it a rant. There is enough of the personal in this to make it interesting, and the author is quite open in relating her biases. I do feel that occassionally she is a little too histrionic in her retelling of conversations with others, and the story does jump about a bit; but overall the reporting is top class. <br /> <br />While things may have moved on in the gender wars in Australia to other battlefields, this book is still important, even if only as an exhibit in the history of Australian feminism. I know that there was a lot of debate generated when it was first published, and i know it made me think through many principles that i myself hold. I hope that other readers are also able to take away something from reading this well written book.	2005-09-23
US	50740272	R1GYIK7PYW3CW0	0679410325	207158162	The Secret History	Books	3	9	16	N	N	Don't believe the hype	A very short summary of the plot is that this is the story of two murders, the second of which we are told about in the first pages of the book. The drama and suspense is meant to be as we follow the lives of six college students through the eyes of one of them - Richard, the outsider of the group - as we find out why the murder was committed and what the ramifications are for those involved. <br /> <br />Highly lauded when first published, this book was a bit of a disappointment for me. I have three main criticisms: <br />- it is overwritten. There is tight little thriller in here, padded out to make it a more 'worthy' book. It seems to be that any book for the past decade that is aimed at a 'thinking audience' (whatever that is) has to be filled with a lot of extraneous information.  <br /> <br />- Dream sequences. Why oh why do writers feel the need to use dream sequences. They just DON'T WORK. A good writer can explain the psychological state of a character without resorting to relaying their dreams. <br /> <br />- For my complaint of overwriting, there are parts of this book that i find underwritten. The Svengali like teacher, Julian, who supposedly exerts such an influence over these students, is quite sketchily drawn and we are never really given any insight into why the six students are so enamoured of him. I also find that the description of the other students by Richard border on parody or stereotype. Perhaps the author meant it that way, as in awed out of towner looking up to the lofty 'rich kids' but i felt it wasn't really a good fleshing out of the main characters. <br /> <br />In short - there are plenty of better books out there. Save this one to a very rainy day. <br />	2005-09-23
US	50740272	R3GCQCNWKLBFU	0007163541	630763881	The Bride Stripped Bare	Books	4	7	8	N	N	More than just erotica	A fascinating, thought provoking and raw book that takes a look at one woman yet i think probably represents many women in the modern world.  <br />This is a quasi-diary of a woman who questions herself and her sexuality, wondering why it is that for her sex is more about pleasing her partner than gaining any physical pleasure herself, and if she can change this. She embarks on an affair that changes her life profoundly, not only in that it opens her up to thinking about sexual pleasure in a new way, but thinking about life and how she is living it. <br />This book reminded me a lot of Josephine Hart's 'Damage'. Like that book 'The Bride Stripped Bare' is an exercise in dry, stripped prose used to describe something full and sensual. Also like 'Damage' i found that this is one of the few pieces of erotica in the English language that actually works because it is well written and explores the motivations of the characters, rather than just getting into the physicality of the act. When the author finally comes to write about the central characters sex with her lover, it is all the more powerful and arousing for knowing how this fits into her life and mental landscape. <br />And like any great book, it leaves you asking questions of yourself after you have finished reading.	2005-08-16
US	50740272	RLU5JKOS733FV	0316011770	454028739	The Historian	Books	1	131	157	N	N	The dissapointment of the year	There has been a lot of reviews and commentary about for this book, much of it complimentary. So I looked forward to reading &#8216;The Historian&#8217; hoping it would be a well written, involving literary adventure. Considering the author was paid around US$2 million for it, you would hope so. <br /> <br />Well, what a disappointment! <br /> <br />I don&#8217;t know where to start with what is wrong with this book &#8211; do I mention that the writing is &#8216;clunky&#8217;? Do I go into how the book is based on letters supposedly written in a hurry that end up reading a melodramatic word-by-word recreations of events twenty years past? Do I mention how in the second half the book got so bogged down in boring extraneous information I ended up skipping and skimming through much of it like a pebble across a lake? <br /> <br />I think there are probably three main problems with this book. The first is the author has forgotten the main rule, equally applicable to films and books, when writing about &#8216;fantastic&#8217; subjects &#8211; if you expect the reader to believe the unbelievable (in this case that vampires do exist) everything else about your story should be believable. And here we come to &#8216;the letters&#8217; &#8211; most of this novel is presented as letters written by a father to his daughter. Nothing wrong with that. However, these letters are meant to be written in a hurry as the father is concerned he will not have the time to tell his daughter all he wants her to know. Yet, what is meant to be a letter is full of flourishes such as &#8220;She inhaled without flourish, smoking dexterously&#8230;The Friday plane to Budapest from Istanbul was far from full, and when we had settled in among the black-suited Turkish businessmen, the gray-jacketed Magyar bureaucrats talking in clumps, the old women in blue coats and head shawls &#8211; were they going to cleaning jobs in Budapest, or had their daughters married Hungarian diplomats? &#8211; I had only a short flight in which to regret the train tip we might have taken...&#8221; etc. etc. etc. After a few pages of this, the reader is left wondering why the author bothered with the letter conceit and just didn&#8217;t tell it as a narrative. There was no way I could believe these were letters rather than a novel.  <br /> <br />The second problem is the density of this book &#8211; while I can understand an author unwilling to leave out any of the information gathered over ten years of research, where is the editor in all this? By the last quarter of the book it gets so tied down in blather about details that are not all that interesting you wonder why you are bothering at all. <br /> <br />Lastly, there is the plain and simple fact this is not a well written book. As I stated above, much of the writing is clunky. Many of the descriptions of the locations are workman-like rather than evocative &#8211; I have been to places mentioned in this book, including Istanbul, and rather than recreate the city I loved I thought it was really boring. And the plot itself relies on too many clichs &#8211; unbelievable co-incidences, extraordinary good luck, even amnesia for one of the main characters for goodness sake. By the time you eventually get to the ending and the reason for the dastardly Dracula&#8217;s actions are revealed, you are too bored to even laugh at the ridiculous reason.  <br /> <br />After all this, a review in a nutshell &#8211; the writing is clunky; the plot is meandering and ridiculous. The book is too long, and could have been much better with half the words. In short, don&#8217;t bother &#8211; life is too short to slog through this book! Get your hands on some Anne Rice or even Bram Stoker if you want to read a good book involving vampires. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-07-19
US	50740272	R2ZVD7HH5WQWXY	0393010244	706332987	The Mission: Waging War and Keeping Peace With America's Military	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Great topic, not so sure about the writing style.	While the subject matter of this book is one of real interest to me, i almost gave up on this book a few times, purely on account of the writing style. Priest starts of with a dry academic introduction to the increasing role of the US military in International Relations, then soon into the book starts to write descriptions that are more like a fanzine, gabbling on about the individuals in the special forces. Every major character throughout the book is defined by physical characteristics (definately in no way adding to the narrative and which really has no relevance), and most non-Americans are described in stereotypical, depreciating terms. <br /> <br />That said, Priest does do a good job of critiquing how the US has come to use its military for operations that it really is not designed or suited for. She manages to cover both the macro and the micro, giving examples of both strategic and tactical failure. While i believe that in some places she went a little easy on individuals that should be held more accountable for their actions (and often failure to act), this is an engrossing account of the subject matter. And by the end, i had overcome the writing style and came to admire the book.	2005-06-16
US	50740272	R314QUOPU8989M	0375727124	19172034	It Must've Been Something I Ate	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Witty, humourous - delicious!	In an age where everyone who has ever had a meal anywhere seems to think they can write about food (just as anyone who travels to the south of Europe thinks that the public wants to read a book about it) Steingarten's writing stands out. He may be obsessive beyond what is considered normal - the measures he takes to fulfill notions about what he wants can take him to different continents or result in him cooking way too many batches of dog food - but you can't help but cheer him on as he writes about it in such a wry, acerbic style. His chapter on people who claim they have food allergies should be required reading for everyone for a start. Yes, he can be snobbish, demeaning, and plain rude, but the fact is he knows what he is writing about, and in the comfort of our own home, over a well prepared snack or a good drink, we can laugh along, partly due to the humour, and partly glad we are not the intended target.<br />In neat little self-contained chapters, each story in this book is witty and entertaining, and educational. This is a book that no food lover should deny themselves.	2004-06-28
US	50740272	R29ZXUXC27CLBI	0060541644	59964273	A Problem from Hell: America and the Age of Genocide	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Important point well put	In this exhaustively researched book, Power examines the United States of America's reaction to the notion of genocide in the twentieth century, examining some of the greatest tragedies of the era, and the individuals who tried, either positively or negatively, to shape the American reaction to them. This is not a one-sided, leftist rant against a great power - rather it is a considered look at the fact that the US uses the genocide convention to suit itself, both the feel-good-look-good factor of agreeing with its worth and the political expediency of denying its implementation. This is not to say that the US is always at fault when it comes to preventing or stopping genocidal actions - and Power notes this, especially in reaction to the obvious genocide in Africa - but as the largest power in the 20th century, the US was often the nation that was in a position to decide if action was to be carried out or not. This is not so much a study in human misery (though there is plenty in this book) or the brave individuals attempting to discourage it (though there are many of those in this book too- the most outstanding being Major General Romeo Dallaire, commander of UN peacekeeping troops in Rwanda when the great troubles broke out) but a study in the politics of genocide and intervention. Well written and well sourced, don't be put off by the page count - you can easily divide this book into manageable sections. But it should be read by all people who are interested in world affairs, even if only to compare America's previous inaction when it suited them to their ability to intervene in another country when they believe it is in their interest.	2004-06-28
US	50740272	R1TSIXXN0C2R0D	074325211X	918671473	A Bed for the Night: Humanitarianism in Crisis	Books	4	5	5	N	N	An important book about an important problem	Pulling no punches, Rieff has written a damning insight into the current humanitarian care industry (and it has become an industry) has lost its way in the modern day. While showing great admiration for people who believe they are doing the right thing, Rieff exposes the problems with the current methods and thinking behind humanitarian intervention and aid, especially the loss of neutrality and the growth of advocacy for military intervention.<br />This is a fascinating book, and one that should be read by those who hold beliefs on either side of the humanitarian intervention debate. While this reader came to this book in the context of studying International Security, including the issue of humanitarian intervention, it would be of interest to anyone who has thought about the continuing humanitarian crises throughout the world and what should be done about them. Occasionally Rieff comes across as hyperbolic, and he almost loses the reader's sympathies, but he has the facts and experiences to back up what he is saying. Covering a breadth of organizations, situations and viewpoints, this is a powerful book that at the very least will make you think next time you hear calls for peacekeepers to intervene or are asked to donate to one of the multitude of relief organizations at work today.	2004-06-18
US	50740272	RAOADHN3GYF5F	0312422172	700699244	20:21 Vision: Twentieth-Century Lessons for the Twenty-First Century	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Trying a bit hard to be all things to all people	A book this reader was looking forward to with anticipation, 20:21 vision turned out to be a bit of nothingness. The author doesn't really have much that is new to say rather it reads like a cobbling together of current economic and international relations points that you have probably contemplated yourself if you are at all interested in the field. For a complete layman, there are probably some interesting insights, and if you have been paying attention there are perhaps a few facts you haven't come across before. Yet ultimately, this book disappoints, especially considering that the author is also the editor of the excellent Economist.  If anything, it might lead you to search out some more focused or specialized reading in the topic areas.	2004-06-18
US	50740272	R2AXSEMON0S30Q	0099274167	252591636	Misconceptions	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Not the most positive spin...	I read this book when about five months pregnant. Admittedly, with Naomi Wolf you know that you are not going to get the most positive spin on the situation at hand, but I found this to be a really odd book. What I was looking forward to was a well written account of both the positives and negatives of the motherhood experience. What I got was a very negative take on a situation familiar to many women. It is almost that Wolf went looking for every negative aspect of pregnancy and found it. Admittedly, having nine months of morning sickness is not great. But I feel that she over exaggerates in so many areas. <br />For example, she goes on about how pregnancy and birth is always presented as a positive experience, with no warning of the not-so-great bits. I am not sure what she has been reading or who she has been speaking to - there is a lot of information out there about the not-so-great things that happen to your body, and your mental state. She acts as though she is a passive, put upon participant in her pregnancy, which just doesn't ring true - as a highly educated woman who has spent her professional life as an advocate, why can't she take control of her situation like so many other women seem to manage?<br />The final loss of credibility is the complaining about her impersonal obstetrics experiences, compared to the more `natural' way of doing things. Two points - she is wealthy enough to have made a choice here, why didn't she? And secondly, it is the modern, impersonal medical care which potentially saved her and her baby's life. <br />Being a mother can be hard. But we all have choices. Admittedly, I am not going through the American system, so perhaps things are a little different. But I did not find this book helpful at all - it seemed the author had already made her mind up what the results would be and skewed everything to fit a certain viewpoint that I could not relate to. Of interest to women's studies scholars perhaps, but for the expectant mother, this book doesn't really have much to add.	2004-06-18
US	50740272	R3639PLV5NCKQ0	1903809789	859274942	Baby Hunger: The New Battle for Motherhood	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Interesting viewpoint on an important issue	A contentious book that has provoked a lot of discussion, Hewlett has written about an issue that is affecting Western society today, and not just women. She lays on the table the important issue that for a variety of reasons women are leaving having a baby too late, often in the expectation that modern medical science means that conceiving a baby in later age is easy. Well, as Hewlett points out, it isn't, and there are going to be a lot of disappointed people out there.<br />This issue is important for many reasons. Not only does it concern women's lifestyle choices, but also issues such a pensions, taxation and future healthcare - if women are having less children, either through choice or circumstance, where are the future taxpayers going to come from? This reader got the feeling that the author was trying very hard to avoid writing a book that could be taken by the far-right as an excuse to push women back into the home, and I think she has succeeded in instead writing a well balanced book. The only problems I had is the fact that she kept repeating the same data throughout the book, but this is a minor point. I would recommend this book to any women between the ages of 18 and 40, and to any man that plans on marrying, working with or employing a woman as well. You may not agree with everything it has to say, but you will probably have a more rounded perspective on women's lives today.	2004-06-18
US	50740272	R5TIOP5DL112E	0452283701	885128653	Diamond: The History of a Cold-Blooded Love Affair	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Story of a cold blooded love affair	This is a good general account of the modern day diamond business, with the right mix of technical detail and story telling. The reader learns about how diamonds are formed, found and exploited, as well as the romance and large personalities behind the trade. As with most accounts of the gem-trade, the story inevitably revolves around the Goliath of the industry - the de Beers cartel, but Hart goes a long way to explaining how they rose to eminence and how they manage to exert so much control, even if this control is now waning. He also includes interesting details on the differing stages of diamond sales, from the selling of `rough' to the marketing of the finished article that most of us associate with diamonds.<br />Hart is to be commended for including a section on conflict diamonds, and how the trade in these is effecting the lives of thousands for the worse. He is cynical about how much the industry will do to stop the trade of these tainted gems, but the reader gets the feeling that his cynicism is not misplaced - much of his story is taken up with the greed and backstabbing involved in the search for and trading of this precious commodity. This definitely is a cold blooded love affair. But Hart manages to tell it as it is, leaving the reader to decide if diamonds really are worth the trouble and money that they currently command.<br />There are few complaints about this book, only minor quibbles. One is very partisan - I would have liked to have read more about the Argyle diamonds of Australia, and how they have been attempting to make brown diamonds (champagne and cognacs to be more romantic) fashionable. I also would have expected more on the trading houses of Antwerp and Tel Aviv, but Hart was obviously more concerned with the swashbuckling nature of exploration. But as stated, these are minor quibbles - this is still a fascinating read.	2004-06-07
US	50740272	R15NNE5IBC8PZZ	0312307993	750234823	Fences and Windows: Dispatches from the Front Lines of the Globalization Debate	Books	3	10	10	N	N	Involving if not surprising	The thing about a book by Klein is you are either a real fan or you aren't - there really isn't a middle point.  Most people who have encountered Klein before would have read `No Logo' and this book is very much in the same vein, with commentary on, or more specifically against, the perceived rise of a capitalist corporatist culture, driven by a consumerist West which is disadvantaging the rest of the world. This book is a collection of articles and speeches by Klein about issues regarding international regimes, the good and bad sides of globalisation, and the resistance movements that seem to now be a prerequisite for any meeting of economic importance. A good non-scholarly take on one facet of the many-sided debate on globalism and its effects.	2004-06-07
US	50740272	R3G88I6UHX29H4	3829029802	394757427	Fashion: The Century of the Designer, 1900-1999	Books	5	6	6	N	N	THE book of 20th Century fashion	This is the book on fashion - if you only want to buy one book about fashion in the twentieth century, this is the one to buy. Even if you have many books already, buy this anyway. The pictures are fantastic - a great mix of the classics (Dovima and the Elephants is of course included) and some you may not have seen before - and the prose is great, not too flowery but still capturing the art and drama that is fashion. Organised chronologically by decade, this book includes not just an overview of each era, but also informative sections on most of the major designers, including some of the oft-forgotten pioneers such as Lanvin, Fortuny, McCardell and Capucci. There are also articles on various aspects of the fashion industry, from how the clothes are made the idols of each era, costumes in the movies and many more. A beautiful book to look at as well as one of the most informative non-scholarly, this is a fantastic book for any fashionista, whether a total devotee or someone just new to the charms of fashion.he	2004-06-07
US	50740272	R23YJNZ1WGVU6D	0091889642	259560832	That's My Boy!	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good for anyone who deals with boys, not just mothers	I read this book while seven months pregnant, not knowing if I was having a boy or girl. This well written book will have appeal beyond the parents of boys. Murray writes with great wit and style (much like her show on the BBC) about the place of boys and more generally masculinity, in today's society. She makes interesting points about equality and difference, and weighs in intelligently on the nuture versus nature debate. While covering some weighty points, Murray's writing never results in lecturing or hectoring. You may not agree with every point that Murray makes, but this book is sure to make you think about how you interact with boys, and how the way we treat them effects their future. If there is one message in this book, it is that society needs to think about what they want from our future men, and that how we treat boys is what is going to bring the results.	2004-06-07
US	50740272	R1GPIE4PPHUBPG	0486414159	637593769	The Tale of Genji (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	29	31	N	N	A must for Japanophiles	This edition is actually the first volume of the series that makes up the complete Tale of Genji. After much anticipation, fuelled by books such as The Tale of Murasaki, I was ready to take on this giant of world literature. It was quite disappointing, but perhaps much of that was due to my strong personal dislike of the title character, Genji. Presented as a `shining prince', and the epitome of manhood, I found him to be a vain and childish character who was annoying in the extreme. So when the story is based on his adventures and accomplishments, it is bound to disappoint.<br />However, something strange happened with this book - by the end, I had decided to seek out the further volumes so as to complete the story. So Genji, annoying or otherwise, grows on the reader, and you feel compelled to find out what happened next. And this is the sign of a good book. And if you have any interest in Japanese literature, or Heian culture, this book is a must-read, as so much relates to it. <br />This is one of the `classic' translations, and is quite easy to understand. I would recommend having `A Reader's Guide to The Tale of Genji' by William Puette on hand while reading if you want to fully appreciate all that is going on.	2004-04-15
US	50740272	R3OECZV3IVJFST	0521643910	342594588	The State and International Relations (Themes in International Relations)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Better when explained by the author himself	I am in the process of studying for a Masters of International Studies at University of Sydney, and i have John Hobson as a lecturer. I am usually sceptical when a lecturer has their own book as a set text for a subject, but this book is not a bad guide for a subject i haven't had to tackle for a few years. As a textbook for something like Foundations of International Relations (a unit i am doing) i find that it includes a few too many terms and concepts that are the author's own (such as Domestic and International Power)but it does seem to fit well between the spectrum of something for total beginner and something only an academic in the field would understand	2004-04-07
US	50740272	R2CSWIP292CPWP	0060512806	555229230	Cryptonomicon	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A book to appeal to all tastes	This is a very hard book to describe - it is a bit Catch-22 meets Enigma meets the current raft of cyper-punk novels. But unlike so many books that try to be many things and fails, this book pulls it off, and superbly.<br />A multi-threaded book that travels easily through time, it covers WWII, the pacific, cryptography, and modern developments in computing,managing to include engaging characters and a great plot. The ending does sag a little, but this may be because after 915 pages you are so wrapped up in the book you don't want it to ever end!<br />While much has been made of the author's cyber-punk credentials and the book's appeal to geeks, don't let this put you off if this is not your usual kind of thing (it definately isn't mine). Away from these comments, this book stands alone as being well written, very humourous, engaging to the point of un-put-downability, and you will probably learn something you didn't know before. Highly, highly recommended!	2004-02-05
US	50740272	R1A3MGYIR9KPYE	051727115X	218513537	Primary Colors	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An outsider's view	I am not an American. I am not really into politics. And i first read this in 2003, in the era of Dubya rather than Bill. But i still found this to be an entertaining novel. The premise is a good one - the presidential candidate in question, Jack Stanton, is obviously meant to represent Bill Clinton - a southern governor commited to Kennedy style politics with a strong wife and many weaknesses, a major one being the inability to keep his hands off other women.<br />The narrator of this story is Henry, a political animal who is roped into Stanton's campaign, thriving on the politics, never quite sure if Stanton is sincere or a purely political animal. There are other interesting characters, from the mad 'dustbuster' Libby who has been with the Stantons from the start to Daisy who works in communications and becomes Henry's on-again off-again love interest. (A plot device that doesn't always work)<br />Henry is the grandson of one of the black leaders of the civil rights movement, yet this never seems to get a full outing in this book - it is one of the many complexities of Henry's character that needs further exploration. There are times when you wish the author would either stick purely to the campaign and politics or work more on Henry as a character, rather than trying to mix both.<br />Even for those who don't necessarily read 'Political fiction' (is there such a genre? There is now!) 'Primary Colors' is worth a look, even as an insight into a period of American politics where the gloves were off and people still voted for a candidate coated with slime. It will have you questioning the motives and appearances of your politicians, wherever you are voting.	2003-12-09
US	50740272	RFRW7DSYDU4CC	0767908171	997649583	A Short History of Nearly Everything	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Not perfect, but still entertaining	This is a good book. And coming from someone who is not a big Bryson fan (which puts me in a minority, i know) is a big thing to say. This is an enthusiastic book about science: easy to read, entertaining and informative. It is not meant as a reference book - you would not read it necessarily to learn about science, but rather read it as entertainment and perhaps learn something on the way.<br />But...it does have it's faults. About a third of the way through Bryson falls in to his usual trap of spending an inordinate amout of time on 'things that can kill us'. In previous books this has usually been in the form of animals (bears, crocodiles, jellyfish etc. etc.) but here he gets hung up first on asteriods that could crash into the earth at any time, then volcanos and earthquakes. Not that these are not interesting subjects, but he goes on and on. And he doesn't really stick to the history aspect, just about how scary it all is if you think about it. A big let down for this reader.<br />He does recover, however, and goes on to finish a good book. The first third or so is more a history of the discoverers/theorisers of early science, the second 2/3rds (minus the disaster theories) is more actual history of science. It is well written, goes at a good pace, and was entertaining. There have been some reviews who have pointed out factual inaccuracies which detract from the book, in that whenever you read something fascinating, a voice in the back of your head asks 'but is it actually true?' <br />Oeverall however, i would recommend this book if you are looking for something entertaining to read with a bit of depth to it. You don't have to be a science buff to truly enjoy it, just someone who likes to learn something new about the world around them. Who knows, this might actually explain something that previously didn't make much sense to you!	2003-12-09
US	50740272	R3TRPSLR6KRCFZ	0385039107	355318947	Elegance: A Complete Guide for Every Women Who Wants to Be Well and Properly Dressed on All Occasions.	Books	5	7	8	N	N	This review is for the reissued 2003 version	An updated version of the book that inspired Tessaro's novel `Elegance' this slim little volume packs a fair punch -there is nothing in here you probably couldn't figure out as common sense, but it is good to see it codified and written down in a straight forward manner (and if you don't agree with it, you can always ignore it!) It is even alphabetised for those who need to know something urgently without reading the whole book first!<br />Madame Dariaux, once Directrice at Nina Ricci, is from the French school of `less is more' - you are better off buying less, but buying quality. While some of her tips may seem a little prescriptive - what colours to wear with others, what shoes to wear with what outfits - she does it all with wry good humour that you just can't help but admire. She covers everything - from what men like, what to wear when you are expecting, how to dress little girls, posture and attitude to the basics such as dresses, shoes, accessories and such - and while some of it comes off as a little dated, it is a book that many women would probably benefit from reading. A little snobbish, very polished, this elegant tome will be welcome advice to some, welcome reassurance to others.	2003-11-24
US	50740272	R3QOSDOLTLD1JV	0786866756	399574634	A History of Britain: At the Edge of the World? 3500 B.C. - 1603 A.D.	Books	5	14	14	N	N	One of the better general British history books out there	The first in this three part series (and companion to the amazingly good BBC documentary series) this is a fact filled history book that is actually easy to get into - you can actually read it cover to cover rather than look up in the index what interests you. Much of this is down to Schama's engaging writing style - not quite casual, but definitely not dry and dusty. This book manages to steer an even keel, avoiding parochialism and Politically Correct revisionism. An entertaining read for those interested in British history - the title really says it all.	2003-11-24
US	50740272	R1GEPMOSI6RTDO	0141001526	618663546	The Penguin Classic Baby Name Book: 2,000 Names from the World's Great Literature	Books	3	9	9	N	N	More for literature buffs than parents to be	This book is not a conventional baby name book - it lists names that are included in the Penguin Classics series of books. It does not include 20th Century classics though, which is a big let down. It is not a book you would probably use solely if you were trying to find a name for your child-to-be - many, if not the majority, of names are not really those you would consider - Minnehaha perhaps? And certain books seem to be mentioned a little too much - `Orlando Furioso' must have a cast of thousands if the number of times it is mentioned in this book is anything to go by.<br />However, it is interesting, and it gives an insight into the importance of names as indicators in different periods of literature. It also refuses to concentrate on English language books - there are references to Ancient Greek, Scandinavian, Spanish, French, Russian and other non-English literature. If you are a scholar or fan of classic literature, you will probably find something of interest in this book. But if you are searching for an appropriate name for a baby, while it might throw up some you hadn't considered before, you should probably try somewhere else...	2003-11-19
US	50740272	R1B76THUPEPSOU	0762414472	809311334	How to Have a Baby and Still Live in the Real World: A Totally Candid Guide to the Whole Deal	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Definately not mumsy!	This is one of the growing new trend of pregnancy guides - it tries to be the antithesis of the 'What to expect when you are expecting' genre by being hip and sassy. A lot of this hip and sassiness seems to translate as cutting comments, but there is still a lot going for this book.<br />It does give you many of the answers you are sure to be looking for - such as those relating to the gross things that happen to your body and if you can ever have sex again (though this may seem self evident if you know anyone who has more than one child!) It also manages to avoid the preachy tone of many books that realising that yes, you may have the occassional drink or cigarette, and while it is not recommended, don't stress, you aren't the first.<br />It is easy to overdose on pregnancy books - each one might have a little something differnt, so perhaps you should just buy each one. Or maybe you should just get one, and use a bit of common sense. And why not this one? Truth be told, the best bits are the illustrations - from 1950s advertisements and magazines, recaptioned with an appropriate witty and biting style, they are sure to have you laughing	2003-11-18
US	50740272	R1JL5SUVBT7U3	0805073337	447498808	What Was She Thinking?: Notes on a Scandal: A Novel	Books	4	8	9	N	N	More than first appearances show	In Britain the publishers have stuck with the original, less sensational title of `Notes on a Scandal'. A story based on contemporary events, the bare outline of this story would be that it is about a female teacher who has a sexual relationship with an underage student, and on discovery is vilified by the press and society. However, this book is a lot more subtle and clever than that. The author has chosen to tell the story from the viewpoint of Barbara, a near-retirement aged spinster who teaches at the same school as Sheba, the teacher who has the affair. In unravelling Sheba's story, Barbara also reveals her own story, which has as many creepy undercurrents as Sheba's.<br />As the story goes along, we come to see how Barbara has turned her friendship with Sheba into an all-encompassing obsession, and we also discover that this is not the first time this has happened. While portraying herself as a benevolent helpmeet, Barbara lets slip occasionally, and we see that her friendship with Sheba is not quite as charitable as she makes out; rather, Barbara is using Sheba as much as Sheba is using Barbara. Not only that, Barbara obviously sees herself as superior to Sheba, and builds her own self confidence by denigrating those around her. While other author's may have taken the road of trying to make Barbara sympathetic, explaining away her less than pleasant traits, Heller manages to write a thoroughly nasty character for the reader to enjoy, and this is something that takes writerly skill. <br />This is a particularly British novel - the thinly veiled contempt Barbara shows for her `friend' is a particularly ironic, biting kind you find in various levels of British society. This book also portrays the British media's obsession with scandal and the tacky headline realistically. No one comes out of this book looking good - Sheba looks like a petulant, childish woman having an ill-conceived mid-life crisis; her husband comes across as a bore; her boy-lover as an uninteresting chancer; her daughter as a spoilt cow. And Barbara, though she tells the story, comes across as the worst of all - a human leech that seems at her happiest when those around her are at their lowest. <br />Note: look out for how Sheba's secret becomes public - even if it is not surprising, it will probably still come as a surprise!	2003-11-18
US	50740272	R3KTNHYNUYSGJF	0679748407	587113700	Maus : A Survivor's Tale. I.  My Father Bleeds History. II. And Here My Troubles Began	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Accessible, entertaining yet still has gravitas	This is a graphic novel based on the story of the author's father, and the story is a fascinating one - he survived Auschwitz, along with his wife (Spiegelman's mother). If this had been a `normal' novel, rather than a comic (or probably better termed a Bande Desinee as it would be called in France or Belgium) it could have descended into self-importance, but rather it is a story of one of the 20th Century's darkest moments told in an all too human tone (even if the characters are portrayed as mice, pigs and cats). Spiegelman resists making his father into a hero - he is an annoying old man, almost impossible to live with. And the author doesn't try to  write off  these faults as scars of his father's experience - he points out that perhaps his father is just naturally an annoying person.<br />Spiegelman does a brilliant job of fusing the individual and the broad historical canvas, creating a fascinating, absorbing, moving and entertaining work of art. More history should be made individual and accessible in this way.	2003-11-17
US	50740272	R27KZBK72SQDPV	0802117643	228454813	The Good Doctor	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Good Doctor, Fair Book	Set in post apartheid South Africa, this is the story of Frank, a doctor working in a hospital in a former Homeland. The hospital itself is a joke - a run-down institution that is barely functioning, it ships most of its patients to the modern hospital nearby. But this obviously suits Frank, as he has been there fore years, since his wife left him for his best friend. Into his monotone, bland existence comes Laurence. Fresh out of medical school, Laurence has chose to do his compulsory one year community service in the most deprived area he can, and is determined to make a difference. It is left to the reader to decide if this drive is purely altruistic or driven by some less benevolent instinct within Laurence. His deluded ambitions impact on Frank, both professionally and personally, coming to a climax that Frank is powerless to change, no matter what he tries to do.<br />This is a well written book yet it lacks tension and momentum. There are many situations that could have been powerful flashpoints, yet they all seem to sink in to the grey morass that Frank's life has become. The reader is introduced to characters from Frank's past, and he retells what was obviously a formative experience from his compulsory Army service; yet his motivation for staying in such a static situation for years never seems clear, nor do his motivations ring true. It is as though this story is still blurry around the edges, the author never quite able to pull it into focus.<br />Galgut is a talented writer - he avoids flourishes of prose lesser writers would have resorted to, and he often avoids the easy option, choosing to stay true to the tone of the book. But once I had finished this book, it was hard to decide how I made me feel, as though I had no reaction to it at all. And that, to this reader, is not the sign of a great book. It may be The Good Doctor, but it is only a Fair Book.	2003-11-11
US	50740272	R327D1NEL9OALP	0897330536	992597259	Diary of a Provincial Lady (Provincial Lady Series)	Books	5	27	28	N	N	Terribly, awfully, wonderful book of life between the wars	This charming book was written in the period between the wars, and tells of the daily trials and tribulations of the Provincial Lady - dealing with the servants, nosy neighbours, the horribly snobbish local 'upper class', the husband who hides behind the paper. Always told with style and wit, we observe life for the lady in question as she tries to balance the accounts (never a success - where does it all go?), help out at the local Women's Institute, keep her wardrobe up to date and deal with such important issues as modern parenting, keeping one's brain active when living outside of London, and the delicate balance of letting the husband know not too much or too little.<br />The stand-out thing about this book is the character descriptions and her take on everyday life. If anyone ever tells you people were much nicer/politer in the good old days, just refer them to this book, which shows that there was just as many selfish, impolite, venal, self-centred and downright rude people in the 'good old days' as there are today. We just need to hope that we can deal with them with as much style and aplomb as the Provincial Lady would.	2003-11-05
US	50740272	R1LTPQ2G8LKEGD	0897331109	730538686	The Provincial Lady In America (Provincial Lady Series)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Provincial Lady spreads her wings	Our lucky Provincial Lady has had a book published (when did she find the time to write it in between dealing with servants, bills and children?) so is off to America to do a book tour. This book contains many characters from the original Provincial Lady Diary, as well as some new ones, as the Provincial Lady shares her views of American hospitality (wonderful, if cocktail laden), travelling (not at night if possible), American food (under-rated and vastly superior to English food) and other important details.<br />Though now over 60 years old, this is still a fantastically good book, both funny and insightful. A word of warning - a lot of it may not make much sense if you have not read Diary of a Provincial Lady, as it refers to many characters that you are already assumed to know, but if you are up on the series, you are sure to find this one a delight!	2003-11-05
US	50740272	R3HVZ0KNET5FP6	0897332105	631690389	The Provincial Lady in Wartime (Provincial Lady Series)	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Provincial Lady shows her mettle	War has come to Britain, so the Provincial Lady decides to do her bit, and move to London to find a job to help with the war effort. Unfortunately, everyone else has the same idea, and rather than finding her offer eagerly embraced, she is reducing to trying every contact she has to try and get a position, only to end up volunteering at a canteen. Not to worry, for as usual her diary is written with the wit and verve we have come to expect from this series, and not only are we revisited by regular characters (the awful Lady B has not changed one bit) but also new ones.<br />It is interesting to read an observation of life in the early years of the war written by someone obviously there, and without her impressions softened by nostalgia. We learn that for every one that pulled together in the spirit of the war, there were just as many annoying and self-serving people as ever. We commiserate, laugh, and sigh with the Provincial lady as she attempts to hold her household, and own life, together in the most testing of times.	2003-11-05
US	50740272	R4DCL75EI2E5Z	031230286X	309220253	Last Days of Glory: The Death of Queen Victoria	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Interesting insight into Victorian society	A surprisingly entertaining book. Surprisingly because Rennell writes quite a dry book, not sensationalising the story of Victoria's death, or attempting to get too personal. Rather, he takes the reader through Victoria's last days, her death and the funeral, relating aspects from the point of view of those close to Victoria and the press. He never directly writes political analysis, but rather hints at it, only occasionally drawing parallels with the modern British monarchy. By taking one small episode - lasting only a year really - Rennell manages to explore various facets of Victorian life and it's legacy.<br />The most striking point in this book is the fact that no-one seemed prepared for Queen Victoria's death, which is amazing considering the woman was in her eighties! But it also entertainingly covers the small facts - the internal squabbles within the large and extended royal family; the fact the Queen was a bit of a glutton until her final illness; the boy who flicked a match and set fire to a man's hat while the public watched the funeral procession move through London.  Rennell manages to steer a course between the academic and the `dumbing down' sometimes prevalent in modern day `popular history'. Rather, he just sticks to the facts and supposes his readers are intelligent enough to understand and interpret them.	2003-10-31
US	50740272	R2L2021NBA2NWV	0684865726	768333352	True At First Light: A Fictional Memoir	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Not his best work	This blend of autobiography and fiction, written when Hemingway returned from Kenyan safari in 1953, was edited into shape by the author's son years later. It focuses on Hemingway living in Kenya spending most of his time hunting, when not developing his burgeoning self-developed religion and talking with 'the natives'. He balances his personal life between Mary his wife, a petulant woman who highlights her insecurities whenever she denies them; and Debba, his native girlfriend.<br />There is some glorious prose in this book, and some genuinely entertaining episodes, especially when Hemingway develops his own religion incorporating the Baby Jesus, animism and the Happy Hunting Grounds for a heavenly afterlife.<br />But it is hard to feel for any of the characters - the whites come across as arrogant and mocking, the black Africans as comical and childlike. Much is made of Mary's 'need' to shoot a lion before Christmas, but even when it happens, she still complains. It is hard to believe the supposed respect of animals with the amount of killing included in the story. <br />Isak Dinesen's published letters give a much more vivid and thought provoking portrait of Kenya, with a much less sentimental and condescending veneer. If it is vintage Hemingway you are after, try `The Sun Also Rises' (also known as `Fiesta') to read a great writer at his best.	2003-10-29
US	50740272	R1RS5CPJXQJHIU	0141182520	377046405	Modern Classics Metaporphosis And Other Stories (Penguin Modern Classics)	Books	2	5	16	N	N	Not for everyone	The other stories mentioned in the title are quite varied - some are self contained short stories, others are no more than a few paragraphs, and these it is difficult to understand their inclusion: perhaps in their original German they were fantastic examples of prose, but in  their English translation the reaction is more `So?'<br />The main story in the book is of course Metamorphosis. Along with `The Trial', this is probably the work Kafka is best known for. The basic premise is simple, if a little weird - George Samsa wakes one morning to find he has become a giant insect. The remainder of the story is about George coming to terms with his new existence, and the reactions of the rest of the household. What is interesting in this story is how Kafka reveals so much of the family dynamic obliquely - by describing the actions that the family must now take since their chief breadwinner - George- is incapacitated (to say the least) and the changes in their lives, we see that a family George once regarded as loving and needing care were actually leading an easy life at his expense, and once he is out of the equation are quite able to cope on their own, coming to loath what George has become once they realise that they no longer need him. The straight-forward style when writing about such a bizarre subject is a bit odd at first, but the reader becomes `acclimatised' as the story develops.<br />There seems to be three reasons people read Kafka - some genuinely enjoy his writing; some come across it accidentally and give it a go; and some feel the need to read his works since they are referred to in one way or another in so many works written since his death. Kafka is not a writer that will probably be on most people's favourite authors lists, but it is worth trying some of his work to at least know what all the fuss is about and decide for yourself. And if it is not for you, at least you're making an informed choice.	2003-10-21
US	50740272	R1T81IVOT4YSFF	0375719180	211821642	The Miracle Life of Edgar Mint: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	An oddball gem of a book	Edgar Mint is one of these people that seem to have a purpose for being - otherwise, why would he have survived so many traumas that would have killed someone else long ago? This book starts with Edgar having his head run over by a mail van, and continues in a similar surreal vein for the remainder of the book. While at first this traumatic event may seem to be the defining force in Edgar's life, as the book unravels we come to realise that it is only a link in a chain that started before Edgar was born. His mother is an alcoholic Indian woman, the father he never met but seems to know a lot about was a white wannabe cowboy who deserted Edgar before he was ever born.<br />Surviving the head-squashing incident, young Edgar spends a long time in hospital, meeting influential characters, both good and bad, while there, before he is sent to live with his great-Uncle Julius. Julius is the caretaker at a boarding school for Indian children, and Edgar begins on the next stage of his life, undergoing traumas both physical and mental that seem unable to crush him, no matter how dire.<br />Without giving too much away, Edgar survives the all the world assails him with, and eventually moves on, driven by needs that to others seem strange, but to Edgar are important, the main one being the need to find the mailman who ran over him, and let him know Edgar survived. This driving force leads the story to its conclusion, which in itself is as strange a surprise as any so far in Edgar's life - it is not the twist even the most canny of readers is probably going to spot.<br />This book is wonderful to read - it is obviously heavily influenced by John Irving (especially `Prayer for Owen Meany') but is better, rather than worse, for it. Edgar is an amazing character - at first you feel for him because of what he has gone through, but you come to feel for him because of what a fascinating and truly heart warming character he is.  This is not a conventional story, but an off-beat one, yet it does read like the author is trying to be `kooky' - despite it's bizarre aspects, it reads as though it could have really happened. Well worth picking up if you have the chance	2003-10-20
US	50740272	R3HZCGHIBUCEIC	000713472X	216816216	The Last Party: Britpop, Blair and the Demise of English Rock	Books	2	4	7	N	N	What a disappointment	This is a book that attempts to cover the music scene in Britain in the 1990s, contrasting the rise and fall of an indigenous rock music movement with the rise of Tony Blair. The author chooses to focus on a group of bands - Oasis, Blur, Suede, Elastica and Menswear - that were all part of the same incestuous group (The lead singer of Elastica went out with both the lead singer of Suede then Blur for instance). The book is full of minute detail - he said, she said about each other, dates and locations for early gigs, chart positions and such like. I can only say that I think only a real fan would be interested in most of this detail - and if you were a dedicated fan you would probably know most of this anyway.<br />The author's attempt to make links between the rise of Blair and the development (and fall) of Britpop is tenuous. It is true that there was interaction between the Blair camp and bands like Oasis and Blur, but they feel like adjuncts to the story. Yes, Blair and his people co-opted the rise of `Cool Britannia' to their cause, and Britpop was a part of Cool Britannia idea, but the author doesn't make a very strong cause for the association with Blair being a major part for the sell-out, and therefore end, of Britpop. It is as though the author wanted his book to be taken seriously, and thought a book 'just about pop music' wasn't enough, so he threw some politics in.<br />It has been said that `writing about music is like dancing about architecture' and this book is a good example of that. It didn't make me feel like getting out the Britpop CDs in my collection and giving them a new hearing. Rather, it left me feeling that the people covered were selfish, drugged up self-centred musos that lost all perspective and refused to grow up. I didn't learn much that I didn't already know, and I am not convinced that Britpop was anything special. Rather, I just feel that someone needs to shout `It's only Pop music!'<br />I actually discussed this book with Britpopfans who lived in England during the 1990s, and had also read the book. They were disappointed too. So i am not sure who this is meant to appeal to - nothing new for the fans, nothing too interesting for those who aren't fans. And the demise of English Rock? Suede, Blur and Oasis still sell out concerts. Doesn't seem like much of a demise	2003-10-15
US	50740272	R8EC3AA92E9SB	1841156574	688293958	The Chap Manifesto: Revolutionary Etiquette for the Modern Gentleman	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Long live the Revolution!	As the AnarchoDandyism followers attempt to spread their brand of urbane, civilised living throughout the world, they strive to enlighten those who are yet to appreciate absinthe, moustaches, houseboys and all manner of good manners. With sections on what being a chap is, how to spread civilised living throughout the world, and how to live as a chap, this is a handbook for all those who aspire to more than label-wearing, lager swilling and boorishness.<br />This is a clever, witty, acerbic little book. The humour is *very* English, which may leave some readers behind. However, this is an asset in my view, and they keep it consistent from start to finish. You may not actually learn much from this book, but that is not the point - it is a satirical look at the world, so just go along for the ride, and if you decide that moustache wearing and absinthe drinking is for you, go for it. <br />Following the `Manifesto' idea of the title, the layout is in circa 1950s Soviet style red and black with socialist style typeface for the chapter front pieces, which is a little incongruous compared with the suave, slightly bohemian style of Chappism. Some sections of the book are a little too dense with blocks of text, but in most places there are appropriately hilarious illustrations.	2003-10-15
US	50740272	R20XBQYK0QWT3N	1862075808	785343650	Stasiland: True Stories from Behind the Berlin Wall	Books	5	7	8	N	N	An engaging read about a little known evil	This is a hard book to categorise (one bookshop I know of has this on the shelves in Travel, History and Biography!). Anna Funder has written a book about the Stasi, the pervasive secret service of the old East Germany. Rather than do historical research, Funder chooses to interview people from both sides of the story - the victims of the Stasi and the former perpetrators, some repentant, some not.<br />As the story unfolds the reader follows Funder as she discovers more and more about life before the Wall fell, included that many of the people she deals with in everyday life have extraordinary tales to tell. Without directly explaining, Funder helps the reader see, through the stories she shares, what motivated people to take a stand, either on the side of control or freedom, and she also helps the reader, again through the stories of others, to see how such a regime of control can exist.<br />This is a great book - Funder allows the stories of others to do their thing, only commenting on her own life to underline feelings or points made. It is a personal tale, and all the better for it, as it makes the book more alive and accessible than the academic tome it could have been. This is the type of book you could recommend to anyone looking for something interesting to read - even if they don't usually read travel, history or biography.	2003-10-15
US	50740272	R8JJAEXWO8WKZ	0330392611	476194163	Idea of Perfection	Books	4	16	16	N	N	A realistic portrayal of small town life	This is ostensibly a love story, with two professionals from the city forming an unlikely bond when they are thrown together in a small country town. However, the relationship between the two is only one of many in this well written book. The chapters alternate between the viewpoints of the main characters to develop a well-rounded portrait of all concerned.<br />Karakarook, like many small Australian country towns, has been left behind - they highway doesn't run through town anymore, the bank will soon close its branch, and any industries that supported the town have long gone. Many in the town are pinning their hopes on 'Heritage', which gives a reason for one half of the city partnership, Harley, to be there. She has come from Sydney to organise a museum. She also becomes involved in the fight over another heritage flash point - the old Bent Bridge.<br />Bent Bridge is the reason for the other city person to be in town. Douglas is the engineer tasked with organising the replacement of the bridge. Harley and Douglas have their stories told alternately with that of a third - Felicity, the flighty wife of the bank manager. All three are outsiders - not just in the sense that they have arrived in Karakarook from elsewhere, but they also don't quite belong in the society in which they live. Also, all three have been deeply marked by their backgrounds - Harley forever trying to live up to the expectations of her famous creative family; Douglas living in the shadow of a war hero father he never met; and Felicity trying to forget her humble background while clinging to youthful beauty. Grenville is a skilful enough writer to allude to the importance of these details, while not overburdening the reader with too much character history. Like the other aspects of the book, the author credits the reader with enough intelligence to see the points she is making with being too strident. This is a delight. <br />The fourth main character in the story is the town itself - its history, the lives lived there day-by-day, its physical characteristics. Having lived in more than one small Australian country town, this really rang true for me, and Grenville manages to reign in the 'big town' superiority in her depiction. I was also happily surprised to see the inclusion of a lot of Australian words that the author didn't bother to explain - this is interesting to see in a book that was probably written with an international audience in mind.	2003-10-09
US	50740272	R12MAY3JCDYDQ8	0743243307	864788878	Brick Lane: A Novel	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Fascination in the mundane and everyday	Nanzeen is a Bangladeshi woman who marries young, sent to Britain to a husband chosen by her father. This book follows her journey, from naive village girl to mother of two living in modern London.<br />This book has been highly feted since before its publication (the author made it onto the Granta authors under 40 list based on an unpublished manuscript). As usually happens, this book doesn't quite live up to expectations. It has its faults - Ali uses the device of letters written by Nanzeen's sister to forward the plot, and while in short doses it is interesting, she over-uses it and a whole chapter of these letters is too much, especially as they are written in childish, broken English. And the pivotal affair between Nanzeen and a young Islamic activist is not very credible.<br />But there is more good about this book than bad - every character feels well rounded, and their motivations seem plausible without being overly obvious. This is a book that touches on a lot of political points (Islam, women's rights, culture clash etc) but avoids the soapbox and none feels shoehorned in. Most importantly, this is an interesting story well written that carries you along to the very end. While the setting and plot on first inspection could be considered mundane - a woman living in a council flat who does little else but cook, clean and care for her husband &amp; children - is developed into an interesting story by great characterisation and a vibrant spin on universal themes. This is a longish book - over 400 pages - but it doesn't read as such. Taken on its own merits, rather than as the great 'Bangla' hope, this is a worthwhile book.	2003-10-09
US	50740272	R20DNZKXI4G5G0	8439705301	787263273	Q (Spanish language edition)	Books	4	13	16	N	N	Not an easy book, but worth the effort	This is not the type of book you attempt half-heartedly -at over 630 pages of story, you need to be committed if you are going to finish. But if you do see it through to the end, you will be well rewarded with an interesting, informative and involving tale.<br />Through the book we follow a man of many names, one of them being Gert of the Well, as he follows his radical Anabaptist beliefs into a struggle that leads to anarchy and defeat. After two failed uprisings, he comes to question his convictions, and drifts from the cold of Northern Europe to Switzerland and then Venice, along the way falling in with fellow revolutionaries and reactionaries, continually putting himself in the face of danger, not always sure why. His densely packed story is continually juxtaposed with the writings of his nemisis Q, a spy inthe pay of the manevolent Catholic Carafa, a man who is to ultimately become Pope. Gert and Q are two sides of the same coin - men fighting for strongly felt principles, yet not always sure that they believe in those principles anymore.<br />This book is very involved and dense with information. Based on true events and characters, it can occassionally drift into textbook-like recreations. But it saves itself with some vivid storytelling - sieges, madness, the richness that was Venice in the 16th century. And there is a gripping story throughout - never knowing if and when Gert and Q will come face to face.<br />Stick with this book - it improves as it goes along, and the section in the last quarter or so, set in Venice, is the best. When you have finished you will feel rewarded not only for having finished such a huge book, but for having been privy to such an interesting story	2003-10-07
US	50740272	R1YVWZQEDWPJ0H	0871139014	458016722	Into the Silent Land: Travels in Neuropsychology	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Questioning what we are	In the first half of this book, Broks says of the philosopher Wittgenstein that for him 'philosophy was not so much about finding solutions to puzzles as about correcting fundamental misunderstandings.' This book could be described as following the same premise, in that it doesn't set out to give definitive answers. With its individual take on neuropsychology and what defines `the self', this a book was by turns both fascinating and frustrating. <br />Broks has, inevitably, been compared to Oliver Sacks, and in many regards this book is in parts similar to books written by Sacks, in that it explores interesting cases of neurological diseases or injury. Broks has taken a more idiosyncratic path, choosing to intersperse his recalling of such cases with discourses on his own opinions on neuropsychology, anecdotes from his personal life, and some fictional episodes. Sometimes these work, sometimes they don't. My favourite part of the whole book is the futuristic story about teleportation - the book is worth the price for this section alone, as it is sure to have you thinking for long after you have finished. Yet other sections - including the parts where he takes part in a conversation with a disembodied brain - don't work for me. I think that the enjoyment of this book will be down to personal taste - some people will love some sections, which will be loathed by others, and vice versa. <br />This book is written in a very British style, both the type of humour (of which there is much) and its 'quirky' view on life. It is much less clinical in style than you would expect from a neuropsychologist writing about his own area of expertise. Broks' honest, admitting that sometimes he despairs, often he doesn't know, and that even as a professional there are times I hope that this book is bought and read by many, as it is the type of reading that is both entertaining and very thought provoking - it will have you questioning such fundamental issues as what am i? what is the basis of existence? While not as scientifically rigorous as some of the Oliver Sacks books, it is still an important contribution to the genre of 'popular neurology writing' if there is such a thing, and would be of appeal to anyone interested in how the brain works and/or the nature of being.	2003-10-06
US	50740272	R1NRPLKWCDVABU	0767911660	408479518	Duende: A Journey Into the Heart of Flamenco	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Not 'the' book on flamenco, but a good read nevertheless	After finishing the introduction to this book I was despairing. The narrator/author came across as a real prat, and combined with the fact I am quite sick of the `I took an extended holiday and justified it by writing a book' genre, I thought I was almost guaranteed not to like this book. Luckily, I was wrong.<br />That is not to say Duende is a great book. There are faults - the conclusion is a mess, and occasionally the author makes trivial facts out to be momentous ones. There is also the problem that some of the characters feel  as though they have not been properly thought out - the prime example for me is Grace, who appears in the Granada section of the book.  However, this is a very good book. It is the story of an Englishman who decides to move to Spain and pursue his love of flamenco. This is quite amazing when you consider that he has never learned guitar before and has now decided to take on a rather complex and complicated form of playing. You have to admire his pluck.<br />Through his searches for `authentic' flamenco, the author falls in with a bunch of gypsies, never sure whether he is truly accepted or just there for novelty value. After a shocking incident, he moves on, and leaves Madrid for Granada, reassessing his life as he goes.<br />This book is an interesting narrative - it has love, passion, interesting characters and well described, evocative settings. But it is more than that - using flamenco as the medium, Webster explores what happens when we use an outside `thing' (in this case flamenco) to try and run away from internal forces (feelings of inadequacy, searching for meaning). We follow Webster down the false leads he chases to find this `thing', the true spirit of flamenco that he feels will answer his quest, all the time questioning his reasoning and motivations.<br />There have been some criticisms that this is not a very good book about flamenco. I don't think that it was intended to `write the book' about flamenco; rather, it is using flamenco as a medium to explore various themes. I can count on one hand the number of times I have been fortunate enough to see a live flamenco performance, but this book has made me interested enough to want to seek out more. And I would say that means it has done its job.ng flamenco as a medium to explore various themes. I can count on one hand the number of times I have been fortunate enough to see a live flamenco performance, but this book has made me interested enough to want to seek out more. And I would say that means it has done its job.	2003-09-26
US	50740272	R2FLC7VE7BTXDI	0375421807	781886267	Mountains of the Mind: How Desolate and Forbidding Heights Were Transformed into Experiences of Indomitable Spirit	Books	3	6	12	N	N	Preaching to the converted	Fortunately, this is not yet another egotistical man-against-the-mountain book in the style of Joe Simpson et.al. Rather, this book purports to be an exploration of the fascination with mountains that came to grip the Western mind-set.  Therefore it is more of a cultural history of climbing than a pure 'tale of adventure'.<br />Macfarlane has obviously researched his subject thoroughly. Unfortuately, this shows due to the fact that there is so much in here that is not really required - more than once an addition read as though the author had come across yet another quote he found interesting and just `had to' shoe-horn it into the book. Therefore we have endless references to people like Keats, who himself was never really into climbing mountains, but happened to say something about them. ... There is a lot of interest in this book, but you have to read through repetitive sections to get to them. There is also a lot of reliance on quotes - again and again we get someone saying 'Itis impossible to describe....' then attempting to describe it. It gets a bit boring after awhile, leaving this reader champing at the bit to get to the next chapter.<br />The inclusion of personal anecdotes is also a bit dry. I don't have anything against books where a historical/scientific and/or cultural exploration is interspersed with personal narrative or anecdotes. But these anecdotes seem to jump all over the place: perhaps they would have been much more useful if the author had referred to one climbing trip throughout, using examples from this to underline the points he is making. And the section on Mallory doesn't fit: I realise that the author is using him as an example of the ideas he has been exploring throughout the book, but really it is just a potted history. He continues to comment on the fact that Mallory was drawn to Everest, even though he knew there was a good chance that he wouldn't come back, and despite the fact he had a wife he loved very much and wanted to spend time with. Yet we never quite get an explanation of why, which was ultimately meant to be the point, I thought. <br />Not sure what market this book is trying to reach - if someone picks it up to read about climbing adventures, I think they will be bored quite quickly. If they are looking for an in-depth cultural history of climbing, they might find this book a bit `bitty'. Which is a shame, as this is a book that obviously has had a lot of work put into it, and there are some very interesting ideas contained in it. If only you didn't have to wade through so much extraneous material to get there.	2003-09-25
US	50740272	R1TSFF0SXTV9IS	0140176845	231849716	The Best of Rumpole: Chosen By the Author	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Good introduction to Rumpole	This is a selection of stories chosen by the author himself, showcasing the talents and idiosyncrasies of Horace Rumpole, described by his own wife (known as 'She Who Must be Obeyed') as a character. We follow Rumpole through various cases, which give us an insight into Rumpole's views of life and the law (he is quite scathing of both). We meet various regular inhabitants of the Rumpole stories - the Timosn family, who with their many and varied exploits provide Rumpole with much work; 'Miz Liz' Probert, Rumpole's feminist protg; uncle Tom, who hasn't seen a brief for many a year and spends his days in chambers practicing his putting; and many others. While very humourous, some of the humour is a bit dated, though this may be part of its appeal for some. <br />The book is a collection of short stories, originally published elsewhere, and each stands alone. so you are able to dip in and out of this book. I am not really a fan of legal stories, humourous or otherwise, but in short dose these make a light break. It is also a good introduction to the Rumpole stories for those who haven't encountered Rumpole before, or have only met his television incarnation. And the individual stories are short, so it's not like you have wasted much of your time if they are not for you	2003-09-22
US	50740272	R2I6FMV2KT4SF4	0553125710	388019925	The dam busters	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Not just for World War II flying buffs.	This story is a writer's godsend - a fantastic story that has historical implications, interesting characters that are also heroes, very important situations and settings, tension and high drama. Brickhill does a great job telling the story of the squadron that became known as the Dambusters. This book gives us the story behind the raid - he science and hard work developing the technology behind the success. It also follows the further raids of the men of 617, and the development of the bombing technology as the war continues.<br />Brickhill balances the story between the technology and the human. All of 617 come across as sterling chaps, which is to be expected. I was surprised that the writing in this book did not seem dated, considering when it was written.<br />While not really `faults' there are some `less than perfections': while Cochrane, Wallis, Gibson and Chester all are clear and memorable characters (these are major players in the book), many other characters get the occasional mention here and there that leaves you wondering `And which one was he?' This is also a book aimed a people with military knowledge. Therefore if a reader is not completely au fait with military terms (or fortunate enough to have someone nearby who is, like I was) you may occasionally feel a bit clueless. And after the last major action of the book - the sinking of the Tirpitz - the book seems to lose its edge (though the epilogue is a very good roundup of what happened to whom). But overall  this is an entertaining read by a great writer about an exciting story. Not just for World War II flying buffs.	2003-09-17
US	50740272	R32XBBYNAHMA9H	0571215157	701095379	Vernon God Little	Books	1	17	29	N	N	What a disappointment!	What a disappointment. I had heard and read reviews, and now I had a copy to read. Really, it should be called Vernon God Awful. I will conceded it has a few good descriptions, but it is bad for many reasons:<BR> It is so obviously trying to be ironic. And because it is so obvious, it feels contrived<BR> The ending is obvious from the first few chapters<BR> The gonzo style reads contrived rather than fresh<BR> I accept the characters are meant to be caricatures, but some 3-dimensional characters would have been a nice addition<BR> The mispronunciation of some words was funny (e.g. Power dime for paradigm) but `Adult Hitler'? Please, who in the western world wouldn't know that one?<BR> A ridiculous ending<BR>The fact a book like this can be so heavily feted annoys me (it is now on the short list for the Booker) When interviewed by the BBC for his reaction to making it onto the Booker Shortlist, Pierre said `How ironic. I don't know whether to s**t or go bowling'. Quite.	2003-09-17
US	50740272	R11KXVMFEVK502	0618304002	492045478	The Book of Salt: A Novel	Books	4	13	15	N	N	An evocative tale of a different time and place	The salt in this book is many and varied - salt of the sea, salt of taste, salt of tears and salt of sweat. In her highly evocative book, Monique Truong has managed to cover all of these and more, brining the colours, tastes and sights of both France and Vietnam vividly to life.<br />This book is the story of its narrator Binh, who beings life in a Catholic family in Vietnam before running away to sea and ending up in France, when he makes his way to Paris before become the chef to Gertrude Stein and Alice B Toklas (or GertrudeStein and Miss Toklas as he calls them). However, this is not a straight forward narrative. Binh dips back and forth in time. This is a feature that many writers lose control of, but Truong manages it masterfully, and it adds to the story, not detracts. Binh is a sensitive soul, and spends his days searching for love. Being a homosexual before World War II, this is not always an easy proposition, and is one that leads him to trouble more than once.<br />The true beauty of this book is the prose - the descriptions of the things Binh comes across are elegant and appropriate. He does not just cut himself with a knife, he `threads his flesh with silver'; cooking is so evocatively described that you can smell it. Binh is not a sympathetic character, but as he leads you further into his life, you can't but help feel for him, and how life has shaped his outlook. <br />This book will appeal to many different types of readers - those who are interested in historical fiction, those who like books featuring food, someone who wants a good story first and foremost, those who search for good prose. This book is a gem, and I am already looking forward to future works from this first time author.	2003-09-08
US	50740272	R3HU15S5YA9TUF	0140256407	607614484	The Magic Toyshop	Books	3	11	13	N	N	An odd coming of age tale	This is an odd story: Melanie and her siblings live a life of middle-class luxury until their parents die in a aeroplane accident in America. It quickly becomes apparent that their father had not thought of this possibility, so the house contents are sold up and the children sent to live with their mysterious Uncle Phillip in London.<br />So far, so not odd, we have all read a rich kid becomes poor through circumstance story. But this one is odd in that Uncle Phillip is a stern disciplinarian who resides over a poverty stricken household of his silent wife and her two brothers. Melanie cannot figure out why this woman has married her awful uncle, a malevolent puppet maker who cares more for his wooden creations than his family. The situation in the household slowly deteriorates, with the ill will seeming to grow as the days go by, until everything becomes undone in the violent climax.<br />Melanie is a character that it is hard to sympathise with, as though we are given insight into both her internal mental state and the awful things around her, I ended the book still not feeling a really knew her. Without giving away the plot, there seems to be a lot of inevitability that doesn't quite ring true. Or perhaps the author was attempting to underline how some people's life is swept on the currents of events they have no control over. Either way, I thought that the characters were interesting, I only wish that I could have understood their motivations a little better.	2003-09-05
US	50740272	R3JM7BCUQPQHMR	0060509287	838333927	A Few Short Notes on Tropical Butterflies: Stories	Books	3	7	15	N	N	Butterflies	Yet again, i seem to disagree with the majority of Amazon reviewers...it's not deliberate i hasten to add! <br />This is a collection of short stories that don't seem to be linked by a common thread - all the stories bar one feature fathers, many feature doctors and/or medical dramas (Murray trained in medicine), many feature India or Indian ex-patriates - but there is no one common theme. It could be that these stories are all Murray has written, but if not you have to ask yourself if the editor really thought things through. By halfway through, you start each story wondering if yet again Murray will be using the same themes....the story that is a bit different `Blue' with its austere setting, is all the more striking for not featuring the tropics. By the end, you feel that the writer is being arrogant, and rather than writing for a reader, he is simply working out his `issues' story after story to the detriment of enjoying his work.<br />Except for the last story, these don't seem to work very well as short stories, rather they feel  like chapters from novels; or perhaps ideas for novels that didn't quite grow.<br />While there is some lovely prose, there is not nearly enough to cover its flaws. The characters are interesting as isolated examples, but they become very boring when then seem to be in each story, just in a different guise - son/daughter dealing with clever and methodical father/grandfather while mother tries to grow as an individual. <br />It will be interesting to see if Murray writes a novel, and if so if he moves on to exploring new themes. Until then,	2003-09-05
US	50740272	R1NGQYS768F4AP	0860685179	171334439	Enchanted April	Books	4	53	55	N	N	Enchanting Read	For the start of this book I was a bit worried I wouldn't finish it, as it felt in the beginning like a terribly earnest `ladies' book; but I soon found out what a lovely book it is - I would call it charming if that wasn't so twee.<br />Four women - all strangers - spend a month sharing a house in Italy. Slowly but surely they slough off their old, grey skins and discover happiness. Much of this happiness comes simply from a change in their perceptions. Lotty, slightly fey, is the first to fall for the house's charms, and soon begins to act like the person she really is, rather than the quiet mousy woman her life has made her.  When her husband comes to visit he realises what a wonder his wife is, and though his motives for visiting were less than pure, he falls back in love with the woman he first married. Rose, who constantly battles to square any enjoyment in life with her conscious, has the same effect when her husband accidentally arrives near the end of her holiday - he realises that his wife is still the woman he first married.<br />The other two women also have their epiphanies - old Mrs Fisher realises that living in the past, her only enjoyment being memories of the good and the great she met in her youth, is not as enjoyable as she thought; she lightens up and moves on to let happiness in to her life. And beautiful Scrap - Lady Caroline - realises how empty her life is. Slowly through the book we see her formulate a future life, and though she hasn't reached it by the novel's end, you feel she will.<br />This is a clever book - it makes you question how your perceptions flavour your life, and it also makes you question your perceptions of others. If only we all had a house in Italy to spend time reflecting on these issues.....	2003-09-05
US	50740272	R22MJ7YPF8C2WK	0860688259	844807351	The Ante-Room (Virago Modern Classics)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Some mother's do have 'em	This is the story of a late 19th Century well-to-do Irish Catholic household, following the lives of its inhabitants over three days. There are many characters in this story - a mother dying of cancer and casting a long shadow over the household; her long suffering husband; some of her children - spoiled, syphilitic Reggie, chatelaine Agnes and married Marie; strange son-in-law Vincent; and family doctor William Curren. And this is just some of them!<br />This is not a short book, even if it is set over a short period of time, and is full of characters; but it is not very involving - perhaps this is because none of the characters are particularly likeable or engaging. Everyone comes across as being quite spoiled and bland - even the dying mother comes across as a silly woman who has continued to play favourites with her children and keeps herself alive for the least worthy of the brood. Or Agnes, ostensibly the heroine of the story - you just want to shake her and tell her to get on with her life and stop feeling sorry for herself.<br />This book has a lot of potential - multiple characters with complex relationships, an intense situation, an interesting historical setting (Bourgeoisie Catholic Ireland) - but it drags. The reader will continue to turn the pages in anticipation of reading a twist somewhere, but instead it slowly rolls towards the obvious conclusion.	2003-08-21
US	50740272	R3QHHH6G06PPBS	1853815810	495446190	The Dud Avocado (Virago Modern Classics)	Books	4	40	44	N	N	Yay, yay for Sally Jay!	The narrator of this story, Sally Jay, seems to have a lot in common with that other literary single-girl (pre-Bushnell days) Holly Golightly. She manages to combine innocence and world-weariness, rolling with her situation, no matter how chaotic it becomes. If anything, Sally Jay is Holly's older, slightly tougher sister.  A young woman who has been running away all her life, gets the chance to run away to Paris thanks to an avuncular uncle, and lives a pink-haired bohemian existence, trying to experience life to the full - affairs with older men, hanging out with artists, nights at the Ritz followed by dingy student cafes. In the odd beginning chapter (it feels like you have missed an introductory chapter, and it takes awhile before you feel like you know what is going on) she meets a boy/man she has always had a crush on, and her chaotic life becomes even messier. One of her descriptions of him - `I didn't know anyone he'd actually been wrong about - except of course me, but then as we know I am totally incomprehensible to everyone including myself' is shown by the end to be sadly true.<br />This is a well-written book - cleverly hiding its sinister elements in the light and deft descriptions Sally Jay gives of her life. You feel that sometimes she is trying to kid herself and the reader that really, everything's going to be all right. This is a genuinely entertaining read that still manages to encompass some big themes - the search for happiness and acceptance; making priorities in life; disillusionment and what it can do to temperament. Sally Jay is sure to stay with this reader for a long time.	2003-08-21
US	50740272	R1QLE5SBNOGKZK	0440111889	116293185	The Choirboys	Books	2	9	25	N	N	Is this really the pinnacle of the genre?	I will be the first to put my hand up and say that the cop/crime/thriller is not a genre that I usually dip into, so I am no judge of the blurb on my copy that says this is one of the `classics' of the genre. I do know that I grew up with a (Australian) policeman as a stepfather, and while some say that this is a true- to life description of police life, I must admit I didn't really think so. Perhaps America is very different than anything I have ever known.<br />The structure of the book is interesting - the denouement is actually stated at the beginning, and all the chapters are little vignettes or episodes of the varied actions the choirboys undergo: both on the job and after hours. This helps fill the reader in on why things ended the way they did, and therefore everything is neatly wrapped up at the end - something a lot of author's don't seem to manage. This book uses a well-worn technique of anti-hero as misunderstood hero. All the choirboys are policemen from the same station, and between them manage to encompass all the stereotypes - hard boiled veteran, soft rookie, [stubborn] caring thinker , the author even manages to include a token Black and Asian (who classes himself as Hispanic) - they're all here. And while the reader is filled in on the background of each individual who you feel the author tries to make as surprising or non-stereotypical as possible, they still come across as stock standard characters.<br />These choirboys generally misbehave in any manner imaginable. The impression the reader is left with is that the author is trying to make the book `real' by being as gross and anti-establishment as possible. Instead, I just thought they were all a group of obnoxious, self-righteous men that wouldn't' be worth the time of day, let alone a rather long novel. If delinquent cops who don't seem to do much but belittle the public they are meant to serve, and spend their down time drinking in the park and gang-banging groupies is your idea of a good read, this might be the book for you. Otherwise, I am guessing there are more enjoyable `classics' in this genre.	2003-08-21
US	50740272	RD9VJ2QJCTIUN	0297843311	848656052	What Not to Wear	Books	3	130	145	N	N	There are better guides out there, but it's a start	I am probably the only person in all of Britain who has bought this book without watching the series, so it has had to stand on the book alone for me. In this book two women, Trinny and Susannah, give tips on what type of clothes suit or are to be avoided for various body parts (e.g. big bust, small bust, fat tummy etc). They themselves feature modelling the clothes in question, and then list shops (British) where you can buy what suits you.  These pictures can sometimes be like corny `before and after' shots - `bad' clothes modelling with frowns and slouching, `good' outfits with a smile and great posture - but they are effective at showing you what the authors are trying to explain. The main point any reader would get from this book is dressing well is not rocket science. Every point made in this book is obvious - e.g. wearing a sleeveless top when you have big arms is only going to accentuate your big arms, not camouflage them. But seeing what some people are getting around in, obvious points obviously need reinforcing now and then.<br />This book has its faults - it manages to contradict itself in places. For example, Trinny (I think) is shown in an A-line skirt and this is sited as an example of `bad' dressing' for her body type, but later in the A-line skirt is there again, this time as a `good' example. Depends what you want to highlight or camouflage when you get out of bed in the morning I guess. And while some people might find the language a laugh (all talk of boobs and jugs and such) I found it a bit contrived. Again, I never saw the TV show, so I will admit that maybe I am missing something.<br />You don't *need* this book - surely most people could figure it all out for themselves by actually looking at themselves in the mirror before they leave the house in the morning. But perhaps it will be the nudge in the right direction for some, and reassurance for others that yes, they are doing it right.	2003-08-21
US	50740272	RDJ9VE80XWY34	0004723821	825473525	Vocabulary Expander (Collins Word Power)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Astounding, Astonishing...and that is just the first chapter	This is a great book for those out there that want to improve their vocab. I bought this not so much to expand my speaking vocab (many people would say i use too many words already!) but more so that i could pin down the exact meanings of words i come across in books: the type of words you can usually understand from context but don't *quite* know the exact meaning for.<br />Each chapter covers words starting with one letter. There are various exercises, all quite easy, and usually one fun one as well. Becuase these are all short, they are the type of thing you can knock-off in 10-15 minutes - before work or in a coffee break. I think that many readers will be surprised in how much they already know.<br />This is not the book for people who think the best way to improve their vocabularly is to read the dictionary from start to finish, and promise themselves they will use the word 'anthromorphism' five times in their conversation today. However, if you want to know a bit more about the words you use, and perhaps learn something interesting, this little book is for you	2003-08-14
US	50740272	RFEJPSBM1DTC0	0747273006	868084593	What's a Girl to Do?	Books	1	0	6	N	N	How did this get published	Oh Dear. There is a reason I don't read chic-lit, and this has yet again confirmed it - lack of a thought-out plot, paper thin characterisation, air-head prose, unbelievability, obvious man is stupid young woman is always best syndrome. The only good thing about this is if this sort of thing gets published, there is hope for better quality stuff trying to get a publisher.	2003-08-07
US	50740272	R1V0AZN3HZQDJZ	0393052028	692640862	Napoleon: His Wives and Women	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A worthy edition to the Napoleon book collection	An interesting and well-written book. Due to its focus, it skims over some of the areas regularly covered in books about Napoleon - there is not much detail on his military exploits. But there is a lot of material on 'Napoleon the man' - there is a lot about his background growing up in Corsica; the continuing influence of his family and the favours bestowed upon them; and all the women, especially the one woman who seemed to have genuinely moved him - Josephine. There was also a lot about Napoleon's tastes, likes, annoying habits and physical attributes. <br />This book would probably be most worthwhile for someone looking for a different aspect in the enormous collection of writings about Napoleon available today.	2003-08-07
US	50740272	R3EFXFPIVRWBQT	0060931418	624509678	Their Eyes Were Watching God	Books	4	0	0	N	N	One of the most beautiful books about joy	This is a truly beautiful book - not perfect, but full of enough glorious examples of prose that make it so wonderful to read. It is the story of Janie, a black woman raised by her grandmother, herself an ex-slave. Much of Janie's being is defined by her relationships with the three men in her life - Killicks, the older man her grandmother marries her off to before she is corrupted; Joe 'Jody' who convinces her to move away but is not all he promises to be; and Tea Cake, a younger man, the love of her life who takes her for herself as an individual, not the rich widow the other men see her as.<br />Neale Hurston has the language and metaphor to describe many aspects most other writers fumble with - the longing for happiness and the future you believe you deserve; the happiness you can find when you find your soul mate; the inner depths of the soul. Deep, important issues, but dealt with a light and lyrical touch. Despite all that happens to Janie you can't pity her, because she doesn't pity herself after meeting Tea Cake, and has experienced a level of happiness most people never know.<br />The one thing that can be a bit grating is the dialogue - it is all written as it is pronounced. This was probably the only way to do this authentically, and would have seemed odd if it wasn't, but it was still quite hard going.	2003-08-07
US	50740272	R327UW32DDVJ15	0385495765	73623014	Rat Pack Confidential: Frank, Dean, Sammy, Peter, Joey and the Last Great Show Biz Party	Books	3	1	3	N	N	perhaps the Ratpack just weren't as fascinating as they woul	The start of this book was not promising - the brief introductions to the members of the Ratpack - Frank Sinatra, Dean Martin, Sammy Davis Jr., Peter Lawford and Joey Bishop - with writing that felt contrived: trying a bit too hard to be edgy and hip. But as the book progresses it improves (or perhaps this reader just got used to it).<br />In telling the story of a group of entertainers, it inevitably ends up focusing on the most successful - in this case Frank. We learn a lot about his connections to the mob, and the Kennedys, but relatively little about his personal and family life. The other characters are mainly painted in regards to their relations to Frank, and therefore they come across as bit players supporting a single star - perhaps they were.<br />I learned a lot id dint' previously know - such as Sinatra's relationship with the Kennedys. But ultimately I felt this book was a bit shallow - perhaps the Ratpack just weren't as fascinating as they would have liked to think they were.	2003-08-07
US	50740272	R1X8FPCJDRVN36	0791061930	913038896	Twentieth Century Fashion: 100 Years of Style by Decade & Designer  Volume 2 1950-1999	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A good basic reference on the subject	A good reference book. The first section is organised by decades - 1900s to 1990s - with an interesting commentary of the trends, developments, designers and fashion movers and shakers of each decade. The main section of the book is then an alphabetical listing of designers, obviously with more information on some than others. Both sections are quite well illustrated. The only problem if have is who is left out - where is Elie Saab, for one? Otherwise, this is a very good introductory reference book.	2003-08-07
US	50740272	R1185UN3HHT4YN	039303853X	392180722	Ship Fever and Other Stories	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A great blend of fact and fiction	This is a collection of short(ish) stories, all based on natural history; some historical (the death of Linneaus) some in modern settings. Like any collection, some stories work better than others - my favourites were some of the historical stories - a woman who disputes the accepted theory that swallows hibernate under water during winter; and a story about a man searching the exotic faraway for new species to make him rich, yet learning much about himself in the process. All have interesting characters and subtly explored themes - the better stories have the themes woven in seamlessly.	2003-08-07
US	50740272	R2JPMJEO1PDAD0	0140161074	891040445	No Signposts in the Sea (Virago Modern Classics)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Musings on the meaning of life, love and meaning	This novel is the story of Edmund Carr, a man who is dying and chooses to spend his final days on an ocean going cruise so he can be close to Laura, the woman he loves from afar. The book is filled with the story of his journey, both physical and metaphysical. There are some genuine well-written and touching passages on the fragility of life, ambition and joy. It also covers, in admirable fashion, the difficulties of human interaction; for example, at one stage Edmund says of the Colonel, the man he sees as his competition for the affections of Laura \\"For the hundredth time I wish that I could dislike the man I hate.\\"<br />And I wish I could love a book like this that has some beautiful small pieces - but there are too many gaps to make a very good whole. As is stated in the forward of my Virago edition \\"No Signposts in the Sea is not a great novel.\\" It has a lot hat could be improved - none of the characters are fully fleshed out; Edmund too often slips into self-pity; the main characters are glib stereotypes - the Edmund is the stiff upper-lip buttoned up Brit, Laura is a cool still-waters-run-deep unattainable perfect woman; and the Colonel is a hard on the outside, soft on the inside military man - all characters we have seen before; and if by halfway through you haven't guessed the ending, there is something very wrong.	2003-08-07
US	50740272	R2OE578CZL9U3J	0871138255	745066592	The CEO of the Sofa	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Not one of his better efforts....	After all the brilliant books to come from the pen (word processor?) of O'Rourke, this comes as a bit of a disappointment. It is a disjointed effort - while it contains a lot of O'Rourke's usual wit, there isn't the cohesive theme you find in many of his other books. He rambles around, recording conversations with his assistant or teenage nephew for much of the book. There is his biting lampooning of the bad and not-so-great, and many salient points are made; but very often the humour feels contrived. Perhaps this is a book that needed just a little more spit and polish.	2003-08-07
US	50740272	R3B8CVVCXCS59K	0192837028	368367935	Germinal (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The classic fiction of capitalism and its effects	Now part of the canon, this story of a failed coal miners' strike is truly evocative of the wretchedness of life of the lowest of the low on the social scale. It paints a dire picture of work far below in the mines balanced against the misery going on above. Life is nothing but having desultory sex and scraping a living for the miners and their families, with no room for sentiment. The life of the mine-owners is also shown for all its inequality.<br />Zola manages both the individual character studies - wretched Catherine, who at 15 moves to live with her cruel lover for if not him, it will just be another; Etienne, the stranger who comes to town and in his grasping to advance his position in society drags a township down; and a town full of individuals - contrary, differing and very much alive. Zola also writes brilliantly of the thinking and actions of a mob. It is almost as though the mob has its own individual character and actions.<br />This is a brilliant, if pessimistic tale of the evils of capitalism in which the author also explores important universal themes - love, power, suffering, individuals and communities, the purpose of existence. Sadly, this book is as relevant today as the day it was written.	2003-08-07
US	50740272	R1SNO220E3A8MD	1573227889	440138927	Tipping the Velvet: A Novel	Books	3	4	8	N	N	THE lesbian coming of age story for now	Note - don't read this if you don't want to know the plot of the book in advance.<br />This is a deliberate lesbian coming of age/finding yourself novel - young Nancy, a Whitstable oyster girl (no, that's not the rude bit, even if it sounds like it) finds that she fancies women not men, follows a 'masher' (male impersonator) to the big smoke, ends up on the music hall stage as one herself before fleeing for the streets when she finds her lover sleeping with someone else - and a man no less.  She becomes a rent-boy, then the live-in plaything of Diana, a very wealthy widow. Again, she ends up on the streets and finds herself living in the household of social agitator Florence who is - surprise, surprise - a lesbian. They fall in love, overcome differences and potential splits, before heading into the future together.<br />This is improbably Victorian melodrama, with a main protagonist that you can't really like - she is a very annoying character at times. And embarrassingly badly written  sex scenes are always such - no matter what the combination. But this is still quite a readable book, even if it is strident in its attempt to be a 'lesbian' story.	2003-08-07
US	50740272	R3MINLP35D83QB	0553275976	678579754	The Bonfire of the Vanities	Books	5	3	4	N	N	What would Savonarola think?	This is probably *the* book of the 1980s - it explores the fragile, false world of Wall Street and Manhattan society with witty, cruel glee.<br />A one-off freak accident lands Sherman McCoy in a world of trouble. McCoy switches from a life of unquestioned privilege and superiority, to fear and questioning when the facts and evidence come together to point the finger at him for a hit and run.<br />Wolfe shows his brilliance as a writer with this book - his characters manage to be embodiments of stereotypes and complicated individuals at the same time. The reader feels sorry for un-likable characters. Little details build up - for example the male characters preening and deporting themselves in ways they think make them look strong, powerful and handsome, only when we are given another point of view we see that they just look silly and vain - the vanities of this book are many and varied (Savonarola, he of the original bonfire of the vanities, would probably be happy with the comeuppances this book provides).<br />Ultimately, this book is a modern classic because it manages to successfully combine all the elements - explorations of society, equality and motivation that still manages to be a great story; sparkling and witty prose that is never really flippant. It is a book that makes you think and manages to entertain at the same time.<br />It took me a long time to track down a copy of this book, but it was worth it - Sherman McCoy, his friends (so called), adversaries, and everyone in between, make a fascinating morality tale with a moral that manages to be blindingly clear and ambiguous at the same time.	2003-08-07
US	50740272	R2IRAHZQYDKN6B	1592400051	663608662	Madame Sadayakko: The Geisha Who Bewitched the West	Books	4	9	9	N	N	An interesting addition to the 'Geisha book' phenomenon	Sada became a trainee Geisha as a very young girl, soon rising to the highest echelons available to her - her Danna (patron) was one of the most important men in the country, and she was as renowned as a woman could be in Japan at the time. She married an actor, and eventually travelled to the West, where she began acting as part of a Japanese acting troupe, touring their mish-mash version of Japanese dance and theatre through America and Europe. Sadayakko was always the star of the show, and was one of the highlights of the Paris Exposition. Sada returned to Japan and founded an acting school for girls.<br />This is a well-written book, the author being most famous for her book on Geishas. Many readers will probably come to this book searching for another read on Geishas, and if this is the case, they may be a little disappointed - Downer does not write in too much details about this time in Sada's life, choosing to concentrate on her overseas travels. However, this does not detract from the overall story. What does is the fact that Downer states some things as fact when they must be supposition: \\"He stood watching until she disappeared from view. He could not help noticing her sweetness and pride and the skill with which she handled her horse.\\" I can almost guarantee that there is no written record anywhere that on the exact occasion in question the man who saw Sadayakko was thinking those exact thought. This is a fault of many biographers, and it will probably be overlooked by all but the nitpickers like this reader.<br />This is a book I would recommend to the growing number of readers interested in Japanese history and culture, and also to anyone interested in the cultural currents of the late 19th Century, as Madame Saddayakko had a far reaching influence in the realms of drama, dance and fashion for the Japan-crazed period.	2003-08-07
US	50740272	R3DT0JGQUXAI32	0060522259	132584057	Elegance: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A step above chic-lit	Louise's life is going nowhere - her job, her marriage, her life - they are all grey. She comes upon a book that instructs on how to be elegant, and through working on how she looks, she completely changes her life; and along the way she discovers how her past has effected her present. There are some interesting observations on what passes for fulfilment in this modern world - how looking the part can sometimes get you the part; and could be seen as a meditation on finding out what you really want out of life and going for it.<br />This book has its faults - the narrator/protagonist is not very likeable, and how can someone on a part-time job afford to buy multiple items from La Perla?? But if it is taken as a light, slightly posy name-dropping label obsessed step above chic lit, it could be extremely entertaining. Or maybe I am just fashion/style obsessed and shallow. (But the send up of the modern day Sloane Rangers is very funny).	2003-08-07
US	50740272	R1WUJ9Y5WZ19VS	0375414053	271266648	I Don't Know How She Does It: The Life of Kate Reddy, Working Mother	Books	4	0	3	N	N	Luckily, this is not a soapbox	The story of Kate Reddy, the city trader mother of two small children who struggles to be perfect in both the home and work spheres, while battling an industry that doesn't believe in giving mothers a break. In her attempt to be good at absolutely everything, she never manages to reach any of her high standards. This is a great book, with large lashings of humour that many readers will identify with - even if you are not a mother (or not even a woman) you are sure to find moments in this book you identify with - the struggle to reach your goals, annoying relatives, attempting to keep up with the Joneses. There is a 'story' to hold this all together and try to make it more than just a list of goings on (this book developed out of a newspaper column), and while that works, I found the day-to-day description of Kate's life the interesting thing. <br />In the end, it all comes to a head, and Kate acknowledges something has to give (Don't read any further if you don't want to know a main plot point)and chooses family over work - her husband is a big factor in this. Her choice feels a bit of a let down/sell out - I wanted her to manage both and show everyone it can be done - but even when she 'retires' she can't quite give up, hatching future plans.<br />I liked Kate, and even though I don't have children myself, I identified with her - the unfairness of expectations on who does what in the home sphere being an annoyance I totally understand. I also like the fact that the author doesn't resort to making all the male characters bastards and all the female characters angels.<br />This is a really enjoyable book - like me, you might come to this book expecting a soapbox, but luckily, you would be wrong.	2003-08-07
US	50740272	R1IH11WL5V8F7H	0553213415	73897934	Madame Bovary (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	There is a reason this is regarded a classic	There is a reason this is a classic - it is a very well written (or translated in the case of the version I read) story about convincing characters and universal themes.<br />Emma Bovary, the wife of a provincial doctor who is devoted to her, turns to extra-marital affairs in an attempt to escape the suffocating boredom of her middle-class existence. Flaubert skilfully explores the motives behind these relationships for both partners concerned,  refusing to paint Emma as an innocent romantic or a harlot, but rather attempts to place her in a shifting grey area in the middle.<br />Par to Flaubert's skill is the fact the story doesn't feel determined - Emma could have lived and thrived and it would have been just a believable as her suicide. The author also has a wonderful touch in describing settings and supporting characters - the local apocathary, striving and unfairly thriving - is just one of the many interesting supporting characters. This book has stood the test of time, and can be read not just in the context of the period it was written in or as another book to be ticked off on the list of French Classics to be read before you die - this is a book that can be enjoyed simply because it is a good story that is well told.	2003-08-07
US	50740272	R3AV7TFL11G6EC	0375403973	608378585	Emma's War: An aid worker, a warlord, radical Islam, and the politics of oil--a true story of love and death in Sudan	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Hope and misery; despair and love	The Emma in question is a want-to-be aid worker who got caught up in the feuds of Sudan, marrying the warlord leader of one of the multiple factions in Sudan's wars. It is an interesting story in itself but it is only part of Scroggins' book, which explores the Sudan and its fractious history, building some kind of explanation of how Sudan got itself into the mess it is in today. She also explores the influence of Western humanitarian aid, questioning the motives of those involved. The conclusions reached are bleak and depressing, yet sadly realistic. <br />There is a lot of detail in the book - tribes involved, their interwoven politics, the personalities of those involved and their backgrounds. What could have been a very dry read is made fascinating by Scroggins - she never takes anything or anyone at face values, exploring the story behind the story.<br />Anyone who thinks they understand what the Horn of Africa needs should read this book before saying anything. It may not be the full story, but it makes many valid and well thought out points.	2003-08-07
US	50740272	R977MS4OAS37G	0312421273	647099960	The Corrections: A Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A Middle America Microcosm	What more can be said about one of the most talked about Oprah choices (even if it didn't remain such for long)? The bare bones of this story sound very boring - retired Alfred and his wife Enid live in the American Mid-West - he is fading into Parkinson's disease, she is trying to ignore this fact. Their three grown children have moved East, trying to escape their boring middle American lives and now read as a catalogue of the dysfunctional aspects of modern American lives. Pretty ho-hum.<br />But this is definitely not a boring book - it is a funny, fascinating and clever story with seriously flawed, seriously real characters. This book is absorbing from the beginning. Franzen jumps back and forth through time easily, explaining why people have ended up how they are. Never has Middle America seemed such a fascinating microcosm of human existence.	2003-08-07
US	50740272	RMFIAS5EXGKB	0743455967	44310359	On Writing	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An insight into the work of someone who knows	I have only ever read one of King's novels, when I was about nine years old. I don't remember much about it, only that I was scared stiff, and that reading it under the bed covers with a torch was probably not a good idea. Since then, his work has never really appealed, but this book has changed my mind - if his novels are as good as his non-fiction, they would be worth the effort.<br />This first third of this book is a brief background of King's life - his chaotic childhood, his menial jobs and teaching before his breakthrough, and a very honest opinion of his battles with addiction.<br />The main section of the book is taken up with how King writes. He writes this part as a how-to, but it can also be taken as an insight into how a successful author does his thing. A lot of how he does it differs from the traditional how-to-write guides, but it seems to work. I really like the idea of not using outlines and plots, but working on uncovering 'the fossil' as you go. <br />The last section tells of King's life-threatening accident. It reads as a very harrowing ordeal, but King infuses this part with the humour used throughout the book.<br />An interesting, funny and inspiring read for want-to-be authors and appreciators of good writing alike.	2003-08-07
US	50740272	R3BO68HESCD7LI	0385722109	660348741	Hotel World	Books	1	3	9	N	N	I disagree with most reviews - i just didn't like it	I know that i am going against the grain here, but i do NOT think this is a good book. Or even an average book. Hotel World was shortlisted for the Booker Prize and the Orange Prize for Fiction in 2001. I find that very scary. This to me is a pretentious, try-hard attempt at fiction. There are five separate, tenously connected narratives written in various first-person styles. Not a bad premise, but Smith manages to leave it dead in the water. The only really interesting section is from the perspective of a dead character. There are a few interesting snippets, but they are mired in boring dross about characters that i couldn't manage to care about - i kept waiting for a character to grab me - and they didn't. Even the attempt at a resolution didn't bring it together. What a shame.	2003-07-31
US	50740272	R3QNM9JH7TUOK9	0312305060	785940945	The Hours	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Better than the book it is based on	This is the story of three women - Virginia Woolf; Mrs Brown, and 1950s housewife; and Clarissa, a book editor in the 1990s. The story is told in alternating vignettes, the connecting thread being the book 'Mrs Dalloway'. It builds slowly, carefully building the ties that bind these three very different women.<br />In places the writing is *very* self-conciously trying and pretentious, almost unbearably so. It redeems itself, however, with some beautiful stand alone sentences, and especially the wonderfully captured sense of despair and futility felt by Laura Brown. <br />The obvious literary style is infuriating at times, but there are some passages of true beauty, and the three seperate lives work well. This book is worth reading if well written prose is what you are after.	2003-07-31
US	50740272	R2RIHKH45T6Y92	0786863498	874207183	Holy Smoke	Books	2	0	1	N	N	I only hope the movie was better	I haven't seen the movie of this book, and to be honest, i am not very inspired to now. <br />The story is about a girl tricked into returning to her family in Australia, as she was in an Ashram in India where she was to marry her guru. She is taken into the bush to be 'deprogrammed' by an expert brought in from America to do the deed.<br />Meant to be an exploration about feelings, relationships and power, this story comes out as mainly tosh, swapping from the first person perspective of PJ (the deprogrammer) to Ruth (the deprogrammee). It isn't helped by being full of caricatures insted of characters. This book was a big let down, and i would suggest trying something else instead.	2003-07-31
US	50740272	R79V7GSAKJDYI	0156028778	990216712	The Crimson Petal and the White	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Broad, sweeping, huge, and well worth the effort	This is a huge (833 page) novel set in Victorian London, cnetering on Sugar, and unusual and intelligent prostitute; and William Rackham, the man who makes himself and business success to keep her as his lover. There is an immense cast of characters - dandies, crones, mad wives, up-right religious reformers, the high and low classes. In a few places the book feels a bit wordy, and in most cases Faber carries it off well.<br />There are some big themes explored in this book - Victorian hypocrasy, sexuality, gender, family - but none of it gets int he way of a good story. At first Sugar seemed annoyingly too good to be true, but as the book progressed she became reassuringly human.  There were some very annoying characters - William's wife Agnes is the ultimate spoiled middle class woman, and he is a close second ont he need-to-slap stakes - but Faber does a good job of making them well rounded characters rather than stereotypes or caricatures.<br />The book doesn't keep the pace up the whole way through, but has a good attempt trying to. The ending is great - you will agree that there was not much else the author could do. <br />This book is long but very rewarding - this is a convincing look at Victorian London and the varying strata of its society	2003-07-31
US	50740272	R3VS0X8QMQI2P4	0375758992	837040016	Don't Let's Go to the Dogs Tonight: An African Childhood	Books	4	3	4	N	N	The alternative to out of africa	This is the story of growing up white in 1970s Africa - hard scrabble farming, misery, family eccentricity seeming normal when you don't know any different. 'Bobo' (Fuller) survives when other siblings don't, somethign that turns her mother from a funny drunk into a mad and morose drunk. Her mother is one of the most interesting and powerful characters to feature in a book full of interesting characters.<br />This is an interesting story, well told, about growing up white and poor in post-Independance Africa (they move through various countries) but it seems to be missing a certain 'something' - joy perhaps, or just a let up? That is the problem with real life narratives sometimes - they don't always read as well as fiction. But this book is interesting and well worth the read never the less.<br />Finding a lifestyle and livelihood in desperation has become a cliched theme in books right now (blame the success of 'Angela's Ashes') but this book transends most of that genre.	2003-07-31
US	50740272	RKCJZP54U26LY	0879517123	231524918	Lawrence: The Uncrowned King of Arabia	Books	3	3	3	N	N	An uneven book about a fascinating man	This is a large and invovled biography of T E Lawrence, written by an author who starts out as an admirer, and remains so to the end, though to a much lesser degree.<br />Though there is a lot of information about the battles in the desert, i found this book most interesting when the author explores Lawrence's psyche and personality, and attempts (not always successfully or believably) at the truth behind the myth. He tests a lot of the claims about the great man, and mainly finds them wanting. This book is especially strong when it admits that it comes to no definate conclusion - rather, the author presents the facts as he sees them and lets the reader decide. <br />This book is probably one of the better Lawrence biographies out there at the moment (though i would not say nearly the best) as it delves into the contradictions of the man and the myuth, and isn't afraid to 'pull punches' and not make excuses for the more troubling aspects of Lawrence's personality.<br />I finished this book wondering why such a genius felt compelled to fabricate so much about his life, but also seeing him as more ' three-dimensional' than the common myth.	2003-07-31
US	50740272	R1LM8DYEJZJ7TP	0156628708	179043206	Mrs. Dalloway	Books	2	7	16	N	N	A bit of a wade....	Like many others i am sure, the reason for reading this was the Hours - i haven't seen the movie, don't plan to, but at the time i wanted to know what the fuss was about. And the fuss is about a arather boring stream of consiciousness style ramble about a pretenious, boring upper-class woman living in London and a (mentally) battle scarred man also living in London, with brief crossings of their tangents here and there. There are a few sentences of particularly lyrical writing, but the main impression is &quot;And the point is?&quot; The narrative is practically non-existent (not always a hindrance, but it is in this book). The characters are boring, except for the wife of Septimus, the man mentioned above - she is not given the room she is due. If this is classic Woolf, i will have to avoid her work in future - Orlando was bearable, but i could not see the point of this.<br />Stick to The Hours - it is a much better book!	2003-07-31
US	50740272	RR1872YPGE3SR	1841151661	9325904	England: The Making of the Myth from Stonehenge to Albert	Books	2	0	0	N	N	This is a good book hiding in a mediocre book	This is a good book hiding in a mediocre book. An exploration of what the English think of themselves and why, including the historical aspects that form these ideas. But this book ranges far and wide, yet never reallay makes any firm points, with wishy-washy swipes at how what the English think of as their nherent Englishness isn't really, maybe, kind of. (Yes, it's that kind of book) The last chapter especially is bland - a swipe at New Labor and Modern Britain that really misses its chance to say anything important. There are some interesting facts and snippets, but nothing feels particularly revealing or explanatory.<br />A disappointing read - i have been living in the UK for 18 months and i hoped to learn something new.	2003-07-31
US	50740272	RIG6Q05OBS0G7	1573229725	595147475	Fingersmith	Books	3	7	13	N	N	So much promise	I know i am not going to win many friends by giving this book only three stars, but each to their own.....<br />this book started *so* well - a Dickensian style story based in Victorian England, it tells the tale of Sue, who leaves the den of theives she has grown up in to live in a Manor House as maid to an odd girl whom is to be tricked out of her fortune.Unfortunately, Sue comes to feel for her mistress, but is trapped in a plot to undo her. To tell more would be to give the plot away. But so far, so good. This is about the first third of the book.<br />Then we read the story from the point of view of the other girl, Maud. We learn of her bizarre past, which i don't think i am giving too much away by saying it includes mad houses, an eccentric Uncle and erotic literature.<br />In the final third the plot gets very convoluted - it includes babies swapped at birth among other melodramatic turns. I continued to read to see if the book would live up to its promising start, but it never does, which is a pity. And the ending is very pat and boring. In general, it is over long and too melodramatic.<br />There are some plusses - it manages to avoid some pit-falls of over dramatic writing, and the sex is written in a non-cringeworthy manner.	2003-07-31
US	50740272	R2KMAYKIGXD4RR	0060392452	194848581	Stupid White Men ...And Other Sorry Excuses for the State of the Nation!	Books	4	6	9	N	N	An interesting polemic on the state of America	There is a lot of logic i find very skewed int his book - especially parts about blacks and women. However, i will read these sections again and again, along with the others, to experience the insightful, thought-provoking  writing Moore provides. There is so much in this book that provokes sharp intakes of breath - the stupidity and duplicity in 'the system' in the US today is really breathtaking.<br />This is a polemic, but Moore never pretends to be writing anything other than a book from his own point of view (and a well researched book at that). I wish everyone (especially every American) would read this book - even if they didn't agree with everything (or anything) Moore has to say, it might make them think. Definately had that effect on me.	2003-07-31
US	50740272	RSTQ039HAJK2L	0312420366	119057404	The Debt to Pleasure: A Novel	Books	4	9	10	N	N	The Debt to Pleasure is a pleasure itself	I love reading about food - whether it be a description in a novel or a book specifically written about food. This is somewhere in the middle -  a novel which is a parody of the foodie memoir.<br />The narrator Tarquin is a self-important snob, travelling from the UK to his home in Provence. He shares his thoughts on food and recipes, and also fills in the reader about his past. We learn that not only is he deluded about his own ability and living under the shadow of his world-renowned artist brother; but slowly we discover he is a very devious character as well.<br />This is a well written, funny story, and has the requisite yummy food writing (highly inspiring!) but it loses a star because of Tarquin's long winded philosophical discourses. I know it's a parody but....	2003-07-31
US	50740272	RXNFJHGKCT67F	030435452X	574337120	Wingate and the Chindits: Redressing the Balance (Cassell Military Paperbacks)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	An interesting man, but is it an interesting tale?	A biography of a fascinating man, one of the most determined and unorthodox military leaders of WWII, who to this day can inspire extreme love or loathing. While intersitng to read about, he would have been very annoying to work with.<br />This book covers both his upbringing and the miliary campaigns he was involved in. (I especially found the influence of religion interesting - he was instrumental in the early ideas on the founding of Israel) Fascinating topic, not so fascinatingly written - could have done with much tighter editing and explanation of many miliary terms and acronymns.<br />Still, i am pleased i read it to learn more about Wingate, and the interesting story about his reputation, and like T E Lawrence, how it was shaped before and after his death	2003-07-30
US	50740272	R3L1XVREEUNTRE	0679777504	728817726	Oscar and Lucinda	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A magnificent obsession, a beautiful relationship	A wonderful, evocative novel about an eccentric parson and a prickly heiress, who manage to dance around their true emotions for much of the book; as a reader you want to take them both and shake some sense into them, Carey's writing making them seem like real people who you could touch and feel. Set in Devon and Sydney of the mid-19th century, this is a book full of so many wonderful words, not one out of place - beautiful descriptive prose, fantastically drawn characters (even the minor ones) and a tragic story that sucks you in so you feel outrage that it has ended. Carey writes a Dickenisan story that appeals to modern readers, this is a wonderful, wonderful book - i handed it on to someone else straight away so that they could experience it too. The kind of book you wish everyone could experience	2003-07-30
US	50740272	R30JB8R335BJ7B	039575514X	584095688	My Antonia	Books	5	1	1	N	N	What a classic is all about	This book should be regarded as a classic for so many reasons. The story of Antonia, a Bohemian immigrant girl who meets the narrator Jim when they both move to Nebraska around the same time is moving without being mawkish. As we follow Jim and Antonia through childhood to adolescence, moving from country to town, there is a interesting narrative to follow, and it can be read simply as a story if you want. However, the true power of this book is that through the narrative and the characters, the reader is asked to explore many elemental themes - how our childhood forms us, human motivation and emotions, and themes of belonging among others - without ramming these points down the readers throats. The really amazing thing is that this book was first published in 1918 (i think?) and still reads as fresh and relevant today.<br />The other strenght of this book is the title character - though Antonia is continually dealt blows by fate, she continues to shine with a faith in life and other people that is truly inspiring. I would recommend this book to anyone.	2003-07-30
US	50740272	R46SMYBN5051G	0553277472	340684550	Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance: An Inquiry into Values	Books	2	2	6	N	N	It took two goes, but i got there	I managed to get the whole way through on my second attempt at this odd book - hard core philosophical discussion mixed in with the narrator recalling his past life as an insane philosophy-seeker mixed with the story of a road trip. <br />The philosophy is so involved that it is esoteric and actually usually boring rather than mind expanding. And there is very little Zen!! It is hard to feel for the central character - he seems so interesting until he starts becoming so invovled in mind numbing minutiae. But there are some great sections on the riding and the 'art' that can be found in 'non-art' activities like motorcycle maintenance.	2003-07-30
US	50740272	R1HGIRJZBB9HEE	0312199511	980961835	Quarantine: A Novel	Books	4	5	6	N	N	yet another interesting offer from Crace	Quarantine takes as its basis the story of Jesus forty days in the desert. But rather than focusing only on Jesus, Crace introduces other characters into the picture  Musa the conniving merchant and his put-upon, pregnant wife Miri; Aphas, an old man suffering from cancer who has gone into the desert as a last resort attempt at a cure; Marta, an infertile woman who is undertaking the quarantine in an attempt to prove her worthiness to bear a child; Shim, a wannabe aesthete who is perhaps not as above the worries of the secular world as he would like; and a mysterious Badu, a (perhaps) mad  tribesman.<br />Quarantine uses these characters to explore themes of belief and the interactions between humans when they are outside of their normal element. As with other Crace writing, the prose in this novel is terrific, and he manages just as well with descriptions of the landscape as he does his characters. This is a small ensemble for such an intense novel, but it works well  we see society at large explored in this small microcosm.<br />Unlike some modern-day tales based on stories from the Bible, Crace has not attempted to modernise his story too much (unlike a past story I read which managed to have Judas as a paedophile, Mary suffering from breast cancer, and various gay and disabled characters to give it a more realistic feel). He has managed to explore age-old themes in an ancient setting, yet bring a modern feel to the work. If you take your Bible to be the word of God, and dont like reinterpretations, I would suggest that you dont attempt this book  you will probably throw it away in disgust. But for the rest of us, there is a great reading experience waiting in yet another offering from one of todays most eclectic and versatile authors.	2002-07-31
US	50740272	R25OST1IR0KQPD	0802135781	105145318	Sexing the Cherry (Winterson, Jeanette)	Books	4	26	28	N	N	Sexing the Cherry	One of the first things that struck me about this book is how it was so similar to Virginia Woolf's 'Orlando'. Both books are based on the premise that time is flexible, rather than a linear progression, and both combine fantastical elements with historical fiction. They even both use the Thames as an allegory for main themes. Whether this similarity will put off other readers, I don't know, but I felt that it did not detract from the merit of 'Sexing the Cherry'.<br />This is foremostly a grown-ups fairy tale - there are dancing princesses, a giant woman, magic, towns dying of love. Set (mainly) in England at the time of Cromwell, the tale is told in alternating sections by Dog-Woman (the giant woman) and Jordan. Dog Woman, who is a loner living with her many dogs,  discovered Jordan as a child on the bank of the Thames. They have some amazing experiences, though this is what you would expect to happen to such an amazing woman. This is a grown-up's fairy tale in that there is a lot of sex and violence (this book is not for the squemish!) Winterson explores some very 'heavy' topics, such as the construction of identity and reality, and the realities of time. However, this doesn't read as a deep book - it is beautifully written in places, and could be enjoyed for the prose alone.<br />There are modern day characters included in this story, and I didn't feel that this worked as well as the historical characters. However, this is a very good book. It is not particulary long, so even if you don't enjoy it, at least you haven't wasted your time wading through a thick tome! I would definately suggest that anyone interested gives it a go.	2002-07-29
US	50740272	R1BI1I7WS0DC9U	034910171X	133733347	Canal Dreams	Books	1	1	2	N	N	I would say pass	Iain Banks is a highly respected writer. And the premise of this book - a musician trapped in the Panama Canal, due to the fact that she is travelling by ship because of a fear of flying. There are enough interesting ancillary characters to go somewhere. So why one star?<br />Where do i start? Partly because of the annoying dream sequences that have absolutely no relevance to the story. Partly due to the fact that none of the characters are really developed. Partly because the cutting between the present and past of the central character is annoying. And partly becuase the story is simply stupid.  The only reason that i have given it one star is because it started off with an interesting premise.<br />I seriously recommend that you don't waste your time on this book. Perhaps there are better Bank's books out there to fill your time.	2002-07-24
US	50740272	R3OS4BKV3ZI8U5	0871137380	189891237	Black Hawk Down: A Story of Modern War	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One of the best battle book there	It is my hope that Ridley Scott's great movie will make more people to decide to read this book. Black Hawk Down is a realistic and gripping read about one of the USA military's most influential actions since Vietnam. Bowden has done a great job, especially considering that he does not have a military background.<br />If you are looking for a book about the history of the Somalian conflict, this is not your book. But if you are looking for a book that gives as realistic an interpretation of modern warfare on the ground as you are likely to see, read this book. Bowden has managed to capture the confusion, fear and action in a straightfoward manner that will keep you turning the pages, and perhaps teach you something. I have read many books about defense and the military, both historical and modern day. This would have to be one of the best accounts of what goes on, on the ground, that i have ever read. And before i am accused of being a gung-ho American - i am actually an Australian, and it didn't detract from my reading at alll.<br />Well worth the time and effort!!	2002-07-22
US	50740272	R31FZDGZOL6ZI	1569472343	401690791	Hokkaido Highway Blues	Books	5	7	8	N	N	One of the best books on travel in Japan	Will Ferguson has managed a pretty special feat in the writing of this book - he has managed to be funny and poetic in turns, and show the different facets of Japanese life by telling us about the people he meets and the places he goes on his travel from the South to the North of Japan, following the Sakura (Cherry Blossom).<br />This is not your usual travel book. For starters, Ferguson travels (mostly) by hitch-hiking, and therefore meets a wide variety of everyday Japanese people in his travels. The only musuem he writes about is one that has a rather large stone vagina. He is in turns dimissive and exhultant about Japanese culture. He is, in other words, typical of most of us who spend any time in Japan - he realise that he both loves and hates the place, and that the sooner you come to terms with this the better.<br />This is  not your typical book about Japan, and is all the better for it. Some books written by Westerners about Japan end up being love stories written about a country that doesn't really exist. Some end up being rants about an evil empire, that similarly doesn't exist. Ferguson brings us Japan as he sees it, and to me it is believable. <br />And by the way - this is a very funny book. Insightful and humourous. What a bargain.	2002-07-18
US	50740272	R2C3GTDV0DIF08	0752809431	455194964	A Good Hanging (Inspector John Rebus Series)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Very good first time Rebus	As I am staying in Scotland for 6 months, I thought it was time I tried an Inspector Rebus book (they are set in Edinburgh, though I am living in Glasgow). This collection of short stories, and some are very brief, was a great introduction to Rankine's work, in as much as he has made me want to read more! If this collection is anything to go by, Inspector Rebus is going to be one of my favourites.<br />And for those of you who are sick of crime fiction - I am not a fan of crime fiction at all, but I found this book to be extremely well written and clever. And yet crime fiction fans seem to love it too?	2002-07-16
US	50740272	R3W3589HCP2LSX	0060959037	822422067	Prodigal Summer: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A beautifully written tale about small town life	My basis for choosing to read 'Prodigal Summer' was the fact that one of the best books I read last year was Kingsolver's ' The Poisonwood Bible.' I was not disappointed - 'Prodigal Summer' is a great novel.<br />Kingsolver's background as a biologist comes through strongly in this book - 'nature' is as much a character as any person. Through the telling the stories of three characters - an almost-hermit like woman living in the forest, ; an old widower and a young widow, whomat first do not seem connected - the author explore a small community sympathetically, showing us that stories do nto need to be sweeping an dramatic to be interesting; there is tradgedy, humour and beauty in everyday lives. As the book progresses, we see the multitude of ways these stories interconnect - both through relationships, and connections to inanimate objects ( a hollow chstnot log and an old brocade overed chair are two examples). Kingsolver reveals these connections delicately, and it doesn't seem laboured at all - just a purely natural progression in your knowledge of the characters. <br />My judgement of a good book in may cases is how much it makes me think, and on those ground, this book rates highly. It is also beautifully written. As one of the characters in the book says &quot;trying to teach a lesson that people have forgotten to know.&quot;. this book has a message, beautifully packaged in a story based on ordinary lives, which we all know are extraordinary in their own way.	2002-07-16
US	50740272	R3CLAH33R3FNUG	037570924X	236185551	An Equal Music: A Novel	Books	3	6	8	N	N	An unequal effort	This book has been billed as one of the greatest novels about music. I don't think so. What we have a a tale about a violin player, who leaves his one true love, doesn't bother to tell her where he's going or why, and then regrets it ever since. And the violin player in question is a immature prat, to be honest.<br />We start the story years after, when the central character spots his love (who he has no idea was in London, where he lives) on a bus, and chases after her, only to fail. From here on in, we get an idea of what an empty life he is leading. It is hard to say any more without giving the plot away (which I hate in reviews), so you will just have to read it for yourself if you are that interested.<br />As a one time musician, I felt that Seth didn't quite get the music practice scenes in this book right. I am not saying that they are not well written, just someing about them doesn't ring true - the dialogue from the rehersals, the talk about practicing. However, I thought his sections where the quartet perform on stage were spot-on. Perhaps other performers would feel differently than me on this.<br />I love writers who can fill their books with beautiful writing about the things I am interested in - food (Toni Morrison is excellent in this regard), music, love, travel. Sadly, Seth has let me down. Which is a shame, because he really is such a greater writer in other cases.	2002-07-02
US	50740272	RZTDPSWKQ4XSY	0385490445	107805179	Alias Grace: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A fantastic book	Atwood here is at her best. This is the tale tale of the supposed murderess Grace, a servant in 19th century Canada who was accused of taking part in the murder of her master and his housekeeper. While throughout the book Grace professes her innocence, you will spend almost all of your reading wondering if her claims are true, or if you, the reader, are just the next in a long line of people Grace has fooled. Rather than being an annoyance, this is one of the most enjoyable features of the whole experience.<br />This story is based on fact, and Atwood has done an admirable job of bringing together what is known and material that is her own invention. Much of this book reminds me of A S Byatt's 'Possession', especially in the use of poetry and other written sources to frame the story.<br />What is most enjoyable in this novel is Atwood's description of familiar things - she has an amazing ability to write about clothing and furniture. You get a feeling that this is a woman that has a love of inanimate objects, or attractive ones anyway! As with other Atwood works, there is a strong undercurrent of sex - not just the act itself, but how it effects our behaviour and our attitudes to others. There is a strong feeling that Grace is a seductress, conciously or not. I think that Atwood also makes some very astute judgements in regards to sex and socieites views of women in this book.<br />If you have enjoyed this book, i can almost guarantee that you will enjoy 'the Blind Assassin', also by Margaret Atwood.	2002-07-02
US	50740272	R31DIRXXIAQN6H	0312287739	57804293	The Love of Stones: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Gem of a book about Stones	This is a very good book. An almost outstanding book really. WHile reaidng it, I was carried away - I wished I lived in a mansion in Turkey, I thought I could be a gem-smuggler, I was entranced by the Victorian history.<br />So why not five stars? Was it the protagonist, Katherine, who is someone that you just can't feel for? While I would admit that I really didn't care what happened to her, it did not get in the way of enjoying the story. Was it the fact that the real stars of the show were inanimate things - the stones in question? No, I found them fascinating. Was it the fact that the story slid between two periods of time? No, that was done seamlessly. <br />What did lose it a star was the overly contrived elements - the love story that Katherine becomes involved in at the end (no more details in case you haven't read it yet) and the story of the rag-and-bones girl who becomes involved with the protagonists in the Victorian era story. Which is such a shame, because everything else in this story rang true, and was particularly well written	2002-07-01
US	50740272	R2WFJM1RPMOW7K	0380727501	157497316	Notes from a Small Island	Books	3	1	5	N	N	Interesting take on Blighty	As I have stated before, I am not a Bill Bryson fan, unlike probably every other reader out there. So I come to this review with an admittedly jaundiced view.<br />Notes from a Small Island is an okay book. But the things that I don't particulary like about Bryson's writing - how he can be so petty for the sake of forcing a laugh, his need to be cynical - are what lets this book down. Don't get me wrong, I like a bit of cynicism. But sometimes it just seems a bit forced with Bryson.<br />This is Bryson's farewell story, as he travels around the British Isles (though not in one complete journey) before returning to the United States. Some of his insights are particularly clever (his reference to the 'Festival of Rubbish' is just so accurate - I am sure that most of you who have already read the book laughed at that point), and you get a feeling that Bryson really does care for his adopted home. But I found his never-ending details of his breakfasts and facilities boring (he is not a great food writer), and it sometimes feels like &quot;It's Thursday, must be ...&quot; as opposed to a good look at an interesting (or even boring) part of Britain.<br />As another 'outsider' who has been in and out of the UK since the beginning of the year, there were some points in this book that struck me as being insightful comments on British culture. But they were hidden in a pretty average book.	2002-07-01
US	50740272	R22JVXHXOYQNDR	1864501472	702145754	Lonely Planet Britain (Britain, 4th ed)	Books	4	9	15	N	N	What you see is what you get.	Soem people buy Lonely Planet guides and use them like bibles. Some people buy Lonely Planet guides so that they can avoid anything that is recommended and therefore avoid the people who use them like bibles. Then there is the middle road, who buy them to fill in the gaps. <br />My travels in Britain have not relyed on my copy of Lonely Planet. I try not to rely on any guide. But sometimes you need something other than the local tourist brochures, websites and recomendations from friends. You can do a lot worse than this guide for filling that gap.	2002-07-01
US	50740272	R2TF1HMXHVLCVQ	1573229326	319964836	How to Be Good	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Very good take on NIMBY liberals	This book is a very good take on NIMBY (Not In My Back Yard) liberals- they believe that asylum seekers should be let in, just not to my street. Sure we want to do something about the homeless - just make them go away.<br />The narrator in this story is in an unhappy marriage. Her husband is not very nice to her, but is that really grounds for a divorce? She seems to pride herself on what a good person she is - she is a doctor after all, and has to deal with boils and other icky things. Yet she does things that good people are not meant to do - like have affairs. Of course she can justify this - if only her husband was not so angry, if only he was good...<br />This is very much a 'be careful what you wish for' story - her husband very much becomes less angry and more good. Exactly what she wanted. Only she can't stand his new incarnation either. <br />The funniest bits of the book for me was the narrator having to re-examine herself, and modern day peer pressure. There is a scence where her husband empties out her purse and gives her money to a beggar. She is angry with him, yet realises that to the public watching, berating your husband for giving money to a homeless person makes you look very bad. There is also the scenes where her husband and DJ Goodnews (the apparant bringer of her husband's new found goodness) pursuade people to take the homeless into their spare rooms, and can't understand when things don't go according to plan.<br />How much of many liberal's attitudes are really just talking the talk, but not walking the walk? How much is just saying the right thing to sound like a good person, yet not something you would be able to put into practice? I think that this is what Hornby is asking, and doing a very good job of making us think.	2002-07-01
US	50740272	R1M5BVBNZ3YW4T	0679776818	168251186	Birdsong: A Novel of Love and War	Books	2	7	11	N	N	What did the reviewers read?? Not the same book as me	I bought this book because i had just returned from a tour of the battlefields of Belgium and northern France with my husband, who is an Army Engineer. I have to say that the batlle scenes in this book are decently written, and while nothing can ever really give a truly accurate picture of what those men had to go through, at least Faulks gives it a passable go.<br />But i am sorry, that is the only good thing about this book. My copy was covered with reviewer's glowing praise. One said it was 'an erotic love story'. Hello?? Just because the two characters engaged in the central love story did 'it' in something other than the missionary position, it does not automatically qualify as 'erotic'. I found the whole affair badly written, unbelievable, and thought that it gave nothing to the story. What was the point?<br />Secondly, what was the point of including the story based on Wraysford's (the central character)gradndaughter? I felt that it gave no insight into either the WWI sections, or the personalities involved.<br />I think that this book had a lot going for it, but the good bits just got lost in the attempt to package it as something other that a WWI battlefield tale. And i think that there are some reviewers/literary critics out there that obviously don't get to read much good fiction!	2002-07-01
US	50740272	R10JCS4KBQXXDQ	0375724400	388721998	When We Were Orphans: A Novel	Books	3	7	9	N	N	From the sublime to the ridiculous	I had really looked forward to reading this book - many people had recommended it to me, and the premise of the story was an interesting one.<br />This story is a first-person narrative about a detective who returns to Shanghai to find his missing parents. He becomes caught up in the Japanese occupation, to the point that he is involved in actual battles, travelling through destroyed streets with a man he believes to be his childhood friend. The impression i get is that Ishiguro is trying to portray a man losing his grip on reality - the story becomes bizarre about 1/2 - 3/4 of the way through. However, part of me thinks that maybe it is just bizarre. Full stop. <br />I enjoyed the beginning of this book, and i quite like Ishiguro's style. However, i just feel that he literally loses the plot. Which is a shame, as this could have been quite a good book, as opposed to a potentially good book.	2002-07-01
US	50740272	R1YM0VI5S2PCDG	0767903862	430278994	In a Sunburned Country	Books	3	4	7	N	N	An Australian perspective	I have to admit at the outset, i am not a Bill Bryson fan (which i believe puts me in a minority). There is something about his writing that rubs me up the wrong way. And i put off reading this book for a long time, as i had heard many Australians say it was just not very good.<br />I am therefore happily surprised to say it is not that bad. It is always interesting to see what an outsider thinks of your home country, and i would say that this is a good insight into others' opinions of Australia if not Australia itself. I have recently embarked on travelling through the UK and Europe, and have been trying to find a book to recommend to others that gives a non-cliched view of Australia, and Bryson's is one of the few i would recommend, with caveats (it is full of cliches, but less than many).<br />For those who have read the book - Bryson obviously is not very good at exploring cities though - i would say that Canberra has some excellent bars and some bloody good restaurants. It's not Sydney, but it is not nearly as dire as he makes out.There are lots of little mistakes too, that on their own are not much, but added up make you wonder at times. The most annoying thing is that he never seems to ask anybody - again Canberra is a good example. The city that probably has the largest population of journalists, military members, politicians and civil servants in the country - and he can't find a decent bar?? Maybe he should have asked a local. There are other times in the book when i wish he had asked someone for advice or something.<br />For those that are considering reading the book - go ahead. Just remember, travel writers are all biased. They all have their own interests, they all have their own angle. That is just how it is. Bryson's Australia is a humourous one, but perhaps not the only one. My suggestion would be to get to Australia and see it for yourself!	2002-06-26
US	50740272	RQNWXKO6P8L9D	0816132836	906208168	Smileys People	Books	3	0	4	N	N	An invovled yet ultimately sparse tale	This is your typical cold-war era spy tale, set across the panorama of Europe with the English good-guys out to get the Soviet bad guys.<br />The Smiley in question is a semi-retired spy mastered called back into the fold to solve the killing of a Russian emigre that he once 'ran' for the Circus, part of the vast English spy system. What he finds leads him on an obsessive hunt for clues throughout Europe, consorting with your typical spy novel characters, and culminating in the chance to turn his nemisis, the Soviet Karla, to the English side.<br />Like other Le Carre novels, this is an amazingly involved read, with plots, sub-plots and counter-plots that Le Carre manages to keep together. The story is ablaze with characters. Yet....reading the story I did not really care what happened. And as in the other Le Carre spy novel I have read - &quot;The Little Drummer Girl&quot; - I felt that some of the twists were just a little too contrived (main example - Alexandra in the asylum. If you read it you will know what I mean) and that the main characters are on the whole unlikeable. Which is a bit annoying, considering that Le Carre obviously put so much (good) work into his novels, and there is so much good about them. There is just too much not-so-good in them as well.	2001-12-23
US	50740272	R3R0XTEMD33ZEJ	0060934913	24249899	Kitchen Confidential: Adventures in the Culinary Underbelly	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Been there, done that - it's all true!	As someone who has worked front-of-house in various establishments, i have encountered my fair share of chefs, from the humble drones to those who think they are higher than God. I have to say, that based on my experience, Bourdain's writing rings true. <br />His writing is a little over the top, a bit 'put-on' hyper-kinetic in places. But he expresses the vibe of a kitchen on a Friday night perfectly - it IS over the top and hyper-kinetic. Bourdain comes across as the kind of guy you would love to have a drink with but hate to work under - typical of most chefs.<br />Best of all, his writing rings true - he is not afraid to list his failures, not afraid to admit when he is wrong (his chapter on Scott Bryan, his opposite in the world of chefdom, is a whole essay on 'forget what I said previously') but also not full of false modesty - he gives himself credit where it is due. <br />Some people may read this book and think it is a revelation - the whole don't order brunch, or fish on a Tuesday. I just saw it for a matter of fact collection of essays on what restaurants really are - not the food channel, not food porn, not Delia Smith Jamie Oliver paradises but charnel houses and sweat-shops - the types that when they are at their worst make you cry, and at their best make you feel that you are working in the grooviest place in town.	2001-12-23
US	50740272	R2O2R4GAASUUKK	0020322208	845900804	The Art of Eating	Books	5	14	15	N	N	A gastronomical tour de force	This book is not a cookbook (though it does contain some great recipes). And it isn't really just a memoir. Rather, it is 5 books by one of the greatest writers about food collected in one volume. Whether you choose to read the essays over a period of time, or stuff yourself silly by reading as much as possible in one go, if you are the type who loves to read about food, you are in for a treat.<br />Fisher covers great meals she has had and great meals she plans to have; she covers cooking from the highly expensive levels of decadence to true home economy (yes, you can live off sludge); she explores eating both as a social pastime and as an intimate, individual pleasure.<br />If like me some of your favourite books have earned that title due to the authors ability to write about the meals it contains, you are sure to salviate at this tome. A wonderful read for all foodies...	2001-12-21
US	50740272	R1BIFPN232HTDX	0060188731	546555129	Bel Canto: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Captivity lead to love	If you are interested in this book you are probably already aware of the plot - group of people taken hostage in a South American country after they come together for a dinner and performance by an American soprano. In the hands of many other writers, this could have been written (badly) as a hostage drama/action/thriller. Luckily, it was written by Pratchett, and instead is a wonderful exploration of the human condition. While it is billed as a romance (and there is some romance in it) what I thought it most focused on was how people are formed by their surroundings. All of the characters in the book are taken out of their familiar surroundings and this changes them - among the examples is the vice-president who becomes the concierge/maitre de of his own home which is being used as a prison for the hostages; beautiful Carmen, who outside the jungle living in luxury has a chance to develop her keen intelligence; Kato, the vice-president to the guest of honour at the dinner - known only for his business position and ability with numbers, he is revealed as a professional-level pianist, which soon elevates him to a position of importance.<BR>While this is not quite 'literary fiction', it is not a pulpy read either. It is an easy read, and all the better for it. I think this would be perfect holiday reading for anyone who is looking for an interesting diversion that has a fascinating situation and characters that you can really care for.<BR>I have not read Ann Patchett before, but on the basis of this book I will be looking for her work in the future.	2001-12-16
US	50740272	R147G421EGW1HS	0679737898	248860003	Parliament of Whores: A Lone Humorist Attempts to Explain the Entire U.S. Government	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Political satire at its best	Even though this book was written over ten years ago, it is still an up-to-date indictment of the American way of doing government, with lessons for those both in the USA and those of us who live in other (though similar) systems. What i thought summed up the brilliance of O'Rourke is that i would read sections that i didn't agree with, but could still not help myself from laughing out loud. And it is dispiriting yet insightful to read about his views on Afghanistan a decade ago, and how so little has changed!<BR>I have loved everything that i have read so far that has been written by O'Rourke, and i am guessing that he is a love-it or hate-it style for most. But if you are in the love-it camp, you are in for a treat. As usual, his satire and wit has managed to combine insight with humour - a bloody good read for all.	2001-12-11
US	50740272	RY6GVJLPR2OIO	0312203764	933652437	The Language of Threads: A Novel	Books	4	11	14	N	N	This sequel is an improvement!	Firstly, a quick note to some other reviewers - if you are going to give away part of the plot in your review, warn the reader first - some of us look at the review *before* we read the book, and want to find out for ourselves what is going to happen, not have it told to us beforehand.<br />Okay, rant over. The Language of Threads is the sequel to Tsukiyama's successful first novel 'Women of the Silk'. It tells the story of Pei, who travels with the orphan Ji Shen to Hong Kong. She has to start her life anew, whilst living through the Japanese occupation. This is a story set in a fascinating time and place, with some interesting characters.<br />I think that this book is an improvement over its predecessor. The writing is much less laboured, and the dialogue flows a little better. The characters are fleshed out a little more, and we understand their motivations better. The book refers often to events and actions in the preceding book - I think you would really have to have read 'Women of the Silk' to know what is being talked about some of the time. <br />This is not the best novel i have read set in this time or place, but stacked up against her previous effort, it looks okay. Tsukiyama is obviously finding herself as a writer the more she does it, and if i come across another of her novels in the future i will probably read it.	2001-12-06
US	50740272	RE5XBKYW2M9SJ	0312099436	900086516	Women of the Silk: A Novel	Books	3	13	16	N	N	...	Women of the Silk tells the story of Pei, who as a young girl is given over to the silk factories to earn money for her family. Pei lives with her 'sisters', other silk workers, and forms particulary strong bonds with some of them, especially Lin, a girl from a rich Canton background. The book is set in the period leading up to the Japanese invasion, and looks at peasant and industrial life in early 20th century China<br />This is the kind of book i usually enjoy - it is set in a period that interests me, and the idea is intriguing - young girl growing up in all female environment in a male dominated world. BUT - the writing is simply not competent. The prose is wooden and lacklustre - there is nothing 'lyrical' or 'poetic' here as far as i can see, which is contrary to the claim of other reviewers. The dialogue is simply unbelievalbe - no-one speaks in such cliche-ridden, stilted ways! I also disliked the way there was little continuity in time - the author skips from one year to two later with little flow.<br />I think this is the kind of book that you either love or strongly dislike after the first chapter, and you stick with your opinion to the end.<br />(I have started the sequel to this book, 'The Language of Threads' and i actually think it is much better!)	2001-12-06
US	50740272	R1FW2I7V3EHXAF	0140166548	285163435	A History of Reading	Books	5	7	7	N	N	You are sure to learn something	Manguel has done a wonderful job of capturing the many fascinating aspects of reading from the neurological (just what is reading, what our eyes and brains do), to the evolution of reading out loud to `silent' reading, to the history of some of the great collections of the world, and much, much more. This really is a great book, that I would recommend to anyone who loves to read, as you are sure to find something of interested, and undoubtedly something you did not know previously. The title is a *little* misleading, in that it is not a straight chronological historical study.  My only quibble would be that the approach at times can be a little too scatter-gun, but perhaps that is part of the charm - it is like a fascinating rambling conversation about every bibliophiles favourite topic.	2001-12-04
US	50740272	R2SITVIOMNUHTM	0140434895	365726027	Great Expectations (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Not just a great classic, it's a rollicking good read	There is really no need to recount the plot of this classic - I think most people who are thinking about reading it already know it is a story of poor boy done good and has wrong assumptions about how he comes about it. But despite the storyline being well-worn, there is till so much to get from this story. What comes across most clearly is the theme that nothing comes without strings-attached - Pip's great fortune, that at first looked like manna from on high, turns out to cause more trouble than it is worth.<br />Dickens is a joy to read - his description is masterful, and his ability to paint pictures of his eccentric characters is unsurpassed - the contrasts between the charming Mr Wemmick and the slimy Mr Jaggers; the amazing Miss Havisham; the self important Pumblechook (who I could not stand! Is there any character in literature so annoyingly self-deluded?). My absolute favourite is Joe - his convoluted ways of attempting to pass information onto Pip, his attempts to spare Pip from his evil sister and his localised venacular. The only disappointing characters are the two main ones - Pip comes across as insipid, uninspiring,  and frankly undeserving of the fortune that he falls into. Estella is so sketchily drawn that you never get any feel for her, and I think that given how much complexity Dickens manages for some of the minor characters, he could have afforded more to Estella.<br />However, this is a great read. Don't read it just because you fell you `have to read a classic' - read it because it is a well written story with the right balance of humour and pathos.	2001-12-04
US	50740272	R2KOJ47BTO7KVY	0312252137	165562895	Savage: The Life and Times of Jemmy Button	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Tierra del Fuego	This book is billed as a story  about Jemmy Button, but Jemmy is only a starting point for this fascinating tale exploring what civilisation is, how good intentions can do wrong, and cultural misunderstanding.<br />Jemmy Button came from Tierra del Fuego, the land at the very south of South America. Along with 3 others from this area, he was taken away from his primitive existence (and you can be as PC as you like - it was primitive) to England. The reasoning behind this was if Jemmy and his compatriots could be taught English and `Civilisation' he would be able to go home and teach others the benefits of good living. Well of course, it didn't quite work out that way. Jemmy and some of his compatriots were returned home (one died in England), but they were not forgotten.<br />As time progressed, missionaries entered the picture. Their belief was that if they could track Jemmy down, they could use him as an interpreter and go-between to help convert the Tierra del Fuegian barbarians, and bring them to the life of Christ (and make them wear clothes - this was important to missionaries). The majority of the book is taken up with the story of the various attempts of missionaries, all of them misguided and ultimately doomed to fail. As with many a story about indigenous communities, this one ends with genocide brought about by a combination of accident (introduced disease, alcohol) and intent (settlers would go out and shoot the `vermin' that stole their sheep).<br />While well researched and full of detail, I thought this was a rather dry account of this period of English colonialism. However, it is an important one that has yet to receive the exposure it deserves. Students of colonialism or the demise of indigenous cultures (and some would argue they are each the same) should definitely find a copy of this book and read it.	2001-11-26
US	50740272	RVBUZ035ZQHJE	0679737413	116556671	At Play in the Fields of the Lord	Books	4	89	94	N	N	So much to offer	This novel is the story about the impact of outsiders on a tribe of Indians in the Amazon. Essentially two facets of the outsiders (read Western Civilisation) that are explored  the sacred in the form of missionaries, and the profane in the guise of mercenaries. Their stories told in alternating chapters, Lewis Moon and Martin Quarrier both have a purpose in mind  - both feel that they can save the locals that are yet to come in full contact with Western Civilisation. Moon is part Native American, and at the beginning of our story he is a mercenary hired to kill the Indians. On a drug induced flight, he crashes into the jungle and ingratiates himself into the wild Indian tribe. His relationship with the tribe is really an extension of his life so far  he doesnt quite fit in, no matter what he does. Quarrier is an evangelical missionary who has travelled with his wife and child to bring the word of God to Indians. Very early on, however, Quarrier has doubts about his own suitability, and then the broad-spectrum suitability of anyone using trickery to force a belief on the Indians. This brings him into conflict with his co-missionary, who is a stereotype of all that is wrong in the missionary movement  this character is a man more interested in his own personal reputation and the number of souls he has saved (or it looks like he has saved) than genuine results.<br />This is a well written exploration of missionaries and misfits on the edges of civilisation. We have comparisons of Catholics and Evangelicals; comparisons between missionaries who are there for the greater glory of God (or the idea of God at least) and for the greater glory of their own name; and the attempts by different outsiders to save a tribe from other outsiders, with more concerns for their own agendas than the welfare of those they are trying to save. Oh, and there is some amazingly insightful writing about interpersonal relationships to boot.<br />What I liked best about this book was that Matthiessen spared nobody  unlike some novels of this genre, the Indians are not simple noble savages  some are cleverer than others; the Indians arent all environmentally friendly, in-tune with nature good-guys (Moon takes them for task for their wasteful practices, but they dont care)and Matthiessen takes the time to explain the motivations of his characters, something that can be sorely lacking in some novels.<br />I would recommend this book to anyone who likes a good novel. For those with an interest in the specific topic area (the Amazon, 'Western' culture meets 'natives', missionaries) there is a lot here (if you liked Poisonwood Bible, i you would probably like this). But even if this is not an area you would naturally gravitate to, i would recommend it on the basis of Matthiessen's great writing alone.One point - the first 4 -6 chapters can be hard going, but stick with it - things pick up. It was for these first chapters that i docked a star (would have given it 4.5 stars if possible).	2001-11-26
US	50740272	R39YDW8XG6P0BK	0671042785	158451152	The Little Drummer Girl	Books	2	8	18	N	N	A disappointment	This book is a complex exploration of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, that manages to look at both sides of the story. While nominally based in an Israeli viewpoint, I think that Le Carre makes the Palestinians (at least those not directly bombing people) the more sympathetic of the two. That said, the story is a little dated, but was probably right on the line when it was written.<br />Israeli agent Kurtz is determined to catch the Palestinian mastermind behind a dedicated bombing campaign that is claiming Jewish targets throughout the world. To do this, he calls in a sometime operative called Becker, who is to recruit an English actress, Charlie (still with me?) Through an intricate web of deception and fabrication Charlie 'becomes' the girlfriend of Michel, the brother of the man they are attempting to catch. Charlie must live in a delicately balanced world of the real and unreal if she is to complete her task alive.<br />Warning - this paragraph has spoilers. <BR>Le Carre starts off with a fantastic premise, and he does manage to keep an amazingly labyrinthine plot together. Some sections, such as the descriptions of the Palestinian refugee camps, are believably and sympathetically written. But there are also some major flaws - the main one being the romance between Charlie and Becker (or Joseph as she calls him). Why did Le Carre throw this in?? It is totally unbelievable and unnecessary. Actually, the whole character of Charlie just doesn't ring true - or perhaps it is just that she is such a brat that you end up spending the book being annoyed with her rather than admiring her. <br />I am going to give Le Carre another chance, but sadly this book was a disappointment.	2001-11-21
US	50740272	R3QOELJ2PXI1D2	0743422910	769417678	The Constant Gardener	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Big pharma in Africa	This is a book that begins with a tragic death, and ends with a tragic death, with a lot of thought provoking action between. The basis of the novel is the deeds of pharmaceutical companies working in Africa. The companies in question use Africans as their human guinea pigs for drug trials, not caring if the results mean death. The wife of a staff member of the British Embassy has come across the dealings with of said companies, and hers is the death at the beginning of the novel. Her husband, oh-so-British Justin, resolves to continue her investigations. His search takes him from Africa to Europe, Canada, and back to Africa.<br />There is a lot in this story. While the narrative is gripping, it is the issues that the story raises I found most interesting. Le Carre brings into question the actions of big pharmaceutical companies, and their ability to influence the actions of researchers, governments and big business. Good reading while bringing an important issue to light - well worth the effort.	2001-11-13
US	50740272	R3ATG7OI9JZKJV	0449910857	97513865	The Pillars of Hercules: A Grand Tour of the Mediterranean	Books	4	6	10	N	N	You can't help but be jealous, can you	Oh, to be Paul Theroux - get an idea about where you want to travel and know that a publisher will pay you for whatever you write about your trip. Or something like that. The Pillars of Hercules tells a travel tale about the area on Earth that has probably generated the most travel writing in history - the Mediterranean. That said, Mr. Theroux comes at it from an original angle - the historical monuments and great past of the area that usually dominates writing about the Med,  he only mentions in passing. What he is interested in is the people - and not just the famous; he annoys the people around him, asking their opinions about their travels and homes. What results is a fantastic travelogue that encompasses many different travel experiences - Theroux goes from a $1,000-a-day cruise (that he didn't pay for) to a cheap (for him) boat load of Turkish holiday goers within a short period of time, and manages to make the Turkish boat sound as interesting as the ritzy cruise ship. <br />This is not a travel guide. Nor is it an in-depth look at Mediterranean history or culture - there are plenty of other books out there to choose form if that is what you are looking for. In his own words, Theroux describes his travels as: \\"I had set out to be on the Mediterranean, without a fixed program. I was not writing a book - I was living my life, and had found an agreeable way to do it.\\" I am glad that Theroux decided to share his travels with us, because it makes for an entertaining and interesting read, as well as a view of the area different from most you will find on bookshelves today.	2001-11-06
US	50740272	R25X389UAFFV6H	0151006725	216165989	Slammerkin: A Loose Dress, A Loose Woman	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A loose dress, a loose woman	This book operates on two levels. On the one hand, it is the story of Mary, a girl who sells her virginity for (literally) a little colour in her life, and how that action leads her to a life of a streetwalker, something that she can not escape no matter how hard she tries. This story in itself is an interesting read, with its fabulous description of the seedy side of life in London of the 1760s, especially Donoghue's description of clothing. (For the record, a Slammerkin is a type of dress that was favoured by prostitutes, which came to be a slang word for the profession). If youa re looking for some great historical fiction, with a good balance between historical detail, plot, and character development, you should try this novel.<br />On another level, this is a story that explores the idea of how much of our lives is made up by your own decisions, and how much is fate? It also works with the premise of how one bad decision can effect the whole direction of our lives. Mary's losing of her virginity sets of a chain of events that Mary only seems to be half in control of. She realises that a woman (or in her case a girl - she is only 14) in her world has not much choice, especially if she is pregnant and disowned by her family. Even when she attempts to redeem herself, she is driven by her desperation and lack of other choices to make another decision that will continue to affect her life long after that one night. <br />We have all made bad decisions in our past. If we are lucky, we move on and don't have to worry about them. If we are like Mary, they will continue to haunt us. Once you have read Slammerkin, you may be wondering if any of your past actions are going to come back to haunt you tomorrow.	2001-11-06
US	50740272	R3U2EU1RQM6LR9	0060929383	490087791	More Tales of the City	Books	4	18	18	N	N	More tales, more tears, more love, more fun	Why is it that we admirers of the Tales of the City series enjoy it so much? Part of it is the fact that it is a combination of gossip and a good television series, all in a neat little package. Part of it is Maupin's great writing, which manages to capture the action and the spirit in a friendly, admiring style. Part of it is the motley crew of characters. But I think that the largest factor is jealousy - you read these stories and wish that you could live at Barbary Lane, and spend afternoons talking to Mrs. Madrigal, or tossing about campy bon mots with Michael. <br />This book is number two in a six part series about a house on Barbary Lane in San Francisco in the late 1970s and its inhabitants. Gay and straight, messed up and on the right track, Maupin's book is based on a regular (fictional) newspaper column that he wrote. And the book feels like you are getting regular episodes in the life of a group of people that you don't know personally, but you are interested in their lives anyway. You care about Mary Ann and her quest to the answer to her amnesiac lover's past. You want things to work out between Michael and the gynecologist Jon. You identify with Mona's surprise when she discovers her past during a chance visit to a desert whorehouse. You hope everything works out for DeDe and her twins-to-be.  And as fantastic as these themes sound, they all become reasonable in Maupin's book. (Okay, so the parts concerning the amnesiac were a little bit far fetched, but nothing a reader can't cope with).  I can almost guarantee that if you have not previously read the Tales of the City series before you read this book, you will be searching the shelves for the rest when you are finished.	2001-11-06
US	50740272	RQ6R64FHAKOLS	0345342968	383457570	Fahrenheit 451	Books	2	6	11	N	N	Sadly a disappointment	Perhaps it is dated. Perhaps it was just built up too much. But this is yet another book that came highly recommended, both by other 'day-to-day' readers and critics alike, that i just could not enjoy.<br />Bradbury's tale of a world where books is banned has a powerful and interesting premise. But it does not seem to follow through for me. Which is a shame - here is a book that is about the importance of books in our lives, but it is so boring that rather than 'get something' out of it, you just come away thinking how boring it is.<br />Or at least i did.	2001-11-01
US	50740272	RB7B9PW8ZTSZT	0449911888	470782123	Damage	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Erotic yet painful, spare yet lush	I am always wary of telling people that this is one of my favourite books due to the nature of its story - a man who falls in lust with his son's fiancee, with horrifying results. And i am not sure that it is the story i like. Rather, it is Hart's beautiful prose. <BR>The writing here is so economic, yet wonderfully descriptive - the small room that becomes the lovers tryst-loft, and the diary  with a ribbon that marks when they will next meet is covered is simple yet evocotive prose. The opening page (of my copy anyway) would have to be some of the best paragraphs of prose in the English language. I would recommend the book for this page alone.This book reminds me of a lot of some French Erotic literature (i.e. The Story of O) more than any British writer. <BR>This is a short book, so if you read it and don't like it you won't have wasted too much of your time on something you didn't like. But if you are like me, and can sometimes appreciate a book as much for how it is saying something as for what it is saying, i believe that Damage will have something for you. Either way, it is sure to touch you, by stirring some hidden corner of your soul, whether that is a corner you wanted to know or not.	2001-11-01
US	50740272	R2549WCH3SM5QI	0679745203	152918541	The English Patient	Books	5	2	2	N	N	This is a story about love above all	While the English Patient explores a panoramic story line -  covering the deserts and bazaars, the ravages of World War II on  two continents, the languid days and haunted nights -  the real depth of this story are the love stories. The enigmatic Hungarian aristocrat Almasy and his immorata Katherine, a married English Ice Queen; the fragile and damaged nurse Hana and the shy reserved Indian army engineer Kip; Caravaggio the damaged thief and his love for women in general. Their tokens of affection, their whispered tributes, what they are willing to do and willing to forgo for their love - this is the true beauty of this book. This is a romance, but a grown up, beautiful romance that is delivered with some of the most haunting and evocative style in modern literature. If you are looking for story about love that avoids the graphic and the self-indulgent, the vulgar and the tacky, and instead inspires you with romance in the tradition of Tristan and Isolde alongside the pleasure of everyday treasures, please read this book, it is pure rapture.	2001-11-01
US	50740272	R35TDZ5M70F5KY	2906571520	325164184	The Pillow Book	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A work of art about a work of art, based on art	This is a hard book to review on its own for me, as it is the book of one of my most favourite movies, of the same name.<br />Peter Greenaway set out to make a movie very loosely based on the Pillow Book of Sei Shonagon, a court lady of the Heian period of Japan. This book contains the script of the movie, along with pictures. But it is more than a movie script, it stands alone as a work of art. It is, for me, an exploration of the beauty of the written word, for both what it represents (the story told by the word)and the sheer beauty/art of the words (the calligraphy).<br />It is hard to write about this book (and movie) without sounding like a pretencious tosser! But believe me, if you love art, beauty, the orient, or Ewan McGregor (there are a lot of you out there)you are sure to appreciate something from, if not all of,the Pillow Book.	2001-11-01
US	50740272	R2F1QOHHG7GYDS	0486200701	256232040	The Book of Tea	Books	5	16	17	N	N	So much more than tea	On the surface, this is a book about history - the history of tea, and art, and religion. But this is really a book about so much more - it compares the culture and way of thinking of the East and West, the past and the present. It makes the reader think about and reassess what is important in life, what is really beautiful, what is worth keeping or fighting for. What is dignity. <br />This essay, which wends its way between the discovery of tea, flower arranging, architecture and Taoism along with other enticing subjects,  is truly an enlightening and thrilling book, in a quiet and gentle way (is that possible?) Whether you are interested in East Asian culture, Tea, or would just like a compass to help you re-orientate your priorities, you will probably gain something from this ode to the importance and influence of Tea.	2001-11-01
US	50740272	R1ZX1OG1N3MFOY	1573228583	407492360	Speaking with the Angel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Great short story collection	This is a book of short stories by some of England's `hip' new writers - Nick Hornby, Robert Harris, Melissa Banks, Patrick Marber, Colin Firth (yes, the actor), Zadie Smith, Dave Eggers, Roddy Doyle, Helen Fielding, Irvine Welsh and John O'Farrell. With any collection, there are invariably some better than others, and I was disappointed in places - I was looking forward to a lot more from Zadie Smith for example.<br />But there are some brilliant stories in here - `Nipple Jesus' by Hornby is the story of a bouncer who is now guarding a controversial piece of art and discovering a lot about appreciation and the modern art world; `Last Requests' by Giles Smith, the tale told by a woman who cooks the final meal for death row inmates; `Slave' by Roddy Doyle, which is about a man dealing with his very normal mid-life crisis, brought on by a dead rat. There is some full-on language, so if you don't like swearing, you might have problems with most of the stories in this book. And as usual, Irvine Welsh writes phonetic Scottish, though it is not a strong as `Trainspotting'. (I didn't find either of these factors a problem, but I realise there may be some readers who do.) My favourite story is the last in the collection, John O'Farrell's \\"Walking into the Wind' about a mime artist that needs to get a grip on reality. Go out and buy a copy, and decide for yourself.	2001-10-30
US	50740272	R1FR5LOGU3ETV8	1568951728	993627087	Good Bones and Simple Murders	Books	4	9	9	N	N	This review is for Good Bones only	This is an eclectic collection of short pieces (a little too short and non-narrative to be called short stories) on topics such as Chicken Little, the importance of dumb women in literature, Hamlet from Gertrude's perspectives, war, death, birth and more. There is no doubting, reading this, that Atwood has a feminist bent, but don't let that you scare you off - it is definitely not a ram-down-your-throat version of feminism. Rather, it is a funny, smart and insightful perspective.<br />I would not recommend this as an introduction to Atwood - a first time reader would probably be better suited to reading one of her novels such as The Blind Assassin or The Handmaid's Tale first. But I think that for readers that have encountered Atwood before, this collection will give you an insight into a fascinating and wryly humourous writer.	2001-10-30
US	50740272	R2MW45VM06098G	0679749519	741639462	Remembering Babylon: A Novel	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Sparse, but still rewarding	Remembering Babylon is the story of Gemmy - washed up on the Australian coast as a boy after a life of harshness that is hard to imagine, he is taken in by group of Aborigines. Sixteen years later, he makes himself known to the white community of northern Queensland, where he causes the community to examine not only it's attitude towards what is `civilised', but also causes them to look inwards upon themselves.<br />This is a story about frontiers - the physical frontier of the small community that Gemmy joins; the frontier of the new state of Queensland; and the frontier between civilised and primitive.  There is some beautiful work in this book, especially in its examination of small community dynamics, and coming of age. But I feel that Malouf starts threads that he doesn't bother to finish - the ambiguous characters of Mrs. Hutchence and Leona are introduced with promises of an exotic past, yet we never get to know them. George the school teacher is developed, only to be left out of the second half of the story. While Malouf manages to pack a lot of punch into a short tale, I feel that perhaps just a little be of expansion would have made this an even better book. But I will admit that I got a kick out of reading a story set in my home state of Queensland - it is nice to see that there is some Australian historical fiction set somewhere other than the Southern States!	2001-10-30
US	50740272	R1MGA3OA06ECCY	0312187688	27139926	Used and Rare: Travels in the Book World	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Don't worry, others share your madness	Used and Rare is the story of a decent in to a wonderful form of madness - the madness of book collecting. After a birthday agreement over the cost of presents drives the wife of this partnership to buy a used book, the Goldstones are slowly drawn into the world of book collecting, learning about modern-firsts, foxing and binding.<BR>This is not a book on how to. Rather, it is the story of people buying books for the love of owning books, rather than as investments or to make money. Many readers and collectors out there will identify with the Goldstones, and their disappointment with the world of bookdealing for money.<br />I have only two points of issue with this book (and it shows what a great book it is when the two points i have are so minor)<BR>1. The written speech of the New Zealand - once was funny, after that it gets annoying (anyone who has read the book will know what i am talking about). Actually, i found it a bit patronising, but that is just me.<BR>2.  Whole monologues are 'repeated' in the book, and i find it amazing that the Goldstones could remember large passages of what people said, supposedly verbatim, years later. <BR>But really, these are only minor quibbles. This is a fantastic book. I have two copies - one for myself, and one the in-laws are getting for Xmas. They are *almost* serious book collectors, and i think they will identify with much in this book. Have a read and see if you do too.	2001-10-22
US	50740272	R2JRBKWWK3FREG	0671510053	357229344	The Shipping News	Books	4	7	8	N	N	An ode to the small communities	The Shipping News will soon be coming out as a movie, starring Cate Blanchett, so I suppose you could just wait until then and find everything out from watching the movie version. But if you did, you would miss out on an enchanting read, and one that one the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction in 1994 along with The Irish Times International Prize and others.<br />This novel is the story of Quoyle, who along with his two young daughters, Bunny and Sunshine, travels to Newfoundland after the death of his awful wife. Quoyle settles in his ancestral home along with his Aunt Agnis, and begins work on the local paper, the Gammy Bird. Through Quoyle's interaction with the people he meets, we come to know the intricacies of the local community - the personalities, the history, the foibles. This book is really a paean to small communities, and you come to understand the attraction that living in a small, remote town has for some people. I was sorry when this book ended that I would no longer be sharing the lives and times of Quoyle, Wavey, Aunt Agnis and the rest of the readers of the Gammy Bird.	2001-10-22
US	50740272	RWQVBTCF0UQ0C	0385260938	548715144	The Three Pillars of Zen, 25th Anniversary Updated and Revised Edition	Books	4	3	5	N	N	I wish that this had touched me more	The first of Kapleau's books i read was 'Awakening to Zen', which i found touched me a lot more than this book, and i was a little disapointed with this read, as i had hoped for a lot from it. That said, this is still an excellent reference for those interested in Zen, with the discussion of koans especially good. I found that some of the talk about makkyo (sp?) and certain schools of zen a bit exclusive of other areas of zen, but we have to remember that this is written from Kapleau's experience and perspective, and take it for what it is.	2001-10-22
US	50740272	R33605AP3K2R1I	0060193611	112419171	The Map That Changed the World: William Smith and the Birth of Modern Geology	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Do you like rocks??	more in common with another recent best-seller of the literary non-fiction genre - Dava Sobel's `Longitude'. Both books tell the story of an Englishman beset by hindrances and misunderstanding on their quest to unlocking the secrets of Natural Science. Winchester's book is about William Smith, a man who created the first geological map of England, and ostensibly the first geological map ever. <br />Smith's story is one of hardships - orphaned early, without a formal education, Smith managed to achieve his goal even though he married a `madwoman', was overlooked by the upper-classes and was forever worrying about money. These aspects of the story are quite interesting. But Winchester includes a lot of information about the geology of England, which in places gets a bit tedious for a reader that is not all that interested in rocks. Another annoying thing with this book is the use of asterisks - Winchester puts a lot of his information in footnotes at the bottom of the page, which is okay when used sparingly, but there are sections when 3 pages in every 4 use this!<br />That said, this book is worth plugging through to see what happens at the end. And perhaps some readers will find the sections on geology fascinating. But this book is not really as good as the two mentioned in the first paragraph. If you are a fan of Winchester, or of English history, you will enjoy this book. Otherwise I would suggest that you look elsewhere.	2001-10-17
US	50740272	R222UT9E2JD6PD	0375753206	12564777	The Age of Innocence (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A sumptuous New York of a bygone age	This is a story set in the stifling atmosphere of upper-class turn of the century New York, where everyone does what they think others expect of them, and are more worried about appearances and `tradition' (though really, the city is till so young the traditions are relatively new) than what is right or good.<br />Newland Archer is engaged to marry May Welland, a young woman from the same social strata as himself. He then meets May's cousin Ellen Olenska, and falls in love, which is a major problem - not only is Newland expected to marry May, but Ellen is a married woman, who did the wrong thing and left her rich European husband. The story explores the attempts by Newland to break out from the expectation of society to be with the woman he loves, and how society and his own beliefs keep him reined in.<br />This story is a joy to read, not only for its narrative, but also because of Wharton's lush descriptions of the locations and rituals of New York life - she can make you feel that you know a house inside and out just by the way she writes about it. This book reminded me a lot of Anna Karenina - the same stifling societal rules that kept people from doing what they wanted in life, the same sumptuous settings. Only Age of Innocence is a lot shorter, and I have to say a lot more readable!	2001-10-16
US	50740272	R2MSHG9OEGQBBT	0670894788	289712823	Anna Karenina	Books	4	1	6	N	N	Long, but ultimately rewarding	This novel is the story of not only Anna Karenina, and how one decision has such a disastrous impact on her life; it is the inter-twining stories of her relatives and friends living in the glass-house environment of the Russian aristocracy. This is a story about relationships, and opinions, and it explores how the are  never clear-cut; and how opinions and feelings can and will change over time.<br />This is a story that can only be described as lush - so full of characters, description, plot and action! It is very easy to get annoyed with the characters - they are leading such pampered lives in their manors, holding balls, ordering around servants. The reader vacillates between feeling sorry for them, and wanting to slap them - don't they realise while they worry about their petty relationships or not being asked to dance the Mazurka there are lives so wretched they will bring about a revolution? As soon as you feel sorry for a character, they show how petty or stupid they are - landowners complaining that the peasants break new machinery because they find the new,  easier manner of doing work `boring' compared to back breaking labour; or the women getting jealous when their husbands are home five minutes late! Tolstoy does  attempt to explore the idea of privilege and obligation, but it is not the central focus of this story - the central focus is relationships and society.<br />The charm of Tolstoy is that he uses such universal themes of human lives that you can't help but identify, at least a little, with the characters. And the other great gift of Tolstoy's is one of descriptive writing - buildings, fields, balls and landscapes simple or magnificent, all are a joy to read. I only wish that I could read Russian, and enjoy this in the original rather than a translation! While it is inevitable that such a huge book will have boring passages, they were fewer than I had predicted, and I found skimming over them didn't adversely alter the story at all. The only other annoyance was that there was so much French in my translation - perhaps a French dictionary by your side would be a good idea! (The Russian aristocracy of the time spoke French as much, if not more, than they did Russian, so it is not that odd). Don't be put off by the size of this tome - there is sure to be much in it to interest all types of readers. Note: though I do think he should have stopped the book after Anna's death -the book loses steam after that, especially the chapters about Levin &amp; his `what is the point of living' thoughts. This lost it a star in my rating.r annoyance was that there was so much French in my translation - perhaps a French dictionary by your side would be a good idea! (The Russian aristocracy of the time spoke French as much, if not more, than they did Russian, so it is not that odd). Don't be put off by the size of this tome - there is sure to be much in it to interest all types of readers. Note: though I do think he should have stopped the book after Anna's death -the book loses steam after that, especially the chapters about Levin &amp; his `what is the point of living' thoughts. This lost it a star in my rating.	2001-10-12
US	50740272	R2Z6MPS43DBBCM	0385720955	850910906	The Blind Assassin: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A panorama of the personal	This novel is the life story of its narrator, Iris Griffen, nee Chase, and her sister Laura. Iris is now an old woman living alone. Laura died young, and was feted posthumously for her iconic (and only) book, `The Blind Assassin'. Iris tells her story both in the present and in the past, and it is interspersed with relevant newspaper clippings and extracts from Laura's book. It tells a story of two sisters who are very similar, yet so different - Iris does things because she thinks she is doing the right thing by others, Laura because it is just what she thinks is right.<br />It is hard not to feel sorry for Iris in this story (though she herself admits that she is anything but perfect) - from a young age she was tasked to look after Laura, who was `not quite with it'. She enters into a disastrous marriage to save the family fortune, and to the end of her life must suffer misunderstanding of her accomplishments by all those around her.<br />By the end of the book, nothing comes as a surprise, but because Atwood has set everything in motion so well it feels like a conclusion rather than a disappointment. The most interesting thing about this book is that it makes you question how much of the problems we face in life are due to our background - race, class or gender; and how much do we bring upon ourselves, willingly or otherwise?	2001-10-02
US	50740272	R3LXAZ6O4BK3I9	0141181737	282010593	Death in Venice and Other Tales	Books	1	5	41	N	N	Could not finish, it was so bad	I don't like writing a review of a book i have not finished. But i just *couldn't* finish Death in Venice, even though i tried twice. I found it to be badly written, and very boring! Perhaps i came to it with too much of a build-up - 'turning point of twentieth century literature' and all that. I found the exploration of the main character's minutest thought overdone, and the narrative seemed to be going nowhere.I didn't even bother with the other stories in the anthology on the basis of what i had alread put myself through<BR>Perhaps i missed something, but this was one of the most boring books i have ever attempted.	2001-09-20
US	50740272	R1HOTRQK9TECCJ	068480154X	655275342	Tender Is the Night	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Different than Gatsby, but as good	After finishing this book I was reminded of a beautiful grand house - if you take it in its entirety, you can't help but admire it. Within, there may be some rooms that leave something to be desired, but the overall effect is breathtaking. So it is with this book. Fitzgerald manages to write a story about a relationship that manages to be acerbicand tender at the same time.  Like the other traditional inheritor of the `Great American Novelist' title, Hemmingway. Fitzgerald combines a genius for writing wonderful character insights with great `background painting' - some of his descriptions of settings are truly masterpieces. Even the `extras' - they don't have anything to do with the story so it is hard to call them characters - get wonderfully drawn descriptions. I feel that this book truly captures its age and place. <br />And the added bonus - this is a wonderful insight into a relationship built on the worst of foundations slowly but surely heading to its end, told to us from various viewpoints. I don't know much about Fitzgerald's life, but if this is semi-autobiographical as literary critics say, you have to feel sorry for all that were involved in the real life events. Dick and Nicole are really caricatures of the Americans of their generation that lived the high life in Europe, and yet could never quite put their finger on what is was that they were actually meant to be doing.	2001-09-19
US	50740272	R2YPXFNYFAKDLA	0060929375	7018679	Pilgrim: A Novel	Books	3	5	9	N	N	Doesn't live up to potential	Pilgrim is the story of a man who can not die. After his latest suicide attempt, Pilgrim is brought to a sanatorium in Switzerland by his friend Sibyl Quatermaine, and comes under the care of Carl Jung.<br />Throughout the story we are given glimpses of Pilgrim's past lives - imagined or real; but the majority of the story is actually concerned with Pilgrim's incarceration and Carl Jung. This is the most disappointing aspect of the story - the tantalising glimpses of Leonardo da Vinci, Teresa of Avila, the Cathedral at Chartres - none of this is really developed. Rather, we have long passages on the turmoil in Jung's mind (which I found quite boring) and fragmentary insights into Pilgrim's thoughts. I kept waiting for the story of these past lives to be more fully developed, but nothing ever comes of it.<br />The other disappointment with this book is the main characters- you cannot sympathise with them. Jung comes across as a right prat, probably because he was in real life. Pilgrim is just too absent and intangible, you can't feel anything for him. Even Sibyl Quatermaine comes across as a self-absorbed, silly woman when she really could have been something else. Rather, it is the secondary characters that were most interesting - Jung's long suffering wife Emma, Pilgrim's attendant Kessler. But because they are not primary characters, they are treated like the stories of Pilgrim's past lives - we are only given tantalising glimpses and left wishing we were given more.<br />I feel that this was a brilliant premise, but Findley has missed the mark either by trying to be too clever (\\"look how much insight I have into the mind and motivations of Jung\\" type of thing) or by trying to fit too much in and never developing one idea enough to be fulfilling. I kept reading, waiting for the really interesting part to start. Yet it never did. And the ending - I don't want to give anything away, so I will only say that it was just too silly.	2001-09-12
US	50740272	R1NDF3VXRY0PGZ	0140258795	803603230	Longitude: The True Story of a Lone Genius Who Solved the Greatest Scientific Problem of His Time	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The great horological tale	In this day and age of GPS and Satellite Positioning, it is at times hard to remember that there was a time when you could sometimes not be sure exactly where you were. Boats ran into land, flotillas ran into trouble when they didn't reach fresh water in time, wars were won and lost on a navy's luck at arriving in the right place at the right time. Longitude is the story of the search for a reliable form of finding exact longitude readings. Some historians have suggested that it was the British discovery of reliable methods of devising longitude readings that lead to their domination of the seas, and the development of the mighty British Empire. Captain Cook, King George II, Edmond Halley and Charles Darwin all get a mention in this book, but it is John Harrison and his attempts to win the Longitude prize offered by the British government that are major subjects of the story. Harrison, a self-taught clockmaker, spent forty years perfecting his maritime timekeepers. While topics such as clock-making and lunar charting could have been extremely dry, Sobel writes with a convincing passion that makes for engaging reading. While horology (the science of making timepieces or measuring time) may not be a topic you would normally consider reading about, Longitude will still have interest for most readers, as it contains maritime history, politics, geography, history, human interest, and good-guys &amp; bad-guys battling it out. The search for the answer to the longitude problem is an important aspect of history, and one made interesting by Dava Sobel's book. Treat yourself to an enjoyable read that is sure to captivate you.	2001-08-27
US	50740272	R1GIIZMEQE5CVB	0064434990	618798160	Edward the Emu	Books	4	1	2	N	N	An emu in the zoo for you	This delightful rhyming story takes the reader on the adventure of Edward the Emu, who decides being an Emu is boring, and travels around the zoo, trying to be other animals, only to discover that perhaps being an Emu is the best thing there is. With its fantastic illustrations, and rollicking rhymes, this would make a great bedtime story (and it isn't too long for parents who start dropping off to sleep when pressed into reading for ages each night).	2001-08-22
US	50740272	R20QPEEZVX268C	0060280034	524509334	Dinotopia (Dinotopia (HarperCollins))	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A National Geographic from another dimension	Who needs Jurassic Park when you have this book??? This is the story of a man and his son shipwrecked on an island inhabited by Dinosaurs and the  humans who live peacefully with them. This lavishly illustrated book gives us an insight into this world, with diagrams of flora, fauna, landscapes, musical instruments, machines, dwellings and so much more. There is even a complete written language. Dinotopia is like a fantastical edition of National Geographic, with so much detail that you could spend hours getting lost in it. The first of a series, this book has something to interest everyone, Dinosaur fans and those who wouldn't know a triceratops from a tyrannosaurus alike.	2001-08-22
US	50740272	R33EYQSW80HRUF	0380730448	314432707	The Adrian Mole Diaries : The Secret Diary of Adrian Mole, Aged 13 3/4 : The Growing Pains of Adrian Mole	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Quintessential teenager book	The Adrian Mole saga has been an ongoing success -the latest book in the series has Adrian writing his diary at age 30 . The Secret Diary of Adrian Mole is the book where it all started. We follow Adrian through coping with all the issues in life - families, bullying, pimples and poetry writing. Poor Adrian must cope with unrequited love, rejection by the BBC, misunderstandings of his peers and his elders, dotty relatives and parents who can't seem to get their relationships in order. He recounts it all in his agonisingly funny style, which will make anyone realise that if they thought they were going through a bad patch, they should try being Adrian Mole for a day!	2001-08-22
US	50740272	R37BUTTVZYDRIL	0679883584	226796683	Drop Dead	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Wouldn't be dead for quids!	The kids ask their grandparents \\"Why are you such bald old wrinklies?\\" The grandparents explain that they weren't always old wrinklies - that they started out as baby wrinklies, and since then they have lead exciting lives on their way to becoming old. This book helps kids realise that old people were young people once too, without being preachy about it .	2001-08-22
US	50740272	R1GMPSJ2GVMG3V	0060929790	795338322	One Hundred Years of Solitude	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The story of the Buendias and Macondo	Why write a review if there are already so many? Perhaps one more will tip you over the edge, and you will buy the book<br />This fantastical tale is based around the life of the Buendia family and the village that they founded, Macondo. While epic in its scale (one hundred years) it does not read like an epic. Rather, it is like listening to an old relative recount past ancestors, with a decidedly magical-realism spin. This book is beautifully written (and translated, by Gregory Rabassa) with some of the most evocative and lyrical prose you are likely to come across. Yet it is still a very sturdy story - while you could read it for the craftsmanship of the words alone, you would miss a very good tale. Marquez has the interesting technique of referring to events in his stories before they happen, so you joyfully look out for events coming up.<br />A word of warning - make sure that the edition that you buy/borrow/steal has a copy of the family tree in the beginning - with so many characters having the same name, and the branches of the family being so entwined, you will find yourself referring to it time and again. And don't be put off by the number of pages - even though it has over 400, it never bogs down. Once you have read this wonderful tale of a village and family gone full circle, from a beginning to an end, you will realise why it was awarded the Nobel Prize.  Treat yourself.	2001-08-22
US	50740272	RBILCHMIVCIII	0152632247	588174055	Possum Magic (Voyager Books)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	magic, magic, magic	This wonderful book has surely become an Australian classic by now. We follow the story of Hush and Grandma Poss as they travel around Australia to undo some magic. The pictures of the Australian animals are magic, and simple writing means the kids will be repeating it along with you after one or two readings. This would be a great bedtime reading book for littlies and grown-ups to share.	2001-08-22
US	50740272	R2I5J1UAO0PBDU	0375727345	498826779	House of Sand and Fog (Oprah's Book Club)  (Vintage Contemporaries)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Don't judge it by the characters	The basic premise of this story is quite simple - Kathy Nicolo is evicted from her house due to a county tax bungle. Mr Behrani, an exiled colonel from the Shah's Iran, buys the house in an auction. One of the cops who help evict Kathy from the house, Lester, becomes involved in a relationship with Kathy. Of course, nothing is ever as simple as the basic premise, and the sub-plots of these three characters, their pasts and actions, blend and spiral together into a distressing vortex of a no-win situation.<br />Much has been made of the fact that none of the three main characters - Kathy, Behrani and Lester - are particularly likeable, and it's true. You find it very hard to feel sorry when bad things happen to these people - they seem to bring things upon themselves, sometimes in spectacular fashion. It is a measure of how good this book actually is when you want to keep reading to find out what is going to happen, even if you don't particularly empathise with the characters.<br />That is not to say there are no faults with this book - the author's attempts to reveal Lester's motivations are extremely cliched and pretty boring. The ending may be a bit melodramatic for some, but I found it entirely plausible in the context of the build-up within the story. If you are looking for a cutting insight into modern America, there are other novels that could do a better job. But if you are looking for something a bit more modest, you have a good chance of enjoying this novel.	2001-08-19
US	50740272	R1ILP2RL340UUF	0140253181	632629149	Oblivion	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Oblivious to Oblivion	Oblivion is the story of how a family (namely mother and husband) is coping with the death of a woman. At least, part of the story is. The middle half of this book is actually a play, written by a woman Andrew, the husband of the dead woman, is interviewing. Andrew goes to a reading of this play, which is made up of the monologues of dead people. The premise of the play is that it is not when people die that they disappear, rather that when we stop remembering them is when they slip into oblivion<br />If any author should have the prose to deal with subjects like death, love and oblivion, it is Josephine Hart. But reading this book is like listening to discordant music that you think you are meant to like - you try to find something in this to enjoy, but realise by the end that it was just annoying, and trying too hard to be clever. The play in the middle of the book simply does not work. There are no characters in this book that you can truly empathise with. The writing is spare, but not elegant, as in other Hart books (Damage is an example that comes to mind). Rather, every sentence feels like a stilted, over-written construction. <br />I don't expect to enjoy a book to like it, but when that is the case, I do want what I read to move me. Oblivion, despite the fascinating topic and previously proven skill of the author, did not move me in the slightest. It  was simply a very boring book.	2001-08-14
US	50740272	R2TKK545W5YRE1	0399146113	495393406	It's Not about the Bike: My Journey Back to Life	Books	4	1	1	N	N	This is simply a great book for everyone	Lance Armstrong is a three-time winner of the Tour de France, an achievement that in itself is extremely praiseworthy. But what is amazing about Armstrong's victories is that he achieved them after recovering from cancer - at one stage the doctors had believed his chances of recovery were less than 20%.  It's Not About the Bike is the story of Armstrong's life - his growing up, his riding, his becoming a father. Most of all, it is about his battle with cancer, and how it changed him for the better.<br />Don't fear - this is not some airy-fairy new-age hope story. Armstrong is very down to earth about the whole process that he went through, and is not afraid to share details (gory, icky details). This book achieves a lot that other autobiographies miss - he drops some pretty big names and doesn't shy away from comparing himself from the greats in cycling, yet you never feel he is boasting. You get a lot of detail - what goes into chemo treatments; his wife's injection &amp; drug regime  for IVF; a run through of his 1999 ride of the Tour de France - but it never feels boring or superfluous. Rather, Armstrong comes across as a guy that manages to be amazing and reassuringly normal at the same time - he likes to kick back and drink beer, he loves his Mother, he is proud of being a Dad. He just happens to be one of the greatest sports people competing today, and after reading this book you realise how hard he works to be so good.<br />You don't need to be a cyclist to enjoy this book - while there are sections on his riding, nothing is too technical, and all cycling terms used are explained. As the title says - it's not about the bike. It is about an amazing man that went to hell and back, and made the best of the second chance he was given. I guarantee this book will manage to make you laugh, make you think and inspire you all in the same reading.  And there's not much more you can ask from in a book than that.	2001-08-14
US	50740272	R1K6DW8P5MJCJE	0399146113	495393406	It's Not about the Bike: My Journey Back to Life	Books	5	0	0	N	N	This is simply a great book for everyone	Lance Armstrong is a three-time winner of the Tour de France, an achievement that in itself is extremely praiseworthy. But what is amazing about Armstrong's victories is that he achieved them after recovering from cancer - at one stage the doctors had believed his chances of recovery were less than 20%.  It's Not About the Bike is the story of Armstrong's life - his growing up, his riding, his becoming a father. Most of all, it is about his battle with cancer, and how it changed him for the better.<br />Don't fear - this is not some airy-fairy new-age hope story. Armstrong is very down to earth about the whole process that he went through, and is not afraid to share details (gory, icky details). This book achieves a lot that other autobiographies miss - he drops some pretty big names and doesn't shy away from comparing himself from the greats in cycling, yet you never feel he is boasting. You get a lot of detail - what goes into chemo treatments; a run through of his 1999 ride of the Tour de France - but it never feels boring or superfluous. Rather, Armstrong comes across as a guy that manages to be amazing and reassuringly normal at the same time - he likes to kick back and drink beer, he loves his Mother, he is proud of being a Dad. He just happens to be one of the greatest sports people competing today, and after reading this book you realise how hard he works to be so good.<br />You don't need to be a cyclist to enjoy this book - while there are sections on his riding, nothing is too technical, and all cycling terms used are explained. As the title says - it's not about the bike. It is about an amazing man that went to hell and back, and made the best of the second chance he was given. I guarantee this book will manage to make you laugh, make you think and inspire you all in the same reading.  And there's not much more you can ask from in a book than that.	2001-08-14
US	50740272	R105ZJJNE4AFTU	0375411143	930101336	The Biographer's Tale	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A weighty, woven read	Phineas was a post-graduate studying postmodern literary theory when he decided he would rather deal with 'real things'. In his new quest, he sets out to write a biography of the biographer Scholes Destry-Scholes. Along the way he encounters eugenics, soul searching, relationships and bee taxonomy among other topics and experiences.<br />If you have not encountered postmodernism, post-structuralism or literary theory before, you may find some of the points in this book very vague or incomprehensible. Even if you have encountered them before, you may still be left scratching your head in places, wondering why they were included. Like 'Possession', Byatt reveals her great gift for creating historically based 'facts' and materials that are in reality fictions. Within this novel there are some well-earned swipes at feminism, post-structuralism and literary theory. But by the end, i thought Byatt was trying a little too hard to be clever. However, if you have ever had to endure a lecture on post-modernism/structuralism, you should give this novel a go.	2001-08-10
US	50740272	R2O7G8GALHYSNR	1585670030	406649470	The Virtuoso	Books	2	4	6	N	N	The title does not reflect the ability	This book reminds me of Suskind's 'Perfume' on many accounts. Both are translations into English. Both are set in Europe of the 18th century, and both have left me disappointed. The Virtuoso is the story of Italian noblewoman Carlotta and her love/crush on the male soprano Gasparo, whom she remembers from her village childhood. So far, so good. But i find that i can't feel anything for any of the characters in this disjointed book. De Moor is a trained singer, and fills the book with technical terms. A background of music study at tertiary level meant i could understand what she was writing, but i didn't feel that it added anything to the story. I couldn't help but imagine that someone without a musical background would find it outright annoying.	2001-08-10
US	50740272	R3GOBMYVWGVYT	0452260116	312810069	Song of Solomon	Books	4	0	0	N	N	What a way with words	Yet again, Toni Morrison has managed to dazzle me dually, with both her wonderful crafting of a story, and fantastic use of words. While i was drawn into the story of 3 generations of the Dead family, what i love about this work is the way Morrison puts the words together - her work is truly a joy to read.<br />The story of this novel is part coming of age, part exploring of past, part family saga and a whole lot besides. And as always, there are some fabulous characters: three men named Macon Dead, a woman named Pilate (yes, as in Pontius) and another woman named Sing. And there are great stories behind the names, let alone the characters and their actions. <br />I suggest that if you are looking for an engrossing read that will make you think as well as make your day, this might be the book you are looking for.	2001-08-10
US	50740272	R382YU19CTSN5T	014100018X	598461998	Chocolat	Books	4	0	0	N	N	You can smell the chocolate...	An old-style tale in a modern setting (if you put two facts together, you can date it as set in 1995) Chocolat is a likeable tale of the arrival of an outsider in a small French village, and the changes her presence brings about. I found that best thing about the story was the description of the chocolates themselves - i once worked in a chocolate shop, and could understand the magic effect chocolates and sweets can have! One reviewer asked 'Is this the best book every written?' and i have to say no. But it is a worthwhile, if a bit 'girlie', story that is best enjoyed with a glass of hot chocolate close to hand	2001-08-10
US	50740272	R2CP2ER8JTKL2E	0375725849	835505349	Perfume: The Story of a Murderer	Books	3	1	3	N	N	A bit of a disappointment	Perfume is the story of Jean-Baptiste Grenuoille, a creature with two highly peculiar features related to smell - he has an amazingly fine olfactory ability, and he also has no body odour of his own. Grenouille is not a character that you can like in any way, and i don't think the author wants us to. We follow Grenouille as he learns what is necessary to develop his  freakish gift,  and then as he descends into a terrifyingly evil sequence of events.<br />I am so disappointed! This book started out so well, and there are some wonderful passages in it.  Yet, the whole middle section is simply un-necessary, and while the last section recaptures some of the magic, i just thought the whole novel had fallen apart. But Suskind's description of scents, of perfume....i will admit that reading the book was worth it for that alone.  I know of some people who have listed this as one of their top ever reads: i just cannot admire it that much. But Suskind's ability in the first third of the book to evoke historical France, and the fascinating minutiae of 18th century perfume making, was well done. Pity he didn't follow through.	2001-08-10
US	50740272	R3I7S8CA6X6TZD	0679735909	627682796	Possession	Books	4	3	4	N	N	I was possessed	What a clever book - not only does Byatt create characters, but for her historical characters she creates a complete oeuvre of work for not one but two poets of the Victorian era. What i really liked about this book is that it makes the reader think about the purposes of scholarship and the interpretation of texts. As a student, i seem to come across so many articles where i think the author did not write it to share something important, just to justify their existence (or tenure).I read this novel as saying some of the characters were the same.  As for interpretation of texts -  i love the fact that this underlines that we find what we are looking for when we read. (an interesting article about this aspect in this novel can be found at: ... - \\"Three at one Blow: Using Possession to Introduce Theory by Julia Whitsitt) I thought   women's studies suffered especially from this aspect in the book - why does every important female writer *have* to be a lesbian?? &#9786;<br />But this is book is not just some intellectual exercise - it is a great story. Two historians come together to chase the trail of an unexpected 'addition' to the writers they study (she studies Christabel LaMotte, a not so famous poet; he studies Randolph Henry Ash, a famous Victorian poet). The story flows seemlessly from the 20th century to the 19th, with wonderful use of letters, diary entries and good old-fashioned story writing. Also included is a great cast of 'supporting characters' - brash American intellectuals (i have come across my fair share of Leonora Sterns) introspective British ones. I must admit that I did skim over some of the passages of poetry by LaMotte and Ash, the two main historical characters, but i found the story engrossing, and the historical aspects very believable. A truly worthwhile read.	2001-08-10
US	50740272	R75QHBKDDTWBO	0679442766	687421275	The Consolations of Philosophy	Books	3	5	10	N	N	I wasn't consoled	De Botton has written a book where he uses the lives and work of six major philosophers to help people come to terms with some of the problems in everyday lives: Socrates on Unpopularity Epicurus on not having enough money Seneca on Frustration Montaigne on Inadequacy Schopenhauer on having a broken hear Nietzsche on Difficulties<br />The author has attempted to find a place between a self-help book  and philosophy primer, but doesn't quite make it. The self-help aspect is very elusive, and the examples given are not particularly encompassing examples of the philosophers' work. Most disappointing for this reader, who has encountered the philosophers mentioned only through studies of politics and history, none of the writing gives good examples of how to apply their philosophy to everyday life. For example:<br />* The section on Socrates didn't really give advice on how to deal with un-popularity - if anything it said Socrates was an exception for how he dealt with society (and he wasn't unpopular - he had lots of close friends, who were there up until the end)<br />* The section on Epicurus did point out that happiness is not directly related to money, but in a very convoluted way that could have perhaps been pointed out using another, clearer example (the Buddha comes to mind).<br />* In the section on Schopenhauer, we learn what a depressive, self-indulgent person he was, but not much about the emotion of love (Schopenhauer thinks it is to do with the continuation of the species, nothing more). The consolation seems to be that we have to remember that life is not meant to be happy, and to remember that lots of other people have gone through what we are going through. I'm sorry, but if I had a broken heart, I don't think I would find that very helpful.<br />That said, this book has some interesting little insights (I learned more about Montaigne's thoughts on his body functions that I really needed) and it does not set itself on too high a level for non-specialiststo enjoy. I just wish that I had been consoled a little more by Mr De Botton and his philosophers.	2001-08-08
US	50740272	R2SFWYLF8VYR00	0312195516	226874686	The Red Tent	Books	2	13	16	N	N	Maybe i have missed something	Perhaps i have missed something that the other reviewers got out of this book, but i did not find it at all interesting, or particularly well written. A lot of it was simply a list of 'who begat who'. Nor did I find the talk of the red tent particularly inspiring or &quot;empowering&quot; - but i don't think that women having periods is anything particularly important - it is just something that happens, not something we should be ashamed of or celebrate. I didn't find that the narrative of this story drew me in - i couldn't really care for Dinah and her family or what happened to them. I finished the book, because i thought that perhaps all the good bits were at the end. I was mistaken on that account.I also thought that the book was a bit misleading - while historical stories usually are about exceptions to the rule, this book gives Dinah a much more free life than women of her 'station' and situation in life would have had then. Diamant glosses over the fact that life for most women living in Old Testament times was hard.	2001-08-06
US	50740272	RA21Z2CRCSS4C	0060930535	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Growing up in the Congo	In 1959, a Baptist minister takes his wife and 4 daughters to the Belgian Congo to preach the word of God. Ignoring the advice he is given, he stays on even as the country begins to fall apart, with disastrous consequences for all. With the big picture of history going on around them, the family is inexorably drawn downwards in a spiral of disaster. We continue on with those who leave the Congo, learning that such a place can be left, but will never leave you.<br />The book is written with various characters taking turns as the narrator - the mother Orleanna, and the daughters - self-absorbed Rachael, crippled Adah, strong-willed Leah and the baby, Ruth May. It is through their very personal viewpoints that we see their little part of the world as part of a larger picture - the Independence of the Congo. What is so wonderful about this book is that Kingsolver manages to make you interested in the viewpoint of all of the sisters, and it is through their multiple narratives that you build your impression of the story. Kingsolver also takes the bold step of continuing the story after the family has left the Congo, and we see how the personal traits of the sisters continue into their adult lives. (Rachael comes across as a parody, but trust me - i have met women like that in very similar circumstances!) <br />The first 2/3 of the book reminded me a lot of The Mosquito Coast - a family dragged into the wilderness by the father, and kept there through his arrogance, pride and self-superior stupidity. It is quite a damning indictment of misplaced belief in the superiority of Western Culture, but not, i think, in a ram-it-down-your-throat politically correct way. It is a story not only about displacement, or about Africa. It is a well-constructed story about families, perceptions and how character is only partly formed by environment. While it is a hefty tome (614 small-print pages) i was never once bored or tempted to skim pages. A book i would recommend to anyone who is interested in a good read set in an interesting environment.	2001-07-31
US	50740272	R33LEHO3VX3DH9	0786705973	461529119	South: A Memoir of the Endurance Voyage	Books	2	9	19	N	N	For Antartic Fanatics only	The first thing to remember about this book is that it was written in 1919. Secondly, it is not a story per se, but a recounting of an expedition (albeit gone horribly wrong) including the obligatory longitude and latitude references and long passages about the weather. That said, even though there were some wonderfully droll passages*, i found this book rather hard going. My husband, who had read it before, told me it improved after the first few chapters, and it did. But when the first expedition was over and we move on to the disaster of the Aurora, it gets very hard to stay awake again. <br />If you are an avid fan of Antarctic Adventures, you have to read this one, as it is a classic. Otherwise, you might find this a little 'hard going'. * I really liked this line about the Killer Whales spotted around the camp - &quot;Shipwrecked mariners drifting in the Antarctic seas would be things not dreamed of in the Killer's philosophy, and might appear on closer inspection to be tasty substitutes for seal and penguin.&quot;	2001-07-31
US	50740272	R2J37XOW2MYMKS	006099486X	418849151	The Professor and the Madman: A Tale of Murder, Insanity, and the Making of The Oxford English Dictionary	Books	4	1	2	N	N	The Surgeon of Crowthorne	This non-fiction book tells the story of the development of the Oxford English Dictionary, with much of the book being dedicated to  one of the Dictionary's most interesting contributors - Dr Minor, retired US Army, who was incarcerated in an English mental asylum. While Minor's story in itself is fascinating, Winchester also does a brilliant job of taking the reader through a journey that includes the history of dictionaries, Victorian England and the American Civil War. The book manages to jump from one topic to another and back again without being disjointed. Winchester achieves something all good books should aim for - he manages to teach the reader something (or in my case, many things) without being noticeably didactic, or getting in the way of a good story.	2001-07-31
US	50740272	R3DQ1RN7NNEQDX	0156007819	919236623	Eucalyptus: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Romance, fairytales and gum trees in small town Australia	This is the story of Holland and his daughter Ellen. Holland buys a property in the West of New South Wales, and  starts to cover it with as many variations of the Eucalyptus tree that he can get his hands on. When Ellen comes of age, he decides that the man who marries her will be the man that can name every Eucalyptus on his property.<br /> Now, this might not sound like much of a premise for a good story, but Bail manages to infuse it with a certain quality - it is almost like magical realism, but in a very Australian spirit. This lyrical story manages to encapsulate wonderful descriptions, both overt and covert, of the Australian landscape both outback and urban; and it also manages to provide descriptions of some wonderful characters that are really caricatures of Australian society. Even the Eucalyptus are given wonderfully descriptive passages that make you feel that they are almost as much characters in the story as the people. And within it all, Bail manages a tender, yet not 'gooey' love story. To the very close of the story (it did not feel like an ending at all) Bail held me captivated. <br />I would have thought that the very Australianness of this book would be a hurdle for foreign readers, yet reviewers around the globe have given it glowing praise. Eucalyptus is a difficult book to describe, but a very easy book to read. I think it would appeal to a wide range of readers - i suggest that if you have any desire at all to read it that you pick it up, and give it at least to half way through before judging it. I think many readers will be pleasantly surprised with this  poetic story of a father, a daughter, her suitors and a lot of gum trees.	2001-07-31
US	50740272	R1KETPTXM28Q1K	0452280397	331831848	Paradise (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	12	16	N	N	Words, beautiful words	The main comments i had encountered everywhere about this book before i read it was  people were disappointed, that  it was not as good as Morrison's previous books. If that is the case, i can't wait to read more of her work!<br />I thought this was a great book, not just because of the fine crafting of the story, but because it was so thought provoking. And i love some of the names of the characters - the four sisters in the 'nativity' play - Hope, Chaste, Lovely and Pure. Or Lone, named such because that is what she was when they found her. And Morrison does such a good job of writing about food! (i love reading about food in books, so perhaps i am a little biased).<br />This is a story about the township of Ruby, and it's relationship to the Convent nearby. Ruby is a town populated entirely by the descendants of freed slaves, and the Convent was actually once a school for Indian girls, now a home to an eclectic grouping of women. We learn about Ruby and the Convent through the stories of various women, and i think we learn a lot about perceptions, and how history shapes the present. What was best about this story for me, however, was Morrison's wonderful use of language. Some people have complained that her work is too complicated, that ' you have to read the sentences more than once to understand them.' I didn't find this at all. This was my first Toni Morrison book, and definitely not my last.	2001-07-31
US	50740272	R2J9WN7ML4604D	0871136112	786465583	All the Trouble in the World: The Lighter Side of Overpopulation, Famine, Ecological Disaster, Ethnic Hatred, Plague, and Poverty	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Yet again, he comes through	I am a vegetarian. I disapprove of the death penalty. I am a feminist (with a small f). You could even say i am a liberal. Yet, i defy all stereotyping, because i love the writing of P J O'Rourke. Yes, his writing is biased.(show me writing that isn't) Yes, he can be bombastic. But if you want an informed and entertaining read on the important issues facing the world today, you could not go past this man as a great starting point. Love or loathe the individual, you have to admire the writer. Well done again, Mr O'Rourke	2000-12-19
US	50740272	R1DERO5EQTFJIA	0805057870	581888305	Blood Rites: Origins and History of the Passions of War	Books	2	1	11	N	N	Blood Rites	I was very disappointed by this book. As someone who is interested in History, Sociology and the place of the military in society, i thought i would find something in it that, even if i did not agree with, provoked me. I did not. Perhaps some specialists will find this interesting, but i found it very boring. Why does it remain on my bookshelf? The occassional quote for a history paper is all that is keeping it there at the moment.	2000-12-19
US	50740272	RC7FI0NLDNJ1L	1864501367	255678821	Lonely Planet Read This First: Europe	Books	3	11	15	N	N	Scant Information	Admittedly, this is not meant to be a replacement for books such as Europe on a Shoestring, but i found it just a little lacking in information that would be useful for planning a trip. Perhaps a good source for complete beginners who know nothing about Europe, but if people wish to travel Europe, perhaps they would be better off with a more in depth guide	2000-12-18
US	50740272	R25K4NYWIJCM74	0679432248	800786385	Body(Chic Simple) (Chic Simple Component)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Feel good about your body	My previous experience with the Chic Simple range was the clothing books, with the clothing set out against a plain white background. This is not the case with this book. This is a sumptious exploration of the human body, organised in neat sections as in the other books. Will you learn anything you didn't know before. Probably not. Will you finish the book feeling good about the body within which you live. You probably will. If you are looking for a book to tell you how to change your body, this is probably not for you, but otherwise it is a worthwhile endeavour	2000-12-18
US	50740272	R1N2F4EUYIV4HS	0385497946	599898766	The Tale of Murasaki: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Tale of Murasaki	This is the best book i have read all year - if you thought Memoirs of a Geisha was good, you have to read this! I have already gone out an bought a translation of the Tales of Genji, as i have promised myself for years i would do.<br />Whether youare interested in Japanese history or not, this is a book to cherish. Well done Liza Dalby!	2000-12-15
US	50740272	R1SOVZOCY012AT	0786866683	851933744	The Last Samurai	Books	4	2	6	N	N	Children &amp; their mothers	I was a supposedly 'gifted' child, who was never very pushed by her mother. I had grand ideas that one day when i had children i would teach them early about history and science, and make sure that they were multilingual little geniuses. Now older, and having met some such people, i am glad for my mother's approach!! This is the light with which i approach De Witt's fabulous book - be careful when raising your children that you are not just trying to have a second go for yourself! A interestingly written book, that takes time to read but is well worth the effort	2000-12-15
