US	50742388	R32AE37HMRJQ0	0373836546	448122834	Velvet, Leather & Lace: A Man's Gotta Do\Calling The Shots\Baring It All (Signature Select)	Books	5	4	9	N	N	A MAN'S GOTTA DO ---- ME!!  *eg*	Ms. Forster, I love your voice and writing style! Great characters, great storyline and sense of humor, WONDERFUL sexual tension. I'm so not foot-kissing here, either, but I have to tell you, too, that pov switching within scenes usually makes me batty, but even though you did it now and then, it was just as smoothly and seamlessly as La Nora. (Roberts) *G*<br /><br />On my way to shower, and then jump hubby. And that's also something a book, in and of itself, hasn't inspired me to do since Betina Krahn's THE PRINCESS AND THE BARBARIAN! *blushing*<br /><br />Ahem. Thanks for a marvelous read, Suz! I can't wait to dive into the other two stories...a little later. : )	2005-08-07
US	50742388	R3R6MFOX7FLPGL	0973728256	442560346	Secrets, Fact or Fiction?	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Truth or Dare!	This anthology of nine scintillating stories, all by unique and skilled writers, is intended to bring us back to the thrill of reading; to take time out to relax from our busy lives, to lose ourselves in a good book. At the same time, it challenges readers to decide whether or not one or all of the tales are true or false.<br /><br />It works.<br /><br />From growing up in a highly dysfunctional and alcoholic home, to love lost and found, to murder and mayhem, this tightly-written group of stories has it all. Could I tell what was real or not?  Some stories were so over the top - most in a good way - I thought they just had to be real, i.e., if you refer to the old adage, \\"Truth is stranger than fiction.\\" On the other hand, some stories were SO well told, and believable, that I was scratching my head in confusion.<br /><br />As an added incentive, there is a form in the back of the book you can fill out with your answers. If you get them correct, you have the opportunity to win signed copies of nine other books written by the authors, and a copy of Secrets Volume II due for release in April 2006.<br /><br />Deadline for entries is March 1, 2006 -- so...GET READING!  *grin*	2005-07-11
US	50742388	R2RS0JEMUDT82P	0060513659	87860638	Yours Until Dawn (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Delightful prose and dialogue...	...but the end was a tad iffy.<br /><br />I'll start by saying Teresa Medeiros is an auto-buy author for me. I've rarely been disappointed in ANY of her work. This novel held me intrigued and played on my emotions up until the last few chapters, when a couple of plot twists took decidedly wrong turns -- in my humble opinion. I did see one of them coming, but another one totally threw me off. : (<br /><br />That said, this is still a great read by a talented writer. Characterization, prose, and dialogue are classic Medeiros. Her handling of a blind hero was exceptional.	2004-10-03
US	50742388	R2DZPLEOMP6MBI	0373246110	320235049	And Then There Were Three (Logan's Legacy) (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Wow! First read by Sandoval, but NOT my last!	AND THEN THERE WERE THREE is an emotional roller-coaster ride story about clueless single dad, Sam Lowery, his adorable daughter, and uncoventional nanny, Erin O'Grady. An original storyline twist brings these three together, and I'd love to read about Sam's siblings, too! Here's hoping Ms. Sandoval has their stories up her sleeve.<br /><br />I can't say enough good about this new, extremely talented writer for Silhouette romance. If you've never read a category series romance, I highly recommend Ms. Sandoval as a starting point!	2004-09-20
US	50742388	R8C48YK8QINM7	0743457455	967051610	Smooth Talkin' Stranger	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Intriguing...	The intensity of the characters and plot kept me turning the pages of this intriguing book. Heath is well-known for her controversial subjects, and this may be her most compelling one to date. The beginning is enough to draw tears from the reader and make one forget that one-night-stands are a major taboo - especially in this day and age of STD's. But...it IS fiction, after all. : )<br /><br />All in all, a very emotional, character-driven, yet suspense-filled book, with many heartwarming and heartbreaking moments. The ending was perfection.	2004-09-20
US	50742388	R1RMCB6R6O4H4U	0060529466	846427863	An Invitation to Seduction	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Not the Lorraine Heath I know and love. : (	This is the first time I've read a book by Lorraine Heath and was sorely disappointed. Not only was the emotional treatment of the heroine appalling, but the storyline was a bit too controversial even for Ms. Heath, IMHO. The hero was far from honorable in that he kept trying to \\"steal\\" the heroine away from her betrothed - dark secret, or not, on the betrothed's part, and the heroine was a confusing mix of repeated should-I-or-shouldn't-I's back and forth between the two men.<br /><br />I think Ms. Heath has played this series out. : (	2004-09-20
US	50742388	R7GBLRQJ6A1QV	0425194833	704169435	Miss Wonderful (Carsington Family Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	LOVE Loretta Chase!	Loretta Chase returns with a bang in MISS WONDERFUL! Secondary characters are as well developed as the main ones, and the storyline is emotional, dramatic, and funny -- Ms. Chase's trademark for a compelling read.<br /><br />Brava for another great read that was worth the wait! Please don't make us wait that long for the next one, though! : )	2004-09-20
US	50742388	R15MECRE0YRIMD	037324620X	205977828	One Perfect Man (Silhouette Special Edition No. 1620)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Fabulous!!	New-to-me-author Lynda Sandoval is now on my list of auto-buys. What a fantastic author! ONE PERFECT MAN was exactly that - perfect. Deeply emotional, real-life characters, and witty dialogue make this one of the more compelling series category reads I've had the pleasure of devouring.<br /><br />KUDOS, Ms. Sandoval! Thanks for the delicious read!	2004-09-20
US	50742388	R27VQTPQ2CSM9Y	0385338252	453044037	The Immortal Highlander	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Adam Black is well worth the wait!	The Editorial Reviews &quot;From the Inside Flap&quot; on this page pretty much says it all! I'll just add that this is exceptional writing from an incredibly talented author. Karen Marie Moning hits pay dirt times ten with THE IMMORTAL HIGHLANDER. Adam's story is going to be a tough act to follow!!<br /><br /> Kudos, Ms. Moning! I can't wait to see what comes next!	2004-08-04
US	50742388	R2CQYL24XVQIBX	0974363952	725729932	Lady Dragon	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Delicious debut from Ms. Mason!	As the other reviewers have done such a fabulous job of synopsizing (is that a word? *g*), let me just add that I LOVED everything about Ms. Mason's writing. Characterization was flawless, IMHO; storyline was fresh and original, and there are enough twists and turns to keep the pacing fast and intense.<br />LADY DRAGON is a delightful historical romance, and Jewell Mason is now an auto buy for me!	2004-07-07
US	50742388	ROWJ0FWI9AQSX	1932815074	875773417	Wintertide	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Highly Recommended Fantastical Fantasy!	Born during the height of a raging storm, the infant Khamsin is taken by the village healer to be raised and taught about her destiny. Never knowing her true parents, Khamsin develops a deep affection for, and revels in the teachings of, her Tanta Bron.<br />Nearing her eighteenth birthday, and an important transition in her life, Khamsin is devastated by the death of her foster mother, then again, by an attack on her village leaving most of her people dead. She departs with the tinker, Rylan, to seek her fate, and the two form a special bond during their travels. When they finally arrive at a village far from home, Rylan informs Khamsin that he must leave her for a time. When three weeks come and go with no sign of Rylan's return, Khamsin sets out on her own to discover the true history of her heritage.<br />WINTERTIDE is filled with all manner of dark, dangerous and fascinating characters and creatures. Best-selling and award-winning author, Linnea Sinclair, pens a tale filled with beautiful narrative passages and detailed descriptive prose. This is a story of another time and place where only two people have the power to end the war between dark magicks. Suspense abounds around every corner making this a fast-paced, intriguing read.<br />WINTERTIDE is a highly imaginative, complex tale of sword, sorcery, and fantasy with romantic overtones. Although the hero and heroine are separated throughout most of the book, when they do finally come together, it is a satisfying joining of two hearts and souls that belong together.<br />I highly recommend WINTERTIDE to readers looking for a fast-paced, unusual, dark and dangerous story about sorcerers, wizards, demons, and the power of love to conquer all.	2004-06-03
US	50742388	R2XA9O7PFK9E12	1594141029	606512330	Five Star Expressions - Hallie's Comet	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Outstanding new voice in paranormal romance!	Successful artist Hallie O'Brien is renowned for her ballerina paintings -- not ones of comets, an unknown hunky man, an historic brothel and its occupants.  But those are what she's been painting lately -- from her dreams. She can't explain either the dreams or the visions she's also been experiencing, both of which are connected to the paintings. While in one of her \\"trances\\", Hallie has an out-of-body experience and observes two inhabitants of the brothel, Lady Scarlet and Mary Knickers. They talk about being in Cripple Creek, Colorado, so Hallie decides to visit there, hoping to solve the puzzling and mysterious mystery of the paintings and her visions. Little does she expect to also meet the perfect man in her painting, whom she's dubbed Gabriel, up close and personal.<br />Recently successful glamour photographer Gabe Quinn agrees to meet his younger brother Josh's friend, Hallie O'Brien, at the Denver airport. He's still stewing over the fact that a serious leg injury has taken him away from his world travels as a former photojournalist, and that his fiance is unable to deal with his now less-than-perfect self. The last thing Gabe wants is to have to play nice with some snooty ballerina artist. Upon meeting Hallie, however, Gabe feels that somehow, somewhere, he has met and loved her before. Intrigued, he decides playing host to Hallie might be just exactly what he needs.<br />Hallie and Gabe are delightful characters! Ms. Dietz does an incredible and believable job of pairing them to try and solve the mystery of Hallie's paintings and to explore her unsettling claim that they may have shared a past life. When Hallie has one of her \\"trances,\\" poor Gabe can only listen and wait until she returns to her \\"normal\\" self. In the beginning, Hallie rarely recalls what happens during her time slips. When they become more frequent and compelling, and with Gabe to tell her what she says and does during the trances, Hallie is better able to remember them. That leads to some very intense moments between them.<br />HALLIE'S COMET is a thoroughly refreshing, believable, and original story about true love. Ms. Dietz elicits all of the reader's emotions and senses in this enchanting tale of lost and found love. I guarantee this novel will find a place on your keeper shelf!ome very intense moments between them.<br />HALLIE'S COMET is a thoroughly refreshing, believable, and original story about true love. Ms. Dietz elicits all of the reader's emotions and senses in this enchanting tale of lost and found love. I guarantee this novel will find a place on your keeper shelf!	2004-05-26
US	50742388	R1O3BPDWK01VIZ	1594260796	427843638	Illusion of Memory	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Speechless...	L.B. Milano is definitely an author whom fans of horror, psychological thrillers, and murder mysteries will want to keep an eye on!<br />Normally I'm a romance fiction type of reader; however, I agreed to review this book after reading a brief excerpt at the author's web site. Talk about hooks! Once in my hands, I couldn't put the blasted book down. Good thing it's more a novella than a novel!<br />Ms. Milano has a delightfully twisted imagination and the ability to make a reader connect with even the most vile of characters. The storyline is original, characterization flawless, and the writing in and of itself is perfection. Not once did my inner editor kick in while I was reading.<br />I HIGHLY recommend ILLUSION OF MEMORY as a book you won't soon forget, and promise you'll never look at spaghetti sauce the same way, again!	2004-04-16
US	50742388	R2DHM8V3AECS39	0425194582	430703634	The Wishing Chalice (Berkley Sensation)	Books	4	14	15	N	N	A true romantic love story...	Cumbria, England -- Present day; Windermere Castle, Cumbria, England -- 1315<br />Twenty-five year-old Isabel Herbert flees from America to her late grandmother's country home in England to heal from a miscarriage and the subsequent breakup of her marriage. While exploring the countryside, Isabel discovers a jewel-encrusted chalice and is stunned when a mist encloses her in a romantic vision of a man and woman obviously deeply in love.  Isabel so wishes she was the recipient of the glowing emotion the man in the vision directs toward the woman Isabel assumes is his wife. His very pregnant wife.<br />As the inexplicable scene fades, Isabel is caught up in a storm and thrust back in time, awakening to the man from the vision -- who claims he is her husband. Isabel is confused and astonished to find herself occupying the body of the woman she also saw in the chalice's vision. She soon realizes her predicament is not due to an overactive imagination, or wishful thinking. She must now play a dangerous game pretending amnesia until she can find the chalice and somehow return to her own time...and body.<br />Born on the wrong side of the blanket, Hunter, formerly of Hawkhaven, now of Windermere, has achieved his life's goal -- a gift of a castle from King Edward, and the woman of his dreams. Detra, however, soon turns into the wife of his nightmares, but Hunter is confident he can turn her affections toward him. After an argument over Hunter's precious chalice, and a fall that injures Detra's head, Hunter suddenly realizes his optomism has come to fruition -- Detra is a changed woman. Claiming she has no memory of him or their marriage, Hunter promptly sets out to seduce his lady wife into falling in love with him. But, what will happen when Detra regains her lost memories?<br />Hunter is one of the most strong, honorable, and sympathetic heroes to ever grace the pages of a romance novel. Isabel is a woman torn between doing what she knows is right or giving in to her own needs and wants. Ms. Landry's character development, from main players to secondary, is flawless.<br />Although the first half of THE WISHING CHALICE is somewhat slow-paced,  the originality,  premise of the story, and characterization held my attention. Numerous twists and turns then picked up the pace and led to a most satisfying conclusion.<br />I highly recommend THE WISHING CHALICE as a true romantic love story filled with intrigue, betrayal, and the bonding of two people who truly belong together, no matter what the era, or setting. I haven't read Ms. Landry's first novel, A PERFECT LOVE, but am keeping my eyes open for a copy!needs and wants. Ms. Landry's character development, from main players to secondary, is flawless.<br />Although the first half of THE WISHING CHALICE is somewhat slow-paced,  the originality,  premise of the story, and characterization held my attention. Numerous twists and turns then picked up the pace and led to a most satisfying conclusion.<br />I highly recommend THE WISHING CHALICE as a true romantic love story filled with intrigue, betrayal, and the bonding of two people who truly belong together, no matter what the era, or setting. I haven't read Ms. Landry's first novel, A PERFECT LOVE, but am keeping my eyes open for a copy!	2004-04-08
US	50742388	R1S65A6FWLYB92	0060509112	202900771	Almost Perfect	Books	5	46	47	N	N	ALMOST PERFECT is perfect, in my opinion...	Widow Cassandra Marston, her wastrel father Roland Conningsby, and younger sister Elizabeth, are about to travel from their foreclosed home in England to Scotland in the hopes of escaping creditors and securing passage to America. A notorious gambler, Conningsby placed Elizabeth &quot;on-the-table&quot; as a gambling bet...and lost. When the despicable winner, Neville Mayne, Earl Bucksden, arrives to collect Elizabeth shortly before their departure, Cassandra, infuriated, knocks him over the head with an urn. Assuming she has committed murder, the three flee for their lives to the home of Cassandra's aunt-in-law,  Philana, Lady Forster, at Ettrick House in Scotland. They arrive just in time to attend a grand ball at Ryecroft Castle. Little does Cassandra know the ensuing house party will bring her face to face with the incorrigible rake Lucien Hollier -- the man who left her six years ago because of her father's reputation.<br /><br />Lucien Hollier can't believe his eyes when he sees Cassandra Marston at his friend's home, Ryecroft Castle. When she challenges him to a card game Lucien willingly accepts...and loses. Furious at his loss, Lucien sets out to expose Cassandra as a cheat, only to discover she and her family have fled in the night. He will find her. He will get his money back. Or so he thinks. Lucien can't believe his good luck when he discovers Cassandra, the victim of a carriage accident and amnesia, left alone by her father and sister at the side of the road.<br /><br />Certain Cassandra has seen the last of Lucien, she's none too happy to be rescued by the rake. Now she must feign amnesia, and hope for the best. What follows is a dangerous game whereby Lucien claims she is his wife, taking her to his lodge. What can Cassandra do, but comply?<br /><br />ALMOST PERFECT is the delightful debut Regency romp by versatile author, Denise Domning writing as Denise Hampton. Filled with compelling, believable characters and storyline, Ms. Hampton yet again proves herself as a romance author at the top of her game.<br /><br />Fast paced, exciting, intriguing, and original, ALMOST PERFECT is a perfect read. Whether writing Medieval, Elizabethan, or, now, Regency England and Scotland, Ms. Hampton will capture the reader's attention from first page to last.<br /><br />I highly recommend ALMOST PERFECT as one of the best Regency romance historicals you will read in the genre. A definite keeper!self as a romance author at the top of her game.<BR> <BR>Fast paced, exciting, intriguing, and original, ALMOST PERFECT is a perfect read. Whether writing Medieval, Elizabethan, or, now, Regency England and Scotland, Ms. Hampton will capture the reader's attention from first page to last.<BR> <BR>I highly recommend ALMOST PERFECT as one of the best Regency romance historicals you will read in the genre. A definite keeper!	2004-04-07
US	50742388	R233OWB3IL7YQ0	0553586335	909904007	Gone to the Dogs	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Fun, fun, fun!	Lydia Keane, former hot babe, now reincarnated into the form of a Pembroke Welsh Corgi, is not a happy dog. Given a chance to right previous wrongs, Lydia, now known as Piggy, is on her third owner, Nell Jordan. Nell is proving to be boring with a capital B, until she becomes guardian to a huge sum of money that Piggy has inherited from a recently deceased cranky old coot who Piggy visited in her new job as a therapy dog. Who would've guessed that the elderly Frank Cramer was sitting on a fortune? Certainly neither Nell or Piggy, the latter frustrated to the extreme because she isn't capable of getting her hands...er...paws, on all of that lovely money. Instant fame ensues, with both Nell and Piggy looked upon as nefarious gold-diggers in the eyes of Frank's estranged daughter, and others.<br /><br />Enter heroic Dan Travis, the handsome, sexy photographer who rescues both Nell and Piggy from their crashed car. Piggy is at once suspicious of this hunky do-gooder. Who on earth would be interested in plain-Jane, dull Nell, she wonders? When Dan becomes a regular visitor of Nell's, following her around claiming he's also a journalist who wants an exclusive on the unusual inheritance story, Piggy gets her fur up. And does she ever. Trying to ferret out Dan's true intentions, Piggy is far from willing to let him hone his radar onto the now rich Nell.  What ensues is a hysterical story of Dog vs. Man.<br /><br />Ms. Carmichael writes flawless characterization from human to dog, with an excellent flair for humor. The reincarnation element adds a welcome twist to what is already an enthralling storyline. Secondary characters are as in-depth and intregal as the main. A sub-plot involving Dan's mother and her long-lost love adds an unexpected and poignant side to this intriguing tale.<br /><br />Emily Carmichael is a wonderful writer! I missed the first in this series about Lydia/Piggy called FINDING MR. RIGHT, but plan on getting it, soon! I'm sure it will go right next to my other keepers of hers, which include A DIAMOND IN THE RUFF (the second story), and now, GONE TO THE DOGS.<br /><br />For a great read to break up the winter doldrums, I highly recommend GONE TO THE DOGS. Don't miss it!eepers of hers, which include A DIAMOND IN THE RUFF (the second story), and now, GONE TO THE DOGS.<BR> <BR>For a great read to break up the winter doldrums, I highly recommend GONE TO THE DOGS. Don't miss it!	2004-02-11
US	50742388	R1PUQG3TBFFNAR	0373273371	427991979	Staking His Claim : The Men of Mayes County (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1267)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	"Baby" Brother Cal Logan is HOT!	Dawn Gardner and Cal Logan were childhood friends and confidantes until their graduation from high school, which took Dawn to New York City for \\"greener pastures\\". Dawn comes home to visit periodically, and her most recent visit puts her in Cal's arms...and bed. When Dawn returns to New York City, it isn't long before she realizes that Cal gave her more of himself than one night's worth of incredible passion. She returns to Haven to inform Cal of his impending fatherhood, letting him know in no uncertain terms she plans to remain single, stay in New York City, but hopes he'll be a part of their baby's life. Never having known her own father, Dawn wants Cal to take an active role in the child's upbringing -- just on her own terms, and from a distance.<br /><br />Cal Logan is flabbergasted when Dawn Gardner breezes back into town and tells him he's going to be a father. He's furious when she insists that New York City is where she belongs, but still expects Cal to be an involved father.  Cal's been in love with Dawn ever since he can remember, and is convinced the two of them belong together. Can he accept Dawn's decision, or will he fight to keep her in Haven, where he believes she truly belongs?<br /><br />Dawn Gardner is the epitome of a stubborn, lonely, confused woman with serious issues from her past. Cal Logan is just the man to shower her with counter attacks of kindness, conversation, and subtle persuasion -- he knows Dawn's attracted to him sexually, but can he make her fall in love with him? Cal decides to find out, and uses whatever means are necessary. When Dawn unexpectedly loses her job in NYC, and comes back to Haven, Cal is faced with several perfect opportunities for staking his claim on Dawn and their unborn child. He uses every weapon in his arsenol, including sensual persuasion...to put it mildly.<br /><br />Karen Templeton writes real people, not characters. I could easily imagine myself standing in the shadows of Haven, listening, watching, and wanting to join in with everyone and everything. Sometimes I wanted to smack Dawn and tell her, \\"Can't you see he's madly in love with you??\\", but as the story unfolded, I understood her reluctance to commit to any relationship, not just one with Cal. Cal is a wonderful combination of an Alpha/Beta hero. Tough and frustrated one minute; compassionate, loving, and understanding the next (but FAR from wimpy!), he's the \\"total package hero\\", in my opinion.<br /><br />STAKING HIS CLAIM is the third installment in Karen's THE MEN OF MAYES COUNTY series following Cal's older brothers' stories. Ryan (SAVING DR. RYAN), and Hank (FATHERS AND OTHER STRANGERS) return, with their respective families, adding to the humor and emotion of the story. How Karen keeps track of everyone without any obvious hitches, or mix-ups, is a mystery to me! A few plot surprises, twists, and turns will also keep readers turning pages.<br /><br />Luckily for Karen Templeton's faithful fans, she has more books planned for the men and women of Mayes County. I, personally, can't wait to read more about the residents, their antics, and whatever romantic situations pop up!o join in with everyone and everything. Sometimes I wanted to smack Dawn and tell her, \\"Can't you see he's madly in love with you??\\", but as the story unfolded, I understood her reluctance to commit to any relationship, not just one with Cal. Cal is a wonderful combination of an Alpha/Beta hero. Tough and frustrated one minute; compassionate, loving, and understanding the next (but FAR from wimpy!), he's the \\"total package hero\\", in my opinion. <BR> <BR>STAKING HIS CLAIM is the third installment in Karen's THE MEN OF MAYES COUNTY series following Cal's older brothers' stories. Ryan (SAVING DR. RYAN), and Hank (FATHERS AND OTHER STRANGERS) return, with their respective families, adding to the humor and emotion of the story. How Karen keeps track of everyone without any obvious hitches, or mix-ups, is a mystery to me! A few plot surprises, twists, and turns will also keep readers turning pages.<BR> <BR>Luckily for Karen Templeton's faithful fans, she has more books planned for the men and women of Mayes County. I, personally, can't wait to read more about the residents, their antics, and whatever romantic situations pop up!	2004-01-11
US	50742388	R7EPDILE2RH4T	0345453417	554884676	Cry No More	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Non-stop roller coaster ride of emotion...	I admit it - since reading SON OF THE MORNING I haven't been traipsing through the used bookstores looking for Ms. Howard's back list. I did, however, love MR. PERFECT, which came highly recommended, as did this book.<br />This story is something that feasibly could happen in real life (and most assuredly has), although Milla is written as a much stronger mother than I think I could ever be.  Diaz...well, what can be said about such a mysterious, unique hero, except I would certainly feel perfectly safe with him at my back!<br />The subject matter of baby stealing and other horrific goings-on was disturbing, but not off-putting; I read this in about a day and a half.  I'd give the emotions-wringing level about a 10, and although the narrative prose was a tad slow-paced in spots, I didn't find that it detracted from the story...much.<br />All in all, CRY NO MORE is one heck of a book sure to win Linda Howard many awards.	2003-11-30
US	50742388	R1ZPLD2US390OY	0505524899	557403040	George & the Virgin	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Packs both a humorous and emotional punch...	I rarely pick up a book on the basis of a back cover blurb, but this one got me.  My husband and two sons are wrestling fans (ick &lt;g&gt;), and I had to see what a romance author did with a wrestling hero.  Well, she did just fine!<br />From beginning to end GEORGE AND THE VIRGIN is both humorous and emotional on the part of both the hero and heroine.  The &quot;virgins&quot; are a welcome addition to this enchanting tale, as is the dragon.  The author was even able to make me sympathize with the darned over-grown lizard!<br />I love time travel/fantasy romance and this book fits the bill perfectly.  I highly recommend this as a fast-paced, funny, heartwarming, and charming tale about two insecure people who work through their insecurities side by side.<br />Lisa Cach is a welcome addition to the world of sub-genre romance fiction, and I'll be looking for her other books!	2003-11-26
US	50742388	R3RVOH0N3U2D1O	0373218346	807663573	Playing For Keeps	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Longer contemp from this wonderful writer...	A believable premise and endearing characters make PLAYING FOR KEEPS another winner for Karen Templeton. Filled with sexual tension and angst, Karen again writes a tale of ordinary people facing extraordinary odds at finding their happily-ever-after(s). I found the ex-husband's fiancee a tad annoying at times, but understood where she was \\"coming from\\".  And, some of the scenes with the heroine's ex trying to fix her up were hysterical.<br />Karen's talent and skill at creating compelling characters, sparkling dialogue, and realistic scenes, makes PLAYING FOR KEEPS a must read for her legion of fans.	2003-11-26
US	50742388	R8U8XAIV6K7XI	0380731851	733601761	Mystic River	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Great book until the last few chapters.	This is the first book by Dennis Lehane I've read, and was very impressed with his imagery, characterization, and 'real-life' dialogue. The beginning starts out slowly, but the novel heats up before long with faster pacing. It's the end I had problems with. Seemed to me as though Lehane was under pressure to 'just finish it already!' and zipped through the resolution. This is the only book to my knowledge I've read that I truly wanted to chuck at the wall when I turned the last page. : (	2003-11-25
US	50742388	R147CWR8QHL8VL	0446604410	890767881	The Promise of Jenny Jones	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Fresh and original heroine!	As other reviewers have pretty well described the book, I'll just go on to say that I really liked the heroine, Jenny Jones. Fresh and original, far from being a simpering miss, Jenny is probably one of the strongest and least predictable characters to star in a romance novel. This is one of the best, most heartbreaking AND heartwarming romances that I've read in ages.<br />Maggie Osbourne delivers one heck of an intriguing, engrossing story in THE PROMISE OF JENNY JONES.	2003-11-23
US	50742388	RFOV5GWS4GFPX	0060517611	456521827	The Lady in Question (Effington Family & Friends)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Another welcome addition to the Effington family sagas...	After an impulsive marriage to the mysterious and sexy scoundrel, Lord Charles Wilmont, Delia Effington tragically becomes a widow only days after her wedding. Six months later, after a period of mourning with a distant relative, she is back in London at her late husband's townhouse, trying to make amends with her estranged family and to make sense of his holdings. Enter Anthony, Viscount St. Stephens, who is disguised as Delia's elderly butler, Gordon, but is in truth one of London's most eligible bachelors and a spy for the Crown.<br />Lord Wilmont's assignment was to uncover the truth regarding papers supposedly linking a scandal back to Delia's uncle, the Duke of Effington -- papers containing information that could threaten the very government itself. Stephens needs to discover if his close friend, Lord Wilmont met his death because he indeed discovered the papers, all the while protecting Delia from any possible danger to her life. Or does Delia know about the papers, and if so, what action will she take?<br />Lonely and confused, Delia quickly forms an unusual bond with her elderly butler, Gordon. Tony is torn between the necessity of remaining in disguise as Gordon and telling Delia the truth in the hopes that she won't hate him for his deception. Ms. Alexander again creates a cast of sympathetic characters, including visits from Effington family members featured in previous books from this series. Delia's relationship with her supposed elderly butler is both heartwarming and original.<br />THE LADY IN QUESTION is filled with deception, betrayal, dual identities, and high suspense. I admit Ms. Alexander fooled me this time in regard to the identity of the villain. She is an author with exceptional skill and talent at keeping the reader turning pages.<br />If you have read the other books in the Effington series, you won't want to miss this latest addition.	2003-11-22
US	50742388	R28ZLII4Z9XBN0	0380787466	247623444	Forever Enchanted	Books	5	17	20	N	N	A true love story...	FOREVER ENCHANTED is absolutely fantastical. Characters and dialogue sing, and the tenuous, fiery bond that Tristan and Bridin share is unbreakable, regardless of their less than stellar relationship in the past.<br />Maggie Shayne grabs readers' attention from the first page to last in this timeless tale of enemies destined to be lovers. I now have to hunt down the prequel, FAIRYTALE.<br />If you like fantasy romance, I highly recommend this as a book you won't be able to put down!	2003-11-20
US	50742388	R37JUO6APIZW1K	0373227345	180392196	Dr Bodyguard	Books	5	1	3	N	N	I read it in 4 hours!	Jessica Andersen's Intrigue debut is a winner, in my book!  I could NOT put this novel down.  Filled with great characters and a believable plot/storyline, Ms. Anderson is a fresh new voice in Intrigue's line-up of authors. I look forward to reading much more from this skilled and talented author!	2003-11-19
US	50742388	R1AXODP5IQ3VZU	0595224873	10473444	Three Moons Rising	Books	1	5	8	N	N	Reviewing the Reviewers??	I thought this was a forum to review BOOKS, not the REVIEWERS?? Apparently this site for THREE MOONS RISING is deserving of reviewer harassment every time a negative review is posted of this book. Wake up people -- stop negating the reviewers -- everyone is entitled to their own opinion, whether they like this book, or not.	2003-11-13
US	50742388	R1RYPLNO3JAWKU	0743457447	778104040	Hard Lovin' Man	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Lorraine Heath shines in this contemporary debut!	When Kelley Spencer walks into the Hopeful, Texas police station to retrieve her troubled sixteen year-old sister, Madison, the very last person she expects to see is Jack Morgan.  The irony of the previous small town bad boy now being the police chief doesn't escape her. Nine years ago Kelley was Jack's teacher, when he was a senior in high school -- held back a year.  Instant sparks flared between the two, but Kelley swore she wouldn't get involved with a student, concluding it was both morally and professionally wrong.  When Jack graduated however, those sparks turned into a conflagration between the two, but circumstances and a tragic misunderstanding led them to a heartbreaking parting of the ways.  Now, Kelley is an older, wiser thirty-one year-old guardian to her younger sister, while Jack is a twenty-eight year-old ex-soldier and single father.  As old feelings bubble to the surface, Kelley is torn between what she knows is right for her sister, and what she wants for herself.<br /><br />Jack Morgan has never forgotten his former teacher and how she influenced him both academically and emotionally.  If not for her, lord knows where he'd be today, and while he is grateful for that, gratitude is far from what Jack feels when Kelley walks into his police station.  Nine years have passed, and Jack could be the poster boy for the old saying, \\"absence makes the heart grow fonder\\", if his reaction to seeing Kelley is any indication.<br /><br />Kelley and Jack are two very believable characters, both with issues from the past they need to work through together before they can find their own happiness.  Ms. Heath handles the very delicate subject of student and teacher developing a romantic relationship in a poignant, moral, and acceptable way. Kelley's sister Madison is trying to adjust in typical teenage fashion to leaving her friends from Dallas behind, and Jack's son is an adorable, loving, well-adjusted nine-year-old. Jack's late friend's widow, and next door neighbor, Serena Hamilton, will be getting her own well-deserved story in SMOOTH TALKIN' STRANGER coming April 2004.<br /><br />HARD LOVIN' MAN is Ms. Heath's contemporary debut novel.  She makes the transition from historical genre romance smoothly and seamlessly, transferring all of the emotional impact and in-depth characterization she is known for into this outstanding modern day tale.<br /><br />HARD LOVIN' MAN is romance told in inimitable Lorraine Heath style -- perfection from first page to last., Serena Hamilton, will be getting her own well-deserved story in SMOOTH TALKIN' STRANGER coming April 2004.<BR> <BR>HARD LOVIN' MAN is Ms. Heath's contemporary debut novel.  She makes the transition from historical genre romance smoothly and seamlessly, transferring all of the emotional impact and in-depth characterization she is known for into this outstanding modern day tale.<BR> <BR>HARD LOVIN' MAN is romance told in inimitable Lorraine Heath style -- perfection from first page to last.	2003-11-08
US	50742388	R1PPOFMEUKHBGX	0446612332	516487918	Master of the Highlands	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Magic in the Highlands...	Scotland -- 1331<br />Disguised as a nun, strong-willed Madeline Drummond is on a quest for revenge against Sir Bernhard &quot;Silver Leg&quot; Logie, the evil villain who besieged her home and killed her father. Known for leaving a little silver leg at every holy place he visits, Madeline hopes to discover Logie's location by following the trail of silver offerings. While on her journey, Madeline also has to deal with telepathic messages she's receiving from a man full of anger and deep pain.<br />Iain MacLean is the bane of his clan. His brother, Donal, Laird MacLean, commands Iain to do penance for his hot temper which has brought disaster to the clan. Iain must take a family relic to a holy shrine, stopping at every holy place along the way to pray for his sins. Not long into his journey, Iain is overcome by an overwhelming sense of warmth and desire that spreads throughout his body, nearly knocking him off his horse. These episodes occur intermittently as Iain travels, and he quickly becomes frustrated and angry at what he can't control.<br />When Madeline and Iain cross paths during their respective trips, they realize that the strange sensations they have been experiencing can be attributed to the other. For safety's sake, the two now pose as husband and wife -- but how long can they continue this pretense without surrendering to the attraction and desire they feel for each other?<br />MASTER OF THE HIGHLANDS is an intense, emotional read. Madeline tries to appear brave on the outside, while mourning the loss of her father and ancestral home. Iain slowly transforms from a fiery, hot-tempered, self-centered man to one who cares deeply about someone other than himself.<br />MASTER OF THE HIGHLANDS is an interesting tale peopled with realistic characters and with an interesting storyline, albeit slow paced. I was, however, a bit frustrated with the primarily internal conflicts and some overly dramatic inner turmoil experienced by both Madeline and Iain.<br />If you haven't read Ms. Welfonder's books before, I recommend you start with DEVIL IN A KILT and BRIDE OF THE BEAST, before reading MASTER OF THE HIGHLANDS. The first two books will give readers a true taste of Ms. Welfonder's talent and skill at writing delicious Scottish historical romances.you haven't read Ms. Welfonder's books before, I recommend you start with DEVIL IN A KILT and BRIDE OF THE BEAST, before reading MASTER OF THE HIGHLANDS. The first two books will give readers a true taste of Ms. Welfonder's talent and skill at writing delicious Scottish historical romances.	2003-11-03
US	50742388	R3ESZRNRT6OJ10	0595224873	10473444	Three Moons Rising	Books	1	4	6	N	N	Choppy writing and non-existent transitions.	Three Moons Rising has an acceptable premise, but is very poorly executed. Never mind the over-abundance of commas and lousy grammar -- concentrate on the storytelling itself -- that says it all.  The author lets the reader in on every character's thought, and beyond -- what's more commonly known as head-hopping. VERY annoying. Choppy sentences and non-existent transitions continually pull the reader out of the story.	2003-10-21
US	50742388	REIM5BC8MWZYL	0425192113	494637719	Distant Echoes (Berkley Sensation)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Both heartbreaking and heartwarming...	Kathleen Prescott is NOT happy when the school board outvotes her to allow Jesse Spotted Horse access to her inheritance, the Dubois Military Academy, formerly the Dubois Indian School.  Afraid that Mr. Spotted Horse will bring bad publicity to the school, Kathleen is determined to be uncooperative with his research and intention to film a documentary revealing the so-called truth about the Indian schools.  She refuses to believe her ancestors could have abused the Indian children as he claims.  In order to prove her point, Kathleen does finally agree to help Spotted Horse go through the school's records.  Little does she realize how close she and the modern day Lakota warrior will become.<br />Jesse Spotted Horse is a man on a mission.  When the funding comes through to film his documentary about the tragic circumstances of the Indian schools, he naturally picks Dubois Military Academy as the most likely to research.  He has promised his grandmother he'll uncover the truth about what really happened to their ancestors who attended the school. Jesse doesn't expect the prim and proper Kathleen Prescott to be so defensive about her great-great grandfather, the Reverend Providence Divine, founder of Dubois.  Can she be so blind to the facts in front of her that the Indian children were forced into the white man's world, far different from what she's been led to believe?<br />As Jesse sets up a scene in the Dubois barn for the film, having somehow talked Kathleen into participating, a mysterious fire breaks out, and dense smoke surrounds the two. When the smoke clears, they find themselves transported back in time to 1886 Dubois. Will the culture shock and reality of the times pull these two closer together, or tear them further apart? And how will they get back to their own time?<br />Kathleen and Jesse are perfect foils for each other, however, I found Kathleen more suited to Victorian times than modern.  She dresses and acts the part, which makes it fairly easy for her to adjust to the customs of 1886.  Jesse, too, seems to accept his fate fairly easily. I had to take into consideration all of the research he had done, and surmise that he was prepared to suffer indignities in order to survive. Ms. Aitken also creates a secondary cast of characters varying from very naive to very nasty.  Dark secrets, betrayals, and greed abound.<br />I have to say DISTANT ECHOES is one of the more emotional reads I've come across in a very long time.  The quotes at the beginning of each chapter are heartbreaking, as is most of the story.  Ms. Aitken, herself a Native American, writes with an intensity rarely found in most Native American romances. Thankfully, she inserts some humor where needed so as not to bog the reader down with overwhelming sadness.<br />I recommend DISTANT ECHOES as a heartfelt treatise on the injustices served the Native American people during the 1800's.  That said, I will warn readers that this is not an easy tale to read. Be sure to have a box of tissues handy -- especially toward the end.er to adjust to the customs of 1886.  Jesse, too, seems to accept his fate fairly easily. I had to take into consideration all of the research he had done, and surmise that he was prepared to suffer indignities in order to survive. Ms. Aitken also creates a secondary cast of characters varying from very naive to very nasty.  Dark secrets, betrayals, and greed abound.<br />I have to say DISTANT ECHOES is one of the more emotional reads I've come across in a very long time.  The quotes at the beginning of each chapter are heartbreaking, as is most of the story.  Ms. Aitken, herself a Native American, writes with an intensity rarely found in most Native American romances. Thankfully, she inserts some humor where needed so as not to bog the reader down with overwhelming sadness.<br />I recommend DISTANT ECHOES as a heartfelt treatise on the injustices served the Native American people during the 1800's.  That said, I will warn readers that this is not an easy tale to read. Be sure to have a box of tissues handy -- especially toward the end.	2003-10-06
US	50742388	RCZ61JVCX84U6	0440241197	894874279	Small Wonders	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Entertaining escapism...	Leanne Wilson is not known for making the best choices when it comes to romantic relationships.  Her four year-old son's father skipped town as soon as she told him she was pregnant.  Then, Leanne thought she had finally met the love of her life in Cole Jackson -- until he conned almost the whole town of Bethlehem into a nonexistent investment, and took off with all of their money.  It doesn't matter to Leanne that he eventually repaid everyone.  A thief is a thief, in her book.  She'll also never forgive him for leaving his twelve year-old son behind, even though she loves the boy like her own.  Now Cole is back in town, sentenced to five thousand hours of community service as punishment.  But, just who's being punished here -- Leanne or Cole?<br />Cole Jackson knows what he is, and figures it's too late to change. He never dreamed he'd end up back in the small town where the majority of the residents hate him.  All Cole wants is to serve his jail time and get the heck out of there. Instead, he gets the shock of his life when the judge sentences him to almost two and a half years of community service.  Now he'll have to live across the street from Leanne Wilson, the woman he loved as much as a man like him could, and the son he left behind.  Cole would much rather be behind bars!<br />I found the first few chapters of SMALL WONDERS a tad annoying with Cole's constant inner self-loathing, and Leanne's constant inner pity parties.  Whenever they met on the street the two harped at each unmercifully.  But, as the story continued, and the two really started to communicate, I was glad I persevered.  Cole is one of the most unlikely of heroes, Leanne almost too good to be true, but as the story unfolds, they work well together.<br />This is the first of Marilyn Pappano's books I've read, and I'm thinking of tracking down the rest of the books in this series.  Several surprise twists and turns held my attention, and a bit of a paranormal twist added some sparks to the story.<br />Overall, I recommend SMALL WONDERS as an enjoyable, mostly light read with intriguing characters.  If you're looking for an entertaining, hometown type of romance, this is the book for you.tory.<br />Overall, I recommend SMALL WONDERS as an enjoyable, mostly light read with intriguing characters.  If you're looking for an entertaining, hometown type of romance, this is the book for you.	2003-10-06
US	50742388	R35RVLZKI8P3DJ	0425192024	599649259	A Garden in the Rain (Macleod Family)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Another keeper by Lynn Kurland!	Betrayed by her now ex-fiance, Bentley Douglas Taylor III, Madelyn Phillips embarks on what would have been their honeymoon trip to Scotland, and what has always been her idea of a dream vacation.  She has problems from the start, not the least of which is her creep of an ex following her, trying to get Madelyn back.  He steals her luggage, her violin, and tries to thwart every move she makes without him.  Then he doesn't understand why she isn't falling all over him!  After all, the man fired her, then broke off their engagement.  Bentley has one giant ego, and Madelyn has no intention of feeding into it anymore.  Especially since he's also stolen her reservation at the quaint Scottish hotel she planned to stay in.<br />After a few rocky meetings, Patrick MacLeod, brother to Jamie MacLeod from A DANCE THROUGH TIME, becomes Madelyn's reluctant champion.  He has no time for rescuing modern-day damsels in distress, but something inexplicable keeps pulling him closer to Madelyn. The more time they spend together, the less he dwells on his haunted past.<br />A GARDEN IN THE RAIN is fabulous!  Ms. Kurland works her magic by letting Madelyn and Patrick develop a believable relationship together.  No love at first sight, bed hopping here. Not that there's anything wrong with that -- sometimes. &lt;g&gt;  All characters are integral to the story, whether they're good guys or bad, and it was a pleasure to revisit with Jamie, his wife Elizabeth, and the rest of the MacLeod clan.  The bantering and swordplay between them all is a hoot, and Madelyn's reaction is priceless the first time she sees Jamie and Patrick practice with their swords.<br />This wonderful, tender, and emotional story flows along seamlessly and smoothly, never skipping a beat. The intensity of the time travel scene is nearly heartbreaking, but shows both Madelyn's and Patrick's true colors, making each stronger and more aware of the deep feelings that have been developing between them.<br />This is classic writing from Lynn Kurland and I couldn't put it down.  I highly recommend A GARDEN IN THE RAIN as one of Ms. Kurland's best books to date, but admit I'll always have a special place in my heart for the first book of hers that I read, STARDUST OF YESTERDAY.<br />If you've never read a Kurland -- get thee to a bookstore post haste!writing from Lynn Kurland and I couldn't put it down.  I highly recommend A GARDEN IN THE RAIN as one of Ms. Kurland's best books to date, but admit I'll always have a special place in my heart for the first book of hers that I read, STARDUST OF YESTERDAY.<br />If you've never read a Kurland -- get thee to a bookstore post haste!	2003-10-01
US	50742388	R2ULU58B1DU8SE	1591050782	418406842	The Legend of Ron Añejo	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Highly recommended action/adventure/comedy!	Ever wonder what it would be like to just pack it all in and sail the seven seas -- or at least the Caribbean? Well, wonder no more. Ed Teja has written a novel about doing just that. And you might have second or fourth thoughts about doing it<br />yourself! That said, however, I can guarantee you'll laugh out loud while reading about the antics of our anonymous narrator and his &quot;boss&quot;, Ron Anejo -- a legend in his own mind.<br />THE LEGEND OF RON ANEJO is told from the point of view of a narrator we never fully meet &quot;in person&quot;. The author merely shares the story, giving us glimpses of our hero's physique and an in-depth look into his mind, all the while keeping his<br />name a secret (no easy feat, I imagine, while writing). It works.<br />Characterization is wholly developed from the main characters on down to Ron's boat, the Meinn Gott. Yes, the boat takes on a life of her own, and in sometimes typical female fashion, plays hard to get. The adventures they experience, Ron Anejo's seemingly endless optimistic outlook on life -- even with Murphy's Law working overtime against him -- are all fodder for an exciting, laugh out loud read. Our narrator's thoughts and witty dialogue are exceptionally insightful.<br />For an eye-opening and thoroughly delightful read told entirely from the male psyche, don't miss THE LEGEND OF RON ANEJO. As a female reader, I was glad to have the opportunity to see what makes some men tick -- and was pleasantly surprised.	2003-09-25
US	50742388	R1Z4C5YCRS8LC7	159105141X	728515173	The King's Gold	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Great read!	I love Linda Bleser's writing!  This is a fast-paced story with an entertaining twist on the Rumplestiltskin fairy tale.  Filled with humor and in-depth characterization, I highly recommend this charming romance to all readers.	2003-09-21
US	50742388	R2DBC1S11KP09E	159105236X	356888472	The Starry Child	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Beautiful imagery, wonderful characters, magical story!	Rainey is a woman who has been through hell and back; her eight year-old daughter, Sasha, is her saving grace. Rainey has lost her husband in a plane crash, and Sasha now exhibits strange speech and dangerous behavior.<br />After Rainey's older neighbor, Emma, hears Sasha speaking in the \\"old language\\" of Gaelic on a video tape, she recommends that Rainey get in touch with linguistics professor, Matt MacInnes.  What Matt discovers about Sasha, and how it will turn their lives around, is the spellbinding part!<br />Lynn Hanna sure knows how to weave a spellbinding, beautiful tale of romance, Scottish magic, and mystery. The cover of the new Novel Books edition is just gorgeous, too.  But, it's what's between the covers that will hook you to this incredible storyteller.<br />THE STARRY CHILD is a definite keeper for me, and I can't wait to read the other books in this series.	2003-09-16
US	50742388	R6KR0YVTZGEU2	0373273142	848751490	Fathers And Other Strangers : The Men Of Mayes County (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1244)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Karen Templeton just keeps getting better!	Haven, Oklahoma -- present day<br />Jenna Stanton has a secret, and it's a biggie. An entry in her late sister's diary reveals the name of the man who fathered Jenna's niece. Does Jenna have the nerve to meet and check out the man, and to inform him he has a daughter? On the pretense of researching her latest mystery novel, she checks herself and Blair into the motel he owns. Even though Jenna thinks that Hank Logan has the right to know about his daughter, can he be the father that Blair needs, or will he reject her the same way he did her mother -- as the diary implies. Jenna hopes their month long stay at the motel will give her a chance to find out.<br />Former cop Hank Logan wants nothing more than to renovate and run his motel. Since the tragic death of his fianc&eacute;e three years ago, he doesn't want any complications or commitments. When Jenna Stanton and her niece, Blair, check in, however, he gets just what he doesn't want -- complications by the bucketful. Jenna claims she's there to research a new mystery novel she's writing. After a while, Hank doesn't buy it, and neither does Blair, seeing as how Jenna doesn't travel too far away from the motel.<br />Oh, what a tangled web we weave...<br />Hank Logan is a tough nut to crack, one of Ms. Templeton's most &quot;alpha&quot; males to date, and she does a wonderful job with him. Jenna may have her own agenda, and Blair may not be her biological child, but Jenna is as protective as a mother bear with her cub where Blair's concerned. All three of these characters, as well as the well-developed secondary characters, create mischief and mayhem that combine to create a tender, poignant family tale. Hank Logan doesn't stand a chance against Jenna, Blair, and his family and friends as they try to break down the wall around his heart.<br />Karen Templeton's talent and skill at writing family stories shines again in this tale about secrets and lies, misunderstandings and misconceptions. The second book of The Men of Mayes County, FATHERS AND OTHER STRANGERS begins where SAVING DR. RYAN ended. Next up is younger brother Cal's story, and I can't wait!es County, FATHERS AND OTHER STRANGERS begins where SAVING DR. RYAN ended. Next up is younger brother Cal's story, and I can't wait!	2003-09-06
US	50742388	R2AKOO7R1Q7A3X	059525425X	655995525	Waking Walt	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Incredibly written, believable tall tale...	What if you were one of the world's most revered, imaginative, and business-savvy people? Then, imagine resting on death's doorstep, and being cryogenically suspended in the 1960's, when this idea was so much science fiction...but the rest of the world thinks you're dead and buried. What happens forty years later when a cure for your illness is found? WAKING WALT is what happens. And, does it ever.<br />The story in and of itself is spellbinding, but the true meat of this novel is the people. How on earth Mr. Pontius kept track of all of these extraordinary characters is beyond me, but he does so without skipping a beat, creating a cast of individuals easily recognizable from their body language and dialogue, alone. Most of them elderly, each still changes and grows, within what is called the Circle -- a select few of Walt Disney's closest friends and associates. When one dies, another must replace him. Enter poor Harry Poole, the nephew of  recently deceased member, Arthur Nolan. One of the more fumbling<br />and engaging characters, Harry is let in on the Circle's secret, and is hard pressed to keep from committing the men to the old<br />folks'loony bin; however, since he has nothing too pressing going on in his life right now, he agrees to join them. Oh, little does Harry know how his life will drastically change from that moment on.<br />The basic premise of the story is to wake up Walt Disney from cryonic suspension in order to halt a ruthless corporate raider's attempt to take over The Disney Company. What ensues is a fast-paced race against time for the Circle and all involved. Written with high panache, WAKING WALT is rich in the pitfalls of greed; laced with humor, chills, thrills, murder, and human drama. I defy anyone to put this book down once they start reading it.<br />If you favor intense, gritty, passionate novels that don't let up, WAKING WALT is the book for you. I look forward to reading much more from this talented spinner of a darn good tall tale!!	2003-08-07
US	50742388	R2BQWIL1IZB8NN	042519101X	85026273	Becoming Georgia (Berkley Sensation)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Not as well done as her romance comedies, IMO....	1870 -- Arizona and Chicago, Illinois<br />Georgia \\"Georgie\\" Kennedy traveled all over the western states with her wanderlust-afflicted father, until he decided to finally settle down in a small Arizona mining town. Since her father's death, Georgie still works the gold mines, and acts more like a man than a woman.  She wears coveralls and flannel shirts, can shoot, arm-wrestle, and take down Apaches with the best of them.  After selling one of her two mining claims to longtime friend, Cooper \\"Cougar\\" Barnes, a lawyer appears in town to tell Georgie that the claims weren't hers to sell -- her grandfather owns them.  Her grandfather also wants her to come to Chicago so that he can make amends for the hard life she's had to lead.  With no choice but to try to straighten out the mess with the claim, Georgie goes to Chicago.  What she finds there is a stubborn old man bent on turning her into a lady, and marrying her off to the most eligible bachelor in the city.  He proposes a deal -- Georgie will get her claims back if she stays for at least a year, and shows true effort in becoming a lady.  And so, Georgie, the wildcat, must now become Georgia, the lady.<br />Cougar Barnes is one unhappy man.  Left behind while Georgie goes off to dally in Chicago, he decides to follow and keep an eye on her -- strictly to protect his claim, he keeps telling himself.  What he finds is an astounding and eye-opening change in Georgie, making him reevaluate his reasons  for being there.  Cougar has always had feelings for Georgie, but now that he's confronted with the lady she's become, not to mention a rival, and an old man who wants him out of Georgie's life, Cougar realizes just how deeply those feelings go.  He concocts a plan to take Georgie back to Arizona before she does anything rash, like marrying someone else.  What he doesn't bargain on is the fact that Georgia is still \\"Georgie\\" deep down inside, and she's not about to let him take control of her life.<br />BECOMING GEORGIA is an entertaining read, rich in historical detail, and sparkling dialogue. Georgie's reaction, however, to seeing Cougar, and the betrayal she feels, didn't ring true, nor did her constant harping about him just wanting her for her gold.  Otherwise, humorous scenes abound while Georgie is being \\"made\\" into a lady, and her companion in Chicago, Elizabeth, is a wonderful, endearing character.<br />Overall, BECOMING GEORGIA, is a fast-paced story with detailed descriptions of setting and how hard life was in the mining towns of 1870.  Fans of Emily Carmichael's modern day romantic comedies might be a bit disappointed in her foray into historical romance, but whichever era you prefer, Ms. Carmichael is a talented writer.is an entertaining read, rich in historical detail, and sparkling dialogue. Georgie's reaction, however, to seeing Cougar, and the betrayal she feels, didn't ring true, nor did her constant harping about him just wanting her for her gold.  Otherwise, humorous scenes abound while Georgie is being \\"made\\" into a lady, and her companion in Chicago, Elizabeth, is a wonderful, endearing character.<br />Overall, BECOMING GEORGIA, is a fast-paced story with detailed descriptions of setting and how hard life was in the mining towns of 1870.  Fans of Emily Carmichael's modern day romantic comedies might be a bit disappointed in her foray into historical romance, but whichever era you prefer, Ms. Carmichael is a talented writer.	2003-08-02
US	50742388	R1S3T8DM7RRQLH	0451209001	244306309	Prospero's Daughter (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Nancy Butler amazes...	Miranda Runyan is wasting away in her Palfry cousins' home, helpless, hopeless, and numb after a carriage accident that severely crippled her, and took the life of her parents three years ago.  She thinks she's a monster, severely scarred (no mirrors are allowed near her), as none of her remaining family has visited her in the past three years, leaving her to rusticate in a private room of their home, tended only by one sour, dour, maid and a sympathetic, caring older woman.<br />Left alone in an out-of-the-way garden, in her Bath chair one morning, while the younger, full-of-attitude maid is off on a clandistine meeting with a man in the Palfry's employ, Miranda is mortified to be found out by a guest of her cousin's.<br />Morgan Pearce can't believe that someone has simply walked off and left this fascinating, mysterious woman alone to her own devices.  Pushing her chair along on a brief walk, and trying to strike up a converstation with her, Morgan decides to make Miranda his next \\"project\\".  Little does he expect that she will turn his feelings, and views upon life upside down.<br />Nancy Butler writes with such emotional impact, and in-depth characterization, that she always pulls the reader into her stories, making you turn pages in impatient anticipation. Bits of welcome humor, and sparkling dialogue, off-set the human drama.<br />This is a true love story, IMO, and one of her very best.  It's no wonder that Ms. Butler is an award winning, and most beloved author of the traditional Regency genre.<br />Don't miss this enthralling, heart-stirring tale!	2003-07-11
US	50742388	R5NSEYUFSDB33	0553586130	940788275	7 Days and 7 Nights	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Wonderfully witty debut!!	Radio personality and relationship expert, Dr. Olivia Moore is the host of Liv Live, in direct competition with Guy Talk, \\"where a guy can be a guy\\", hosted by the sexy, devil-may-care, bachelor-of-the-year, Matt Ransom. No one but Olivia and Matt knows that they had a short-lived \\"love 'em and leave 'em\\" relationship eight years ago. Olivia hopes to keep that fact a secret, as she wasn't the one who called an end to their affair, and she knows Matt doesn't want it to go public, either.<br />Thrown together for promotional and charity purposes in the \\"reality show from hell,\\" Olivia and Matt must stay together in a small apartment for a full week.  Alone. Together.  And in front of millions of people via web cam, while they do their respective radio shows...and try to ignore the fact that they still have a magnetic and powerful attraction to each other.  Sexual tension and deeper feelings run high, but neither is willing to take the first step and admit it.  The only good thing they see coming out of this stunt is all of the donations of food and money it's garnering a local charity.<br />Despite their past history, they \\"help\\" a couple having prenuptial woes -- she wants marriage, he likes the way things have been for the past three years and doesn't want to ruin it with a marriage certificate.  What ensues both on air, and off, between all of the parties is hilarious and angst-filled by turns.  Will either of the couples have their happy ending?<br />7 DAYS & 7 NIGHTS is the delightfully funny, yet very emotional, debut contemporary romance by Wendy Wax.  The bickering and bantering dialogue between Olivia and Matt is delicious, as are their \\"on air\\" personalities.  This is a fast paced and intriguing story, guaranteed to keep you turning pages long into the night.<br />I loved this book!  Ms. Wax is a fresh and original voice in romance fiction, and her experience in radio makes the characters and their shows realistic. I can't praise all of the aspects of this book highly enough.  If you're looking for comedy, drama, emotion, and everything in between, you won't want to miss this exciting debut novel.book highly enough.  If you're looking for comedy, drama, emotion, and everything in between, you won't want to miss this exciting debut novel.	2003-07-01
US	50742388	RR8BOQMZJJO6V	0595224873	10473444	Three Moons Rising	Books	1	4	4	N	N	Back to the drawing board --	THREE MOONS RISING revolves around mysterious interlocking necklaces, blue water cats, barely believable fictional planets, and one man's determination to make \\"his\\" woman bend to his ways at any cost. If this is romance, give me a good murder mystery any day!<br />When scenes involve both the hero and heroine together, their points of view shift back and forth so often, I felt like I was watching a tennis match.  The hero also has no concept of romance, constantly trying to force himself upon the heroine, who can't understand why she has such a magnetic attraction to him.  I couldn't understand it either.<br />The book needs much more editing than it obviously was given.  With more in-depth and believable, sympathetic characterization, this might have been at least a readable story.  Smoother transitions between chapters and scene breaks are also needed. As it stands now, it didn't work for me on any level.	2003-07-01
US	50742388	R33LH1YR5FVFF2	0425190927	622422263	The Wife Test	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Betina Krahn RULES!!	England and France during King Edward's reign<br />Eighteen year-old Chloe of Guibray, a foundling left on the steps of the French Convent of the Brides of Virtue as an infant, is determined to uncover her parentage.  When she overhears the abbess talking about her, mentioning that her name is Gilbert and that her \\"people\\" are from England, Chloe concocts a plan to travel there.  She poses as a nun and sneaks away with the four young orphaned women destined to be exchanged and married to English nobles, as ransom for their adopted father, the French Earl of Avalon.  Chloe almost regrets her decision when she continuously butts heads with their escort, Sir Hugh of Sennett.  When their party is ambushed and attacked on their way to the ship, Hugh devises a funny, yet intriguing plan to better disguise the enticing women in the hope of keeping them from further harm.<br />Sir Hugh of Sennett, errand boy to King Edward, wants nothing more than to return to the monastery where he was raised and take his vows. Hugh doesn't count on the exquisite, spirited Chloe, who appears to be on this earth to make a mockery of his determination to preserve his bachelorhood.  He swears escorting the five women to England for King Edward will be the last of his errands.  Not only must he suffer the long journey from France in the company of these beautiful women, he must also keep his randy men in line.  Feeling severely put-upon by the time they reach the king, Hugh is relieved that the trip has ended without fatalities, kidnappings, or the loss of any maiden's virtue. Needless to say, Hugh is furious when the king selects him to help Lady Chloe carry out the wife tests she has devised for the brides and their prospective grooms.<br />With much in common, although neither will admit it to the other, Hugh and Chloe suffer each other's company while conducting the wife tests.  Human drama and emotion, touched with humor and vivid details, make their developing relationship sparkle in many ways.  As all of the couples are thrown together in various situations, it becomes quite clear who is attracted to whom, leaving Hugh and Chloe on the sidelines to tease and test each other.  Both get much more than they bargain for.<br />THE WIFE TEST is a story of power, betrayal, and the strength of love and loyalty.  Hugh and Chloe shine as the main characters, and secondary characters are just as intriguing and integral to this exceptional tale. The relationships between Chloe and the other maidens is tender, heartwarming, and sometimes heartbreaking.  Several twists, turns, surprises, and subplots make for a fast-paced story that is impossible to put down.<br />I recommend THE WIFE TEST as one of Betina Krahn's most emotional, romantic, and enthralling books to date.  This is proof positive why Ms. Krahn is one of the romance fiction genre's most beloved authors in print.  Bravo, Ms. Krahn!ny ways.  As all of the couples are thrown together in various situations, it becomes quite clear who is attracted to whom, leaving Hugh and Chloe on the sidelines to tease and test each other.  Both get much more than they bargain for.<br />THE WIFE TEST is a story of power, betrayal, and the strength of love and loyalty.  Hugh and Chloe shine as the main characters, and secondary characters are just as intriguing and integral to this exceptional tale. The relationships between Chloe and the other maidens is tender, heartwarming, and sometimes heartbreaking.  Several twists, turns, surprises, and subplots make for a fast-paced story that is impossible to put down. <br />I recommend THE WIFE TEST as one of Betina Krahn's most emotional, romantic, and enthralling books to date.  This is proof positive why Ms. Krahn is one of the romance fiction genre's most beloved authors in print.  Bravo, Ms. Krahn!	2003-07-01
US	50742388	R2QV7D53HUU5RB	1591051932	532857844	Lady of the Two Lands	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Ms. Delisi is a star on the rise!	Hattie Williams is pulled back in time to ancient Egypt to become the first woman Pharoah.  Hattie, however, has no idea how to rule a country -- she's an artist from Chicago who had been working on illustrations of Hatshepsut, the woman who SHOULD have been Pharoah. Therein lies the mystery and magic of LADY OF THE TWO LANDS.<br />Ms. Delisi writes an absolutely intriguing, enthralling, fast-paced read that will appeal to readers of all genres.  Her characters are incredibly in-depth, the storyline is unique, and dialogue sings.  Add to that a heartwarming and tender love story, and this is a book that you simply can't put down.<br />Not familiar with ancient Egyptian history, I was still hooked immediately, and look forward to whatever Ms. Delisi has coming next.<br />I highly recommend LADY OF THE TWO LANDS as a wonderful read and a definite keeper!	2003-06-27
US	50742388	RQOGQKOCY2E2I	0505524589	52974576	The Shadowing (Candleglow)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Chilling and intense!	THE SHADOWING is all a reader could want in a Gothic romance and more.  Of course, I LOVE \\"woo-woo\\" (better known as paranormal &lt;g>) stories, and this is one of the best, IMO.<br />Strong characterization, believable and sympathetic characters, a fresh and original storyline, all kept me reading at break-neck speed.<br />Thank you for a wonderful book, Ms. Overfield.  Write on!!	2003-06-06
US	50742388	R1HNHOLX8SHJC8	0373691254	995088165	The Chocolate Seduction  (Sex & Candy)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Good enough to eat *grin*	As Harriet did such a fine job syponsizing this story, I'll just add that this is yet another fine example of Carrie Alexander's talent, and I can't wait to read MacKenzie's story!<br />Keep on writin', Carrie! : )	2003-06-06
US	50742388	R3PHMOXI9YVKR1	0380817438	645876548	Love with a Scandalous Lord (Daughters of Fortune)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Another Heath destined for the keeper shelf....	Lydia Westland is living her dream, albeit at the expense of her step-grandfather's  impending death.  Lydia is in London, her stepfather's homeland, a far cry from her home in Fortune, Texas.  She's rather overwhelmed by all of the pomp and circumstance, but is bound and determined to enter society and find a suitable, respectable husband.  Lydia is immediately intrigued and attracted to her stepfather's half-brother, Rhys Rhodes.  When Rhys agrees to teach Lydia all the rules of living among the ton, neither expects the lessons will affect their hearts, as well as their futures.<br />Rhys Rhodes does not consider himself husband material. Circumstances from the past, a guilty conscience, and the fact that he has very strong feelings for Lydia keep Rhys in constant turmoil.  Ten years older and much more worldly than Lydia, he decides the best thing he can do is find her a suitable husband.  When his father dies and Lydia's family returns home, Rhys sets out to do just that. After all, as the new Duke of Harrington, his title should carry weight in introducing her to society.  Never having known love, Rhys is convinced that Lydia will be much happier with someone else than she could ever be with him.<br />I was at first put off by Rhys, who seemed more of a cad than hero with his constant lusting after Lydia, but as the story unfolded, I found him to be one of Ms. Heath's most tormented, tortured, and sympathetic heroes to date.  Ms. Heath slowly peels away layer after layer, making for a slower paced book than what we are used to from her, but it works extremely well for this story.  I found myself almost in tears in a number of places toward the middle and end.  Lydia Westland, the stepdaughter of Grayson Rhodes, from A ROGUE IN TEXAS, has one foot in childhood, the other in adulthood.  When it comes to fighting for her man, however, Lydia is all woman.<br />LOVE WITH A SCANDALOUS LORD is very sensual, filled with depth of emotion and characterization.  I highly recommend this latest offering from Lorraine Heath as another of her powerful stories destined for the keeper shelf.recommend this latest offering from Lorraine Heath as another of her powerful stories destined for the keeper shelf.	2003-05-29
US	50742388	RO39BS6BJFUUN	193174226X	354240229	Brakos@Twilight.com	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Unique Vampire Romance...	Roger Wannamaker is in limbo. Half man, half vampire, Roger longs to be one or the other -- preferably full vampire. When he wanders into an online role-playing chat room, Roger aka Brakos, King of the Vampires, feels as though he has come home. Here are like minded souls that include a gypsy queen named Firenza. Can this be the woman destined to be HIS queen?<br />Linda Bleser pens an exceptional tale of romance with endearing characters, drama, and a touch of humor.<br />CSArpin, reviewer	2003-05-04
US	50742388	R2QVH1TZZSE8Y6	0786247045	679724694	Five Star Expressions - The Guardian of the Amulets	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Jessica Anderson is a shining new star in romance fiction!	Christine Finch aka Dewdrop, has left a world of pain and betrayal behind for eight years.  She is now focused on raising her eight year old daughter, Kayla, and making a living at her candle shop in the small town of Farewell, on Cape Cod, Massachusetts.  But Dewdrop has a secret, and it involves three mysterious amulets and a telepathic lion.<br />When Michael Finch comes to the end of his eight year quest to find his bride, Christine, he is stunned to find out that she's dead.  He's even more stunned to walk into a small candle shop and find her alive.  What Michael discovers about the past eight years and what really happened after Christine disappeared on their wedding night, will test his strength, intellect and trust.<br />Can these two return the amulets to their rightful owner and heal the pain from the past, learning to again trust each other?<br />Superb characterization, a unique and fast-paced storyline, and flawless writing combine to make THE GUARDIANS OF THE AMULET one heck of a read.  I look forward to reading more from this amazing author!	2003-05-02
US	50742388	RX8C7CRE2NN08	0743453069	169509622	Charming the Highlander (Highlander Trilogy)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Incredible debut novel!	Comparible to other popular, best-selling paranormal/time travel romance authors, Janet Chapman is an exciting new voice in romance genre fiction!<br />From first page to last, CHARMING THE HIGHLANDER is a delight. As someone else mentioned, this book has it all - exceptional characterization and storyline, emotional depth and just downright GOOD writing - debut author, Janet Chapman is already a master at her craft.<br />I can't wait to read the other books in this series!	2003-04-12
US	50742388	RN73GXGTPIVCO	0060001453	686738756	Love With the Proper Husband	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Fast-paced and original, this is NOT to be missed!	Gwendolyn Townsend's fate was sealed at the age of sixteen when an inept solicitor gave her false information about her deceased father's finances. She traveled to America to make her way in the world, finally finding employment as a governess.  Gwendolyn was then forced to move from home to home when her male employers made inappropriate advances toward her. Now, at age twenty-one, Gwendolyn has received a summons and ticket home to London from the senior solicitor of her late father's estate, who has spent years trying to locate her.  She can't imagine what he wants, but she jumps at the chance to return to her home country.  What Gwendolyn learns upon her arrival is nothing less than astonishing, and turns her world upside down...yet again.<br />Marcus Holcroft, the eighth Earl of Pennington, has recently received the biggest upset in his life.  He has just been told that he must get married before his thirtieth birthday in three months -- to a woman he has never met.  Apparently before his death, his father and Gwendolyn Townsend's sealed the couple's futures, unbeknownst to either of them. If Marcus doesn't marry Gwendolyn, he will lose his considerable fortune and his estate.  Because he is honorable, and responsible for his mother's and tenants' well-being, Marcus sees no way out.  When he meets the irrepressible Gwendolyn, Marcus decides that marriage might not be such an abhorrent state as he originally thought.<br />Victoria Alexander will delight readers with her delectable hero, independent and empathetic heroine, and all manner of characters in between.  To explain further would be to reveal too many secrets and ruin the story, but suffice it to say that these are some of Ms. Alexander's most interesting and endearing characters to date.<br />Fast paced and original, with sparkling, witty dialogue, and both emotional and humorous scenes, LOVE WITH THE PROPER HUSBAND kept this reviewer enthralled from beginning to end.  Brief cameo appearances by characters of Ms. Alexander's \\"Effington\\" series get the ball rolling with their concern about future generations by forming the Ladies' Society for the Betterment of the Future of Britain, which had me chuckling through the very first pages.  The society is nothing more than a scheme to marry off their single female and male offspring before they either gather dust upon the shelves as spinsters, or are too old to procreate.<br />Reading the other books in the series is not imperative to understand what is happening in this one, but I recommend them all as keepers.  For more information on Ms. Alexander's novels, visit her website at:  [local website]<br />LOVE WITH THE PROPER HUSBAND shines as one of Ms. Alexander's best books to date.  I can't wait to read what's next!acters of Ms. Alexander's \\"Effington\\" series get the ball rolling with their concern about future generations by forming the Ladies' Society for the Betterment of the Future of Britain, which had me chuckling through the very first pages.  The society is nothing more than a scheme to marry off their single female and male offspring before they either gather dust upon the shelves as spinsters, or are too old to procreate.  <br />Reading the other books in the series is not imperative to understand what is happening in this one, but I recommend them all as keepers.  For more information on Ms. Alexander's novels, visit her website at:  [local website]<br />LOVE WITH THE PROPER HUSBAND shines as one of Ms. Alexander's best books to date.  I can't wait to read what's next!	2003-03-25
US	50742388	R3OF8WMC9ZY5E7	0373272774	711749396	Saving Dr. Ryan : The Men of Mayes County (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1207)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Trademark Templeton!	The last thing that pregnant widow Maddie Kincaid expected was to go into labor while driving through the small town of Haven, Oklahoma.  Against her better judgment, Maddie sends her two small children a short walk back to the house where she had noticed a doctor's sign hanging out front.<br />The last thing Dr. Ryan Logan expects to see at his door are two small, bedraggled children begging for him to help their mother, who is about to deliver a baby in their car.  Settling the kids in his house, Ryan grabs his medical bag and races to Maddie's side.<br />The birth of a beautiful baby girl, confusion, and compassion ensue when Ryan gets Maddie back to his house.  Ryan offers to take the little family in until Maddie and the baby are strong enough to leave. When he discovers that they have no money and no place to go, Ryan then offers Maddie the use of his home until she can get on her feet.  Maddie will only agree if Ryan hires her on as his much needed office assistant.  Let the fun begin!<br />It doesn't take long for Maddie and her children to worm their way into Ryan's heart -- whether he wants to admit it or not.  Having had a fairly recent disastrous relationship, Ryan is determined to remain single.  He also doesn't think its fair to expect any woman, let alone three small children, to share his lonely life of country doctor.  Maddie is determined to change his mind.<br />SAVING DR. RYAN is fast paced from the first page to the last, and filled with charming characters and strong emotion.  Maddie and Ryan must struggle through some hefty emotional baggage, and bury their pasts, in order to get on with their futures.  The children, and Maddie's crotchety elderly uncle-by-marriage, are a delight, and Ryan's two brothers beg for their own stories.  Ms. Templeton creates lifelike dialogue and narrative that sings; the characters also speak to the reader, not just the other characters, in a unique way that is one of Ms. Templeton's writing trademarks.<br />SAVING DR. RYAN is the start of a new series from SIM --The Men of Mayes County -- and, in my opinion, is a strong candidate for the Romance Writers of America's coveted RITA award.  Rumor has it that Ryan's brother Hank's story is next.  I can't wait!<br />SAVING DR. RYAN is the start of a new series from SIM --The Men of Mayes County -- and, in my opinion, is a strong candidate for the Romance Writers of America's coveted RITA award.   Rumor has it that Ryan's brother Hank's story is next.   I can't wait!	2003-03-13
US	50742388	R3Q9V1O2O8T52	0803495749	835803873	Way Out West (Avalon Romance)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Yeehaw! : )	City girl Callie Sumner is running -- far away from boyfriends who consider her only trophy and doormat material.  When she hears about the fantasy vacation spot, Way Out West, Callie jumps at the chance to escape from her problems and applies for work as a saloon girl.  Little does she know she's jumping from the fry pan into the fire.<br />For a week at a time, Rand escapes from the corporate rat race and becomes \\"himself\\" at Way Out West.  He plays the role of a gambler, enjoying the brief respite of anonymity and wide open spaces.  When he meets Callie, Rand's comfort zone explodes into nothingness, and he finds himself falling head over heels for the sassy saloon girl.<br />Can Callie and Rand trust their instincts, share their secrets, and become a couple?  Only time, and the capture of whomever is trying to ruin WAY OUT WEST, will tell.<br />Following on the heels of her debut novel, KALEIDOSCOPE, Ms. Marriott again captures readers' hearts with her charming characters and unique storyline.  For a fast-paced, creative, mysterious, and delightful romance read, don't miss WAY OUT WEST. I look forward to reading more of Ms. Marriott's exhilarating novels.	2003-03-13
US	50742388	RXAHZ8RFFXJRB	0440237599	162029379	Hot Pursuit	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Wild ride!	Bestselling mystery writer Taylor O'Toole likes to get into her work.  So much, so, that when her friend asks her to do a little surveillance on her boyfriend, Taylor agrees.  Little does she know just how much trouble she's courting until a climbing experiment goes wrong, and both Taylor and her friend are almost killed.  While recovering from that little incident, Taylor follows the boyfriend into a convenience store and nearly gets herself killed.  Her sexy new neighbor, Jack Broussard, saves the day, but after a few other coincidental meetings occur, she thinks there's a lot more to this hunk than just being a single guy who makes killer lasagna.<br />Navy SEAL Jack Broussard is going crazy trying to protect mystery writer Taylor O'Toole.  He has no choice but to stick to her like glue, however, because she could be the key in a search for a missing Navy biochemist.  Trying to keep Taylor in his sights is like trying to nail jello to a tree -- until an attempt on Taylor's life makes her realize that she is indeed in serious danger.  The question is, why?  Only Jack knows, and because this is a top secret mission, he's not telling.<br />Both strong and stubborn characters, Taylor and Jack butt heads at every turn.  Their scenes together ran the gamut from humorous to sexy to dangerous without a boring moment in between.  The villain is the epitome of evil, and I gasped at some of the descriptions of his nasty doings.  HOT PURSUIT revisits characters from MY SPY, which I haven't yet read, but certainly look forward to.<br />HOT PURSUIT is one wild ride I'm glad I didn't miss, and I look forward to the continuing story of Taylor and Jack in Ms. Skye's next novel.	2003-02-20
US	50742388	RX7LY6SMFTY57	0451208021	516951460	The Marriage Campaign (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Lovely traditional Regency romance....	Robert Symington, the new Marquess of Elston, is in a bind.  A codicil to his father's will orders Elston to choose a bride from a list of twenty young ladies, within a year's time, or suffer unnamed consequences. As Lord Elston travels from Scotland to England, he stops along the way at several of the aforementioned ladies' homes only to be sadly disappointed in their individual behaviors.  The only one on the list that truly intrigues him is Karolina Lane whose father, Lord Padbury, was a close friend of Elston's late father.  Lady Padbury, however, is determined to keep \\"Karla\\" out of the limelight in favor of her own daughter, Karla's half-sister, Lydia.  She thwarts Elston's every attempt to meet the strangely absent Karla.<br />One night, during his short stay at the Padbury residence, among the shadows of the terrace, Elston meets the governess, Catherine Lindquist.  He suspects havey-cavey happenings abound in the Padbury household after his brief chat with Catherine, and is determined to flush out the mysteriously missing Karolina Lane.  He enlists the aid of Jane, Lady Blackburn, who quickly takes Karla under her fairy godmother-like wing. Elston, however, has already left for London, and has no knowledge that Karla is now Jane's protege.<br />Karla is appalled at the possibility that Elston will find out about her true circumstances and treatment by her stepmother since her father's death four years earlier.  She immediately regrets hiding her true identity behind that of Catherine Lindquist, and dreads the day that she and Elston will meet in London at her coming-out with Lydia.  Will he accept her explanation, or be repelled by what she felt was a necessary deception?<br />THE MARRIAGE CAMPAIGN has all the ingredients of a Regency era Cinderella story.  Ms. Carleton develops a traditional cast of Regency characters from Elston, the epitome of a true gentleman, who will do everything in his power to help Karla escape the clutches of her evil stepmother, to the delightful Jane, Lady Blackburn, who champions Karla at every turn.<br />A continuation from Ms. Carleton's excellent debut novel,  A SCANDALOUS JOURNEY, THE MARRIAGE CAMPAIGN is set more amidst the ton of London during the season, whereas ASJ was an action/adventure road trip story.  I highly recommend both novels as exceptional examples of traditional Regency romance.  Ms. Carleton's research is impeccable, her voice distinct.  I look forward to the next offering, A TWIST OF FATE, being released in September of 2003.to the delightful Jane, Lady Blackburn, who champions Karla at every turn.<br />A continuation from Ms. Carleton's excellent debut novel,  A SCANDALOUS JOURNEY, THE MARRIAGE CAMPAIGN is set more amidst the ton of London during the season, whereas ASJ was an action/adventure road trip story.  I highly recommend both novels as exceptional examples of traditional Regency romance.  Ms. Carleton's research is impeccable, her voice distinct.  I look forward to the next offering, A TWIST OF FATE, being released in September of 2003.	2003-02-08
US	50742388	R3IL3W6YPSPRRU	0440236800	583359061	Comanche Woman (Sisters of the Lone Star)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	I was very disappointed...	Texas and Comancheria, 1843<br />Now known as Shadow, a powerful medicine woman to the Comanche warrior, Many Horses, Bayleigh \\"Bay\\" Stewart has adjusted to the Comanche way of life after being kidnapped three years ago.  She still, however, dreams of the day she can go home and marry her love, Jonas Harper.  When Many Horses returns to the village after a brief absence, he has a half-breed stranger, Long Quiet, in his company.  Apparently the man saved Many Horses' life more than one time and is now his blood brother. As such, he offers Shadow to Long Quiet, not realizing the repercussions that will follow this impulsive act.<br />His father a white man, his mother Comanche, Long Quiet walks between the two worlds, but the Comanche are nearest and dearest to his heart.  He has been searching for Bayleigh Stewart the past three years and now that he has found her, Long Quiet is reluctant to return her to her family, despite the promise he made to Bay's sister.  As the weeks go by and the two fall in love, it is evident that the people of the Comanche village no longer hold Shadow in awe and fear -- instead, they want her dead.  With Many Horses' blessing, the two escape from the village and start the long, enlightening journey to Bay's home.<br />I have long been a fan of Joan Johnston's novels, but COMANCHE WOMAN is not a keeper for me.  I was enthralled until chapter ten, when the story took on a very abrupt change in tone and direction from what I had previously read.  It was as if someone else had taken over the writing.  From that point on, there is an abundance of point of view changes, strange character inconsistencies, \\"purple\\" prose, and predictable happenstances.<br />I have not read the other books in this series, so COMANCHE WOMAN may very well mesh perfectly with those.  Even though I was personally disappointed in the last half of the book, I'm sure there are Joan Johnston fans who will enjoy the story.	2003-02-03
US	50742388	RU5YUQ2JPSTXF	0373272650	174306555	What a Man's Gotta Do (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1195)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Karen Templeton's last book in the Spruce Lake series ROCKS!	Eddie King has been back in Spruce Lake, Michigan for only a day and is already shaking things up in the small town.  The itinerent five star chef certainly doesn't look the part -- faded Levi's and cowboy boots being part of his uniform.  And why on earth had he let that ad for a chef, in some small town trade publication, bring him back here?  Because it had been the only place he had ever really called home, even though he hadn't stayed long. But that was a lifetime ago, and Eddie has now committed himself to relieving the current owner of Galen's restaurant of her cooking duties while she takes maternity leave.  He never expects to run into his high school crush, Mala Koleski, now a divorced, single mother of two, and just as round and soft-looking as she had been in high school.  Mala is still way out of Eddie's league, or so he thinks, and he has no intentions of marrying and settling down, let alone taking on some other guy's kids.  At least, that's what he keeps telling himself.<br />Mala Koleski does not believe in fairy tales. Even if her brother DID marry a real life princess, Mala doesn't see a Prince Charming in her future.  When her husband  walked out three years ago on her and their two young children, reality reared its angry head and bit her on the butt. With no contact and no child support from the ex since he left, Mala is determined to be independent. She runs her own business, and in the process is running herself ragged trying to keep it \\"all\\" together.  Enter Eddie King, the hunk of a boy from high school who mysteriously disappeared all those years ago, and now has suddenly reappeared out of the blue. Just as, if not more, hunky, and still mysterious.  And how did Mala let her best friend talk her into offering Eddie her upstairs apartment to rent?  Well, she does need the extra income, especially with Christmas right around the corner...but do her long dormant hormones have to start zinging, NOW?<br />Karen Templeton shines on all counts in this final offering of her Spruce Lake series.  Mala and Eddie are excellent foils for each other, and Ms. Templeton does a wonderful job of writing realistic love scenes that follow along naturally with the romance. I must say this is her spiciest book yet for SIM.  It was a delight to revisit characters from the other books, and a hoot to watch them act and react to Mala and Eddie's relationship...or lack thereof.  Mala's two young children are just as well-rounded and fully developed as the rest of the characters. They add to the emotion of the tale, not to mention some very humorous moments.<br />WHAT A MAN'S GOTTA DO is another endearing and heartwarming tale from the very talented pen of Karen Templeton. I highly recommend all of the books in this series to readers, and guarantee they will all make it to your keeper shelf! For more information on these books, as well as her upcoming releases, please visit Ms. Templeton's web site here: [...]this final offering of her Spruce Lake series.  Mala and Eddie are excellent foils for each other, and Ms. Templeton does a wonderful job of writing realistic love scenes that follow along naturally with the romance. I must say this is her spiciest book yet for SIM.  It was a delight to revisit characters from the other books, and a hoot to watch them act and react to Mala and Eddie's relationship...or lack thereof.  Mala's two young children are just as well-rounded and fully developed as the rest of the characters. They add to the emotion of the tale, not to mention some very humorous moments.<br />WHAT A MAN'S GOTTA DO is another endearing and heartwarming tale from the very talented pen of Karen Templeton. I highly recommend all of the books in this series to readers, and guarantee they will all make it to your keeper shelf! For more information on these books, as well as her upcoming releases, please visit Ms. Templeton's web site here: [...]	2003-01-13
US	50742388	R1KH6K92G0KXUS	0373711026	543948874	North Country Man (Harlequin Superromance No. 1102)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Carrie Alexander delivers again and again!	Noah Saari, former smoke jumper, is now a notorious hermit in his hometown of Alouette, Michigan.  Thinking to avoid the rumors surrounding his return, and escape painful memories, he has settled himself into a cabin deep in the woods, taking care of injured animals, and crafting unique wooden artifacts.  Noah has no desire for human contact--until Claire Levander crosses his path.<br />Claire Levander is having one heck of a time trying to locate the bed and breakfast in the back of beyond that she's supposed to scope out for the company she works for.  On the dark, lonely stretch of road that's supposed to take Claire to Bay House, she nearly runs over a mama bear and her cub.  No sooner does she recover from that incident, when a deer pops out of the woods, using the hood of her rental car as a springboard to get to the other side of the road.  Result? Car goes off the road into a ditch.  Claire exits the car and tries to backtrack to see if the deer is okay.  Instead, she stumbles into a huge, most hirsute man, baby bear cub tagging alongside him. Can the night get any more bizarre?<br />What follows is a most endearing, emotional read with traces of humor, and a twisted quest for revenge.  Ms. Alexander's ability to create well-rounded and fully developed characters, both main and secondary, is exceptional. Readers will gather to their hearts Noah and Claire, along with the quirky caretakers and employees of Bay House, Noah's animals, and Bay House's number one boarder, disabled spitfire, Cassia. Even the setting takes on a life of its own, with descriptive narrative that places the reader firmly in Alouette.<br />NORTH COUNTRY MAN is classic Carrie Alexander.  She has definitely found her niche with Harlequin Superromances, starting with THE MAVERICK.  Even though TM is a wonderful read, it is not related to NORTH COUNTRY MAN; however, it is my understanding that there will be at least two more stories related to NCM.  Personally, I can't wait!!	2003-01-02
US	50742388	RI0DQYQURD4QS	1553165780	91785069	An Accidental Goddess	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Don't miss the Admiral and the Goddess!	Admiral Rynan \\"Mack\\" Makarian has his hands full.  As the youngest admiral in the Fleet, Mack has his doubts about being able to convert Cirrus One, a space station way past its prime, into headquarters for the Fleet.  Frustrated after four months of delays, not to mention a slew of parrots in the atrium, all he needs is for a mysterious woman to crash in Cirrus's vicinity.  Once her ship has been towed on station, and the woman is released from sick bay, Mack realizes that there is much more to Captain Gillaine Davre than meets the eye.  Determined to solve the mystery surrounding \\"Gillie\\", Mack is soon attracted to her irreverent ways, and can't imagine a life without her.<br />Captain Gillaine Davre wakes up to find herself thrust three hundred and forty-odd years into the future, thanks to an explosion in Riftspace.  Not only that, but she's been deified.  Her likeness graces every shrine on board the space station Cirrus One, her former quips are now holy guidelines, and her crash deemed a divine sacrifice.  Gillie scoffs at the notion of how anyone could view her as a goddess.  She must, however, keep her identity a secret, and her powers hidden from her rescuers.  As she and Mack develop a strong relationship with each other, a longtime enemy is planning an invasion of Cirrus One.  An invasion that only Gillie can thwart.  Will she lose her new love when she reveals her true identity?<br />Ms. Baker's trademark characterization, plot development, detailed and complex prose, all shine in AN ACCIDENTAL GODDESS.  Whether creating fantasy creatures and lands, or colonies in deep space, this author is a master at her craft. This time, however, most of the story takes place on station instead of in deep space.  That isn't to say it is any less exciting or suspenseful than her other novels, written as either Megan Sybil Baker or Linnea Sinclair.<br />The multi-award winning and multitalented Ms. Baker takes readers on another wild ride through deep space.  Her ability to combine an exquisite tale with larger than life characters, a powerful plot, and spellbinding romance is incomparable.<br />AN ACCIDENTAL GODDESS, the far-future sequel to WINTERTIDE, Ms. Baker's first published fantasy novel, culminates in a rip-roaring climax, and is a story not to be missed!ity to combine an exquisite tale with larger than life characters, a powerful plot, and spellbinding romance is incomparable.<br />AN ACCIDENTAL GODDESS, the far-future sequel to WINTERTIDE, Ms. Baker's first published fantasy novel, culminates in a rip-roaring climax, and is a story not to be missed!	2002-12-16
US	50742388	R267RQT3S324S2	1553165233	536559931	Wintertide	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A magical fantasy journey!	WINTERTIDE is a highly imaginative, complex tale combining Science Fiction, Fantasy and Romance - although the hero and heroine are separated throughout most of the book, when they do finally come together it is a satisfying joining of two hearts and souls that belong together. I highly recommend WINTERTIDE to readers looking for a fast-paced, unusual, dark and dangerous story about sorcerers, wizards, demons, and the power of love to conquer all.	2002-11-10
US	50742388	R2DIW6OTFCR8TH	1591050898	96495915	Command Performance	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Another winner from the talented pen of Linnea Sinclair!	Deep Space and Other Worlds<br />Captain Tasha \\"Sass\\" Sebastian and her best friend, Chief Medical Officer, Eden Fynn are in a quandary. The two women must find a cure for a lethal alien virus, but Admiral Branden Kel-Paten's actions are directly interfering with their work. Kel-Paten's biggest concern is capturing Jace Serafino, mercenary pirate turned informant. Adding to their aggravation is the fact that Kel-Paten is determined to keep Sass in his sights at all times, even when she's off duty. This does not make for amicable relations on all sides. When Serafino's ship blows up entering a vortex behind Kel-Paten's ship, they rescue the rebel and bring him on board. What ensues is a battle of wits and mutual hatred between Kel-Paten and Serafino that push both Sass and Eden to the edges of their limited patience with the two men.<br />While trying to determine what lies behind the enmity between their Admiral and Serafino, Sass and Eden run circles around them, hoping to drive the two to distraction and keep them from killing each other. And this is just the beginning.<br />Branden Kel-Paten is a biological cyborg, reminiscent of the Six-<br />Million Dollar Man. Kel-Paten's emotions run the gamut from<br />professional Admiral to lovesick cyborg. Afraid of rejection, he<br />refuses to let Sass see how deep his feelings for her have run for the past eleven years. Instead, he keeps her by his side as much as possible without raising suspicion. Sass gives Kel-Paten a run for his money, boldly going where nobody else dares, back-talking and taking risks in her dealings with him. When she does discover Branden's almost obsessive feelings for her, she can't reconcile whether those feelings are the real thing or something that's been programmed into his cyber self. Eden is an empath with telepathic abilities who becomes very aware of Jace's own extreme telepathic abilities when he visits her in their sleep. Mix all of these characters together, and what you get is an emotional rollercoaster ride of deadly conflicts laced with moments of humor.<br />COMMAND PERFORMANCE is another rollicking space opera from the<br />talented pen of Linnea Sinclair. She delivers her trademark superb characterization and dialogue with extraordinary skill and finesse. Ms. Sinclair also combines an original storyline and unexpected turn in the space lanes through a time travel vortex, culminating in an ending that will have you screaming for the sequel, COMMAND DECISION, due out in 2003.<br />I highly recommend COMMAND PERFORMANCE to readers of all genres.<br />Suspense, mystery, two romances, heart-stopping action and adventure with enough emotional punch to make your heart ache in sympathy for all of the characters, is enough to satisfy fans on all levels.<br />Brava, Ms. Sinclair on another incredible journey through deep space!ional rollercoaster ride of deadly conflicts laced with moments of humor.<br />COMMAND PERFORMANCE is another rollicking space opera from the <BR>talented pen of Linnea Sinclair. She delivers her trademark superb characterization and dialogue with extraordinary skill and finesse. Ms. Sinclair also combines an original storyline and unexpected turn in the space lanes through a time travel vortex, culminating in an ending that will have you screaming for the sequel, COMMAND DECISION, due out in 2003.<br />I highly recommend COMMAND PERFORMANCE to readers of all genres. <BR>Suspense, mystery, two romances, heart-stopping action and adventure with enough emotional punch to make your heart ache in sympathy for all of the characters, is enough to satisfy fans on all levels. <br />Brava, Ms. Sinclair on another incredible journey through deep space!	2002-11-04
US	50742388	R3LKW5DNNGLNQO	0803495536	808745117	Kaleidoscope (Avalon Career Romance)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Excellent debut novel!	Boston, Massachusetts -- Present Day<br />Janeen Warner is determined to succeed on her own without help from friends or family.  She owns a gift shop, Chatter Box, and ultimately hopes that she will be able to distribute her custom-made kaleidoscopes to elite department stores.  Right now, however, Janeen just needs enough sales to make this month's rent.<br />World famous composer and concert pianist Georgios Andros has lost his music.  Burned out, and feeling as though something is lacking in his life, Georgios decides it's time to \\"find\\" himself.  Looking for a Mother's Day gift, he wanders into Chatter Box and is mesmerized by both shopkeeper and kaleidoscopes.  Could this be exactly what he's been looking for?<br />Janeen and Georgios are two very well-developed, realistic characters; she is portrayed as very stubborn, independent, and distrustful, shunning his every move to help. Georgios must accept the fact that money cannot buy everything -- especially love.<br />The intricate details of creating a kaleidoscope are both intriguing and fascinating -- not a typical romance heroine's trade.  The means by which Georgios composes his music are just as compelling, and the narrative sings without being bogged down in too much description.<br />I recommend KALEIDOSCOPE as a sweet, tender and charming romance with endearing characters and an original storyline.  Blanche Marriott is a delightful new voice in romantic fiction.	2002-10-29
US	50742388	R3SHY5Q8EV0ZRD	0758200862	989218541	Never Too Much	Books	4	20	23	N	N	Whew! Hot stuff; great partner book to TOO MUCH TEMPTATION	Ben Badwin wants a woman.  Now.  Not just any woman, but one that will pose a challenge.  Not that he's conceited, but Ben is uninterested in the women constantly throwing themselves at him.  He wants the thrill of the chase.  He gets that and more in the form of his new neighbor, Sierra Murphy.<br />Sierra wants nothing to do with tangled up involvements, especially with a man like Ben Badwin whose good looks should make him illegal.  Instead, she's concentrating on getting her new landscaping business off the ground.  Ben's sexy looks and gentlemanly ways soon have Sierra in a state of constant arousal and confusion.  A recent divorce from a very controlling man has made Sierra very leery of most men.  What's a woman to do?<br />Well, if the woman is a character in one of Lori Foster's books, you know she won't be in a state of constant arousal and confusion for too long!  NEVER TOO MUCH is a bit of a switch from Lori's usual fare.  Oh, not in the sexy, steamy department, but how Sierra and Ben get to that point.  Who says only women are teases??  I was hooked from the first page and could have very easily finished this in one sitting - if real life had let me.<br />Ms. Foster has an uncanny ability to create characters that grab onto readers' hearts and don't let go until the end.  Even then, you're sorry to turn the last page.  NEVER TOO MUCH is a delightful tale about two very strong-minded and strong-willed people, each with their own set of issues that must be resolved before they can finally commit to each other.  Some scenes are heartbreaking while others, especially where Ben's mother and grandmother are involved, are tender or hysterical.  The sub romance between Ben's mother and Sierra's friend and coworker is just as satisfying as the main romance.<br />I highly recommend NEVER TOO MUCH as classic Lori Foster with a little bit of a twist.  A sequel to TOO MUCH TEMPTATION, this tale can be read alone, but my advice is to read TMT first to get the whole effect of all the characters and how their relationships develop.ffect of all the characters and how their relationships develop.	2002-09-29
US	50742388	R3EX8I8OJZSJLH	0373441495	219891179	Once Upon A Tiara / Henry Ever After	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Double Delight!	ONCE UPON A TIARA<br />Even though Princess Liliane Brunner is in Blue Cloud, Pennsylvania to participate in the grand opening of her country's royal jewelry display at the local museum, she plans on experiencing everything that America has to offer.  Hot dogs, M&M's, cotton candy, and Simon Tremayne.  Not necessarily in that order.  Simon is quite simply boggled (in his own words) at the sight of Princess Lili, and adorable nerd that he is, trips over himself in order to impress her.  What ensues is a tale mixed with humor, drama and hysterical dialogue.  Simon's being made Lili's unofficial baby-sitter while she is in town only serves to cement his attraction to her, but how can this princess see him as anything more than a frog?<br />ONCE UPON A TIARA is classic Carrie Alexander in that it contains wonderful characters, real-life dialogue and enough humor to balance the dramatic parts.  I highly recommend it as one of Ms. Alexander's more funny and endearing stories.<br />HENRY EVER AFTER<br />Poor Henry Russell, sheriff of Blue Cloud, Pennsylvania, is smitten.  He doesn't have time, however, to be entranced by the lovely Gypsy Jana Vargas -- a woman who, coincidentally, has the same name as the famous Vargas diamond on display at the local museum.  Jana leads him to suspect that she and her traveling troupe are in Blue Cloud for more than a mere peek at the valuable tiara on display.  But Jana escapes Henry at every turn.  How can he keep an eye on her and her shifty young cousin Gabriel without throwing them both in jail?  Especially when Henry would prefer Jana to be a prisoner in his bed.<br />A little more serious in tone than ONCE UPON A TIARA, HENRY EVER AFTER is no less delightful.  Henry and Jana are both stubborn, independent people intent on having the upper hand.  It's a hoot to watch these two ...until the poignant ending.  Carrie Alexander again demonstrates why she is one of romantic comedy's most beloved authors.	2002-09-23
US	50742388	R2R3ZBM04AELYR	0451207122	949152358	A Scandalous Journey (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Fabulous debut!	Scotland and London - 1813<br />George Winterbrook, Earl of Weymouth is in a quandary.  Bound and blindfolded, the earl suspects the noises and smells in the background are not attributed to a normal house party.  When the blindfold is removed, his suspicions prove correct.  A true thorn in the side of society, Lady Arabella Smalley has kidnapped George so she can marry him - by whatever means necessary.  George is her intended ticket back into society.  Using the earl's summarily and similarly kidnapped niece and her governess as blackmail, Arabella very nearly gets her way.  She doesn't count on the earl and the \\"governess\\" concocting an escape plan.<br />Beth Castleton is not having a good day. Actually, it hasn't been a very good week, although she has only just found out she's been unconcious for the past five days.  An orphaned American, Beth has moved to London to be with her only surviving relatives.  She never imagined she would be the victim of mistaken identity thrown into the company of a man who recently gave her the cut direct.  When the earl explains about the kidnappings and begs her to take his niece to safety, how can the proper, practical and compassionate Beth refuse?<br />What follows is a brave escape by George, Beth, George's niece Isabella, and two servants more than ready to leave the employ of the ... Lady Arabella and her cohorts.  Confusion, mayhem and a gunshot wound to Beth's shoulder all preceed a mad, scandalous journey to London with Lady Arabella nipping at their heels.<br />Ms. Carleton creates a delightful cast of characters in this dramatic and sometimes humorous traditional Regency tale.  George is presented as an honorable, romantic hero, very protective of his loved ones, including Beth.  Beth can't help but start feeling tender toward the earl, but is still confused by his impolite reaction to first meeting her.  Secondary characters, especially that of the Scottish maid, Moira, who defects from Lady Arabella, are just as endearing as the main characters.  George's friend Elston begs for his own story to be told. Ms. Carleton guarantees his tale will be forthcoming in February, titled THE MARRIAGE CAMPAIGN.<br />Don't miss this exciting and tender debut by the talented, skillful Susannah Carleton!earing as the main characters.  George's friend Elston begs for his own story to be told. Ms. Carleton guarantees his tale will be forthcoming in February, titled THE MARRIAGE CAMPAIGN.<br />Don't miss this exciting and tender debut by the talented, skillful Susannah Carleton!	2002-09-22
US	50742388	R1A2P1KWZ75RGI	038081742X	987828062	To Marry an Heiress (Daughters of Fortune)	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Another treasure from this awesome writer...	London, 1878<br />Devon Sheridan, the Earl of Huntingdon needs an heiress -- yesterday.  When he hears about an American heiress visiting England with her father, he makes a point of meeting Georgina Pierce.  Sheridan also meets with Mr. Pierce, who promises his fortune to the earl as soon as he and Georgina wed.  So sets the tone for a convenient marriage that neither party finds very convenient.<br />Georgina has already concluded that England is filled with fortune hunters and she wants to marry for love.  When she hears that the Earl of Huntingdon has asked for her hand in marriage, and after only one meeting, she is naturally suspicious.  But the earl seems sincere and Georgina also wants her father to be happy, so she agrees to the arrangement -- a union she quickly discovers isn't due to the earl falling head over heels in love with her.<br />Lorraine Heath travels from Fortune, Texas to London, England with some of the characters from her beloved \\"Texas\\" series and does so seamlessly and skillfully.  Georgina is a forward-thinking woman aware of the fact that most men are attracted only to her money.  Lord Huntington is presented as a devil-may-care rake until he finds out the true story about Georgina's fortune.  Although he would like to claim indifference to his new bride, her fortitude and perseverance toward changing him back into some semblance of a human being, and her voluntary help on his estate, soon start to wear down his anger at what he thought was a betrayal.  Her loving and caring nature toward his two young children also raises her in his esteem; his late wife never seemed to care for them as much as Georgina does.<br />TO MARRY AN HEIRESS is a tender, warm-hearted romance that progresses naturally from beginning to end.  Georgina is a strong, willful woman unwilling to  accept defeat in her quest for true love.  Lord Huntingdon never stands a chance.<br />I highly recommend this as a fast-paced tale with many poignant and eye-opening moments for both parties. TO MARRY AN HEIRESS is another treasure to add to your Lorraine Heath keeper shelf.for both parties. TO MARRY AN HEIRESS is another treasure to add to your Lorraine Heath keeper shelf.	2002-09-09
US	50742388	RKP9JY2IX9HJX	0373250193	686455358	Loose Screws (Red Dress Ink)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Laugh out loud funny with poignant moments, too...	The title of this book should really be GINGER PETROCELLI'S BAD SUMMER, but LOOSE SCREWS is appropriate, too. *G* After being jilted at the alter, Ginger's old \\"virginator\\", Nick, now a cop, shows up at her door nearly accusing her of doing a foul deed in conjunction with her fiance's disappearance. Not only that, after subleasing her apartment for five years, the original tenant informs Ginger she's coming back so Ginger needs new digs. After finding said new digs Ginger is burned out of her new home and ends up living with Mom and Grandmom. Not a good thing.<br />The story snowballs from there with many humorous laugh-out-loud moments, but plenty of poignant, angst-filled ones included, as well.<br />Karen's classic characterization, dialogue and storyline shine in this modern day PERILS OF PAULINE and I highly recommend it as a terrific, take-your-mind-off-your-own-troubles book!	2002-08-28
US	50742388	R29RL9D8ZHYEER	055358457X	967214227	The Charm Stone	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Hauntingly human...	Daydreaming while surfing is not a good idea.  When this happens to Josie Griffin and she wipes out after hitting something hard in the water, she's shocked to discover an antiquated treasure chest is the culprit.  Opening the chest, she discovers a beautiful necklace and puts it on.  Now, the fun begins.  Enter a wee kilted sprite named Bagan who tells her the necklace is her destiny and that she must travel to Scotland for marriage to a three hundred year-old ghost.  Okay, the bump on her head must've been worse than she thought.  Josie quickly puts the necklace away, tucks the treasure chest into her Jeep and goes home thinking to save her sanity.  Circumstances soon lead Josie on a trip to Scotland for business.  When she arrives, Josie is inexplicably pulled to the Isle of Glenmuir, Connal's ancestral home.<br />Connal MacNeil, ghost laird of the MacNeil clan, has been waiting three long centuries to fulfill his bargain of exchanging his soul for the birth of a son to carry on the MacNeil name.  When Josie arrives in Glenmuir with the magical charm stone of his clan, Connal wastes no time in explaining that she is his fate and destiny.  Now, all he has to do is convince Josie that she isn't halucinating or insane.<br />THE CHARM STONE is an exceptional mix of paranormal, historical and modern day romance.  As a strong, independent woman of the twenty-first century, Josie gives Connal a run for his money when he thinks he can dictate to her.  Scenes of Connal trying to save Josie from killing herself while surfing are priceless.  Bagan is hysterical as the much put upon guardian of the stone and is kept on his toes trying to keep tabs on and protect Josie. The older villagers are in turns humorous and emotional in their quest to learn how to surf and quickly endear themselves to Josie making it almost impossible to leave.<br />Donna Kauffman outdoes herself in this tender, emotional and passionate intriguing tale of a man intent on continuing his line and the woman who teaches him how to live, love and have fun.  If you liked THE LEGEND MACKINNON, you'll love THE CHARM STONE.  Don't miss it!man who teaches him how to live, love and have fun.  If you liked THE LEGEND MACKINNON, you'll love THE CHARM STONE.  Don't miss it!	2002-08-04
US	50742388	R191IMP28XCDR5	1931696942	66226106	Fate	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Outstanding in every way!	WOW! Looking for a good murder, action, adventure novel with a twist of the paranormal? Then, look no further than FATE.<br />This book had me hooked from the first page and I read it in a matter of hours. A writer begins having nightmares about a horrible car crash and then discovers they aren't really nightmares. She's experiencing another woman's death through her eyes. The events leading up to, during, and afterward, are knock-your-socks-off suspense and intrigue.<br />Mr. Smith is a phenomenal writer and I look forward to trying some his other titles including THE PREY, available at Amazon.com. Whew!	2002-07-16
US	50742388	R3QTXJM99QHR6R	0553582844	987686924	The Good, the Bad, and the Sexy	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Fun and different!	...<br />The antics that follow Jackson Stone and his Morticia look-alike daughter, Cherie, are pure fun, laced with emotion and understandable teen angst on Cherie's part. The product of divorced Hollywood beautiful people, she's always felt like she's in the background and does whatever is needed to gain attention.  Rachel's eleven year-old son, Sam, is almost too good to be true, but he is a country boy, not city or street wise.  Cherie plans on changing that.  Sam wants to change her!...<br />THE GOOD, THE BAD and the SEXY is a laugh out loud, heart-warming tale of several people trying to get their lives together without much luck.  Once they all come together under the same roof, however, things start to click.<br />Emily Carmichael shines again in this romance tale that has it all, from movie star parents to typical kids, sarcastic, yet fun-loving ranch help, and an all-knowing, all-seeing octogenarian postmistress.  I highly recommend THE GOOD, THE BAD and the SEXY as a must-read!	2002-07-03
US	50742388	RHUHS96UBUKQS	193169687X	318040760	Escape The Past	Books	5	1	2	N	N	WOW!...	K.G. McAbee is now an auto-buy author for me. This tale is a nonstop action, suspense, adventure fantasy that kept me glued to the pages. Valerik is the epitome of any woman's hero and Madryn is a strong, mystical match for him. Good prevails over evil; and I mean EVIL! Whew.<br />K.G. McAbee has an imagination that knows no bounds and I look foward to reading her other unique books - as soon as I can find them all!	2002-07-03
US	50742388	R3V5A9WQLKBT80	0380820692	803473105	Tangled Up in Love	Books	4	3	3	N	N	First read by North, but not my last...	Workaholic Stacey St. Cyr's assistant has finally talked her into taking a much needed vacation....<br />Can... two strong-minded people put aside past hurts and issues of trust to become a happy family?<br />TANGLED UP IN LOVE is a delightful, heartwarming and tender tale of romance.  Michael and Stacey shine as small-town vet meets big city executive.  You wonder how the two will ever solve their differences in order to find happiness and the author doesn't disappoint.  Secondary characters are typical of small-town life and I especially liked the two older women that ran The Schoolhouse Inn where Stacey stayed.....<br />I highly recommend TANGLED UP IN LOVE as a great romantic comedy with very sympathetic and passionate characters.  This is my first read by Ms. North, but it won't be my last!	2002-06-10
US	50742388	R1YI9QNBY88U9R	0380978555	842568057	The Pursuit (Sherring Cross)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Not her best, but not her worst, either...	Twenty-nine year-old Lincoln Ross Burnett has decided he needs to exorcise old ghosts before he can search for a wife and start a family.  Thus, Lincoln sets out for his beloved Scotland after a nineteen year absence in England living with his uncle and becoming his heir. What Lincoln doesn't expect is an instant attraction to Melissa MacGregor -- the niece of his sixteen adversaries, all brothers, from his troubled childhood.<br />Melissa MacGregor is going to London to find a husband.  Although she hates the thought of leaving Scotland, Melissa has no choice because her overprotective uncles -- all sixteen of her mother's brothers -- have discouraged every suitor who has ever paid her any kind of attention.  Shortly before Melissa is to leave Scotland, she meets a man who immediately engages her heart.  Lincoln Burnett appears to be just as enamored of Melissa, raising her hopes that the husband hunt will be short-lived.  And so the adventure, or more aptly, the pursuit, begins.<br />THE PURSUIT is a sequel to LOVE ME FOREVER:  Melissa MacGregor is the daughter of Lachlan and Kimberly MacGregor.  It was fun to revisit those characters and see how Lachlan deals with the problems of fatherhood.  Problems of which there are many, when Kimberly's brothers refuse to relinquish their overprotectiveness towards Melissa.  The uncles, six of whom are named Ian -- which got confusing -- remember Lincoln as a crazed ten-year-old always trying to fight his way through them.  They fear his madness has carried over into adulthood and have no intention of letting him become involved with Melissa.<br />The first half of THE PURSUIT is filled with backstory and much narration as opposed to quick action; showing, rather than telling.  The middle picked up the pace, but the constant references to Lincoln being crazy, and the lengths that the uncles went to so that he and Melissa were constantly forced apart, got tiresome.  The dialogue is classic Lindsey, containing her wit and sarcasm, and the dramatic and poignant ending came as a complete surprise.casm, and the dramatic and poignant ending came as a complete surprise.	2002-05-27
US	50742388	R1CZOJ198JE691	1931696993	126472123	Finders Keepers	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Ms. Sinclair is an incredibly talented author!	Trilby Elliot is the equivalent of a modern day independent trucker. Trilby, however, commandeers an antique spaceship called the Careless Venture, a ship in desperate need of updated equipment and repairs. Stranded on an isolated and hostile planet, Trilby and her android, Dezi, are diligently trying to fix the ship and get back to business. As if in answer to her many prayers, an enemy aircraft crashes nearby. Trilby and Dezi set off to salvage what they can find and keep from the expensive ship -- including the pilot, if alive, for a reward.<br />Rhis Vanur wakes to excruciating pain and no knowledge of his surroundings or the woman who is tending to him. Fearful that the \\"sprite\\" has plans to turn him over to the authorities, Rhis promptly takes control of Trilby and her 'droid. After a lengthy and heated discussion, Rhis decides his only recourse is to go along with Trilby's plans while trying to gain her confidence and trust. The two form an uneasy alliance as they work to repair the Careless Venture, and Rhis feels the first stirrings of guilt at keeping his true identity from Trilby.<br />Linnea Sinclair masterfully creates an action packed, adventure filled and dangerous tale with some of the most memorable characters to grace the pages of a novel I've ever read, romance or otherwise. Trilby is as big as a minute, but strong, courageous and loyal to a fault. As one of the most powerful and arrogant men in the \\"Empire\\", Rhis discovers he now needs to develop a sense of humor and strong self-control around Trilby. Their scenes together are laced with sensuality and a good deal of humor. Each is used to being in total control -- it's fun to watch the compromising and internal conflict between the two. The android, Dezi, steals many of the scenes with his analytical musings and inability to keep quiet. Dialogue, even though some of it's in a faux language, is easy to understand and completely natural. When the secondary characters arrive on the scene, all are easily identifiable by their dialogue alone. When Rhis and Trilby are informed that Trilby's life is in danger, Rhis takes a horrible chance in trying to protect her, not knowing that someone is betraying them. That scene alone is worth the price of this book.<br />FINDERS KEEPERS is a riveting, tightly written, edge-of-your-seat tale that pulls the reader in from page one, never letting go until the poignant finish. I highly recommend this to readers of all genres, and hope like heck there's a sequel!asily identifiable by their dialogue alone. When Rhis and Trilby are informed that Trilby's life is in danger, Rhis takes a horrible chance in trying to protect her, not knowing that someone is betraying them. That scene alone is worth the price of this book.<br />FINDERS KEEPERS is a riveting, tightly written, edge-of-your-seat tale that pulls the reader in from page one, never letting go until the poignant finish. I highly recommend this to readers of all genres, and hope like heck there's a sequel!	2002-04-12
US	50742388	R2XBVZE4D5X444	1553165594	305014339	Gabriel's Ghost	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Science Fiction Romance fans won't want to miss this!!	The victim of a sham court-martial, Imperial Fleet Captain Chasidah \\"Chaz\\" Bergren is stripped of her command and transported to the hostile prison world of Moabar. Life sentence, no parole. Three weeks after her arrival, Chaz defends herself against an overly amorous alien guard, killing him. Ready to run, she turns, only to find herself face to face with Gabriel Ross Sullivan -- former nemesis, mercenary, smuggler and almost-lover -- a man she thought had been dead for two years.<br />Sully/Gabriel is part of a secret, deadly mission to destroy an illegal genetics lab that is breeding Jukors, a species of monsters nearly impossible to kill and thought to be extinct and banned ten years ago by the Empire. Sully needs Chaz's knowledge of the military base where the Jukors are and her expertise in navigating the intergalactic space lanes. He offers her the option of joining his cause in exchange for her freedom from Moabar. They enter into a business arrangement, neither one aware of the incredible bond it will forge.<br />Disguised as members of a religious order, Chaz, Sully and Sully's best friend, Brother Ren Ackravaro, set off on the dangerous journey -- a journey of self-discovery, hidden truths, trust, deception and betrayals.<br />Ms. Baker is a master at creating multilayered characters and placing them in near impossible situations. Chasidah works on a strictly professional level, never backing down from an injustice or a challenge. Sully/Gabriel is a tormented soul, harboring a dark secret he entrusts only to Ren. Chaz is only allowed to see the playful, teasing Sully, not the deep, dark Gabriel, until it's too late to turn back. Ren is an aquatic creature, an intriguing gentle giant of a humanoid, soft-spoken and intense in his loyalties and friendships. As the three travel together over a long period of time, they form a tentative allegiance and friendship, counting on each other for their survival. The sexual tension and growing love between Chaz and Sully is both heartwarming and, at times, heartbreaking.<br />Megan Sybil Baker hooks readers from the first page, then teases at the end of each chapter with a surprise, a twist, or a turn. Fast-paced, suspenseful, tension-filled and highly emotional, GABRIEL'S GHOST is an addictive tale of adventure and romance that readers will be hard pressed to put down. The breathtaking, exciting climax left this reviewer eager for Ms. Baker's next release.<br />Buckle up, hold on tight, and prepare for a wild ride you won't soon forget!lly is both heartwarming and, at times, heartbreaking.<br />Megan Sybil Baker hooks readers from the first page, then teases at the end of each chapter with a surprise, a twist, or a turn. Fast-paced, suspenseful, tension-filled and highly emotional, GABRIEL'S GHOST is an addictive tale of adventure and romance that readers will be hard pressed to put down. The breathtaking, exciting climax left this reviewer eager for Ms. Baker's next release.<br />Buckle up, hold on tight, and prepare for a wild ride you won't soon forget!	2002-04-12
US	50742388	RYRXT9ECSNZFS	0553801724	467944726	To Kiss a Spy	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Dangerous and emotional historical...	Exhausted and barely coherent after an intense, anguishing twenty-hour labor, recently widowed Lady Penelope Bryanston refuses to believe her mother-in-law's declaration that her baby died at birth.  She knows she heard the babe cry.  As part of Princess Mary's entourage, Pen spends the next two years obsessing over her son and uncovering the truth, albeit secretly, while staying close to the Princess.<br />Owen de Arcy, a smart, sophisticated spy, is sent to King Edward's court to seduce Lady Penelope in hopes of becoming her confidante in matters of royal secrets, which he will deliver back to the French ambassador.  Instead of the meek, pliable woman he has been led to believe Pen is, Owen finds a strongly independent woman who resists the charms that never failed him before now.<br />Following a short period of becoming better acquainted with each other, Pen and Owen not only form a deep attraction, but confide their secrets and enter into a dangerous bargain to help one another.  Master spy that he is, Owen will call upon his contacts to see what he can learn about Pen's child, living or dead, and Pen will confide any secrets she learns regarding Princess Mary's fate.<br />Centered on young King Edward's court and his cousin and heir, Princess Mary, TO KISS A SPY is a complex, dangerous, mysterious tale of lies, betrayals, power and greed.  After the initial sparks fly between Pen and Owen, their relationship travels along a natural path, both being open and honest with the other.  Secondary characters also shine, most especially Pen's sister, Pippa, and stepbrother, Robin, lending much needed support and touches of humor.<br />Ms. Feather pens a dangerous, emotional tale that takes the reader from London proper into the seedier spots where brothels and stews abound.  Some dialogue seemed more modern to me than sixteenth century \\"speak\\", but did not detract enough to pull me out of this exciting story.<br />I recommend TO KISS A SPY as a fast-paced, engrossing novel of intrigue, passion and the power of not only romantic love, but love of family, to conquer and heal all.novel of intrigue, passion and the power of not only romantic love, but love of family, to conquer and heal all.	2002-03-25
US	50742388	R1CUMIYQYOYI19	0451205529	171763419	Fortune's Lady (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	New-to-me author and very good!	What was once a distant event of the future is now a reality as Lady Althea Beauchamp finds herself in the midst of her First Season in London. Trained from the cradle to be an Incomparable among Incomparables, Althea is the catch of the season due to her family's fortune, incredible beauty, impeccable manners, and exquisite fashions. All Althea craves, however, is a return to her beloved friends and animals in the countryside instead of being on display like a thoroughbred horse at Tattersall's. She despises the envying glances of marriage-minded misses and the leering looks of fortune-hunting bachelors. Althea wants to be seen as her own person instead of a diamond of the first water.<br />Frustrated at escorting his mother to every ball and rout in town during the Season, Gareth de Vere, sixth Marquess of Harwood, is looking for a distraction from his dear Mama's attempts to marry him off to someone with a fortune large enough to keep her in the height of fashion. He prefers to worry about their estate in the countryside, not keeping up with the ton. Having enmassed a comfortable fortune of his own by playing a deft hand of cards, Gareth sees no reason to marry...until he meets the \\"Ice Princess,\\" Lady Althea Beauchamp. No slouch at the card table herself, Gareth is intrigued by the woman's ability to beat him at his own game. To amuse himself, he follows Lady Althea around town. Soon his title of the \\"Bachelor Marquess\\" is in danger of becoming obsolete.<br />An endearing cast of characters, depth of emotion and an original storyline make FORTUNE'S LADY a delightful read. Not your typical Regency romp, road trip or guardian tale, this book takes an interesting turn in the development of a relationship between two lonely people who first become fast friends that champion each other. Instead of slowly breaking down frustrating walls of silence, Althea and Gareth are not loathe to reveal their secret desires and empty childhoods to one another. Dialogue sings between all of the characters, and even though we are privy to many characters' thoughts and feelings, Ms. Richardson's smooth transitions make them hardly noticeable and unobtrusive.<br />I highly recommend FORTUNE'S LADY as a fresh contribution to the Regency genre, and I look forward to reading more of Evelyn Richardson's work.en all of the characters, and even though we are privy to many characters' thoughts and feelings, Ms. Richardson's smooth transitions make them hardly noticeable and unobtrusive.<br />I highly recommend FORTUNE'S LADY as a fresh contribution to the Regency genre, and I look forward to reading more of Evelyn Richardson's work.	2002-03-18
US	50742388	R1WLWR7FRBW5SW	0373259697	873801127	RISKY MOVES	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Great spin-off of SMOOTH MOVES!	Thoroughly grounded twenty-eight year-old Julia Knox has her world turned upside down when dangerous daredevil Adam Brody comes home for his brother Zach's wedding. Julia and Adam share a ten year old secret, and Julia is determined to pin Adam down and clear the air. Julia dares him to teach her how to rock climb. What better way to get up close and personal and show Adam she's willing to take a risk?<br />The last thing Adam Brody expects is to have Julia Knox confront him at his brother's wedding reception and demand he teach her how to defy death. After months in a hospital following a horrendous car crash, Adam is still not one hundred percent. Never able to turn down a dare, however, he agrees to Julia's outrageous proposal, if for no other reason than to prove to both of them that their long ago attraction to each other was a big mistake.<br />Julia has been waiting ten long years to get Adam to face up to what happened between them all that time ago. Granted, circumstances were not perfect, but Julia thinks Adam has taken the guilt trip and honorable brother thing a bit too far. The conflict and sensual attraction between these two escalates into much more, making for a fast-paced, enticing read. Secondary characters are typical of small town people, lending humor and compassion to this emotional tale.<br />Carrie Alexander's writing prowess shines again in this spin-off from SMOOTH MOVES, Adam's brother Zach's story. It was a hoot to revisit old friends and especially to see one character in particular get her comeuppance. Ms. Alexander's talent knows no bounds when it comes to mixing humor with emotion, and her ability to make readers sniffle and laugh out loud, in turns.<br />I highly recommend RISKY MOVES as a tender love story with undercurrents of danger, guaranteed to make readers root for Julia and fall in love with Adam.	2002-03-17
US	50742388	R2GP3ARUKPG0JK	0380815486	296862750	My Lady's Temptation	Books	5	3	3	N	N	This one's a keeper!	When Josce FitzBaldwin, bastard son of a nobleman, rides into Knabwell to avenge his father's and two young stepsister's deaths, he has no idea of the web of betrayal, deceit and greed he'll be facing. Neither does he expect to fall in love -- with the daughter of the man he suspects is protecting the others who killed his family.<br />Elianne du Hommet is the destitute daughter of the sheriff of Knabwell -- a greedier, more selfish man you would be hard put to find. There is no love lost between the two and Elianne, with her own suspicions, agrees to help Josce and his stepmother in their quest to uncover the truth of their family's murders. After all, what else can be done to her? Thanks to her father, she is no longer welcome at the local priory and is near to being homeless.<br />Elianne is a strong, prideful character, aware she cannot have what she wants, but that doesn't stop her from falling in love, even though that path leads to danger. Josce is a most honorable, compassionate man intent on his duty, and the epitome of a romance hero. Secondary characters will make you laugh, cry, and tear your hair out. Especially Sheriff du Hommet whom I wanted to string up by his toenails!<br />MY LADY'S TEMPTATION is an intriguing, fast-paced novel filled with suspense and treachery. The climactic ending will leave readers flipping pages as fast as they can, only to find themselves hoping there will be another book in this series.<br />Denise Hampton hits her stride with MY LADY'S TEMPTATION. Reminiscent of her writing as Denise Domning, I highly recommend this spin-off of THE WARRIOR'S DAMSEL. Don't miss this top notch tale of love and its incredible power to beat all odds.	2002-03-06
US	50742388	R2GRFY4JESIJFL	0758200846	855404492	Too Much Temptation	Books	5	59	60	N	N	Definitely Lori's best I've read, to date...	The last thing Noah Harper expects to find is his fianc&eacute;e in bed with another man. He can't seem to get angry about it; instead he feels only relief. Because Noah and Kara's families have a history together and his grandmother adores Kara, Noah takes the blame for calling off the wedding so that Kara won't suffer through a scandal. Now Noah decides all he wants is a hot and heavy affair with some woman, any woman, to make up for the less than hot times he ever had in Kara's bed. And this woman must play by all of his rules, at least in the bedroom.<br />Grace Jenkins is Noah's grandmother's personal assistant and has been half in love with Noah for three years. Hardly experienced with men, and possessing a less than favorable opinion about her full-figured looks, Grace can't believe it when Noah proposes they carry on an affair after he breaks up with his fianc&eacute;e. Grace, however, just can't say no to the man she's pined for all this time. Noah also makes her feel incredibly sexy and beautiful.<br />What follows is a story that has it all! Lori Foster shines as she breathes incredible and realistic life into Noah, Grace, and all of the secondary characters. Everyone has an integral part in the storyline, from Noah's ditzy former fianc&eacute;e to his sarcastically funny and adorable brother, Ben. And the grandmother? Well, she just wants what's best (or what she thinks is best) for her grandson and isn't beyond a bit of manipulation in order to get it. Conflict and humor abound among all, but I most connected and sympathized with Grace. Grace is a \\"real\\" woman, inside and out, in my opinion. She only lets Noah THINK he's the boss, which leads to some hysterically funny and poignant scenes.<br />TOO MUCH TEMPTATION is a delicious story about two people who are so opposite from each other, they're just perfect together. Lori Foster is a master at delivering smart, sensuous, snappy dialogue and intense emotion when the readers -- and the characters -- least expect it. Ms. Foster yet again proves herself as one of the romance industry's most beloved authors with this insightful, explicitly sexy, yet highly emotional and poignant tale.<br />TOO MUCH TEMPTATION is a definite candidate for keeper shelves everywhere. It goes right to the top of my list of best reads for 2002.Foster yet again proves herself as one of the romance industry's most beloved authors with this insightful, explicitly sexy, yet highly emotional and poignant tale.<br />TOO MUCH TEMPTATION is a definite candidate for keeper shelves everywhere. It goes right to the top of my list of best reads for 2002.	2002-02-21
US	50742388	R3BGVKHH1DFUWV	0312979975	283452346	Fantasy Lover	Books	5	443	460	N	N	Wow! The relationship in this book sings.	Twenty-nine year-old sex therapist Grace Alexander has been celibate for four years after experiencing a horrendous relationship with a self-centered, cruel former lover. Grace's flamboyant, exotic friend Selena decides it's time to get Grace back in the swing of things and she has just the solution -- an ancient tome holding a magnificent male specimen cursed to live between the pages of the book for eternity -- until he's called forth with a magic spell to serve as a love slave to his summoner for a period of one month. Having experienced Selena's so-called magic spells before, Grace isn't worried that the gorgeous guy in the picture is going to magically appear. Surprise, surprise, and happy birthday to Grace!<br />Julian of Macedon, half God, half mortal, is so exceptionally good looking that he made women fall at his feet and men green with envy and jealousy, in his time -- 149 BC. Jealousy and atonement for his sins, is what finds Julian cursed and trapped between the pages of a book only free for one month at a time, if he's lucky. Sometimes that freedom only comes once every one hundred years. When Grace summons him from the book, Julian is resigned and ready to fulfill her every sexual dream and fantasy. Grace, however, has other ideas for Julian. When she discovers just what a heartbreaking, loveless and dark life he's lived, Grace decides to show Julian just what friendship and love mean.<br />Ms. Kenyon creates an absorbing tale filled with larger than life characters from the lowly mortals on up to Greek gods, goddesses and mythological beings. Grace is one of the strongest, most compassionate heroines and Julian one of the most sympathetic, confused and tortured heroes to ever grace the pages of a romance novel. Julian's family runs the gamut of evil to misunderstood, with his mother, Aphrodite, the goddess of love, taking center stage toward the climactic and poignant ending. Readers get a glimpse of things to come and an introduction to the character in the beginning series of Dark Hunters, which I can't wait to read!<br />FANTASY LOVER is an exceptional, fresh and original story from the compelling first page to the exciting, explosive end. I was enthralled throughout, barely able to put it down when real life intruded. Ms. Kenyon is a true word wizard with incredible writing talent. I highly recommend Julian and Grace's story as one that will stay in your heart long after you reach the last page.in the beginning series of Dark Hunters, which I can't wait to read!<br />FANTASY LOVER is an exceptional, fresh and original story from the compelling first page to the exciting, explosive end. I was enthralled throughout, barely able to put it down when real life intruded. Ms. Kenyon is a true word wizard with incredible writing talent. I highly recommend Julian and Grace's story as one that will stay in your heart long after you reach the last page.	2002-02-20
US	50742388	RGAH6OYY8J9KG	0373710429	912183736	The Maverick (Harlequin Superromance No. 1042)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Some of Carrie's best writing to date!	After being shuffled around to various foster homes and then sent to live with her alcoholic father, seventeen year-old Sophie Ryan finds the only safety and love she's ever known in the arms of nineteen year-old \\"bad\\" boy, Luke \\"Maverick\\" Salinger. A break-in and severe misunderstanding lead the two to separate for fourteen years. Now, Luke is back in town and Sophie is Deputy Ryan. She immediately arrests him for speeding and a fourteen year-old charge of robbery that's never been closed. Sophie never expects the judge to make her Luke's \\"baby-sitter\\" instead of throwing him in jail.<br />Luke Salinger is back in Treetop after fourteen years of odd jobs, the last eight spent as a motorcycle stuntman. He's tired. He's burned out. He doesn't need ancient history creeping up on him. All Luke wants is to help his aging grandmother run her ranch. But small town gossip and rumors about Sophie Ryan betraying him all those years ago, then supposedly giving birth to his son, have Luke wondering what really happened back then. He reevaluates his life and discovers his feelings for Sophie have never disappeared. The more time he spends in Sophie and her son Joe's company, the more he becomes suspicious about what his brother, Heath, has been telling him over the years.<br />THE MAVERICK is a hornet's nest of small town gossip, rumors, pettiness and love tragically gone wrong. Sophie has worked hard to redeem herself in the eyes of the townspeople for her son's sake. Now her life is crawling with Salingers when the only one she wants to associate with is Luke. Can this couple heal old wounds while trying to discover why anyone would have wanted to tear them apart in the first place? Add to that the mystery of wild mustangs being killed on preservation property, betrayals, and a surprise twist and you have a fast paced, suspense filled, intense romance about a second chance at love.<br />Carrie Alexander pens an exciting, yet tender love story, filled with in-depth, believable characters. Sophie and Luke behave in a manner totally in character for both of them. Their dialogue, body language and rediscovery of each other sing. The senseless killings of the horses lead to a discovery of evil that neither suspects, but is integral to their coming back together.<br />I highly recommend THE MAVERICK as a romantic story that satisfies on all levels. A definite candidate for keeper shelves, I'm claiming this book as one of my best reads of 2002.characters. Sophie and Luke behave in a manner totally in character for both of them. Their dialogue, body language and rediscovery of each other sing. The senseless killings of the horses lead to a discovery of evil that neither suspects, but is integral to their coming back together.<br />I highly recommend THE MAVERICK as a romantic story that satisfies on all levels. A definite candidate for keeper shelves, I'm claiming this book as one of my best reads of 2002.	2002-02-16
US	50742388	R3ECJFCRXN39PA	0380816830	639000625	Something Wild	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Entertaining read with emotional punch...	The rebellious daughter of a preacher, Charity Wilde dreams of becoming a famous Las Vegas showgirl. Her termination from the latest show, however, sends her packing to Wyoming to rest, relax and visit with family and friends. What Charity finds is a wild stallion that she'd rather see run free than be captured by determined cowboy, Mike Flynn. These two butt heads from their first meeting.<br />Mike Flynn is no ordinary cowboy. Widowed and celibate for six years, Mike can't shake the feelings of guilt he still has over his wife's death. He's confused by his developing feelings for Charity and doesn't need the distraction. And how is she going to react when she finds out he's also a minister?<br />Charity and Mike are two of the most unlikely people to ever set eyes on each other. Both are emotionally challenged with definite ideas of what each wants in life -- totally opposite of the other's plans and dreams. When it becomes apparent that the two are fighting a deep attraction to each other, Charity runs back to Las Vegas and Mike soon follows. If they could only communicate honestly with each other, they might realize they were meant to be together.<br />SOMETHING WILD is in turns emotional, playful, intense and heart-wrenching. Ms. Berg does a wonderful job putting these two complete opposites together and attracting them to each other like magnets. Sexual tension runs high and dialogue is often filled with innuendo. Mike's strong sense of honor and Charity's insecurities make for an interesting storyline.<br />SOMETHING WILD is a fun, lighthearted and entertaining read with several emotional punches thrown in leading up to a very poignant ending.	2002-02-06
US	50742388	R2OHKCMGZAA4WK	0451204824	289469658	One Good Turn (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	I loved this book!	The heck with the terms hero and heroine! This was a REAL MAN and a REAL WOMAN pitted against one of the most horrific battles of our time; even though that was mostly backstory, it was sooo important.  This was just an amazing, heartbreaking story with a most poignant ending. I was also impressed at how Ms. Kelly was able to insert just enough appropriate humor without belittling the characters OR the storyline. The emotion of the characters overrode any inconsistencies in the story for me. I was so deeply involved in the happenings between the key characters, I didn't notice much of anything else.<br />I would certainly read Ms. Kelly's work, again!	2002-01-18
US	50742388	R35SORE2VB0W2L	1551667916	654061600	Loving Jessie	Books	3	4	7	N	N	My first read by this author...	Jessica Sinclair, Matt Latimer, and Reilly McKinnon grew up together -- with ten years difference between Jessica and the two men. That didn't stop them from taking the ten year-old Jessica under their respective wings, teaching her to fish, camp, drive, etc., as the years went by. Matt eventually left town to travel the globe as a photojournalist. Jessica is now a successful caterer specializing in fancy desserts, and Reilly is a successful businessman married to the local beauty queen. When Matt returns to town after a fifteen-year absence to recoup from injuries received during an especially harrowing photo shoot in a war torn country, everyone's lives are turned upside down.<br />At thirty years old, Jessica is trying to outrun her biological clock. The unexpected sexual attraction and tight bond of friendship between Jessica and Matt gives her the idea that he would be the perfect candidate to help her create a child. Matt's response to her request is far from promising, but upon reflection he agrees -- on one condition -- they get married. Torn between her unrequited love for Reilly, the unexpected sexual attraction to Matt, and her burning desire to have a child, Jessica agrees to the marriage.<br />LOVING JESSIE started out interesting enough as the characters were introduced, but constant point of view changes between Jessie, Matt, Reilly and Reilly's wife, Dana, made for a choppy, sometimes confusing read. All of the characters, except Matt's brother, Gabe, slipped in and out of character so frequently that I found myself constantly being pulled out of the story. Actions and reactions between all of the characters were barely believable, and I found myself more annoyed than sympathetic toward them.<br />Ms. Schulze certainly has a way with dialogue, word usage and scene setting, but as this was more of a character-driven novel, the story just didn't work for me as a romance. Romance hardly entered the picture against the backdrop of varying sexual attractions and attention paid to Reilly and Dana's failing marriage.<br />LOVING JESSIE is my first read by Dallas Schulze, and if this is her typical writing style, then fans of Ms. Schulze will be pleased by the story. Too many inconsistencies in the characters' individual development and the distraction of being let into the minds of so many characters simply took away most of the enjoyment I might have otherwise experienced with a tighter, faster-paced book.ons and attention paid to Reilly and Dana's failing marriage.<br />LOVING JESSIE is my first read by Dallas Schulze, and if this is her typical writing style, then fans of Ms. Schulze will be pleased by the story. Too many inconsistencies in the characters' individual development and the distraction of being let into the minds of so many characters simply took away most of the enjoyment I might have otherwise experienced with a tighter, faster-paced book.	2002-01-05
US	50742388	R333X7FOL03NKJ	037379021X	957383117	Erotic Invitation (Midnight Fantasies)	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Exceptional characters and writing!	Carly Phillips has a fan for life in me! EROTIC INVITATION has it all - believable, in-depth characters with faults, foibles and scars, sizzling passion, snappy dialogue, and a fresh, original storyline. It was so nice to read about two people that had at least been aware of each other for awhile and didn't just want to jump each other's bones after a chance meeting. Sexual tension runs high as does emotional intensity. Instead of hoping right into bed with each other, Mallory and Jack tease, tantalize and pick each other's brains.<br />Ms. Phillips sure knows how to write. I couldn't put this book down and read it straight through in three hours. Its going on my keeper shelf for sure!	2001-12-31
US	50742388	R1YWBYH358IL0I	0373790244	21495275	Playing With Fire (Sexy City Nights)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Carrie Alexander heats up the pages of Blaze!	Lara Gladstone wants nothing to do with what she thinks is a woman's role in marriage.  Watching her mother give up all her dreams and hopes for her famous father, Lara wants only to lose herself in her art, and find someone who can fulfill her wildest fantasies, not fall in love.  A glance, a spark, and instant attraction to the man she sees across a crowded restaurant sets Lara into high gear.  Here is her hunter; the man she wants to chase her until capture and sensual satisfaction is eminent.<br />Daniel Savage is flummoxed.  He is being teased across a crowded room by a woman he can only describe as a lioness.  His competitive spirit ignited, Daniel is up for fun and games and leaves with the exciting, mysterious woman.  Startled to realize that he wants much more from her than a one-night stand, Daniel sets out to change Lara's mind about love, in a subtle, yet thorough manner.<br />PLAYING WITH FIRE is a fun, fantastical, highly sexual read.  For every woman that ever dreamed of acting on that secret fantasy of taking the gorgeous man across the room home and devouring him, this is the book for you!  Lara and Daniel are a match made in sexual tension heaven, but better still, roles are reversed in that Lara is afraid of commitment and Daniel is not.  Watching the by-play, listening to the intense and witty dialogue, feeling the leaves crunching beneath my feet as Daniel chased Lara through the woods near her home, all made for a vivid, exciting, satisfaction-guaranteed read.  The subplot involving Lara's best friend Bianca is heartwarming and tender, surprising in its intensity for the characters involved.<br />I highly recommend PLAYING WITH FIRE as a daring and original fantasy romance read.  Consciously, readers know this may not be a realistic storyline, but let yourself go and enjoy the unconventional love story that unfolds from the depths of sexuality.  Ms. Alexander's vivid imagination leaves readers reaching for the iced water and personal fan!	2001-12-25
US	50742388	R3THVUO1PMKV9A	0553583867	589314413	The Husband Test	Books	5	19	19	N	N	One of Ms. Krahn's best books, yet!	Eloise of Argent, novice and aspiring abbess at the Convent of the Brides of Virtue, is well intentioned and a little too eager to please which causes all kinds of trouble. The abbess is at the end of her tether when Eloise nearly burns down the kitchen. Salvation comes in the form of Peril, Earl of Whitmore, who is looking for a woman, er...a bride, someone of great virtue who can break the &quot;curse&quot; on his land -- of course, there is never any mention of the curse to the abbess. Eloise is shocked, dismayed, then pleased when the Reverend Mother chooses her to judge Peril's fitness to marry. This will be the chance she needs to prove herself worthy of her vocation.<br />Peril is far from happy to hear that he won't be walking away from the convent with his bride, but must first prove himself as reliable husband material. Fostered at the age of three, Peril earned his spurs at an early age and is a warrior, not a landowner. Since inheriting his late father's lands two years ago, he almost believes the villagers' fears that the curse placed upon the estate by the late Whitmore's mistress must be real. How can he hope to live up to &quot;Sister&quot; Eloise and the abbess's standards when he's unable to control his own estate?<br />Betina Krahn creates endearing and strong characters in this tender, yet dramatic tale of past love gone wrong and the people who try to make amends in the future. Filled with self-loathing at his overwhelming attraction to the novice, Peril is confused and tormented. When Eloise sees the softer side of Peril, she is determined to make him succeed in bringing himself, his lands and people up to par in order to fulfill his bride quest. Here are two very lost people, uncertain of their true lots in life, who eventually find solace in one another, but with the knowledge that it will never, can never, culminate in a love match.<br />Fast paced and rich in historical detail, THE HUSBAND TEST is a delightful, conflict-filled read with many twists, turns, and surprises. Ms. Krahn paints vivid word pictures of medieval times, peoples' superstitions and the power of love to conquer evil and betrayal.<br />I highly recommend THE HUSBAND TEST as classic writing from Ms. Krahn -- an historical romance not to be missed.any twists, turns, and surprises. Ms. Krahn paints vivid word pictures of medieval times, peoples' superstitions and the power of love to conquer evil and betrayal.<br />I highly recommend THE HUSBAND TEST as classic writing from Ms. Krahn -- an historical romance not to be missed.	2001-12-10
US	50742388	R2FGD9T3A3CLNG	0380818213	786241483	The Prince's Bride (Effington Family & Friends)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Wonderful &quot;Prince Charming&quot; story...	From the age of ten, Lady Jocelyn Shelton dreamed of becoming a princess. Now, nine years later, it seems her dream may be realized when the visiting, and unmarried, crown prince of the Kingdom of Greater Avalonia takes a definite interest in her at a party given to him by the ton. Agreeing to meet privately with Prince Alexei, confident of a forthcoming marriage proposal, Jocelyn is privy to a conversation between an apparently nefarious scheming couple. They aren't aware that she can't see them without her spectacles, therefore unable to identify them, and one of the dastards throws a knife at her, barely missing her head. Enter Randall, Viscount Beaumont, who promptly kisses Jocelyn to prevent her from screaming, unfortunately allowing the villains to escape.<br />Rand Beaumont is on a reluctant mission to protect the prince of Avalonia. When a dangerous plot to usurp the prince's position is uncovered and Lady Jocelyn appears to unwittingly be involved, Rand vows to protect her, her reputation and her family. Marriage to the unwilling lady seems the only course of action. Rand has his own secrets that just might turn Lady Jocelyn's dreams into reality, however he prefers to have her fall in love with him for his own merits, not his title or wealth.<br />THE PRINCE'S BRIDE is a dark and dangerous tale of betrayal, surprising identities and the power of love to overcome all. Victoria Alexander shines in developing characters that leap off the pages with witty and compelling dialogue and storyline to match. One of her more serious novels, Ms. Alexander still adds a dash of humor to this truly romantic fairy-tale story. The banter between Jocelyn and Rand is in turns funny and heartwarming. Prince Alexei is full of surprises that keep the newlyweds on their toes and on the move. Rand's elderly uncle Nigel endears readers with his crusty, yet lovable disposition and propensity for doling out advice, wanted or not.<br />THE PRINCE'S BRIDE is a lovely tapestry woven around Regency England and the small country of Avalonia, rich in descriptive and narrative prose. Victoria Alexander never fails to enthrall this reader with her incredible imagination and writing skills. I highly recommend this as one of Ms. Alexander's best books to date.round Regency England and the small country of Avalonia, rich in descriptive and narrative prose. Victoria Alexander never fails to enthrall this reader with her incredible imagination and writing skills. I highly recommend this as one of Ms. Alexander's best books to date.	2001-12-10
US	50742388	R28GUFOO00JH5E	0373271905	923899274	Honky-Tonk Cinderella: How to Marry a Monarch (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1120)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Karen Templeton's trademark characterization shines!	Luanne Evans Henderson is currently dealing with the death of her race car driver husband, her ten year-old grieving son and the impending birth of her baby.  As if this all isn't enough, the man who walked out on her eleven years ago has now shown up on her doorstep.  She had known him only as Alek Hastings, fellow race car driver and friend of her late husband.  They spent one intimate night together, then Alek disappeared -- leaving Luanne pregnant and alone.  Jeff Henderson was her salvation, offering marriage, security and a father for her son.  The last person she needs back in her life is Alek, resurrecting long-buried memories and turning her and her son's lives upside down.<br />Prince Aleksander Vlastos of Carpathia had been sowing his wild oats eleven years ago before having to settle down as leader of his country.  Never did he dream that he would regret leaving Luanne behind all those years ago.  Now, with the knowledge that she is the mother of his heir, Alek is back to atone for his mistakes and those of his friend, Jeff Henderson.  Convincing Luanne of that, however, is another story.<br />Karen Templeton is a master at in-depth characterization.  Luanne is a tough cookie on the outside, confused and emotional on the inside.  Alek is the perfect foil for her; compassionate, caring and as stubborn as Luanne.  Luanne's ten year-old son Chase is an emotional and integral addition to the story, delivering realistic, emotional, and tumultuous dialogue and actions.  HONKY-TONK CINDERELLA is filled with Ms. Templeton's trademark descriptive and narrative prose, witty and realistic dialogue and down-to-earth, real-life people.  A heart-wrenching twist near the end will have readers reaching for the tissues.<br />Readers will feel a true sense of affinity with these characters as they travel along the path of their incredible journey discovering each other and the power of familial love.  I recommend HONKY-TONK CINDERELLA as one of Ms. Templeton's best works to date!to date!	2001-12-03
US	50742388	R2A349ILNGGE17	0380819570	109656677	Here and Now	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Not my favorite by this author	New Jersey -- 1926 and 2001<br />In the space of twenty-four hours, Suzanne McDermott's husband leaves her for her best friend, she fishes a drowning man out of a creek, administers CPR to him (did I mention she's eight and a half month's pregnant?), gives birth, goes home the following morning, climbs up and down stairs, starts laundry, makes lunch, etc., etc.  A tad unbelievable?  I thought so.  Especially when the man Suzanne rescues is a time traveler from the roaring twenties, but he is capable of driving her to the hospital in her SUV, can find her house by way of the map she has drawn for him, and has barely any problem adjusting to the twenty-first century until halfway through the book.<br /><br />One minute Charles Garrity is standing on a bridge facing off against his supposed best friend, who is holding a gun to him, demanding that Charles give over his deed.  The next thing he knows, Charlie is being kissed by a beautiful pregnant woman while his head is on fire.  Apparently the &quot;friend&quot; got off a lucky shot as Charlie jumped into the creek.  Insulted, the woman informs Charlie that she was saving his life, NOT kissing him!  Amidst all the confusion, the woman goes into labor and Charlie must carry her to her vehicle and drive her to the hospital where everyone takes it for granted that he's her husband.  Charlie starts to feel a little out of place -- and for good reason.  This is not the Baltimore, Maryland HE knows!<br /><br />HERE AND NOW literally starts off with a bang -- to Charlie's head.  The prologue looks promising, but the novel goes downhill from there.  Suzanne wavers between being a self-pitying, whiny woman and Super Mom.  Charlie's actions are more suited to a knight of old than a man from the 1920s.  Not that there's anything wrong with that, but it just didn't mesh with the character he was supposed to be.  Suzanne's soon-to-be-ex-husband left much to be desired, as did her best friend.  With friends like that, who needs enemies?<br /><br />With the exception of the prologue, the beginning of the book is slow paced, focusing on Suzanne, her problems, and Charlie helping her out.  The second half starts to pick up the pace when Charlie discovers he's been caring for and growing attached to his worst enemy's great-grandson!  Now, Suzanne and Charlie need to figure out what really happened on that day so many decades ago.  What happened to the guy who shot him?  Who did Charlie's girlfriend, Grace, marry, if she married at all?  The answers really won't surprise you.<br /><br />Constance O'Day Flannery was the first time travel romance author I read, many years ago.  One of my very favorite of her books is SECOND CHANCES.  HERE AND NOW simply contains too many inconsistencies, and I never really connected with either Suzanne or Charlie.  Of course, with a time travel romance, readers are expected to suspend their belief in certain things.  I, however, found myself having to suspend my belief considerably, which pulled me out of the story several times.  Near the end of the book, the bad guys get their comeuppances and the humor of the scene worked.  I just wish the rest had been as good.<BR> <BR>With the exception of the prologue, the beginning of the book is slow paced, focusing on Suzanne, her problems, and Charlie helping her out.  The second half starts to pick up the pace when Charlie discovers he's been caring for and growing attached to his worst enemy's great-grandson!  Now, Suzanne and Charlie need to figure out what really happened on that day so many decades ago.  What happened to the guy who shot him?  Who did Charlie's girlfriend, Grace, marry, if she married at all?  The answers really won't surprise you.<BR> <BR>Constance O'Day Flannery was the first time travel romance author I read, many years ago.  One of my very favorite of her books is SECOND CHANCES.  HERE AND NOW simply contains too many inconsistencies, and I never really connected with either Suzanne or Charlie.  Of course, with a time travel romance, readers are expected to suspend their belief in certain things.  I, however, found myself having to suspend my belief considerably, which pulled me out of the story several times.  Near the end of the book, the bad guys get their comeuppances and the humor of the scene worked.  I just wish the rest had been as good.	2001-11-21
US	50742388	R3KYLSSIDS23RS	0821770969	81406429	A Rogue For Christmas (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Fresh voice in Regency romance!	While on her way to a pawnshop, fourteen year-old Mary Ann Whittaker is assaulted and very nearly seriously harmed by a would-be thief.  Rescue comes in the form of an anonymous golden savior, who quickly beats the thief into submission and escorts Mary Ann on her way.  After a severe lecture on the impropriety of a young lady traveling alone, the man offers to conduct Mary Ann's business for her.  Knowing the sale of her tiny pearl ring will not raise a quarter of the money she hopes for, the gentleman adds extra to give Mary Ann and her destitute family a happy Christmas.  Christmas morning finds a fat Christmas goose and gifts at the Whittaker household, courtesy of Mary Ann's mysterious rescuer.<br />Spellbound for seven years after being rescued on Christmas Eve by the mysterious stranger, Mary Ann refuses all offers of marriage, hoping to again meet her golden rescuer.  This seems to be a farfetched idea in her family members' collective minds, but Mary Ann somehow knows he'll return.  And he does, crashing the family ball -- only to be thrown out on his arse by Mary Ann's protective brother-in-law.  Never wavering in her faith in Lionel St. James, the man who'd come to her aid, she refuses to believe he is a rake and womanizer, despite all the rumors.  Mary Ann is determined to get her man -- whether he wishes to be gotten or not!<br />A ROGUE FOR CHRISTMAS is a delightful, warm, refreshing romance.  Mary Ann is a singular heroine in that her love and loyalty toward St. James never wavers.  There are no trite misunderstandings or jumping to conclusions on the part of either the heroine or hero.  Mary Ann even enlists the help of her female relatives to stand by St. James. After being disowned by his own father in favor of his half-brother, St. James gave up on love and trust long ago.  Confused and overrun by Mary Ann's determined females relatives, he finally gives in and accompanies them to Mary Ann's brother-in-law's country estate for Christmas.  There he learns that loyalty and familial ties are a formidible barrier.<br />Tightly written, with sparkling dialogue and true-to-life characters and plot, A ROGUE FOR CHRISTMAS is a tender love story with a dash of mystery and danger.  I highly recommend Kate Huntington as a Regency author to watch.  This book is a definite keeper!e learns that loyalty and familial ties are a formidible barrier.<br />Tightly written, with sparkling dialogue and true-to-life characters and plot, A ROGUE FOR CHRISTMAS is a tender love story with a dash of mystery and danger.  I highly recommend Kate Huntington as a Regency author to watch.  This book is a definite keeper!	2001-11-21
US	50742388	R2BSJQZZB7A856	0373790198	108708882	You Sexy Thing!	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Husband and wife writing duo set Blaze afire!	Dr. Dylan Fairbanks is distracted.  Frustrated that he can't get his card key to work on his hotel room door, he enlists the aid of a nearby housekeeper.  Alas, there's a reason the key wouldn't work; its NOT his room.  Instead, it belongs to one Dr. Grace Mattias, aka Dr. Hottie -- who just so happens to be taking a shower without the curtain closed.  Dylan quickly exits before he swallows his tongue.  The encounter doesn't bode well for his four-year state of celibacy.  Neither does the fact that Dylan's PR person and Grace's PR person think it would be a hoot to pair these two up for their upcoming book tour.  How ever will Dylan survive his gorgeous rival?<br /><br /> Dr. Grace Mattias is shocked to see that her co-speaker on a local talk show is the same peeping Tom who walked in on her showering earlier that day.  But, Grace is a trooper and Dr. Dylan is the epitome of a hunk, even if he is set in his concept of marriage before sex.  Grace is more of a free spirit and sets out to loosen up the stuffy Dr. Fairbanks.<br /><br /> These two sex therapists from different sides of the fence burn up the pages of YOU SEXY THING!. Free-spirited, communal living parents and a disaster of a first marriage turn Dylan Fairbanks into the serious, celibate person he is. His total opposite, Grace Mattias puts up a convincing front as the doctor who believes in free, albeit protected, sex, promoting it with a vengeance.  Nobody needs to know that her information comes from some eight-hundred case studies instead of personal experience.  Dylan's parents are hilarious, his mother more grounded than Dylan thought possible.  Grace's parents are highly conservative and the scene where her mother approaches Grace for sexual advice is priceless.<br /><br /> YOU SEXY THING! is pure fun, flowing seamlessly from one conflict filled scene to the next.  I laughed out loud at many of Dylan's inner thoughts about Grace and where they led.  How on earth can he stick to his principles around Dr. Hottie?? Grace sure doesn't make it easy for him. Dialogue is filled with innuendo and sexual tension runs hot and heavy.<br /><br /> Be sure to have asbestos gloves, a bucket of ice water, and your significant other nearby as you race through the pages of this fast-paced , hotter than hot, highly entertaining book.  This was my first read by Tori Carrington and certainly not my last!tie?? Grace sure doesn't make it easy for him. Dialogue is filled with innuendo and sexual tension runs hot and heavy.  <BR> <BR> Be sure to have asbestos gloves, a bucket of ice water, and your significant other nearby as you race through the pages of this fast-paced , hotter than hot, highly entertaining book.  This was my first read by Tori Carrington and certainly not my last!	2001-11-15
US	50742388	R1EDF8A48Z5A36	0380815699	162151197	The Nightingale's Song	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Perfection from first page to last!	Baltimore, Maryland - 1874<br />Orphaned at twelve while immigrating to America with her mother, Maggie Quinn is whisked away to St. Columba's orphanage in Baltimore, Maryland. Fourteen years later, Maggie is mentor and teacher to the orphans there, contemplating becoming a nun -- until the day Dr. Gordon Kincaid comes to St. Columba's and turns Maggie's world upside down. One look at the debonair Dr. Kincaid confirms the parentage of Maggie's favorite orphan, five year-old Clara.<br />Gordon Kincaid arrives at St. Columba's with a bequest from his late father only to find out that he fathered a child five years previously while involved in a brief affair. Gordon has been in limbo for ten years since losing his wife and receiving a severe injury in the Civil War. His body has healed, but not his soul. Then, he meets Maggie Quinn. Her gentle spirit, deep and abiding faith, angelic singing voice, and innocent sensuality call to him. As Gordon acquaints himself with his daughter, so, too, does he re-acquaint himself with his heart and soul.<br />Maggie and Gordon are two melancholy people as different in class as any two people can be in that trying time of restoration after the Civil War. How they meet may be by chance, but the reader feels that fate definitely has a strong hand in bringing these two together. Clara is a delightful five year-old sprite who somehow knows she belongs with Gordon, but is not willing to give up &quot;her&quot; Maggie. Due to the evil gossip of a jealous suitor for Gordon's attentions, Gordon and Maggie marry and move to his estate in Virginia, where a whole new set of problems arises. However, these characters weather the storms, and their relationship develops to a whole new level. Secondary characters, from Father Fitzhugh, Maggie's rescuer all those years ago, to Gordon's twelve-year-old son from his previous marriage, all come together to enhance this intense love story. Dialogue and interactions between all of the characters quite simply sing, as do the narrative and descriptive prose.<br />THE NIGHTINGALE'S SONG is perfection from first page to last. Debut author Kathleen Eschenburg delivers a heart-warming, tender, enthralling story rich in flawless characterization and the history of THE post-Civil War ERA.<br />Tantalizing all of the senses and engaging your every emotion, THE NIGHTINGALE'S SONG will leave you eagerly anticipating Ms. Eschenburg's next book!mply sing, as do the narrative and descriptive prose.<br />THE NIGHTINGALE'S SONG is perfection from first page to last. Debut author Kathleen Eschenburg delivers a heart-warming, tender, enthralling story rich in flawless characterization and the history of THE post-Civil War ERA.<br />Tantalizing all of the senses and engaging your every emotion, THE NIGHTINGALE'S SONG will leave you eagerly anticipating Ms. Eschenburg's next book!	2001-11-13
US	50742388	R2M7H89Q6WNB5R	0553582836	60609117	Diamond in the Ruff	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A feel good/have fun story laced with suspense	Josephine &quot;Joey&quot; DeMato is proprietor of The Perfect Wedding.  Lately, though, that seems to be a misnomer as Joey is confronted with all manner of ups and downs while trying to conduct her business.  The latest cog in the wheel is the smart aleck cop who pulls her over for speeding.  Irritation quickly sparks between the two before Mr. Macho Cop lets Joey continue on her way.  The fates decide to tantalize Joey further by sticking her with her honeymooning friend's two obnoxious corgi dogs, and a chance meeting in a pet store with Joey's former college roommate, who just so happens to need a wedding planner, like immediately.  Although Joey had planned to take a hard-earned vacation, she can't say no to Alicia -- or her money.  When the time comes to meet the groom -- yup, you guessed it -- he turns out to be Mr. Macho Cop.<br />Ben Ramsey is temporarily demoted to regular cop from detective after having a confrontation with his boss. Despite that, he should be on top of the world; he's marrying gorgeous, rich Alicia Somers in a month's time. So, why is Ben starting to feel like a &quot;kept&quot; man? Matters deteriorate further when Ben and Alicia go to the wedding planner's for dinner. He finds himself face to face with the woman he gave the speeding ticket to earlier in the day. At Alicia's urging, Ben apologizes to Joey and admits he's been a little cranky since the demotion. Being a patrol cop is getting on his nerves.<br />Lydia Keane is a reincarnated corgi, of all things. If she can atone for her sins in her former life, Lydia will finally earn her wings. Now named Piggy, Lydia is disgusted with her appearance and inability to get her people to pay attention to her when they're in danger. Hilarity ensues when Joey, Alicia and Ben travel to the ski resort that Alicia has decided is the perfect spot for her and Ben's wedding.<br />DIAMOND IN THE RUFF is pure fun with a smattering of suspense.  Just when you think Emily Carmichael will never be able to carry off the romantic aspect of the book, all heck breaks loose. Poor Ben is Alicia's knight in shining armor after saving her life from a stalker.  When these two open their eyes and their hearts to what is really going on between them, the drama begins, but the humor never lets up. Joey can't believe she's lusting after Alicia's fiance and tries desperately to avoid Ben at all costs.  Alicia, herself, is clueless until it's almost too late.  The tension and conflict between all of the characters is believable and endearing and Lydia/Piggy is sorely put upon in her role as matchmaker/guard dog extraordanaire.<br />Emily Carmichael delivers another hilarious, yet poignant story of true love and how some people find it in the most unexpected place and manner.  I highly recommend DIAMOND IN THE RUFF as a feel-good, have fun story with an unusual storyline and compelling twists and turns.to carry off the romantic aspect of the book, all heck breaks loose. Poor Ben is Alicia's knight in shining armor after saving her life from a stalker.  When these two open their eyes and their hearts to what is really going on between them, the drama begins, but the humor never lets up. Joey can't believe she's lusting after Alicia's fiance and tries desperately to avoid Ben at all costs.  Alicia, herself, is clueless until it's almost too late.  The tension and conflict between all of the characters is believable and endearing and Lydia/Piggy is sorely put upon in her role as matchmaker/guard dog extraordanaire.  <br />Emily Carmichael delivers another hilarious, yet poignant story of true love and how some people find it in the most unexpected place and manner.  I highly recommend DIAMOND IN THE RUFF as a feel-good, have fun story with an unusual storyline and compelling twists and turns.	2001-11-12
US	50742388	RQNEJS01LM8GG	0380817411	484718442	The Outlaw and The Lady	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Lorraine just keeps getting better!	Fortune, Texas and Mexico - 1891<br />Notorious outlaw Lee Raven abducts Angela Bainbridge when she stumbles upon him robbing Fortune's bank. He doesn't realize the lady can't identify him until it's too late to turn back. The last thing he needs is this spirited, courageous blind woman slowing him down in his quest for revenge and retaliation against the man who destroyed his family. Now he risks capture and death by keeping her with him. Raven is determined his remaining family will not suffer for his crimes so he takes Angela back to his sibling's farm with him. How on earth will they be able to remain anonymous with half of Texas out looking for Angela?<br />Angela Bainbridge swears she'll never again take another midnight walk. She is mortified and angry that she was so easily captured by the supposed murderer and thief, Lee Raven. After spending several days on the run with him, then more time with his family, Angela finds it very hard to believe the rumors surrounding the mysterious man. He has been nothing but a gentleman to her which leaves her both confused and intrigued.<br />Lorraine Heath delivers another powerful romance filled with emotional and sensuous impact. Lee and Angela both suffer from past hurts and misunderstandings garnering sympathy and compassion from readers. It was delightful to re-visit with the characters of Ms. Heath's previous Rogues of Fortune, Texas series and meet their children. I look forward to more forthcoming stories of the daughters of Fortune.<br />Ms. Heath is a master at her craft, penning a lively, heart-tugging love story sure to satisfy her many fans. THE OUTLAW AND THE LADY is not to missed - it now sits on my keeper shelf along with her other compelling novels.	2001-10-24
US	50742388	R53AYSLDN1WL1	0425181979	192867956	My Heart Stood Still (Macleod Family)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Another wonderful paranormal romance by Kurland.	Thomas McKinnon is having visions. Visions of Mickey Mouse ears floating in the back of his car, in the bushes in front of his house, and the last straw: settled on top of the head of a Scottish Highlander decked out in full battle regalia in his living room. He determines this to be a sure sign that he needs a vacation. The successful businessman packs up, closes his seaside Maine house and flies off to Scotland to restore the crumbling old castle he's recently purchased. Poor Thomas, however, hasn't escaped his visions. Upon his arrival in Scotland they only multiply. He apparently has inherited &quot;the sight&quot; his mother always claimed to have. Thomas curses the ability to see and hear ghosts until he visits his castle and meets the &quot;lady of the keep&quot; - Iolanthe MacLeod. Hauntingly beautiful and deeply melancholy, Iolanthe affects Thomas like no other. His goal is to make this spirit/woman happy, any way he can.<br />Iolanthe MacLeod chose death by the sword of her new husband six centuries ago, rather than reveal her family's secret -- the only reason the &quot;English-man&quot; married her, come to find out. Former dreams of a darkly handsome, strong man, with a mighty sword coming to rescue Iolanthe from her miserable life with her stepfamily, were just that -- dreams. Now, centuries later, the man in her dreams stands before her. Too late.<br />The two develop a tentative, heartwarming relationship and as it progresses, Iolanthe is happy to just gaze upon Thomas and talk to him. Thomas is willing to settle for that, too, until Iolanthe's secret is revealed. There is a chance they could be together in the mortal world. Thomas travels to Iolanthe's ancestral home to uncover the truth and the possibilities.<br />Lynn Kurland delivers a powerfully emotional tale of romantic love between two beings seemingly fated to never be together in the mortal world. Thomas and Iolanthe are two very sympathetic and three dimensional characters. Their characteristics and dialogue are both humorous and heart-tugging. The ghosts are real in and of themselves, lending both humor and drama to the tale, &quot;helping&quot; Thomas and Iolanthe along the way.<br />Lynn Kurland is a master at wringing emotion from the reader. She melds together all aspects of the story seamlessly and delights us with glimpses of characters from past novels who all tie in with Thomas and Iolanthe. A surpising poignant twist toward the end will leave readers breathless and reaching for the tissues.<br />MY HEART STOOD STILL is a heart-stopping, fast paced novel of true love. Don't expect steamy sex -- that isn't Kurland's style. Expect a strong, yet compassionate and loving hero, willing to do anything to win his lady. The lady, however, needs a wee bit more convincing that it's possible her dreams just might come true. Grab the tissues and settle in for a highly satisfying ten hanky read!istics and dialogue are both humorous and heart-tugging. The ghosts are real in and of themselves, lending both humor and drama to the tale, &quot;helping&quot; Thomas and Iolanthe along the way. <br />Lynn Kurland is a master at wringing emotion from the reader. She melds together all aspects of the story seamlessly and delights us with glimpses of characters from past novels who all tie in with Thomas and Iolanthe. A surpising poignant twist toward the end will leave readers breathless and reaching for the tissues. <br />MY HEART STOOD STILL is a heart-stopping, fast paced novel of true love. Don't expect steamy sex -- that isn't Kurland's style. Expect a strong, yet compassionate and loving hero, willing to do anything to win his lady. The lady, however, needs a wee bit more convincing that it's possible her dreams just might come true. Grab the tissues and settle in for a highly satisfying ten hanky read!	2001-10-17
US	50742388	R2DBGVJ6EQYVVO	1575668696	311816689	All Through The Night	Books	4	0	0	N	N	SATISFY ME's Cameron can &quot;pet&quot; me, anytime! *G*	Not being too familiar with the other authors in this anthology, I went right to Lori's story and loved it. Cameron is not only sexy, but sensitive and accommodating. *wink* Asia doesn't realize what hits her until he has her right where he wants her! Delightful characters and a heartwarming story mixed with erotic romance make for another great read by Lori Foster. Don't miss it!	2001-10-16
US	50742388	R2IPX3LOD6I0M5	0380818035	134653292	A Notorious Love (Swanlea Spinsters, Book 2)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Exciting Regency romp	London, 1815<br />Lady Helena Laverick seeks out the only man who can help find her missing sister, Juliet.  An extremely proper lady, Helena finds nothing in her personal bible, MRS. NUNLEY'S GUIDE TO ETIQUETTE FOR YOUNG LADIES, to help deal with the rascal, Daniel Brennan, and their precariously intimate position: if Helena wants to travel with him to find Juliet, she will have to agree to pose as his wife, for safety's sake.<br />Son of the late, notorious highwayman &quot;Danny Boy&quot; Brennan, Daniel himself is a former smuggler. Despite being of a lower class than Lady Helena, Daniel has met her before and sees this adventure as a way to become better acquainted with the lady. He is intrigued and admires her spirit, determination and genuine concern for Juliet.<br />Their dangerous quest takes them along seedy back roads of London and into smuggler's haunts that are no place for a lady. Being in such close quarters causes sparks and chemistry galore between Daniel and Helena, which they try to ignore. Daniel wonders how a lady could possibly develop a tendre for a former smuggler, even though he is now a respectable, successful businessman.<br />Both Helenea and Daniel must overcome past hurts in order to move forward in their relationship. His rough upbringing, the childhood disease that left her with a lame leg, and her suspicions whenever a man finds her attractive have the two at logger heads more often than not. Daniel, however, has never met a lady such as Helena, and she has never before met anyone who allows her to just be herself.<br />I recommend A NOTORIOUS LOVE as a delightful, tender, emotional read with a smattering of dark moments that lend to the believability of this fast-paced tale.	2001-09-30
US	50742388	R3V2B1RV29EW8E	044023655X	631228888	Kiss of the Highlander (The Highlander Series, Book 4)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Packed with emotion and intensity!	Grief from the recent death of her parents, and the desire to escape from a humdrum life, send genius Gwen Cassidy on a vacation to the Scottish Highlands. She also hopes to meet a man she deems worthy of the gift of her innocence. Never in Gwen's wildest dreams does she expect the circumstances that lead to her finding that man -- or the incredible changes he will bring to her life and her heart.<br />Drustan MacKeltar is an enchanted Highland laird -- literally. Awakened from a five-hundred year long spell by a thoroughly bewitching woman, Drustan is more than a little confused both by her and his surroundings. Before long the Druid in him accepts his fate, but he vows to change it by returning to the past. Gwen Cassidy is to be his unwitting pawn in the event his plan backfires.<br />KISS OF THE HIGHLANDER is a roller coaster ride of incredible descriptive and narrative prose, intense emotion and steamy sensuality.  Sparks and chemistry fly between Gwen and Drustan; their dialogue enhances the development of their relationship and I swooned over Drustan's Scottish brogue. Very different from her previous time travel novels, Ms. Moning takes a more scientific approach to the theory and concept of time travel making this her most complex novel to date.<br />Gwen and Drustan must overcome several serious obstacles in their quest to find the treacherous villain plotting against them. Secondary characters are just as in-depth as the hero and heroine and contribute much to their support. I can't wait to read about Drustan's twin brother, Dageus, in DARK HIGHLANDER, coming in the fall of 2002. The teaser at the end of KISS OF THE HIGHLANDER is most intriguing.<br />RITA award winning romance author Karen Marie Moning pens another contender for that coveted award. Kudos!	2001-09-19
US	50742388	R1UXT4Z9L3IJOV	0821767879	137212515	Highland Lady	Books	4	16	16	N	N	New to me author and wonderful!	When her sister, Roslyn, is kidnapped by members of the neighboring Forrest clan of Rancoff Castle, Lady Elen Burnard of Dunblane races to her rescue. As luck would have it, she and her men come across the Laird of Rancoff returning with his men from a hunting party. With the element of surprise on their side, the Dunblanes capture the Rancoffs. Lady Elen will use the laird as a bartering tool for her sister's release.<br />Munro Forrest, Laird of Rancoff, is at first amused by his capture and the tenacity and cleverness of his old adversary's daughter. His amusement quickly turns to frustration when he realizes Elen is serious about this prisoner business and keeps him locked up below ground in the castle's oubliette. He knows nothing of Roslyn's disappearance and is confused when Elen informs him that her people saw the kidnappers wearing the colors of the Forrest<br />clan.<br />Days pass and messages sent to Rancoff castle go ignored. Munro and Elen develop a fragile relationship as they try to discover the truth behind the kidnapping. Betrayal and greed from an unexpected quarter flummox the two. Additionally, conflict over land stolen from the Burnards by the Forrests many years ago heightens this tense, fast paced story.<br />Ms. Faulkner is a master storyteller and creator of intriguing, real life characters. Munro retains his unusual sense of humor despite his precarious position and Elen is a strong, yet flexible heroine trying to uphold her father's dying wish that she continue in his place as laird. Sexual tension runs high between these two class equals. The bond of friendship they first develop is refreshing and believable.<br />A compelling page turner, HIGHLAND LADY is the first of Colleen Faulkner's works that I've read. It won't be the last. This one's a keeper!	2001-09-10
US	50742388	R9CNHWZ4L0N68	0743412788	179923501	To Tame a Wild Heart (Sonnet Books)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Poignant and emotional	1796<br />A devastating carriage accident involving a duke's wife, daughter, maid and her daughter opens this tale, hooking readers from page one.<br />1813<br />Sarah knows only that the Murphys found her wandering the Highlands at about age four.  With rags as clothes, a panflute we later find out she uses to communicate with animals, and an expensive emerald ring in her possession, Sarah has no memory of how she came to be in the area.  The Murphys took her in and sold the ring for the money.  Twenty-one years later Sarah has moved into her own croft and is content with her lot in life -- until the day her<br />&quot;father&quot; comes for her, having traced her by following the trail of the sold ring.<br />Colin Murray, Earl of Cawdor and the heir before Sarah's return, is recruited to see to it that she is educated and polished to take her place in society as befits a duke's daughter. Colin is told in no uncertain terms that Sarah is not for him to dally with.  The duke hopes the couple will benefit each other -- Colin teaching Sarah the rules of the ton, Sarah teaching Colin how to return to the man he was before leaving the country estate for<br />London.<br />Tracy Fobes is a master storyteller with an imagination that knows no bounds.  TO TAME A WILD HEART is filled with endearing, charming characters, both human and animal.  An unexpected and poignant secondary romance is integral to Sarah and Colin finding their own happiness.  Sarah's unusual and magical rapport with animals is a delight to witness, as is Colin's transformation from London rake to hero.  Several unexpected twists, turns and surprises<br />make this a fast-paced, engaging read.<br />I highly recommend TO TAME A WILD HEART as an enthralling and emotional love story not to be missed.	2001-09-10
US	50742388	R8KV4RDCD0MIM	1583456724	871579432	The Marriage Contract	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Delightful!	Cara Carvarlho is heartbroken that her parents are selling the family home and moving to Florida.  While going through boxes to sort items for a yard sale, Cara's mother, Ruth, discovers a seventeen year old birthday card to Cara.  Penned on the back is a marriage contract of sorts, signed by Devin Michaels:  If neither one is married by the age of thirty-five, they will marry each other.  Cara is filled with tender memories of that summer long ago.<br />Ruth is determined to bring the two back together, even though Cara is practically engaged to another man.<br />Devin Michaels has had enough of the dog-eat-dog world of criminal law.  Burned out and experiencing a form of mid-life crisis, he leaps at the invititation from Ruth Carvalho to attend her daughter Cara's thirty-fifth birthday party.  Little does he know the woman has much bigger plans for Devin and Cara.<br />Ms. Mondello creates a believable situation peopled with charming characters, natural dialogue and humor.  Sensual tension between Devin and Cara heats up the pages while Roger, Cara's partner, is oblivious in a humorous way.<br />I highly recommend THE MARRIAGE CONTRACT for a delightful, heartwarming and light-hearted read about two old friends discovering there is always a second chance for true love and happiness.	2001-09-10
US	50742388	R3E95CVZ4ZGJUP	0380803313	329588049	Never Marry a Cowboy (Rogues in Texas)	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Lorraine Heath always delivers!	Fortune, Texas, 1870<br />Christian Montgomery is one of three Englishmen banished from their homeland who make their way to America. Having spent the last four years working beside his two friends and watching them fall in love and start families, Christian is resigned to bachelorhood. After making a decision and acting upon it while still in England, Christian has consigned himself to his own private hell. What better way to court death than to accept the position of<br />sheriff in Fortune? When his friend David Robertson comes to visit from Dallas begging an unusual favor, Christian is astounded and balks. The man wants him to give his ailing, possibly dying sister a chance at being a bride for a day. Christian's one true love died in his arms; he can never go through that devastation again. When he meets the ethereal Ashton Robertson, all of his misgivings fly out the window and his protective instincts rush to<br />the forefront. Knowing he is probably making the second biggest mistake of his life, Christian agrees to marry Ashton.<br />Ashton has faced death all of her young life. She is mortified to learn about her brother's request, but secretly thrilled when Christian Montgomery agrees to give her a wedding day. Ashton has admired and coveted Christian for her own since meeting him at her brother's home a few years before. Suffering from consumption, Ashton has no idea how much longer she has to live and can think of no better way to start facing a little bit of life than<br />with Christian, even if it is just for a day.<br />What transpires is a tender and beautiful story about one man's quest to atone for his sins by giving someone a brief glimpse at true happiness. Christian Montgomery is a true hero, strong on the outside, generous and giving on the inside. Ashton appears frail and sickly, but when faced with a frightening situation, surprises herself with an inner strength she never dreamed she possessed. The couple develops a strong bond of friendship while<br />trying to ignore deeper feelings that may never get the chance to blossom. It was delightful to visit with the characters from the first two books of the series, A ROGUE IN TEXAS and NEVER LOVE A COWBOY, characters that have grown and developed, and have helped to shape Christian into the man he will become. Christian also shares a poignant relationship with his twin brother, Christopher Montgomery, who finds his own happiness in this tale.<br />Lorraine Heath does for Texas what Nora Roberts does for Ireland. A powerful storyteller, Ms. Heath engages all of a reader's emotions and senses, immersing them thoroughly into this fast paced, gripping tale. I highly recommend NEVER MARRY A COWBOY as Lorraine Heath at her best.trying to ignore deeper feelings that may never get the chance to blossom. It was delightful to visit with the characters from the first two books of the series, A ROGUE IN TEXAS and NEVER LOVE A COWBOY, characters that have grown and developed, and have helped to shape Christian into the man he will become. Christian also shares a poignant relationship with his twin brother, Christopher Montgomery, who finds his own happiness in this tale.<BR>Lorraine Heath does for Texas what Nora Roberts does for Ireland. A powerful storyteller, Ms. Heath engages all of a reader's emotions and senses, immersing them thoroughly into this fast paced, gripping tale. I highly recommend NEVER MARRY A COWBOY as Lorraine Heath at her best.	2001-09-10
US	50742388	RS995ULSJH1DK	0451204220	994539687	Reclaiming Lord Rockleigh (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Nancy Butler delivers, again!	Mercy Tatlock and her brother Toby are in London to confront Lord Rockleigh Conniston, third son of the Duke of Barrisford, for filing a libel suit against their father -- editor of THE TIPTREE TRUMPET.  Mercy finds a nefarious, care-for-none rake who challenges her seventeen year-old brother to a duel.  Mercy hides Toby, then sets out to trick and embarrass Rockleigh into giving up the idea of the duel and the libel suit.<br />Lord Rockleigh Conniston is going through a rough patch. The tenacious Miss Tatlock and her brother have turned his world topsy turvy. An admitted profligate, womanizer and general ne'er do well, Roc hides his true self behind this false facade. However, the editorial in THE TIPTREE TRUMPET portrays him as something evil and Roc will get satisfaction.  At first furious at Miss Tatlock's attempts to change his mind about ruining her father, Roc soon finds he is not so much angry as he is intrigued and aroused by the little termagant.<br />The spats between Mercy and Roc are delicious; dialogue between all of the characters throughout the book sparkles, as does the unusual storyline.  A slower pace than what Ms. Butler usually writes only increases the intensity of the telling. I hope, and look forward to stories about Mercy's brother Toby and Roc's second oldest brother -- mere glimpses only whet the reader's appetite for more.<br />Endearing characters, a solid, original plot and Ms. Butler's talent for creating a few surprises throughout, make RECLAIMING LORD ROCKLEIGH a must read and a definite candidate for the keeper shelf!	2001-09-09
US	50742388	R1CDEYP3BE0TEO	0380815532	969738482	Some Kind of Wonderful	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Some kind of wonderful is just that!	What happens when you're a bachelor journalist running on three hours sleep out of the last seventy-two; you come home ready to relax, and then hear a baby crying outside your apartment?  The investigator in you opens the door to see the wailing culprit left alone in a car seat.  You step across the hall to your new neighbor's apartment, pound on the door, then tell her she's left her baby outside by mistake.  The neighbor thinks your nuts.  Oh, the apartment building is child-free so you have to find a way to quiet this baby.<br />Caitlyn Devereaux is in seamstress deadline hell.  The last thing she needs is her apparently helpless, desperate, hunky neighbor, Matt Winters, and &quot;his&quot; baby at her door.  It's midnight, and she has a wedding gown to finish, like, yesterday.  Just because she's a woman and has wedding gown paraphernalia cluttering her apartment, does NOT mean she's an expert in the infant department.  But, darn it, they're both so cute, how can Caitlyn refuse them?<br />When they find a cryptic message under the baby's bottom in the car seat, Matt and Caitlin agree on a tentative agreement to take care of the child until the mother returns.  They practically live in each other's pockets for a week, first becoming friends out of necessity, then developing stronger feelings for each other they try not to act on.  And, just what is going to happen between them if and when the mother does return and claim the baby they've grown to love?<br />Sexual tension runs high, the characters all elicit sympathy from the reader, and the storyline may not be original, but the author makes it seem so.  Ms. Freethy showcases her many talents as one of the romance genre's beloved authors by creating real-life believable characters thrown into an extraordinary situation.  Both Matt and Caitlyn have some serious baggage from their pasts to contend with before they can move forward. This couple may have wallowed in their private hurts had they never met. The baby is adorable, and the unexpected identity of the mother tugs at heartstrings. Matt and Caitlin's quest to find her keeps this tale moving along at a fast, emotional pace.<br />The title says it all.  SOME KIND OF WONDERFUL is exactly that. Ms. Freethy delivers another powerful and moving story which includes a touch of the paranormal for a very poignant and satisfying end.  I recommend you start this book early -- its an all-nighter!s adorable, and the unexpected identity of the mother tugs at heartstrings. Matt and Caitlin's quest to find her keeps this tale moving along at a fast, emotional pace.<br />The title says it all.  SOME KIND OF WONDERFUL is exactly that. Ms. Freethy delivers another powerful and moving story which includes a touch of the paranormal for a very poignant and satisfying end.  I recommend you start this book early -- its an all-nighter!	2001-09-09
US	50742388	R26SHJ4EZZB8SM	0373271662	51355676	Plain - Jane Princess (How to Marry a Monarch) (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1096) (Intimate Moments, 1096)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Karen's Plain Jane Princess is far from plain!	Steve Koleski, bachelor electrician, guardian angel to five young orphans, closet photographer and all around hunk, is not having an easy time, to say the least. He goes through housekeepers like water through a sieve and is dealing with the legal and emotional upheaval of trying to keep his inherited, unstable family together. When fate brings Lisa Stone into their lives, Steve is ready to drop to his knees in thanks and relief -- until he finds out his new housekeeper can't even cook. Who is he to question this turn of events when he and the children thrive in this woman's loving care? Princess Sophie of Carpathia, aka Lisa Stone, is on the run -- from her life. For at least two weeks she is determined to live the life of a so-called ordinary person before returning to her duties and responsibilities back in Carpathia. Sophie doesn't consider the fact that she will fall hard for Steve and his beloved children. How long can she keep her secret from them? As long as she dares. PLAIN-JANE PRINCESS is anything but plain! Ms. Templeton's inimitable style shines in her creation of larger-than-life characters that talk TO the reader by way of both sparkling dialogue and inner musings. In this return to the small town of Spruce Lake, Michigan, we are treated to visits with old friends and introductions to new ones. The intriguing ending hints at Sophie's brother, Prince Alek's, story, and I can't wait to see where that leads. I'm hoping Ms. Templeton also has a story in the works for Steve's sister, Mala. I highly recommend PLAIN-JANE PRINCESS as a must-read in a new series called How To Marry a Monarch. An all around delightful, enchanting and poignant tale, this story showcases Ms. Templeton's talent as an arresting storyteller whose star is on a fast rise to the top.	2001-08-25
US	50742388	R1B4YOBEUOLZN4	0373259395	310615954	Smooth Moves	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Whew, hot stuff!!	Zachary &quot;Heartbreak&quot; Brody, small town bad boy, is home after a year's absence.  He is also unwittingly stirring up mixed feelings in the small group of women known as the Heartbroken; Quimby's small circle of Zachary's supposedly spurned ex-girlfriends.  One in particular is especially malicious and coerces the whole group into using relative newcomer, Cathy Bell Timmerman, as bait to lure Zack into his own heartbreak.  Zack falls hook, line and sinker.  But...even the best laid schemes sometimes go awry.<br />Cathy isn't quite the newcomer that the circle of Quimby gals thinks she is.  Even though, as a young, insecure girl, she only spent a year in the small town, Cathy has never forgotten the boy who championed her.  Now divorced with a completely different appearance, Cathy has her own agenda for rising to the challenge of seducing Zachary Brody.  The start of Zack's romantic comeuppance turns into something else entirely.<br />SMOOTH MOVES in an enticing read of revenge, secrets and small town gossip.  Carrie Alexander creates a fast-paced, tightly written story reminiscent of Peyton Place, with healthy doses of humor and witty, alluring dialogue.  Cathy and Zack embark on a believable, heated romance and all of the secondary characters add flavor and nuance to a small town with character of its own.  Here's hoping Ms. Alexander has many more stories up her sleeve for other characters in Quimby.<br />I highly recommend you put the chaise lounge in your favorite shady spot, grab a tall glass of iced tea, then sit back and enjoy the fireworks in SMOOTH MOVES!	2001-07-07
US	50742388	R2QYB24D1T0ADU	0373271204	575455555	Everything But A Husband	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Real people, real life in extraordinary situations.	Married young to a much older, dominating man, thirty-one year old widow, Galen Granata is lacking in self-esteem and confidence. Now, after her grandmother's recent death leaves Galen with a substantial inheritance, is she ready to spread her wings? An invitation to spend the holidays with an old friend of her mother's will test Galen's mettle.<br />Del Farentino, widower and father of a young hearing-challenged daughter, is struggling to make ends meet with his construction company. On an especially busy day just before Thanksgiving, Del finds himself coerced into gathering a friend of a friend from the airport. The woman proves to be far from a seasoned traveler and a tad stand-offish. Del finds himself intrigued by Galen Granata in spite of his vow to concentrate on his fledgling business and providing for his daughter. Can he penetrate the wall that Galen has built around her heart? Does he want the heartache that true love inevitably seems to bring?<br />Karen Templeton pens a warm-hearted, emotional character-driven story of confronting and letting go of the past in order to embrace the future. EVERYTHING BUT A HUSBAND is both humorous and dramatic, revisiting characters from Karen's other Spruce Lake books and creating new ones to wend their way into reader's hearts. Dialogue is perfect, with all the little pauses, wit and quirky anecdotes you expect between real people. Karen's talent lies in her ability to create ordinary people , put them in ordinary circumstances, and create an extraordinary tale.<br />Well meaning friends and family all combine to bring Del and Galen together in spite of themselves. Del is Karen's strongest hero to date, Galen her most sympathetic heroine. I highly recommend EVERYTHING BUT A HUSBAND for a fast-paced, witty, truly romantic tale.	2000-12-02
US	50742388	R16C1YRTRTRJXQ	0440236525	867766067	The Highlander's Touch (Highlander, Book 3)	Books	5	136	144	N	N	Ms. Moning's best work, yet!	Five years ago a fatal car crash killed her father and crippled her mother, Catherine, forcing Lisa Stone to work two jobs in order to pay cumulative medical bills and support herself and her mother. Adding to their burden, Lisa and her mother have recently been told that Catherine suffers from cervical cancer. Lisa's primary concern is caring for her mother, both emotionally and financially, but she is fast becoming disillusioned and exhausted. Her evening job, cleaning at a local museum, is Lisa's escape from the trials of the real world. While in her boss's office, fatigue overtakes Lisa and she falls asleep only to awaken when he and a colleague arrive early in the morning. Fearing termination, Lisa scrambles to hide under his desk and overhears the two talking about a rare, medieval artifact the museum has recently acquired. After they leave, curiosity gets the better of her and Lisa investigates the intricately designed box left on top of the desk. Upon opening it and touching the strange flask inside, the world shifts beneath Lisa's feet and she feels herself falling...landing at the feet of a giant man stepping from his bath.<br />Circenn Brodie, laird of Castle Brodie, quickly realizes that the woman, Lisa Stone, who inexplicably materializes at his feet from thin air, is not of his time. Circenn surmises that a long ago curse he cast on a fairy flask has sent this woman to him -- and to her destruction. Circenn is a man of honor, but how can he keep his long ago oath to destroy the bearer of the flask when Lisa appears to be innocent of its power? The longer Circenn delays fulfilling his oath, the more of a temptation Lisa becomes.<br />Emotions and sexual tension abound between Lisa and Circenn. Both are tormented by circumstances beyond their control. Lisa can only think of returning to her time and her dying mother; Circenn is torn between his attraction to Lisa and the fact that he is honor bound to destroy her. Lisa is spellbound by the mysterious, Scottish warrior and the living history around her, eventually resigning herself to the fact that she may never be able to go home.<br />Ms. Moning pens a brilliant tapestry of fourteenth century Scotland, bringing to vivid life the tumult of the times, without being overwhelming. Ms. Moning is at the height of her craft bringing all of the elements in this story together smoothly and poetically, while creating very real people faced with seemingly insurmountable obstacles.<br />Karen Marie Moning is a treasure in the Paranormal/Time Travel Romance genre. She entices and delights readers with her third book, THE HIGHLANDER'S TOUCH, introducing new characters, while bringing back the mischievous &quot;black elf&quot;, Adam Black, from BEYOND THE HIGHLAND MIST, Ms. Moning's first novel.<br />I highly recommend THE HIGHLANDER'S TOUCH as Ms. Moning's best work to date, and a story that readers won't soon forget.ottish warrior and the living history around her, eventually resigning herself to the fact that she may never be able to go home. <br />Ms. Moning pens a brilliant tapestry of fourteenth century Scotland, bringing to vivid life the tumult of the times, without being overwhelming. Ms. Moning is at the height of her craft bringing all of the elements in this story together smoothly and poetically, while creating very real people faced with seemingly insurmountable obstacles. <br />Karen Marie Moning is a treasure in the Paranormal/Time Travel Romance genre. She entices and delights readers with her third book, THE HIGHLANDER'S TOUCH, introducing new characters, while bringing back the mischievous &quot;black elf&quot;, Adam Black, from BEYOND THE HIGHLAND MIST, Ms. Moning's first novel.<br />I highly recommend THE HIGHLANDER'S TOUCH as Ms. Moning's best work to date, and a story that readers won't soon forget.	2000-11-01
