US	50767211	R20ONB8VLOX5WY	0756401356	805995001	The War of the Flowers (Daw Book Collectors)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Derivative but endearing fantasy.	Humans inadvertently straying into the world of Faerie is a theme that has been explored countless times before and, in this respect, Tad Williams' creation certainly breaks little new ground. <br /> <br />What it does though, pretty effectively, is to blend chilling horror with rattling good adventure and a hefty dollop of laugh-out-loud humour, all enacted by a host of well-rounded, if slightly formulaic characters.  <br /> <br />Our hero Theo, for example, is an admirably three-dimensional human, whose life has been beset by tragedies, hang-ups and the general ennui with which most of us can empathise. The bizarre characters he encounters - from the ghastly apparition that stalks him, to the cutesy sexy sprite Applecore and her rather aloof, effete betters, are all tremendously evocative and are conjured forth with great skill by Williams. <br /> <br />Williams' fairies possess bodily functions and (inventively!) are even engaged in a form of parallel technology race with humankind. This is clever stuff that does manage to rise above the standard of the genre on occasion. Any avid reader of heroic fantasy will, however, be excused for playing spot-the-clich somewhat frequently whilst reading this book. There are hints of Herbert's 'Once' in here, as well as Kearney's (brilliant) 'Way to Babylon', more than a hint of Holdstock, not to mention a vaguely Pratchett-esque feeling throughout. Furthermore, several of Williams' witticisms and gags have been lifted straight from the classic parody 'Bored of the Rings'. <br /> <br />On the whole though, this is still a very enjoyable read that should not disappoint the fantasy fan. A couple of stars deducted for the rip-offs though! <br /> <br />	2005-08-25
US	50767211	R1G0XY3GUYHBGI	0375507256	851412948	Cloud Atlas: A Novel	Books	4	7	11	N	N	Technically superb exploration of servitude and redemption.	Whilst not always an easy read, Cloud Atlas never fails to impress and approaches brilliance on many an occasion.  <br /> <br />The technique of separate (and yet curiously linked) sub-divided tales has certainly been done before (Iain Banks' Inversions springs to mind) and yet rarely with such lasting effect as this minor masterpiece.  <br /> <br />David Mitchell's inspired and varied use of language - from the colonial-era travelogue of Adam Ewing, to the post-apocalyptic adventures of Zachry in the Sloosha's Crossing tale (dialogue faintly reminiscent of the desert-dwelling feral kids in Mad Max 3) keeps the reader on their toes, with some glorious surprises along the way. Furthermore, Mitchell's use of often startling and always clever simile should satisfy the most picky literary critic  <br /> <br />Some reviewers have been critical (overly so in my opinion) of the sci-fi sections. I personally loved them - both the aforementioned Sloosha's Crossing and the profoundly moving Orison of Sonmi 451, in which the central theme of servitude is laid bare in most explicit detail. I defy anyone to read the final sentence from Sonmi 451 without a tear in their eye and a shiver down their spine.  <br /> <br />I must admit, however, to somewhat struggling through the Letters from Zedelghem and the Luisa Rey Mystery, neither of which contained scenarios that particularly fired my imagination. They do, nonetheless, along with the blackly comic and hugely enjoyable Ordeal of Timothy Cavendish, contribute their fair share to the overall and lasting effect of the book.  <br /> <br />Cloud Atlas is greater than the sum of its parts and contains at least something to satisfy demanding readers of many genres. Definitely recommended.  <br /> <br />	2005-08-11
US	50767211	R1L5MR4ZQ90DJI	0312971230	724985102	Ice Station (Scarecrow Series)	Books	1	14	20	N	N	Insults the intelligence.	I was a little more charitable about Reilly's novel Contest (check out my review folks), because the interesting alien scenario compensated to a fair degree for the simplistic and stilted use of language.    Here though, Reilly's literary limitations are as exposed as the Ross ice shelf.    Paper-thin clichd characters engage in impossibly far-fetched adventures, with plot-holes big enough to drive a military hovercraft through.    The only saving grace is that the comic-book style action hurtles along at breakneck pace with virtually every chapter ending with a cliff-hanger.  It's an undemanding page-turner that, just maybe, would make a reasonable \\"leave-your-brain-at-home\\" potboiler to take on a long flight or something.  Think of Clive Cussler for those with attention-deficit disorder and you'll get some idea of Reilly's driving force.    The simplistic prose makes The Sun (or whatever is the US equivalent of a trashy tabloid) appear like Shakespeare.  Reilly clearly has an aversion to adjectives - unless they are \\"icy\\", \\"big\\", \\"huge\\", \\"enormous\\" or \\"gigantic\\".  He also peppers his prose with idiotic 1960's style Batman sound effects - \\"Snap-twangggg!\\" as a cable breaks; \\"Sprak!\\" as another skull gets splintered; or \\"craaaaaack\\" as our hero cops a blow to the nose. Most irritating of all, however, is Reilly's gross over-use of italics, to hammer home a point with the subtlety of a radioactive mutant elephant seal.     If you come across this book in your library, please make sure it is placed in the \\"teen-read\\" section.  Had I read this when I was about 12, I would probably have given it 3 or 4 stars.    I hate myself for actually finishing this book. In fact I hate it so much that I must just hurl it across the room one final time;  \\"weeeeeeeeeee......KER-THUMP!!!!\\"	2005-03-28
US	50767211	R22C2GQ3LIIMRR	0553580515	417245650	Passage	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Slow paced thriller just about delivers.	Near-death experiences (NDEs) are undeniably a fascinating subject, which Willis explores in a competent, if rather long-winded manner.  The plot unfolds in often painstaking detail, carried forward by protracted and repetitive conversations between the main characters.  Perhaps it was Willis' intention that the reader experience a sense of deja vu? I don't know, but I certainly got the impression of reading the same thing every 30 pages or so.  Certainly the main protagonists' ongoing vexation with the huge labyrinthine hospital and their elaborate efforts to avoid the dreaded Mr Mandrake (whose spiritual bent incurs the wrath of the scientific researchers) are oft repeated motifs.    There are certainly a few clever twists and turns together with one major shock along the way, but I found it hard to engage with any of Willis' characters or to suspend my disbelief at some of the stilted and downright unconvincing dialogue (would a doctor rushing to an emergency really be told it's bad luck to walk under a ladder!!??) .  With the exception of Ed (who, for UK readers, embellishes his tales from the war rather like Uncle Albert in \\"Only Fools and Horses\\") and courageous, indefatigable Kit, none of the characters are that likable, the irritatingly saintly Vielle and the geekish Richard being particularly annoying.  I also found the way that Maisie's mother is sneered at for her desperate positive thinking to be rather unfair.    Nitpicking aside though, I'm glad I stayed the course and, ultimately I feel that Passage is a worthwhile effort that just about delivers the goods. The somewhat enigmatic ending, however, may leave some readers dissatisfied.	2004-08-23
US	50767211	R15UN689YST5ML	0312286252	454971228	Contest	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Slightly derivative, leave-your-brain-at-home thrills!	OK, so Contest may never be discussed in the same reverential tones as the more profound and visionary sci-fi, penned by the likes of Iain Banks, Stephen Baxter or Jose Farmer, but it's certainly an entertaining read nonetheless.  <br /> <br />The adventures of our hero Stephen Swain, inadvertently and unwillingly enrolled in a form of alien gladiatorial combat, are more than competently described by Reilly and I'm sure most readers will devour this entertaining pot-boiler in a flurry of undemanding page-turning.  <br /> <br />In the appendix, the author pays tribute to Jurassic Park, and the influence of Crichton is clear in Contest. Indeed the stalking and confrontations set amongst a maze of bookcases are highly reminiscent of the velociraptors in the kitchen scene in JP.  Reilly does, however, inject enough original touches to deflect any serious cries of plagiarism. In particular, the cheating alien Bellos makes for an effectively evil villain and the bizarre alien referred to as Codex was both inventive and downright creepy. <br /> <br />No real surprises or twists along the way, but the ending was suitably explosive and satisfying.  So, nowhere near being a sci-fi classic, but it certainly does what it says on the tin and you could do a lot worse than spending a few hours in the New York State Library with Reilly's dramatis personae,  in the lightweight but pretty damn entertaining world of Contest. <br />	2004-08-23
US	50767211	R2I5FD7N1VV812	0553574612	666269038	A Short, Sharp Shock	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Oh man! What a dream!	Whilst, judging from some of the other reviews, I am not sure I &quot;got&quot; *all* of the philosophical depths and alleged allusions to allegory here, I was perfectly content enough to just go with the flow and enjoy the vivid trippy experience that KSR has penned for our delectation and to pick up perhaps a few wry insights into life's great comedy along the way.<br />Short, it certainly is, coming in at just 150 pages (plus 30 identical chapter title illustration pages).  Sharp? Yes, I guess so, in the keen, striking, intelligent or even witty sense. And how about the shock? Well our mysterious and amnesic wanderer Thel certainly encounters plenty of these in his travels. <br />KSR has populated his spineworld (a kind of negative manifestation of Philip Jose Farmer's Riverworld) with some of the most bizarre and evocative creations that the sci-fi/fantasy genre has ever spawned.  From seaweed-folk to tree-people and the enigmatic facewomen, from people of rock/clay, to the profoundly disturbing eroticism of the Queen of Desire, all of the strange inhabitants conjured forth by KSR are players in a series of increasingly sumptious and dream-like tableaux (the almost Dali-esque homes of the shell-people being my personal favourite).  <br />Many human archetypes are here - companion, lover, provider, bully, mage. Traditional characterisation is kept to a minimum though - and rightfully so; to do otherwise would have diluted this novel's impact.<br />I devoured this book in a flurry of page-turning and many of its images will stay with me for a long time.  I certainly got a few flashes of realisation long after reading certain chapters.  <br />Someone compared this to Iain Bank's (marvellous) &quot;The Bridge&quot;. On a very superficial level I can appreciate that parallel being drawn, however, to me, Short Sharp Shock felt like a more profound and satisfying version of Coelho's &quot;The Alchemist&quot;.<br />So what fundamental truths did I pick up from SSS?<br />....... no. Sorry. To share them with you would be perhaps to prejudice your enjoyment of this book, but, if you have an open mind and appreciate challenging works, enjoy it you certainly will!	2004-06-07
US	50767211	R1JX40OE569TJ9	0060281375	607344832	The Complete Chronicles of Narnia	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A timeless masterpiece	This delightful edition of the Chronicles of Narnia benefits from the seven tales being in their correct logical sequence, as well as from the most famous, enchanting illustrations of Pauline Baynes, who depicts everything from the Elysian magical presence of fauns and dryads to the ghastly apparition of Tash, with great skill and sensitivity.<br />I first read this as a youngster, and it grabbed my imagination in a way that no other book (with the possible exception of Lord of the Rings) has done since.  Now, revisiting the land of Narnia over a quarter of a century later, was like an unexpected joyous meeting with a long lost friend.<br />Children will be captivated with the adventures and more mature readers will appreciate the hidden depths, as well as forgetting their troubles by being transported back to happier, more carefree days.<br />A genuinely magnificent work that gets into your dreams and never truly leaves you.	2004-02-16
US	50767211	R4M19KVGI522B	0241140706	662168744	Deadkidsongs	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Powerful and unsettling	The reader is warned in the preamble that two of the chief protagonists will be dead by the conclusion, but this in no way spoils the tension in Litt's minor masterpiece. Litt cleverly taps into the egotistical psyche of the bully as well as the subservient and machiavellian interests that comprise the timebomb that is &quot;Gang&quot;.  The draconian rules invented by the members of Gang reflect a strict hierachy and exaggerated sense of honour and discipline, influenced by the military. In a fantasy world, where each Gang member yearns to die a hero in defence of mother England, grown-ups are perceived as the enemy. The one exception being Andrew's dad - the &quot;best father&quot;, whose appalling abusive behaviour is glorified by the boys.  Ringing faint echoes of &quot;Lord of the Flies&quot;, the unsettling sense of impending doom in Deadkidsongs builds in a most compelling manner until the bloody conclusion. Whilst more than half expected, the pay-off is in no way diminished and is suitably  satisfying and shocking.  A few moments of gawky adolescent humour thankfully intersperse the mostly grim and cruel prose. The frequent switching of narrator generally worked well although, on occasion, produced a slightly frustrating lack of momentum.<br />A very powerful and memorable book, which I recommend to everyone, except those easily upset by deliberate cruelty.	2003-12-22
US	50767211	RVSJ4KL87LI8U	034545782X	256491322	Evolution	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Awesome and deeply moving saga	Baxter - one of the most inventive sci-fi authors writing today, does it again with a novel of mind-boggling scope and vision.<br />There is something viscerally gripping about this tale, because it is humankind's tale. From the limited consciousness of our far distant ancestors, who eventually battled their way to bloody dominance at the top of the food chain, then into a bleak and unimaginably distant future, Baxter gives the reader a scarily plausible feeling of \\"being there\\".  <br />Through a series of vivid tableaux, set millenia or mega-years apart, Baxter illustrates with astonishing skill, the developing sentience of our species. Some of the episodes are more gripping than others, and one or two did feel a little over-long (I found chapter 15 - Rome, somewhat laboured), however, the sense of growing excitement is such that I defy any reader not to yearn for the next development in this astonishing saga of one family's lineage across the ultimate family tree.<br />Whilst most of the material is based on sound archaeological/anthropological knowledge and toes the traditional evolutionary line, Baxter does flirt with some delightfully speculative creations, such as tool-making sapient dinosaurs (rather like Professor Michael Magee's postulated anthroposaurus sapiens) and the air-whale. I personally would have liked Baxter to have explored this avenue a little more, with some examples of ooparts (out-of-place artefacts) or anomalous fossils, but, what the heck, let's not get too picky!<br />These almost 600 pages just fly past and leave the reader yearning for more. In particular, the episodes describing the adventures of \\"Far\\" and her love of running,  and of the human survivors, awakening from suspended animation long beyond their own time and agreeing to meet once a year at Stonehenge, were deeply moving and will remain with me for a long time.	2003-12-01
US	50767211	R1LW0TXMIKSC5F	0356232700	612431952	Dead Air	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Slow paced  but good pay-off	Iain Bank's recent \\"reality\\" novels haven't quite matched the magnificence of his splendid sci-fi \\"Culture\\" saga, and Dead Air, sadly, is no exception.  Like the similarly slow-paced The Business, DA certainly takes a while to get going, and by page 125 or so, I was on the verge of giving up. Apart from the occasionally and all too brief witty dialogue between the shock jocks, I was finding the ponderous characterisation and politicising very heavy going.<br />HOWEVER, I am very glad to have finished DA, as, when the main plot surrounding the dangerous affair with Celia starts to develop, things certainly start to accelerate, and there is a building sense of unease that Banks is about to throw something pretty damn mind-blowing at the unsuspecting reader. You want tension? You got it! Certainly, the chapter which finds our (anti-)hero Ken stranded in the Merrial mansion is amongst the most heart-stoppingly suspenseful passages Iain Banks has ever written.  I also loved Ken's (Banks') inspired method of illustrating the morally repugnant dogma of the Holocaust denier, and the final pay-off, without giving any spoilers, is satisfying.<br />So. The bottom line is that whilst, in my opinion, Dead Air isn't quite up there with The Bridge, Wasp Factory, Crow Road, Whit or any of the Culture epics, it is, ultimately worthwhile. I'm glad I read it, but slightly disappointed that it falls short of the very high standard that this hugely talented author has set himself.	2003-10-19
US	50767211	R2KY3E3YOCJXK0	031286342X	606838227	Mars Underground	Books	2	8	10	N	N	Slow-paced Mars yarn	Hartmann's novel reads rather like a less dynamic Bova-esque tale. In similar manner to Bova's potboilers, Mars Underground is populated by gross stereotypes, the feisty (yawn!) reporter Annie and the grizzled old prospector type Stafford, being particularly irritating.   At least Bova would have thrown in some action to keep matters ticking along though. Hartmann merely gives us a few interesting pages describing the chase across the Martian landscape in pursuit of the errant Stafford, and a handful of less-than-convincing sex scenes.  The pay-off in the final chapters is pretty muted and merely serves to throw up further clichs surrounding rebellion against starchy authority.  The marvellous backdrop of every SF fan's favourite planet ensures that a modicum of interest remains throughout, but seldom have I read a book where so little of interest happens in 400 odd pages. The paucity of atmosphere echoes the thin wispy air of Mars itself and only rarely does Hartmann generate any sense of excitement or wonder.	2003-08-04
US	50767211	R3UEUTDXDPFAJC	0753166224	591076447	Little Green Man	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Watch your back, Iain Banks!	What a cracking debut novel!  <br />The hugely talented Simon Armitage has given us as compelling a first book as Bank's seminal Wasp Factory, which I was reminded of on occasion.<br />I was drawn in as soon as I read the blurb on the inside cover, as the contents of our anti-hero Barney's attic sounded scarily similar to mine. The descriptions of childhood memories surrounding old board games, subbuteo and scalextric sets will give every 30 or 40 something bloke a delightful memory kick.  The eponymous &quot;little green man&quot;  - a valuable jade artifact, is a sort of totem, discovered during the innocence of youth.  Barney, in a desperate attempt to recreate the cameraderie and magic of childhood friendship, uses the man as a prize in an increasingly dangerous game of bluff.  It would be inappropriate for me to include any spoilers here, as the reader must uncover the sometimes amusing, sometimes horrific and revolting dares for themself, but suffice it to say that I was utterly rivetted by the uneasy sense of acceleration towards disaster.<br />With well-crafted sub-plots and twists aplenty, this is a highly enjoyable tale which I recommend most highly. Be warned though, you may need a strong stomach!	2003-06-30
US	50767211	R2IY07AZQ9D3II	0440235464	435881091	Lost Girls	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Is that IT?	The opening chapters promised much, from the genuinely chilling prologue to the delightful introduction of Barth Crane - the junior associate of the far from reputable lawyers known cynically as \\"Lie and Get 'em off\\".  <br />My anticipation grew as Crane arrives at the vaguely unsettling location of Murdoch and meets some bizarre (and well depicted) characters. But then, by about a third of the way through, I found this book really began to drag. What revelations there were felt decidedly underwhelming. The supernatural sub-plot was very understated - almost as if it could be put down to Crane's sleep deprevation and drugs abuse. Whilst this ambiguity could have been a major advantage if handled subtly, in Pyper's hands however it merely comes over as a rather wishy-washy loss of direction.  The courtroom scenes are adequately, if uninspiringly, described, and the twist, if indeed it were intended as such, is eminently guessable and left me feeling rather unfulfilled.  <br />Lost Girls falls uncomfortably between two stools. It probably has insufficient gritty authenticity to satisfy readers of legal dramas and whodunnits, and certainly contains not enough shocks and chills for devotees of the ghost/horror genre.<br />I'm sorry I cannot be more generous about Lost Girls. The author clearly has considerable talent and often employs startling and delightful imagery, but the overall impact of the novel on me was rather akin to a wet grey mush (which perhaps was Pyper's intention?).<br />...	2003-05-21
US	50767211	R2RFVI2SJDWJ06	0765302853	397616672	Once	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A Very English Fantasy	Having just finished this highly entertaining novel, I decided to skim through the customer reviews before contributing my own.  A trend soon emerged;  the ayes or nays seem to be split roughly along national lines.  Most English readers thoroughly enjoyed this tale of the erotic side of Faerie, whereas the explicit sexual theme seemed to upset our more puritanical cousins across the pond!  Perhaps we are a little more at home with an environment of grim castles and mysterious primordial forests, where supernatural delights and horrors just may lurk? <br />The intertwining world of fairies and humans may not be the most original theme for a fantasy novel. Indeed I was reminded of Graham Joyce's memorable \\"The Tooth Fairy\\" on several occasions. Herbert however, uses his not inconsiderable talents as master of the macabre, to make \\"Once\\" something special.  The  deeply erotic prose punctuated suddenly and shockingly with moments of the grossest horror, creates a profoundly unsettling atmosphere, which remains with the reader long after the final page has been turned.  And I turned the 470 odd pages in a remarkably short time, the tension at the end of each chapter making this the most moorish, unputdownable book I have read for several months.<br />Sure, the denouement is somewhat predictable, but is no less satisfying for that, and there were a few twists along the way that caught me unawares.  Herbert's reknowned used of simile is as sharp as ever here, the description of complete utter darkness flowing \\"around your hand like inky syrup\\" being a splendid and evocative example.<br />Finally, I just have to mention the reference to Björk, which I found both delightful and inspired!<br />For my money, \\"Once\\" is one of Herbert's strongest works.  Arachnophobes stay well clear though!	2002-12-15
US	50767211	R2U3QGC7MHIWMS	0425177173	842248212	Atlantis Found (Dirk Pitt, No. 15)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Politically incorrect, historically questionable, but fun!	I hadn't read any Cussler, let alone any Dirk Pitt novels before.  This one caught my attention because the Atlantis theme coincides with my interest in humankind's prehistory.<br />Fairly early on though I decided I would need to set my disbelief to one side and just go with the flow if I wanted to derive any enjoyment from this book.  Anthropologists will surely hurl this pot boiler across the room and issue indignant snorts at the notion that almost the entire human race was wiped out in 7,000 B.C.  Furthermore, during the denouement, the tactics employed to thwart the villains are somewhat farcical when a simpler solution is staring us in the face!<br />But Cussler never intended to give us an accurate history lesson, and let's get onto the plot!  This is a rollicking adventure where our rugged and handsome hero knocks the preverbial out of sinister foreigners with funny accents and discovers the lost continent of Atlantis, almost without breaking sweat.  Dirk Pitt is definitely up there with Indiana Jones and James Bond and probably hasn't got far to go to give Superman a run for his money. He's the kind of mega-tough guy who, if his lungs start to hurt, he spits them out and gets on with saving civilisation as we know it.  He always has a witty line in repartee on his tongue too, and don't the ladies just lap it up!  In real life he would probably come over as Leisure Suit Larry's more dangerous brother and would be regarded as rather corny by any streetwise modern woman. The womem in Dirk Pitt's world however are invariably beautiful and frequently in need of rescue by our invincible square-jawed hero, which, of course, he invariably accomplishes in the nick of time.<br />But enough irony and nitpicking! The action (and boy, is there plenty of that!) is very competently described and I defy anyone not to devour this hefty tome (500+ pages) in a flurry of undemanding but enjoyable page turning.  I swear you will shiver as Cussler depicts the numbing effects ofwind-chill on our hero!<br />So, classic literature this ain't, but I enjoyed it all the same and have no regrets about buying my first ticket into the rather simplistic but pretty damn entertaining world of Dirk Pitt.	2002-12-06
US	50767211	RDS2OAIWAR3ZW	0595197841	194065955	Portal: A Dataspace Retrieval	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Innovative but dull	Despite being an avowed sci-fi fan (check out my other reviews folks!) and always being appreciative of originality and innovation, I'm sorry, but I just didn't get this one.  <br />Perhaps not having played the computer game that spawned this novel places me at an irretrievable disadvantage, but after ploughing through a 100 or so pages I had to give up, as the world of Portal simply didn't grab me and was becoming extremely tedious.<br />The striking cover art (on the UK release) and the blurb on the back cover promised much, as did the glowing praise from the late Timothy Leary. This has great potential, I thought, and couldn't wait to read our hero's narrative as he explores the eerily deserted Earth.  Rather than reconnoitre this spooky new world, however, our prodigal astronaut devotes every geek-like waking hour to interrogating a computer system analogous to the Internet.  This may well be the rational and logical thing to do, but it makes for interminably dull reading.  The way Peter gradually masters the unfamiliar user interface and how the computer expert system gradually re-establishes itself  is competently described, but sadly failed to hold my interest.   One wonders if the book would have sold so many if the cover pic had depicted someone hunched over a computer terminal?  To plagiarise an advert on UK TV, this one certainly doesn't do what it says on the tin!<br />Thus, I feel Portal is worth a couple of stars for the bold and innovative concept alone, but the paucity of any dynamic, let alone exciting, narrative allows no more than this.<br />I note that the other reviewers have heaped much praise on this book and awarded it maximum stars. I therefore expect my rather less than complimentary review may provoke indignation amongst the die-hard fans, however it would be disingenuous for me not to tell it as it is.  If you ever see this novel in a charity shop in Hampshire, it may well be my old copy.	2002-11-20
US	50767211	R39C5XKDY31YJ8	0812579410	126157448	Jupiter: A Novel (The Grand Tour)	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Losin� my religion	A tough one to review, this.  Without the backdrop of everyone's favourite planet beyond Earth, Bova clearly had a struggle on his hands to maintain the reader's interest.  So, whilst Mars and Return to Mars still suffered from the usual Bova-esque paper-thin characters and heavy-handed politicising, the enthralling Martian landscape, often so tantalisingly close to Earth's, won the day and made for compelling reading.  <br />Bova obviously considered the nebulous attributes of Jupiter to be far less of an attraction and has therefore set 75% of the action on Research Station Gold, in orbit around the great planet.  This somewhat claustrophobic setting offers rather more chance than usual for character development and interaction and, to his credit, Bova has made our hero - Grant Archer at least two-and-a-bit dimensional, as he struggles to reconcile his religious beliefs with scientific curiosity.  Sadly, most of the other players, particularly Dr. Wo,  Red Devlin, Krebs and Karlstad come over as gross and rather ridiculous caricatures. <br />The plot, what there is of it, unfolds in hugely predictable chunks, and I'm not giving anything away by revealing that the religious inquisition (boo, hiss!) gets outfoxed by the scientific types (hooray!) and our hero saves the day at the expense of having his religious beliefs severely challenged.<br />Now onto the blatant plagiarism. Sheena, the talking gorilla could have been lifted directly from Crichton's Congo, and the inspiration for the immense Leviathan has clearly come from one of Ian M Banks' far superior creations. The addictive feeling of having ones nervous system wired directly into the ship is suspiciously reminiscent of what happened to Lt. Barclay in a Star Trek TNG episode, and I also got a heavy blast of deja vu from the liquid-breathing scenario, but can't quite recall where from.<br />But maybe I'm being a tad over-critical. The 400 odd pages do rattle past at a fair old lick and I've certainly read many worse sci-fi novels. I would class Jupiter as a good early teen read, but something of an insult to the intelligence of the  more demanding adult sci-fi aficionado.  Bova can certainly pull the right strings on occasion, but is clearly not in the same class as the far more visionary Ian Banks, Philip Jose Farmer or Stephen Baxter.  <br />Two and a half stars, maybe!	2002-10-29
US	50767211	R2G9X54ULU5N86	0812576403	85474640	The Light of Other Days	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Not quite the sum of its parts	I was expecting to be completely blown away by this collaboration by two of sci-fi's most illustrious wordsmiths. How could  authors that have given us the marvellous Rendezvous with Rama, Songs of Distant Earth, Titan, Moonseed etc, fail to produce a masterpiece? And yet why then did I find this novel quite heavy going? <br />The basic concept of the \\"wormcam\\" is a sound and fascinating one, supported by plausible snippets of technological data. The early chapters, where the wormcam's potential is gradually being realised, are certainly extremely satisfying and hint at greater things to come <br />And yet, the chapters - the sometimes excessively long chapters, devoted to the political intrigue and human interest, utterly failed to grab my imagination. I simply couldn't get worked up at all about what happened to the stereotypical fat-cat empire-building capitalist, the flashy playboy, the religious fundamentalist, the weak-willed wormcam addict, or even our feisty (yawn!) lady investigator.   These paper-thin characters were simply far too cliché'd for me to empathise with.<br />All things considered, certainly not a bad novel; if TLOOD had been a first book from some young sci-fi hopeful author, it would probably be hailed as a marvellous debut. Clarke and Baxter however have, hitherto, set such very high standards, that, in my humble opinion, TLOOD does not quite live up to them.	2002-08-30
US	50767211	R1QCYYJ9OQGX2N	074320333X	389576328	Operation Lightning Strike	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The Thinking Man's Independence Day	Nick Pope's involvement with the Ministry of Defence has equipped him with the insider knowledge to create an utterly captivating and scarily plausible account of an alien invasion of Earth.  All the cabinet meetings, international diplomacy and descriptions of military countermeasures have a gritty air of authenticity about them. Furthermore, Pope skillfully weaves a thread of ambiguity as the tale unfolds, as to just who are the bad guys. Conspiracy theorists will love this!  This makes for an ultimately more satisfying and complex read than many more conventional invasion-Earth type yarns.  My only real criticism is that the breathtaking action scenes take rather a long time to appear and the intensive politicising in the early part of the book may not retain everyone's interest.  Stick with it though and you will be rewarded with an awe-inspiring denouement that will remain with you for a long time.   One small point that rankles a bit in the wake of the WTC atrocity is the author's claim that the threat of \\"jihad\\" against America was more imagined than real. As Operation Lightning Strike was written in 2000, however, Pope cannot be blamed for this tragically ironic but unintentional faux pas.  Finally, a particular bonus for me was that much of the action set in England takes place close to my home. Perhaps I'll search the ground for UFO debris next time I visit Alice Holt Forest!	2002-08-07
US	50767211	R3C05QFLTLF2FG	0451452615	511955488	Bored of the Rings: A Parody of J. R. R. Tolkien's Lord of the Rings	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Absolutely Bleedin' Marvellous	As soon as I saw the featureless area of the Bored of the Rings Map labelled &quot;The Flat Mountains&quot;, I was hooked! <br />This achingly funny send-up of Lord of the Rings pokes merciless fun at a genre that perhaps takes itself a tad too seriously. <br />There is a laugh-out-loud moment on almost every page and, whilst the terminally humourless LOTR addicts will no doubt scream heresy, it merely made me appreciate the enduring qualities of Tolkien's masterpiece all the more. <br />I guarantee you will not regret buying this book!	2002-03-13
US	50767211	R3TILIKGLGX29H	0446526339	78981579	The Martian Race	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Good science, so-so story	Benford clearly knows his stuff. The mission practicalities and planning; the effects of low-G; setting up hab modules, and the exploration of an alien world are all described in satisfying detail with a gritty air of authenticity (quite literally in the case of the spacesuits). The characterisation and human interaction however fails to impress. Viktor, the brooding Russian in particular, seems little more than a crudely-depicted comic-book character and his stilted and quirky use of English soon becomes a clich.  Furthermore, the structure of the book's first half is rather irritating - jumping between the present and the less-than-enthralling political intrigue leading up to the launch.  To be honest, the reader could dive in at around page 120 and not miss much.  The Martian Race reminded me a great deal of Ben Bova's Mars and Return to Mars (check out my review, folks!) and, whilst Bova tends to get a bit hung up on the politics, he generates a bit more excitement than Benford. Without including any spoilers here, I will happily acknowledge that the payoff is worthwhile, with satisfying and plausible discoveries. The conclusion is rather tame though and left me feeling &quot;is that it?&quot;. Not bad, but not brilliant either.	2002-03-01
US	50767211	R2TS1TNW4WQRU6	0312207034	413350992	A Natural History of the Unnatural World: Discover What Cryptozoology Can Teach Us about Over One Hundred Fabulous and Legendary Creatures That Inhabit Earth, Sea and Sky	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Irreverent, slightly amusing and marginally educational	It's not easy to review a book like this.  Anyone with a genuine interest in cryptozoology will certainly be disappointed at the whimsical and irreverent tone, which pokes fun at the visionary pioneers who have conducted scientifically painstaking research into the likes of Nessie, Mokele m'bembe and Bigfoot. A layperson however, will probably find much to amuse them and just possibly enough material to cultivate an interest in this most fascinating of topics. Amongst the silly stuff are some real facts about cryptids. The Chupacabras in particular is fairly well described and depicted.  Separating fact from fancy and blatant fabrication however is not always easy and the running gag about some fictional crusty old gentlemens' club (the address given is actually the Royal Academy of Arts) does wear a bit thin after a while.  If you are seeking genuine and scientifically researched material about cryptids, you would do far better by starting with Bernard Heuvelmans's seminal work or even dredging the Internet's many cryptozoology sites for references. In that respect, I would only give this book one star. If, however, you are looking for a book to foster an interest in mystery animals in a young relative or friend (my 11 year old son thought it was \\"cool\\"), then you could do a lot worse than this. My overall rating reflects the response from both extremes of potential customer.	2001-11-27
US	50767211	R2FCPYGU89QM57	0340767529	53357107	Barcelona Plates	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Tales of the (dangerously) unexpected.	I've long been an admirer of this comic genius. Alexei Sayle is the master of off-the-wall lunacy, tinged with a hard edge of political satire. With Barcelona Plates, he has announced himself as an outrageously talented author. This is a collection of 14 apparently unrelated short stories. They read, however, almost like linked chapters in the bizarre comedy/tragedy that is modern life.  At times extremely dark, sexually explicit and downright brutal, there is however, always a &quot;Wow!&quot; moment in each tale which, if not giving us exactly a belly-laugh, certainly provides a frisson of comical empathy with Sayle's splendid characters. Each instalment is a minor masterpiece, designed to make you question your personal values. The final tale - The Last Woman Killed in the War, has the most memorable last line of any book I can remember. My only caveat is that I am unsure how well Sayle's humour will travel. The quirks of English eccentricity, the menacing sarf London atmosphere and the incongruity of a sex act in a genteel tea-room may not be fully appreciated &quot;over the pond&quot;. Do give it a try though, eh?  Highly recommended!	2001-11-12
US	50767211	R2B1B9NK2FOKX3	0743210891	867268465	The Green Mile: The Complete Serial Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Well crafted dark fantasy.	With this intriguing novel, King has moved away from mainstream horror, giving us an expertly written fable about the nature of good and evil.  The characters are exceptionally well depicted, but with perhaps just a hint of stereotyping and even caricature about them.  The Green Mile's origin as a serial novel in six (?) instalments is somewhat obvious, wherever the author reiterates significant events. This does strike the reader as rather odd at first, and serves to bulk out the hefty single-volume version, but is not overly annoying. Nonetheless, the story rattles along at a fair old pace, containing scenes of dark and ironic humour, violence, heart-stopping suspense and deep poignancy, leading to the profoundly moving dnouement. My only real criticism is that the Green Mile strays perilously close to melodrama at times, and a few of the scenarios are rather predictable (well to me anyway!). All in all however, I commend this as one of King's strongest works, which will appeal particularly to lovers of adult fantasy with roots firmly in the real world.	2001-11-01
US	50767211	R3DY9SZ0IJPMES	0451455002	400053159	Arcady	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Beautiful but not entirely satisfying	Arcady is an extremely well written fantasy, positively bursting with the most sumptuous, sensual and evocative language. The chapters are like a series of dream-like tableaux, containing vivid and startling images that will remain with the reader for a long time. Why then does such an original and visionary novel fall somewhere short of providing full satisfaction?  Perhaps because the surfeit of wondrous descriptive prose cannot entirely compensate for the sheer lack of pace and direction.  The paucity of any significant action, particularly in the first half of the book, is likely to drive many readers to give up on Arcady. Even the most beautiful dream can become wearing in its monotony.  If you persevere with Arcady though, you will ultimately be well rewarded by this memorable and innovative novel. It may, however, put your staying power to the test.	2001-10-05
US	50767211	R3JW3QX6O1KEAM	0743421914	549137614	Look to Windward	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A superb addition to the Culture saga	Following the baffling (or intriguing, depending on your point of view) mediaeval shenanigans of Inversions, Iain M Banks has genuinely delivered the goods with this one, giving the Culture aficionados what they *really* wanted. &quot;Look to Windward&quot; is a staggeringly imaginative chunk of hard sci-fi, with some of the strongest characterization and mind-bogglingly grandiose scope since Banks' classic &quot;Consider Phlebus&quot;. Who could not empathize with the battle-weary, bereaved Quilan whose tortured soul seeks oblivion, and yet who could not condemn him for the ghastly mission he agrees to undertake? Has absolute power begun to corrupt the Culture? Can they honestly still claim the moral high ground after their ill-judged and catastrophic intervention in the war? This novel touches on some pretty profound ethical dilemmas along the way. There is also much wise and possibly prophetic investigation into the nature of the soul, heaven and omnipotence. Please don't get the impression that this is all heavy stuff though; there is much amusing and witty dialogue between the chief protagonists. Some of Ziller's bon mots will have you in stitches. To the delight of the Culture anoraks, there is also a huge amount of information about Culture minds/hubs, personality backups, orbitals and (delightfully) a roll call of some of the more eccentric Culture ship names. How I would love to visit Masaq' Orbital; I guarantee you will too!	2001-07-24
US	50767211	R24B01A4489NYD	0553569473	332987914	Rama Revealed	Books	4	2	8	N	N	A Worthy Finale	Following the marvellous first book, parts of the subsequent plot in this massive series have been something of an ordeal to plough through. In particular, the ponderous characterisation, politicising and moralising which dominated much of Rama II and sizeable chunks of III, detracted from, rather than augmented Clarke's brilliant vision.  I am, however, very glad to have persevered to the end, for Rama Revealed contains more of what ACC does best.  The sense of wonder builds through the exploration of never before discovered sections of the intriguing Rama world. Interaction with a wholly alien species is explored in great depth. The theme of human bigotry and xenophobia is dwelt on somewhat, but does not detract from the growing sense of momentum and expectation. The final section bombards the reader with profoundly philosophical and spiritual revelations. The brief transience of life in the great scheme of things has rarely been depicted with such clarity. Surely only the most hardened sceptic would find the conclusion anything less than deeply moving? Read those last words, close the book, put it down, feel that delicious shiver run down your spine as you gaze into infinity just thinking &quot;wow!&quot;.	2001-07-17
US	50767211	R1V03WOABEXUHM	0553298178	417934690	The Garden of Rama	Books	3	0	1	N	N	The Curate's Egg Rolls On	&quot;Good in Places&quot;. Indeed. (**Warning - a few slight spoilers ahead**).  The opening few chapters even recaptured for me some of the mind-bogglingly grandiose wonder of the original Rama, The interaction with the Eagle and the eel-like aliens made for inspired and compulsive reading. The decision of how to divide the extended family and the tearful goodbyes made for a dramatic and genuinely poignant moment.  Once Nicole transmits her message however and the action switches to the Earth-side preparations for rendezvous, the book nose-dives into mediocrity. Putting aside ones disbelief that such vast expense would be devoted to sending such a dysfunctional band of ex-felons to Mars as representatives of homo sapiens, the less-than-subtle and often irritatingly obvious allegory of human prejudices will surely make most readers groan in disbelief. Come on Sir Arthur (or was Gentry Lee the chief culprit?). You can do a lot better than resorting to two-dimensional soap-opera style goodies and baddies in space!  As soon as characters are introduced, it is obvious whether they will fall into the hero or villain pot. Life just ain't that black and white guys! Why couldn't Benjy, Richard, the Redneck farmer or the annoyingly saintly Nicole have at least dropped some litter or something?  Surely Katie, the boring Scotsman and the Jap entrepreneur must have had some decent features? Rama III does redeem itself somewhat in the later stages, where exploration of the mysterious far end of the spacecraft produces some enthralling revelations. All too soon however, the authors invoke the feelbad factor once again to remind us what a bunch of rotters humans are. The pious sanctification of Nicole was a particularly irritating sub-plot and really strains the readers' credulity. Would this tough cookie heroine honestly choose martyrdom rather than continuing her struggle against an oppressive system? Ho hum.  All things considered however, the Garden of Rama was a satisfactory read and, mug that I am, I have just acquired a copy of Rama Revealed. So watch this space in a couple of weeks for my views on the concluding episode. Fingers crossed that the saga finishes on a high eh?read and, mug that I am, I have just acquired a copy of Rama Revealed. So watch this space in a couple of weeks for my views on the concluding episode. Fingers crossed that the saga finishes on a high eh?	2001-06-17
US	50767211	R32LNGHYRLVIJL	0553286587	487765721	Rama II: The Sequel to Rendezvous with Rama	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Just about worthwhile	Don't know if it was Gentry Lee's influence, but this sequel to the marvellous Rendezvous with Rama is rather short on the mind-boggling wonder that we have come to expect from Arthur C Clarke. The extensive politics and ponderous characterisation gives Rama II distinctly soap-opera like overtones and, on several occasions, I was reminded more of the Ben Bova style of goodies and baddies in space, rather than the visionary genius of ACC. Rama II does, admittedly gather much pace in its later stages and the breathtaking conclusion will reward the reader for their perseverance.  Furthermore, I am aware that it is easy to be over-critical, given the very high standards set by the original novel. On the whole though, I must admit to finding Rama II a little disappointing.  It piqued my interest sufficiently however, to make me add Rama III to my future reading list.	2001-04-02
US	50767211	R2WF494EQ90Z22	0719551498	158185992	Vinland	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Simple saga full of profound wisdom	I bought this book on a whim, expecting intrepid and swashbuckling escapism. What I discovered was something quite different, but no less enthralling for that and I feel that Vinland will surely leave a more lasting impression on every reader than most conventional historic adventures. George Mackay Brown has written a saga in the traditional scandinavian style. The usual characterisation and prosaic descriptions are kept to a minimum. The personae speak to us almost entirely through their deeds. The saga unfolds around the life of Ranald Sigmundson who, as a boy and young man is priviledged to have a surfeit of adventure, journeying with Leif Ericsson on his epic voyage to the New World, meeting with kings and fighting in history-changing battles. As maturity sets in, Ranald turns his back on such matters and, echoing Voltaire's &quot;il faut cultiver notre jardin&quot;, settles down to life as a farmer. Ranald's increasingly reclusive and ascetic lifestyle is in stark contrast to the violent acts engendered by the ruthless power struggle of earls and kings around him. Like the eye of the hurricane, Ranald finds fulfillment through his lone meditations. Yet, in so doing, has Ranald chosen the coward's way out in running from worldly things, including distancing himself from his beloved family? This book will make you question your personal values, the path you have chosen through life and will make you face your own mortality. The elegiaic and poetic conclusion is deeply moving and will stay with the reader for a long time.	2001-02-08
US	50767211	RWBLWC16OT0RG	0312963009	638192149	Neanderthal	Books	1	7	8	N	N	An Intriguing Concept Poorly Implemented	I wanted to enjoy this book, I really did. Having a profound interest in cryptozoology, I thought I would be in for a treat here.  Sadly, within a few short pages, it became apparent that Darnton's stilted prose could never do such a potentially enthralling subject justice.  Indeed on page one of chapter one, when I read &quot;he heard something : - a sound..&quot;  I had to double check that this wasn't intended as some kind of spoof on the theme.  Darnton's style throughout is to drag the plot along with irritatingly short staccato sentences that fail miserably to impart any creative description, characterisation or atmosphere.  This literary limitation would be bad enough, without holes in the plot one could drive a woolly mammoth through.  For example, surely trained anthropologists would jump at the chance of making first contact with a prehistoric people and definitely wouldn't send an inexperienced Russian guide out to make the first big hello? Hasn't the cliched &quot;good tribe/bad tribe&quot; concept been done to death in umpteen corny films, usually starring Racquel Welch?  The farcical &quot;Trojan Horse&quot; motif that leads to the denouement is simply too far fetched for words and I'm sure will provoke groans of &quot;oh good grief!&quot; from most discerning readers.  And as for reiterating Sibley and Ahlquist's discredited research that claims ape and human DNA to be 98% homologous;- totally unforgivable I'm afraid!  Oh and just to annoy any English readers, Darnton gets the, now not uncommon in recent American novels, anglophobic jibe in when our &quot;hero&quot; Matt declares that he knows all about rejection, having lived in England (w-what!!).  I gather this is getting the Spielberg treatment and I have to say this is one of those rare occasions where the movie can only be better than the book.   This is a great shame as the underlying concept is undoubtedly  fascinating and potentially enthralling. Sadly, one can only speculate as to what an infinitely better job Jean Auel, Michael Crichton or Stephen Baxter would have made of this. Very very disappointing.   (BTW, this is the second time I've reviewed this potboiler. My first submission, which was perhaps slightly more charitable, didn't get posted for some reason).	2001-01-22
US	50767211	RCW8XF3G5C9DN	0380976404	700939540	Return to Mars	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Ben Bova Back at his Best	Following the generally disappointing Moonrise and Moonwar, which amounted to little more than Dallas or Dynasty in space, Bova has finally given the readers what they want.  Even the most mediocre of sci-fi authors can usually at least maintain the reader's interest with any tale set against the beautiful and mysterious backdrop of everyone's favourite planet.  Bova is a better than average author and, when he doesn't get too embroiled in politics and political correctness, can produce some immensely exciting material.  Thankfully, Return to Mars is pretty well solid adventure from cover to cover. Sure there is a smattering of politicising over the financial interests surrounding the potential commercialisation of Mars and Bova's usual tendency towards &quot;affirmative action&quot; manifests itself through the rather contrived melting pot of a crew and the occasional piece of stilted dialogue. Here though, these features seem less of a distraction than in Bova's previous novels and we can surely forgive Bova his agenda when he gives us such riveting adventure as this.  Descriptions of the practicalities of setting up the habitation modules and all the ancillary equipment has a gritty air of authenticity about it.  The excursions to Mt. Olympus and the Grand Canyon, where most of the story unfolds, are depicted in superb and convincing detail and should satisfy the most technically demanding of readers.  Bova has skillfully trod the very fine line between what we know about Mars and speculating on what surprises we may yet find.  Furthermore, the characterisation, although never the main feature of a Bova novel, is more 3-dimensional and satisfying than usual. WARNING SLIGHT SPOILER AHEAD; The only feature which quite irritated me was the unnecessary, predictable and contrived whodunnit sub-plot. Having read other Bova novels and being aware of his tendency towards anglophobia, you'll all surely guess whodunnit the moment the main players are introduced! END OF SPOILER.  That just took the edge off my enjoyment a little. I would still thoroughly recommend Return to Mars to all sci-fi fans. For my money, this is easily Bova's best novel and is the nearest we'll ever get to walking the Red Planet!	2000-12-27
US	50767211	R1DINQ6GDHYKMG	0393038912	733405472	Guns, Germs and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies	Books	2	41	65	N	N	An intellectual exercise in &quot;Affirmative Action&quot;	I found this rather impenetrable book quite a disappointment. Firstly, it is not an easy read. I have never come across any other book making such extensive use of inverted commas. Terms such as &quot;civilisation&quot;, &quot;discovery&quot;, &quot;progress&quot;, &quot;barbarian&quot; and &quot;primitive&quot; are invariably given this syntactically diminishing treatment or are prefixed by &quot;so-called&quot;, whereas dubious and controversial terms such as &quot;racist&quot; and &quot;affirmative action&quot; do not, as if we're expected to take Diamond's assumptions about them at face value. <br />Next, it doesn't live up to its sub-title &quot;A Short History of Everybody for the Last 13,000 Years&quot;. Diamond rather seems to have striven to compile as much political (and politically correct) evidence as possible to explain why European and Asian people had such an apparent head start in the human race. The fact that the Egyptians (Africa) and Olmecs (America) had achieved an astonishingly advanced level of &quot;civilisation&quot; when us Europeans were still &quot;barbarian&quot; hunter-gatherers (look -  he's got me doing it now!) seems to be glossed over because it doesnt fit too comfortably with Diamond's theory. Diamond even conveniently lumps Nortern Africa in with Europe, when its demographics fit his theory better!  Quite early on, Diamond scoffs openly at the idea that civilisation is a laudable goal in itself. His statement that he finds New Guineans tend to be more intelligent than Europeans or Americans rather sets the tone for the rest of the book. Indeed, one could be forgiven for believing that New Guinea was and is the cradle of civilisation.<br />GG&amp;S does, in all fairness,  contain much fascinating material. The culture clash between Pizarro and Atahuallpa and the chapter covering the invention and spread of writing are exceptionally interesting. Diamond's political motives are however always apparent. For example the fact that the Spanish worked in collaboration with some ethnic american peoples (Zatopec etc) to assist in subjugating others, is glossed over - presumably to demonise those nasty Europeans yet further. This tends to make the reader suspicious of the author's motives in presenting such selective evidence and in asking us to trust him in the many assumptions he makes.  All things considered, I still feel GG&amp;S was worth reading (particularly if you're Eurasian and enjoy a guilt trip!), but you may find the author's hidden (and occasionally quite overt) agenda very irritating.  Surely we are more than mere automata with our destiny pre-ordained by environmental constraint?	2000-12-11
US	50767211	RZHEMME2W16T2	067942069X	462635676	Felidae	Books	4	16	17	N	N	You'll never look at Tiddles the same way again	This book was a real surprise. I started it on a whim, expecting a fairly lightweight fable in a similar vein to Watership Down or House of Tribes. How wrong I was! I was soon drawn into this sometimes extremely dark and gothic tale of murder, torture, religious fundamentalism and eugenics! There are obvious parallels with the state of humankind herein and I often wondered to what extent Pirincci intended his work to be allegorical. It certainly contains some moments of quite profound wisdom and made me think long and hard about how we treat our fellow inhabitants of planet Earth.  If the reader would prefer not to get hung up on the philosophising then, no problem! Felidae is also a rattling good whodunnit, with twists and turns aplenty and a very dramatic and shocking denouement. Our hero Francis is an extremely likeable character, as is his battered and uncouth sidekick Bluebeard. The footnotes even provide plenty of fascinating information about feline habits and I guarantee that next time you pat puss on the head, you'll wonder how much they really appreciate your care or do they just think of you as an idiot &quot;tin-opener&quot; certainly inferior to their own supreme intellect.  Felidae may be a little whimsical for some readers, but if you set your disbelief to one side and just sit back and enjoy this unique novel (preferably with a cat curled up on your lap), you will not be disappointed.	2000-11-08
US	50767211	R1FZ9339J44L31	0333236998	127520224	A Long Walk to Wimbledon	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Share the gifts and the madness	Having read so many post-apocalyptic sagas, it requires something rather special indeed to stand out above the rest.  Keating's A Long Walk to Wimbledon is, quite simply, one of the very best of the genre.  The painstaking wealth of detail crammed into the novel's 190 pages paint a stunningly vivid picture of our hero's trek across London's ruined landscape of the not-too-distant future. Anyone who knows London will revel in the thrill of recognition as familiar, but horribly changed, thoroughfares and landmarks are reached. I couldn't resist following Mark's journey through the metropolis on my London A-Z. The story's strongest feature however, is the sheer humanity (and frequent inhumanity) of the tragic players in a morality play of a world gone to hell.  Pearls of poignancy and aching beauty shine out from wretched filth and squalor. Surprisingly, against so grim a background, Keating, the master story-teller, manages to wring a strong message of hope for the human spirit. A perfect bend of allegory and nerve-tingling action and suspense. Keating has created nothing short of a classic in this strongest candidate ever for a &quot;have to read in one sitting&quot; novel.	2000-10-22
US	50767211	R1TAKQ5ZZYSS9U	0743200144	357460900	The Business: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	The most un-Banks-like novel to date?	Hmmm. Has Banks gone off the boil a bit?  The Business strikes me as a fairly run-of-the-mill thriller about corporate shenanigans, with a bit of historical intrigue thrown in. Whilst it is perfectly readable, (sometimes reminding me of the far superior Complicity) it never quite grabs the reader in the way earlier Banks' novels do. This isn't the first time Banks has written from a female 1st person perspective (check out Canal Dreams and the excellent Whit), but in The Business, the adventures of our amoral Jackie-the-lad (Kate) struck me as less than convincing.  Some elements of the plot certainly strain the reader's credulity too; sending an encrypted bank account number via some imaginative dental work, and the astonishing amount of micro-control some cars' electric windows possess, will probably provoke a few snorts of derision. But hang on a mo. Perhaps I'm being too harsh? If this were a debut novel from an up-and-coming author, it would be hailed as a powerful and impressive work. I guess it's just that Banks has set the standard so very high with magical works like The Bridge and Wasp Factory, that anything falling short of such class will inevitably pale in comparison. So still a worthwhile read, but cannot be counted amongst his best.	2000-10-10
US	50767211	R3QHXAG9XV3C9J	0751514179	915720035	Renegades	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Your granny wouldn't like it!	I guess there are a couple of ways of writing an effectivehorror story; firstly there is the subtle Barker, King or Herbert style of weaving a plot to draw in the unwary and then hitting the reader with a fiendish twist.  The second method is perhaps more akin to the scattergun technique, piling horror upon horror until the poor reader is almost begging for mercy.  Renegades falls smack bang into this second category and is about as subtle as a zombie with piles. Just when you think Hutson has plumbed the depths of depravity and dumped the foulest cocktail imaginable in front of you, a turn of the page invariably adds the wretched cherry on top! Without including any spoilers here, suffice it to say that the plot concerns the IRA, a man and woman anti-terrorist...a creepy abandoned church containing something nasty, a perverted couple seeking the ultimate thrill etc etc. You get the picture?  Renegades employs quite a few clich&eacute;s from the genre, but who cares? The plot merely provides a ghastly carcase on which Hutson drapes a series of increasingly nasty tableaux for your delectation. If you have the stomach to persevere, you'll find a hefty dose of (very) black humour and some genuinely clever twists and turns. Some extremely sexually explicit scenes might raise an eyebrow (!) or two. Best of all, Hutson sends the genre up mercilessly and must have written this with his tongue painfully and permanently embedded in his cheek. Devotees of the chiller genre will absolutely love this. Me?  I felt like I needed a bath afterwards, but am happy to acknowledge a very effective horror novel.	2000-09-06
US	50767211	R2WUD3OODVQ9ZO	0449910555	209698720	The Presence	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Reasonable but strains the credulity and irritates in places	Just to add my short twopennyworth to what's already been said; the general consensus is that there are many better thrillers out there and  many a damn site worse. I honestly cannot disagree with that. Whilst I  found the characterisation fairly strong (if a tad stereotypical at times),  the lush descriptions of Maui very satisfying and the clammy claustrophobia  of the breathing theme very effective, there were quite a few gaping holes  in the plot that sadly diminish the reader's enjoyment. ** WARNING SPOILERS  AHEAD ** For example, Katharine turning ace detective rather than going to  the police earlier on is a bit Scooby-Dooish isn't it? The astronomical  mathematics of the fading supernova simply don't add up (if it's 15 million  light years away, that means it actually went nova 15 MYA, so how long  before were the &quot;seeds&quot; despatched then to reach Earth before  life appeared?) and the vilain flying his helicopter soooo low over the  volcano is just asking for trouble and we all know what's going to happen!  There's also a little bit of Darwinian dogma thrown in for good measure, to  annoy the creationists out there. But come on frip; fair's fair. Despite  the numerous niggles, I still quite enjoyed The Presence. It rattles along  at a cracking pace, firing on the majority of its cylinders most of the  time. There are worse ways to while away an evening or two and I am looking  forward to exploring some other books by this prolific author.	2000-09-01
US	50767211	R16PJRZZOJG4HP	0345430751	138364901	Manifold: Time	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Gotta make way for the homo superior	Baxter does it again with an immensely thought provoking blend of hard science and visionary fiction.  Like its predecessors - the excellent  Moonseed and Titan, Time starts in a world instantly recognisable to us.  The impetus of the space race has long since died and responsibility falls  on our entrepreneurial hero Malenfant to rekindle the dream. It would be  inappropriate to include any spoilers in this review, but suffice it to say  that each of the manifold sub-plots has enormous relevance to today's  world; Cyberluddism, genetic enhancement, religious fundamentalism, SETI,  ecological disaster and, perhaps scariest of all, the appearance in our  midst of a next generation of humankind, so intellectually advanced as to  generate resentment and homicidal hatred amongst the &quot;normal&quot;  disenfranchised homo sapiens. I have always expected nothing less than  mind-bogglingly grandiose scope in a Baxter novel and, for my money, Time  is his most poetically creative to date. If one universe is not enough,  let's have a dozen or a thousand! The fact that the roots of the novel are  all based in genuine contemporary science adds to its substantial impact.  Astonishing stuff!	2000-08-23
US	50767211	R20LEZLJM9ZYMS	0451196716	882393531	The Long Walk	Books	4	5	7	N	N	You are Stephen King and I claim my proper ending!	The Long Walk is one of a handful of short novels that King wrote under the Bachman pseudonym. It seems to have sprung from the same kernel of  inspiration as the more famous and more hip, but less intense &quot;Running  Man&quot;. Both novels are set in a near-future USA where the most popular  form of public entertainment is watching losing contestants &quot;buy their  ticket&quot; in a diabolical game show spectacle. <br />At the outset, the  central character Garraty, is joined by 99 other hopefuls. The rules are  simple; walk until you drop. Anyone unable to maintain a minimum pace or  who attempts to escape is summarily despatched by the dispassionate  military escorts. Along the way, our hero (who, importantly, is just an  ordinary guy. He is YOU) is touched by friendship (McVries saves his life  and keeps his spirits up), hatred (Barkovitch, who is demonised by the  other contestants and ultimately becomes a pathetic sight, pleading for  reconciliation), pity, horror, contempt, love, bitter humour and even a  numbing morbid ambivalence through his sporadic conversations with the  seemingly unstoppable Stebbins. You will have gathered by now that this is  pretty deep stuff and far from being a typical King novel. The parallels  between the Long Walk and each of our journeys through life are clear and  profound. It made me consider my own mortality on many occasions and I  salute King for achieving the almost perfect balance between exciting  non-stop action and penetrating and memorable allegory.<br />Furthermore, the  book is almost unputdownable. I defy anyone not to feel obliged to complete  it in one sitting. The image of the journey, both physical and metaphorical  is an extremely powerful one. Just like Garraty is compelled to put one  foot in front of the other the reader feels obliged to plough on chapter  after chapter to see what lies around the next corner or who is the next to  drop. And drop they do! I was concerned that King may have his work cut out  to maintain the reader's interest through 99 executions. He does though;  from the spectacularly messy death of the wretched Olsen to the quiet and  poignant demise of the &quot;unknown boy&quot;.<br />For my money, I regard  this as probably King's greatest achievement, so why not top marks then?  Simply because ultimately The Long Walk doesn't quite deliver the goods.  What would have been a very interesting theme - the boys motives for  entering the Walk and the pressure placed upon them from family, friends,  lovers and the wider community, is only touched on very briefly. Most  disappointing of all however, was the denouement. NEVER BEFORE HAVE I FELT  SO CHEATED BY A BOOK'S ENDING!  OK, so we can all guess who's going to win  the Long Walk, but what does the victor chose for his prize? Does he use it  to hit back at authority? Does he even survive long enough to claim it? How  does it affect his relationships and plans, etc, etc, etc? <br />I'm sorry  Stephen King, but after stoking your readers' emotions to such a height,  you should not leave us checking our copies of the book in case some  malevolent person had torn the epilogue out!	2000-08-07
US	50767211	R1LIBMI22M7AM9	0312866240	880608505	The Dark Beyond the Stars: A Novel	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Time Waits For No-one	This immensely thought-provoking sci-fi extravaganza must surely be the most vibrant depiction ever of the generation-ship concept.<br />The Astron, once the shining zenith of humankind's technological achievement, has been  in deep space searching unsuccessfully for alien life for two millennia,  and is now rapidly falling into decrepitude. Robinson paints vivid pictures  of the grime-smeared bulkheads, the fetid stench of recycled air, bland  reconstituted food and gradually failing life support systems. In this  daunting environment however, the ever hopeful spark of human spirit shines  forth like a diamond. The few hundred crew represent a true microcosm of  humanity. Good, bad, noble and treacherous; everyone has hidden depths and  all the time in the world to reveal them. <br />The skillfully depicted  dynamic human interaction would be enough in itself to recommend this book.  But there's more, much more. Our hero - Sparrow's quest for his missing  memories reveals intrigue and mind-blowing secrets of Machiavellian  proportions, which lead to a breathtaking conclusion. Throughout,  Robinson's prose is flawless - I'm sure I shivered whilst reading the  description of the frozen methane hell of Aquinas II. My only criticism  would be that the novel does take rather a long time to gather momentum. It  is a substantial work (over 400 pages) and its measured pace may not appeal  to lovers of more conventional action-packed sci-fi. <br />The poignancy in  the book's denouement, generated by relentless turning of the wheel of  time, has a profound philosophical edge to it and will certainly make you  consider your own humanity. I am very glad to have read this book.	2000-07-28
US	50767211	R3U77QXAEC1H24	0812548051	361278280	Wizard's First Rule (Sword of Truth, Book 1)	Books	3	12	16	N	N	Derivative but Powerful S &amp; S Fable	I guess it is inevitable that every Swords and Sorcery novel should give a respectful nod or two to Tolkien's masterpiece. Wizard's First Rule bears perhaps more similarities than most and the reader must be forgiven for  playing spot the parallels here. We have the slightly eccentric wizard Zedd  (Gandalf), a stout yeoman man-at-arms character Chase (Aragorn), a creepy  but tragic transformed creature Samuel (Gollum), rampaging hearthounds  (Wargs), and of course the brave if reluctant hero Richard (Frodo).  We  have a journey from the cosy West to the spooky East, a talking dragon, a  royal revelation etc.  Goodkind has clearly employed a large dose of the  sincerest form of flattery here! As the tale unfolds however more of  Goodkind's own inventiveness becomes apparent. On the emotional level, some  scenes are decidedly strong stuff. The smouldering sexual chemistry between  Richard and Kahlan becomes surprisingly steamy at times. Scenes of  prolongued torture leave few details hidden. Some decidedly distasteful  subjects are included, such as rape, infanticide and paedophilia, to depict  graphically the evil that Richard must conquer. Areas that Tolkien would  leave to the reader's imagination, Goodkind lays bare in often excruciating  detail. The tale gathers much momentum in the latter stages and I  contentedly stayed up until the early hours to read the rivetting  denouement. So, all in all, this is a worthwhile read and the sum of its  parts amounts to rather more than just another Lord of the Rings tribute.  Oh and I must say that Goodkind's dragon is rather nice!	2000-07-18
US	50767211	R1URFUZBCXNX1O	0062502182	472619578	The Alchemist: A Fable About Following Your Dream	Books	1	236	283	N	N	Both original and inspiring ...	... unfortunately the original bits aren't inspiring and the inspiring bits aren't original. (Ok, OK, if Coelho can rip ideas off why can't I?). <br />This I-Spy book of philosophy is nothing more than 10th rate, watered  down Voltaire. For Santiago, read Candide and you'll get some idea of where  Coelho's influences came from. If you have not already read Candide or  Micromégas, then you may find a spark or two of inspiration within The  Alchemist, as Coelho does pull the right string occasionally, making the  reader ponder where life is taking them and the essential power each of us  possesses to change things. Admirable stuff indeed! When, however one  recognises how dirivative and inferior Coelho's writings are, the message  becomes tainted, insubstantial and ultimately worthless. <br />By all means  click to register your disapproval of my little review, but please, try  Voltaire's Candide, either in the original version (if your french is up to  it) or in one of the excellent english translations available, and  experience the wisdom and humour of a true master who genuinely understood  life's great comedy. Coelho falls far short of those he seeks so  desperately to emulate.	2000-06-24
US	50767211	R2FDWYTD58C47P	0224029363	51195765	Myths of the Near Future	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Life at a Tangent	I am not usually a devotee of the short story compilation, but found this collection by Ballard, surely the most cerebral of sci-fi authors, to be utterly compelling. Nine of the works (the tenth &quot;Dead Time&quot;  seems oddly out of place here),  are complete entities in their own right,  but together, compliment each other into creating a bizarre and disturbing,  but scarily plausible vision of what humankind is becoming. Civil war  erupts in the UK, whilst elsewhere, cyber-recluses fester in their fortress  homes. Folk experiment with practical time travel, living their lives in  fleeting moments of lucidity,  whilst others get married and have families  with spouses they can never meet. My particular favourite The Smile, rings  faint echoes of Wilde's Dorien Gray and chilled me to the bone though I  read it on a hot sunny day in my garden. Ballard's visionary style is as  innovative as ever, often employing startling imagery that grabs the reader  at a visceral level. Myths will not be to everyone's taste. If, however,  you are an adventurous soul, I thouroughly recommend this book which,  although parts of which are a quarter of a century old, remains hugely  valid today.	2000-05-03
US	50767211	RM834D666VDER	0575602260	114536845	Oracle	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Tu es non solus	Oracle is only the second Ian Watson book I've read, but I am very glad to have found this visionary sci-fi author. Like &quot;Flies of Memory&quot;, &quot;Oracle&quot; is written in a very inventive and sometimes startling style.  It also rattles along at a cracking pace and is an almost perfect  blend of thought-provoking time travel yarn and political thriller. Let's  face it, all sci-fi devotees love the time travel theme, and this one is  better than most. The attention to detail is exceptional - one of Marcus'  biggest problems is coping with lower case letters and non-Roman numerals  for example. I also felt an immediate empathy with our reluctant hero Tom,  who drinks real ale and knows which bridges have speed cameras on the M1!  My only adverse criticism would be at the occasionally heavy-handed  politics, which some may find irritating. Overall though, an extremely  entertaining read, which leaves the way open for a fascinating sequel  (please Ian!).	2000-04-03
US	50767211	R23I31VWVLK0MD	0671704184	257613214	Weaveworld	Books	3	35	46	N	N	A Powerful But Tainted Vision	Weaveworld is a bludgeoning fusion of occult schlock-horror and heroic fantasy and is populated by a motley of vividly depicted characters. Cal and Suzanna's mundane entry on the scene contrasts effectively with the  other-worldly horrors than ensue. The intriguing child/man Nimrod provides  some humerous tableaux. Immacolata provides us with a deliciously evil  villainess, her character made all the more complex by elements of  poignancy and reconciliation surrounding her demise, and the chief  miscreant -  Shadwell is an effective personification of the &quot;all  power corrupts...&quot; maxim. <br />The sheer vileness though of some of the  apparitions that Barker conjures forth demands the reader possess a strong  stomach and reminds us that, first and foremost, this is a horror novel.  What else should we expect from the author who gave us the visceral terrors  of Hellraiser? The tale is also frequently punctuated by explicit (and some  may say unnecessarily gratuitous) sexual imagery, which some may find  tasteless. <br />One major problem I had with Weaveworld is that I felt it  reached its peak about two thirds of the way through. The most satisfying  chapters are undoubtedly Cal and Suzanna's adventures in the Fugue and  their heart-stopping flight to keep out of Shadwell and Hobart's clutches.  Once the Fugue is unwoven though and the Seerkind scattered, the tale seems  to lose direction somewhat. In particular the appearance of the entity  calling itself Uriel really doesn't seem to fit comfortably with what has  gone before and reads more like a novella in its own right. I'm afraid for  me, the conclusion of the Uriel episode reminded me of some of Star Trek's  more hackneyed finales, and I must confess to feeling slightly cheated by  the rather tame conclusion. <br />Overall though, Weaveworld is undoubtedly a  pretty compelling read and reminds one of some of the more macabre  paintings of Bosch or Breughal brought to life. Be warned though; it oftenplumbs the depths of depravity and the aftertaste it leaves may be  something less wholesome than the sweet nectar of Jude pears!	2000-02-09
US	50767211	R3NHVO5HM9SH54	0671036688	733935310	Inversions	Books	4	15	16	N	N	The more you put in, the more you'll get out.	Being an Iain M Banks' work, the reader naturally expects this to be a further episode of the Culture sci-fi series. At first sight however, Inversions appears to be a straightforward tale of love, war and  Machiavellian intrigue set in a brutal medieval environment. The story  unfolds in separate but strangely complimentary alternate instalments,  describing the adventures of the beautiful, vastly knowledgeable but  mysteriously other-worldly Dr. Vosill and the powerful and lethal but  profoundly sensitive bodyguard DeWar. The plot is further complicated by  the questionable veracity of the narrator. Thus we have stories within  stories, and when DeWar starts speaking in allegories things become  decidedly complex! After each chunk of story I found myself speculating on  whether to take the narrative at face value or dredge for hidden depths.  Sometimes I felt obliged to revisit earlier chapters in case I'd missed a  clue, sometimes a flash of realisation would hit me hours later. There are  tantalising but elusive echoes of scenes from earlier IMB novels and  believe me, you will get far more from Inversions if you have also read  Consider Phlebus, Player of Games, State of the Art and Use of Weapons. So  what drove DeWar's obsession with the fables about the fantasy land? Who  were Sechroom and Hiliti? Was Vosill a Culture dilettante, covert  ambassador, or simply a love-struck foreigner? Was sorcery, sheer chance or  a miniature Culture self-defence drone the architect of the astonishing  scenes that led to Oelph's and Vosill's salvation in the torture chamber?  Which of the alternative endings is most plausible or satisfying? IMB  forces the reader to think long and hard about these conundrums and much  more. Inversions is never an easy read, demanding much from the reader,  lest the subtle undercurrents essential to a comprehensible conclusion be  overlooked. If, however you possess an adventurous and inquisitive spirit,  I am sure you, like I, will find Inversions immensely satisfying.	2000-01-21
US	50767211	RSLBXOR1RDDU2	0451455703	268927571	Gate of Ivory, Gate of Horn (Mythago Wood)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A haunting and moving fantasy	Holdstock's latest welcome addition to the Mythago series is, chronologically-speaking, a prequel, focusing chiefly on George Huxley's (possibly) ill-fated son Christian. Gate of Ivory stands up very well  however as a complete story in its own right and would be an excellent gate  of entry for any lovers of heroic fantasy to pass through, who have yet to  sample the delights and terrors of Ryhope Wood. <br />Intertwined around the  principal saga, which concerns Christian's quest to exorcise the dreadful  memories of his mother's suicide, are numerous enthralling sub-plots, each  containing echoes of half-remembered legends, which grab the reader at a  visceral level. Anyone who has ever loved will feel a pang of recognition  with Christian's pursuit of Guiwenneth and the parallel myths that draw  Issabeau and Someone together have a lot to tell us about finding ones  soul-mate. Holdstock tells us much about the true nature of friendship and  respect and also makes us taste the bitterness of irrevocable loss. To  compliment the profundity however, there is also much levity. Gate of Ivory  contains probably more humourous tableaux than any other Mythago novel;  Kylhuk's diet, Christian's unwise mocking of Gwyr and his  &quot;recognition&quot; of Anambioros Son of Oisingeteros form amusing  counterpoints to the grim events that surround them. <br />Fundamentally, Gate  of Ivory is also a rattling good adventure story with swords and sorcery  aplenty and heroic journeys through some very strange lands and with  equally strange travelling companions. <br />I wholeheartedly recommend this  novel to all lovers of fantasy.	2000-01-04
US	50767211	R3FLX02LO2BF4U	0380786982	495928980	Moonwar	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Space soap opera at its worst	I am astonished that anyone could give this 5 stars! Come on guys; are you really classing this politically-correct, stereotypical pot-boiler up there with Dune, 2001, Consider Phlebas etc? Moonwar has a very strong  &quot;made-for-TV&quot; feel to it and amounts to little more than Dallas  or Dynasty in space. The undemanding little yarn may keep you mildly  interested for a few hours, but where's the depth or the meaning? I'm  afraid I cannot recommend Moonwar, because I truely believe Sci-fi should  be more visionary than this.	1999-12-13
US	50767211	R2SJ0ORGVBP36R	0061057134	893664393	Titan (NASA Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Great stuff - but it'll put you off space travel for life	In a similar vein to the excellent Moonseed, Titan starts off rather slowly. I personally didn't find the political background particularly enthralling and fear that the early lack of pace could dissuade some  readers from completing the book. Once the mission starts however, Baxter's  research really pays off and I was totally hooked. The physical dangers,  smells, claustrophobia and sheer cruddy squalor of space travel has never  before been so vividly portrayed. I now have some understanding of the  heroic feat of those guys on Mir! Someone criticised the book because they  disliked the characters. I would argue that this is because the characters  seem so real, with their hang-ups and warts and all - just like the rest of  us! This is far more satisfying than the one-dimentional caricatures you  tend to find in a Bova novel for example. OK, so Mr NASA expert could pick  a few holes in the technology, but to the average punter, this is the next  best thing to being there (not that I'd particularly want to!). Great stuff  and a suitably visionary ending.	1999-11-23
