US	50762351	RI3J87W1BJK0H	0071411666	531651443	Opportunities in Religious Service Careers (Opportunities InSeries)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Opportunities in Religious Service Careers (John O. Nelson)	John O. Nelson's small but informative book has been updated for 2004. <br />Nelson right away explains that a call to religious service is much different than picking a career in another field. Religious service can carry with it prejudice and stigma, as many in today's society grapple with spiritual issues involving the church in their lives. <br />The book is very small, just one hundred and twenty eight pages of text, but it is a good starting point to launch a more thorough search into the area. Nelson keeps his discussion centered on the three more popular belief systems in North America: Protestant, Catholic, and Judaism. Other religions may find something helpful here. Nelson opens with a brief description of vocations in religion, and then discusses offshoots of religious careers that many may not think of. <br />Not everyone is interested in becoming a member of the clergy or preaching in front of a congregation, and Nelson acknowledges that. He also notices that some church leaders do not even have a high school diploma, but do just as good a job as someone weighted with degrees. Nelson mentions other careers &quot;behind the scenes,&quot; as it were. Chaplains for the military, prisons, or hospitals; religion teachers; missionaries; religious musical careers; church administration; all of these are briefly hit on in seperate chapters, yet the main thrust of the book deals with worship leaders. <br />An ordinary day in the clergy's life is described, and how much salary and benefits have changed over the years (pastors do not work just one hour a week, and preaching is not &quot;its own reward). The appendices consist of religion yearbooks where more information can be gleaned, other sources of information, and most impressive- a list of addresses and websites for over two hundred accredited theological schools in the United States and Canada. <br />Again, this is not an in-depth search into your soul to see if God is speaking to your heart. Nelson even advises keeping a calling secret, in case your mind is changed later. However, this book is a great place to begin. Nelson is a well known writer and former instructor at Yale's divinity school, so he knows what he is talking about. I recommend this book as a starting point.	2004-01-21
US	50762351	RKWHE6AMDH4GQ	031286311X	724506625	Legends and Lies: Great Mysteries of the American West	Books	5	38	40	N	N	Legends and Lies (Walker)	In twelve chapters, Walker touches on a dozen great mysteries of Western lore. He does not set out to solve any of them, but think again if you expect this book to do nothing but regurgitate old facts. <br />You may have heard of many of the stories in this book, since more than a few of them have been subjects of documentaries, especially on The Discovery Channel. The &quot;real&quot; death of Davy Crockett, what happened at the Battle of Little Big Horn, and who is buried in Jesse James' tomb have all been covered on television, too, which lends credence to Walker's research. But what about some cases you learned about in school, and find out later things may not have happened the way your teacher said? <br />I am writing of the strange suicide of famed explorer Meriwether Lewis in Tennessee in 1809. All my life, I was told he killed himself, and that was that. Reading Lewis' book, we find he killed himself after being attacked by an unknown assailant. He was shot in the head (exposing his brain), and offed himself before anyone else could come back and finish the job...um, yeah. A move is on to dig up Lewis and do an autopsy (since he slashed himself to death (!)), and that might be a wise decision. <br />You may know that writer Ambrose Bierce wandered into revolutionary Mexico, and was never seen alive again, but did you know Boston Corbett, the man who killed John Wilkes Booth, also vanished in the American heartland? Or Black Bart, the famed stagecoach robber, also disappeared somewhere on the west coast? <br />What about the strange two deaths of Lewis and Clark's guide, Sacajawea? Or next time those nice missionaries from the Mormon Church come to your door and interrupt your supper, ask them about the Mountain Meadows Massacre, where Church militia members and local Native Americans wiped out close to one hundred and fifty members of a wagon train, all because of lies and rumors spread about these people all over Utah? <br />Was Jesse James really shot inthe 1880's? Did Billy the Kid really die in Arizona? Or did both men live into their nineties, getting to know each other in their new lives, and reluctantly coming out in the 1930's and 1940's? Okay, according to DNA testing, that is Jesse in his grave, lending little help to Brushy Bill Roberts' claims that he was Billy the Kid. <br />Living in North Dakota, I have always had an interest in Western history. George Custer left his house near present day Mandan and died in Montana. Lewis and Clark and Sacajawea spent winters up here, also near Mandan, on their great trek west and back. Teddy Roosevelt, after his mother and wife died on the same day, came to ranch near Medora, claiming he never would have had the courage to become president if it was not for his trials and tribulations in North Dakota. <br />Walker's book is interesting, even to laypeople who just have a passing interest in American history. The twelve chapters are evenly paced and never dull. There is an immense bibliography at the back of the book. A kind foreword by John Jakes, and Walker then plunges us into the &quot;old days,&quot; writing expertly and with enough description to read like fine fiction. <br />&quot;Legends and Lies: Great Mysteries of the America West&quot; is a fantastic starting point if you want to start reading more about Western history. There is such a variety of true stories, you can pick and choose your subject and become an armchair expert like I thought I was, until this book opened my eyes and has forced me to do some more reading. A good book will do that to you.	2004-01-21
US	50762351	R3UZEXE78VARWC	0060276975	929031309	Drummer Boy: Marching to the Civil War	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Drummer Boy (Turner & Hess)	Author Ann Turner and illustrator Mark Hess team up to tell the story of a drummer boy who joins the Union army in the U.S. Civil War. It is a wonderful book that does not talk down to children. <br />The protagonist is an unnamed thirteen year old rural farm boy. His brother, Jed, has already gone ahead to him into battle, and the boy yearns to join. He makes his decision after seeing President Abraham Lincoln at a train station. The boy feels the sad president was looking right at him, needing him to serve his country. The boy's family seems rather indifferent to the slavery issue, feeling it is none of their business, but the boy does sympathize for the slaves. He writes a goodbye note, and leaves home. <br />He enlists, lying and claiming to be fifteen years old, and is assigned to be a drummer boy. He becomes part of his company, and then goes into his first battle. The terror of the cannon noise and falling bodies around him freeze him in place. A soldier dies holding his hand. Soon, the boy is almost a veteran, the battles run together. The faces of his friends and acquaintances blur together as well, and he takes special care to remember each and every one, since they may not be there the next day. The final page gives adults and children alike something to ponder, in the voice of the battle hardened boy: \\"And when the war's over and I go home, I'll stop to talk to Mr. Lincoln and tell him how it's his fault, how his great, sad eyes made me go and see things no boy should ever see.\\" <br />\\"Drummer Boy\\" is a wonderful book for all ages. The text and pictures are just twenty eight pages long, with an interesting one page historical note, and Turner and Hess do not waste a word or image. Drummer boys were not just children who banged on the drums during battles, the drums were used to signal orders to the troops, making the children prime targets for the enemy. <br />The book is large, and every illustration by Hess would look wonderful framed on a wall. His portrait of Lincoln, and two page painting of slave quarters, are breath taking. I went back through the book at its conclusion, just trying to take in the pictures on their own. Turner does not overdo the contemporary vernacular, you come to care for this boy as a real person. Her writing is not overwhelmed by the art, both complement each other excellently. <br />\\"Drummer Boy\\" is appropriate for ages four through eight, according to the jacket notes. I think it is appropriate for any age above four, telling such a strong story in such little space. Truly a treasure.	2004-01-21
US	50762351	R1AKD1KN6K0DTA	0618065571	35848199	Ghost Towns of the American West (Historical and Old West)	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Ghost Towns of the American West (Written by Raymond Bial)	Raymond Bial attempts a monumental task- tracing the history of ghost towns in a children's book. He does not succeed. <br />The book is populated with some lovely color photography of a couple of ghost towns in the American west. The text is easy to read, better for children eight and up. Quoting Mark Twain is always a surefire way to endear an author to this reader, and Bial does this on a couple of occasions. According to the book, Twain once wrote of Virginia City, Nevada: \\"If a man wanted a fight on his hands without any annoying delay, all he had to do was to appear in public in a white shirt or stove-pipe hat, and he would be accomodated.\\" <br />The book fails in its one main objective- a history of ghost towns. Bial uses so many generalities, but few examples, that some kids might feel like they are being talked down to, especially considering the book's bold title. Bial also glosses over the violence of the west, sugar coating Billy the Kid, and the gunfight at the OK Corral. Instead, Bial writes of phantoms roaming the abandoned sites, as if everyone should take the term \\"ghost town\\" literally, and murder and mayhem is swept under the rug. No, I do not think your kids need to see crime scene photos, but ignoring the violent past would give children a false sense of what many people went through back then. <br />We do learn life was rough, and death comes quickly, but I found the book to be just as dry and empty as the towns Bial attempts to describe. The photographs are nice, until further reading in the credits indicate that only a couple of places were photographed, ghost towns that are now tourist destinations. <br />The book is under fifty pages, maybe Bial should have concentrated his subject to in-depth profiles of a couple of ghost towns, instead of jumping from the Gold Rush of 1849 to George Custer to Wild Bill Hickok, without any chance to put these historical events and figures in context. Women and children are mentioned, but kids may have beenable to associate more with the book if children's lives in these towns one hundred years ago had been explored. Bial claims there are tens of thousands of ghost towns spread across all fifty states, yet he only mentions a few in passing. <br />\\"Ghost Towns of the American West\\" is a very average children's book. Kids interested in history or cowboys might be better off finding another source. Raymond Bial tries to put too much in, not realizing he never comes up with enough.	2004-01-21
US	50762351	R3Q4SKCVCQ0UBD	0373190409	65660685	Turn Back The Night (Silhouette Romance)	Books	1	0	0	N	N	Turn Back the Night (Written by Jennifer Drew)	Jennifer Drew is the pen name for a mother-daughter writing team. This is a relief, since I cannot imagine just one person could come up with a romance novel this unromantic. <br />I got this paperback in a box of books I bought from the local recycling center. It mentioned a ghost hunter on the back, so I figured this might be a cut above some of the pulp Harlequin/Silhouette is known to publish. I was wrong. <br />Dawn is a Chicago resident who goes to visit her sister Laura in the boonies of rural Wisconsin. Dawn is an antiques mall manager and dealer, and her business partner's name is Jane. Laura's husband Gary is away on business in Japan, leaving Laura in a large country farmhouse on her own. All of the aforementioned facts pelt the reader in the first two pages of exposition. <br />Also staying at the house is a psychologist, Aaron. It seems Laura heard some strange noises one night, and immediately called Aaron to investigate the paranormal phenomenon. Dawn is immediately suspicious of Aaron's motives, but attracted to Aaron. Aaron is just trying to help Laura, but is attracted to Dawn. Laura is a worrywart, and doesn't have a clue. <br />The following one hundred pages are an absolute waste of paper. Aaron investigates, Dawn is suspicious of everything, yet the two kiss and fall in love. When a ghost finally shows up, it is boring. The grand finale is scareless and predictable. <br />One of the many problems is that Aaron, Dawn, and Laura are the only characters for dozens of pages, and they are not interesting enough to read about. The authors also have an irritating way of switching points of view (even on the same page), so you are reading about Dawn's sexy summer outfit, her ability to do well at auctions, and her thick brown facial hair...before realizing Dawn is now describing Aaron. Another annoyance- one character will ask a simple question like \\"do you really believe in ghosts?\\" By the time all the characters bombard the reader with their internalthoughts, everyone's clothing is described, vocal inflections are analyzed, and the two lovers make goo-goo eyes at each other, someone answers \\"I can't answer that question,\\" and you must turn back the page to remind yourself what the original question was in the first place. <br />\\"Turn Back the Night\\" is one hundred and eighty five pages of hot air. I have an ex-sister-in-law who can plow through this type of romance novel in a couple of hours, it took me three weeks to read this.	2004-01-21
US	50762351	R36PVC2ADE4KJY	0385483767	66034390	An Underground Education: The Unauthorized and Outrageous Supplement to Everything You Thought You Knew out Art, Sex, Business, Crime, Science, Medicine, and Other Fields of Human	Books	4	111	116	N	N	An Underground Education (Zacks)	You must think you are the cat's patoot, so sure you know everything. You paid attention in class, got good grades, and everything Mr. or Mrs. Insert Teacher's Name Here said was true because they had a college degree and the bravery to stand in front of a bunch of slack jawed kids and try to teach them something. Well, have I got the book for you. <br />Richard Zacks explodes our often mythic look at the world. This is not just another \\"your teacher lied to you in school\\" book. Zacks backs up his own history with actual primary source documentation. As he writes, \\"I started muttering, 'You can't make this stuff up!'.\\" <br />Zacks has divided the book into ten different sections: Arts & Literature, Business, Crime & Punishment, Everyday Life, Medicine, Religion, Science, Sex, World History, and American History. While each section can be read separately, it may be hard to put down the book after just one helping. Zacks covers a wide range of topics, but always keeps his writing simple and unpedestrian. You quickly realize that all of these icons in history were actually people just like you and me. Mata Hari was no genius spy, her mug shot taken before her execution shows a plain woman in her early forties. <br />William Shakespeare used to write down to his common audiences, letting loose with filthy puns lost on today's students. Mark Twain and Benjamin Franklin, two of America's greatest humorists, both worked blue, writing material that you will not see in copies of \\"The Adventures of Tom Sawyer\\" or \\"Poor Richard's Almanack.\\" You think Iraqi war profiteering is something new? Pity the poor soldiers of the Civil War, eating rancid meat and trying to fight with ancient weaponry all sold to the United States government by greedy business tycoons. <br />Speaking of the Civil War, did you know that almost a million slaves held in the Union states of Delaware, Maryland, Kentucky, and Missouri were not freed until AFTER their enslaved brothers to the south? Thank the thirteenth amendment, since the Emancipation Proclamation only dealt with slaves in the Confederacy. <br />The material covered is immense, from the race to build the first electric chair to the world's first indoor toilet. Hermaphrodites, bestiality, and a pope pushing cocaine laced wine, oh my! <br />Zacks litters his text with photos, but they add to the prose. He lets his opinions be known often, from his outrage over the lynchings of the early twentieth century, to defending Amerigo Vespucci in light of criticism by others. Christopher Columbus does not get off as easily. He highlights the common as well as royal historical figures <br />\\"An Underground Education\\" is a very good read. Once in a while, Zacks makes his point early, and a couple of vignettes run a little long (especially privateers in the Revolutionary War, and some of the business anecdotes), but the things you discover will outweigh any boredom you feel. If education is the key to success, then Zacks takes that key and breaks it off in the lock.	2004-01-21
US	50762351	R1DF9VT8DYM6MO	086547544X	733982902	Gothic: Four Hundred Years of Excess, Horror, Evil and Ruin	Books	3	13	26	N	N	Gothed	Subtitled \\"Four Hundred Years of Excess, Horror, Evil, and Ruin,\\" this book is not what one should buy for your weird teen goth nephew who wears a nose ring, black fingernail polish, listens to Marilyn Manson, and hangs out at the food court at the mall.<br />Davenport-Hines' book is strictly a historic work, tracing gothicism from the middle ages to today. While most of the book is interesting, the field is so big that the author can only bring surface examples to light without probing them too deeply. He has a section on the music of the Cure, and the literature of Poppy Z. Brite, but chose not, or just could not, interview either one of them.<br />The author's biggest mistake is the amount of pages spent on gothic architecture. The first half of the book is full of castle names, earls and dukes, and is of little interest to those who want to read about the gothic lifestyle.<br />The author does deconstruct the literature of Edgar Allan Poe and Nathaniel Hawthorne rather well, in addition to a myriad of British authors whose names I am not familiar with, but might be interested in now. His coverage of gothic art is average. The book includes photographs of many pieces of art, but the author must resign himself to describing pieces he could not include in the pictures, leading to reader frustration.<br />I do slightly recommend this book, but do not be fooled by its dark cover. This covers four hundred years of gothic HISTORY, not four hundred years of your nephew hanging out at the mall and listening to Marilyn Manson (who is not covered here).	2002-09-18
US	50762351	R2BNIUBPJ7JOZB	1555461646	186451200	Guam (Let's Visit Places & Peoples of the World)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	How to Make an Island Paradise Seem Boring	Lutz writes an eighty page encyclopedia entry, giving you everything you ever wanted to know about this Pacific island, while proving he did not step foot on the island.  The photographs seem to be from the 1960's, despite the 1987 book copyright date.  The Guamanians are portrayed as backward and overly reliable on the government to cure its ills.  Although this site lists this as a kids book, your child will be bored silly.	2002-07-06
US	50762351	R1H2M1KZXZEGXU	1880448785	643454638	On Writing Science Fiction: The Editors Strike Back	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A great book for ALL fiction writers	The 1981 editors of Asimov's magazine use stories from their own periodical to illustrate some excellent points about how to write good science fiction.  Do not worry if your stories do not involve robots and aliens, any fiction writer would find plenty to help here.<br />Despite the outdatedness, as the editors lecture on how to set your typewriter in order to produce clear manuscripts, using the short stories is a great idea.  Even the stories' authors admit their work is flawed.  Throw in a great bibliography and reading list, and some very funny observations from the editors about submissions (they are rejecting papers you typed on, not you personally) and this is a quick read and very informative.  I highly recommend it if you can find it!	2002-06-24
US	50762351	R1I8I4ZVJMIN62	0898794420	360368413	How to Write Horror Fiction (Genre Writing Series)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	How to Write Horror Fiction (Wr. by William F. Nolan)	Who better to teach the unintiated how to write genre fiction than the man who wrote the novel &quot;Logan's Run&quot;?  This book is over a decade old, and a little dated here and there.  Nolan covers basic mistakes made by horror writers- from indestructible villains to too many monsters to finding a happy medium between splatterpunk and mystery.<br />Nolan even takes the reader by the hand and guides them through a breakdown of his own short story, &quot;The Pool.&quot;  He also provides small bios of Stephen King, Anne Rice, and other successful horror writers, proving the point that these icons also had to get their starts somewhere.  Nolan's best advice to the aspiring horror writer?  READ, and read often.  And do not read just horror, broaden your horizons to other genres and poetry, so all of your output does not end up reading like the Dean R. Koontz novel you just finished.<br />Nolan also puts incredible appendices in here, listing suggested anthologies to seek out, and perhaps he should add his own book to the list.  This is very inspiring, without treating the reader like a five year old who must be led from idea to manuscript layout.  Nolan stresses individuality, and the reader will appreciate that.  I highly recommend this guide, which is short and can be finished in one sitting.	2002-06-13
US	50762351	R1GIG1OOK8H3OE	081182621X	851528357	Love and Desire: Photoworks	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Love and Desire: Photoworks (Wr. by William A. Ewing)	This four hundred page volume is a followup to the photography book entitled \\"The Body,\\" which had pictures of just that.<br />Here, Ewing collects mostly black and white photography from the last one hundred and fifty years into the volume. He seperates them according to different \\"genres\\": Bonds, Icons, Observations, Propositions, Tokens, Libidos, Reveries, and Obsession.<br />With these genres, all collected under the broad \\"love and desire,\\" a case could be made as to why the editor put some pictures in \\"Tokens,\\" but not \\"Libidos.\\" The book tries to be an overview of love in photography, but barely scratches the surface.<br />The good news is the collection he does have is marvelous. I read the book in one sitting, the genre intros are short, but the photos here are wonderful. Ewing provides excellent credits, letting the reader try to find more work by photographers they have never heard of.<br />The opening introduction essay, capsulizing the history of photography is both too long and dismissive. Ewing laments the use of the camera by the common person to take family photos, not realizing that every snapshot cannot be art.<br />With all the photography here, the volume is one that can be picked up and perused again and again. Despite some spotty editorial choices, I highly recommend it.<br />The book does contain explicit images of sex and nudity.	2002-06-12
US	50762351	R1QWA6BPR29L6E	0380713055	305744118	I Hate You, Don't Leave Me	Books	2	30	40	N	N	I Hate You, Don't Leave Me (Wr. by Kriesman and Straus)	Borderline Personality Disorder (BPD from here on out) has quite a few symptoms that some of us might experience today: a shaky sense of identity, sudden violent outbursts, oversensitivity to real or imagined rejection, brief and turbulent love affairs, frequent periods of intense depression, eating disorders, drug abuse, or other self-destructive tendencies, an irrational fear of abandonment, and an inability to be alone (taken from the book).<br />I am not familiar with this particular disorder, especially in this day and age when so many different psychological disorders exist and are talked about in the mass media almost constantly. The authors lay a groundwork through examples and the above listed behaviors to introduce a disorder that is not easily solved by a magic pill or a little therapy.<br />However, and this is a big However, the book is marketed as a self help book, but reads like a very difficult and very dull academic paper that was presented at a conference somewhere. The authors cover all of this material, and yet can only suggest therapy and medicinal help to solve the problem. The authors also suggest to therapists how to work with BPD patients, family and friends get advice on how to deal with BPD sufferers, but virtually ignore anyone reading this who might think they suffer from BPD, except to talk about long therapy sessions, and how BPD sufferers may not react well to that therapy.<br />The book has a copyright date of 1989, and has been reprinted dozens of times, but the book's publishers never felt a need to update the text, making awkward references to the Soviet Union and the Challenger explosion. Advances in anti-depressants are also ignored.<br />With the modern cover, and reader friendly back cover notes, you might pick this up thinking \\"I have those symptoms, this will help.\\" If anything this tome will lull you into complacent, calm boredom. I do not recommend this book. If you believe you are suffering from the above symptoms, you are better off seeking professional help instead of this.e better off seeking professional help instead of this.	2002-05-20
US	50762351	R1H9PZLZDKEFCC	0375700706	445103025	An American Dream	Books	4	6	7	N	N	An American Dream (Wr. by Norman Mailer)	You think Gary Condit has problems? Stephen Rojack is a former congressman, contemporary of John F. Kennedy, popular TV talk show host... and he has just strangled his estranged wife to death.<br />To cover his crime, he tosses her out of a tenth story window, then meets up with a gangster's moll/lounge singer named Cherry. If ever a character was written to be played by Charlize Theron, this is it. The police suddenly drop their suspicions of murder against Rojack because they have bigger fish to fry- namely some of Cherry's mobster friends. The novel takes a look at a day and a half in the life of Rojack, following his rendezvous with Cherry, Ruta (his wife's maid), and his eventual meeting with his wife's father, culminating with his own high rise theatrics.<br />This book moves very fast. The reader loves to hate Rojack. The novel is from his point of view, so we see the inner workings of his alcohol soaked mind. Mailer's descriptions are lucid, dense, and brilliant. You feel like you are in 1963 New York City, running from the police, smelling the smells of the squad room, and making love to exotic women.<br />What does not work here are the kind of mobsters that were threatening in 1963, but come off like characters in a bad straight to video Eddie Deezen comedy today. There is a subplot involving some of the characters' involvement in the CIA that is also dated, and Mailer's attempts at magical fantasies that Rojack takes us on in his mind are over the top and dull.<br />Other reviews I have read have mentioned this is a good starter to a Mailerphyte, and I would agree. \\"An American Dream\\" is entertaining, but not a perfect tome.<br />This novel features a lot of sex, violence, profanity, and more alcohol consumption than a frat during rush week, so the kiddies probably should not have this Dream.	2002-05-20
US	50762351	R2Q0U5QKSS1N3A	0312151918	529855097	Verses That Hurt: Pleasure and Pain from the POEMFONE Poets	Books	4	7	11	N	N	Verses That Hurt (ed. Jordan and Amy Trachtenberg)	A few years ago a voice mail was set up in New York City, and poets were called in every month to read a new poem everyday onto the message. Then the public could call in everyday, listen to the poem, and respond after the beep with anything they had to say. The poems were recorded on an album, and the best printed in this wonderful book.<br />The book came out in 1997. The phone number they have listed in the introduction is either wrong or changed, I called it twice and kept getting the voice mail to someone named \\"Kika.\\" The poets in this book are: Penny Arcade, Tish Benson, Nicole Blackman, David Cameron, Xavier Cavazos, Todd Colby, Matthew Courtney, M. Doughty, Kathy Ebel, Anne Elliot, Janice Erlbaum, Allen Ginsberg, John Giorno, John S. Hall, Bob Holman, Christian X. Hunter, Shannon Ketch, Bobby Miller, Wanda Phipps, Lee Renaldo, Shut-Up Shelley, Hal Sirowitz, Sparrow, Spiro, Edwin Torres, and Emily XYZ. All the poets get at least three poems, and very good portraits by photographer Christian Lantry. The poems are short enough that you can probably get through this in one sitting, or read a poet a day.<br />Penny Arcade starts the book off with a bang, using some really incredible verse. Tish Benson is next with poems that read like lazy blues songs, but filled with so much detail and activity, you can almost hear Billie Holliday gruffly whispering this in your ear. Nicole Blackman and her section is also incredible as she seems to speak for so many women who cannot find their own voice except hers. David Cameron's writing, while readable, is a little bland, like a freshman creative writing class. Despite his obvious emotion, I felt he was holding back on his own writing. Xavier Cavazos's section is slightly better, except for an entire poem that slams Rush Limbaugh. It may have been very clever when written and read, but it just give conservatives like Limbaugh more ammunition to go after art that they do not believe in. Why not a poem about Parkay hawking corporate monkey Al Franken, who had so much success slamming Limbaugh? Or Dennis Miller, whose rants against everybody was quickly dashed by asinine long distance ads. Nothing worse than a sell out. Todd Colby does better work with paragraph poems than traditional verse poetry. Matthew Courtney reads like poorly written Allen Ginsberg, full of \\"shocking\\" imagery and without a point. M. Doughty's work is scary and involving, and not your traditional stuff. Kathy Ebel left me with no response. I read it, I was done, and I was not terribly moved. Anne Elliot reads like poorly written Matthew Courtney. Janice Erlbaum is wonderful, filling a sonnet and sestina with modern situations, turning antiquity on its ear. Ginsberg is Ginsberg. Being a little familiar with his work, I expected to see poems about gay sex, followed by verses about a frog. Ginsberg is so Ginsberg. John Giorno's two poems are shocking, about more gay sex, and taking drugs. He seems to be shocking without TRYING to be shocking. I guess you could say his shock is natural.<br />John S. Hall also seems to be writing without getting to the heart of his point. His verse is so much posturing. Bob Holman is a bit of a bore, with quite a few poems here. Again, none stuck with me. Christian X. Hunter takes me into his world and it was hard to get out. He is probably my favorite poet here. Shannon Ketch reads like John S. Hall. Bobby Miller's very personal poems made me nostalgic for a time I could never experience. He writes about his first homosexual experience, and protesting Vietnam, so vividly, you swear you are there. Wanda Phipps opens with an angry poem, and never lets up. She is not threatening, but she has a lot to say. Lee Ranaldo also did not do it for me, his listed words seemed glossy and packaged. Shut-Up Shelley is fun because she is so different. Her changing font size on the page just screams at you, yet her photograph by Lantry shows her so whimsically. She is my second favorite poet here. HalSirowitz is my third favorite poet here, writing deeply personal poems about everyday things that had an obvious effect on his life. He is a blast to read aloud. Sparrow is weird. His first poem, involving possible sex with a cow, is a hoot, and his possible middle names for Bill Gates is a riot. Spiro is also very funny, especially his opening poem about heroin addiction. Edwin Torres also had me scratching my head for a while after I read him. His poetry is not hard, just inaccessible, and I was not interested enough in what he was saying to dig deeper. Emily XYZ reads like good Edwin Torres.<br />The 26 poets here are quite a variety, and I recommend this tome to any poetry lovers. I also repeat my mantra to read more poetry and keep buying those little chapbooks you might see in used bookstores or at flea markets. There is always time in your day to smarten up.<br />This does contain a lot of profanity, drug references, and sexual content, so giving it to your five year old to practice reading may not be a good idea.	2002-05-20
US	50762351	R3BA7RXF7GYVS	1570826129	235580722	R2-D2's Mission: A Little Hero's Journey/Book and Figure (Star Wars (Econo-Clad Hardcover))	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Star Wars: R2-D2's Mission (Wr, Jane Paley, Ill. Ken Steacy)	While I usually do not review my children's books, this one deserves a mention, especially at the price on the back cover of the copy we have.<br />This is a board book, with thick cardboard pages. The difference is there is a plastic R2D2 suspended in the spine of the book by a piece of nylon string. When you open the book, there he is, as if in the action being illustrated on the pages. Cute, huh?<br />The very, very basic story is the first \\"Star Wars\\" film , or should I write the first half of the first \\"Star Wars\\" film retold from R2D2's point of view. We see Princess Leia put in the data, he is bought by Luke Skywalker, they are saved by Obi-Wan Kenobi, who dutifully retrieves the data. The end.<br />The book is pretty harmless for kids, not dragging in any violence, battles, or even Darth Vader. Actually, younger kids might get a shock if they think \\"Star Wars\\" is about a cute robot and nothing more.<br />The plastic figure suspended on the string makes it difficult to shelve this little book. I am counting the days when the string will snap, and the story will be read with a gaping hole in the pages. The toy itself is nothing to look at, soft plastic and an assembly line paint job. The illustrations border on the \\"Saturday Night Live\\" adventures of the Ambiguously Gay Duo, not meant to do anymore than basically draw the characters to be vaguely identifiable. Obi-Wan looks like Santa Claus and Luke Skywalker looks like Princess Diana.<br />...This book is just sixteen pages. ..., and you get the little rubber toy for that poor 3-D effect, but isn't it sad that parents who are trying to please their children and their interests must pay this amount? Thank goodness we received this in a box of discarded toys from a cousin who had grown out of it. Any \\"Star Wars\\" fan would like this, other beware.	2002-05-20
US	50762351	R3MW9ZI4NL1TAR	0446517585	603658749	Clinton: Portrait of Victory	Books	2	19	28	N	N	Clinton: Portrait of Victory (Photographs by P.F. Bentley)	I am always fascinated with the Clintons. From Bill's exploits to Hillary's statement (after the Sept. 11th attacks) that she understands hatred because of reaction to her now forgotten health care plan, the former first family are like a grisly car accident that reaches the end of its first decade, and we still cannot help but watch.<br />&quot;Clinton: Portrait of Victory&quot; is a breathless mash note to the then new chief executive, chronicling Clinton's primary and general election wins. The entire book features black and white photography by P.F. Bentley, a photographer I am not familiar with, but who does a very good job.<br />Reading this book in one sitting, I was struck at the hopeful tone the pictures and essay author strike right off the bat. Roger Rosenblatt's prologue does nothing more than beat the poor reader over the head about how important it is that these are not those ultramodern &quot;color&quot; photos, but b&amp;w portraits. Rosenblatt equates Clinton to a god, and b&amp;w photos to eternal soul searching through the eyes of the photographer.<br />The photographer had unlimited access to the Clintons and his bold staff, but the book does not open any new doors to the first family. Subjects wring hands, anonymous crowds surge to their media made hero, and anyone who voted against him gets a little ill. You could cut out the pictures of Clinton, insert any other politician, and you would have the same book. The essayist (Rebecca Buffum Taylor) breathlessly tells us how hard it is to campaign, how hard everyone worked, and how hard it is to win. Clinton is shown in candid moments with his family and staff, yet they still feel staged, as if the subjects knew this would make a really cool book if he won, and a tragic tome on honorable defeat if he lost.<br />Some of the captions are unintentionally funny. Printed below a picture of Clinton enjoying a big cigar (obviously not his last): &quot;Clinton allows himself one small indulgence...&quot;. Ah, those small indulgences he would allow himself over the following two terms.h, those small indulgences he would allow himself over the following two terms.	2002-05-20
US	50762351	R2ONRRLU9WG79B	0684802783	359299285	Edward Albee: A Singular Journey: A Biography	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Edward Albee: A Singular Journey (Wr. by Mel Gussow)	Albee, the playwright of \\"Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?,\\" and other plays, is given a deluxe biographical treatment here from a writer who has known him for almost forty years...and sometimes worships him a little too much.<br />Albee was adopted by a wealthy, yet emotionless set of parents. His father, Reed, was absent, and his mother, Frankie, was cool and detached. This upbringing, where he was seen more as a possession than a family member, would of course affect his writings. Constantly kicked out of schools, and never graduating from college, Albee turned to writing, his first success being \\"Zoo Story.\\"<br />\\"Zoo Story,\\" a short play about a fateful meeting of two men in a park, received mixed notices from assorted playwrights and critics. Here, biographer Gussow overextends his protection of his subject too much. He dismisses the honest critiques of two playwriting giants- Thornton Wilder and William Inge, because they did not understand or like Albee's works. However, a bland positive response by Samuel Beckett is treated like a Dead Sea Scroll, to be picked apart and treasured. I have read \\"Zoo Story,\\" and it is wordy and preachy.<br />Albee's next big success was \\"Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?,\\" which was turned into a powerhouse film by Mike Nichols. Again, Gussow is flagrant in his criticism of someone involved with the film in order to placate Albee, and here, Nichols. The film's screenwriter, Ernest Lehman, is harshly criticized for opening the play slightly, yet just copying Albee's play. The bio's author, and Albee, make a point of needling Lehman's screenwriting credit on the film. Yet, Elaine May copied the French film \\"La Cage Aux Folles\\" word for word, adding what could be described as copious scenes at best, then took a big giant screenwriting credit for Nichols' \\"The Birdcage.\\" Watch both films back to back sometime, it is eye opening.<br />Gussow also fumbles in his outline of Albee's life. In Albee's less successful years, he is writing weird experimental plays with subjects like a man with three arms, and one play where two of the characters are sea creatures. After mounting all of these failures, Albee is defended endlessly by Gussow, who suddenly contributes an entire chapter about Albee's alcoholism. The alcohol is both a reason his plays were not celebrated, and a defense of the brilliant man.<br />The entire beginning of the book chronicles the complete lack of love Albee's parents had for him, yet the death of Albee's father is glossed over, barely mentioned. I had to reread the sentence a few times, since no followup is made about Albee's reaction. A whole chapter is devoted to his mother's demise, and her revenge on her own son in her will. More is written about one of his former lovers and honest critics, a frustrated musician. This \\"A Star is Born\\" redux is written about nicely.<br />Gussow does do well in describing Albee's assorted forays into theater, as playwright and director. Dirt about Donald Sutherland and Frank Langella is dished around. The bio's author is honest in Albee's lacking skills as a director, coming to the theater as a playwright and not an actor.<br />Albee, who prefers to be called a writer who is gay, as opposed to a gay writer, also has kind words for his longtime partner of over twenty years. Albee says a gay writer writes about being gay, whether the work is good or not is moot, since the writer knows the subject and is putting in the final word. A writer who is gay is not tied down to just homosexual topics, and is free to explore society without audiences looking for gay subtexts that do not exist. \\"Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?\\" is a seering look at two heterosexual couples, the sexuality of the playwright is nonessential in light of his characters and their actions.<br />Gussow wisely keeps talk of Albee's lesser known plays, and the ones readers probably have not read anyway, to a minimum. Albee's triumphant comeback play, \\"Three Tall Women,\\" is covered extensively. The play is about his mother, and so much more.<br />Reading this biography will make you curious to seek out some of Albee's other plays, just to see what makes him tick. Over seventy now, he is definitely an interesting man, and Gussow does catch that fact better than anything.<br />I recommend this book to theater lovers, and any writer who needs a little inspiration.	2002-05-20
US	50762351	R140MHYR2R946Z	0786881852	358457399	Don't Sweat the Small Stuff . . . and It's All Small Stuff: Simple Ways to Keep the Little Things from Taking Over Your Life (Don't Sweat the Small Stuff Series)	Books	2	14	21	N	N	Don't Sweat the Small Stuff... (Wr. by Richard Carlson)	Dr. Carlson has all the best intentions in this fluff filled little book suggesting to people how to live a stress free, happy life. Unfortunately, Carlson often doubles up on his advice and offers up some really strange strategies that often conflict with his own sage advice.<br />There are 100 little one and two page strategies to improve your life. The title comes from some advice Carlson was once given, that many little things in our lives are blown up into huge things. However, Carlson gives the exact same length to topics like being nice to others as he does to the joys of taking care of a house plant. It often is not enough. In one strategy, he will suggest listening to another's problems and letting them vent, and then suggest not trying to solve everyone's problems. We should spend all of our free time with those we love, but keep time out for yourself. Cut back on your activities and reflect, yet get involved with charity and service and give something back. Carlson will often repeat topics as well, mentioning the same Mother Teresa quote twice. One of his strategies calls on the reader to write heartfelt letters telling others how much you love them. If I received a letter like this from someone I have not had much contact with lately, I would be more worried about whether that person was saying goodbye to this cruel world than anything else.<br />I have seen Carlson on TV talk shows, and he comes off as very knowledgeable and sincere, but after many dozen one and two pages strategies your eyes will finally glaze over as the helpful sap gets a little deep.<br />Don't sweat the small stuff, and this book is just that. I cannot recommend it.	2002-05-20
US	50762351	R3MAKWB3CFNORK	0517371510	442129861	The Civil War: Strange & Fascinating Facts	Books	4	16	16	N	N	The Civil War: Strange and Fascinating Facts (Wr. by Davis)	Despite the title, these strange and fascinating facts may interest Civil War buffs, and not many others.<br />Davis, the author of several history books, takes the little stories and factoids he has collected in research and put them all here in small episodes. To appreciate the value of these stories, the reader should have more than a passing knowledge of the Civil War. Many names, dates, battles, and the like are tossed around by an author who knows his subject, and requires his readers to know some, too.<br />The stories here are very entertaining, covering subjects as varied as can be imagined. The Civil War was full of \\"firsts.\\" Firsts include: successful submarine, hospital ships, tobacco and cigarette taxes, and presidential assassination. The book also mentions Confederate States president Jefferson Davis more than Abraham Lincoln, possibly because Davis is barely a footnote in high school history books today. Stonewall Jackson, Ulysses Grant, and Robert E. Lee are also profiled. One entertaining chapter debunks many myths surrounding Grant's drunken war behavior.<br />Davis also gets serious, writing about widespread venereal disease on both sides, and the atrocities committed on civilians, which was evident on both sides as well.<br />Davis' book was published in 1960, and once again the publishers have decided to reprint the book many times without updating it. Davis mentions the upcoming centennial of the war, and mentions descendants of the major figures of the war and what they are doing today, or at least today forty years ago. Another drawback here is the lack of an index, leaving a serious researcher to have to skim the book looking for useful information. The author also mentions prices for Civil War memorabilia at current auction prices...forty years ago. Davis writes that more people lost their lives in the Civil War than in all the wars from the Revolution to our most current conflict...Korea.<br />I will recommend this book as a cursory pageturner. As a displaced Texan who descends from three Confederate soldiers (that I know of), I appreciated Davis' balanced view of both sides of the conflict. Too often today we lose sight of the fact that over 600,000 people lost their lives in this war, and not many people know much about it.	2002-05-20
US	50762351	R2W8MXW5I0615A	0385478003	286237398	Shot in the Heart	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Shot in the Heart (wr. by Mikal Gilmore)	This nonfiction effort, written by the younger brother of executed murderer Gary Gilmore (of \\"The Executioner's Song\\" fame) is one of the best books ever written about the downfall of a family.<br />Gilmore delves into the lives of his parents and brothers. His father, Frank Sr., was an older man who would run scams and con games, moving from town to town. He also married a half dozen times and fathered as many children under different aliases. Mikal's mother, Bessie, was a Mormon who grew up in another strange family, filled with death and belief in hauntings and spirits. Both parents beat their first three sons unmercifully. Frank Jr., Gary, and Gaylen seemed like normal little boys until their parents got done with them.<br />Mikal was the fourth son born, and probably got better treatment than the others. Frank Jr. disappeared after his brother's Gary execution, and was missing from Mikal's life for about ten years. Gary Gilmore spent most of his life in reform school and prison, before murdering two young men in Provo and being executed in Utah by firing squad. Gary's experiences in reform school, especially on his first night, is so horrible it is hard to forget (especially considering this type of behavior is happening to children). Gaylen was the third son, and almost as much of a criminal as Gary. He would end up dying young, the roundabout result of a mysterious stabbing that would not heal.<br />Gilmore's book, coming in at over 400 pages, is a fast paced read. He never tries to explain his brothers' behavior, and he does not defend them, he merely lays out the facts of their family's upbringing, and the reader experiences the shocking life the Gilmores went through. Mikal talks about his own experiences, and how his love of music eventually led to his career as a music journalist, writing for Rolling Stone.<br />There are revelations here that would seem right at home on a daytime soap opera if they were not real. Paternity, babies thought dead, maritalaffairs, greed, all are covered here, but in a manner that makes these incidents very sad. Television shows like \\"Jerry Springer\\" take these same kinds of lives and make them into a big joke and ratings booster, but when Mikal spits a half page venomous paragraph about an offhand comment by Maury Povich of the now defunct \\"A Current Affair,\\" you realize those shows are put on the air to hurt, not inform or enlighten.<br />This is a terrific book, and might be able to help put your own family's problems in perspective. That petty fight with your sister-in-law over the TV remote will definitely pale by comparison. Mikal Gilmore has written a powerful and passionate book about a subject he knows better than anyone. I highly recommend it.<br />This book does contain enough material that it is not appropriate for children or young teens.	2002-05-20
US	50762351	RZZ0I7Y0HTZ2P	0684834618	850286705	Tijuana Bibles: Art and Wit in America's Forbidden Funnies, 1930s-1950s	Books	4	23	24	N	N	Tijuana Bibles (Wr. by Bob Adelman)	From the 1930's through the 1950's, small eight page underground comics were distributed all over the United States. They were crudely drawn, even more crudely written, and usually involved popular icons of the day engaged in sexual acts, accompanied with some very blue humor in the form of dirty jokes and puns.<br />These were called Tijuana Bibles, and also known as Eight-Pagers, Two-by-Fours, Gray-Backs, Bluesies, Jo-Jo Books, Tillie-and-Mac Books, Jiggs-and-Maggie Books, and F**k Books, this according to introduction writer Art Spiegelman.<br />Author Bob Adelman has collected dozens of these rare bits of cartoon history and republished them here, adding a commentary by Richard Merkin, and putting these into a quasi-historical and sociological context.<br />Ever wonder what Popeye looked like while having sex? What about Donald Duck and Minnie Mouse talking dirty while going at it? What did Cary Grant and Alger Hiss look like during gay love? All of this and more are here.<br />This book does a better job of reprinting the Tijuana Bibles than anything, but reading a bunch of them in a row gets very tedious. The introduction warns against this, as well. The drawings are often very crude, and the humor is very old, since their prime era was in the 1930's. Also, all but a few of the artists were anonymous, and the printings were not done in the exotic locales of Havana, Tijuana, or London (as the little booklets claimed), but probably in some basement with a mob type watching over the production.<br />This is not just a book of dirty pictures, but a very interesting look at what the author calls early sex education. While body parts are rather exaggerated, young men could look at these in the days before government and school sponsored sex ed and have a vague idea of what to do.<br />If you have any of these dirty little books around, then hold on to them, they are rare. If you have this overview of the history of Tijuana Bibles around, keep it away from the kids,unless they are curious about the sex life of Dick Tracy or Dagwood Bumstead. I recommend this thin book to anyone who claims to be a fan of underground comics, or erotic art and cartoons.	2002-05-20
US	50762351	R242Z2UCH5MD9J	0446678430	327558409	Rich Dad's Retire Young, Retire Rich: How to Get Rich Quickly and Stay Rich Forever!	Books	2	35	44	N	N	Retire Young, Retire Rich (Wr. by Kiyosaki and Lechter)	If you have seen the new infomercials Robert Kiyosaki has made about retiring and making millions of dollars, you get the gist of this book.  It is a three hundred and thirty five page ad for all of his other products under his Rich Dad moniker.<br />Most frustrating is Kiyosaki's complete lack of skills as a writer.  He freely admits he is not a great writer, and proceeds to prove it.  He repeats himself constantly throughout the book, and writes pages of dialogue scenes he swears are from memory, but play like the worst staged scenes in an infomercial.<br />Kiyosaki also manipulates the reader with his constant berating.  If you are doubtful of his methods or if you question whether you can go running out and buying real estate without money down, then that is your problem.  You are wrong and he is right.  I was consistently made to feel stupid as I read this thing, and that was confirmed by the authors' smug attitude toward people who actually work for a living.<br />Kiyosaki also never gets specific about how to retire young and rich.  He dances around the subject, throwing out little helpful hints here and there, but never gets to the brass tacks when it comes to sitting down and doing it.  Recommending I go to seminars and hire a bookkeeper are lovely ideas...but then what??<br />If anyone is retiring young and rich, it is the people behind this three hundred page ad for other Rich Dad products.  If anything, reading this will inspire you to go it on your own, and ignore the advice of &quot;experts&quot; like this duo.  Don't waste your money, or self esteem.	2002-03-04
US	50762351	RDI1JMMW38VNI	0879751576	888445978	The Freedom Principle	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Easy to read explanation of libertarianism	Libertarians rejoice.  Although this book is out of print, find it in a library and give it to your local doubter.  It easily explains the libertarian philosophy in under 125 pages, and will convince even the most hardened liberal or conservative with its logic.	2000-11-17
US	50762351	R27BQVCD2QK0T1	0893815322	102792589	Edward Weston: Nudes	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Excellent book	This was the type of book I was looking for concerning Weston's nude photography.  The background, written by his wife and model, was excellent, and the pictures were laid out perfectly.  Highly recommended to any Weston fan.	2000-10-18
US	50762351	R19Y5CGUMJZLEX	0380814676	109367217	Mike Nelson's Movie Megacheese	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Literally the funniest book I have ever read	I am a longtime MSTie, and this book was absolutely hilarious.  Nelson's style of writing is so breezy, I felt like he was in the same room with me (although that may have been the shrine to him I erected in the linen closet).  I recommend this to any movie lover, and any fellow Upper Midwesterner; it is nice to see references to other parts of the country besides L.A. and NYC.	2000-09-29
US	50762351	R2983GYSXIB46O	1578562821	515146981	More Holy Hilarity (The Holy Humor Series)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	More Holy, Less Hilarity	You can read my review of the first book in the series and apply it here.  More of the same oft-told stories without trying anything new.  I will stick to the Church Chuckles series instead.	2000-09-26
US	50762351	R2QTXF2PWJPYHT	0671040537	141920144	The Stupidest Things Ever Said by Politicians	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Very funny, which is very scary	Sure, we know how dumb things find a way to get into our politicians' mouths (Monica excluded), but this very funny book just shows how repeatedly dumb some politicians can be.  Although I am Republican, I found most of the humor in Dan Quayle's quotes, of which there are many.  The scary thing is we continue to elect these people to office to represent and lead us.  Makes you think.	2000-09-26
US	50762351	RYROD5KMAV24A	0892213051	549248746	More Church Chuckles	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Not all church folk are uptight	This small, funny book proves you can go to church, live a good life, and still laugh at yourself.  I did not think this was as funny as the first one, but I am glad I have it.  Very insightful, funny stuff here.	2000-09-26
US	50762351	R74YZL8IB7ZAU	0156155516	689518606	Cat and Mouse	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Dead Grass	I thought Grass' use of language rivaled Nabokov in sheer enjoyment of reading, but the story here wandered and was a little pointless.  I was assigned this in a German film class, and enjoyed the film version of &quot;The Tin Drum&quot; much more.	2000-09-26
US	50762351	R3CFHA4YN5228S	0486206025	929339867	The Wit and Humor of Oscar Wilde (Dover Humor)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Doesn't Do Wilde Justice	While Wilde was one of the greatest wits of our time, this book of epigrams is sorely lacking.  His bits of conversation are fun to read, but quotations from his written works are taken out of context and lose much because of that.  I recommend this for any Wildephile, but with reservations.	2000-09-26
US	50762351	R1S859I96UJK54	1578562813	895915822	Holy Hilarity (The Holy Humor Series)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	More Hilarity Please	While this book was amusing, I have seen many of the items before, and I kept waiting for the various authors to break some real ground here, but they played it safe too often.	2000-09-26
US	50762351	R3TO5RD76N5TWR	1862048193	647969610	Relax, It's Only  A Ghost	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Relax, It's Only a Book	I certainly like Bodine's breezy way of writing, but I expected a little more from this than the shallow job I received.  I wish she had gone into research about the spirits she encountered so we would know for a fact that they existed as she claims.  Instead, she repeats herself often about the rules of ghosts, and tacks on a ridiculous chapter about dealing with a ghost.  Of course, she also claims the ultimate Catch-22: if you believe in the spirits, you can see them; if you do not see them, you are not a believer.  I will wait until I see them.  This was a really short read, but I wish it had more substance.	2000-09-25
US	50762351	R2KNZM7JJY6RHH	0893817473	7844929	Edward Weston: Masters of Photography Series (Aperture Masters of Photography)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Great Aperture Book	Wow, a photography book that you do not have to buy with a loan application or perfect credit.  Weston was such a commanding presence in so many photographic fields, and this overview of his work is great.  One quibble: I wish there had been better ties between the women in his life and the nudes featured here.  Who was who?  Also, his bio mentions the last photo he took, but does not include it.  Other than that, great work by a great artist and a great inspiration.	2000-09-25
US	50762351	RLGDPMQLR02L0	0893818526	440007958	Aperture 154: Explorations: Nine Portfolios (Aperture Magazine S)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Gorgeous, varied photography	The nine photographers featured here are so different that this edition of Aperture is a joy to look through.  I really treasure this and as an amateur photographer, it inspires me to do better with my new hobby.  I highly recommend this to anyone who can still find it.	2000-09-22
US	50762351	RVKNLPYU38ID6	0679723412	461432736	Pnin	Books	2	2	13	N	N	Pnin is Pdull	I loved Lolita, but I found this Nabokov story to be dull and pointless.  I was very disappointed despite all the wonderful language he uses.	2000-09-20
US	50762351	R8NWQ68JNJWRW	0944092284	433821024	Harms Way: Lust & Madness, Murder & Mayhem : A Book of Photographs	Books	2	10	32	N	N	Get out of the Way	While the photographs here were shocking, they were also exploitative.  Just because they are old does not lessen the impact of photos of murdered children and freaks of nature.  I am not sure what this book wanted to do, but it did not do it well.  It is like reading a book version of the trashy Faces of Death video series.	2000-09-20
US	50762351	R1EDD1KHL012U0	0786884088	7901323	Red Lobster, White Trash, & the Blue Lagoon: Joe Queenan's America	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Joe has been funnier	I usually enjoy Queenan's work, but here the laughs were few and far  between.  Yes, he spoke volumes of truth, but I was often puzzled by the  lack of humor.  What, Joe, no Denny's review?  Also, there were a few  factual errors in the book that made me wonder if Joe had indeed seen a  couple of the films he mentions.	2000-09-18
US	50762351	R1AYJT8F39HWPD	1892041162	181896975	Pictures: Robert Mapplethorpe	Books	2	10	28	N	N	One word: Ouch	You can always debate whether this book is &quot;art&quot; or not, but the  fact is I am worried about what happened to some of the subjects. Helmut?   Are you okay?  I think Mapplethorpe wanted to shock, and he did, but I  found the pictures had too much pain in them to be appreciated.  I was  deadened to what Mapplethorpe wanted to say, if he wanted to say anything  at all.  Ouch, ouch, ouch.	2000-09-18
US	50762351	R7DQDL82M2XCA	0823009815	868748502	Theater: A Crash Course (Crash Course (Watson-Guptill))	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A very funny book	I did not think the history of theater could be so funny.  The author  never condescends, but the information here is presented in a great format  that will make you laugh out loud.  Highly recommended, especially for all  of those theater majors out there.	2000-09-18
US	50762351	RJTO0SFW0H0PE	0679723161	636015448	Lolita	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The Book With Baggage	I hope no one refuses to read this book based on its subject matter.  It is very funny, very real, and very well written.  Forget about the mediocre film version of three years ago and just give this a chance.  You will be  pleasantly surprised.	2000-02-11
US	50762351	R2JX23BDU1WB6Y	0872431983	208746477	Dietrich Bonhoeffer (Modern Spirituality Series)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Easy and thought provoking...	...I have been nervous about Bonhoeffer's work until I picked up this slim volume.   Although it is meant to be read day by day, I finished it in under two hours.  Bonhoeffer was so uplifting, despite his final days, and  this book perfectly takes his thoughts and compresses them into enough  snippets that make you want to read more.  I am a curious layperson who  strongly recommends this little book with big ideas.	2000-01-25
US	50762351	R1QKWS1WQ3JY7J	1578590477	727523240	VideoHound's Horror Show: 999 Hair-Raising, Hellish and Humorous Movies	Books	1	4	11	N	N	Are we looking at the same book?...	The reviews are terrible, the non-horror choices are ridiculous  (Apocalypse Now?, that's the horror of war, not horror), and the cast and  director indices leave something to be desired.  The author will give a  film a great review, then short it in the # of bones rating.  I have to  recommend trimming off the fat before expanding into another edition.	2000-01-24
US	50762351	RUWTMEWTAH1BZ	1578590426	779877251	VideoHound's Golden Movie Retriever 2000	Books	2	4	9	N	N	Quantity does not equal quality...	Over the years I have found some glaring errors in the Retriever's Guide, including wrong names for director, writer, etc.  I don't know if they still do it, but they had Don &quot;The Dragon&quot; Wilson starring in  films from the 1930's under his filmography.  Take it with a grain of  salt...if they made this many mistakes in credits, how do you know the  films were really watched?	2000-01-24
US	50762351	RO25HIGH8WEIR	0451195825	484266792	Leonard Maltin's Movie and Video Guide 1999 (Serial)	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Comprehensive...to a point...	I have been reading Maltin's books for years, but I wish he would include smaller films, and no Made -For-TV flicks.	2000-01-24
US	50762351	R3RK0DT72YOVRI	0684834510	229979548	The Seduction of Hillary Rodham	Books	4	7	16	N	N	Sleazy title, good book...	...No matter what you think of the Clintons, this is not a hack job.  The writing is very balanced, if a little confusing during the Whitewater phase, and Hillary comes off as someone with flaws- her main one being her  husband.  Can't get enough of those Clintons!	2000-01-18
US	50762351	RQZIYX09RYJ13	0671879197	795317754	Inside the White House	Books	3	4	9	N	N	Don't bother me, I'm showering off this book...	...Sleazy?  Yes.  Entertaining?  Yes, to a point.  Many flawed men have served as president, but many of Kessler's sources come off as bitter and possibly unreliable.  I wish some of these bubble headed secretaries  Johnson slept with would come forward...other than that, I think this is  just a nonfiction potboiler that Harold Robbins or Jacqueline Susann would  have written.  Note to future presidents: try to be nice to the help and  just have sex with your wives or husbands, end rumor mongering and run the  country.	2000-01-18
US	50762351	R1BRP2ELU1BDG9	0818403861	251284226	Linda Lovelace: Out of Bondage	Books	5	6	10	N	N	A great continuation	Marchiano ties up loose ends to Ordeal in this excellent followup.  I read Ordeal in one day, then checked this out and read it in six hours.  Please read these books before you decide to rent Deep Throat.  You will never  look at porn the same way again, maybe you will not look at it at all.	1999-12-09
US	50762351	RM1E0PCLUKNAT	0887347517	686691255	Ghosts	Books	3	1	6	N	N	Hey, Whoopi Goldberg isn't in this...	...I found the play interesting, but Oswald's hysterics were melodramatic and bordered on comical.  For a better play about a dysfunctional family, read Tennessee Williams	1999-12-09
US	50762351	R24M0FNIZ3OB2P	0205287573	686774826	Interpersonal Communication: Relating to Others	Books	4	4	10	N	N	Interpersonally...	...I read this book for an undergraduate class and thought it was very good.  One problem-- the final chapter was too brief, they should have split it into three like the previous edition.	1999-12-09
US	50762351	R1GAK465U2YEZ7	0486401596	876414957	Uncle Vanya (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	6	18	N	N	Even the Russians have problems...	...I enjoyed this play immensely, although some of the relations were hard to keep track of.  The characters were strongly written, and everything flowed really well.	1999-12-09
US	50762351	RBOUDST7FGR2W	0024248606	460648799	Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism	Books	3	3	10	N	N	Just the facts, Max	I was impressed with Weber's point about capitalism being an offshoot of Calvinist's trying to please God through hard work, but this is a long and tough read for the layman.	1999-11-23
