US	50762809	R2FMJYP7BK4VQE	0345353730	2944439	Tunnel in the Sky	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Lord-of-the-Flies-esque tale, Heinlein-ized	I don't know if Heinlein had read Lord of the Flies before writing his book, Tunnel in the Sky.  I think it unlikely because they were released within a couple years of each other.  The plot is very similar: a group of boys and girls are stranded with no hope of rescue and have to learn to govern themselves.  In Lord of the Flies, the students are prepubescent (to avoid the \\"hormone\\" issue) while Heinlein tackles it head-on: these are hale and hearty men and women from 16 to 22 who are sent on a survival test (because it's science fiction, on another world).  They are allowed whatever they want on the test, but the best students know their best weapon is between their ears, and go through mainly with knives and other non-perishable material.  However, their \\"warp gate\\" home never materialises at the end of the test, and they have to eke out an existence, assuming catastrophe at home has left them stranded forever. <br /> <br />Overall, I think Heinlein deals with the situation far more elegantly (and realistically!) than Golding. The point of both books is not whether they make it home, but how they adapt to their situation.  They are trapped more irrevocably than the island-dwellers in Lord of the Flies ever could be - a way gate requires an atomic pile to drive it.  The kids set decide to set up a \\"colony\\" and make the best of their situation.  Heinlein allows them to dislike each other, to fight, to marry, and in every way act like real people.  Sure, they still talk in early Heinleinese (they sound like they escaped from the set of Leave it to Beaver), but this was originally conceived as a juvenile.  The first few chapters are the worst for this - once the hero lands in the new world for the start of his test, Heinlein changes tone to a more readable and less saccharine style.  There are also some weird inconsistencies at the beginning, such as the students being unwilling (or unable) to form teams for the duration of the test - wouldn't you be stupid not to form a team? <br /> <br />However, once the story starts going and the kids start organising themselves into a society, Heinlein does a masterful job of protraying a realistic and interesting resolution to the problem.  Alliances shift, people don't like each other but get along because they have to (or die), people pair off in marriage, some are sexist or racist, etc.  Heinlein does tend to philosophise in his books, but it's mercifully absent (for the most part) here - he lets the situation and the characters speak for themselves.  It makes for a fast read (the book is only 200 pages anyways), but an enjoyable one.  It's somewhere at the level of Starship Troopers and Double Star for weight of ideas and level of activity (there is no sex per se and little violence), but probably does not contain the level of insight of these two.  Having said that, it's certainly above the young adult stories like Between Planets (for which I have an irrational love) and Rocket Ship Galileo.	2005-10-08
US	50762809	R3VE0HUTAH0LQY	0132055767	429353449	Science and Its Ways of Knowing	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	As with any compilation, there are highlights and lowlights, but it's always thought-provoking	This book is a compilation of several essays that deal with a variety of science-related topics.  Some of these topics are very general - e.g. the scientific method, the nature of science, etc.  Others are extremely specific - one describes the race to discover the structure of DNA, another a personal recollection of one biologist's first week of university.  There is also a wide range of quality - some essays are too dull to bear, others are so fascinating you wish the author had written more.  They are also written to a variety of levels of scientific literacy - some assume little to no specific knowledge of scientific theories or personalities, while others require a good deal (e.g. the essay by Stephen Hawking assumes you know who he is, what his world-view is, and a working knowledge of big bang theory and relativity). <br /> <br />As a person with an advanced chemistry degree, but no biology and little physics training, I was easily able to follow all the essays in the book.  In fact, the average Grade 12 student who focusses on science (taking, say, chemistry, physics, and biology) should be able to follow anything in the book.  Much of the information is speculative and/or controversial.  There are essays slamming scientific arrogance and others praising science as the greatest human endeavour.  There is an essay ridiculing \\"creation science,\\" comparing it to Marxism and astrology.  There are essays praising the old-fashioned version of the Scientific Method and others that denigrate it as useless. <br /> <br />Overall, the average scientist will find this book interesting and illuminating, especially those essays focussing on philosophy of science and other esoteric issues, in spite of the occasional repetition.  Perhaps a non-scientist would find the essays on specific scientific areas of more interest than I, but I found them fairly dull.  Interestingly, the book seems set up to be used as a text in a philosophy of science class, complete with \\"discussionquestions\\" at the end of each essay.	2005-10-01
US	50762809	R3KEZI781DM4BB	0451207173	504828940	Ruled Britannia	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A lesser Turtledove in scope, but a more enjoyable read because of it	Although Harry Turtledove is noted as being a \\"master of alternate history,\\" many of his books cannot be called alternate history in any realistic sense of the term.  His Guns of the South imagines the Cofederacy being supplied with AK-47's by time-travelling racists.  Uh-huh.  And his two Worldwar series assume aliens (real, honest-to-goodness outer space baddies) invade Earth in the middle of WWII.  Ooooo-kaaaayyyy.....  But here we have a plausible alternate reality world - imagine England 10 years after the Spanish Armada.  Assume the Spanish navy won and managed to land the Duke of Parma's troops in Britain.  Turtledove starts with this premise and paints a convincing picture - forced conversion to Catholicism and death to Protestant heretics, an English Inquisition to hunt said heretics down, and occupation by Spanish and Irish troops, the latter brought in to bolster the Catholic ranks to hold London. <br /> <br />In this world works one William Shakepeare.  He has still written a number of his works we are familiar with - Hamlet, Love's Labour's Lost - in the presence of the Spanish occupation.  Then an underground agent approaches Will with a plan: write a play so incindiary that the crowds watching the play will rise up agaist their oppressors. <br /> <br />From this setup, the story arc of the entire book should be obvious to anyone, if not the ultimate outcome - does Will's play and the insurgents' plot succeed?  I don't mean to denigrate the book at all - just because the plot is obvious doesn't mean that the story isn't enjoyable.  And it is enjoyable.  London in 1600 was full of colourful characters that Turtledove borrows from real life, not least of which is Shakespeare himself and his contemporary playwrite, the homosexual (at a time when it was a capital offense) Christopher Marlowe.  London and its sister communities (Westminster, Southwark, etc.) are beautifully rendered, invoking the bustle and squalor that was everyday life in Elizabethan times. <br /> <br />This book has nowhere near the scope or depth of his serial books.  That's inevitable in a one-off, but the number of major characters in Ruled Britannia is low even so.  Similarly the action is linear and completely centred on Shakespeare.  But it is well-written and engaging.  If Turtledove's verse is not original, but borrowed from a variety of sources (including Marlowe), we must remember that Shakespeare himself did the same thing, and the book is richer for it.  The characters speak in what reads as 17th-century English, but it's easily followed, and the authenticy such language lends to the story is invaluable.	2005-10-01
US	50762809	R712QZ7SD3711	0192802836	649668966	Philosophy of Science: A Very Short Introduction	Books	5	62	65	N	Y	A great little primer to the Philosophy of Science	What this book claims to do, it does well.  It is in the Oxford \\"Very Short Introductions\\" series, and so does not pretend to be anything but a cursory introduction to the field of Philosophy of Science.  Given that caveat, the book is well-written, great fun to read, and is still likely to give us mere \\"laymen\\" in the field something to think about. <br /> <br />Okasha assumes some scientific and philosophical knowledge on the part of the reader.  There is not the space to dedicate explanations of specific scientists or scientific theories.  The book appears to be for scientists rather than philosophers - he clearly goes into more detail describing the philosophical aspects than the scientific ones.  At the same time, he tries not to take sides in the debates of the field, such as the importance of direct observation, the ideas of Kuhn (on scientific revolutions), Popper (on the definition of science), etc.  He also covers the basic scientific issues such as causality, inductive vs. deductive reasoning, and how conflict can arise between science and religion. <br /> <br />I'm not sure if a non-scientist will follow all Okasha's examples.  However, it's probably unlikely that a non-scientist will pick up this book.  This book has helped me immensely in preparing lectures for a module in \\"The Nature of Scientific Enquiry\\" for a general science course we have started this year.  The clarity and conciseness with which the author presents the material makes this a nice little book, well worth the low cost.	2005-09-12
US	50762809	RZOQ8P9B45HHS	0192805096	962201809	Vanity, Vitality, and Virility: The Science behind the Products You Love to Buy	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Some neat facts about consumer products, could have been more scientific	This book is divided into several sections, focussing on related series of compounds.  The first three sections give the book its title - vanity (cosmetics, skin products), vitality (food-related topics), and virility (the biochemical functioning of the male reproductive system, as well as some information on Viagra).  The rest of the chapters focus on how to kill germs, brain chemistry, and polymers of various uses.<br /><br />The book goes into more detail than many other \\"popular chemistry\\" books that I've read.  Unfortunately, it doesn't go into more technical detail - the author seems to want to avoid getting too technical, referring the reader instead to a glossary of technical terms.  This is a good idea but poorly carried out.  For example, he discusses oils, fats, and waxes, but no where does he define the difference between them.  Mostly this does not detract from the enjoyment of the book, because chemists are likely to already know the answer and most lay people will not care for a technical explanation anyway.<br /><br />The topics are interesting and varied.  The commentary is mostly neutral: when chemicals are dangerous he points them out, but mostly he emphasises times when \\"chemicals\\" are unfairly maligned.  For example, toxicity tests are usually performed with concentrations far in excess of what a person would encounter in everyday life.  Statistically insignificant correlations are released to the media without qualification.  If nothing else, this book will alert you to keep an eye out for the purpose behind research.<br /><br />Unfortunately, the book just doesn't read as well as other \\"Chemistry for the Public\\" books.  There are some weird lapses in the narrative where the author is apparently trying to make a joke, but that is just awkward or mildly offensive.  The Joe Schwarcz books are more interesting and better written, if much less detailed.	2005-08-31
US	50762809	RHFGVK6P2WARB	067157812X	136753716	Falling Free (Nebula Award Stories)	Books	3	13	16	N	N	GalacTech is a Harsh Mistress	Leo Graf arrives at GalacTech's top secret research installation to train some people in the art of deep space welding.  He soon discovers that the secret research involves genetically creating a new race of semi-humans with 4 arms (called Quaddies) who can stay in weightless conditions indefinitely (without loss of muscle mass) and who, with their 4 hands, will be extremely efficient deep-space workers.  Unfortunately, not all is as it seems: cost overruns and new technology threaten the existence of the project, and then what happens to the mutants that have been created? <br /> <br />Bujold sets this book in her Vorkosigan universe, but you wouldn't know it - it happens 200 years before the birth of Miles, the hero from that series.  Therefore this is a good entry point into Bujold's universe.  The book is interesting and readable; if it's a little short, it's because Bujold tells her story efficiently and effectively, much like an old-time sci fi writer (Asimov, Clarke, Heinlein).  It's no wonder the Sci Fi Writer's Association voted it best novel - it's old-school style married to modern (genetic engineering) problems. <br /> <br />I bring up Heinlein for another reason.  To say this book's plot and characters are borrowed from Heinlein might be harsh, but to say \\"inspired\\" is too weak.  All Heinlein's favourite characters are there - the hero is an engineer and slight outsider (like the heroes of Farnham's Freehold, The Moon is a Harsh Mistress, and The Door Into Summer), one character might as well be named Jubal Hershaw (from Stranger in a Strange Land), the themes of slavery, political/managerial stupidity, and the clash of old-fashioned know-how vs. high tech are all explored here, in almost exactly the same way as Heinlein has presented them.  The book most closely resembles The Moon is a Harsh Mistress, with it's rebellion of the \\"others\\" (in that case deported criminals, in this case the Quaddies) who lack basic human rights (in that case because they are criminals, in this case because the Quaddies are classified as a non-human species and therefore outside human law) against their corporate overlords (in that case the Lunar Authority, in this case GalacTech).  The main characters are even as 2-dimensional as early Heinlein characters, who exist simply to move the plot forward. <br /> <br />Obviously the theme of colonial rebellion is common in science fiction - but I would never say the Martian rebellions in Robinson's Red Mars or Bova's Moving Mars are copies of Heinlein, because they are not written in a Heinlein style with Heinlein clone characters.  In the case of Bujold, it just feels the same.  It didn't have to - there were ample opportunities to spread out from the rebellion story.  Especially interesting would have been a conflict based on the legality/morality of genetic engineering.  She even introduces a character, VP Apmad, who comes from a planet where any genetic tinkering is rigidly illegal, and who herself had forced abortions because her fetuses were not genetically correct.  But Bujold does nothing with this character and instead focusses on two of the least interesting characters - the engineer (who is likeable but not interesting) and the cartoonish head administrator of the project.  The administrator might as well have had a black mustache to twirl! <br /> <br />In spite of all this, I'm giving the story 3 stars.  In spite of myself, I enjoyed the ride and Bujold does give us enough nifty ideas to keep us going, even if some of the niftiest are left unexplored.  Perhaps a fan of the Vorkosigan saga will find levels of nuance I missed, but to me it's a straightforward, slightly simplistic but enjoyable story.	2005-08-15
US	50762809	R8RWXI6A7L2PG	0140290117	199021721	Borges: Selected Non-Fictions	Books	3	22	39	N	N	Something for everyone and some things for no one	Because Borges lived and worked in Argentina, few have heard of him in the English-speaking world.  Those that have are probably most familiar with his fiction stories.  This book of non-fiction essays shows the vast knowledge and wide variation of interests of Borges.  Therefore, this collection really does have something for everyone.  Unfortunately, there are also many essays that are unreadable, some annoying repititions, and some essays are just plain dull. <br /> <br />So, what does Borges write about?  He covers some metaphysical ground on the nature of time and infinity.  He defines heaven as an infinite library, and then goes into the nature of infinity.  On the more mundane end, he reviews movies and gives capsule biographies of authors - King Kong, Citizen Kane, and more obscure (and not necessarily Hollywood) films.  He writes on contemporary (at the time) politics - Nazi Germany, the curators of the national library, etc.  He gets intensely personal - there is one essay on the progression of his blindness.  But if there is a main theme that permeates these pieces, it's his love of literature in all languages - Spanish, English (old and modern), German.  He has an abiding love of the Greek classics (Homer, Virgil) and great admiration for Joyce, Poe, and Chesterton. <br /> <br />Unfortunately, those of us with a less classical education cannot keep up to everything that Borges says - I, for one, will never have the time to learn ancient Greek! - which makes certain essays difficult.  There are other essays (especially early on) that are simply unintellegible (this may be the fault of the translators, especially since there are times when two or three essays cover the same ground with increasing degrees of murkiness).  But it always happened that a real gem would appear just when I was getting frustrated with a series of uninteresting essays. <br /> <br />On the balance, about a third of the essays are not interesting (or badly translated, or repetitions), a third are interesting if not spectacular, and the final third have at least one moment of sheer brilliance.  It's well worth buying, but it's unlikely you'll read it from cover to cover without taking a break - I took many breaks to read other things, and it took me over 1.5 years to complete the whole book.  But you know what? - on the balance, I like his non-fiction better than his fiction	2005-08-10
US	50762809	RI9EQU7R4H2O	158297103X	219557233	How to Write Science Fiction & Fantasy	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Much of what he says is obvious, but no less important for that	Orson Scott Card is well known to science fiction (the Ender and Worthing sagas) and fantasy (the Alvin Maker saga) readers.  He is also (apparently - I have no first-hand knowledge) a dedicated teacher and mentor to young writers (and young Mormons, for that matter, as he teaches Sunday School).  In this short book he lays out what he sees as the ground rules for writing science fiction and fantasy.  Although I do not agree with his argument that these two genres should be in the same aisle in the bookstore, he convincingly argues that writing these two genres is very similar.<br /><br />He divides his book into several practical areas - world creation, point-of-view, how to handle exposition in an interesting way, etc.  These topics are general for both s.f. and fantasy because the writer needs to convey the rules of the world (be it space travel or magic) in such a way that the reader learns about the world while also enjoying him/herself.  He gives numerous examples from the current (and not-so-current) literature, by writers who should be familiar to readers of the two genres.<br /><br />Unfortunately, much of his advice is obvious to anyone who has thought seriously about writing s.f. or fantasy.  Having said that, however, it's not a bad idea to have these ideas reinforced because they are so basic.  After all, if professional musicians play scales, writers can stand to be reminded of the basic writing rules that Card sets out.  There is a lot of practical advice as well - how to break into the genre (by selling short stories to magazines), when to acquire an agent, where to look to find the addresses to publishing houses, etc.<br /><br />This is a practical guide to the nuts and bolts of the technicalities of writing.  For advice on writing itself, I prefer Stephen King's \\"On Writing\\" - it's more interesting (if esoteric) and more general.  But this book by Card has lots of good information on the genre-specific issues, and also has more practical advice on the profession of writing.ce on the profession of writing.	2005-08-06
US	50762809	R1YEOAICDYUM04	0812517725	878255505	The Great Hunt (The Wheel of Time, Book 2)	Books	3	51	58	N	N	Generally great fun, with some mis-steps	After the skill, fun, and sheer size of the first book in the Wheel of Time series, I eagerly looked forward to the second book.  I won't say I was disappointed - many authors slip a little in a second book in the series - the book is nowhere near the fun, the pace, or the interest of the first book.  The story: the Horn of Valere is stolen by Darkfriends, as is Mat's soul-stealing dagger.  Lord Ingtar takes charge of a group of Shienar's finest in an effort to find and retreive the artifacts.  Our three male heroes - Rand, Perrin, and Mat - go along with the Lancers.  Meanwhile, our two female heroes - Nynaeve and Egwene - accompany the Aes Sedai witch to Tar Valon, the stronghold of the Aes Sedai, to start their training. <br /> <br />So, what is the problem with the book?  Firstly, Jordan felt the need to \\"regress\\" his characters somewhat.  One would think that the boys and girls who had crossed the world, defended the Eye of the World from the evil one, and had survived numerous battles, would have gained in maturity.  And they do so throughout the first book, but their characters are back in their mid-EotW form at the beginning of the second book.  Mat is childishly selfish, Egwene is wide-eyed innocent, Nynaeve is a petulant bully, etc.  In fact, they stay at this stunted level of development through most of this book.  The character of Nynaeve is especially hard to take - she consistently holds to ideas she has seen proven false, she tries to bully everyone into agreeing with her and vows awful revenge when they don't, etc.  And yet all the characters seem to think she's wonderful, including the ageless Warder king-heir who must have better offers from scullery maids than the histrionics Nynaeve consistently offers.  Yet he is supposed to be in love with her?  Did I miss something? <br /> <br />Part of the problem is that, in an attempt to keep his splintered cast alive, he feels the need to touch base with each of the characters too often.  While the meat ofthis book is clearly Rand's pursuit of the Horn of Valere, Jordan will jump back for a chapter here and there following the girls training in Tar Valon. Unfortunately, he doesn't seem to have much reason for any of these interludes except to try and keep the characters in the story.  The book would have been better served if he had followed the Tolkien route of sticking with one group of people for the long haul, then taking the other characters through the same time all at once in later chapters.  It would have cut down on the annoying repetitiveness surrounding the Tar Valon chapters. <br /> <br />Basically, there's too much filler.  When the action is humming along, and the characters are doing something, Jordan's prose shines.  We are in a foreign land but we never feel like outsiders (at least, only as much as the characters) because he does so well in describing events.  Each new ethnic group we meet is fully developed and unique.  Carhein is a wonderfully decadent society, the Seanchan slavers are logical and terrible in the way they've developed their society, and the Whitecloaks are finally given something interesting to do (and are presented not as a spiteful nemesis force but a trans-national entity with their own goals that are simply at odds with Rand's quest).  The last 150 pages are barn-burning (better than anything in Book 1) and leave the reader anxious to lay his hands on the next sequel.  If the book was 200 pages shorter, it would have been a great story.  As it is, it's weighed down and the filler detracts from the rest of the book, but still recommended and it was certainly good enough to convince me to stick with the series into Book 3.	2005-07-30
US	50762809	R2N6W04KBHWUO	0765346753	333405073	Humans: Volume Two of the Neanderthal Parallax	Books	2	17	21	N	N	But .... nothing happens  in this book!	I first have to admit that I read Humans very quickly.  As a sequel to a book I enjoyed, Sawyer's \\"Neanderthals\\", I was looking forward to it.  At first, I was happy - present is Sawyer's sheer readability and his knack for suspense.  The book is crafted in flashback mode, where Ponter, our favourite Neanderthal physicist, describes to his therapist how he's done something terrible (and certainly illegal, in both his own version of Earth and in ours).  What is the crime?  How does it affect our heroes?  Keep reading the book to find out! <br /> <br />Sawyer's universe is well thought-out, including the alternate-reality Neanderthal version of Earth.  He also brings back a number of our old favourites from \\"Neanderthals\\" - Mary the geneticist, Reuben the Jamaican doctor, Louise the human physicist.  He also provides some neat science - he picks a side in the debate over whether Neanderthals were their own species, and convincingly describes the science and its dissemination.  Reading the book is like watching a familiar TV show - we know the characters and their surroundings, and are thrilled to hear more about them. <br /> <br />Unfortunately, nothing really happens!  It's like Sawyer is killing time between the previous book and the next one (which I hope is much better!).  I was reminded of the second Star Wars trilogy - Episode II was nothing but filler to get between Ep. I and III.  Hopefully \\"Hybrids,\\" the third book, continues the pattern established by Star Wars, where Ep. III is the best. <br /> <br />Once I realised nothing was going to happen, little things started to irritate me more.  Things like the social commentary that is relentlessly in favour of the pro-socialist Neanderthal society (and I'm a socialist myself!).  Further: how can a society without war, with a very low (180 million) global population, have technology that is generally superior to our own?  Sawyer's Neanderthals believe in a static universe - how could such an advanced particle science not yet have discovered the Theory of Relativity (which predicts an expanding universe)?  Why doesn't Sawyer know that Canada has not, in fact, always allowed dual citizenships? <br /> <br />So what is the verdict?  This book is filler.  It's generally enjoyable filler - I like the alternate universe for all its implausibility, and I like the characters - but it's filler nonetheless.	2005-07-08
US	50762809	R24SW4T7CT7NGA	1550225774	431250054	Dr. Joe & What You Didn't Know: 177  Fascinating Questions About the Chemistry of Everyday Life	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Dr. Joe has the answers!	The \\"Dr. Joe\\" books are all very readable, interesting, informative, and bring some much-needed scientific rigour to the realm of \\"popular science.\\"  As a chemistry professor at McGill University, one of Canada's most prestigeous schools, Schwarcz brings a couple decades worth of authority to his books.  That's not to say that they are dry and simply factual - they are extremely user friendly and require no science background to understand.  That is the genius of Dr. Joe's books - they are easy to read but never scientifically wrong.<br /><br />This particular book contains a number of short (usually ~1 page long) questions and answers on everything from the origin of the green colour in potato chips to the use of dirt in treating tuberculosis.  With 177 short essays, there is something to interest everyone.  Unfortunately, they are numbered 1-177 and proceed with no other subdivisions.  While this makes it easy to read in short bursts (it's ideal for city bus rides, for example), the book lacks cohesion.  There are some interrelated questions that are separated in the book, when links between them would help the explanation of each observation.  What he loses in coherence, however, he makes back up in variety.<br /><br />In short, this is a fun book for anyone interested in how the physical world works.  It also contains a number of ideas for science fair projects, for example, and so could become a valuable reference in addition to an interesting read.	2005-06-28
US	50762809	R2JI3K1TKBVGBF	0380789035	337033298	American Gods	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A modern tale of gods walking the Earth	The premise of Neil Gaiman's book is not particularly original: at least 2 original series Trek episodes (\\"Who Mourns for Adonis?\\" and \\"Squire of Gothos\\") are basically the same idea.  To wit: the gods are real, and they walk the Earth.  They grow powerful when people worship them, weaken when indifference sets in, and die when people forget them.  However, to my great delight, Gaiman has created a novel unlike any other - part travelogue, part suspense-thriller, and part action-adventure.  There is also an ample sampling of humour.<br /><br />Perhaps the most original part of the book is the selection of gods Gaiman chooses.  Some will be known to most readers - Odin, Easter, Jaquel (the Egyptian god with the head of a Jackel), and Kali (made famous for my generation by Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom). But many more were completely unknown to me.  I was reminded of the quote, \\"stealing from one person is plaigerism, stealing from everyone is genius.\\"  Gaiman selects a few gods from many different pantheons and throws them together on a quest - to defend themselves from the hostile takeover by the new gods of Television, the Internet, etc.<br /><br />Such a synopsis makes the novel sound silly, but somehow Gaiman makes it work and lends it the gravity it deserves.  After all, if it's one thing that the old gods lack, it's a sense of humour.  We are taken through the trip by Shadow, who early on throws his lot in with Odin.  His wife has been killed in a car accident, but apparently the gold coin (given to him by a leprechaun) he drops on her grave brings her back in some sort of undead state.  More than once she bails Shadow out, then disappears to take a job at a gas station because, after all, even the undead need to pay the rent!<br /><br />The interest and fun of the story is in the writing.  It is fascinating to see gods unknown to me, but some of his choices I have to question.  After all, wouldn't more people know Zeus than Odin, and if so, why wouldn't Zeus be the head guy instead?  Such details are only puzzling after the fact.  While reading the book, it's very enjoyable and I would recommend it to anyone.<br /><br />P.S. The book won the Hugo, even though it is patently not a science fiction story.uldn't Zeus be the head guy instead?  Such details are only puzzling after the fact.  While reading the book, it's very enjoyable and I would recommend it to anyone. <br /> <br />P.S. The book won the Hugo, even though it is patently not a science fiction story.	2005-06-16
US	50762809	RQ9E204T0V8CZ	0812511816	456114433	The Eye of the World (The Wheel of Time, Book 1)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A rousing start to an epic fantasy series	Way back when I first became aware of the Wheel of Time series, I decided to pass until the series was concluded so I could read them all at once.  Well, the series is up to 9 hefty volumes, with the promise of at least one more, so I can wait no longer.  This series has become the gold standard of modern fantasy, in the tradition of the Lord of the Rings, which was first continued in the Sword of Shanara series.  For comparison, this book far surpasses the first Shanara book. <br /> <br />Late one night a group of Trollocs attacks an outlying village that hasn't seen any kind of violence for decades.  They are beaten off by two strangers visiting the town - an Aes Sedai, wielder of the One Source, and her Warder companion.  The fact that the stranger is an Aes Sedai is almost as alarming as the fact that Trollocs have suddenly appeared in such a remote and quiet edge of the realm.  Why are they there?  What do they want? <br /> <br />Three teenage boys discover that they were specifically targeted - the Dark One, long imprisoned by Aes Sedai magic, is increasingly able to influence his traditional Trolloc allies.  There is something about the 3 boys that the Dark One wants, and the Aes Sedai must protect them and take them to the order's fortified city, on the other side of the realm. <br /> <br />Thus starts the epic journey, wherein we meet many memorable characters, have many exciting adventures, and become immersed in the fantasy world that Jordan has created.  He has obviously been influenced by Tolkien, but how could he not be?  Tolkien's strength was that he brought together standard mythology and reworked it into his world, which Jordan does here as well.  There are some alarming similarities - the Warder Lan is distressingly similar to Strider, the evil Halfmen and Drakhar are basically Nazghul, etc.  Jordan even uses the Tolkien-esque cross-continent journey as a way to ease the readers into the mythology and geography of the planet. <br /> <br />However,if not in originality, Jordan surpasses Tolkien in many ways.  His prose is faster-paced, the action is more exciting, the descriptions are concise without being turgid.  It's basically a far more interesting book to read than The Fellowship of the Ring, at least the first time.  That's not to say the world is less detailed - Jordan has created a fine mix of the down-to-earth (shepherds, blacksmiths, innkeepers) and high-powered (the Aes Sedai).  Similarly, he makes better use of females, of magic (Gandalf's source of magic and abilities are never really clear in the LotR), etc. <br /> <br />If this book has a failing, it's that there are a few too many obstacles.  Some of the battles merge together and/or seem somewhat arbitrary.  50 pages shorter and this would have been a perfect opening to the series.  As it is, it more than adequately whets the appetite and compells the reader to pick up the next book in the series.	2005-06-03
US	50762809	R3NMHF9IOS4AZS	1585422207	469421642	Napoleon's Buttons: How 17 Molecules Changed History	Books	4	20	20	N	N	A nice book to give a "feel" for the importance of chemistry	There is no question that chemistry, perhaps most of all the sciences, has a bad public image.  People automatically assume chemistry is to blame for most of the perceived evils of the world - the ozone layer holes, overuse of pesticides, carcinogenic food and fuel additives, smog, etc.  The authors of this fun little book successfully argue that it's not the chemistry, per se, that is bad but the (over)use of chemistry.  They have culled several molecules from the pages of history (in fact there are many more than just the 17 advertised in the title, it's really more like 17 families of molecules) and tell the stories behind them.  Each chapter covers their discovery and/or first synthesis, the way they were first used by society, and how they are now seen.  They rightfully focus on older molecules, since many new ones have not been around long enough to allow analysis of their long-term impact. <br /> <br />They do not shy away from the dark side of chemistry - Bayer, who invented Aspirin, also manufactured poison gas for use by Imperial Germany in WWI.  Wonder drugs like DDT and CFC's are now vilified as being major environmental problems, but few now remember that DDT was almost solely responsible for the irradication of malaria (by killing the mosquito carriers) in Europe and North America.  So the health benefit far outweighs any current negative human health issues.  It's this balance that makes the book both interesting and important.  There is a lot of scientific illiteracy out there.  Hopefully lots of people will get this book and learn to give chemistry a fair chance. <br /> <br />There is a lot of chemistry in the book.  However, I think it's well-enough explained that the lay reader will be able to easily follow along.  Chemists will find many of the explanations to be glossed for a general audience (and, in fact, there are a few places that are just plain erroneous), but if the intention is to use this as a teaching resource for neat tidbits or project ideas, this is not a fatal flaw.  Similarly, , a negative but not fatal problem is the choice of compounds.  Sure, the authors make a spirited pitch for each of their choices, but I can think of many chemicals that are far more important than the molecules they include - what about DNA, for instance, or uranium hexafluoride, or even bronze (that has a whole Age named after it)? <br /> <br />Any book that attempts to increase scientific literacy is valuable, and this one especially so because it presents the chemistry as a neutral thing that mankind can use for good or evil (but usually both simultaneously).  Not only that, it is presented in a conversational and easy-to-read fashion.  So pick up a copy - I guarantee you'll learn something new and interesting that you didn't know before!	2005-05-07
US	50762809	R1XLLFB135BQ06	0765345005	813218222	Hominids: Volume One of The Neanderthal Parallax	Books	4	8	11	N	N	An interesting idea, a fun and easy read	It's easy to see why Robert Sawyer won the Hugo award (finally!) for this novel - it is emminently readable, has some neat ideas, and even some nifty scientific extrapolation.  What is more difficult to understand is the apparent strong negative emotion (based on the number of 1-star reviews) the book has generated amongst some who have read it. <br /> <br />The basic physics of the story revolves around the infinite universes theory of quantum mechanics - every time a decision is made (not only conscious, but even of photons refracting), all possible outcomes occur, each one in a different universe.  In one of these alternate universes, Homo sapiens has been wiped out and Homo neanderthalis has become the dominant intellegent species.  The Neanderthals are working on a quantum computer, and in the process of their experiments, one of the workers gets teleported (?) into our universe.  Obviously, his dissapearance in his own universe is as problematic as his appearance in our own. <br /> <br />Sawyer deftly switches back and forth between the two universes - the stranded Neanderthal trying to understand what's going on around him, and his colleague trying to figure out what happened to him (and being accused of his murder).  This obviously sets the stage for discussion of a variety of topics including quantum mechanics, the philosophical differences between the Neanderthals and Humans, etc. <br /> <br />Here is where the meat of Sawyer's books lie - the philosophical implications of the world(s) he's created.  Refreshingly, for a science fiction writer, he does not shy away from religion - obviously the existence of a parallel universe would have profound theological implications.  Unfortunately, he does not fully develop this idea (although maybe it shows up again in one of the sequels).  Another unfortunate aspect is his development of a peaceful, stable, and very small Neanderthal culture.  It's exceedingly hard to believe that a planet whose entire population isonly 180 million could have acheived such a high level of scientific advancement, especially one where war (the ultimate technological driving force) is unknown.  It makes Sawyer's social commentary implausible. <br /> <br />However, the book ranks very high in terms of enjoyment.  His multicultural cast (including a black Jamaican, a Quebecoise, and a Sikh), his attention to detail, and his low-key approach to the narrative give the book a pacing that makes it easy to read straight through in a single sitting.  It's a refreshing change of pace from the lurid action-thrillers that many people seem to have expected based on the plot of the story.	2005-04-12
US	50762809	R27U1GOD8M7B8M	0691009759	892021301	Made to Measure: New Materials for the 21st Century	Books	4	4	5	N	N	An overview of the materials world at the atomic level	Although materials science is a fast-evolving discipline, and even though this book was written 10 years ago, it is still an important and useful contribution.  Philip Ball has taken a diverse and interdisciplinary science and created a book that is both readable, interesting, and informative, no matter what your level of scientific literacy. <br /> <br />In the interest of full disclosure, I am a materials scientist, so I may not be the best person to comment on the book's readability to the layman.  There is some technical vocabulary.  It is always explained, but someone without a clear idea of the basic building blocks of matter (atoms, molecules, electrons, etc.) a reader will find this book a heavy slog.  However, there is nothing in the book above the scientific literacy level of high-school chemistry and physics.  Anything more advanced is explained in a conversational and coherent manner, without ever resorting to distorting approximations that riddle newspaper accounts of science. <br /> <br />What makes this book especially valuable is that the breadth of topics is so large that even a practicing materials scientist will learn a lot from reading the book.  There are discussions of inorganic and biological polymers, mineral films, magnetism, imaging, etc.  Even better, especially for the average reader, is the constant referal to actual devices (both current technology and speculation about future technology).  This is not an esoteric book - Ball includes issues such as solar power and its feasibility (it's still more expensive to generate solar lectricity than oil-fired or hydro).  There is also extensive discussions on such diverse issues as wear in machines, the operation of computer magnetic hard drives, and medical prosthetic devices such as artificial hearts.   <br /> <br />This is not a quick read - there is some technical jargon and the text is quite dense.  However, there are many diagrams and the writing is quite accessible, so I would not hesitate to recommend this book as a wide-reaching and honest overview of the broadly amorphous field called materials science.	2005-04-10
US	50762809	RUCQ9H2WYS1NE	0312863551	562507215	The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress	Books	3	8	14	N	N	Misses as often as it hits, but always thought-provoking	The problem with Heinlein's novels, especially those written in his glory years, is that they appear quiantly old-fashioned and even (sometimes) simplistic to the modern reader.  This is, of course, a result of the fact that science took direction and speed that no science fiction author could foresee.  But because Heinlein is such a technical writer, it's more pervasive in his work.  Having said that, you have to admire the sheer audacity of a novel like \\"The Moon is a Harsh Mistress,\\" which discusses, among other things, the advantages of dictators over duly elected presidents, interplanetary war, and the economics of hunger. <br /> <br />The story: The Moon is a penal colony where convicts are transported.  Because of the difference in gravity between the Moon and Earth, this is a practical life sentence.  By the same token, the convicts' children are also trapped on the Moon.  One such child has grown up to be a standard Heinlein jack-of-all trades named Manuel.  He happens to be the best computer trouble-shooter on the Moon, so when the main climate and control computer becomes sentient, Manuel is the first to discover it.  Man and computer then find themselves immersed in the politics of the Free Luna groups, where the rapidly maturing sentient machine (now calling himself Mike) takes a leadership role in planning the overthrow of the hated Lunar Authority.  The Authority is a monopoly-holding, Earth-controlled entity that controls all aspects of Lunar life (air and water, all trade, all security, enactment and enforcement of laws, etc.)  When two of the Authority's policemen rape and murder a native Moon resident, the revolution is joined. <br /> <br />Heinlein makes so many bold predictions in his novels that it's no wonder some of them come true.  For example, he correctly identifies India and China as becoming the most powerful countries in the world.  He also gives us vigorous political debate on the nature of democracy, government, the free market, and tyranny.  He also sets up an ingenious weapon system that takes advantage of the huge gravity-well difference between the Moon and Earth. <br /> <br />Unfortunately, there are a lot of misses as well.  I don't mind them so much if there are natural reasons for them (i.e. depending on scientific facts that weren't known at the time).  Unfortunately, there are a number of annoying and unecessary scientific gaffes that detract from my enjoyment of the novel.  The most annoying is his use of statistics.  Mike keeps a running tally of the odds on winning the revolution, but for some reason the odds keep getting worse as the revolution progresses.  This doesn't make any sense because, by definition, the longer something is successful, the higher the probability that the ultimate outcome will be reached (because they have been continuously eliminating potential pitfalls as time has progessed).  Almost as annoying is the constant overestimation of the difficulties of computerised calculations.  Here's a computer with enough capacity to become sentient, yet he has difficulty plotting the tragectory of what are essentially artificial meteorites.  My trusty scientific calculator has more than enough computing power for that simple job!  It's not that Heinlein couldn't foresee the advent of the integrated circuit, it's that he apparently believes a 3-mass (one of which is negligibly small) motion problem is a heavy-duty computer calculation.  <br /> <br />There are other events that caused me to shake my head in dismay.  The very idea that a few of 1/6th gravity-raised kids could beat up a recently-arrived Earthman is ludicrous.  The Earthman would be able to snap those kids' bones like twigs.  Another example - an essentially unarmed mob of Moon people (a total of 3 guns between them) somehow destroy an entire platoon of assault-rifle armed Earth soldiers.  Say what?  If modern history has taught anything, it's that professional Western soldiers employing modern weapons will obliterate untrained mobs.  A modern example is the American intervention in Somalia (the \\"Black Hawk Down\\" story, where the U.S. Marines inflicted 500:1 casualty ratios).  Heinlein obviously wouldn't know about that, but he would have known about Cortes and British colonial wars where regular soldiers easily demolished and obliterated any irregular opponents who tried to stand toe-to-toe and fight. <br /> <br />But maybe I'm being too harsh.  Heinlein's strength has always been his political and philosophical musing, pushing readers to think and challenge their own assumptions.  In this book he espouses communism and the idea that government is too important to be left to chance (i.e. - if elections are necessary, they should be rigged).  It would have been very interesting to know how Heinlein would have incorporated the recent revolutions in Ukraine and Georgia - would they have altered his view on what is required for a successful revolution?  Therefore, although I only gave the book 3 stars, I still recommend it.  It is not the best Heinlein I have read, but the controversial and thought-provoking narrative are likely to enlighten and enrage simultaneously.  And that's what we read Heinlein for, isn't it?	2005-02-15
US	50762809	R19HCYYKJ5EF82	0256036454	670578296	War	Books	5	20	22	N	N	The most comprehensive analysis of war I've read	In the mid-80's, the Canadian Broadcasting Corp. (CBC) presented a documentary on the nature of war.  Hosted by Gwynne Dyer, my recollection (I was barely a teen at the time) is that it was an interesting and in-depth analysis on the nature of war.  Dyer then proceeded to write a companion book, which has been out of print for some years.  Now, there is this brand-new, updated version.  Dyer has woven the events of the last 20 years into the fabric of the narrative, instead of tacking on an extra chapter at the end - thus it reads like a new book, not a money-grabbing enhancement of an old one.  It has been out in Canada for a few months, and will make it's U.S. (re)debut in the spring. <br /> <br />In terms of timeline, this is the most comprehensive book on the roots of, and motivations for, war.  Dyer uses archaeological evidence and combines it with analyses on the behaviours of our primate cousins (chimps, baboons, etc.) to build a description of the origin of organised society and the roots of warfare.  He then proceeds through the ages, from Babylon and Egypt to the Cold War and the two U.S.-Iraq wars. In this way, he builds a complex but ultimately useful and compelling description of warfare as a human activity.  He makes many of the same conclusions as John Keegan and others, but the sheer depth of the analysis is more complex than anything else out there, to my knowledge. <br /> <br />Granted, much of the material in this book has been covered before.  For example, is war a natural condition of human societies?  Is it inevitable that man will fight his peers?  With his trademark wit and seemingly contradictory combination of optimism and sarcasm, Dyer convincingly builds his thesis.  The prose is entertaining to read, and the liberal sprinkling of photographic illustrations makes this book eminently readable. <br /> <br />First, the pessimistic side: Humans (and most apes, for that matter) really DO mean to kill each other.  However, the average person'schance to die by a violent death has remained mainly steady over the millenia.  Certainly, the chances of dying in this century's World Wars was high, but those wars only took up 10% of the century's time.  Thus, as battles increased in size and lethality, societies fought less and less frequently, so it all balanced out. <br /> <br />However, he is quite optimistic that humans really are moving in a pacifistic direction.  With the advent of nuclear weapons, the next big war will be the last one.  His chapters describing the Cold War might be controversial (especially to the U.S. Right) as he maintains Reagan's defense policy was basically invented by Jimmy Carter, and the Soviet Union was already done before Reagan came to power.  Whatever your political leanings, though, he lucidly describes the training and mindset of the professionals tasked with maintaining and, if necessary, launching the ICBMs that WWIII would have been fought with. <br /> <br />That's not to say that Dyer is a pacifist per se.  He has great respect for people in uniform, and those that follow his syndicated column will know he was in favour of Gulf War I and the destruction of the Taliban by the U.S.-led coalition.  He does maintain, however, that modern warfare has turned into an all-or-nothing game where the loser is wiped out (at least the government, and often entire ethnic groups).  This is not a sustainable situation in the nuclear era, and so we are in great danger.  However, he points out that natural human tendency is to equal rights and democracy.  As modern communications and universal literacy make it feasible, nations will naturally move towards more equitable solutions.  Thus, in the final analysis, war may eventually become obsolete after all.  As he says in the book, it will be good riddance.	2005-02-06
US	50762809	R1IBJFM2VMB867	0312854064	481360910	The Falling Woman	Books	2	6	11	N	N	A promising idea that bogs down in melodrama	Elizabeth Butler is a successful archaeologist and a riveting lecturer and author.  Her secret - she can see ghosts of those native peoples that lived in her digs in the distant past.  Is she crazy?  She questions her own sanity at times, trying to take her own life and abandoning her family (including her young daughter) because she is not sane by corporate America's standards.  She is much more at home in the dirt and bugs of the Yucatan peninsula, but her most recent dig is different - one of the ghosts starts speaking to her.  The ghost is a priestess of the Mayan moon goddess and as such has blood on her hands - she has led human sacrifice rites and has herself performed the coup de grace in her ceremonies.  It is clear that this ghost wants a sacrifice of Elizabeth, but of what type? <br /> <br />Enter Elizabeth's daughter Diane, fresh off a messy break-up and the death of her father, her sole care-giver growing up.  Diane arrives at the dig fearing that she is going crazy - she too has the family gift for seeing the shadows, but it's not well developed.  Will Diane be the sacrifice required of the ancient priestess?  Will Diane go crazy before she accepts her gift?  These are the questions that the novel asks, and we are carried along as the dig progresses, simultaneously with the power of the priestess over Elizabeth. <br /> <br />This novel won the Nebula award, granted by science fiction writers, as the best book of the year.  The book is clearly not science fiction, but then, neither was Zahn's \\"This Immortal,\\" a book I thoroughly enjoyed.  No, the problem with this book is that it has such a promising setup, but then bogs down in melodrama.  Since it's written in the first person (alternately Elizabeth and Diane), the entire novel rests on the sincerity and believability of the main 2 characters.  Unfortunately, I never really believed in the characters (especially Elizabeth), so they never earned their right to act in bizarre and self-distructive ways.Similarly, the book treats luck as if it is a tangible, physical force like gravity, but the author uses it a cause for otherwise implausible events. <br /> <br />Finally, there were some scientific and/or philosophical incongruities.  For example, for someone who so thoroughly understands the Mayan calendar, it's irritating that she apparently doesn't understand that its origin comes from the fact that the Earth's period of revolution about the sun is not exactly 365 days (it's slightly longer).  Likewise, she unwisely groups Mayan and Christian religions together as both being based on human sacrifice when there seems to me to be a fundamental difference.  One (divine) sacrifice as a symbol is different that the Mayan idea of lives as divine finance (the more sacrifices, the more power the god will gain).  Likewise, consider Abraham's experience when God told him NOT to sacrifice his son.  This point wouldn't be so irritating if it was developed, but it's not, like some other philosophical teasers the author introduces and then neglects. <br /> <br />Basically, my enjoyment of the book decreased the more of it I read.  I grew more and more impatient with the characters and the plotline.  A promising idea eventually degenerated into melodrama, when such a good idea deserves better.	2005-01-16
US	50762809	R3DP98O9ZLI3FK	0670030791	710534464	Winston Churchill	Books	4	28	28	N	N	Short but sweet - as only Keegan could write it	John Keegan has a flair for bringing order from apparent chaos, for finding unifying themes through events separated vastly in time.  Thus, he is a good choice to write this short biography of Churchill.  One might legitimately ask, \\"How can you condense the life of Churchill into such a slim (200 pages) volume?\\"  The answer is here for everyone to see. <br /> <br />Keegan gives a good flavour for the man, touching on his important speeches, his bullying of subordinates, his painting, his variable health.  He leaves out what is not important in understanding the man: his membership in the bricklayers' guild is not mentioned, for example.  Clearly, Keegan the military historian is mostly interested in Churchill's wartime leadership - in both World Wars.  He also makes sure to point out some of Churchill's other policy issues - his support of the working man (Churchill is often, wrongly, believed to be anti-working class) is the most interesting because it's often lost in the detail of larger tomes. <br /> <br />It's ironic that Churchill himself was incapable of writing a history like this - his \\"biography\\" of Marlborough was several volumes long.  Can the life of a man like Churchill be condensed into 200 pages?  Probably not, but Keegan's attempt is very readable and enjoyable, and is recommended even to those that have read heftier biographies.  The exercise of working within space constraints forces the writer to get to the core of the subject, and this is what Keegan does in this biography.	2005-01-06
US	50762809	RUABKTDF47QYI	0124001513	810047718	Chemistry Connections, Second Edition: The Chemical Basis of Everyday Phenomena (Complementary Science)	Books	4	14	15	N	N	A good resource for high-school or liberal arts course	There are a lot of books out there explaining the chemistry of everyday things.  For sheer readability, I recommend Prof. Joe Schwarcz's series of books, which are readily available on Amazon.  The shortcoming of Dr. Joe's books, and most books for the general public, is that they aren't really meant to be a resource for teachers of chemistry.  They only include the most basic of explanations that the layman can understand. <br /> <br />Thus, the need for a book like \\"Chemistry Connections.\\"  It contains the same \\"basic-level\\" explanation for a layperson, but also has a second explanation for each subject giving details on a more scientifically rigorous scale.  Then there's a section of references (often reputable websites, vetted by the authors) for people that want to get even more in depth. <br /> <br />The way the explanations are written, and the choice of topics, makes this a resource best suited to the high-school chemistry classroom, or to a \\"liberal arts\\" (chemistry for non-chemists) university course.  The explanations tend to be a little thin for a true freshman-level calculus-based chemistry course.  That's not to say that a thoughtful professor can't make great use of this book for any level course - the choices of chemical questions are varied and thoughtful, making it a great reference when planning lessons. <br /> <br />The book is not perfect.  It does not have the zing or flow of many other books for sheer readability - it's best used as a resource to give ideas for presentations and lesson examples for high school or liberal arts courses.  There are some typos - there is a pentavalent organic carbon (horror of horrors!) in one diagram, for example.  Finally, some of the detailed explanations tend to wander off-topic, for example, explaining how polymers are synthesised in a section on polymer structure.  While interesting, it was not relevant to the particular question at hand, and likely to be confusing for the student.	2005-01-03
US	50762809	R233DQ3VH8JMVC	1568523688	244426828	Enemy at the Gates: The Battle for Stalingrad	Books	3	15	21	N	N	Mostly personal remembrances of the memorable battle	Winston Churchill lumps together the Battles of El Alamein and Stalingrad as his two turning points of WWII - both were decisive losses (the first 2) for the Wehrmacht.  With all due respect to the British and Germans that fought over the desert in Egypt, however, El Alamein does not compare to the scope and importance of the Battle of Stalingrad, especially on the morale of both the Russian and German forces.  Having said that, Stalingrad is best seen as the culmination of the real battle - the rebuilding of the Red Army (after Stalin's near-suicidal decision to liquidate its leadership) and the mobilisation of the Soviet Union's vast industrial postential. <br /> <br />The German 6th Army was fighting its way across the Steppes of Russia with the objective of (a) protecting the left flank of the German invasion into the oil-rich Caucuses and (b) inflicting damage on the Volga basin - both an industrial and agricultural region.  The Soviets chose to make a stand at Stalingrad on the banks of the Volga in an attempt to stall the invasion long enough to gather sufficient force to trap and destroy the armies located deep in Russia and the end of tenuous supply lines.  This book tells the story, from both sides, of the drawn-out, severe street-fighting that took place as first the Germans fought their way into the city, then had to defend it as the Red Army fought to retake it. <br /> <br />There are a number of things to like about this book.  Both the generals and the private soldiers are well-represented in the cast of characters that Craig focusses on.  We see Paulus, Chuikov, Hitler, and Stalin as they direct the motions of the armies under their commands.  But we also see privates and lieutentants as they run from cover to cover with sniper bullets and artillery rounds raining down on them.  The book quickly cuts between little vignettes of action, giving a frantic (and therefore realistic) pace to the narrative.  Craig gives a good feel for the developing encirclement and desperation of the trapped soldiers.  He describes in vivid (some would say nauseating) detail the nature of the conditions as the German army slipped from a well-oiled machine to a shell-shocked group of soldiers starving to death. <br /> <br />Unfortunately, as mentioned by other reviewers, there is little by way of historical context.  There is not much to describe why the 6th Army arrived at Stalingrad at the end of a very long and treacherous supply route.  Without explanation of the context, it would seem that Hitler sent them off to die for no good reason, rather than explaining that the same tactics that led to this disaster were universally successful for the previous 3 years - in Poland, Norway, Greece, France, Libya, and the Soviet Union itself.  This is what caused the paralysis at OKW - the German high command - after a string of unparalleled victories, they had no idea how to deal with defeat.  Likewise, the Germans come off as sympathetic and pathetic victims, when they were the ones that invaded (in a surprise attack), slaughtered millions of innocent people, and sent Red Army personnel off to die on forced marches to slave-labour camps behind the lines.  Without this context, it's easy to think of the Soviets as sub-human killer robots under the thumbs of the NKVD political police. <br /> <br />It's easy to see why this happens in a book written in 1973, when it was fashionable to dismiss the Soviet Union as totalitarian and \\"evil\\" (which it undoubtedly was) and to admire the fighting quality of the German troops.  This forgets the fact that the German soldiers were also pawns (often all too willing) of the totalitarian and evil Nazi government.  Likewise, with access to a greater number of German survivors' stories, the author could be forgiven for slipping into a pro-German slant.  Even so, it's a bit grating to see such a bias in a supposedly unbiased book. <br /> <br />To sum up, this is definitely a readable and interesting book.  It's a bit hard to find - Beevor's book on the same battle is now considered to be a better account - but there is a lot here, especially for those that like first-hand personal accounts.  Strategic considerations are thin, however, and so lowers the quality of the book in my eyes, especially as they lend an air of pro-German bias to the account.	2004-12-26
US	50762809	R3HYLWRKQYEDBP	0553279718	662268278	The Uplift War (The Uplift Saga, Book 3)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A worthy entry in the Earthclan/Uplift series	The Uplift War is called the 3rd book in the Uplift saga, but it is not a sequel to the 2nd book, Startide Rising (S.R.).  It is more of a consequence of the events of S.R.  Therefore, don't look for answers to the nagging questions left behind at the end of the previous book - we never find out what becomes of the Earthship Streaker, nor any information about what it found (although the ancient fleet the dolphins discovered is really a MacGuffin), nor the fates of those crewmembers left behind or the presentients they found. <br /> <br />So what does happen in this book?  Well, the avian Gubru clan hatch a plan to blockade and invade a Terran colony world in an effort to force the Earthlings to hand over the information discovered by the Streaker.  The colony world is populated by Humans and Chimpanzees - mankind's latest uplift project.  As is typical of Brin, there are a lot of things going on, some known by certain characters, other things by other characters, but no one knows everything that is happening, and the play-off of different levels of ignorance provides the action and suspense of the book.  Besides the human characters, the cast includes two ambassadors of alien origin, the invaders, and different castes of chimps.  Brin deftly weaves them together in an intricate (but never hard to follow) plot.  It is a testament to his skill that each of the extraterrestrial species are clearly different from each other, and that we never get the simian characters mixed up. <br /> <br />Like the dolphins in S.R., the chimps and gorillas are the stars of the book.  Sure, they are speaking, fighting with advanced weaponry, and plotting, but they do so in an obviously simian way.  We immidiately recognise these animals as advanced versions of the apes we know from the zoo and Jane Goodall's stories in National Geographic. <br /> <br />However... maybe it's the familiarity we have with apes, or the straightforward storytelling, but this book doesn't quite approach theinspired perfection of Startide Rising.  That's not to say it isn't enjoyable - in fact, from beginning to end, it's consistently more readable and enjoyable than S.R.  But in the end, it's not as satisfying.  I would still highly recommend it as a fine example of speculative yet scientifically logical science fiction.	2004-12-11
US	50762809	R1T2ODMJ63XSGK	076790818X	997649583	A Short History of Nearly Everything	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Some science, some biography, and some fun	Bill Bryson is well-known as a travel writer.  His books are witty and easy to read, while giving a good \\"feel\\" for the area he's writing about.  He does not get into the nuts and bolts of how expensive a certain city's hotels are, nor the best places to eat or rent a car.  Likewise, when he turns his attention to science, there is a lot of clever writing without a lot of detail on what it really means to do science, usually without the details that a more scienctific writer would bring. <br /> <br />This is not a criticism.  It is clear that Bryson wants to give the big picture while telling fun stories.  The most interesting stories, to him and probably to the non-scientific reader, are about the people involved - their disagreements, foibles, etc.  As such, the book is greatly enlivened.  I'm not concerned that some of the stories are unverifiable and quite probably wrong - a little literary license is expected in this sort of book. <br /> <br />Likewise, Bryson gives a good feel for the breadth of knowledge and how far we have to go.  There is a common perception that science \\"knows all\\", or at least could figure it out in a few years if people put their minds to it.  Bryson handily dispells that idea, pointing out repeatedly how one answer just leads to more questions, and that some questions are simply unanswerable by their nature (no one will ever see the age of dinosaurs, for example).  I will also point out that the book is not for the faint of heart - for example, Bryson cheerfully points out we're \\"long overdue\\" for an asteroid strike on the scale of the one that wiped out the dinosaurs.  How much warning will we have of such an impact?  Probably none, unless you happen to see the asteroid for the 5 seconds it's streaking through the atmosphere on its way down. <br /> <br />Unfortunately, there are points where Bryson tends to let his descriptions tail off.  He gives the impression that scientists are a breed apart and that most science is beyond the kenof the average person.  Quite the opposite is true, of course, as science popularisers such as David Suzuki and David Attenborough amply demonstrate.  Notwithstanding this criticism, however, the book is recommeded for those that are interested in science but don't know where to start - this will give you the big picture and even throw in a little practical knowledge to boot.	2004-12-07
US	50762809	R2JL4UODFLEXIU	0439358078	667539744	Harry Potter And The Order Of The Phoenix	Books	4	2	5	N	N	The darkest book yet - not quite as good as "Goblet of Fire"	First, a quick summary of the plot: This is Harry Potter's (and friends') 5th year at Hogwart's, an English public school for witches and wizards.  Normally, the 5th year is devoted to the OWL exams (standardised cumulative tests) that determine which NEWTs (A-levels) the students will be able to take in their 6th and 7th years.  That these tests are stressful is obvious.  Added to this stress for Harry is the fact that Lord Voldemort has returned - a fact he is reminded of by renewed pain in his Voldemort-given scar and visions of death that are linked to the Dark Lord's doings.  Unfortunately, much of the wizarding community, led by the Daily Prophet newspaper, doesn't believe him.  In fact, Headmaster Dumbledore is sacked as chair of the wizard council for supporting Harry.  Things go from bad to worse when the new Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher is a spy for the Ministry of Magic, looking for any reason to sack Dumbledore (and Hagrid and Trelawney) from Hogwart's. <br /> <br />The Harry Potter books have graduated from \\"kids'\\" books to the standard level of fantasy fare (suitable for, say, 13 and up - there's no bad language or sex, but there is death and torture).  Each book has been darker and scarier than the one previous, and Book 5 - the Order of the Phoenix, is no exception.  Many will like the hard-edged and gloomy tone.  After all, how else is a 15-year old going to react to the world, other than through rebellion, a sense of superiority to his stodgy and (to him) stupid elders, and a healthy dose of depression.  That Joanne Rowling understands the adolescent boy/man so well is a pleasant surprise. <br /> <br />What isn't so pleasant is that Harry Potter is no longer likeable.  Sure, it may be realistic, but this is a fantasy novel - the hero should at least be likeable.  Vast stretches of the story pass where it's more interesting and enjoyable to follow the side plots, and wish Harry would get out of the way!  This isn't a big problem, since thestory's pacing is fast, sure, and exciting.  The action is well-written, and the supporting characters are fully-formed and so the book is a fully developed universe.  Again, the notable exception is Malfoy, Harry's foil, who gets less and less intesting as the books progress - he really needs to develop into a 3-dimensional character before the readers can take hime seriously as a threat to Harry. <br /> <br />Overall, it's still a very enjoyable book, and it took me no time at all to read it once I started.  However, it's not quite as good as the 4th book, and so I'm giving it 4 stars.	2004-11-26
US	50762809	R1QL7Q6ZSJOORR	0771577206	994760991	The Mother of All Pregnancy Books: An All-Canadian Guide to Conception, Birth and Everything in Between	Books	4	3	3	N	N	General information yet topically comprehensive	Unsurprisingly, reviews by men on pregnancy books are few.  However, I did read this book, so thought I would share my thoughts with any other male readers out there! <br /> <br />This book is very comprehensive in that it covers all aspects of the baby-making process, from conception through to the first weeks at home with the baby.  It also doesn't sugar-coat the process, which is useful for the un-pregnant partner to know!  There is ample space given to potential health problems and what to do about them.  Likewise, warning signs that things are not proceeding properly and lists of risk factors for certain conditions (e.g. pre-eclampsia, gestational diabetes, etc.).  The author has written books on the subject of coping with miscarriage and other pregnancy-related traumas, and so includes some of the unfortunate possibilities as well as the good stuff. <br /> <br />The topics are broad and comprehensive.  However, there's really very little detail on any given section - the author has chosen to give a good general overview of the whole process, and includes many useful tips like how much you're likely to spend on baby clothes in the first year.  There is also a lot of information on changes to the mother's body and what she should expect (e.g. how much her breasts will swell, what aches and pains are likely to be related with a normal pregnancy, etc.).  However, there is no \\"developmental biology\\" - no pictures of the size of the fetus at certain ages, no chronology of the development of organs, etc.  As a scientist, I found the book to be a little vague and/or \\"touchy-feely\\" at times. <br /> <br />Overall, though, it's a good introduction about what to expect and what potential problems to watch out for.  It's written entirely to the mother - she is refered to as \\"you\\" throughout the book, whereas the father is always \\"he\\".  That's not to say that the father won't find the book useful - it'll certainly help in understanding the process of pregnancy.	2004-11-15
US	50762809	RFNC859RQI9JS	0029117062	240230225	How We Know What Isn't So: The Fallibility of Human Reason in Everyday Life	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Spurious reasoning beware!	In this book, How We Know What Isn't So, Thomas Gilovich takes us through the facts behind spurious reasoning, anecdotal evidence, and incomplete analyses.  In the current climate of fad diets, herbal remedies, and other pseudoscientific claims, it is an important book, laying bare the faulty reasoning that can lead to errors in judgement or to falling for some con artist's story. <br /> <br />The primary focus of the book is an analysis of how the human mind tends to bring order from randomness.  For example, early chapters deal with random events, and Gilovich points out how seemingly ordered random events can be.  For example, when flipping a coin, you should expect to see 4 or 5 heads (or tails) in a row at some point when flipping the coin 100 times.  This seems obvious, but he then moves to \\"real life\\" examples to show how such randomness can lead to a belief in hot streaks when gambling, for example. <br /> <br />Similarly, he tackles and explains studies that clearly show the importance of anecdotal evidence - we'll take information at face value if we hear it from someone we trust, even if we don't know where that person got the info.  Likewise, people tend to more closely scrutinise evidence that contradicts their beliefs in an attempt to find a fault with the evidence.  However, they are also likely to \\"mindlessly\\" accept anything that seems to support a belief.  This is human nature, of course, but it means that it's human nature to not evaluate evidence objectively, and that is what leads to spurious reasoning and belief in concepts that have no scientific evidence (the efficacy of many herbal medicines, belief in ESP, etc.) <br /> <br />In a year with a particularly acrimonious election, this book seems doubly important.  With the mudslinging and misrepresentations taking place in both the Kerry and the Bush camps, it's tough for the average person to sort it all out.  Gilovich's book points the way to how to ask the right questions on the way to finding the truth, which is something everyone needs  to be able to do in a democracy.	2004-10-28
US	50762809	R2XKM70QZ30YKX	0061015725	245555180	Prey	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Thrilling? Unquestionably!	In the heirarchy of Crichton books, I would place this in the second tier, behind my favourite from this author (Jurassic Park, Great Train Robbery, and Timeline).  Crichton has, for me, always been an uneven writer, with duds like Sphere and the Lost World alternating with the gems. <br /> <br />The story is basically a monster fable, and superficially appears to be like Jurassic Park.  It is not as detailed, there are fewer characters, and the technology is not as believable (or as well explained).  The monster: swarms of nanometre-sized machines that are programmed with a swarm intellegence.  Due to an engineering error in the building in which they are being manufactured, vast quantities of these nanomachines are released into the Nevada desert.  Out there they start to evolve and develop to the point where they are attacking living creatures (including humans) to drag back to their lair as raw materials for producing more machines. <br /> <br />Because they are a swarm of very small particles, they are virtually impossible to destroy - you need a weapon that can fry/irradiate/magnetise all the particles in a particular swarm simultaneously.  This is the connudrum that our hero, Jack, finds himself in.  He's a software programming consultant specialising in modelling pack hunting.  His wife is a top VP at the nanomachine company.  As in all of Crichton's books, most people have their own hidden agendas and secrets that can turn the reader's whole perception of what's happening upside down. <br /> <br />The book is written in the first person, which means we know the main character survives until the end.  However, because he is an outsider brought in to solve a problem he didn't create, he is in the dark as to what's going on.  Not only is this a technological thriller (how do the nanomachines work and can this knowledge help defeat them?) but a psychological one (why does Ricky keep lying to Jack?  Is Jack's wife having an affair?  Have Ricky and/or Julia allied with the nanomachines to advance some hidden agenda?).  This only works because of the 1st-person telling of the story. <br /> <br />At the same time, this is a very fast read, due to Crichton's writing style.  He uses \\"quick cuts\\" (to borrow a film term) to generate a hyperactivity in the action - short sentences, short paragraphs, and each chapter is subdivided into small subsections, usually less that 2 pages long.  And the story is well-crafted, the science believable (mostly), and the characters unsually varied for Crichton. <br /> <br />As other reviewers have commented, the ending leaves a little to be desired.  That some plot points are totally unresolved (and unabashedly so) at the end is fine - if the narrator doesn't know something, there's no reason to think he should become miraculously omniscient at the end.  However, it does feel at times that Crichton laid one too many twists at the end, and one plot point (the question of whether Julia is having an affair) is concluded in such a way that it leaves more questions than answers.  Better for the author to have left it open than to give a seemingly contradictory explanation. <br /> <br />At any rate, of Crichton's books, this rates about a #4 overall (around Airframe on the enjoyment scale).  Not as well-crafted as Jurassic Park, the book it most closely resembles, but a very enjoyable and thrilling read.	2004-10-13
US	50762809	R35ZAQ94I3J3YM	0312890788	431768961	The Big Time	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Very dated but contains some thought-provoking ideas	The term, \\"The Big Time,\\" is slang (in the reality of the eponymous book) for beings that live in 4 dimensions - the three geometrical and time.  They can move freely forward and backwards in time.  Two factions are vying for control of this universe, and they recruit and send soldiers through time and space to try to change the past to affect the future.  Because this is a big war, change is constant, and people living in 4-dimensional reality find memories and realities slipping away and reforming. <br /> <br />If this sounds confusing, the novel isn't really about the Change War, it's about an R&R station supposedly safely out of the front lines.  Like all good science fiction, Lieber weaves his universe around the main story, trying not to get bogged down in exposition.  Unfortunately, he doesn't quite succeed (probably because the book is so short - only 130 pages!), certainly not as well as Zelazny or Brin, for example.  Similarly, many of the ideas seem a little dated - the book is over 50 years old, after all.  The other most notable problem is the weakness and general unlikability of the main character - a female entertainer whose job is to show \\"the boys\\" a good time when they come in from the front. <br /> <br />However, the book isn't really supposed to be about the story so much as the idea of living in 4-dimensions and the possibilities it invokes, like having a Nazi and a Roman legionaire in the same unit (these are the two best characters in the book).  Likewise, the ending is esoteric, but well-crafted and very satisfying.  It's a very quick read - but at 130 pages, it's not really worth the price tag for the casual sci fi reader.  It did win the Hugo, though, so it's certainly worth reading.	2004-10-06
US	50762809	R35CR9GXRHOA7Z	0465057128	122798525	The Pity Of War: Explaining World War I	Books	3	18	24	N	N	Some interesting theories, but slow-moving and inconclusive	Niall Ferguson's \\"The Pity of War\\" is an investigation of the causes of WWI.  Not only that, it goes deeper and questions not only why it started, but why it continued, and even why it ended in the collapse of the German army on the Western Front (as opposed to the British or French, or why the collapse didn't happen earlier). <br /> <br />There are a number of things to like about the book.  First and foremost, he successfully demolishes some deeply held beliefs that really don't make sense anyways.  For example: he argues that, all things considered, life in the trenches was not as bad as post-war analysis tends to believe.  He successfully convinced me that, shell-shock notwithstanding, the amount of food, wine, and prostitutes available at the front could compensate for the horrors the men faced in the front line.  He also invokes the politically incorrect axiom that men like to fight - there is nothing like the threat of immenent death to sharpen the senses and thrill the body. <br /> <br />Likewise: he successfully convinced me that Germany was the nation most responsible for the war.  In my readings, I had come to my own conclusion to blame Russia who came to the aid of Serbia after Serbia had sponsored a terrorist organisation's attack on Austria-Hungary (similar to the modern-day Taliban).  Austria-Hungary was well in her rights to revenge herself on Serbia.  However, through an exhaustive economic analysis, Ferguson shows that Imperial Germany was losing the arms race (and that the government knew it), and so turned what was essentially a local Balkan conflict into a World War.  This is in sharp contrast to the numerous other conflicts that fizzled out in the previous 30 years. <br /> <br />Unfortunately, there are some flaws.  First and foremost is readability - there are long passages of economic data, industrial analysis, etc. that are not overly exciting.  This is compounded by the fact that he puts in a number of handy graphs, but then proceeds to explain all the graphed data in text form as well - it's repetitious.  Secondly, he overly concentrates on Britain and Germany - it's almost as if France didn't exist or that they had no grievances with Germany, e.g. over Alsace and Lorraine.  Thirdly, he never really articulates a reason for the German collapse after the failure of the offensive of 1917. <br /> <br />I'm glad I read the book.  I may even refer to it from time to time.  I certainly will not forget some of Ferguson's arguments and analyses.  However, this is not a book I would recommend to others without hesitation.  Scholars of WWI will find a lot of interest in here - especially since it is well-referenced.  The lay reader (like me) may find it dull and overly detailed.	2004-10-01
US	50762809	RP4UV2WZCIOLS	1740590767	246388876	Lonely Planet Finland	Books	3	6	10	N	N	Not as inspiring as the cover would indicate!	To put this review in context - my wife and I travelled to Sweden and Finland this summer.  She has family in both countries who we visited and stayed with.  Much of the time was spent in rural Finland (Kuusamo and region).  Our home is Thunder Bay, which is a small pulp-and-paper city (100 000) in rural Ontario.    The Lonely Planet guides are well-known (at least among my travelling friends) as including a little bit of everything - culture, entertainment, restaurants, and places to stay.  Because Finland is a young and sparsely-populated country, it turns out that there aren't a lot of castles or museums or cathedrals to see, and those that are there are not as impressive (generally) as their counterparts in Sweden.  No, the reason to go to Finland, according to this guide, is the nature, parks, wildlife, etc.    Normally this kind of thing is very inspiring, and the book makes it sound interesting.  However, this is exactly the kind of thing we can do at home - provincial parks, downhill and cross-country skiing, and moose crossing the road are all part of our normal existence.  Why would we go to Finland to experience these things?  This is the nature of the country, of course, which the editors of the Lonely Planet series cannot control.  However, reading the book did not give me any particular desire to go to Finland had I not been planning to go anyways.  It seems like the editors may as well have summed it up as \\"It's a great place to live, although a little dull to visit.\\"  In reality, the country is much more interesting than the book would have led me to believe.    Having badmouthed the general aspects, I do want to praise the section on Helsinki.  Here the guidebook shines and we toured the city and the sites based on the well-documented walking/biking tour.  It is a fantastic way to view the city and made the purchase cost of the book well worthwhile.  We saw much more of the city than we would otherwise have been able to.  Likewise, as visitors to Scandanavia will likely have noticed, there is a dearth of mid-range eating places (pubs, \\"family restaurants\\", etc.) in Scandanavian cities, so we relied on this book to find a place to eat, which again was exactly as described.  In that restaurant, we were planning our next move when in walked another couple with the same guidebook, sitting at the table next to us.  Obviously they were finding the book useful as well!	2004-08-29
US	50762809	R1N0K5LWEYY1JX	0553282522	780286146	The Healer's War	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The cold, hard face of war stripped away	I'm too young to remember the Vietnam war, nor am I in the medical profession, so I am not going to comment on the veracity of the medicine and the war action.  It is enough for me that the author served as a nurse in Vietnam during the war there.  The story initially feels autobiographical - the main character, Kitty, is a nurse in the long-term orthopedics ward in an army hospital.  The twist: a Vietnamese holy man gives Kitty an amulet that allows her to see the \\"aura\\" of people, revealing their inner thoughts - how they are hurt (mentally and physically), their true moods.  In addition, by pouring her \\"life force\\" into patients, or by channelling others, she can effect remarkable healing on her patients. <br /> <br />The amulet is a simple plot device that Scarborough uses to delve into the psyche of the various characters in the book, and to humanise the terrible events that occur around her heroine.  It also allows us to suspend disbelief that a city girl from the U.S. could survive a chopper crash into a jungle full of VC and U.S. forces trying to kill each other.  Scarborough does not hold back - she gives us the full force of the savagery that made the Vietnam war so different from other conflicts, and does so in a fairly non-judgemental way (i.e. both sides are committing the atrocities).   <br /> <br />This is not a \\"feel-good\\" book by any means.  It is not science fiction either, in spite of the fact that the Science Fiction Writers' Association awarded it the Nebula in 1989.  It is an good book, though, and I recommend it.	2004-08-25
US	50762809	R3MZ0AVIFRR7DK	0471490350	202601774	Enigma: The Battle for the Code	Books	4	96	97	N	N	A blow-by-blow account	The Ultra secret was kept for a long time after WWII. Recently declassified, it was the Allied code name for the Enigma ciphering system used by the Germans to coordinate U-boat attacks, to gather weather reports and intellegence, etc. This book is interesting in that the author gives ample space to the sailors and intellegence officers that gathered hard data, often from sinking U-boats, instead of focussing exclusively on the technical work performed at Bletchley Park. The result is an action-packed account that speeds through the material, while giving the reader a glimpse at the personalities and actions of the people responsible for solving the Enigma. <br />  <br /> The book is arranged roughly chronologically, but Sebag-Montefiore divides his chapters into subject areas that span months at a time. This makes for a better flow. Therefore, the book backtracks from time-to-time, but it is never confusing, due to the skill of the author (and his editor). Oft-neglected episodes are included, much to the benefit of the book - because the U.S. and Britain were the two largest Allied powers, many books overlook contributions by other nations. Not so with this book - the Polish codebreakers that originally duplicated the Enigma and broke the peacetime ciphers are given more space than the celebrated Alan Turing. Likewise, the Canadian contribution to convoy duty (and therefore U-boat hunting and intellegence gathering from sinking U-boats) is given its rightful share of space. <br />  <br /> The author wisely keeps the pace moving with events and doesn't allow the narrative to bog down in technical descriptions of the deciphering procedures. These procedures are gathered as appendices at the end of the book. The appendices are not great - they are descriptive without going into the mathematical detail, and therefore come across as &quot;hand-waving.&quot; Luckily this difficulty does not detract from the main part of the book, so is not a fatal flaw, but those lookingfor a technical explanation should look elsewhere.	2004-08-03
US	50762809	R356ZF8W7BX2LT	0061053104	387426853	The Terminal Experiment	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Thought-provoking and enjoyable; maybe too crowded, though	Robert Sawyer is nothing if not an &quot;intellectual&quot; - his stories, novels, and even his interviews on the talk-show circuit are not standard and run-of-the-mill.  He likes to explore the Big Questions of the universe and in The Terminal Experiment, he tackles one of his favourites - exploration of the devine by supplying evidence of a creator.  In addition, he throws in a healthy dose of artificial intellegence, a murder mystery, and some neat medical equipment.<br />The main character, Peter Hobson, has family problems at home - he's going through a rocky point in his marriage.  At the same time, he discovers evidence (using a super-sensitive EEG) of a &quot;coherent electromagnetic pulse&quot; leaving the brain at the time of death.  Naturally, theologians call this evidence for a human soul, which gets Hobson thinking: what is the afterlife like?  With the help of a friend (and researcher into A.I.), he generates 3 virtual copies of himself.  These copies live in cyberspace, two of which are modified to simulate immortal life and life after death.<br />When two men turn up dead, both of whom Hobson had something against, Hobson quickly determines that one of his computerised simulacra must have done the killing.  But which one?  And can it be stopped?<br />This book won a Nebula award, and it's easy to see why.  It's an exciting adventure, and there are some neat ideas in it.  It's also charmingly dated in places - for example, in the year 2011, Sawyer has the Commenwealth of Independent States still existing, and Carl Sagan shows up on a talk show.  Unfortunately, as other reviewers have mentioned, there is the problem of too many things happening at once.  Is this a story about the existence of the soul?  Is it a story about computer-generated personalities committing murder?  Sawyer never seems to sort out what the important storyline is, and the reader is left feeling that he had  two good ideas for short stories, then combined them to make a novel.But it's great fun and a good read, so I can forgive such issues.	2004-07-06
US	50762809	R2D33CNUE20JLZ	0679746641	606133912	Fields of Battle: The Wars for North America	Books	2	9	16	N	N	The least of Keegan's efforts	Of the many books by John Keegan that I have read, this is by far the least enjoyable. Two stars is probably a harsh assessment, but there are a few points that annoy me greatly about the book, and overshadows the insight that is also present in significant quantities.<br />First, the positive. As usual, Keegan looks for parallels and contrasts in defining historical peoples, places, or battles. In this book he analyses the geography of North America and describes 4 wars on its soil in terms of the limitations and opportunities offered by key strategic points. The wars include those between English and French about Quebec, the American Revolution, the Civil War's Penninsular campaign, and the wars of extermination of the Native Peoples in the Plains territories (including Custer's Last Stand). He convincingly argues that the twin keys to North America are the St. Lawrence/Lake Champlain/Hudson River corridor and the extended Mississippi watershed (which are connected through portages/canals). Of course, such a dry description does not do justice to Keegan's fine writing style that brings alive the geography, the society, and the battles themselves.<br />And yet.... All the fine analysis is for naught. Keegan does normally inject a certain amount of his personal opinion and direct observation of battlefields and locations that he's personally visited. However, in this book, it is taken to an extreme. The first 65 (!) pages are a meandering, self-indulgent account of vacations he's taken in the U.S. and Canada, ostensibly to describe the geography, but redundently because he rehashes it all in the chapters dealing with the specific wars. Worse still, it's dull. The next few chapters perk up considerably, especially that describing the Civil War. However, it's all ruined again by his unbelievable defense of the genocide commited by the U.S. (and Britain/Canada, for that matter, but he focusses on the U.S. in this book) on their native populations. He seems to justify his stance by calling the Natives \\"selfish\\" for wanting to maintain their way of life and low population density. My jaw dropped in disbelief when I read it! That's like justifying Hitler's invasion of Poland (and his attempted genocide of its people) because Germany needed \\"liebensraum.\\"<br />So, unfortunately, I cannot endorse this book, in spite of its many good points. Pick up Keegan's Face of Battle or Mask of Command for examples of his penetrating insight. Steer clear of this one (and under its original title, \\"Warpaths: Fields of Battle in Canada and America,\\" which is a weird title since Canada is in America....).	2004-07-03
US	50762809	R25YWKFM0EQNWX	0679730826	306881683	A History of Warfare	Books	4	39	41	N	N	How warfare has been practised through the centuries	Like the best of Keegan's books, A History of Warfare starts with an overarching theme (Clausewitz's assertion that war is politics by another means) and then proceeds to frame his description of warfare from pre-history to present day.  Those that see this book merely as a defutation of Clausewitz ignore the meat of the book, which is a smooth and lucid description of (past and current) methods and philosophy of warmaking.<br />Most interesting is probably the notion that the western (originally Greco-Roman) ideal of decisive battle is an abberation.  In fact, natural (primitive) war involves many safeguards and rituals to prevent high casualties.  That is not to say that conquest is not possible in primitive war - Aztecs, Monguls, and Turks all managed to set themselves up as permanent rulers in conquered lands.  However, casualties are light and there is no shame in retreat in this type of warfare.  Keegan then proceeds over ground well-travelled by military historians - how the evolution of European power has led to Western military hegemony since the 17th century.  For my money, Hanson's Carnage and Culture (from which Keegan quotes) is a more interesting and provocative read, but Keegan is convincing and fresh in his slant on the same topic.<br />The only negative aspect of the book, for me, is the theme - that of debunking Clausewitzian theory.  It seems to me that, in fact, Keegan has proven (not disproven, as he claims) that Clausewitz's basic assertion, &quot;War is politics by other means&quot; is true.  It feels like Keegan is bending the definitions of war and politics to serve his philosophy, and that a Clausewitz apologist could fudge definitions of war and politics to re-prove Clausewitz's assertions.  For example, is not the Aztec method of warfare - emphasising the capture of prisoners to be later used in ritual sacrifice - entirely consistent with advancing their theological political system, which requires pacifying their gods with such sacrifices?  Granted, Keegan does use many more examples and details to show that warfare is only Clausewitzian if the people prosecuting the war (i.e. WWI) believe it.  Natural warfare is not, and warfare in the age of nuclear weapons cannot be if human civilisation is to survive.	2004-07-03
US	50762809	R2CRNXBNGEFQG4	0811724336	951594971	The Winter War: The Soviet Attack on Finland, 1939-1940 (Stackpole Military History Series)	Books	3	13	14	N	N	A little known war that could have drastically changed WWII	There are a number of books available on the Winter War between Finland and the Soviet Union, which was fought for a few months from Dec '39 to March '40.  Even so, the war is little known in the west, coming as it did just after the Nazi/Soviet partition of Poland, during the Sitzkrieg, and just before the Nazi invasions of Norway and Denmark.  Little Finland held off a Soviet onslaught for several months before superior numbers and equipment finally wore the Finnish defenders out.  Meanwhile, the world debated whether to aid the Finns, occupied as they were with Nazi aggressions.<br />The book is written anecdotally, giving a flavour of the nature of the fighting in the war, rather than a strategic overview of causes and a tactical description of the campaign.  This is a wise move as the Winter War was tactically simple - there were no fancy maneuvers, it was basically soldier-to-soldier fighting in the dark and cold, where the elements were at least as dangerous as the enemy.  That's not to say that statistics and battles are not described, but they are not the important or interesting part of the book.  <br />The authors are Finnish and the story is told almost exclusively from the Finnish point of view.  Originally written in 1973, they would not have had access to Soviet records.  They do give a feel for the Soviet soldier's lot, however, based on interviews with POW's.  I am satisfied that, with the information available at the time, the facts are accurate - the Finns DID wipe out entire divisions (with the help of the cold and snow), the Soviets DID curl up into defensive positions and lose the initiative, and the guerrilla tactics used by the Finns (much like those used in current-day Iraq and in Vietnam) rubbed the invaders' nerves raw and sapped morale.  Most interesting, however, is the analysis of the political situation from the Finnish point-of-view: would acceptance of foreign aid, for example, actually extend the war and/or hamper negotiations during the peace talks?<br />Unfortunately, the story is incomplete.  At 200 pages, there's ample room to include the Continuation War (after Finland formally allied itself with Nazi Germany and tried to reclaim their lost territory).  Also, the writing style is almost juvenile, compared to the smooth and precise prose of Keegan, Churchill, etc.  English is probably not the first language of at least one of the authors.  Therefore, the book is interesting and useful, as far as it goes, but it is too short and not written well enough to be called a classic.	2004-06-25
US	50762809	R1A4IZQYXNU95B	0968588107	104219988	Mastering Finnish	Books	3	22	25	N	N	Dry and academic, but well-designed	This is the text that is used in Lakehead University's Introductory Finnish (language) course.  In the full-year course, we covered 10 chapters out of the book (it has something like 16 chapters in total), but also covered additional material prepared by the professor.  I was a student in the course, and offer the following review from that point of view.<br />The good points: it is arranged conversationally.  That is, each chapter introduces some new grammatical structure, but chapters are mostly divided by subject content - e.g. &quot;A Visit to the Doctor&quot;, &quot;Travel by Train and Bus&quot;, etc.  I anticipate this to be incredibly useful for trips to Finland.  As a class, we went to the local Finnish restaurant as a &quot;Field Trip&quot;, and the Finnish-speaking waitress easily made herself understood to us, and we to her.  I'm sure our grammer was simplistic, but the point of an introductory course is conveyance of information, not composition of epic poetry.<br />Another important point - the book avoids colloquial &quot;Finnglish&quot;, which is apparently creeping into the language, especially in young people in the large cities (who are exposed to American/British TV, films, and music).  The vocabulary is strictly &quot;real&quot; Finnish.<br />Unfortunately, there are a number of bad points.  First and foremost is the lack of a universal glossary/word list - extremely frustrating!.  Readers will require a Finnish-English dictionary.  Secondly, the author uses grammatical terms that are not commonly known, at least to those that haven't taken a university-level course in English grammer or Latin.  He throws around terms like &quot;nominative&quot;, &quot;genative&quot;, etc., without really defining what these terms are.<br />As a textbook, I think this is a fairly good one.  As a stand-alone, teach yourself type book, I would be seriously hesitant about recommending it.  Make sure you brush up on your grammatical terms beforehand, and get an English-Finnish dictionary, too.	2004-04-23
US	50762809	R22AQ6N1UVSQUM	055327418X	610668604	Startide Rising (The Uplift Saga, Book 2)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Keeps getting better and better as it progresses	David Brin has invented an interesting universe in which to set his &quot;Uplift&quot; (also known as &quot;Earthclan&quot;) series.  It is a crowded universe - sort of Star Wars-esque in its level of weird and wonderful inhabitants.  The variety arises from a tradition of Uplift, wherein a sentient species genetically modifies another species so it can attain sentience as well.  The uplifted species' debt: 100,000 years of indentured servitude!  The added wrinkle: every species that is currently uplifting others was itself uplifted in the distant past.  This is an ancient universe where innovation consists solely of hunting through the galactic library looking for forgotten information.<br />Humanity enters this universe with two distinct differences: an abhorance of slavery, and a skill at innovation that is alarming to the pompous patron races of the galaxy.  Mankind has uplifted two species: dolphins and chimps.  They have set them free as equals (instead of demanding the 100,000 years of slavery), further appalling the elder races.  However, all of this information is background - it's a testament to Brin's skill that he weaves all this background into the story (along with the introduction of numerous extraterrestrial races) without specifically devoting long passages to it.<br />The main plot - a dolphin-crewed ship (along with a few human overseers) has discovered a derelict fleet.  As they try to head back to Earth with the info, they are ambushed by many E.T.'s intent on stealing their find.  The ship seeks refuge on a water-covered planet as the crew tries to make repairs and escape their pursuers (who battle each other in space overhead).  This is just the start of the adventure, however, and Brin's great skill in this book is to take a very complex universe, and keep adding more and more layers of complexity - the refuge planet is not all it seems, for example, nor are all the dolpihin crewmembers, many of whom start to crack under the pressure.<br />It's hard to describe why this book is so good without going into technical details.  Therefore, I'll just say it's a great science fiction achievement, and well-deserving of all the awards it's received.	2004-04-06
US	50762809	R1MTJL8P6NK5KR	0765340054	582223695	Shadow Puppets (The Shadow Series)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Highest marks in the most important category: enjoyment!	It seems to me that Roger Ebert is on to something - he will give a film a high rating if he enjoyed it, even if he cannot intellectually justify it.  I find that the Shadow series of Orson Scott Card to be in this category.  While reading the books, I've enjoyed them immensely, racing throught them at breakneck speed.  It is only upon reflection afterwards that I notice that the Shadow subseries lacks the scope and ambition of the Books 1-4 of the Ender series.  Card's inventiveness shines in the earlier books - 2 extraordinary extraterrestrial races (three if you count Jane), a new religion, speculation on the nature of the soul, etc.  What do we get in Shadow Puppets?  A continuation of the Achille vs. Bean battle and unification of the Muslim world.<br />The general story picks up where we left off in Shadow of the Hedgemon - Peter is &quot;ruling&quot; as Hedgemon (with about as much power as the general secretary of the U.N.).  China has invaded and occupied India and Southest Asia.  Achille is rescued from captivity in China by Peter, causing Bean and Petra to flee from the Hedgemony and seek a life on the lam, while trying to determine if they can have children who will not be afflicted with  Bean's genetic mutation.  Meanwhile, world opinion comes around to fear of the rapidly expanding China, setting the stage for a world war.<br />Card saves his best writing for the commando raids and military actions both strategic and tactical.  The detail is less than, say, Tom Clancy, but very interesting and well-paced.  Unfortunately, characterisations are sacrificed.  When I consider Speaker for the Dead with its detailed and varied characters, I am disappointed with the development of Peter, Bean, and Petra.  We do get to meet the parental Wiggins, and that is a special treat of this book - I wish we could have had more of them.<br />This review sounds negative, so let me reiterate: the criticisms I have of the book were only noticed on reflection.  While in the midst of the story, I thoroughly enjoyed it, and recommend it.  If you have not read the previous books in the series, you will not be able to start here - go back and read at least Ender's Game, Ender's Shadow, and Shadow of the Hedgemon.  Incidentally, for my money, Speaker for the Dead is the jewel of the Ender series, and one of my top 5 favourite books of all time.	2004-03-27
US	50762809	R342EH0WFKG4N8	0140298479	787771217	Bridget Jones: The Edge of Reason: A Novel	Books	3	4	6	N	N	More of the same, but strangely less enjoyable than original	People have compared this story to Jane Austin's Persuasion, which I haven't read (yet).  Personally, I was struck by the similarity to \\"The Importance of Being Earnest.\\"  Bridget and friends are like the diarists in that play - nothing is real until it has been shared with the diary and with phone calls to friends.  No wonder Mark Darcy feels he's being disected!<br />The basic plot - Bridget and Mark, who got together just at the end of Bridget Jones's Diary, hit a crisis a few weeks into their relationship (one of those easily resolvable movie-type crises that could be solved in two minutes, but then how would you fill up the rest of the time?).  They split up, and it's a foregone conclusion they will reunite, but the fun is in the journey.  This book seems to be every bit as fun as a the first, and yet I was left, at the end, feeling like the journey wasn't as interesting.  It's partly because of the unbelievable absurdity of the breakup, but more because the characters are just that much more over-the-top.  The book has moved from the sublime to the rediculous, as it were.  <br />That's not to say I don't recommend the book for anyone that liked the first one.  It is fun, a quick read, and will have you chuckling if not laughing out loud.  Both sexes will enjoy it - if Bridget is a carricature of the modern professional woman, the men are certainly the male equivalents (if less developed).  So have a seat by the pool (or heat lamp, if it's winter) and turn off your brain for a few hours.	2004-03-14
US	50762809	R1VAOM9BKZUZGK	0142002801	435949952	The Fall of Berlin 1945	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Interesting and well-written	Anthony Beevor has ventured into WWII territory before, with his well-regarded Stalingrad and his equally well-written but virtually unknown Crete: the Battle and the Resistance.  Both of these previous books are about battles that hung in the balance - each side was very evenly matched and the outcome could have gone either way.  This lent a spark of dramatic tension to the events.  The same cannot be said of The Fall of Berlin - only the most deluded Nazi with an irrational trust in Der Fuhrer did not know the final outcome of the war.  In fact, as Churchill has pointed out, the war was decided at Statlingrad and El Alemain two years earlier.  Therefore, the Battle of Berlin is no more than a footnote - Stalin's need for a decisive symbol to prove to his people that he was the greatest leader in the world, slaying the Nazi beast in its lair.<br />However, this does not minimise the suffering and violence with which the battle was fought, and that is what Beevor focusses on in this book.  The day-to-day suffering of the German population is well-documented (even over-documented) with chilling detail.  Fully half of all German women were raped by the invaders, many multiple times as new units passed through.  Men were transported to Siberia or executed on the spot.  All livestock and produce destroyed or sent back to Russia.  That the Russian troops simply duplicated the level of brutality that the Wehrmacht and SS inflicted on occupied Soviet territory just makes the scale of depravity larger.  Most alarming is the fate of liberated prisoners - shipped off for \\"re-education\\" by the NKVD political divisions, lest Nazi propoganda infect the Soviet Union. <br />Of course, Beevor documents the military aspects as well - towns taken, divisions and their commanders, surrenders and retreats.  He expects a certain level of \\"lay\\" knowledge of WWII, but for the most part, the casual reader will easily follow the action because the author is very good at keeping the identityof all the generals, party officials, and political masters clear.  Maps are conveniently gathered at the front of the book, although there are too many of them and they are not well labelled for the most part.<br />Finally, there is the political history that is sprinkled through the pages.  Beevor is especially critical of the American leaders - Eisenhauer, Roosevelt, Marshall, and Truman - for being naive and allowing Stalin and Molotov to bully and deceive them.  From this dynamic, Beevor implies, descended the nature of the Cold War.<br />Therefore, all-in-all, it is an enteresting book covering all aspects of the Battle for Berlin.  We can forgive Beevor's repetativeness and the lack of suspense in the outcome because the writing is clear and well-paced.	2004-03-07
US	50762809	R2N83JNLQF9CNG	0425191184	17508097	Red Rabbit (Tom Clancy)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Unfairly maligned, but certainly sub-par Clancy	As the Amazon review of this book states, we, the readers, know what happens long before the characters.  The story: a Russian communications clerk for the KGB learns of a plot to assassinate the Pope.  He feels he has a moral obligation to warn the west to prevent the murder of an innocent man, and we follow his attempt to contact the CIA and defect with his information.<br />Anyone old enough to remember 1981 has a vivid memory of the attempt on the Pope's life, and how it turns out.  However, most of the reviews of the book given on this website miss the point: this book is not about the assassination attempt, it is about the working of intellegence services (CIA, MI-5, and KGB) and how they try to sort out the wheat from the chaff and get reliable information.<br />The good points:<BR>After the Bear and the Dragon, it's a tremendous relief to be back in &quot;real life&quot;.  So much baggage has built up in the Jack Ryan series (e.g., a war with Japan, a nuclear terrorist attack, a biological terrorist attack) that it's now a fantasy world with little basis in reality.  By going back in time, Clancy has chosen an interesting and true event and seemlessly incorporated his fictional characters into reality.  Most importantly: it's a page-turner.  I'm sure the average reader will find much of interest to keep them reading until they finish the book.<br />Unfortunately, there are many bad points:<BR>As stated by many others, this book seems to have escaped the attentions of any editors.  It is rife with repetitions (I am not exaggerating when I say that Ryan's Marine Corps helicopter accident is mentioned 20 times).  It would not surprise me if all of Clancy's books start this way - it seems like he just wrote it, then forgot to read it over to make sure it reads well.  Likewise, others have pointed out that the plot is a little thin, which it is, but no thinner than Without Remorse, for example.<br />Basically it comes down to this: there's a good book in here, itjust needed some padding out and an encounter with a red pen.  Bottom line: I enjoyed it, more so than The Bear and the Dragon, but it's destined to remain a minor episode in the Jack Ryan Story.	2004-02-13
US	50762809	R2IB7Q7A10GKL	0449211584	529593233	Chesapeake	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An epic through the generations	James Michener's novels generally tell the story of a geographical location - sometimes large, sometimes small - through a fictional set of interrelated characters.  Chesapeake (perhaps a more accurate title would have been Choptank, but never mind) follows the careers of three families living on the eastern shore of this great bay.  The Steeds: Rich, well-educated pro-slavery plantation owners, forced to take the lead in the Revolution even though they considered themselves royalists.  The Turlocks: uneducated, racist slavers/pirates/privateers, living off the land, poaching and killing Natives, English, and runaway slaves.  The Paxmores: Quaker shipbuilders, lynchpins of the underground railway and moral voices of the Choptank area.<br />The timeframe is from the 15th century to Watergate.  Multiple generations of these three families come and go.  In spite of the huge numbers of characters, Michener manages to keep everything clear.  Each chapter is basically a short story - one is the story of a slave brought from Africa, sold to the Steeds, who eventually buys his freedom.  Another is the story of a Turlock privateer's running feud with a British captain through the War of 1812 and beyond.  These short stories are all interwoven in a larger narrative that develops the land and history of the Chesapeake.<br />For my money, Chesapeake is a well-crafted tale, seamlessly intertwining the individual stories into a coherent whole.  Michener does a much better job here than with, for example, the disjointed Caribbean.  My only complaint is the fact that the last two chapters are extremely weak - rambling, self-indulgent, and without focus.  However, as this is only 100 pages of a 1000 page book, there is so much more to like that I recommend it to anyone.  Even those, like me, who previously had little interest in the area and who have never visited the Chesapeake.	2004-01-03
US	50762809	R32ZWIV0XKIIFD	0439139600	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Harry Potter that lives up to the hype!	One of the most engaging facets of the Harry Potter books is that the author, Joanne Rowling, is growing up as a writer simultaneuous to Harry growing up as a wizard.  There is a quantum leap in quality and entertainment between Books 1 and 2, and again between Book 3 and this one, the Goblet of Fire.  It is a fantastically well-paced, exciting, and interesting adventure story.  It combines what we know well - Hogwarts, Quidditch, and the main characters - with new and interesting characters, spells, and situations.<br />The titular Goblet of Fire choses champions from three schools - Hogwarts, Beauxbaton, and Durmstrang - who compete in the Triwizard Tournament, which is the centrepiece of the action in Book 4.  This tournament is a series of tests with points given for each challenge.  Meanwhile, Harry has attended the Quidditch World Cup where Ireland has triumphed, but he is disturbed by alarming dreams wherein he witnesses murder and threats against himself.  We, the readers, know (and Harry suspects) that Voldemort is the evil source of his dreams and that these dreams are clairvoyant glimpses of actions taking place beyond Harry's control.  Will Voldemort succeed in getting at Harry?  Will a Hogwart's student win the Triwizard Tournament?  Will a Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher manage to last an entire year?  Pick up this book and find out!<br />As Rowling has matured, the flow and suspense of the books has improved, and here she is in her best form to date.  She deftly handles her rapidly increasing character list, so we are never confused.  Her characterisations are fuller and more mature (with the exception, unfortunately, of Malfoy who remains a cardboard cutout villian).  The dialogue seems more realistic somehow - perhaps she remembers what it was like to be 14 better than what it was like to be 12.  At any rate, this book lived up to its hype and its awards - eyebrows were raised when it was awarded the Nebula, but a read will convince you it's not just a kids' book, but a timeless fantasy piece suitable for all ages (over about age 10).ot just a kids' book, but a timeless fantasy piece suitable for all ages (over about age 10).	2003-12-07
US	50762809	RJ9VXWARH82H8	0252016130	716812438	The War of 1812: A Forgotten Conflict	Books	3	34	55	N	N	A political history, entirely from the U.S. point of view	Hickey's history of the War of 1812 is easily readable - to the casual reader like myself.  Likewise, the academic is likely to find the book extremely useful due to the index and footnotes - the author has done his homework!  Remarkably, his discussion of bills/laws and the actions of Congress are not too boring to read - this feat in itself deserves a 4-star rating.  However, I've only given it three stars because of three things that struck me as I got about 40 pages into the book:<br />#1. It is told completely from the point of view of the U.S. - the lawmakers, the generals, the civil reactions, etc.  Not once is there any mention of the very substantial &quot;fifth column&quot; in the Canadas that openly supported the annexation of the Canadas into the U.S.  It was not until Brock's victories at Detroit and Queenston (and to a lesser extent, the seizure of Makinac Island) that the civil authorities in British North America felt they could rely on the civilian population at large to fight the invaders.  Likewise, the unification of the native peoples under Tecumseh and the Prophet is given as a fait accompli, without any background into the years of treaties and effort put in by these two native leaders.<br />#2. It is heavily political - there are 20 pictures of people in the book but only three maps - strategic ones, showing the location of cities and forts, without a single tactical map describing a campaign or battle.  Likewise, the text heavily emphasises congressional debates and gives only a cursory description of battles.  Even discussions of generals are given in terms of their personalities and links to politicians, rather then their tactics on the battlefield.<br />#3. On the positive side, it is heavily referenced and indexed, and it is a very useful and readable account of the War of 1812, the previous two caveats notwithstanding.<br />Interestingly, as the book progressed, I started seeing some parallels between this war and George W. Bush's war in Iraq - both deeply unpopular to a large constituency, both initially declared by the U.S. (although not without provocation), both started on dubious legal pretexts.  Sailors' rights, the putative cause of the War of 1812, are not even mentioned in the eventual peace treaty, while Weapons of Mass Destruction have been all but forgotten in Dubya's Iraqi war.<br />But back to the book.  I don't want to sound negative - what the book sets out to do, it does very well.  It presents the facts clearly and without bias.  It rightfully debunks the notion that it was a Second War of Independence (ultimately it was a War of Independence of British North America from the U.S. that allowed the current nation of Canada to be formed).  He also rightfully points out that the U.S. can be fairly said to have won the peace - Great Britain never again interfered in the U.S.'s wars (with Spain, in the Civil War, etc.).  It ultimately defined the direction of U.S. expansion westward to the Rockies and southward into Mexico and Florida (and simultaneously doomed the Native peoples in those areas).  It created everlasting peace on the U.S.'s northern border.  And so, in the ultimate analysis, the War of 1812 is an important milestone in North American history, and this book helps fill in the very considerable knowledge gap about the war.  It basically falls from 4-star status to 3-star status by representing itself as a comprehensive history of the entire war, not a specific civil examination of the U.S. government during the war.	2003-11-29
US	50762809	R1AP1HOWZ3S6TF	0312280467	155058556	Michael Palin's Hemingway Adventure	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A fine travelogue, evoking the past and present	I am not a Hemmingway fan - the idea of a macho yet self-destructive soul holds no appeal for me.  Likewise, I find his prose turgid and bland, unlike his contemporary, Steinbeck.  However, I thoroughly enjoyed this book.  Michael Palin brings his charm, understated wit, and consummate travelogue-writing skill to the book, and Basil Pao brings fantastic photography and art direction.<br />Hemmingway's life and travels provide an overarching theme to the book that brings us from place to place.  Since most travelogues use geographical locations to provide the arc, the eclectic globe-trotting in this book is refreshing, while at the same time logical.  Likewise, within each chapter we see a variety of locales that won't necessarily make a standard travelogue, because Hemmingway lived in these places and discovered a number of out-of-the-way sites that give a better feel for the actual culture of the cities and countries we're visiting.<br />I've personally visited four of the places in the book - Montana, Chicago, Key West, and Paris.  That I wish to return to those places and experience the parts I missed, as chronicled in the book, is a testament to Palin and Pao's skills.  Presumably a fan of Hemmingway would get even more out of this book than I did, but you obviously don't have to be a Hemmingway afficionado to appreciate and enjoy this book.	2003-10-17
US	50762809	R2WOVMF4CHUR2V	0446356018	502169663	Cradle	Books	3	5	11	N	N	Interesting ideas but cookie-cutter characters	There is a piece Star Trek lore that states a race of beings called the Preservers went through the galaxy picking up semi-intellegent life and planting them around the galaxy to protect them from extinction/war/meteors.  Spielberg's ET is essentially this same idea, and it's the idea behind this novel, Cradle.  In fact, these same authors explore the same territory to better effect in their Rama series.  So why read this book?<br />Frankly, it is inferior to the Rama series.  The plot mostly focusses on a reporter trying to find a test missile she suspects was lost on a test flight.  The navy, naturally, wants to prevent word of this leaking out, so are also searching for the missile.  One of the absurdities of the book is that the reporter finds the missile site so easily when the navy has been looking for weeks (?) with more resources and information.  There are similar absurdities throughout the book.  In addition, the characters are laughably 2-dimensional, all defined by some life-altering mental or physical trauma that took place years before.  Thirdly and most annoyingly, great detail is taken to explain the details of alien manufacture without telling the reader what they are assembling, so the reader must wade through 4 pages of alien automatons attaching sticks together to discover that they are building an antenna.  It's really trying on the reader's patience!<br />And yet I couldn't help but enjoy the book.  The pacing is quick, the writing is usually loose and flowing (with the exception noted above), and it's an easy read.  It's not nearly as good as the Rama series, but more enjoyable than much of what's out there in science fiction.	2003-10-15
US	50762809	R2F7QSJOKNGRP	155109049X	114749880	Oak Island Gold: Startling New Discoveries in the World's Most Famous Treasure Hunt	Books	3	18	18	N	N	Comprehensive and informative, although somewhat dry	I grew up just down the road from Oak Island (in Bridgewater, N.S.), so have always been passingly familiar with the legend of buried treasure on the island.  The folk wisdom in Lunenburg County is that there is a pirate's treasure trove buried on the island, probably Captain Kidd's (as evidenced by the proliferation of that particular buccaneer's name in restaurant and gift-shop titles).  That it has an immense value is also &quot;self-evident&quot; because of the booby-traps set up to foil treasure hunters - and the traps have had the upper hand for the last 230 years!<br />Crooker takes us through the various searches on the island, starting with the original find in the latter 18th century.  Interspersed are chapters dealing with the various legends surrounding the island, including some of the superstitions (pirates would bury someone with the treasure so their ghost would guard it, for instance).  Oddly, he does not repeat the local legend that the treasure will not be found until 10 lives (I think that's the number) have been claimed, or until all the oak trees on the island are cut down.  He convincingly debunks the idea that pirates could be responsible (they wouldn't be disciplined, educated, or have the time to construct such elaborate traps).  He then procedes to present and eliminate a host of other theories - conquistadores, Incas, Templars, Marie Antoinette, etc.  He eventually settles on a favourite of the English king George III as the most likely suspect - why and how I'll leave for you to discover.<br />Unfortunately, the book is somewhat dry - Crooker is an engineer and the description of the various digs are analysed as an engineer, complete with the number of holes drilled, depths, distances from landmarks, etc.  In addition, the Oak Island mystery is going to leave a reader unsatisfied because the treasure hunt has not been solved, and is currently bogged down with lawsuits and ownership battles.  Crooker does his best to make such wranglingsinteresting, and in fact the last few chapters are by far the best of the book.	2003-09-14
US	50762809	R2X72B2C0S1E07	0061006629	388121391	Fatherland	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A standard story set in a fascinating alternate world	The fascination with Fatherland is not the details of the plot, but in the world invoked by the author.  It is an alternate world where Nazi Germany defeated England and Russia, and avoiding war with the U.S.A.  <br />The story takes place within this Germany, on the eve of der Fuhrer's 75th birthday.  A police inspector is warned off a case by the Gestapo, but his cop intuition tells him something funny is going on.  He eventually figures out a connection between a number of former high-ranking Party officials that have all recently died, most under suspicious circumstances.  From there, he discovers a coverup of monumental proportions (which I won't reveal), and the race is on to try to get the truth out of Germany before the Gestapo picks him up for \\"questioning.\\"<br />This is standard fare that could have been set in any dictatorship of the 20th century, without need to resort to an alternate world where WWII ends differently.  However, Harris's victorious Germany is a fascinating creation, all the more so because he doesn't dwell on it.  The characters inhabit this world, and we accept it because they do and because it is so plausible.  It is clear Harris did his homework in populating his 3rd Reich with a combination of real people and fictional characters that seamlessly intertwine.  Armchair historians will recognise many of the names - Speer, Heydrich, Frank, Eichmann - but even some of the lesser-known party officials are well researchered.  Checking back in my Rise and Fall of the Third Reich, many of these characters are there, doing what Harris has them doing.<br />Harris has made some weird choices, such as allowing Heydrich to survive assassination in Czechoslovakia in 1943 - why?  It's not like Heydrich is a vital character.  But all-in-all it's a fascinating read.  Not for the plot details, which are pretty standard, but for the creation of this Nazi Germany that Could Have Been.	2003-09-13
US	50762809	R957R37CR5YSY	0345330129	439022701	The Door into Summer	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Revenge for what they did to his cat!	Dan Davis is an engineer and inventor.  He loves his cat.  When his fiance and business partner force him out of his own company, he's okay with that.  When they steal his latest invention, he's okay with that.  When they drug him and throw him into cryogenic sleep for 30 years, well, the \\"future\\" is not so bad.  However, when they try to harm his cat, Dan Davis must revenge himself on the perpetrators.  Fortunately, there is a method available for a suitable revenge....<br />This book is charming, fun, and a very quick read at 160 pages.  I can see why people have such great affection for it (although I doubt man dog-lovers do...).  It's remarkably cheerful and optimistic.  Although I would not consider it a \\"juvenile\\" novel, it has the same upbeat tone as Rocket Ship Galilieo and Between Planets.<br />Some of Heinlein's inventions are eerily prescient: urban sprawl on the west coast, Velcro, CAD, easing of nudity taboos, etc.  Let's be realistic, however - there are equal numbers (or more) of busts - automatic vacuums, robots, and nuclear war, to name a few.  Heinlein has always been a writer that seems prescient, but it's only because statistically, someone who makes as many predictions as he is bound to get some right.  Likewise, the main character is not realistic - resourseful, inventive, likeable, yes, but no one person could invent the things Davis does.  Therefore, I recommend the book because of it's sunny disposition, while simultaneously shaking my head at its absurdities.	2003-08-28
US	50762809	R3IV75K8ZL1KK4	0385495323	440237161	The Code Book: The Science of Secrecy from Ancient Egypt to Quantum Cryptography	Books	5	4	6	N	N	"Popular science" that is accurate and easy to read	I'm sure everyone is familiar with the idea of the \\"monoalphabetic cipher,\\" wherein a message is written in code by letting one letter represent another.  To the untrained eye, the resulting text looks like gibberish without any structure.  This is the starting point of Simon Singh's excellent primer on the nature of codes and ciphers, and he quickly points out the inherent weakness of the monoalphabetic cipher.  As fans of game shows like Wheel of Fortune know, some letters are more common than others; the cipher is easily broken by frequency analysis - the most common letters in the enciphered text are going to be E, A, and S, for example.  So, in fact, the enciphered text DOES have structure, and it's there for the deciphering by a codebreaker.<br />The strength of Singh's book is its readability and structure.  He introduces various methods of encoding information, points out the weaknesses that were exploited to break the code, then how the cryptographers came up with a new code to foil the codebreakers.  Singh especially stresses the practicality of each method - there are very simple encoding schemes that are actually unbreakable, but also completely impractical for everyday use.  This is especially important to the military - what good is a battlefield code if it takes too long to decode?<br />Early chapters are of historical interest, but also contain codes and ciphers that are very easy to understand, so the reader gets comfortable with the language and problems of cryptography.  Each chapter presents a more complex cipher than the previous, and each time Singh explains it easily, even such convoluted automations as the Nazi Enigma machine.  He offers some fascinating diversions into ancient language elucidation (e.g., heiroglyphics), and eventually ends with a discussion of quantum computers and quantum cryptography.  This is an area especially challenging to explain to the lay reader - based on the other reviews, he has done well.  This section is clearand fascinating to read.  As a chemist familiar with quantum mechanics, I can assure you that the scientific facts are presented accurately, much to the author's credit.<br />Therefore, I highly recommend this book as an insightful, educational, and enjoyable introduction to cryptography.  You will learn a lot, and will enjoy learning it.	2003-08-25
US	50762809	R3DXR52KI1HKHH	0439136369	667539744	Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Some new, some familiar, but all entertaining	We return to Hogwart's School of Witchcraft and Wizardry for Harry Potter's 3rd year.  This year will be eventful, if only because adventure seems to follow Harry around!  This time, a murderer has escaped from the wizard prison Azkaban - a man who helped He Who Must Not Be Named murder Harry's parents.  It is assumed that he will come after Harry, and Azkaban guards (Dementors) are dispatched to guard Hogwarts.  Harry has more mundane problems with Prof. Snape and his potions class, with his Muggle guardians who refused to sign a consent form for day trips to the nearby magic town, and with daily Quidditch practices led by his obsessive team captain who, as a 7th-year, is down to his last chance to win the Quidditch Cup.<br />J.K. Rowling gives us more-or-less what we expect from a Harry Potter book - adventure, suspense, kids saving the day, etc.  She also gives us a good dose of new delights.  Especially memorable are the Dementors, who suck all happy thoughts from a person, driving him/her insane.  There are many more memorable additions to the Hogwarts universe that I won't go into as they would reveal too much of the plot.  Suffice to say, this is a page turner because you never know what's coming next (except we're pretty confident Harry will survive since there are 2 more H.P. books out there!).<br />Adults are likely to notice that the tone and pacing are essentially identical to the previous book - I'm sure the target age-group would not notice, but as an adult I was hoping for a little more variety.  Likewise, there are times (especially with Snape and Malfoy) where they act like carricatures of comic book supervillians, and so are difficult to take seriously.  Again, the target 10-13 year old age group will likely not be concerned with this.  All in all, it is a rousing adventure that \\"kids\\" of all ages will enjoy, be they 10 or 50 years old.	2003-08-04
US	50762809	R2KY9Z1EW9QM0J	0812515285	646002347	A Fire Upon The Deep (Zones of Thought)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Fascinating inventions of aliens and future technology	Vernor Vinge created a fascinating universe, then filled it with a top-notch story.  This novel was a Hugo Award winner, and it's hard to disagree with the selection committee's choice.  The primary leap of faith is the way Vinge sets up his galaxy - he stratifies it (based on density?) into 3 zones: The Slowness, where the speed of light is the fastest possible speed (and where the Earth currently resides); the Beyond, where lightspeed and near-instantaneous communication is possible; and the Transcend, where instantaneous communication (among other things) is possible.<br />In the Transcend live the Powers, transendental beings of great power, that are severely limited in other zones because of the time-lag in communication, etc.  Many corporeal beings from the lower levels try to acheive transcendance, and therefore tinker in that level.  Our story starts with a human colony trying to achieve transcendance, but they unwittingly release a Power of great malevolence and extreme strength.  This Power destroys the colony and goes on a rampage through the rest of the galaxy, bent on universal dominance.<br />However....  Two children and their parents have escaped the holocaust with a vital piece of information - a Countermeasure that could damage/destroy the Power.  The Power knows it's missing, but not where.  When these refugees crash on a pre-industrial world, the race is on between the Power and a small group that have the key to using the Countermeasure.<br />The story is more complex than a simple outline can describe, and includes a number of extraterrestrial races, planets, and subplots.  They are held together by a galaxy-straddling faster-than-light newsnet, much like the newsgroups of current internet technology.  Vinge's greatest inventions, though, are the two extraterrestrial races that are featured in the story, the Tines and the Skroderiders.  The Tines are a fascinating invention, pack-animals (similar to dogs) that need to live in groups to supporttheir intelligence (single members are only semi-sentient).  Vinge fully develops the society of these creatures in a convincing and fascinating way.  Likewise, the Skroderiders are sentient plants with high intelligence but low short-term memory capacity, and are an interesting twist on standard alien societies.<br />Most of the book is built around tension - there is very little action.  This is good, because Vinge seems out of his element when writing about battles.  The book's climactic battle is a little contrived relative to the freshness of the rest of the story.  This is a very minor quibble.  A Fire Upon the Deep is a vast undertaking, but so well written that you immediately fit into the universe and get pulled into the story.	2003-07-30
US	50762809	R18VZDXN15YCJS	014028009X	738261988	Bridget Jones's Diary: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Very funny for both sexes	Bridget Jones is a 30-ish cog in the corporate machine who feels unappreciated, unheard, and unloved.  This novel is a year in her life, written as a diary, wherein we learn the details of her alcohol intake, party meltdowns, and sexual adventures.  It is all so absurdly funny that the average reader is likely to find it difficult to put the book down.<br />There are a few basic threads that run through the book and intertwine - conflict with her immediate boss (Perpetua!), flirtation with her boss's boss, and her mother's middle-aged crisis (she runs off with a Portugese con artist).  Naturally, the amount of events taking place in Bridget's life do not leave much time for career, so she does little at work except flirt with her boss's boss, then quits to take a job at a Hard Copy type show that sensationalises trivial news.  Through it all, Mark Darcy keeps popping up, acting mysteriously like his namesake from Pride and Prejudice (in fact, the end of the story reads very much like a modern-day remake of that Jane Austin book).<br />This is obviously a very British book, and there are some parts that are slightly confusing for a North American.  For example, what we call \\"*69\\" in Canada (and the U.S.?) is called \\"1671\\" - i.e. dialback numbers of people that have called while you were out.  However, a couple of pages will reveal the context and you can figure out the North American equivalent.<br />The book is written in a very choppy style, as journal entries by Bridget after an event.  As such, the writing is not very dense, and it's easy to breeze through pages just taking a few minutes here and there - a great book to carry in the briefcase.  Men and women are likely to thoroughly enjoy the book - all the characters are slightly stereotyped, and we've all met people like them - the sleazy womaniser, the ditsy blonde, the rabid feminist, the flightly mother, etc.  I would worry if you identify too closely with any of the characters!  =)  Therefore, it's highly recommended as a lightweight farce of life for the modern (single) professional.	2003-07-28
US	50762809	R31YQXWE7GDGM1	0385720386	288543952	Carnage and Culture: Landmark Battles in the Rise to Western Power	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The power of the western world explored	Davis's fundamental thesis is that the West (defined roughly as Greco-Roman Europe and their successor empires) has dominated the world militarily for the last 2500 years because of political, social, and economic systems, not because of certain great men, epidemics, or natural geographical advantages.  He presents his case convincingly by examining several battles in detail: the naval battles Salamis, Lepanto, and Midway; the infantry battles of Guagamala, Cannae, Tours, Cortes's destruction of the Aztecs, Rourke's Drift (British-Zulu War), and the Tet.<br />Davis is deliberately challenging to the reader: why else would he call his first chapter \\"Why the West Has Won\\"?  He then sets out to convince the reader that Western hegemony is due to the Western tradition of scientific freedom (research into better methods to kill), church/state separation (victory or defeat is not ordained by God), and political security/freedom.  This last item seems to be the most important - if a soldier is secure that his lands are safe from arbitrary confiscation, he is more likely to fight to protect them.  Likewise, he is free from arbitrary death/imprisonment from his ruler(s).  Finally, the freedom to debate strategy allows the state to learn from mistakes and improve.<br />Of course, zooming in on specific battles is dangerous when discussing general trends, but Davis always puts the battle in the larger strategic context.  In fact, his most convincing chapter - that on Cannae - is a discussion of an abject defeat of (Western) Rome by (non-Western) Carthage.  Hannibal was clearly the best general of his day, managed to annhilate 3 Roman legions, but in the end it was Carthage that was destroyed, not Rome.  Why? - because the Roman constitutional republic produced better soldiers, generals, and equipment than despotic Carthage ever could.  At the same time, this book drives the nail into the coffin of the \\"great man\\" theory - Hannibal, Genghis Khan, etc. were clearly better generals than their Western counterparts, but their peoples could not take and hold Western land after their passing because their governmental systems were not as strong as the West's system.<br />The book is not perfect - Davis does tend to repeat himself a little.  In addition, the final chapter on the Tet is terrible - it is mostly a moral justification for the U.S.'s involvement in Vietnam, rather than an analysis of the military issues.  They are not fatal flaws, however, so armchair historians like myself will thoroughly enjoy this book.	2003-07-15
US	50762809	R15CCVFC8TA3YU	0441359175	340611713	I Will Fear No Evil	Books	1	16	25	N	N	Man becomes woman - as seen in "Penthouse Letters"	There is a well-circulated FAQ on the internet with information on Heinlein.  In it, there is a suggestion that Heinlein fans generally consider this book to be one of his weakest.  I must concur with that statement.  There is very little here of interest, and almost none of the usual provocative Heinlein theorising.  (To be fair, in the pre-AIDS 1970's when this book was written, it may have been better received, but today it seems dated and ludicrous).<br />The basic idea - that of a man's brain being transplanted into a woman's body - is good, if not original (Star Trek did this a few years earlier, for example).  The man: an ancient, crusty CEO worth billions.  The woman: his beautiful nymphomaniacal secretary, who the boss was infatuated with.  After a mugging leaves the secretary brain-dead, the boss's brain is transplanted into her body.  With a new set of hormones and new sexual equipment, the boss sets out to discover what life is like as a woman.  The wrinkle: the \\"spirit\\" of the woman is still in the body, guiding the boss on his new journey.<br />There are some good parts: there is the court challenge to the wo/man's identity: is she the boss? the secretary? both?  There are some practical and philosphical points brought up, and this is what Heinlein readers want.  However, the vast majority of the book is spent on the wo/man's sexual conquests.  Unfortunately, everyone in the book behaves as if they are straight out of the Playboy mansion.  Worse, Heinlein writes the wo/man's character as a male fantasy of what a woman is: completely unrealistic!  Two examples will have to suffice to illustrate the silliness.  (1) The wo/man gives a (full-mouth) kiss to everyone that treats her well - her lawyer, her doctors, her (female) nurse, a judge, her bodyguards, etc.  Most of these people she also has sex with.  Hasn't anyone heard of professional misconduct?  (2) In rooms where men are sitting around in comfort, wearing business suits, she will complain about how hot she is and take off her clothes.  In my experience, women are likely to be colder than men at a given temperature.<br />Granted, this is a fantasy tale, and such details would not bother me in a fantasy world.  However, Heinlein is otherwise careful to make things realistic, so the realism/fantasy conflict is distracting to the point of annoyance.  All women in the book, including the main character, are Playboy carricatures.  Likewise, the men are all controlled solely by their libidoes, with most people (including a 70-year old laywer) having sex several times a day!  Again: silly characters/dialogue are forgivable if there is good action (see Michael Crichton), but that isn't the case here - nothing happens!<br />Take my advice - give this one a miss, especially if you haven't read much Heinlein.  Check out Starship Troopers, Stranger in a Strange Land, or even Citizen of the Galaxy (a \\"young adult\\" book) for better written, more thought provoking Heinlein.  For those (like me) that have to read it all - don't say that I didn't warn you!	2003-06-04
US	50762809	R3TWEV1N6DGZTQ	0380817616	905850591	Stations of the Tide	Books	3	9	16	N	N	Uneven - when its good, its good.  When its not, its painful	The hero of this Nebula Award-winning book is a bueaurucrat.  That Swanwick would choose someone with such a job as his hero, and then leave him unnamed for the entire book, is indicative of the nature of the narrative.  It's at times quirky, fun, enjoyable, but also irritating, confusing, and silly.<br />This future world has that the galaxy colonised by humans (and one other intellegent race) who have enormous technological abilities.  However, much of the tech is proscribed, especially from the peoples of the colonial planets.  This leads to resentment on these colonial worlds, one of which is Miranda.  It is this planet's fate to suffer a planet-wide flood (due to a shift in its axis of roation).  A 'magician' named Gregorian has appeared, apparently with access to proscribed technology.  He appears (to the tech controllers) to be murdering people in the guise of &quot;metamorphosing&quot; them into sea-dwelling creatures.  Thus, the bureaucrat is dispatched to investigate.<br />We follow as the bureaucrat tries to track Gregorian down.  There are some neat touches, especially his sentient briefcase/matter transformer, a 24/7 soap opera that everyone is watching (that we see in parallel with the characters), and a system of &quot;surrogates&quot; - remote controlled robots that project the image of the person they are representing.  Unfortunately, the system of surrogates leads to a great deal of confusion because the characters (and author) treat each surrogate as the real thing, and multiple surrogates are possible.  This leads to a number of unnecessarily confusing passages of &quot;himself talking to himself, while his real self listens in&quot;.<br />Another unfortunate characteristic of the book is to leave interesting ideas dangling.  For example, resentment of the people from whom technology being withheld is ubiquitous, but nowhere is the bureaucrat's rationale for withholding it justified or even explained.  Likewise, bizarre (and scientifically impossible) events are described in detail as being true, presumably because the author thought they were too good an image to drop.  This, to me, is lazy writing in a science fiction book, and is especially irritating because long passages are very good/interesting but they alternate with long passages that are confusing/annoying.<br />At any rate, it's an interesting read, with some neat ideas, and worth the cost of the paperback.  I would not consider it a classic, in spite of its Nebula Award.	2003-04-28
US	50762809	R2RYL9JEL4ILQ8	0671021311	397995807	Get a Life!	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A personal memoir of the Trek phenomenon	William Shatner is always an entertaining figure, whether it's his acting, his promotional interviews, or, especially, his personal memoirs.  This is the third in a sort of series - this book follows logically from Star Trek Memories and Star Trek Movie Memories.  Now that James T. Kirk is dead, Shatner's connection with the Star Trek universe is primarily as an author and conference attendee.  This book gives a personal and inside look at the Trek phenomenon from the man most responsible for the success of the franchise.<br />Shatner prowled the floor of many conventions, met fans and merchandise dealers, and quizzed organisers and his castmates.  It is all arranged in a series of short chapters, each telling a specific story about a fan, an actor, etc.  Shatner (and coauthor Kreski) keep the pace moving, and each individual story is amusing, entertaining, and/or informative, shedding a little more light on the extended Star Trek family.<br />I wanted to hear more from his fellow actors - the emphasis is certainly on the fans and stories about/from them.  Shatner's position at the heart of Trek's mythology gave him a special position to reveal the thoughts and stories of his fellow cast members, but there are precious few of those.  All the original cast members (save Doohan) contributed to his Star Trek Memories books, but for this book, only Nimoy has any presence from his old &quot;crew&quot; (Voyager's Jeri Ryan and DS9's Terry Farrell round out the actors' contributions).  However, this is a minor quibble, and overall the book is illuminating, entertaining, and very enjoyable.	2003-03-25
US	50762809	REZTDIZB6WBAK	0345346904	289202770	Gateway (Heechee Saga)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Hard science fiction combined with character study	The premise of Gateway is simple enough - humankind has discovered a space station abandoned 500 000 years ago by a technologically superior race (the \\"Heechee\\").  Part of the station's equipment is a group of space shuttles with faster-than-light drives.  The shuttles have a capacity of 1 to 5 humans.  No one can figure out most of the technology in them, but through trial and error, they learn that if a certain panel glows a certain intensity, the ship will make a round trip to.... somewhere.  The truly adventurous (or desperate) sign up to ride the vessels out and back and see if they go anywhere of use (i.e. an old Heechee colony that contains some more of the wonderful Heechee artfacts/technology).  Of course, because nothing is known of the destination, and because the Heechee were known to be scientists, sometimes the destinations are close to black holes, inside recent supernovae (that were stars 500 000 years ago), or the trip is too long for the occupants' food/water supplies.<br />The central character is Bob Broadhead, a poor miner who won enough money in a lottery for a ticket to Gateway.  Unfortunately for him, he's a self-professed coward - afraid to go back to the mines, yet afraid to try his luck in the Heechee ships.  It turns out that the story is more of a character study - we first meet Broadhead in his psychiatrist's office, where he's fabulously wealthy after three trips in the Heechee ships, but with deep emotional problems.  The story intercuts between therapy sessions and a first-person account of the actual events leading up to his fame and pychosis.<br />The strength of the book is the way it maintains suspense and interest - we know what is going to happen to Broadhead, but not how, and not the fates of his friends and associates.  It is well established that many flights are \\"successful\\" only in the fact that at least one of the crew returns alive.  The therapy sessions and the story narrative are effortlessly intertwined and build up arich weave of narrative that is difficult to put down.<br />The future world is plausible, and written in a fashion where little is explained explicitly, but where the reader can fully understand based on context.  There is very little science because the inner workings of the Heechee artifacts are not understood.  The book's weakness is, in fact, its attempts to explain some of the technologies (the explanations of Heechee \\"metal\\" are laughable).  However, this is a fully realised futuristic society, self-contained and a logical extension of pre-AIDS sexual mores... That the psychoanalysis is almost excusively Freudian is forgivable because it fits perfectly well with the attitudes and morals of the society.<br />It is the first book of a series, although completely self-contained.  It piqued my interest enough that I will be on the lookout for the second book in the series, and is a worthy dounle-winner of science fiction's top prizes, the Hugo and Nebula.	2003-03-09
US	50762809	RQZXICCT1MQCY	0439064872	667539744	Harry Potter And The Chamber Of Secrets	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Solid sophomore story - better than the first	The Chamber of Secrets follows Harry Potter's 2nd year at Hogwart's School of Wizardry.  It is assumed that it is also the reader's second incursion into this world, so that the book is a true sequel.  This allows the story to move at a faster pace, without slowing down to explain the rules of Quidditch, for example.  The overall effect is a much smoother and ultimately more enjoyable story.<br />The titular Chamber of Secrets is the source of the mystery for Harry and his best friends, Hermione and Ron.  When several students are literally petrified, and chilling warnings written on the walls threatening more of the same, Hogwart's is thrown into confusion and chaos.  Naturally, it's up to our 3 heroes to save the day, whilst trying to defend the House Cup championship and passing their courses.<br />We are introduced to some new characters, and most of our old favourites are back.  There is something familiar and comfortable about the surroundings and the people, mostly because Rowling does such a good job of introducing them in the first book.  However, there are a number of new, creepy, and fun situations, making this story as inventive as the first.  However, the overall theme is very similar to the first book - something unknown endangers the school/students, the heroes can't trust anyone and sneak around after hours to figure out the problem, and it comes down to a confrontation in the bowels of the school.  You only notice this on hindsight, however - while immersed in the story you are entranced and likely to finish in a very short time, then go looking for the 3rd book.<br />The writing level seems to be about the same as the first book - intended for early teens (maybe 11-14?), but is equally enjoyable to adults, and is probably not too scary to be read to younger children.	2003-03-05
US	50762809	RDJIT5FO3HRRL	0676970044	470508107	Warpaths : Travels of a Military Historian in North America	Books	2	4	9	N	N	The least of Keegan's efforts	Of the many books by John Keegan that I have read, this is by far the least enjoyable.  Two stars is probably a harsh assessment, but there are a few points that annoy me greatly about the book, and overshadow the scholarship and insight that are also present in significant quantities.<br />First, the positive.  As usual, Keegan looks for parallels and contrasts in defining historical people, places, or battles.  In this book he analyses the geography of North America and describes 4 wars on its soil in terms of the limitations and opportunities offered by key strategic points.  The wars include those between English and French about Quebec, the American Revolution, the Civil War's Penninsular campaign, and the wars of extermination of the Native Peoples in the Plains territories (including Custer's Last Stand).  He convincingly argues that the twin keys to North America are the St. Lawrence/Lake Champlain/Hudson River corridor and the extended Mississippi watershed (of course, these are connected through portages/canals).  Of course, such a dry description does not do justice to Keegan's fine writing style that brings alive the geography, the society, and the battles themselves.<br />And yet....  All the fine analysis is for naught.  Keegan does normally inject a certain amount of his personal opinion and direct observation of battlefields and locations that he's personally visited.  However, in this book, it is taken to an extreme.  The first 65 (!) pages are a meandering, self-indulgent account of vacations he's taken in the U.S. and Canada, ostensibly to describe the geography, but redundently because he rehashes it all in the chapters dealing with the specific wars.  Worse still, it's dull.  The next few chapters perk up considerably, especially  that describing the Civil War.  However, it's all ruined again by his unbelievable defense of the genocide commited by the U.S. (and  Britain/Canada, for that matter, but he focusses on the U.S. in this book) on theirnative populations.  He seems to justify his stance by calling the Natives \\"selfish\\" for wanting to maintain their way of life and low population density.  My jaw dropped in disbelief when I read it!  That's like justifying Hitler's invasion of Poland (and his attempted genocide of its people) because Germany needed \\"liebensraum.\\"<br />So, unfortunately, I cannot endorse this book, in spite of its many good points.  Pick up Keegan's Face of Battle or Mask of Command for examples of his penetrating insight.  Steer clear of this one (not difficult since it's currently out of print).	2003-03-01
US	50762809	R1IDYKW9EN7MT5	0345321383	932766552	Bridge of Birds: A Novel of an Ancient China That Never Was	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A delightful fantasy tale	When the children of a village are accidentally poisoned, Number Ten Ox (a tenth son who is strong as an ox) sets out to buy information from a learned sage.  He discovers that his 3000 copper coins do not go far and has to settle for Li Kao, a seer with \\"A slight flaw in his character.\\"  However, the irreverent and cynical Li is just what the doctor ordered, and the two set off on a quest for the \\"Great Root of Power.\\"<br />The quest takes them through a fantasy China that resembles actual China in the same way as Tolkien's lands resemble Europe.  For example, ghosts and gods are real and interact directly with living mortals, the wisest man in the world actually can make you immortal (and invulnerable), etc.  This mystical backdrop is filled with fun and interesting characters - each one a fully-developed and unique individual.  This is important, as the characters keep reappearing in what can only be called \\"directed coincidence.\\"<br />There are scenes of bone-chilling violence (why do people insist it is suitable for children?), tender romance, sex, drugs, and if there is no rock 'n' roll, it's only because it hadn't been invented yet (we get a bell-chorus instead).  In short, this book has it all, and the tale is told in a lyrical and very funny way that's sure to keep you entertained from page 1 to the end.	2003-02-12
US	50762809	R1YOAXVY7AGYVG	0441007872	332040900	Forever Free	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Generally entertaining, but pointless	This book is a sequel to The Forever War only in the sense that the characters are the same people.  To me, the Forever War is a classic piece of literature, flawlessly incorporating science (or rather, the consequences of scientific theories such as relativity).  Wedded to the science is a logical futuristic extension of military life and warfare.  However, Forever Free is not a sequel in terms of subject matter, and is not nearly as immersing a book.  It consequently suffers from the comparison.<br />Mandela, the hero of Forever War, has settled down, had a family, and is growing restless.  He suggests a bold plan - steal a ship, point it off into space and fly out for 5 years, and then back for 5.  By going fast enough, time on the planet will have progressed 40 000 years, due to the relativistic time dilation.  This is an interesting idea, although I question the sanity of anyone undertaking the task of trying to envision life 40 000 years from now....  At any rate, without revealing the plot, various things happen to foil the plan.<br />Unfortunately, the twists are added randomly - they are \\"Deus Ex Machina\\" plot mechanations that do not rise naturally from the text.  I don't mind one of these kinds of twists, but here there are a several, some of which are completely unnecessary.  Again, without revealing the plot, the ending seems like he ran out of ideas and just stopped writing.<br />Having said that negative stuff, I have to admit that I was interested in what would happen next.  His main invention, a \\"group-minded\\" species called Man, is very interesting.  Basically all these people are genetically identical (cloned) and periodically upload their new experiences to the Group Mind, so they have the same knowledge/experience.  To quote one of the characters, \\"Seems to me you're just a bunch of commies!\\"  But they are well-developed, and it's an interesting take on a potential future for mankind.	2003-02-05
US	50762809	R2MYW7XAQ6LQ0C	9992011920	437331541	El futur d'Andorra: 4a Diada Andorrana, XXVI Universitat Catalana d'Estiu, del 15 al 24 d'agost de 1991, Prada de Conflent (Catalan Edition)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An informal study of greatness	My copy of this book is entitled &quot;An Informal Study of Greatness.&quot;  What the subtitle promises, the book delivers.  Rather than an exhaustive look at each and every event of importance, Taylor gives us a glimpse of Churchill, the man, in a series of anecdotes and vignettes.  For example, WWII occupies approximately the same space as the material on his hobby painting.  However, as the book was written in 1952 (when Churchill was still alive), and because Churchill himself was so guarded about giving interviews, this was the necessary method of writing.  It is very successful, though.  Taylor supplies wit and flow to the narrative, so it is very easy and entertaining to read.<br />Churchill's views would today seem prehistoric - he was against universal suffrage, for example.  Likewise, the narrative suffers somewhat for having been written in a time of universal chauvenism.  This does not detract from the book - it's always necessary to judge people relative to the times in which they lived, and Churchill's life took place in a time of immense social and military change.<br />It's clear that the author respects and admires Churchill, but not to the detriment of his objectivity.  He does not gloss over Churchill's heavy drinking, lack of fashion sense, or child-like impatience.  He does not dwell on them, either, instead moving quickly from story to story to give a sense of the personality of the man, not a detailed analysis of his political or social views.<br />This book is a fascinating glimpse at the man behind the legend.  It's too bad it's been out of print for some time, but it's not too difficult to find used - I gather the book did well, so there's lots of copies out there.	2003-01-29
US	50762809	R2Z2XDQGEAWFBB	0030202930	919817009	Analytical Chemistry: An Introduction (Saunders Golden Sunburst Series)	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Good text for intro, general analytical course(s)	We use this text (now in its 7th edition) for both our Analytical I (chemical analysis) and Analytical II (instrumental analysis) courses.  They are both 1-semester courses at the sophomore year, and this text is just the correct level and length to cover both courses.  There are a number of broad sections, each of which is divided into several chapters.  Roughly the 1st half covers chemical methods and the second half covers the instrumental methods.  There are also a few chapters devoted to statistical analysis.<br />The sections are reasonably independent and can be done in pretty much any order, giving a great degree of flexibility.  The text itself is easy to read with numerous descriptive diagrams.  I say this for  second-year level courses - the text is too superficial for higher levels.  There is a good mix of descriptive chemistry to give the student a feel for the chemistry behind the analyses.  Finally, there are adequate exercises at the end of the chapters, some of which are cumulative with previous sections.  There is also a very handy tutorial on the use of Microsoft's Excel for use in a course like this, including some specific exercises in using the spreadsheet.  I find it very helpful, and not at all exclusive for those using Excel since Quatro-Pro (and Lotus?) is very similar and contains help files that translate from Excel parlance.<br />My biggest issue is lack of a section on mass spectroscopy.  Skoog's own &quot;Instrumental Analysis&quot; text has a fine section on mass spec, but this text contains virtually no mention of the technique, in spite of the fact that it is an increasingly important technique for both quantitative and qualitative trace analysis.  However, that's the only real negative point - this text is very good and useful for 2nd year level analytical courses.  (P.S. students find it straightforward and clear as well.)	2003-01-22
US	50762809	R15XCONX6JYDHO	1891389017	491839788	Inorganic Chemistry	Books	3	22	24	N	N	Good breadth of topics but boring and a bit cursory	Wulfsberg's Inorganic Chemistry manages to escape the obvious pitfalls of a first-edition text: it is not similar to other texts already on the market, and it is fairly error-free.  Being error-free is no mean feat, especially when you consider that Shriver and Atkin's 3rd (!) edition of their text is rife with mistakes.  In fact, in many ways this Wulfsberg offering is better than any other inorganic text on the market.  There are also some serious drawbacks, however.<br />    First the positive.  I've already mentioned the fact that there are few errors.  Another BIG adavantage is the scope of the text: it covers the entire periodic table.  The introductory chapters (11 of 17) cover general trends, including symmetry, redox, crystal field theory, etc.  Only 4 chapters are devoted to that insidious practice of qualitative description of compounds and their physical properties.  Finally, the text is arranged so that chapters are roughly independent - it is not a detriment to skip over a chapter here and there if your course content so requires.<br />Unfortunately, these positives are almost evenly balanced by some serious (in my opinion) negatives.  For starters, the text is boring!  Even I, the professor, find it difficult to read.  Part of the problem is that the author seems to think that 2 pages of text is better at explaining something than a half-page picture.  This makes for heavy reading when trying to study!  Secondly: there is too much hand-waving description relative to hard chemical theory.  This may be fine for a 2nd-year level course, but most professors will want a text that has enough depth that they can use it in a 3rd- or 4th-year course as well, and I'm afraid this is a little superficial in places.  Finally, I have to question the fact that crystal-field theory has an entire chapter devoted to it, while ligand-field theory (and consquently, symmetry-adapted orbitals) is essentially ignored.  In my experience, both as a student and as a prof, anyone who learns LFT finds it much easier and more satisfying than the gross simplifications (and outright errors!) of CFT.<br />I have used this text and Shriver and Atkins's text as assigned books for my 3rd-year inorganic courses.  For my money, Shriver and Atkins, in spite of its overemphasis on physical chemistry and numerous errors, is still a better text.  However, I'm anxiously looking forward to a second edition of Wulfsberg, as it wouldn't take too much effort to make it a superior product.	2003-01-12
US	50762809	RI918SDS5JEHX	0553562738	466136665	Doomsday Book	Books	4	4	7	N	N	An engrossing tale of the 14th century	Kivrin, a young student of history is sent back in time to 14th century England to learn about the lives of that time.  Unfortunately, she leaves just as an epidemic breaks out at her university in Oxford, and she is herself infected.  The story then follows parallel lines, telling of the influenza epidemic in 21st century Oxford, and the onset of the Black Death in Kivrin's villiage in the past.<br />The main characters, Kivrin and one of her Oxford profs, are well rounded and memorable.  You come to care about them and root for them in their trials.  The 14th century villiage is a fascinating construction - presumably the author took 5 years to write the book because she was boning up on life in the 14th century.  These people ring true, the life in the manor house especially so.  Equally fascinating are a number of little true-to-life touches that Willis adds, both to the 21st and the 14th century stories - there is a subtle undercurrent of social commentary throughout.  One such example (dear to my own heart) is a general misunderstanding of probability and statistics that pervades the non-scientific personel running the time-travel experiment.  Some things never change!<br />There are a few points that detract from the overall enjoyment of the book, most notably Willis's irritating tendency to allow her characters to blindly ignore the obvious for hundreds of pages after the reader has already figured out some important point.  This wouldn't be so annoying if Willis didn't leave such obvious hints to both the reader and the character.  Secondly, I have to question her description of the poor 14th century peasants.  While I believe they would be dirty, have poor clothing, etc., I don't believe they would be so stupid (or lazy, or overworked) that they would not fill in the cracks in their walls with mud or straw, and simply allow the winter wind to blow through.  I'm more inclined to agree with the descriptions in Crichton's Timeline: people may be superstitiousand vicious, but that doesn't mean they are stupid.<br />However, the narrative is engrossing, the characters well-written, and we get a fascinating glimpse into 14th century life.  I prefer Timeline, that has more action, more science, and a more plausible time-travel system, but for character development and a thoughtful look at the timelessness of human nature, Willis's book is heartily recommended.	2003-01-11
US	50762809	R16HMMZZ02OQVM	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Entertaining for all ages	Harry Potter is a modern-day classic, with all the standard elements.  J.K. Rowling's genius is not that she brought these elements together (that we could see every day in the movie theatre or on TV), but that they are dressed in an entirely new way - self-consistent, absorbing, and highly entertaining.<br />This book is the first of the Harry Potter series, where we meet the characters and some of the classic locations for the first time.  Harry, the classic Dickensian adopted son, must sleep under the stairs in his aunt and uncle's house, while his cousin has 2 bedrooms: one for himself, one for his toys.  Naturally, Harry is the diamond in the rough - his parents were famous witches, and he is a natural with a wand and a broomstick.<br />When he is summoned off to Hogwarts, the best school in England for studying magic, he makes friends and enemies among his classmates and the faculty alike.  The book is a re-telling of the standard English Public School tale, simply substituting \\"Hogwarts\\" for \\"Eton,\\" \\"Quidditch\\" for \\"Rugby,\\" and \\"Potions\\" for \\"Chemistry.\\"  However, such a simple analysis doesn't do justice to the fun and magic (no pun intended) of the story.<br />This strikes me as an ideal book to read to young children (say, over 5 years old).  It's much like a good Disney cartoon - it's enjoyable for the child hearing it, and equally enjoyable for the parent.	2003-01-10
US	50762809	R3UAAQBR60KROC	0195014766	459752409	The Art of War	Books	4	55	63	N	Y	A clear and useful translation	The Art of War is a military classic, written around 400 BC.  However, because the maxims contained in the book are so succinct and universal, this is still a useful book for understanding and waging war today.  The central themes are to attack where the enemy is weak, deceive the enemy into attacking you on your terms (not his), and the use of espionage to confuse the enemy while gathering information for your own use.<br />This book is a classical, scholarly translation.  I cannot comment on the accuracy of the translation, as I do not read Chinese.  However, the translator sprinkles the text with footnotes to explain why he has chosen certain phrases that do not directly translate, and offers alternative explanations from other translators.  Therefore, you get a good feel for what Sun Tzu originally meant, especially through the critical inclusion of selected commentaries.  In addition, there is an introduction by the author on the history and background of the text, which are useful.  There are also some comments on the influence the text has had, especially on Mao Tse-tung and on the Imperial Japanese forces through World War II.<br />Therefore, I certainly recommend this translation for a first-time reader such as myself.	2003-01-04
US	50762809	RP46T1O5BZ17G	0671741926	818442828	The Mote in God's Eye	Books	4	0	2	N	N	A plausible first contact novel	This is more-or-less a hard science fiction novel, chronicling the first meeting between mankind and an alien race.  The titular Mote in God's eye is a reference to a nebula that looks like a brooding face with an eye (a red supergiant) with a spec of dust in it (a smaller star, and home to the aliens).  Due to the nature of space in the region, the Moties are bottled up in their system, while human beings have built a large empire of multiple star systems.  The humans eventually figure out how to get to the Mote system, and the interaction of the two cultures for the first time is the bulk of the novel.<br />As hard science fiction, the book works fairly well.  The authors invent something called \\"Alderson Points,\\" which are like Buck Rogers's Stargates - points in space where instantaneous travel between distant points is possible.  Likewise, they invent energy shields and weapons for the human spaceships.  These are standard sci fi technologies (although they would have been more inventive in 1974).  The Moties are a more ingenious invention.  However unlikely their physical appearance (they have 3 arms and one ear, for example), their society is well-constructed and logical, yet sufficiently alien.  They are not simply a (non-western) human culture transported into space.<br />The strength of the novel lies in its story.  It sucks you in and gets you involved.  The characters are generally well-written and individual.  The authors spring a couple of surprises on you that come from nowhere and completely change the tenor of the story.  It's a book that is difficult to put down.  To me, it's superior to Le Guin's \\"Dispossessed,\\" which won the Hugo and Nebula that year.<br />There are some minor problems - like most U.S.A. sci fi written in the '70's, it uses an imperial (monarchy) system of government.  The social system is prudish and misogynist - in many ways it seems very quaint and old-fashioned (and therefore unlikely).  These are (very) minor problems, however, and do not detract from the wonder, excitement, and utter confusion caused by first contact.	2002-12-24
US	50762809	R3AKT0JF7QU6N2	0393301982	376038690	The Battle for the Falklands	Books	4	15	16	N	Y	A fast-paced but thorough look, somewhat Anglocentric	The Falkland Islands War was a strange event.  I was only 12 at the time, but even so, I remember thinking it was very unusual that a war could start and end so quickly, between nations you would not consider traditional enemies.  As the authors point out, it was the last of Britains colonial wars - fought maintain prestige more so than because of the worth of the territory.  Argentina invaded the Islands on the assumption that Britain would not fight for them.  Obviously they underestimated the will of the British people, and especially that of the Prime Minister, Margaret Thatcher, who quickly dispatched the largest task force she could muster to reclaim the islands.  This book starts well before the war and explains the colonial situation and the history of Argentina's attempts to win sovreignty over the islands they can the Malvinas.  It then moves to the details of the actual invasion and attempts to rationalise the motives behind the Argentine junta's decision.  The book really hits its stride with the dispatch of the task force and the battles that then took place on land and at sea.<br />The book was written shortly after the end of the war.  Max Hastings is a journalist that accompanied the task force, and brings a level of authenticity that only a first-hand experience can give.  Simon Jenkins's contribution was on the home front, detailing the cabinet and parliamentary discussions and direction of the war.  That these two parts seamlessly mesh is a credit to the editor.<br />Even though there was little time between the end of hostilities and the release of the book, the conclusions of the authors have stood the test of time.  Unfortunately, we will likely never know all the details about the Argentine side (due to the instability of the government at the time), so most of the commentary and description of events is from the point of view of the British forces.  The authors are careful not to \\"cheerlead\\" the British side, and condemn both sides equally for failing to resolve the dispute peacefully.<br />Most importantly, the book is very easy to read, and tells an exciting story besides.  The conclusions are inescapeable - the British won due to superior training, tactics, and motivation of the footsoldier on the ground.  Full marks go to the Argentine Air Force for their spirited conduct during the hostilities, but air power alone cannot win a war.  The authors also blame the situation on the lack of human intellegence (as opposed to signal or satellite intel) that totally missed the imminent threat to the Falklands from Argentina.  They further argue for balanced armed forces because, as we rediscovered on Sept. 11, you never know what kind of threat you will face.  These conclusions are applicable today, which tells for the universality and timelessness of this fine account.	2002-12-13
US	50762809	R3L3Z4OTTGN2B	071674600X	702515564	Radar, Hula Hoops and Playful Pigs: 67 Digestible Commentaries on the Fascinating Chemistry of Everyday Life	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Fun and illuminating for the chemist and non-chemist alike	Dr. Schwarcz is well-known throughout Canada (and especially, the University of McGill in Montreal) as being the consummate chemistry lecturer.  His courses are filled with anecdotes, demonstrations, and humour.  He has translated his infectious interest in chemistry to the written word, and the result is a fascinating book that you will enjoy reading, and likely refer to again and again when someone asks, \\"I wonder why....?\\"  As the title promises, the book is a series of short anecdotes about a variety of chemical subjects.  For example, the titular \\"radar, hula hoops, and playful pigs\\" gives the connection between these three items (airborne radar, hula hoops, and pig playtoys are all made from the same polymer).  The majority of the essays revolve around health, probably reflecting both the author's training (as a carbohydrate chemist) and society's bias.<br />Schwarcz has two underlying, scientific themes.  Science in general, and chemistry in particular, is neither good nor evil - it's the context/use of chemistry that gives a moral distinction.  Likewise, chemical effects are generally driven by amount - arsenic is not poisonous in low enough concentrations, while water is deadly under certain conditions (if inhaled, for example).  The second point is to make the reader a skeptical consumer.  He gives numerous examples of good science vs. bad science - a product trotting out \\"testimonials\\" is not evidence that it will work in all cases (or even in the majority of cases!).  That's not to say the book gets bogged down in details.  His writing style is sharp, witty, and concise.  The book can be picked up and read from any point, and you'll still learn something interesting.<br />I am a chemist, and can assure the chemists considering this book that the science is accurate.  It's not the standard sugar-coated fare that appears on television.  Likewise, a non-scientist will be able to easily understand the material because Schwarcz never resorts to lingo withoutfirst explaining it (for \\"proof\\" I point to my mother, who was an English major in university and who enjoyed the parts of the book she's read).  Therefore, this book can be recommended to the widest audience, and all will find it informative and enjoyable.	2002-11-18
US	50762809	R1VE9QAUHHSZM1	0575601108	158999994	Richter 10	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Too many false stops, but still enjoyable	To clear up any confusion - Arthur C. Clarke wrote a plot synopsis that he wasn't interested in pursuing.  Mike McQuay read the synopsis and fleshed it out into the novel Richter 10.  The novel takes place in the near future.  The story: a geologist named Lewis Crane is obsessed with stopping earthquakes by fusing the Earth's plates together.  To this end, he starts a foundation to predict quakes and render assistance to victims.  He comes into conflict with his own employees and a seperatist group called the Nation of Islam (NOI) led by an African American of great charisma.  One of Crane's men leaves to join the NOI, setting up the main conflict for the remainder of the novel.<br />There are some obvious parallels with real life - for example, the leader of the NOI is obviously based on Elijah Mohammed, while the defecting geologist is similar to (but less influential than) Malcolm X.  The vision of the future is quite dystopic (and overtly racist) - the U.S. government is a puppet for multinational (Chinese) corporations.  However, the novel is not a warning or historical analogy, but simply an adventure story with lots of buildings falling over and tsunamis sweeping people out to sea.<br />On the whole, it is quite enjoyable.  The action is well-written, the technology mostly believable, and the supporting characters well-developed.  Unfortunately, the main characters are generally not likable (until, possibly, in the last 50 pages), so it's hard to develop any kind of sympathy for them.  In addition, the central scientific tool the geologists use - a working scale model of the Earth - is extremely far fetched.  The idea that an earthquake (or any major natural event) could be predicted by a 100-foot model, to an accuracy of a couple of minutes, stretches credulity to the breaking point.  Finally, there are too many Big Moments in the book.  There are at least 3 points where the story reached a logical conclusion, but then went on, basically starting over with anew theme.  It makes the story seem very patchwork, (in the one particular chapter, 10 years pass!)  Sure, it's supposed to be an epic, but it's too choppy.<br />Having said all that, the book is still fun and keeps you interested.	2002-11-02
US	50762809	R1LJ78QSP8S2GB	0446340618	510895886	Time of Changes	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A rebel against a restrictive society, but is it Sci Fi?	I have to concur with a fellow reviewer - there is very little here that is science fiction.  However, the science fiction genre releases the novel from some restrictive bounds and allows Silverberg to fully develop his ideas.  The story: a planet has been settled by what I call \\"Catholic Puritans\\" - religious fundamentalists that believe self-containment and self-effacement are the keys to a stable society.  They retain the idea of confessional (called \\"draining\\") to allow some relief from the totality of self-reliance.  Referring to oneself directly (i.e. use of the pronouns I, we, etc.) is a sin, as well as burdoning someone (other than a Drainer) with any personal problems.<br />Into this society is born Kinnall, a noble.  He meets an Earthman (with no such cultural conditioning) who introduces to him a drug that allows, for a short time, the direct communication between minds.  Kinnall comes to the realisation that to know someone is to truly love him, and sets out to spread his newfound knowledge with the fervor of a prophet, even though it is illegal.<br />The story, while interesting, is not the reason to read the book.  It is a superbly crafted tale, told in the first person by Kinnall, so you come to be immersed in the culture and morals of the society.  The background is so consistently maintained that you feel it is a real place (or, that it could be a real place) and philosophy.<br />This is not really so much a science fiction tale as a parallel tale (rebuttal?) to the sexual revolution of the late '60's.  The technology is similar (for example, they have automobiles), although the government system is more autocratic.  Instead of sex, however, it is friendship and brotherly love that are the revolutionary concepts.  One could argue that such a revolution has not yet occurred on Earth, and we could certainly use it!  This book is not meant to preach, but is an immersing experience that is both enjoyable and a little thought-provoking.	2002-10-22
US	50762809	R3R4L7NDBB1MOK	0321078446	758533805	A Short Guide to Writing about Chemistry (2nd Edition)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	How to read and write chemistry (for the university student)	This book is meant to be a practical guide in reading and writing chemistry.  There are numerous practical tidbits interspersed throughout the book.  There are also exercises (many of which include \\"peer review\\" style discussion among classmates) and numerous examples (both positive and negative).  The topics range from reading the primary literature through writing lab reports and even to giving oral seminars.<br />The authors do a good job straddling the line between keeping the text short (this is a \\"Short Guide\\" after all), while providing the essential kernals of information.  Unfortunately, it reads a bit like a how-to guide for someone trying to get an \\"A\\" grade in their \\"Writing in Chemsitry\\" course.  There is little discussion of format variations (except possibly in the \\"Writing a Research Proposal\\" section) probably not the author's fault, more of a page constraint issue.  However, I would like to have seen less on, say \\"How to keep a freshman lab book\\" (17 pages!) and more on, \\"How to give an oral presentation.\\"  Surely the target audience should be the upper-year student, not the freshman.<br />If the biggest problem is the formulaic presentation, the best aspect is the numerous examples interspersed throughout the book.  I was pleased to note that the examples, at least, are chosen to highlight the differences in scientific opinion that constantly arise and that younger scientists find baffling.  Because science is generally taught as hard facts in high school, there is no indication that science is actually a refining process where theories are put to the test, elevated, or destroyed as work is done to test their validity.  This process is amply demonstrated by the authors, in a wide variety of subdisciplines, all of which are fun to read, even for professors and other chemical professionals.<br />Therefore, I recommend this book for the senior undergraduate and graduate student who wants to refine/develop their scientific writing style.  I'm skeptical about recommending the book to freshmen, in spite of the number of pages devoted to freshman topics, because I'm not as happy with those chapters.	2002-10-14
US	50762809	RAGNJYPZSYO	0380729407	944543338	Something Wicked This Way Comes	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A little dated, but still an eerie page-turner	Two 13-year old boys are the centre of this book, but this is not really a children's book.  In fact, I suspect that the modern 13-year-old would find the philosophising tedious and the action trite.  However, to the older reader (say, high school and up), there is much to recommend the book.  The plot: a carnival arrives in town, unusually late in the season, and a few townspeople disappear.  The two boys investigate and learn that the people who were thought to have disappeared still exist, but in altered form: one has become a wizened dwarf while another has become a little girl.  They discover a carousel that can turn the clock - make you older or younger.  The carnival operators become alarmed by the boys and try to buy them off (by making them \\"grownups\\") or kidnap them.<br />Of course, the plot isn't as important as the atmosphere, which is truly creepy.  Carnivals and freak side-shows are creepy at the best of times, but Bradbury manages to instill dread and darkness into every scene.  The boys eventually enlist one of their fathers, who works at the local library, and who supplies the philosophy in the book.  Naturally it focusses on death and aging, which the carnival's carousel can reverse.<br />The supernatural elements are a nice touch, and unique (I don't think they've been copied).  Especially well-designed is the blind \\"witch\\" that can smell souls - she is essentially the bloodhound that tracks the boys for the carnival's master.<br />The only drawbacks are that the philosophy is a little simplistic (mostly because the father is simplistic) and the notion of a carnival is outdated.  It sounds quaint to modern ears that 13-year-old boys would be this excited about a carnival and its acts.  However, I enjoyed the book, and recommend it to others.	2002-09-27
US	50762809	ROVOVQABBXQBX	0345333926	120812203	Ringworld (A Del Rey book)	Books	3	10	12	N	N	Ingenious, but a flawed masterpiece	Ringworld won the Hugo and the Nebula Awards for best science fiction book of the year.  It also spawned a series of sequels.  The book deserves it - the idea for the Ringworld itself is ingenious.  A ribbon surrounding a star, spinning for centripetal force (i.e. gravity), will have a huge surface area and would support life just as a normal planet (albeit without seasons).  Niven has this world invented by an ancient alien race and sets 4 people out to explore it.  Only 2 of the 4 explorers are human.  The alien explorers are Niven's second great invention.  One is a &quot;Puppeteer,&quot; a herbivorous race whose defining characteristic is its cowardice (they won't do anything unless it's completely safe).  The other is the &quot;Kzin,&quot; fierce, enormous tiger-like carnivors that fought multiple wars with humankind in the past.  The intrepid travellers arrive at the Ringworld, but find no evidence of activity.  They blunder into some automatic defense systems (taking their spaceship for a meteor), and are consequently marooned on the ring.  The story basically follows the quest of the explorers to escape the Ringworld that has apparently suffered a collapse of civilisation.<br />This exploration itself is not really that important; there's little in the travel and exploration that is particularly exciting or inventive.  For adventure through exploration, Clarke's Rendevous with Rama is much better.  Instead, the development of the Puppeteer race and the conflict between the three races of the exploration party contains the bulk of the interest.  In addition, there are some neat but plausible scientific dodges that make Niven's universe believable and open to countless additional opportunities (hence, sequels are likely to be just as good as this book).<br />Unfortunately, the Kzin race is much more standard (think feline Samuri and you have the basic idea).  The main human character is interesting, but his (young, nubile, and female) companion is not.  Niveninvents the idea that luck is a hereditary trait (inherited by this young woman), and allows the 4 travellers to be tossed about by the whims of her so-called luck/fate.  While it's convenient to move the plot along, it adds a sense of artificial contrivance that the book would do better without.  She could have been useful as the voice of inexperience (therefore someone to whom the reader could relate) who needed various scientific or social themes explained; instead she is uninterested and flakey, so serves no purpose (except to move the plot).<br />I do recommend this book.  The 3-star level is less than it deserves.  It doesn't quite make it to 4-star status, in spite of its ingenious inventions, mostly because the plot feels linear and contrived in spite of the wonder.  It is reminiscent of Farmer's &quot;Riverworld&quot; series, but much more plausible and better written.	2002-09-20
US	50762809	R1VG7NOIXU8UG1	0471185175	521419828	Broadsides: The Age of Fighting Sail, 1775-1815	Books	3	14	14	N	Y	A good book, with some weird flaws	Nathan Miller is one of those authors who is immediately believable as an historian due to the detail and care with which he writes his books.  At the same time, his books are emminently readable because he cuts through to the heart of the matter and has a concise, exciting style.  This book is a nice addition to my naval library, and I anticipate referring to it often.<br />The writing style is definitely the highlight of the book, although there are other items to recommend it.  First is the inclusion of a number of lesser-known naval battles that are often omitted.  Everyone does Trafalgar and the Nile, but few general histories include the U.S.'s war with Tripoli or pre-Nelsonian battles in the Napoleonic Wars (because most were inconclusive).  Because of the short time frame of the book - a mere 40 years - these lesser-known actions are covered.  At the same time, this book does not read as a catalogue of battles, but a smooth narrative in which these battles naturally occur.  Additionally, there is enough detail about the background story (land battles, politics, etc.) that each battle is firmly placed in context.  Finally, the personalities of the men (and even some women) that did the fighting comes through, not just the admirals but occasionally the ordinary crewmembers as well.<br />Unfortunately, there are some problems with the book, starting with the time frame.  The first few chapters, detailing the Continental Navy and the American Revolution, are not good.  They seem tacked on (possibly to sell more books in the U.S.?), and do not have the same flow as subsequent chapters.  It should have started later (perhaps the French revolution?), or a lot earlier (although then it would be a different book).  Secondly, Miller has a grating habit of rooting for one side - either the U.S. or Britain, as the case may be.  Since history is written by the victor, there is a natural pro-British bias in the details of Napoleonic naval battles, for example, but Miller's style gives the appearance that he's rooting for the British at the same time.  An example: &quot;The British and French ships had the same number of cannon, but fortunately the British had better training.&quot;  This is only &quot;fortunate&quot; if you were on the British ship!  This kind of insidious cheerleading is especially bad at the beginning of the book, in the aforementioned &quot;tacked-on&quot; chapters, where the pro-U.S. bias is very irritating.<br />Therefore, I recommend this book as a detailed and very readable account of the Napoleonic (and conincident) Wars, as long as you can get through the less well-written early chapters.	2002-09-09
US	50762809	R3A7G7L2N7UGI9	0812565959	882430933	Shadow of the Hegemon (The Shadow Series)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	A definite page-turner, if a little unbelievable at times	Finally, the long downward spiral of the Ender series (soon to be renamed the \\"Wiggin\\" series? - Ender never appears in this book) has been halted, and we have a truly entertaining page-turner.  While Xenocide was less enjoyable than Speaker for the Dead, and Children of the Mind less enjoyable again, this second book in the \\"Shadow\\" subseries is definitely better than the first.  Returning from the Battle School to an Earth that is once again fighting with itself, the young men and women who won the Formic War are in high demand to plan strategy for the nations bent on world domination - in this future universe, they are India, China, Russia, and Brazil.  Achilles, Bean's arch-nemesis from Ender's Shadow, has re-emerged as a mastermind bent on world domination.  As his first step he kidnaps a number of Ender's former army-mates and sequesters them in Russia, in addition to trying to kill Bean.  Bean escapes and enlists the help of Ender's brother Peter.  The stage is then set for a battle of wits between the schemes of Achilles, aided by his captured Battle School graduate, and Bean and Peter.<br />The action is furious and fast paced.  Card's vision of the future is an interesting one - he sees the United States as growing complacent and lethargic, existing only to cater to markets for their trade goods (I'm sure political scientists could read all sorts of hidden meaning into Card's statements on the U.S. in this future history).  The politics he creates are nicely interwoven, and are believable.  He continues to emphasise the folly of arrogant adult leaders, as compared to the non-linear thinking possible only of the young and irrepresible.  It's to Card's credit that he doesn't get bogged down in details (like Children of the Mind) but lets his characters inhabit their future world as if it really exists.  We learn about it simply through inhabiting the same space while we are reading the story.<br />There are a few problems.  It is a little simplistic in its portrayal of military affairs (especially when compared to a Tom Clancy book, for example) - there is little here that is innovative (socially or in military equipment), and the diplomacy practiced by the main protagonist countries is laughable.  That Achilles can so easily manipulate the governments of these powerful nations is a serious strain on plausibility.  However, none of these points detract unfavourably from the overall story, which is well-paced and thoroughly enjoyable.  While not as good as Speaker for the Dead, easily the best book in the Ender series, it is very good and a worthy addition to the Wiggin Saga.	2002-08-19
US	50762809	RHWCSW8OW07E2	0684818868	458361116	Lies My Teacher Told Me : Everything Your American History Textbook Got Wrong	Books	5	14	23	N	Y	A fascinating rebuttal to feel-good high school history	\\"When I look back on all the crap I learned in high school,<BR> It's a wonder I can think at all\\"<br />Thus spake Paul Simon (\\"Kodachrome\\"), and you'd think James Loewen took his cue from Mr. Simon.  Here is a compendium of what's wrong with education in the United States in general, and history in particular.  Of course, much of the western world shares similar problems, but this book focusses on U.S. history, as told by Junior and Senior High School texts.  Loewen selects specific aspects of U.S. history, from hero worship of Columbus to treatment of the Vietnam war, and picks apart the flagrant errors and omissions that demonstrate textbooks are written as feel-good exercises for white, affluent teenage boys, but presented in such a dull way that even they don't like it.<br />As currently taught, high school history boils down to memorising dates and factoids about a wide range of people and places in U.S. history.  Very little is done to form a unifying view of history.  For example, Loewen focusses on race, pointing out that texts discuss the Civil Rights movement of the '60's in a void without reference to Woodrow Wilson's policy of segregation or, further back, slavery.  Instead, it is presented as a feel-good exercise: \\"We're the greatest country in the world because of all the problems we've fixed.\\" Of course, everything is not okay - people of colour still make less money than whites, for example.<br />If slavery is the \\"original sin\\" of the United States, the aftereffects are still lingering even today.  Unfortunately, as Loewen points out, high school history is taught as \\"Some great men (not women!) saw a problem, they fixed it, now everything is fine.\\"  How then, can history be relevant to addressing inequalities in the world today?  Students become passive sponges, considering history dead and irrelevant.  Only the \\"great\\" can make a difference, so why bother trying?  Instead, history courses should create critical thinkers, surely of great importancein a democracy.  Wouldn't it be helpful to point out that Washington and Jefferson had slaves?  That Columbus formed Nazi-esque work camps of Arawaks and forced them to mine gold for the Spanish?  Current problems could be put into perspective, and the students could have a reasonable chance of facing them with confidence.<br />There's no point in hiding the past from our students, especially those in high school.  They have access to the internet, to libraries, to modern music and films, and they know that the history they learn in school doesn't match with these other sources, or their own observations.  The time has come to be more realistic in our portrayal of history, and Loewen points the way in this provocative, yet entertaining and informative book.	2002-08-11
US	50762809	R3JZYY437NCKPG	0345340396	381425797	Red Planet (A Del Rey book)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Dated, yes, but fun and interesting nonetheless	It is common consensus among sci fi writers that Mars will someday become colonised.  It is not a stretch to predict that the first colonists will be soldiers or employees of a multinational corporation, and will take orders from their leaders on Earth.  Eventually, however, as the number of settlers grows, they will demand some sort of autonomy.  Based on human history, this is a logical train of thought, which various writers have turned into highly successful novels (e.g. Greg Bear and Kim Stanley Robinson).  These modern works are linear descendents of this fine early Heinlein work.<br />Red PLanet follows the story of two teenage boys as they discover a plot by the multinational corporation that runs Mars (an oddly prophetic villain for a book written in 1949!) to restrict the rights of the free settlers.  The book then chronicles the settlers' response as they fight for their &quot;historic&quot; rights.  There is a subplot surrounding some Martian natives.  All in all, it is a fun read, especially compared to Heinlein's other &quot;juvenile&quot; novel.<br />Of particular interest are the Martians and the politics of the human settlements.  The Martians are eerily similar to those in &quot;Stranger in a Strange Land,&quot; which is enough to interest any Heinlein fan.  The politics are rather broadly painted (as expected for a juvenile book), and the settlers are the usual Heinlein heroes - gun-toting, freedom loving, all-American cowboys - but detailed enough for a modern adult to appreciate the historical analogy.  Having said that, the book is heavily dated, especially in its &quot;Leave It to Beaver&quot; portrayal of women (ignoring Heinlein's own country's proud tradition of hardy pioneer women!).  However, they are not fatal flaws, and I found myself flipping pages as quickly as I would with any modern Crichton or Clancy novel.	2002-07-29
US	50762809	R4RU5OMJRVUEC	067187618X	381849934	Man Plus	Books	3	2	4	N	N	A nifty premise, but underdeveloped	Man Plus is the story of a project to adapt (a) man to be able to live on Mars.  Thus, this man would have to be able to survive in a carbon dioxide atmosphere, at very low pressure, and be able to extract water and oxygen from the soil.  In addition, the extreme temperatures would have to be overcome.  Pohl proposes that such a man would have to be extensively modified with robotics (creating a cyborg) - a modern writer might use genetic enngineering - with the result that the Man Plus of the title scarcely resembles a human by the time he's fully modified.<br />The strength of the book is the scientific setup - some of the problems of creating such a cyborg are addressed, from both the physical and emotional points of view.  It's fascinating to watch the creation of the Man Plus - Pohl obviously put a lot of thought into the process and what should be involved.<br />Unfortunately, the use of this new creature is inadequate.  At 270 pages, there's not a lot of room for detail, and the end of the book seems very rushed.  A lot of that precious space is also used up in describing a future world where communism has taken over all of Eurasia and a virtual state of war exists between these states and the United States.  From our post-Cold War viewpoint, it seems quaint, and I can't help being impatient with it.  There is a crisis at the end that is artificial and is never explained (perhaps it was a &quot;teaser&quot; for a future sequel?), and there is far too much of the soap opera lives of some of the scientists.  Therefore, I give the book 3 stars on the strength of its novel idea and care of implementation, the other 2 stars are lost because it doesn't follow through particularly well.	2002-06-19
US	50762809	R2HTSEIOKKQQ3O	0340639911	96804256	Highlanders: A History of the Gaels	Books	3	13	18	N	N	An easy read, but loses interest in the latter half	This book covers over 1000 years of history in the Highlands region of Scotland.  As is implied by the title, this is a people's history - there is no geological/natural history of the Highlands, except where the land has been used/altered by man.  The first portions of the book are fascinating, detailing the early immigration to the west coast and islands of Scotland, the coming of missionaries, Vikings, the union of Scotland under one crown in Edinburgh, and, of course, the uprising led by Bonnie Prince Charlie.  Unfortunately, I found myself losing interest in the latter half of the book, with its heavy focus on church squabbling.  While undoubtedly of importance in understanding the &quot;Highlands Problem,&quot; it could have been dealt with in a more expedient manner, without the enumeration of every schism that occurred.<br />The title is perhaps mileading.  It is, in fact, a history of the people in the Highlands (and those in England, Norway, etc. that directly affected the Highlanders).  Therefore, the book focusses on the people of this area of Scotland, while essentially ignoring the history of the people who immigrated there in the first place (from Ireland, Scandenavia, etc.), or the people that emigrated (to Canada, Australia, etc.) from the Highlands in later years.  The author even points out that early in the 1900's, there were four times the number of Gaelic speakers in Nova Scotia than there were in the Highlands - surely some stories of these pioneers deserve treatment in the book titled &quot;A History of the Gaels.&quot;<br />Finally, the maps are woefully inadequate.  There are some political maps, but they do not include the locations of many of the towns mentioned in the narrative, and virtually none of the castles.  Further, they are scattered throughout the book with no reference to them in the text, further adding to the difficulty in referencing them.<br />The strength of the book is certainly the readability.  The first half is fantastic.  The second half is only okay, as it seems to belabour certain issues to the point where the reader loses interest.  It's certainly an adequate (and modern - published in 1997) entry for anyone interested in the history of the Highlands' peoples, with enough details to further educate those with a more intimate knowledge of the Highlands.	2002-06-14
US	50762809	R3FXPJRIMKIWPK	0425167054	318773128	The Tick: Mighty Blue Justice	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	This book is nigh-invulnerable!	However, my cat did get at one corner and chew it up in one of her chew-toy phases.....<br />Here, collected into one shiney red volume, is nigh-everything you needed to know about the Tick.  All of his wit, wonder, and convoluted logic.  Here also is Arthur's angst, American Maid's shoe specs, the occasional appearance by the always well-groomed Die Fladermaus, and a liberal helping of everyone's 2nd favourite super-villain, the Evil Midnight Bomber What Bombs at Midnight.  Of course, our favourite villain is the Man Eating Cow, but she doesn't talk.<br />The book is full of illustrations and little bubbles with useful Tick-isms.  There are bios on all the Tick's superhero friends, as well as his supervillain nemeses.  Most helpful is Arthur's casebook, chronicling his and the Tick's adventures battling crime in The City (this is essentially an episode guide of the animated TV series).<br />Unfortunately, there is little new here that isn't in the TV shows.  However, it's a great book for the coffee table, one where you can start and stop reading anywhere and find something funny.  Anyone entertained by the show will definitely like this book.	2002-05-20
US	50762809	R1EYG80I8CRMV3	0441056121	122186528	Beyond the Fall of Night	Books	2	30	30	N	N	Clarke's half = 4 stars, Benford's half = 0 stars	Arthur C. Clarke was the man who popularised the term &quot;the technology of an advanced culture will be indistinguishable from magic.&quot;  The best science fantasy writers know this - George Lucas and Asimov make no attempt to explain lightsabres or positronic brains.  And Clarke, of course, makes no attempt to explain the technology of an isolated Earth city 2 billion (or thereabouts) years into the future.  Instead, the first half of this book gives us an entertaining and light voyage through a society stagnated by immortality and robot-assisted ease.  When Alvin, the first child born in thousands of years, rebels against this society, we are taken along for the ride.  He learns that his city of Diaspar is not the only community left on the planet, and he makes further discoveries that are fun to read about.<br />This part of the book is a reprint of Clarke's Against the Fall of Night, which was written early in his career and shows it.  It is fast paced (perhaps to a fault), and we're surprised at the naivete of all the characters at one time or another.  However, it's fun for a light read and recommended.<br />The second half, written by Benford, is supposed to be a sequel, but bears absolutely no resemblance to Clarke's work.  There are a number problems.  Firstly, only 2 characters from Clarke's work survive, and they are relegated to supporting roles.  Secondly, Benford makes the mistake of focussing on technology that is built 2 billion years in the future.  This technology is used to fight the superbeing known as the Mad Mind, an energy-based species without physical form, but it's inherently silly to pit airplanes against a mental force.  Finally, the &quot;good&quot; mentalic creature, Vanamonde, is ignored, even though its purpose from the first story is to fight the Mad Mind.<br />Thus, as a sequel, Benford's work is a disaster.  Unfortunately, read on its own merits, it is no better.  The main character is chased around and exposed to situations she doesn't understand, and she grows angry and frustrated at her experiences.  We, as readers, share her anger and frustration.  In the end, all that happens to her is a tour through the solar system.  It's a whirlwind tour, however, so we are simply bombarded with images and it becomes boring.<br />I can generally rate books based on how long it takes to read them.  The first half took a few days.  The second half took a few weeks.  Even television was more interesting!  Therefore, the only reason to buy this book is if you can't find Against the Fall of Night by itself.  If that's the case, I implore you - stop at the end of part 1!	2002-05-12
US	50762809	RPRZNW859EONX	0140096507	169053954	The Price of Admiralty: The Evolution of Naval Warfare from Trafalgar to Midway	Books	4	16	20	N	Y	An insightful look at 4 important naval battles	John Keegan has turned his formidable talent to analysing some of the most famous naval battles of the last 200 years.  For each, he gives an insightful look into the recent history of the times, emphasising technological aspects of ship handling and weapons.  He then breaks down the battles into easy-to-comprehend chunks, followed by an analysis of the consequences (usually political) and the more immediate cost in terms of the sailors and ships involved.<br />While all 4 battles are famous examples of their type, Keegan seems to waffle between choosing battles that were decisive and those that were stalemates.  Trafalgar was a decisive battle, but it was unusual in the Age of Sail that one navy enjoyed such a complete victory over its enemy.  Alternatively, Jutland was a large battle, but the battle itself was a tactical draw in that both sides left the battle with their proportionate strengths intact.  A far more decisive ironclad battle occurred at Tsushima Bay, so why didn't Keegan choose that (admitedly less famous) battle instead?<br />The remaining two battles are from WWII - Midway and the Battle of the Atlantic.  Midway was a clear U.S. victory, and the purest example of carrier-based naval conflict.  The Battle of the Atlantic was ultimately decisive as well, but due to the seesaw of technological advancess, the outcome was very much in doubt for 4 years.  Although the submarines lost the Battle of the Atlantic, Keegan concludes submarines are the ultimate naval weapon available today, and points to the success of the U.S. submarine offensive against Japan.  If that is his conclusion, why not give an account of the Japan-U.S. conflict instead of the Battle of the Atlantic?<br />This is nitpicking, however.  The strength of the book is the masterful analysis of each individual battle.  While I question the overall theme and choice of battles, each chapter in and of itself is fantastic.  Therefore, it gets 4 stars, as it is inferior to Keegan's Face of Battle and Mask of Command in maintaining an overarching theme.	2002-04-26
US	50762809	R4YGO5G8L46T7	1894413067	527006473	Buying and Selling a Home for Canadians for Dummies	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Helpful for the first-time homebuyer	The success of the Dummies series is to supply information to the beginner, but at a pace and level that does not dumb down the material.  This book, Buying a Home for Dummies, successfully takes the new home-seeker through the process of buying a house.  It is written by 3 Canadians, and is obviously not just a rehash of the U.S. version.  <br />Included are suggestions and hints on finding a real estate agent and lawyer, differences between house-hunting and condo-hunting, things to look for in a house (location, size, age, etc.), and budgeting give an idea of what you can afford.  There are a number of helpful regional tips included as well - obviously someone looking for a house in Thunder Bay or Edmonton will care more about heating bills than someone in Victoria or Windsor.  There is also a section on selling a first house, so you can keep this book on the shelf until the time comes when you're selling.<br />The most helpful aspects of the book deal with the mechanics of home purchase.  There are a lot of new words to be learned, and they are helpfully gathered in a glossary in the back, as well as being fully explained in context in the text.  A discussion on mortgages has the danger of becoming very dull very quickly, something this book manages to avoid by including examples and an efficient writing style.<br />The only thing I didn't like is the emphasis on big cities - since the authors are from Vancouver and Toronto, they know big cities best, but the underlying theme of the book is based on big cities in active markets.  While it's true that Halifax, Calgary, etc. are in a real estate booms right now, many readers of this book (including myself) are going to be from smaller markets, so many of the tricks and advice don't apply.  Other than that, it's an excellent introduction to house (and condo) hunting, and we have found it very useful in our first experience in the real estate market.	2002-04-15
US	50762809	RJ888NV9W2945	0441569595	769194143	Neuromancer	Books	2	42	77	N	N	Undoubtedly influencial, but annoying to read	When a book introduces a new sub-genre, it obviously has ideas that are new, fresh, and exciting.  However, on hindsight, Neuromancer is flawed in many ways.  Clearly the whole cyberpunk genre arose from this book (just look at modern dystopic movies and computer games that borrow liberally from Gibson's language and plot points).  For this reason, I would recommend the book.  In addition, the story is actually quite good.  Although I normally don't like or believe in futures this pessimistic, Gibson gave his world a kind of logic that allows belief.<br />Unfortunately, he then destroys the credibility at key points in the narrative.  It is deeply irritating to me when an author sets up a self-consistent, logical (even scientific) world, and then decides (s)he likes an image or idea so much that it must be included, even if physically/scientifically impossible (Samuel Delany is the worst transgressor of this offense).  I found myself rereading a number of passages in disbelief before concluding that yes, Gibson was indeed defying one law of physics while rigorously adhering to others at the same time.  In addition, Gibson kept introducing new concepts and words invented from thin air, when there are perfectly acceptable words in use today.  Okay, so he's trying to invent a new slang, but nowhere are the new words defined.  You learn them from context, but the context may be several chapters away.<br />Gibson's narrative laziness crops up in his use of pronouns as well - there are passages that are simply incomprehensible because the author refers to all the characters (even those fighting each other) by pronouns.  A typical passage would be something like: &quot;She burst into the room just as she was getting up from the table.&quot;  Is the person bursting into the room and the person getting up from the table the same?  And if so, isn't it physically impossible to do both things at the same time?  Thus, it was with mounting irritation that I approached the climaxto the story.<br />Therefore, while I can recommend this book on an historical basis, or because it has an interesting plot (and the occasional interesting character), I do so with serious reservations due to the infuriatingly lazy writing style.	2002-04-06
US	50762809	R34I4NP9M37KOI	0140275142	211932010	Desert War: The North African Campaign 1940-1943	Books	4	23	24	N	Y	A personal history of the desert war (emphasis on personal)	Alan Moorehead was a war correspondent who covered most of the 3-year desert campaign in North Africa in World War II.  Therefore, he saw the war at first hand, sometimes coming under fire himself (usually from aircraft), sometimes getting lost in the vast desert, sometimes missing key events because his reporter's intuition led him astray.  Although he was not usually on the front line, he did manage to get into towns within hours of their liberation.  He had interviews with the general staff of the (British and U.S.) armies and a good grasp on the overall strategic vision of the campaign, from the Allies' point of view.<br />The writing quality is top-notch, especially descriptions of the burnt out and fought-over towns and countryside.  You get a good flavour for the conditions the troops fought in and for the bravery and resilience shown by the soldiers.  There are a number of very interesting sidelights to the action, highlighting the difficulties encountered in trying to report the war.<br />Unfortunately, there are a number of quibbles that detract from a 5-star rating.  This book is not a &quot;definitive&quot; history of the war - it was written too soon and from a purely Allied point of view.  It is undoubtedly biased - he constantly makes excuses for the Allied generals' failings to deliver a knock-out blow to the Axis, especially blaming the long supply line from England (neglecting the fact that half of the Axis' supplies were sunk in the Mediterranean).  He refuses to admit the Allied forces were consistently outgeneralled by Rommell, blaming the British training and internal organisation instead, first claiming the generals could not change it (bureaucratic inertia), then applauding Montgomery for changing it quickly.  There's distracting (and long) digressions from the front, especially a trip through India and a vacation to the U.S.  While the politics of Indian independence are interesting in their own right, they are complex and require an historical context so they couldn't be developed properly.  Finally, there is no background material - the author assumes at least a passing knowledge of the people and politics of the day, so it might be frustrating for a beginner.  The maps are generally quite good, however, so geographical mastery of the area is not necessary.<br />Therefore, I recommend this book as a personal snapshot of the attitudes and actions of the Allied armies in the desert campaigns of WWII.  As such, it is clearly biased, but the quality of the writing and the descriptions overcomes this difficulty.	2002-03-26
US	50762809	RFC4I10WZBFWY	0764550519	186526958	Bartending For Dummies (For Dummies (Lifestyles Paperback))	Books	5	8	9	N	N	An excellent reference, especially for cocktail recipes	This book is by no means a definitive work on bartending.  However, it is a good mix of information, in a well-packaged format.  There are tips on everything from setting up a home bar to types of glasses to, of course, an extensive recipe list of cocktails.  There are a number of suggestions on saving money, because no home bar is going to have everything - the author points out the most common spirits and liquors you're likely to need for entertaining an average group of people, arranged by cost and numbers of guests.<br />The recipes are the heart of the book, with over 1000 different drinks.  About half are shot recipes.  There are also numerous variations on classics such as the margarita and the martini.  These recipes include serving suggestions; for example, mint juleps should be served in metal glasses and proper preparation of a glass for a Bloody Caesar/Mary (rimmed with celery salt and lemon juice).  The recipes are listed alphabetically by name, and there is an extensive index in the back by liquor type that is very helpful.  Unfortunately, it is not cross-listed, so you'll find yourself flipping back and forth between the index and detailed recipes when looking for new drinks to try, for which you have all the ingredients.  There are also some recipes that are well-known to me that are missing from the book (most notably the Freight Train - Grand Marnier and Jack Daniels - or is this a Canadian drink that is uncommon in the U.S.?).<br />Finally, a word on what is not included in the book.  While there are little blurbs on Scotch, wines, etc. (how they are made, some suggested common brands, etc.), there is very little on these types of alcohol, except where they are also used in a mixed drink.  Of course, wines and Scotches are such big areas in their own right that they have their own \\"Dummies\\" books.	2002-03-18
US	50762809	R35VMMCJ8MJ5I	0671877046	92373266	Glory Road	Books	2	4	10	N	N	Heinlein meets Tolkien	This book is Heinlein's fantasy novel, and on the level of pure adventure, it works.  Oscar, the hero, is a Vietnam (?) vet who meets a woman, Star, on a beach in France.  It turns out Star is on a quest throughout the \\"20 universes\\" to get the \\"Egg of the Phoenix\\" from the baddies who stole it from her.  The treasure item is a McGuffin, of course; the point of the story is the journey and the adventure that develops.  Our heroes have to make this journey across a few different planets, linked by stargates, and must battle monsters and foreign social customs along the way.<br />As a pure adventure, the story works.  Some plot devices are contrived (they must use bows and arrows on one world because firearms are illegal, but if they are killing all the creatures they meet, why does it matter?), but the sword and bow-play is fun and exciting.  Unfortunately, the dialogue is so clumsy that if spoken, it would cause the listener to cringe.  In addition, pages at a time are devoted to pointless dialogue or illogical explanations.  Especially bad is the interaction between the hero and the woman - without divulging any secrets, she has a high position in her planet's hierarchy, yet she meekly submits herself to the hero, apparently because he's the man (this is only noteworthy because Heinlein seems to go out of the way to be \\"feminist\\").  Finally, the last 80 pages or so drag out rather pointlessly and should have been cut in favour of \\"and they lived happily ever after.\\"<br />Overall, the problem is that this is one of Heinlein's juvenile novels in plot and dialogue, but can't be marketed as such because there's too much talk about sex.  The author goes off on tangents in social commentary, but they are shallow and severely dated, without the same insightfulness of Starship Troopers or Stranger in a Strange Land.  Therefore, as a juvenile novel, packaged as a pure adventure story, the book would have rated 4/5.  As an adult novel with the clumsy social commentary thrownin, it drops to 2/5.	2002-02-25
US	50762809	R4BKDDDTTGHHD	0841232482	887177346	Chemistry and Science Fiction (American Chemical Society Publication)	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	An interesting collection of essays on SF and chemistry	Chemistry is the poor cousin to biology and physics when it comes to scientific portrayals in science fiction.  Even Isaac Asimov with his degree in biochemistry had a tendency to neglect his roots when writing in the SF genre.  However, as the &quot;central science,&quot; it's inevitable that chemistry will crop up frequently, even if it's not the central focus of the story.  This book contains a number of essays that point out the chemistry in science fiction stories ranging from Wells and Conan Doyle to Star Trek.<br />The book starts with a general overview of SF from Connie Willis, the only professional author to contribute to the book.  This is a nice chapter that categorises the use of science in SF (use as plot device vs. subject vs. metaphor, etc.).<br />There are two general types of articles - those dealing with a particular story/author/series, and those that deal more generally with a topic.  I found the latter more interesting (especially the chapter entitled &quot;Planetary Chemistry in 100 Years of SF&quot;), although there were fewer of those.  The ubiquitos Star Trek franchise pops up as the subject of two chapters, as well as an analysis of Sherlock Holmes' use of chemistry.  Naturally, these chapters are much more rewarding if you've seen the Trek episodes or read the Holmes stories (which I have).  I found the sections on the TV show &quot;Dr. Who&quot; and the book &quot;Gravity's Rainbow&quot; to be ponderous and uninteresting, but I suspect it's because I don't know the original source material.<br />Since all the chapters are written by chemists, the chemical analysis is generally quite good.  The authors are lenient in forgiving obvious chemical errors, something I would not be so inclined to do.<br />The book ends with some discussion on using SF as a classroom resource to increase interest in the sciences (and chemistry in particular).  Unfortunately, this is directed to the university level, where it's too late to attract students to thesciences (this must be done at the grade 9 level, or even earlier).  I think the best audience for this book would be for students training to be science teachers in the public school system.  Although it's getting a little out of date (science teachers today use ER and CSI: Crime Scene Investigation, not The Next Generation and Asimov), it should give budding science teachers a number of good ideas for improving interest in science in their students.<br />Thus, this book is an enjoyable read for anyone that has an interest in both science fiction and chemistry, especially if you're an educator.	2002-02-18
US	50762809	R3VQASEKX406Q6	0446676640	560531694	The Snow Queen	Books	2	14	19	N	N	A nice setting, with (unfortunately) weak storytelling	The Snow Queen rules over one of the more interesting worlds that has been invented in Science Fiction.  First, it is located close to a black hole (used for faster-than-light travel), but is only accessible at certain times, due to the stars orbiting the singularity.  Secondly, the oceans of the planet contain a unique species, whose blood contains a lifetime-lengthening chemical (virus) that cannot be replicated anywhere else.  The Snow Queen, named Arienrhod, trades the &quot;water of life&quot; for the technology her planet needs.  The suppliers of the technology do their best to keep Arienrhod's people technologically ignorant to maintain their bargaining position.  Further tension is added by Arienrhod's plotting to maintain her rule past &quot;The Change,&quot; when the stargate closes and the people of the planet choose a new queen.<br />To me, this was a terrific setup, with a wealth of possibilities.  The racial conflict between the indiginous races on the planet, and even between the offworlders from different planets is well executed, if simplistic.  Unfortunately, the details of the story are poorly carried through.  You cannot develop sympathy for most of the characters (the police prefect is a notable exception) because they seem to shift their personalities at the whim of the plot.  In addition, the writing is turgid - the subtitle could have been &quot;flogging a dead horse,&quot; the author repeats herself so often.  A more ruthless editor could easily have saved this novel by cutting 100-150 pages (of 450 or so).  The end is especially bad, adding new motivations for the characters from nowhere, seemingly just to fill more pages.<br />I am probably being harsher on the book than I should be.  That is because with such a promising premise it was hard to read the morass that the story sunk into, and to accept the lack of strength of the main characters.	2002-02-03
US	50762809	R2F4X14M55PP8J	0679767819	664674670	The Demolished Man	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A worthy winner of the 1st ever Hugo	By a coincidence of timing, this book was written just in time to win the first ever Hugo Award.  On hindsight, it is a worthy choice.  This is the story of a world where a small group of people have ESP; they belong to a guild designed to police themselves and to use their powers for good.  In such a world, murder is generally stopped before it can occur - as soon as you have murderous intent, your thoughts betray you to the vigilant Esper society.<br />Enter Ben Reich, one of the (2) richest, most powerful men in the solar system.  He wants to murder his main rival, and the book first follows his story of how he tries to get away with it.  He starts by enlisting his own Esper to run interference for him, and by learning an annoying advertisement jingle to fill his conscious mind and distract the mind-readers.  Once the murder is committed, we switch to the Esper police investigator trying to prosecute the crime.  He knows Reich has done it, but the problem is finding objective proof, as Esper testimony based on mind-reading is inadmissible.  This sets up a stragetgic game of move and counter-move between the two adversaries.<br />The book is enjoyable to read - it has an optimistic, yet realistic tone.  There are slums and some Espers try to use their powers for personal gain, but on the whole the society is lawful and the people are prosperous.  You feel comfortable in the world, and that helps you get on with the intricacies of the story.  Others have mentioned that it's a little dated, and heavily emphasises a Freudian view of the mind.  That's true, but it's still fun to read, and is much less dated than, say, Heinlein books of the same vintage, because it deals with primeval instincts more than technological advances.<br />Thus, I feel this book has stood the test of time, and is still worthy of another look (or a first look, if you haven't yet read it).	2002-01-13
US	50762809	R3EY7J62DCUFB	0671024256	44310359	On Writing: A Memoir of the Craft	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The self-aware writer	Stephen King is a fascinating man, and I enjoy hearing his opinions, watching interviews on TV, etc.  Unfortunately, I do not care much for his fiction; that is because of his choice of plots, not the quality of his writing.  Fortunately, his memoir On Writing focusses on the tools of writing that cross all the subgenres of fiction.  Any aspiring writer will benefit from this book.<br />Two themes crop up continuously, and these are very valuable pieces of wisdom to aspiring writers: 1. Read a lot.  Paradoxically, the more you read, the less likely you are to duplicate another's ideas and find a style/story all your own.  2. Edit mercilessly.  King is especially critical of adverbs (yes, I am aware of the irony in including an adverb in this sentence!), telling writers to expunge them everywhere.  Just like editting a film, everything that isn't critical to the story should be eliminated.  This is difficult for young writers to do, but the sooner they learn to be critical of their own writing, the better.<br />Also included is a brief biography of King himself.  Like a number of other famous writers, illness played a key role in his childhood; in addtion, such factors as unpleasant sitters, an impoverished family life, and a brother with a 160 IQ helped influence King's writing.  The bio is interesting and illuminating, but not as useful as the technical parts of the book.<br />Thus, I would recommend this to anyone as an interesting and thought-provoking examination of the craft of writing, whether or not you are an aspiring writer.  While the focus is primarily on contemporary, non-scientific fiction, most of the advice offered is good for all fiction writers (and often for those writing non-fiction as well).	2002-01-07
US	50762809	R1Q07JFA0IOVBH	0425180964	225323965	The Bear and the Dragon (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	4	0	3	N	N	Typical Clancy - a page-turning techno-adventure	The most fundamental questions to ask when reviewing are (I think), &quot;Did I enjoy the book? Did I neglect TV for the book? Did I rush through household chores to get back to the book?&quot;  The answer to all three of these questions is a resounding &quot;yes!&quot; for this latest Jack Ryan offering from Mr. Clancy.  The king of the techno-adventure is back in spades, offering up some high-tech wizardry that may not be exactly true, but will almost certainly be in the near future.  In addition, we have some good old fashioned action and intrigue.<br />The book is about a war between China and Russia.  We see the war coming a long time before the characters in the book do, because we have access to all sides of the conflict.  It's fascinating to see Clancy maeuver his characters and countries into a position where war is inevitable.  The battle itself is mildly disappointing in its detail (compared to, say, Red Storm Rising), but here is where we get to see nifty gizmos at work.  Do they really exist?  I'm inclined to believe most do, in a highly classified research lab somewhere.<br />Others have complained that the novel is less realistic than his others.  I have to agree, but for different reasons than they offer.  Red October and Clear and Present Danger, for example, were more interesting because they were highly plausible &quot;could be&quot; tales at the time.  Unfortunately, the Ryan universe has a life of its own now, and Clancy is maintaining his own consistency with a timeline that is increasingly remote from &quot;real life.&quot;  The U.S. didn't have a mass-murdering plague and didn't fight a war with Japan in real life, but did in the Ryan universe.  It seems to me that it's time for Clancy to retire this timeline and get back to more realistic scenarios.  Finally, the book seems more overtly racist than his past efforts, which is a little disturbing.<br />So, overall, the book rates 4 stars - it was hard to put down, but the Jack Ryan universe isunfortunately running out of steam.	2002-01-03
US	50762809	R8BLLIW91EDH0	0020248717	822313929	Way Station (A Collier Nucleus Science Fiction Classics)	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Good while it lasts, but too short to develop real interest	The premise of the book is that there is an enormous variety of lifeforms in the galaxy, which have banded together in a loose federation.  Transportation is controlled by &quot;Galactic Central&quot; and proceeds through the titular way stations - much like Star Trek's transporters except there must be a pad at each end for transport to work.  Earth is in a convenient location for a station but mankind is not ready to join the galactic community; an alien arrives to seek out a stationkeeper, one willing to keep the secret and avoid much human contact.  Enoch Wallace is the alien's choice, and this novel is Enoch's story.<br />The story takes place (and was written) at the height of the cold war.  The interesting parts involve Enoch's interaction with the aliens that pass through the station, and with the few other humans he comes in contact with.  Simak (the author) obviously put some thought into the variety of alien forms.  He wisely avoids explaining too much about the working of alien minds and the alien technology, instead focussing on the human's impressions and speculations, including his hopes for the human race (if they can survive the politics of their leaders).<br />Unfortunately, the length of the book (under 200 pages) precludes details.  There are a couple of subplots that are silly to the point of irritation, such as the &quot;imaginary&quot; friends Enoch manages to create using a half-understood alien text.  They are introduced simply to be dispensed with, and it lends nothing to the story or character development.<br />Therefore, I enjoyed the book, but it seems more like an abridgement of a more interesting and longer novel, and you can't help wondering what it could have been.  Incidentally, I think it would make a fine movie, especially today where special effects could pull off the liquid life forms, etc.  In that medium, the short length would be a distinct advantage.	2001-12-13
US	50762809	R9LWQU8R4AIEI	0786861827	929732293	I Am Spock	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Thoughtful, fun, and (dare I say it?) fascinating	Leonard Nimoy is best know as the actor that portrays Spock in the Star Trek universe.  Those that follow films also know him as the director of Three Men and a Baby and The Good Mother, not to mention a couple of the ST films.  This interesting biography includes a healthy dose of Spock, as indicated by the title, along with some divergences into his other acting roles and his directorial work.  The time frame is from approximately the beginning of the original series to the end of his appearance in the Star Trek: the Next Generation episode entitled \\"Unification\\", where Spock appeared alongside the Enterprise D crew.  As such, it is certainly a complete record of his work in the Trek universe (so far!).<br />It is a personal autobiography, in that discussions always centre on Nimoy himself.  This is a contrast to the Shatner \\"Star Trek Memories\\" books, in that Nimoy makes little attempt to explore his extended Trek family.  However, we get a very candid look at Nimoy's contributions over the years, including the conflicts on the set (between the actors themselves and between the actors and the directors, writers, etc.).  It is a thoughtful book, analysing the phenomenon of Trek and mulling over his place in it.  His schizophrenic relationship with the Vulcan he portrays is especially highlighted (including updated versions of his dialogues, similar to those in the earlier I Am Not Spock).<br />My only disappointment is that he spends little time on his early life and on his family life.  We only hear about his parents when he discusses their passing on.  He talks about working with his son on a TV show, but barely mentions his children previous to that.  This is not a problem overall (presumably he means to protect his family from the publicity), just a small disappointment.  Otherwise, it's highly recommended - a thoughtful and thoroughly enjoyable look into the mind Leonard Nimoy.<br />(...)	2001-12-07
US	50762809	R3D4YMFBRJQIPU	0743400135	240738397	West of Eden	Books	4	20	24	N	N	What if dinosaurs had developed intellegence?	What if the asteroid that wiped out the dinosaurs had never hit?  Would they eventually become extinct anyway, or would one species become intellegent?  Harry Harrison suggests what the world might have been like had the latter come to pass - his intellegent dinosaurs are the dominant species over most of the planet (Eurasia, it's implied).  Meanwhile, intellegent mammals (i.e. humans, at the pre-Columbus America level of technology) have arisen in the Americas.  The coming of an ice age drives these two intellegences towards each other, and this book is the first tale of their battle for supremacy.<br />The dinosaurs (Yilane) have an interesting technology, based entirely on genetic engineering (and the book was written before it was such a hot topic).  Fire is unknown to them (having evolved/lived in tropical rainforests), as is all the associated technology (metallurgy, etc.).  Their weapons, houses, even grooming tools are all animals especially bred for these purposes.  The Yilane technology, mating habits, social order, and language are very well described and an interesting creation.  Most of this is revealed through the eyes of Kerrick, a young boy captured and raised as a Yilane.  He is eventually rescued by a hunter-gatherer band of humans and must relearn his roots.  The second half of the book revolves around the now adult Kerrick leading the humans in battle against the Yilane.  This consists of collecting allies amongst the other tribes, puntuated by short, violent confrontations with the Yilane army.<br />In general the book is well written, and as mentioned, the Yilane are fascinating creations, as are the human tribes and their customs.  Unfortunately, the Yilane seem to exist mostly as the enemy of the humans - you never learn to sympathise with them and openly root for the humans.  <br />It's interesting to note the similarities to the Vietnam War - presumably it's deliberate.  The Yilane are a centralised, technologically advanced group, with control of the air (they have &quot;spy birds&quot;); they depend on their superior weapons to allow them to invade the human territory.  The humans, on the other hand, are much like the Viet Cong - highly mobile, skilled in camoflage, controlling the night, and fighting for their traditional lands.<br />This book can be read either as the beginning of the series (there are two sequels) or as a stand-alone.  Unfortunately, having read and enjoyed this first book, I have little desire to read the subsequent novels.  Perhaps I just don't like these semi-prehistoric stories, or perhaps it's because I don't care for/about the Yilane.	2001-12-02
US	50762809	R2XF3MNFTUA69E	0345342445	546810848	Citizen of the Galaxy	Books	4	1	3	N	N	A border book between Heinlein's juvenile and adult fiction	Heinlein wrote a number of juvenile novels, meant to appeal to the barely-teenager set.  Citizen of the Galaxy is often listed as a juvenile by his fans (as is Starship Troopers occasionally), but I would not consider it so.  The book's interest is not in its one-dimensional characters.  The interest is sustained in the number of new social and political entities that Heinlein invents, all of which are plausible.  The hero, Thorby, starts the book on a planet with three &quot;castes&quot; - the nobility, the poor but free non-nobles, and slaves (which is how Thorby starts out).  He then moves into the Free Trader society where all members of a trade ship are related (in name, at least) and have both a military rank and a familial hierarchy that is painfully exclusive.  Finally, Thorby ends up on Earth (&quot;Terra&quot;), which is not as well developed fictionally; it is revered as the birthplace of mankind with where day-to-day life similar to our own.<br />Naturally, these societies are painted with Heinlein's broad brush.  There are a number of things that make you scratch your head, especially since it was written in 1957.  While there are strong female characters, including the leader of the Free Trader ship, there's still that underlying Heinlein chauvenism (&quot;You know women - they have no head for business&quot;).  Perhaps these statements are tongue-in-cheek, but it doesn't sound like it.  More disturbing is his pessimism about slavery - numerous times he mentions the &quot;inevitability&quot; of slavery - and his apparent glorification of tribalism (the Traders call themselves &quot;people&quot; and everyone else are untermenschen).  His condemnation of slavery and glorification of racism are incompatible to a modern ear, but it is thought-provoking and brings the story out of its potential mundacity.<br />Flashes of Heinlein's future are included as well - Thorby's lawyer on Terra is eerily similar to Jubal Harshaw of &quot;Stranger in a Strange Land&quot;.  So, overall, I enjoyed the book.  It was thought-provoking, interesting for its depiction of possible future civilisations, and you didn't know what was going to happen next so wanted to keep reading.	2001-11-20
US	50762809	RJQP8YGLCWKGF	0425176428	539869630	What If?: The World's Foremost Military Historians Imagine What Might Have Been	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Interesting mix of possibilities	This book presents a number of &quot;counterfactual&quot; scenarios - historical events that are considered turning points, with possibilities as to what might have happened had the event turned out differently.  The most well-known examples (to westerners) are included, such as &quot;What if the fog had lifted while Washington was evacuating Long Island&quot; (American Revolution won by British), &quot;What if Lee's general order hadn't been lost&quot; (Confederacy fights Union to stand-still and gains independence), and &quot;What if Germany had not transferred troops to the east prematurely in 1914&quot; (Schlieffen Plan succeeds, no WWII, no Communism in Russia, etc.).  But, to the credit of the book, there is much more.  Historians from all eras were invited to contribute, so we have counterfactuals from the Roman Empire and Jerusalem in 701 BC up to Mao Zedong's long march.<br />The essays are uniformly enjoyable and interesting.  As pointed out by another reviewer, there is more describing what happened rather than speculating too far into the future on the consequences.  For example, if Lee's order hadn't fallen into Union hands, the result may have been a decisive Confederate victory in 1862.  The author (J.M. McPherson) only goes so far as to say this might have led to an armistice and recognition of the CSA.  But he goes no farther - what would the world be like today if that had been the case?  It might have been more appropriate (given the name of the book) for a little more speculation on long-term consequences.<br />Having said that, many (including myself) would argue that the history does not hinge directly on single events or single people.  For example, if Washington had been captured on Long Island in 1776, would the American Revolution have failed?  Maybe.  If so, would it have have significantly altered world history?  Probably not - the French Revolution would still have occurred, and the US would have achieved independence anyway (as did England's other colonies).  However, it's impossible to forsee the consequences of the fall of Jerusalem in 701 BC - would Judaism have been wiped out, and therefore would Christianity and Islam never have existed?  I don't think anyone would say the only difference that seige makes is the deity to which St. Paul's Basilica is dedicated.<br />So, whether you believe in the ability of &quot;small&quot; events to change history for all time or not, this is a very interesting and informative book, including a wide variety of scenarios and turning points in history, and what might have happened had the outcome been different.	2001-11-16
US	50762809	RIEZNVGJS4NGK	0345435249	147883919	Darwin's Radio	Books	3	23	27	N	N	Close, but not quite great	Human DNA appears to have a large amount of &quot;junk&quot; material (introns) that doesn't appear to do anything.  Greg Bear (and some evolutionary biologists) suggests that at least some of the junk is actually a code for evolution.  Others suggest that they are simply old viruses that humans defeated by absorbing them.  This book tells the story of how some of these intron sections come to life.  Is it an evolutionary change?  Is it an old retrovirus coming back to life?  This story is one of scientific debate and politics interwoven, two camps develop, arguing over the virus vs. evolution question.  Throw in a pinch of religious debate, and you've got the making of a top-notch scientific thriller.<br />The first half of the book doesn't disappoint - it's a page turner as the &quot;virus&quot; appears to be spreading uncontrollably, causing an alarming number of miscarriages.  The government of the U.S. evokes martial law in all but name to try to clamp down on the disease, which naturally causes civil unrest and domestic violence.  As the scientists scramble to understand what is going on, a split occurs, especially after evidence is found of a subspeciation event in the distant past - a family of mumified neanderthals (homo sapiens neanderthalis) with an offspring that was apparently a modern human (homo sapiens sapiens).<br />Unfortunately, the narration runs out of steam in the latter half of the book, as we wait around with the characters to see if any infected mothers can give birth to viable offspring, and if such children are a new subspecies.  By the time the last 100 pages roll around, we've already figured out what's going to happen, and there are few surprises.<br />Scientifically, I enjoyed the book emmensely.  A little knowledge of biochemistry helps, but there is a primer at the back and a glossary of scientific terms for those that have never learned much biochem.  Unfortunately, most characters in the book are two dimensional.  For example, allevolutionary biologists believe in the classic Darwinian (i.e. slow and constant) evolution instead of punctuated evolution (characterised by no change followed by a period of rapid development); I've never met a modern researcher that believes in classic evolution - it seems like all the scientists in this book are living in the 1950's!  And, as is usual in science fiction, Christians are classified solely as evangenical bible-thumping creationists who hate science, and all other religions are ignored; again, the majority of Christians accept evolution (albeit controlled by God), but few science fiction writers seem to realise this.  Greg Bear is obviously not one of them.<br />Thus, while I enjoyed the book on a scientific level and found the first half to be exciting, on the whole it's only worth 3 stars.	2001-11-03
US	50762809	RWRW3OF136A5Y	0195110382	435467343	War at Sea: A Naval History of World War II	Books	4	15	15	N	Y	Easy reading, good coverage for a 1-volume history	As a 1-volume history of the naval war in all theatres in WWII, this book can by no means be complete or in-depth.  However, if you read this book as an introduction to naval warfare, or as a look at the &quot;big picture&quot;, this volume does the job very well.  It is easy to read, informative, touches on virtually all the important events, and keeps up a good pace.  Of course, certain events are relegated to mere footnotes, including the Dieppe raid and the loss of USS Indianapolis (where most of the deaths were from sharks and exposure, not enemy activity) in the interest of timing and length.  However, Miller usually points the way to further readings in such cases, if the reader wants to know more.  There is an extensive notes section at the end of the book divided by chapter, listing many primary sources, which gives the book a good deal of credibility.<br />His analysis is generally brief as well, which is ideal for a book of this type, where pace important.  This doesn't mean it's any less insightful, however.  He convincingly argues that the use of the atomic bomb was a strategic, war-ending measure, not just an attempt to scare the Soviet Union; that the refusal of the Japanese to withdraw skilled pilots to train the next generation was a fatal error; and that the industrial might of the combined allies was too much for the Axis - they had to win in the first couple of years or be ultimately worn out.  Another important point in praise of this book is the way Miller is careful to point out the involvement of the so-called minor allies.  For example, by 1945, Canada had the 3rd largest navy in the world, but because the RCN primarily participated in the Battle of the Atlantic, they get ignored by historians who get caught up in Big Events storytelling.  Miller is always very careful to point out these countries' contributions.<br />Unfortunately, there are a few quibbling points that drop the book to 4 stars.  First, the maps are conveniently located together at the back of the book, but are never referred to in the text, and are often of too large an area to be useful.  For example, a lot of space is devoted to amphibious operations on Guadalcanal, Okinawa, etc., but these islands are merely dots on a &quot;Pacific theatre&quot; map.  Even a 1/4 page sketch per island would have been very helpful.  Secondly, Miller seems to have a vendetta against Winston Churchill - he is always quick to ridicule Churchill's wild ideas, but never to give credit to his good ones, instead saying, &quot;The British wanted ....&quot;  Finally, there's an occasional confusion, such as mixing up the British cruisers Dorsetshire (that sunk the Bismark) and Devonshire.<br />These quibbles do not really detract from the overall enjoyment of the book, however, and it's recommended for any armchair historian interested in the naval aspects of World War II.	2001-10-08
US	50762809	R3CQ8448PYZJTT	0812580354	77230724	Calculating God	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Entertaining and a interesting twist on &quot;creationism&quot;	As a Canadian, it's to my shame that this is the first Robert Sawyer book I have read. It certainly won't be the last, however. This is the story about aliens (from 2 different planets!) arriving on Earth and splitting up to explore various aspects of the planet. One goes to Borneo to live with gorillas, another spends his time in a mental hospital in West Virginia, and the one that the book focusses on is a paleontologist that ends up in Toronto at the Royal Ontario Museum. It turns out that both alien races believe in an intellegent designer of the universe, more conveniently called &quot;God&quot; throughout the book.<br />The book is not really a morality play, however. The alien view of God is that He/She/It is not concerned with individuals, but does actively participate in the life of the galaxy (and universe?). For example, extinction events on all three planets where intellegent life arose occurred at the same time, but from unrelated causes (e.g. our extinction event 65 million years ago was from an asteroid and so should have no correlation with extinction events elsewhere), and DNA uses the same 4 building block across the three species. So, the alien Hollus basically paraphrases Einstein: &quot;I want to know the mind of God; all the rest is just details.&quot;<br />One of the great things about the book is that it's not a goal-driven story - the characters are just scientists trying to learn from each other. The narrative never loses steam, however, and you're drawn into the story and the characters, especially Hollus and the family of the ROM's paleonotologist, the narrator of the story. His struggle with lung cancer is a humanising subplot, giving him (an ardent atheist) a personal stake in the debates on the nature or existence of God.<br />Someone has commented that Sawyer is a combination of Arthur C. Clarke and Michael Crichton, which is a good description of the style of this book. Add in the distinctly Canadian atmosphere and a dose of humour,and you have a very enjoyable (and sometimes thought-provoking) science fiction novel.	2001-09-19
US	50762809	R2ZQHQV4OBWI6O	0553274503	571684273	Flowers for Algernon (Bantam Classic)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A fine story, very well written and bittersweet	Charlie Gordon has an IQ of 60 and can't even beat a lab mouse named Algernon in races through mazes (the mouse in the maze, Charlie tracing with his hand). It turns out that Algernon has been surgically &quot;enhanced&quot; by a special procedure to increase his intellegence. The scientists want a human subject, and Charlie is their choice, mainly because his immediate family is no part of his life, and because Charlie has always had a dim desire to &quot;become smarter,&quot; noted by a teacher at his special school.<br />The novel is the story of Charlie, told in his own words through &quot;progris riports&quot; as a type of diary. His story is mirrored by that of Algernon. The scientists treat Charlie as little more than a lab animal, proclaiming at a conference that they made him into a real human being. It's only slowly that Charlie starts to gain intellegence, and this is the heart of the book - his rapid strides forward in intellegence and knowledge, but unfortunately not in emotional development. Memories of childhood abandonment and abuse come back to haunt him which severely hinder his ability to love and grow emotionally. When Algernon starts to decay - he becomes erratic and starts to grow stupid - no one knows if it will also happen to Charlie. This tension lends the narrative a tension that adds poignancy to the second half of the book.<br />This is not a traditional science fiction story - nothing is told of the details of the operation or the science behind it. Why it won the Nebula is a bit of a mystery. However, it is a very good story, well written and heartfelt. A story like this must be written in the first person, and it's done very effectively here - you get into the head of Charlie and care for him and the people he cares about. Some of the minor characters are stereotyped - for instance, all of the scientists (in fact, all the university professors) are pompous and arrogant. But the vast majority of the book is very good, and recommended.	2001-09-14
US	50762809	R14NOCJJ3LJP1U	0451627873	841067083	Double Helix (Mentor)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	The operative word is &quot;personal,&quot; but very informative	The title of the book says it all - this is a &quot;personal account of the discovery of the structure of DNA.&quot; Told from the point of view of James Watson, who later shared the Nobel Prize with Crick and Wilkins for the discovery. Both Crick and Watson were theorists, who analysed other peoples' data (I've heard more than one biochemist say they &quot;stole&quot; it from Wilkins and Rosalind Franklin) and correctly deduced the double-helix structure of DNA.<br />The drama mostly centres on Cambridge and King's College, the universities where these scientists were studying/working at the time. Also figuring prominently in the story is Linus Pauling, winner of 2 Nobel Prizes (one in chemistry, the other for peace). He was hot on the trail and this competition that gives the narrative a driving energy. It's interesting that both he and the Watson/Crick combo both independently came up with a triple-helix structure with the backbone on the inside before W &amp; C turned that idea inside out and put the backbone in the correct position, on the outside.<br />This brings us to the contribution of Rosalind Franklin. Her contribution to the discovery are significant - she first expounded the idea that the backbone must be on the outside, and her X-ray diffraction pictures led C &amp; W to a helical structure. She did not win the Nobel Prize - the reason is not because she was female or difficult to work with, but because she passed away at 37, before the prize was awarded. Whether her gender or personality would have excluded her were she still alive is, of course, debatable.<br />What is most enjoyable about this book, however, is the personal style - Watson gives us an inside look at London, time spent in pubs, boring conferences, and his relationship with Watson, Bragg, and other famous scientists in London and elsewhere. This is the personal aspect, and he makes no qualms about telling unflattering stories about these people (and himself). These include run-ins with Franklin, Bragg, and his first postdoctoral advisor. Throw in a healthy dose of interdisciplinary squabbling (biologists vs. chemists vs. physicists) and you get an entertaining story of one of the most important discoveries of the 20th century.	2001-09-10
US	50762809	R3JX8VGO2EQ6KX	0586071105	834333861	Foundation and Earth	Books	4	6	7	N	N	The &quot;last&quot; book in the series, and a fine one at that	This is the last book, chronologically, in the Robot/Empire/Foundation universe, and it's a very fitting one.  The story starts immediately (i.e. days) after the end of Foundation's Edge, so we start with the same three main characters - Trevize, the exiled Foundation councilman; Pelorat, the ancient historian looking for Earth; and Bliss, member of the superorganism Gaia.  Since the problems of Trevize and Bliss were solved in Foundation's Edge, we are left to solve Pelorat's in this book - where and what is the planet where all humankind originated?  Of course, we already know the answer, but there's a great deal of fun to be had in the journey.<br />...<br />Thus, we set off on a search for Earth, and with only a few clues and hearsay, it's a long search.  Along the way we visit a number of planets we're familiar with from other series - notably Solaria and Aurora, the two most prominent Spacer worlds in the Robot novels.  We learn the fate of the Spacers (including the solution to the &quot;hook&quot; at the end of Robots and Empire - why the Solarians disappeared) and along the way Asimov springs a few additional surprises on us.  The characters are interesting and much more enjoyable than the same characters in the previous book - I'm not sure why that is, since their personalities are perfectly consistent.  The debates between Trevize representing individual freedom and Bliss representing the telepathically linked massmind of Gaia provides much of the philosophical backbone of the book.  There is suffienct action and plot twists to keep you turning the pages right to the end of the book.<br />...<br />It's curious that this book is so difficult to find, yet the books published on either side of it (Robots and Empire and Prelude to Foundation) are readily available.  In addition, this book spent 15 weeks on the NY Times bestseller list!  It's even hard to find used (it took me about 10 used bookstores in 3 different cities to find it, and every one of the tenhad Foundation's Edge).  Very odd.  But, it was well worth the effort to find - it's one of the best Foundation books, certainly better than Foundation's Edge.  There is a hook at the end of this novel too, but the good Dr. Asimov passed on before he could write another installment (and apparently, he did not have any idea what to do with it anyways).	2001-09-05
US	50762809	R2I39UJOQCJKO6	0553293389	59623677	Foundation's Edge (Foundation Novels)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A good idea with only mediocre execution	After the first few Foundation stories were published (those that ended up collected in the &quot;novels&quot; called Foundation, and Foundation and Empire), Asimov stated that he couldn't write any more stories in the series because with the Seldon Plan in motion, everything was already determined.  Importantly, it should be noted that the Plan was not about establishing a Second Empire after the fall of the first, but only reducing the time between those Empires (and therefore, reducing the amount of strife and hardship).  To continue the series, Asimov had to create crises to be resolved.<br />The first crisis was the attack of the Mule, which followed the idea that one powerful man might be able to alter the course of history, or at least disrupt the Plan.  This was the equivalent of introducing a Genghis Khan, Alexander, or Napoleon.  It's a matter of debate whether they actually altered the course of history (e.g., they don't speak Macedonian in Iran, or Mongolian in Russia), so the Mule's disruption would be one of timing, not the ultimate establishment of the Second Empire.  Thus, the series rested for 20 years.<br />By its nature, technological advances cannot be imagined by more &quot;primitive&quot; scientific societies, and this is the crisis that sets up this novel, Foundation's Edge.  Just as our great political philosphers of the 19th century could not have predicted nuclear weapons, Hari Seldon could not predict the technological advance of the First Foundation.  Thus, some of the Foundation's leaders decide the time has come to dispense with the Plan, and by extension the Second Foundation.  This is an intriguing setup, and like all of Asimov's works, you are quickly drawn into the story and immediately get to know the characters intimately.  It centres around an exile - Trevize - sent out by the leader of the 1st Foundation as a &quot;lightning rod&quot; to try to flush out the Second Foundation.  Naturally, the Second Foundationers find out and take moves to stop it.  Both Foundations are also concerned that the Plan is too precise - is there something/someone else guiding the plan for its own purposes?  <br />Unfortunately, the story doesn't live up to its promise, or rather, the characters and specific situations don't.  They just aren't as interesting or likeable as in other books written during the same few years - namely, the final two robot books (Robots and Empire and Robots of Dawn).  It even suffers in comparison to Second Foundation, the immediately previous book in the Foundation series (written 20 years earlier).  Thus, while interesting, and a must read for Foundation (and Asimov) fans, it's a little disappointing relative to his other works.	2001-09-02
US	50762809	R21GSAD9BZ0VED	041502787X	737092943	The Franco-Prussian War: The German Invasion of France 18701871	Books	4	14	14	N	N	A preview of 20th century wars	The Franco-Prussian war took place in 1870-1871, and is both the last of the wars featuring the traditional Imperial powers (France, Enland, Spain) and the first of the modern 20th century wars featuring the new Imperial powers (Germany, Japan, the US). There is also a direct linear relationship from this war to WWI (and thence to WWII). Because of this linear relationship, and because it was the only war between major European powers between the years of 1815 and 1914, more books have been written about it than any other war in history, relative to its length (a scant half-year). Unfortunately, few of these books still in print. This one, however, is available, and is a good summary of the war. Michael Howard takes us through the 60 years of peace from the end of the Napoleonic wars, commenting on the reforms in equipment, tactics, and strategy of both the French and Prussian armies after their last clash at Waterloo. Then follows the meat of the narrative, the war itself. We are taken through the battles and campaign in some detail, starting with the important initial Prussian victories at Sedan and Metz that sent most of the regular French army into captivity. This is followed by the seige of Paris and the running countryside battles between the regular Prussian soldiers and the barely-trained French scratch armies and Francs-tireurs (guerillas). Along with the action, there is some insightful analysis. Howard convincingly argues that in both terms of manpower and equipment, the two armies cancelled each other out (the superiority of the Prussian artillery should have been cancelled by the superiority of the quick-firing French rifles). Thus, the Prussian victory mostly arose from superior staff work and organisation, for which he credits Moltke and Bismark and blames Napolean III and his staff. Also interesting was the debate on tactics that took place in both armies, for instance, the effectiveness of bombarding civilian populations as opposed to military targets only (and Howard gives us further analysis in light of the World Wars). The book is liberally sprinkled with footnotes and is well documented. Many of the footnotes are added as proof by direct quotes from original sources, and are thus in the language of the combatants. A knowledge of French and German is not required, as Howard gives you the gist in the main text, so the narrative runs along smoothly. Unfortunately, the narrative tends to be dry and the maps are small and occasionally difficult to read, hence the 4-star rating instead of 5.	2001-08-27
US	50762809	R1BP98L7QXU0CK	0553296590	674781900	Dreamsnake	Books	4	8	10	N	N	A compelling heroine in an atmospheric story	First, I will have to admit that I have not liked other Vonda McIntyre books I've read - the only reason I picked this one up was because it won the Hugo AND the Nebula, so it seemed like I should read it.  After a bit of a rocky start (VM seems too rushed in trying to set up the initial crisis that you haven't developed any empathy for the heroine yet), you get engrossed in the story of a healer in a post-apocolyptic world that uses snakes as a type of hypodermic needle.  When suitably drugged, her rattlesnake and cobra produce antitoxins and medicines instead of venom.  The titular dreamsnake is an alien species of snake whose venom produces an analgesic/anesthetic effect, which the healers use instead of traditional drugs for the very ill.  When the heroine's dreamsnake is killed by a superstitious tribesman, she blames herself and sets off on a quest to atone for the loss (i.e., finding more dreamsnakes).<br />As mentioned, the initial crisis, the death of the dreamsnake, occurs before you know (or care) much about the world and the heroine.  Perhaps it was written this way on purpose, but it doesn't work.  It isn't really until half-way through the book that you start to get into the story, but the wait is worth it.  By that point, you're drawn into the world and begin to understand it.  The same can be said of the healer, you've finally got to know her and like her.<br />The other characters are not as well written, and you care little for them.  This is not a major drawback, because most of the other characters are of minor importance, existing primarily to further the plot.  The story itself is engrossing, and contains a number of loose ends where sequels could be possible, but oddly, McIntyre has not written one.  These &quot;jagged edges&quot; seem realistic to real life, if a little frustrating.<br />Overall, it's a good book, and enjoyable to read.  You'll have to trust me on that, because after the first 30 pages, you'll be thinking otherwise, but stickwith it and you'll be rewarded.	2001-08-11
US	50762809	R8F688NTYTECM	0830815996	903630424	Professors Who Believe: The Spiritual Journeys of Christian Faculty	Books	3	14	16	N	N	Generally a good mix of essays	As mentioned in another review, there are a wide variety of essays in this book, varying both in length and subject.  Some of the essays are personal ones on how the author became a Christian, some are on the integration of Christianity into the classroom (explicitly or implicitly), and some are expositions on Christian theory (the need for a personal relationship with Christ, for instance).  The quality also varies widely, or rather, the use of a given essay to a particular reader will vary widely.  I found the personal reminiscences to be quite useful/interesting.  Unfortunately, those essays that dealt with the &quot;theology&quot; of Christianity were not nearly as good as a group.  I think this is because people that are not theologians (or philosophers) are out of their element when writing in philosophical terms.  They seem a little amateur, and overlap significantly (not surprising, since many Christians will have similar ideas on what is important).<br />My second disappointment was with the number of essays involving the relationship between being a Christian and teaching in a (usually) secular university.  The title of the book lead me to believe there would be many more essays on this topic, but usually the fact that the author is a professor is irrelevant or of insignificant importance to the essay.  I found the essays that dealt with this subject to be the most interesting and useful, being myself a professor at a secular university.<br />The most pleasant surprise of this book is the wide variety of backgrounds of the authors.  There are people from numerous denominations, from Roman Catholics to biblical fundamentalists to African American Baptists.  This variety is important and, I think, necessary, because there is far too much internicene squabbling amongst Christian denominations - this book makes clear that different methods of worship work for different people, and variety can serve to strengthen the Christian community, not weaken it.  The professional disciplines of the authors also vary widely, from English literature to nursing to astronony.<br />Generally, this book is interesting and helpful, if suffering from some repitition.  This is probably the nature of such an anthology, as I assume the authors were given a wide latitude on subject matter.  I would like to have seen more essays on the merger of Christianity with academia.	2001-08-08
US	50762809	R278PKDGFRWRYB	0345419677	930407126	To Your Scattered Bodies Go (Riverworld Saga, Book 1)	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Great idea, okay execution	Farmer's Riverworld saga takes place on a planet where all of humankind has been resurrected simultaneously.  Everyone is in the prime of life, no one can reproduce, and people who die are resurrected on some random place on the planet.  The planet is divided into sections by a planet-long (and -wide) river and impassable cliffs.  Each subdivisions is populated with a large percentage of people from a given geographical area and historical era (e.g., a group from Nazi Germany, a group of ancient Sumerians, a tribe of Seneca Indians).  The main character in this installment is Richard Burton, a real-life explorer and adventurer.  He sets out to travel the river and try to find its source, where he hopes to find out who or what has caused the resurrection and why.  Along the way, he meets up with a number of people from different eras and cultures, most notably Hermann Goering, Reichsmarshall of the Nazi Luftwaffe.<br />The underlying theme of the book is a great idea - the possibility to write about any person in history.  The clash of cultures, political ideals, etc. could be endlessly investigated.  Unfortunately, in this first book, the pace is breathtaking - Burton travels through and past literally hundreds of little enclaves, with barely a passing glance.  I was left feeling a little frustrated that the book refused to slow down and consider any details about the various societies he encounters.  So, while I enjoyed the setup, the payoff was lacking.<br />It's entirely possible that the author purposefully wrote the book with a broad, undetailed stroke of the pen.  Perhaps the other books in the series are meant to linger and consider the details of this world.  Unfortunately, this book does not make me wish to rush out and immediately purchase the subsequent books in the series.  I'm intrigued, but not hooked.	2001-08-02
US	50762809	R284MR7ZZ55H86	034532451X	217796281	The Rolling Stones	Books	1	1	17	N	N	Fairly dull, nothing imaginative to grab the reader	Usually Heinlein injects something interesting into all his books, even the young adult stories like this one.  They normally make a comment about racism, sexism, or militarism.  You may not agree with his sentiments (normally I don't), but at least they are thought provoking.  Unfortunately, this book is very shallow, with none of the underlying thought of his other books.  It's the story of a family from the Moon (Mom, Dad, 4 kids of various ages, and Grandma) who have wanderlust and set off to Mars and the mining communities of the asteroid belt.  The mother is a doctor, and I can't help but think hers would be the only interesting story, but instead of following her off on her calls to the sick (including a mysterious epidemic on a passenger liner and serious injuries to the asteroid miners), we watch her leave and suffer through another mundane episode of the sons' &quot;get rich quick&quot; schemes.<br />This book was written for young adults, but it reads more like a Hardy Boys episode.  I fear that Heinlein missed his intended audience (were teenagers really that much less sophisticated in the early 60's?).  If you're looking to sample Heinlein's early young adult fiction, I would suggest Space Cadet or Between Planets.  If you're like me, and have to read everything by Heinlein, then keep your eyes open for the &quot;Flat Cats&quot; - David Gerrold must have been inspired by these Martian animals when writing his Classic Star Trek episode, the Trouble With Tribbles.	2001-07-30
US	50762809	RO9XYG6M935WY	0061093297	527532142	Star Trek Movie Memories	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Not as good as ST Memories, but still very entertaining	Star Trek Memories was one of the most pleasant surprises of my reading career.  William Shatner is a surprisingly good writer - the book was entertaining, fast flowing, fun, and occasionally very funny.<br />Thus, I was really looking forward to reading this book, Star Trek Movie Memories.  While not as good as the original, it's still very enjoyable.  Who cares if parts may be slightly exaggerated?  Who cares if some cast members remember some events differently?  Personal memoirs are fraught with inconsistencies, even when all the people involved really are telling the truth (as they remember it).  This book relies mostly on these personal rememberances and is all the stronger for it.  It's an personal and inside look at what the people involved think of Star Trek, rather than a definitive history.<br />The main problem is the narrow focus of the people participating.  There is much less from the actors and much more from the business people.  Shatner's main sources (other than his own memory) are Leonard Nimoy, Have Bennet, and Nick Meyers.  All three of these people are producers/directors, not actors (except Nimoy, but most of his contributions are from the production side as well).  Only George Takai of the &quot;Other 4&quot; cast members is interviewed, and only for the ST III chapter.  Ricardo Montalban is the only &quot;guest star&quot; of note to be extensively quoted.  Koenig and Doohan are not consulted, which is not surprising, considering their disdain for Shatner, but neither is Nichols, whose interview figured prominently in the first memoir, nor Kelley.<br />Within the confines of this limitation, however, it's a pretty good book.  It's fascinating to hear stories about script and budgetary confrontations, ego battles between top men, and clashes between Roddenberry and the studio.  Unfortunately, Roddenberry comes out short in this memoir, probably because he had passed away and could not give his side of the story.  Shatner pulls no punches (howmany defamation suits were considered, I wonder?), and even criticises himself at times.  While it's true he defends the dreadful fifth movie (i.e. the one he directed), he admits it's not as good as the others.  I think anyone interested in Star Trek will thoroughly enjoy this book, even if you're more willing to believe someone else's side of the stories presented herein.  It's fun, entertaining, and very interesting.	2001-07-29
US	50762809	RILZINW9BE38O	0812575717	106877023	Ender's Shadow (The Shadow Series)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	More thoughtful that 'Game', but less universal	&quot;Ender's Shadow&quot; is the story of mankind's struggle against a seemingly implacable foe from Outer Space.  The &quot;Buggers&quot; seem bent on destroying the human race, so humanity responds by attempting to wipe out the Buggers in the first interstellar xenocide.  Bright children are brought to the Battle School, a space station where they can train in military/zero-G tactics.  &quot;Ender's Game&quot; told the story of the Battle School from the perspective of its best student, Ender Wiggum.  This book, &quot;Ender's Shadow,&quot; tells it from the perspective of the 2nd best student, Bean.<br />Bean grew up as a street-kid, and his survival skills and superhuman intellegence are his great attributes.  It is fascinating to follow his logic and perception in solving the problems put before him, especially since we already know Ender's solutions after reading &quot;Ender's Game.&quot;  Thus, readers will find &quot;Ender's Shadow&quot; much more rewarding if they are familiar with the earlier work, but the novel can stand on its own.  It certainly fleshes out the story of the Battle School greatly, and is very well written.  There is actually very little of the book that is &quot;repeat&quot; material - similar to the relationship between the plays &quot;Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead&quot; and &quot;Hamlet.&quot;  While Ender's story plays in the background for half the book, Bean's experiences and tribulations are brought to the front, and are entirely new experiences.<br />Card himself called this book a 'parallax' to Ender's Game, and I agree that it's the best term.  While some events are the same (we know how the war turns out, for example), seeing them through another's eyes give them a fresh look.  Bean is more analytical and strategic than Ender, so this book is more thoughtful than the original.  To me, it's a better book, because Card is a better writer.  However, it may not have the same universal appeal, especially to younger readers -there isn't as much action, for instance.  And it isn't quite as good as &quot;Speaker for the Dead,&quot; my favourite of the Ender books, so I give it 4 stars.  It is still a great (and original!) book, and in no way a simple attempt by Card to cash in on the popularity of the series.	2001-07-26
US	50762809	R1HWK68BA0J40I	0684865459	915618001	High Exposure: An Enduring Passion for Everest and Unforgiving Places	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Good autobiography of a fascinating man	David Breashears has had an interesting life, and we can share in it in this autobiography.  From his life as an army brat moved about the U.S. and Europe (notably, Greece), to climbing and filming Mt. Everest (several times!), he culls interesting stories of himself and others.  It is brutally frank at times, especially when talking about his abusive father and failed marriage.  At other times, we are swept away into the mountains with him and share in his joy of climbing.<br />One of the minor surprises of this book is that Breashears wrote it himself, and wrote it well.  The narrative is smooth and well-written.  There are a number of photos and schematic drawing that give us an idea of the shape, size, and routes of the mountains he's climbing.  Only a very small amount of climbing knowledge is required (if you don't know what a crampon is, you'll probably not be interested in this book anyways!), so climbing neophytes like myself are never bogged down in technical terms.<br />Especially fascinating for me are the chapters on Everest, which is the main reason I bought the book.  Having seen his IMAX-format film on Everest (highly recommended; it will soon be available on DVD and VHS), I was very interested in the behind-the-scenes aspects.  He also discusses his other movies, e.g., Cliffhanger (his role in this was minor) and Everest, the Death Zone (unseen by me), and it's interesting to compare the three different filming modes (documentary/standard, documentary/IMAX, and studio blockbuster).  <br />Finally, his take on the Everest disaster in 1996 is written from the point of view of someone who was on the mountain, but not in imminent danger, as opposed to the Boukreev and Krakauer accounts.  Of course, it's not as detailed, but still very interesting, and a good compliment to the information that made it to the screen in his IMAX film.<br />Therefore, I recommend this book for anyone interested in climbing or Mt. Everest.  Detailed knowledge of mountain climbing is not required.  The book is very well written - detailed for the climbing enthusiast without getting bogged down in technical details that would discourage the novice.	2001-07-25
US	50762809	R2KSHT0S9HD6OQ	0586062009	548376022	Robots and Empire	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A very good effort from one of the masters	Asimov did not originally plan to tie all the Robot, Empire, and Foundation series together.  However, as time went on, that is the direction his novels took, and certain things had to be tied together - e.g. the source of the radioactivity on Earth, the fact that there are no robots in the Empire series, etc.  This book is the primary step between the Robot series and the Empire series.  The plot surrounds characters familiar to readers of the previous books - the robots Daneel and Giskard, the Spacers Gladia and Amadiro, etc.  Elijah Baley, hero of the first three installments, is dead (and has been for 200 year), but he lives on in flashbacks which nicely tie up his life story.<br />The plot itself is characteristic Asimov - a mystery that's far-reaching in its implications (robots apparently disobeying the 1st Law and murdering humans, and conflict between Earth colonists and Spacers) and that takes a number of twists before its resolution.  This book is superior to the early Robot (and Empire) books in that it doesn't try to rush from one cliffhanger to the next, instead telling the story in a smooth and controlled manner.<br />I enjoyed the book and its style is easy and fun to read.  It is a good sequel in that it would be difficult to read on its own, as it's assumed the reader knows the characters and the general situation in the galaxy (Earth vs. Spacer worlds).  However, the details of the previous books are not essential to understanding, so it's easy to pick up after not having read the other books for a long time.	2001-07-17
US	50762809	R3F48H7KQS1X3Z	0375700455	841119426	The First World War	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Good breadth, touching on all theatres of the war	World War I may have been the most important war in history, certainly the most of the last three to four hundred years.  Old political systems were destroyed and new ones created, entirely new forms of warfare were introduced, etc.  Thus, a great many books have been written on the subject.  John Keegan is well known to military historians, and in fact most armchair historians as well, and has applied his keen mind and easy-to-read style to this event with his usual high standards.<br />What I most like about this book is its breadth.  Instead of the standard cursory lip-service to the secondary theatres of operation, the entire war is covered, including Turkey's battles in Egypt and the Caucuses, Rumania's beating, and the Austro-Italian conflict.  He also covers the major battles, of course, including Verdun, Tannenburg, Arras, etc.<br />The first hundred pages or so are not up to the standard of the rest of the book - here the cursory overview is detrimental, especially when compared to Tuchman's Guns of August, for instance.  However, once the war starts, it is an excellent read.  Keegan chooses to focus on the strategic direction of the war, sacrificing some tactical and political detail as a result.  This is an advantage, in my opinion - the narrative moves quickly and is more readable as a result. <br />Some have complained about the lack of maps.  I found the number adequate, if not always well placed.  Most of the time, place names and details of battles are not important, especially in the Western Front - same battle, different place is the common theme.  Having said that, it is a little annoying when towns are specifically mentioned in the text but not placed on the corresponding map.<br />Overall, an excellent look at the First World War.  Highly recommended if you are interested in the course of the war itself  rather than its underlying causes or repercussions.	2001-07-09
US	50762809	R2OTTDY9KEYS7A	0553576208	606595727	The Trigger	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Preachy and predictable?  Somewhat.  Entertaining?  YES!	This is the story of some scientists who stumble on a discovery that renders explosives useless. The development of this technology, called the Trigger, into a public anti-gun/bomb shield is the basic plot of the book. The book follows the deployment of the devices and the resistance it creates in the US. There is more social commentary than science, but it's an intriguing idea and an engrossing story of how idealistic scientists and politicians battle the gun lobby and society's fear of change.<br />This book focusses mostly on the political side of events in the US - the court cases and debates (both public and private) between those in favour of the Trigger and those opposed. The balance is heavily weighted on the Trigger side and against the NRA-types. Although I am personally a proponent of gun control, I know that the majority of the gun lobby are not rabid militarists, as they seem to be portrayed in this book. It comes across sounding preachy at times. Another problem is that the narrative seems to run out of steam - the last 100 pages could be cut.<br />I enjoyed this book immensely - it's entertaining, engrossing, thought provoking, and difficult to put down. Only the slightly preachy tone and 2-dimensional portrayal of the gun lobby robbed it of its 5th star.	2001-06-28
US	50762809	R2CY91FJ6EQ8AZ	067157826X	946394457	Sixth Column	Books	4	3	7	N	N	An interesting idea, but take with a grain of salt	This was Heinlein's first offering, written in 1941 (according to the book jacket).  Surprisingly, it's much better than some of his later works.  The story involves the members of a top-secret military research installation that come across a new superweapon on the same day the United States (and all her allies?) capitulates to an invasion force from the &quot;Panasians,&quot; a deliberately vague term for a supernation presumably consisting of present-day China, Korea, Mongolia, etc.  The story involves the method of implementing the new weapon while minimising casualties amongst the civilian population.<br />The chosen method will sound familiar to those who have read Heinlein's magnum opus, Stranger in a Strange Land.  The scientists set up a new religion, recruit new soldiers from their flock, and organise a secret army that way.  This is certainly an unorthodox method to raise an army, and it is this consistent sideways thinking that keeps Heinlein's books fresh and interesting after all these years.<br />The aforementioned superweapon has the ability to pick victims by race, based on the belief at the time (now thankfully debunked) that different races have significantly different DNA.  The book is certainly racist - all people of the &quot;Asian&quot; race are considered the enemy, with the exception of one (!) Sino-American who is the exception that verifies the rule.  First Nations people and African Americans are never mentioned, as if they don't exist.  But readers must remember that this was written at a very different time in a very different USA, so take it with a grain of salt.<br />Thus, it's an interesting and enjoyable read, especially for a debut novel, if you can overcome the racist aspects.	2001-06-13
US	50762809	R1IM6HI2SMA7SS	0813320801	305279417	Crete: The Battle And The Resistance (History and Warfare)	Books	4	25	29	N	N	Interesting look at an often overlooked battle	This is the only book I've read to focus on the Battle of Crete.  It was interesting and informative.  For the historian, there is a lot of detail, such as disposition of units, resistance leaders' names and locations of operations, etc.  For the casual reader, this detail does not bog the reader down, generally, and events are presented clearly.  A certain amount of knowledge of the course of WWII is assumed, but I doubt someone unfamiliar with the course of the war would be interesting in this book anyways.<br />As mentioned in another review, it is a little dry at times, but this is not a large flaw.  The main problem is the focus on the British and Commenwealth troops.  Presumably they kept better records, but surely a few more anecdotes could have been presented regarding the plight of the common Cretan resistance fighter.<br />The invasion of Crete should be a fertile ground for all those &quot;What if ....&quot; alternate history authors.  If the British had held the island, its long-range bombers (developed later in the war) would have had a base from where they could strike the Ploesti oil fields, and possible greatly affected the outcome of the war.  Alternatively, a resounding German victory may have brought on an airborne invasion of England.  As it turned out, the Germans won a victory, but destroyed their paratroops in the process.  These issues add an interesting side-story to the drama, and Beevor introduces these ideas to put the battle in context.  Oddly enough, he generally dismisses the idea that Crete's fate had a significant effect on the overall outcome of the war, but he has planted the seeds of doubt in my mind, at least.<br />All in all, it's an interesting book, well focussed on the battle and resistance on the isle of Crete.	2001-06-12
US	50762809	R3168YBZPHO6GS	0345421949	526632959	Roads Not Taken: Tales of Alternate History	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	Entertaining &quot;alternate history&quot; from beginning to end	I normally find a collection of stories from several different authors irritating to read, due to the different styles they write in, fluctuating quality, etc.  This book, on the other hand, has solid and entertaining stories from beginning to end.  They span a wide range of time frames, from the ubiquitous American Civil War alternative to North America in 1492, Alexander/Aristotle's time, and of course WWII.  My only complaint on the scope is that there are too many stories centred on North America, but this is not a serious problem, just a personal dislike.<br />Favourites include the stories by Greg Costikyan and Michael F. Flynn.  GC's story involves an alternate history where Communism is the clear winner in the economic cold war and the western capitalist system collapses.  I would urge everyone to read it, especially if you have little sympathy for the plight of the former Soviet republics.  MFF's story takes place in a North America where George Washington is killed early in the American Revolution and the colonies end up as several independent states all warring on each other.<br />These two examples illustrate the diversity and entertainment possible in alternate history fiction, and I recommend this book to anyone who already loves this type of story or anyone that thinks they might like to start reading in the area.	2001-05-30
US	50762809	R2MSPG7DO8TDMA	0345438353	703326855	A Case of Conscience (Del Rey Impact)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Interesting, but unfocussed	This is the story of a group of men sent to evaluate a new-found planet for suitability of use by Man.  The planet already has a race of intellegent beings (they are reptilian, like seemingly every other intellegent alien in science fiction!), who have a perfecly evolved society.  There is no crime, no unemployment, no nations, etc.  And there is no religion, which bothers one of the evaluation team, who happens to be a Jesuit.  By Catholic (and Protestant, Jewish, Islamic, etc.) theology, perfection cannot be obtained in the absence of God, so this raises a quandry for the priest - either God doesn't exist, or this planet is a trap set by the Devil to snare mankind.<br />With such a setup, I thought this novel would primarily deal with how the aliens are reconciled to Catholicism.  Instead, it follows the latter path, along the belief that the planet is an illusion created by the Adversary, and how the church must deal with it in that light.  This is a brave, and somewhat unexpected path, and I applaud the author for taking it.  Unfortunately, the setup is contrived artificially.<br />By setting the novel 100 years (at the time it was written) into the future, Blish creates two worlds - the fictional future and the alien world of Lithia.  Thus, the morality play takes place in an Earth that doesn't exist.  This distracts the reader, and detracts from the value of the novel.  Still, it's an interesting book, and I recommend it with the reservation that is seems contrived at times, in spite of the well-written prose.	2001-05-21
US	50762809	R1AFFY9PVC67U	0156005492	198406169	Under the Black Flag: The Romance and the Reality of Life Among the Pirates (Harvest Book)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Interesting and informative overview of piracy	This book gives an overview of the lives of the pirates of the 1700's (mostly).  It covers the careers and untimely demises of the most famous (Capt. Kidd, Blackbeard, Calico Jack, and Black Bart Roberts), talks about a number of less famous pirates, and covers some of the semilegal (depending on your nationality) exploits of the privateers (like Capt. Morgan).  The book deliberately limits itself to those pirates associated with the Atlantic Ocean/Caribbean Sea, although many of these pirates also operated in the Indian or Pacific Ocean, so there is a wide variety of locales to compliment the wide variety of people.<br />The descriptions of the pirate life and details of their exploits are well written, using a number of primary sources (logbooks, journals, newpaper articles).  They give a good feel for the &quot;reality&quot; of life among the pirates.  But what of the &quot;romance&quot;?  It's here as well, comparing the real pirates of history with our modern romantic view of pirates, based on Erol Flynn and Douglas Fairbanks, Captain Hook and Long John Silver, and the Pirates of Penzance.<br />It is an entertaining and informative book, especially for someone (like myself) whose previous exposure to piracy has been through Stephen Spielberg's movies and Sid Meier's computer games.  I suspect the serious naval historian may find the text someone cursory, but still useful because of the wealth of references.  Anyone interested in a general overview on pirates (and privateers) in this era should find this book an enjoyable read.	2001-05-14
US	50762809	RA4HJRDHRJ2A1	0671722069	212768920	Farnham's Freehold	Books	2	10	16	N	N	All the pieces are there, it just doesn't come together	Normally I don't like rating a book based on &quot;I liked it&quot; or &quot;I didn't like it,&quot; but in this case I made an exception.  All the pieces of a good book are there, but they don't come together.<br />It's the story of a man and his family (plus a couple more along for the ride) who are vaulted into the future by a nuclear blast.  In this future, dark skin = superiority (i.e. black africans, dark Indians, etc.) and light skin automatically makes you a member of the servant/slave class.  Back in the mid-60's, this would have been an uncomfortable (and/or controversial) setup.  This aspect kept my interest, but when you strip away the controversy value, there's little left to recommend this book.<br />Hugh, the main character (and patriach of the family) seems to alternate between extreme (at the time) liberalism and right-wing militarism, as required by the plot.  The other characters are barely developed at all.  The science is never explained (although, that's not the point of the book, so it's probably better that way).<br />Overall, I'd have to say I'm dissappointed.  Certainly, this is a better book than many of his juvenile novels, but it's far inferior to his other adult works, in my opinion, and hence the 2-star rating.	2001-05-04
US	50762809	R60X5EVA1JCH4	0345417623	786105285	Timeline	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Jurassic Park, circa 1357	This is the story of several archeologists who get the chance to &quot;go back in time&quot; (what that means exactly is a matter for debate) and basically become the fish out of water as a battle is about to take place around a disputed castle in France during the 100 Years War.  Essentially, it's an adventure story, and as such, it works very well indeed.  It's difficult to put this book down, and I read it very quickly and was sorry it was over.<br />In hindsight, however, there are a few things that don't stand up to scrutiny very well.  The most problematic is the fact that the idea of time paradoxes (i.e. killing your own grandfather so you couldn't have been born) is neatly dismissed early in the book by using the multi-universe theory.  However, multiple times after that, time paradoxes are used and argued over.  ARGH!  Pick one and stick with it.  Less irritating, but still problematic, is the stuff these people go through in the scant 36-odd hours they have in the past (before their machines run out of power).  It's inhuman the amount of energy they exert!  Finally, there's the fact that this book has the same plot as Jurassic Park: archeologists = paleontologists, knights = dinosaurs, time machine = cloning, catastrophic event trapping in past = catastrophic event allowing dinosaurs to escape pens, etc.<br />But, like any action movie, if you don't think too much about it, it's a great book.  I'm sure it'll make a great movie as well.  So, get this book, enjoy the ride, and don't let trivial things like time paradoxes upset you any more than they would during a Star Trek episode or Terminator 2.	2001-04-30
US	50762809	R27N53KVIEV14O	0771065140	350134757	A Military History of Canada	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Good overview of the history of the Canadian Military	This book, at only 350 pages, attempts to cover 4 centuries of Canadian military history; thus, detail is heavily sacrificed.  This is not necessarily a problem, if you're looking for an overview or introduction to the highlights of the topic.  This book is very good at supplying this overview.<br />Having said that, the average armchair historian may find the lack of detail frustrating, especially in areas where lots has already been written, e.g., the War of 1812 and both World Wars. This is balanced by an overarching view of the whole of Canadian history, linking themes and observing the evolution over the course of several hundred years.  For me, the interwar years were the most interesting because I've normally focussed on detailed histories of certain events in my past readings.  The post-WWII chapters are especially interesting and informative, and contain the most insightful analyses in the book.<br />There are several pages of good pictures.  It's always nice to put a face to the people involved.  However, the maps are generally not detailed enough to be useful, mostly overviews of the general lines of advance of the army, for instance.<br />So why only three stars?  The title of the book may be misleading - perhaps it should be &quot;A History of the Military of Canada&quot; instead.  Much more coverage is given to military organisation, conscription debates, etc. than are given to actual operations.  I feel there should have been a better balance between these two broad areas.  Even as an overview book, it could have stood to be 50-100 pages longer to flesh out the operational side.  This aspect dropped my ranking for the book.<br />In summary, this is a very good book if you are looking for an overview of the subject.  It lacks detail, as expected for its length, but this is compensated for by drawing together themes from widely separated events.  The major drawback is its emphasis on the organisational side to the expense of the operational.	2001-04-11
US	50762809	R2G1UCMNTTC3P7	0684839741	635285578	Good As Gold	Books	4	4	4	N	N	An amusing romp through politics and family	This book tells the story of a Jewish English professor's trials and tribulations. It spans his family life (including his large extended family), his sex life (he has serious affairs with several people who are not his wife), and his professional life, both as a teacher and a writer. He has a friend in the White House who insists that he must join the government unless he musn't, an FBI man following him around who thinks he's a disgrace to the Jewish faith, and a big brother who delibrately misquotes scientific knowledge to draw him into arguments.<br />All of these trials are scathingly sattirical, and often very funny. I was especially amused by the White House shenanigans, which sound a little too true to life, especially in light of the Monica Lewinsky scandal. My other favourite parts take place at the university, such as his admission that course descriptions and titles are written to attract students, not to reflect the course's content (e.g., the course &quot;Montheism and Monarchy from the Middle Ages to the Modern&quot; was actually a course on Shakespeare's tragedies and histories, &quot;except Julius Caesar because the Romans weren't monotheistic, and Othello, because there's no monarch&quot;). Other parts have not aged quite as well, but are still amusing.<br />There are a few problems with the book however. At times, Heller gets carried away to the point of being vitriolic. While this is amusing in small doses, there are times in the book where several pages (say 4 or 5) are devoted to trashing Henry Kissinger, or denigrating Jews. It goes on so long that you get the impression that it's now Heller saying these things, and not the character, which moves the book out of sattire and into political science.<br />All in all, however, if you can stand these overlong diatribes, it is an enjoyable and funny book. Maybe not quite as funny as Catch 22, but close.	2001-03-28
US	50762809	R12XIQZJAQNTO4	0140114068	181024941	The Mask of Command	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Interesting and insightful look at generals	John Keegan is a modern master of military analysis.  In this book, he applies his powers to the field of generalship, with consistently good results.  4 generals come under his scrutiny:<br />1.  Alexander the Great, with his propensity to lead from the front of his army, regardless of personal danger. 2.  The Duke of Wellington, following his comapaigns in India and Spain up to the Battle of Waterloo - a man who lead from the midst of his army, but close enough to be in considerable personal danger. 3.  Ulysses Grant in the American Civil War, who led from the rear but still close to his army. 4.  Adolf Hitler, leading the German forces in WWII, a man who led from as far in the rear as was practical, never seeing his armies, and rarely seeing his operational generals.<br />The analysis of each individual general is impeccable.  For each, there are sections dealing with their respective armies' staff structure, intellegence operations, and campaigns.  In addition, and more originally, each general is analysed as a product of the society they are raised in, and why they were so successful based on the political/military system they were born into and used.<br />Naturally, each general is not represented in a vacuum, but is compared with each of the other 3 main generals in the book, and also with each general's contemporaries.  The general theme is that as weapons came to have longer and longer ranges, generals naturally had to move further from the fighting front.  He praises Wellington and Grant's abilities to maintain contact with the fighting troops in spite of their removal from the front line.  At the same time, he condemns Hitler specifically (and by extension, many WWI generals, who shared this disease) for being too isolated to get a good feel for the mood and abilities of his army in any given situation.<br />The book finishes off with a section on generalship in the nuclear age, which was very interesting and well presented.<br />However, just as in Keegan's Face of Battle, there are some minor point with which I take exception in the analysis.  For example, there seems to be a serious dichotomy between Grant and Wellington on one hand and Alexander and Hitler on the other.  The latter pair were both the sole civilian dictators of their countries, in addition to being head of their armed forces.  This contrasts with Grant and Wellington who, although later rising to the highest political offices in their countries, were never civilian leaders and generals at the same time.<br />From any other author, this book would garner 5 stars, but as it isn't my favourite Keegan offering, I'll have to demote it to 4 stars.  Still, very highly recommended.	2001-03-14
US	50762809	R1DR6T1YE2UA4J	0553379267	284019128	A Canticle for Leibowitz (Bantam Spectra Book)	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Very interesting, but somewhat unsatisfying	As the book description tells us, this is the story of the abbey dedicated to St. Leibowitz (not the story of Leibowitz himself) who tried to save mankind's knowledge after a nuclear war.  There are three distincy parts to this story, each separated by several generations, linked by their common history (the abbey's quest for knowledge and preserving Leibowitz's memorabalia).  I do not normally enjoy post-apocalyptic stories, but this one seems more plausible than most (although you have to wonder how not a single high school science text survived the war, but only advanced circuit diagrams and such).<br />This book struck a chord with me for two reasons.  I am not a Catholic, but I am a Christian, and was pleasantly surprised by the depiction of the monks and priests.  Usually science fiction introduces Christianity (and religion in general) as being mythological, irrelevant, or evil.  Here, we have individual Catholics with assorted personalities praying for guidance, discussing theology with athiests, trying to puzzle out thousand year old manuscripts - in short, what you would expect monks and priests to do!  Secondly, as a chemist, I am in the science most traditionally maligned as &quot;evil&quot; (although genetics is giving us a run for the money at the moment).  The persecution of scientists trying to save information against destruction from the mob struck a chord for me as well.  It seems reasonable that post-war society would vow revenge on either religion (Look what God did to us) or science (Look what Science did to us), or both.  The characters in the book have the courage to stand up and say &quot;It's not God or Science that did this to you, it was Man,&quot; and the book seems to be saying &quot;If nuclear war really does happen, man has no one to blame but himself.&quot;<br />However, I was left at the end of the book feeling strangely unsatisfied.  Any given part of the book was interesting and enjoyable to read, sprinkled with wry humour and subtle messages. However ...  The fact that the three parts of the story are only loosely tied together, that the second part seems unfinished, and the bleak ending, leave me wondering what the point was.  That mankind is evil and doomed to destroy itself?  Or was it a warning against nuclear war (and if so, why bother having two)?  Finally, I can't help thinking that the story of Leibowitz himself would have been more interesting than the story Miller gave us.<br />Thus, I recommend this book as an interesting and I think realistic look at a post-apocalyptic world.  And I think it's best read as a warning - just because there's little chance of full-scale nuclear war at the moment, it doesn't mean that man's aggressive tendencies have diminished, and we're very capable of destroying ourselves.	2001-02-21
US	50762809	R3EEY8T6L021ZR	068486780X	129159315	Between Silk and Cyanide: A Codemaker's War, 1941-1945	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Fascinating reading, very entertaining	Just as the reviews on the back say, it's difficult to put this book down.  This is the story of a codemaker/codebreaker attached to SOE, the (British) agency responsible for supplying the sabateurs and secret armies in Occupied Europe in WWII.  Thus, we are given a fascinating account of some of those operations, such as the setting up of the Maquis and the Norsk Hydro mission (to destroy the heavy water plant in Norway).  The author's contribution to these events was as a briefing officer for the agents, teaching them coding, and as a codebreaker in trying to solve any indecipherable messages these agent sent back to SOE.  Because of this personal relationship, we get an insight into their personalities and the difficulties and dangers they encounter in the field.  Also interesting is the insider's account of the in-fighting between the various factions - SOE vs. C (intellegence), de Gaulle's Free French vs. the other French groups, friction between the country sections within SOE, etc.<br />In addition, we learn about Marks' efforts to create new, more secure coding methods, which are interspersed with the daily life of SOE.  He keeps the technical explanations to a minimum; however, this detracts from the book - he occasionally glosses over mathematical explanations and gives roundabout explanations, which are unstatisfying.  In fairness, this causes minimal disruption of the narrative, and perhaps some of the details are still classified?<br />There have been a number of memoirs about clandestine operations in WWII, and all of them (that I have read) have been accused of being partisan.  This one is no exception.  There are repeated references to the author's father's bookshop (including a photograph and a sketch of the store), repeated stories of how his charming personality won people over to the new coding methods, plugs for one of his movies (Peeping Tom), etc.  While he does include some personal indictments over things he did wrong, the book has the toneof self-congratulation in a number of places.  However, I only noticed this is hindsight - while reading it, I was always cheering for him while he was fighting intransigent officers, and he convinced me his ideas were right.<br />Therefore, this book is highly entertaining and informative.  If you are looking for a memoir as opposed to an exhaustive history on the subject, I heartily recommend this book.	2001-02-12
US	50762809	R1M2BXQ58AJWNA	0345320999	971763862	Between Planets	Books	3	3	5	N	N	One of Heinlein's better &quot;juveniles&quot;	This novel tells the story of a colony (on Venus) in rebellion against the parent government (on Earth), and of a young man caught in the middle.  At the level of a simple adventure story, it works, if you bear in mind that it was written in the 50's, and that it was written for young (say, 10-14) readers.<br />Having read several of Heinlein's juvenile novels, I would have to place this at or near the top of that group.  When compared to the likes of Rocket Ship Galileo or Space Cadet, this is a better book.  It is more interesting, a little more realistic, and certainly more fun to read.<br />However, it is not Starship Troopers or Stranger in a Strange Land, either.  By today's standards, much of the science fiction is ridiculous - giant intellegent dragons living on Venus?  The worst swear word is &quot;Aw, shucks&quot;?  Thus, it sounds very dated and quaint and even.... juvenile.  But that aside, it's a fun read and at 200 pages, it's not taking up much of your life.  As someone else mentioned, pick it up for a long flight when you just want something fun to read.	2001-01-30
US	50762809	R1FKIBVJKEVTWY	0393310434	919910822	The Norton History of Chemistry (Norton History of Science)	Books	4	17	19	N	N	Should be called &quot;History of Chemical Theory&quot;	I can envision three types of history when someone says &quot;History of Chemistry&quot; - 1. tales of the chemists themselves, including ancestory, childhood, education, etc. 2. tales of the experiments they perform and 3. a history of the theories to explain the experiments.  This particular book is heavily weighted on the third of these options, and thus, I would have titled this book &quot;History [or Development] of Chemical Theory&quot;.<br />Having narrowed down the scope of what is covered leaves more space to focus on the theory aspects, and it is done very well, especially in the post-Lavoisier era.  As mentioned in another review, the Alchemical and Phlogiston theories are much less well developed, which is disappointing.  I would also have liked to see more archeological information - a brief discussion of metallurgy in Rome or gunpowder in China would have been interesting, if not particularly scientific.<br />Finally, although the preface states that anyone with a high school knowledge of science should be able to follow the book, in practice I think that non-chemists (i.e. someone without 2 or 3 university courses) would find it to be heavy slogging.	2001-01-15
US	50762809	RJN4Q7I6DQ112	1857988361	695981491	Stand on Zanzibar	Books	2	16	27	N	N	Mixed feelings - impressive but dated	This novel is a vision of the future - and a cold and depressing one it is, with severe overcrowding, a war with China, economic hardships, racial and religious intolerance, etc.  However, it is engrossing and parts are absolutely brilliant (i.e. those parts with the Chad Mulligan character).  You are drawn into the imagery - immersed in Brunner's vision of the future.<br />However..... Am I the only one that thinks this novel is severely dated?  It is a product of Cold War hysteria. One of the main plot lines involves a &quot;backwards&quot; country announcing a new scientific (genetic) breakthrough that sends the western world into a panic of rioting, suicides, etc.  This seems highly unlikely to me - such a breakthrough would rather be met with skepticism (&quot;How could such a country do something we couldn't&quot;), or impatience for western scientists to figure out how they did it.  But widepread dispair?  I think not.  There are other reflections of this Cold War inferiority complex.<br />The highlight of this book is its ability to immerse you in the world of the future.  Unfortunately, it means that in the first 300 pages or so, little happens.  This would not be irritating if it wasn't so repetitious and random.  I was so frustrated that I almost put it down without finishing (something I've only ever done once before).  The final 300 pages are quite a bit better, but is mostly following standard-type plotlines, and so cannot make up for the repitition and irritation of the first half.<br />Finally, a pet peeve.  What possesses writers to automatically equate &quot;Christianity&quot; with &quot;Roman Catholicism&quot;?  In a book that is so careful to talk about different religions, this is very irritating.  And what possesses science fiction writers (Brunner included) to consider Christianity inherently evil but all other religions noble and uplifting?<br />To sum up - I can see why some people in the '60s would have thought this was an important work (Iwas born in the '70s, so perhaps I have not appreciated the subtleties).  However, the human race has not followed Brunner's path and now this book is just dreary, depressing, and out of date.	2000-12-18
US	50762809	R1HTT4QZQC13WY	077102004X	379327056	History of the English Speaking People - 4-Volume Box Set	Books	4	26	26	N	N	Fascinating reading, a little cursory	Naturally, a detailed history of the English speaking peoples would take a great many volumes, more than the 4 in Churchill's work.  Not surprisingly, it's a little sparse in detail in some places.  This is not generally a problem, since details about politics and battles from the 12th century are not well documented anyways.  This work does an admirable job hitting the highlights, and it is very easy to read.  It is logically set out, with some maps (I would have liked more) to help clarify certain situations.<br />I especially liked the earliest two volumes.  While they cover the most ground in terms of years (and are therefore the least detailed), they cover the time that most people know the least about.  Thus, it was almost like hearing the stories for the first time (or, at least, unfiltered through the words of Shakespeare).<br />There are some questionable choices of material, however.  For instance, the French revolution is covered in detail.  While an important event, it did not happen to English people directly - a statement of the results and the reaction in England would have sufficed.  Contrast this with the very sparse (2 pages, I think) coverage of the Jacobite Rebellion of 1746 - this was a major event for the Scottish nation (at least, for the Highlands), and does not receive appropriate consideration.  There are numerous other instances of questionable emphasis - virtually nothing is said of the colonisation of America until the American Revolution, and Ireland, Scotland, and Wales are only mentioned when in conflict with England.  Are they not also &quot;English Speaking People&quot;?<br />These are minor flaws, however.  All in all, I recommend picking it up if you see it in a used bookstore somewhere.  It doesn't have the personal feel of Churchill's &quot;Second World War&quot; set, but it is a fascinating and enjoyable romp through the ages.	2000-11-29
US	50762809	R1CK0EC2FDXJZ8	0553293419	200147133	The Currents of Space (The Empire Novels)	Books	4	12	16	N	N	Best of the Empire and Robot novels	Having read all of Asimov's early works, it's fair to say that this is the best of the crop of the Empire novels, and is better than all the Robot novels as well.  It's not quite up to the Foundation stories, hence the rating of 4 stars.<br />The plot is interesting, and has aged well.  There is not very much that makes you snicker in the light of current scientific knowledge.  He has a lot of characters for a 200 page book, but it is never confusing; they are individuals and it's easy to keep them separated in your mind.  The story draws you in and keeps you interested from beginning to end.<br />Asimov had the tendency to throw too many cliffhangers/revelations that didn't go anywhere in his early novels (as compared to, say, Nightfall), and it feels like he's cheaply manipulating the reader.  This book, while containing some of these events, are far more logical and less contrived than in the other Empire and Robot novels.  This makes it a far more enjoyable read.<br />It is a shame that these books are out of print.  I think the fact that 14 people have written reviews of this book points to the fact that there is still a following for Asimov out there, and maybe the publishers should print another edition of these early books, even in a single volume (as each Empire book is only 200 pages or so).	2000-11-10
US	50762809	R2LIR6H5CKZ9KO	0441005667	204362253	Forever Peace	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Pretty good on the action, unbelievable in the sci fi	Haldeman mentions in his intro blurb that this book is not a sequel to Forever War, but is sort of an extension thereof in his own mind.  I heartily agree, for the first 150 pages, that is.  This section of the book is very reminiscent - high tech soldiers fighting in a futuristic war.  The setup is good, the sci fi believable, and the action entertaining.  The interest generated by the action is maintained throughout the book.  Unfortunately, the sci fi and believability break down spectacularly.<br />There are two scientific breakthroughs at the heart of the story. I will not spoil it for someone who has not yet read the book, except to say that one of them has to do with bringing humans into the next level of evolution.  When an alien intellegence brings one human to the next level of evolution in 2001, it's believable.  When the entire planet spontaneously evolves in Childhood's End, it's not believable.  When scientists plan to force it onto an unwilling populace, as in this book, it's rediculous, even if you believe the sci fi setup of how they could do it.  Thus, the last 200 pages is this small cadre of scientists working their way through this utterly impossible plan.  You are simply left shaking your head.<br />Another near-fatal flaw is the way the book is written, half 1st person and half 3rd person.  One of my biggest pet peeves is first person books where you are not allowed into the thoughts of the narrator.  Isn't that the point of 1st person?  For example, in Presumed Innocent, we don't know if the narrator killed the woman until end of the book.  In this book, when Haldeman wants to spring a surprise on us, he switches to 3rd person, then back to first for the surprise.  It's inconsistent and a manipulative gimmick.  You can't trust (or even really like) the main character because of this.  It's surprising and dissappointing coming from Haldeman, considering how well he wrote Mandela's character in Forever War - you felt his isolation, fears, joys,and sorrows.  In this book, Class is just some guy.<br />Although it's better than a lot of other Nebula/Hugo award winners, it's also a lot worse than some of them, including this author's own Forever War.  It is somewhat entertaining and interesting, but will never make my favourite books list.	2000-10-18
US	50762809	R2MSQGM4KRF1G3	044180697X	922341911	This immortal	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Maybe not as good as Dune, but better than most	This novel tied for best science fiction novel of the year (1966), splitting the Hugo with Dune.  Dune is impressive and expansive.  This novel is not on the same scale, but it is very good.  Far better than the vast majority of Hugo and Nebula award winners that I have read, in fact.<br />The story follows that of Conrad, an immortal previously known by many other names, one of which was an infamous terrorist.  Hence, alternate title &quot;... And Call Me Conrad&quot;.  On first glance, it appears to be a standard post-apocalyptic tale of the Earth with a small population (in the low millions) and numerous radioactive areas and mutants running around.  A prosperous and highly advanced alien race has taken in any humans that want to leave (turning them into 2nd class citizens hired for menial labour), and they are buying up all the choice land on Earth itself as vacation spots.  <br />Those are the nuts and bolts of the story, but they aren't really important.  Zelazny has the ability to write intellegent science fiction/fantasy without making the average reader feel stupid, or making himself sound pretentious/arrogant (unlike, for instance, Samual Delany).  It is a little confusing at first, but everything sorts itself out by the end - there are Earth factions squabbling, an alien travelogue-writer whose true intentions are unknown, and some Greek mythology thrown in for good measure (because Conrad is Greek, it doesn't come out of the blue).  In a lesser book, the profusion of stories would be overwhelming (especially at 240 pages or so), but Zelazny balances them all in a thoroughly enjoyable manner.<br />The end does suffer a bit from some Deus ex Machina plot twists, which robs this book of its 5th star.  They are not really that bad, but they aren't very satisfying in what is otherwise a well thought out and interesting tale.	2000-09-26
US	50762809	R22SXTCRFZ2DM6	0425170349	626650351	Rainbow Six (John Clark Novel, A)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	So what if its repetative, it's great entertainment	As mentioned by others, this book does not have the most original of  plots.  In fact, I would submit that this is the least original of all of  Clancy's work thus far.  The Rainbow troopers are reminiscent of those in  Clear and Present Danger, and the Ebola epidemic was in the last  book!<br />But it doesn't matter.  This is a highly entertaining book, and  it's easy to cheer for the good guys and boo the bad guys.  The action is  well written, and the pace continues through the whole book.  We have nifty  gizmos, a good body count, and all those other thing we've come to expect  from Tom Clancy.<br />As a scientist, there were a few minor points to which I  took exception in his scientific explanations, but then the military is  Clancy's strong point, so I don't hold these minor quibbles against him.   So, I heartily recommend it.	2000-08-29
US	50762809	RJ9Q4KMHC42IY	0306809001	615560431	Steven Spielberg: A Biography	Books	3	17	21	N	N	Doesn't do justice to its impressive research	I want to give this book 4 stars, but I just can't bring myself to do it.  This book is certainly an impressive scholarly work - well researched,  reasonably well referenced, and when there is analysis offered, it is  thorough and insightful.<br />Unfortunately, the analysis is also my major  complaint with the book.  McBride seems to haphazardly pick pictures to  analyse, while ignoring others.  What possessed him to give devote more  pages to 1941 than all the Indiana Jones movies combined?  Further, he has  a tendency to focus too much on the story of the movie - I submit that most  people reading this book have seen these movies and can draw their own  conclusions about the significance of the story.  We'd rather hear about  how they were made, etc.  That is, more facts and less analysis would would  make this a better book.<br />The first half of the book is very good, because  the author takes his time explaining family connections, his amateur films,  etc.  It is a little repetitive (how often does McBride feel he has to tell  us that Spielberg felt like an outsider growing up?), but the detail and  narrative flow are very good, telling us a lot about the man behind the  movies.  Especially interesting is the information on S's TV work.<br />The  second half of the book rapidly degenerates into a shallow overview of  things we already know about Spielberg, and is very disappointing.  It's  almost like McBride had a page limit, and after spending so much time on  S's childhood, he had to rush through the remaining material, save for  sections on Schindler's List and Colour Purple (both deserving movies, of  course).  Even Jurassic Park is little more than a sideshow, wherein  McBride denegrates Crichton's novel (a fate that Peter Benchley's Jaws  seems to avoid, even though in my opinion JP is a work far superior to  Jaws) and comments on how Spielberg worked on the effects in Poland while  shooting Schindler's List.  Even his fine analytical powers seem to break  down.  What else could possess him to comment that Raider of the Lost ark  is racist and &quot;a soulless and impersonal film&quot;, while praising  Last Crusade as &quot;a graceful piece of popular filmaking...gratifyingly  free of racist overtones that blighted the two previous films.&quot;  Huh?   Has McBride actually watched these three movies together?  Or does he  really think it's okay to portray stereotyped Arabs, but not stereotyped  Indians or Nepalese?<br />At any rate, this is an important work, recommended  for anyone that wants to learn more about the early life and works of  Spielberg.  But I would suggest putting it down without reading the last 5  chapters.	2000-08-16
US	50762809	R32XOEKQE2N6J5	0060925779	664122214	The Wit & Wisdom of Winston Churchill	Books	4	23	24	N	N	Fun, great for the coffee table	This is an amusing (but by no means exhaustive) compilation of Winston  Churchill-isms.  The quotes listed herein range for the mundane (On  sandwiches: &quot;The bread must be wafer thin.  It is nothing more than a  vehicle to convey the filling to the stomach&quot;) to the world-renowned  (&quot;...an iron curtain has descended across the continent&quot;).  Of  course, he's at his best as a crusty old politician complaining or  retorting (on Atlee: &quot;He is a modest man with much to be modest  about&quot;), of which there are many examples in this little book.  As a  coffee table book, this is a great addition - you can pick it up and start  at any page and read a few quotes for a chuckle or an interesting  insight.<br />Hume does not pretend to have created the definitive quote book  on Churchill with this volume, but it works well as a sampling.  The only  complaint is the lack of context from which the quotes are taken sometimes  diminishes the impact.  This is a minor complaint, however, and this book  will supply me with quotes for the .sig file in my E-mails for years to  come.	2000-08-09
US	50762809	R2JPQNJ308TO8P	0819563366	897901382	The Einstein Intersection	Books	2	33	54	N	N	Not worth the effort	This seems to be the type of book that would either raise admiration or ire in the bosom of the reader.  I find myself in the latter category.  This novel is one of those philosophical/mythological science fiction  stories.  I find that such books require a large investment of time to  understand (flipping through encyclopedias and dictionaries) with my  physical sciences education.  Then, at 150 pages, after you've invested the  effort, the book ends.  Perhaps someone versed in the classics would enjoy  this book, but for me it was simply not worth the effort. <br />This book is  not really about anything, its about images.  They come fast and furious,  but there is little explained, and often times you are left wondering why a  certain image is introduced at all.  It seems like the author thought up a  clever image and decided to write it in, heedless of its relevancy.  This  happens often enough to by irritating.  <br />To sum up - if you are looking  for a hard science fiction novel, this is not the route to go.  It's not  scientific at all!  If you are looking for a modern mythological tale, I  would recommend something like Lord of Light (Zelazny) where I also had to  invest some extra effort, but the investment was well worthwhile.	2000-08-01
US	50762809	R3QSXP8YE70SSK	0802009808	391923380	Blood on the Hills: The Canadian Army in the Korean War	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Comprehensive within its limits, fairly dry prose	This book is exactly what the subtitle implies - a history of the Canadian army in Korea.  As such, the scope is limited to army operations and the political background required to justify the Canadian government's  commitment of ground troops in this war.  There is very little about the  forces of other countries involved except where they are intimately related  to the Canadian brigade.  This is a strength of the book - it has well  defined boundries and is thorough within those boundries, including copious  endnotes and sources.  The maps are limited, but easily accesible (all  collected at the beginning of the book, for ease of reference).<br />The  author is quite critical with the politicians both in Ottawa and  Washington, as well as the middle-ranking officers (say, major to colonel)  in the field and in the training camps.  He is highly critical at the lack  of training in Canada before shipping out, and the complacency that set in  along the front in the final year and a half of the war.  Interestingly, he  does not blame the senior officers, but rather the politicians, for this  complacency in the lines (not allowing vigourous offensive action while the  peace talks were stalemated but continuing, even in the face of powerful  Chinese attacks). <br />For someone unfamiliar with the Korean conflict, this  book would be inadequate.  Bercuson seems to assume at least a cursory  knowledge of the major events in the war.  I would suggest Hasting's  &quot;Korean War&quot; before reading this.  Additionally, it seems a  little strange to go into such detail on the army operations without  mentioning Canadian naval and air forces.  At 300 pages, surely he could  have included this material - it feels incomplete without it.  Finally, the  prose is a little too dry.<br />All in all, this is a good, but not great,  book not up to the standard of the same author's Maple Leaf vs. the Axis.	2000-07-27
US	50762809	R3LNFHLQMLQJID	0812544250	572133449	The Wanderer	Books	2	4	6	N	N	A random jumble of storylines	This book has some good moments, but they are scattered around haphazardly in a seemingly random jumbling of events.  <br />The arrival of the Wanderer, a planet-sized spaceship, wreaks havoc with the Earth - tides, earthquakes,  etc. - and the book covers a range of stories of people all over the Earth  affected by the Wanderer.  While I usually don't mind several unrelated  stories occuring simultaneously, several of the storylines in this book  seem pointless.  He tries to do too much with too few pages, and the result  is that you don't care about most of the characters.  Caring about the  characters is of utmost importance in a disaster book (or movie), or you  don't care if the people live or die.  This can be alleviated (for me, at  least) if there is some interesting scientific explanations of what is  occuring, but there is little of that in this book.<br />This could have been  an interesting story, and in fact the last 50 pages or so are reasonably  good.  It doesn't make up for the first 250, though.	2000-07-17
US	50762809	R3FU47F2LSO1JK	0060975199	106531097	Biology as Ideology: The Doctrine of DNA	Books	4	34	36	N	N	Political Philosophy meets Biology	This book is exactly what the title implies - a treatise on how many people in the scientific community (including physical and social science) and in the general public have come to regard biology, or more specifically  DNA, as The Answer.  Just as religion had The Answer in previous ages, so  now, we &quot;know&quot; that all the answers lie in understanding our DNA.   This has spread to all aspects of human society, from justification of our  capitalist monetary system to modern medicine.  To emphasise the point, a  quote from the text: &quot;[An] editor of Science, what asked why the Human  Genome Project funds should not be given instead to the homeless, answered,  'What these people don't realise is that the homeless are impaired....  Indeed, no group would benefit more from the application of human  genetics.'&quot;<br />This is a chilling statement, and we're fortunate to  have books like these pointing out the ethical and scientific problems in  such pronouncements.  Prof. Lewontin debunks the myth that DNA is the be  all and end all.  In a wide ranging series of essays, he attacks the claims  of the Human Genome Project scientists (I want to point out that he does  not attack the science itself, which is fine, simply the rationale in doing  it) and others who are trying to find a panacea in understanding genetics.   He argues that while DNA is important, it does not define what it means to  be human, any more than a pile of bricks defines a house, and it certainly  can't be used to justify capitalism, fascism, or anarchical government  systems, as claimed by some political philosophers.  Or that people are  homeless because they have defective DNA.<br />There are two minor points that  I must make objection to.  The first is that he seems to imply that  scientists (specifically, those working on the human genome) make wild  claims as to how much their research will benefit mankind, and society is  duped into believing them.  While this is undoubtedly the case some of the  time, in my experience, the media often exaggerate the claims of scientists  to make a better story.  &quot;This project will help us understand cancer  better, and will lead to better treatments&quot; becomes &quot;Cause of  cancer discovered!&quot;  Lewontin tends to blame the scientist entirely  for these grandiose claims.  Secondly, I believe basic research is  valuable, thus the Genome Project is important, something Lewontin doesn't  seem to want to admit.<br />Those two points aside, however, this is an  interesting and important book, if a little one-sided.  Highly recommended.	2000-07-05
US	50762809	R1I7ACQO6YY8Z4	0441727859	899400495	Rite of Passage	Books	3	10	15	N	N	Interesting, but unsatisfying	Clearly I disagree with the majority of reviewers that have posted their views on this book.  There are a number of good things about it, and a number of bad.<br />First the good things.  It is easy to read and  entertaining.  There are some interesting ideas (some interesting ethical  questions that are bandied about by the characters).  The adventure part of  the story is fun.  And the main character is well written and you  sympathise with her.<br />Now the bad points.  While the adventure is fun,  it's too cartoony.  This book would make a good movie, but doesn't work if  you think about it.  More importantly, Panshin seems to shy away from the  real ethical questions, trying to portray everything in black and white  terms.  Without giving away the last half of the book, it's difficult to  clarify.  Simply put, the debates are too short and the people too  polarised into one camp or another.  It rings hollow.  And the points they  debate are not the most important ones, in my opinion.<br />At any rate, it's  a little disappointing because of the well-written main character and the  interesting setup.  If the book had been twice as long, it might have been  able to work out its ethical dilemmas.  As it is, everything is rammed  through without deep thought.  A pity.	2000-07-03
US	50762809	R2WAFN8EFP25ES	0137417861	89973532	Chemistry for Changing Times	Books	4	30	33	N	N	Best of the liberal arts texts	There are two people that would be interested in this book - those that are enrolled in a liberal arts chemistry course, and those that are just interested in learning about chemistry.  This book suits either type of  person admirably.<br />While setting up a liberal arts course in chemistry  (i.e., Chemistry for Non-science Majors), we previewed a number of possible  texts.  This one, in my mind, stood above all the others that I looked at.   There are a number of reasons why:<br />1.  The scope - this book covers a  vast number of topics, from basic structure of the atom to environmental  chemistry to toxins and drugs to combustion and energy.  We are designing a  survey course, and this spread is ideal.  Other texts tended to focus too  much, especially on environmental issues (e.g., the ACS's Chemistry in  Context).<br />2.  Descriptive, non-mathmatical.  Since this course has no  prerequisites, not even grade 10 math, we needed a book that minimised  mathematics.  Other books, such as Kelter/Carr/Scott's Chemistry: World of  Choices, was too mathematical for this type of course.<br />3. The pictures -  this book simply looks good.<br />Thus, if you're looking for a text for a  liberal arts chemistry course, or if you just want to know more about  chemistry and are not mathematically inclined, I would recommend this book.	2000-06-29
US	50762809	R18YIJ2XZR7LQ9	034538623X	484061988	The Guns of August (Modern Library 100 Best Nonfiction Books)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Almost a 5 - fascinating and even-handed	This is a very entertaining and readable book about the first month of WWI.  The scope is basically the assassination of the Archduke in Sarajevo to the eve of the Marne (and includes the Battle of Tannenburg on the  eastern front).  Because most of the action occurs in the western front at  this stage of the war, the book concentrates there.  It develops the  Schlieffen Plan and the French war plans (Plan 17) and explains how the  high commands of both countries attempt to carry out these plans  irrespective of what the other side is doing.<br />Tuchman does not assign  blame.  She tries her best to give all sides of a disagreement in policy or  action.  This even-handed account is most welcome.  The best example of  this approach is her treatment of Lanrezac, commander of the French 5th  army from the start of the war to a few days before the Marne - she points  out that he was the man most essential to preventing the Germans from  turning the French flank in the early battles, but then agrees with his  dismissal at the eve of the Marne: &quot;He was not the man to lead the  offensive.&quot;<br />The only person she completely villifies is Sir John  French, leader of the BEF.  Although I get the impression that she would  have forgiven his follies if only he hadn't written a book after the war  full of inconsistencies and, to use Tuchman's word,  &quot;lies.&quot;<br />Most importantly, the book is very well-written,  enjoyable and clear to read, and even witty.  Unfortunately, there are some  spots with vague allusions to historical events and people without  explanantion.  While a practising historian probably finds this humourous  or helpful, it is murky for an amateur.  This is a minor point, though, and  on the whole, this book is stellar.  Highly recommended.	2000-06-28
US	50762809	R2AMCFY987L3GQ	0395902223	522434722	General Chemistry	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Good, general, nice diagrams	We use this text for our freshman chemistry course at Trent University, and have for a number of years (previous editions).  It is equal or superior to virtually all other texts that I am aware of for a general  course that includes both chemistry majors and others (biology, physics,  etc.).  Concepts are explained well, diagrams are easy to understand, and  there is a profusion of examples in the text.  It also includes a  biochemistry chapter, which many other texts do not have.  With the  addition of bichem to many 1st year curricula, this is important.<br />If  teaching a more rigorous/physical course directed solely to chem majors,  this book may not be the best choice (perhaps Oxtoby and Nachtrieb would be  a better choice).<br />This book is generally superior in quantity and quality  of questions at the back of the chapter.  All questions are paired with the  odd numbered question having the answer in the back of the book.  Students  really like this feature.<br />As an instructor, there are a number of extras  that are very helpful, including an alternate example manual (with examples  to use in class that are complimentary to the text), a full set of figures  on a CD-ROM which are easily transferred to Powerpoint for use in lectures,  and a complete solutions manual.<br />There are a few small problems.  The  order in the text is not the order I teach in, but the chapters are pretty  good at delineating the material so you can teach out of order.  For  example, Chapter 6 is thermochemistry, and Chapter 18 is the rest of  thermodynamics - why 12 chapters between them?  (To be fair, this system is  used in a number of freshman texts.)  Web resources for the student are  lacking in that they cost extra (at least, in Canada), something many other  publishers offer for free.<br />All in all, this is a very good text for a  general course in freshman chemistry.  It is well indexed, and should also  be of use to anyone that needs a chemistry reference book.	2000-06-27
US	50762809	R1PR396E3AZ7GZ	0716736241	296298635	Inorganic Chemistry, Third Edition w/CD	Books	3	23	24	N	N	Good scope, difficult to read, many errors	Perhaps I didn't pay as much attention to the 2nd edition, but it seems to me that this 3rd edition of Shriver and Atkins is not as well written and contains more errors than its predecessor.  Or perhaps, the other author of  the previous two editions, Cooper Langford, was the best writer of the  three.<br />First, the good points.  I chose this book as the text for my 3rd  year inorganic courses because of the scope.  No other textbook out there  covers the same breadth of material.  Meissler/Tarr and Cotton/Wilkinson  both suffer from too heavy an emphasis on metal-based chemistry, which  doesn't help those of us teaching 2 half-courses in inorganic chemistry -  one on the main group, one on transition metals.  The material has been  kept current with examples from the (relatively) recent literature,  something other texts do not do well.<br />Now for the bad.  Atkin's books are  usually difficult to read, but at least they are rigourous and complete  (e.g., his Physical Chemistry, which I find an invaluable reference).   Unfortunately, in this book he does not improve his prose, and the  thoroughness is lacking, as well as the profusion of errors make it  difficult and confusing for the student.<br />What does this all mean?   Someone needs to write an inorganic text that is exactly this book, except  better written.  I will continue to use this text, but I will continue to  check all the other new ones in the hope of finding a better one.	2000-06-21
US	50762809	R35DOVQXNRQCBF	0471187100	409294289	Solids and Surfaces: A Chemist's View of Bonding in Extended Structures	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A straightforward, visual examination of a difficult subject	This book bridges the language gap between chemistry and condensed matter physics.  Starting from the language that all chemists are comfortable with - that of molecular orbitals - Hoffman builds up the idea of bonding in  extended structures (solids) as if a solid was just a giant molecule.  This  is done with a minimum of mathematics, mostly using simple and graphical  representation.  As a primer to the area of solid state chemistry, this  book is invaluable.<br />I'm not sure if physicists, starting from the other  end of the language will find it as useful as a chemist, but it should be  straightforward for them as well, giving them the chemist's point of view  (language).<br />This is a short book, and wisely does not try to exceed its  boundries, that of an introduction/overview.  For a more mathematical  treatment, I would suggest Burdett's &quot;Chemical Bonding in  Solids.&quot;  If you only want an introduction written in plain language  with lots of graphics, this is the book for you.	2000-06-21
US	50762809	R1BEW85DYPKVGJ	0449219771	679377355	The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Definitive narrative on the 3rd Reich	This colosus of a book will tell you most of what you need to know about the 3rd Reich's inner workings.  I say most in that this book focuses on the top dogs in Nazi Germany - for example Eichmann is only mentioned a  couple of time, as is Mengele.  In addition, not all the facts had come to  light when the book was written, a fact that Shirer readily admits.  However, the advantage of having this book written so soon after the facts  means that many of the participants (those that weren't executed after the  Nurnberg trials) were still alive and knew the author personally (or at  least by reputation) due to his coverage of German affairs for the US  media.  He used this contact on several occasions to flesh out the official  documents.<br />Because of the fact that the author was a correspondent, the  &quot;Rise&quot; part of the Nazi party is a far more personal and  interesting read.  It is liberally sprinkled with personal observations and  commentary.  After the American journalists were expelled from Germany, the  book is not quite as interesting, but still a page turner.<br />The highlights  for me were the comparative critisisms, e.g. comparing Guderian's claims  (in his autobiography) with the information taken from OKW or other  people's diaries.  A lot of the Axis leaders tried to downplay their roles  in books after the war (another prime example is Speer); the book points  out the lies and half-truths.<br />In addition to the value of the book for  giving a full and coherent picture of the workings of the Third Reich, I've  found it to be an invaluable reference tool.  I come back to this book  again and again to look up information when reading other history books,  when something pertaining to the era is mentioned in the media, etc.  It is  well indexed and sources are explicitly defined.  Essential for the  armchair historian as well as those more professional ones.	2000-06-20
US	50762809	R3RJPO85T2CHR5	067166834X	595058146	The Korean War	Books	4	5	5	N	N	An interesting look at the war	This is the only book I have read on the Korean War.  Another reviewer has suggested that this book is best viewed as a supplement to other, larger works.  However, from the point of view of a novice, I found this book to  be illuminating and interesting in its own right.<br />To me, this was an  even-handed account of the war, trying to give at least some rationale to  the actions of all the countries involved , including the Chinese (I was  naturally disappointed, being Canadian, about the lack of information on  our troops, but it was a relatively small complement).  <br />All in all, I  would call this an interesting analysis on this &quot;forgotten&quot; war.   Recommended.	2000-06-19
US	50762809	R2YZ182GVZ5W4C	0441790348	739394524	Stranger in a Strange Land (Remembering Tomorrow)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Entertaining if a bit preachy	Heinlein does not pull punches.  He tells you exactly what he thinks about a number of things up to and including evangelists in this entertaining book.  It is not really science fiction, but rather a fish out of water  observing the human comedy as an outsider.  The fact that Valentine Michael  Smith was raised by Martians is a quaint notion today, but it doesn't  matter if he's a Martian or an orphan raised by wolves.  It allows Heinlein  to step outside humanity.<br />Some of his points you'll find infuriating,  some of them will ring a positive chord.  But mostly it's presented in a  way to make you think rather than to influence you (the end goes a little  overboard in preachiness, but it's not too irritating).<br />Most importantly,  it is not dated.  The issues it comments on are still relevant today.  And  it is presented as a highly entertaining story!  So kick back and enjoy  this book.	2000-06-19
US	50762809	R39BFQYWPL66EA	0345350561	458314472	Rendezvous with Rama	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Fascinating	Michael Crichton could have written this novel....  Relative to most of Clarke's other works, the charaters are 1-dimensional.  However, this does not detract from the overall enjoyment.  This is the most plausible version  of a first contact that I've ever read.  It keeps you on the edge of your  seat: Are there natives aboard?  Is this a robot ship?  Is it going to stop  in the solar system or keep going?  These questions lead to others, and the  book keeps its hooks in you until about 2000 pages later you've finished  the 4th book in the series.  This is by far the best because it's the  simplest.  It's a great story of discovery.  Highly recommended.	2000-06-19
US	50762809	R91GDOSHUJNG8	0312288689	207148935	Fight for the Falklands	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Somewhat cursory, focused on British side	What this book does, it does reasonably well.  What it doesn't do lowers it to 3 stars.  There is very little background information, virtually no information about the Argentine forces (save what they do in response to  the British forces), and little on the root causes of steps that led  Argentina to sieze the islands.<br />What it reads like is more of a  blw-by-blow account (from a British point of view) of the battle to expel  the Argentine forces from the islands.  It is easy to read, and the limited  geographical scope of the war allowed the reader to follow the steps with a  limited number of maps.<br />A little more analysis would also have been nice  - a comparison between the hardware of the 2 sides, the tactics, and maybe  some comments about the state of mind of the islanders would have helped  flesh out the narrative.	2000-06-19
US	50762809	R22768E9DDDARZ	0441783589	242880671	Starship Troopers	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Realistic science fiction warfare	There are only 2 books that I've read that present any kind of realistic interpretation of an interstallar army (as opposed to navy) - this book and Haldeman's Forever War.  (and I've read a lot of SF)  If you liked  Troopers, I would recommend reading Haldeman's book.<br />Why is this book  good?  It feels right.  Anyone who's watched an episode of Star Trek and  thuoght to themselves, &quot;what kind of military would allow this?&quot;  will appreciate the fact that these people are indeed soldiers, and they  are fighting to protect the Earth from alien invaders.<br />Others have  commented on the analogies to the Vietnam war.  That's a little before my  time, but I can assure you that this is a highly entertaining book in its  philosophy as well as its action, irrespective of its status as a parable.  Recommended.	2000-06-19
US	50762809	R1TZWE36VKHTLK	0679774009	295997247	Dancing Naked in the Mind Field	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A portrait of the scientist as a human being	For those of you who know Don Cherry, I can only compare Mullis with that legendary hockey personality.  They both let you know exactly what they think, no holds barred.  Mullis' autobiography is well written,  fascinating, and even infuriating at times.  The central theme seems to be,  &quot;don't believe everything you hear&quot;.  As a research scientist  myself, I must strongly echo that sentiment.  There are usually (and I am  not exaggerating when I say &gt;75%, at least in my field of chemistry)  errors in the reports of scientific matters in the media, even from such  reputable services as AP and CNN.<br />Therefore, read this book, enjoy it,  and don't believe any of it just because Mullis says it's so.  Sure, I'll  take his word for it if he says there's no definitive link between HIV and  AIDS, but he didn't convince me atrology is real.  Just mentioning these  two diverse topics gives you a flavour for what it'll be like to enter the  Mind Field.	2000-06-15
US	50762809	RUREUJW6KA11H	0345412087	948808775	Striking the Balance (Worldwar Series, Volume 4)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Repetitive, yes, but a good ending to the series	Having called this a good ending to the series, allow me to elaborate.  I was expecting a big blowout.  Instead, it kind of petered out, as if it ran out of steam.  However, it is more realistic this way - a lot of wars peter  out when the combatants are tired of fighting.  And it served as a useful  setup for the Colonisation series.<br />The major gripe is the same as I've  had with the other books in the series - too repetitive!  I guess this is  useful if you had to wait a year between installments, but surely if you've  read all the 3 previous books, you realise by now that the Race has a long  history, that they can't mate without female scent pheremones, that Earth  is colder than Home, etc.  Still, an entertaining end to an entertaining  series.  I will definitely pick up this alternate history in Colonisation.	2000-06-15
US	50762809	RPVNQ02CC326B	014024364X	933995871	A People's Tragedy: The Russian Revolution: 1891-1924	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Long, detailed, and fascinating	This is an excellent book.  It goes into great detail, focusing on all aspects of the revolution, from the political and military to the plight of the peasants on their farms.  And it is all written in well-formed prose  that is easy to follow, even for someone who's previous knowledge of that  period of Russian history could be called rudimentary at best.<br />I do have  one complaint about this book, and this is why I only gave it 4 stars.   That is in the subject of dates.  Due to the way he wrote the book, he  jumps back and forth in time to follow certain specific thoughts through to  their logical conclusions.  This is a strength of the book, but in listing  dates, he often assumed you could keep track of the years, and so he would  say &quot;come November, xxxx happened.&quot;  However, to put it in the  larger context required a year, and furious flipping back many pages to  find the year was infuriating for this armchair historian.<br />Other than  that flaw, however, I have nothing but praise for the book.  The pictures  were an added bonus, and brought some of the points home vividly.   Recommended.	2000-06-15
US	50762809	R2DEHM15TH5JTX	0312966121	650875554	Hostile Waters	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Gripping!	I could not put this book down.  If this were fiction, I wouldn't have believed it.  But as this is a true story, and well written to boot (no pun intended), I highly recommend it to anyone with interest in the sea, the  cold war, or the military.	2000-06-09
US	50762809	R2BIYAA2CEJVGB	0385492081	82772270	Into Thin Air: A Personal Account of the Mt. Everest Disaster	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Slick, fascinating, impossible to put down	This book has become the definitive version of the tragic season on Everest in 1996.  This is because it is the best written and most complete account.  Boukreev's The Climb is an essential second version, and I would  highly recommend reading that after reading this.  As Krakaur himself  admits, his brain was not working 100% correctly on the fateful days in  question, as the oxygen content at 8800 metres is far below that required  to sustain full human life and function.  Thus, it cannot be considered the  &quot;true&quot; account of what happened, but merely a  &quot;probable&quot; account, and Boukreev disagrees with some of his  interpretations.<br />For pure reading value, however, this book is highly  recommended.  The account is fascinating, chilling, and haunting.	2000-06-09
US	50762809	R37M46LUKX3E39	0684923025	829960059	Rocket Ship Galileo	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Too dated to be enjoyed as much as his other &quot;jouveniles&quot;	Being one of his first novels (the first, perhaps?), I don'twant to be overly harsh, but this book seems quaint and silly today,even bearing in mind it was written for young readers.  The Nazis arehackneyed, the kids (!) that build the ship are essentially interchangeable cliches, and the leader of the expedition is 2-dimensional.  <br />Having said that, I enjoyed parts of the book; it was certainly worth the ( ) (Canadian dollars, even) I paid for it. Read it as a nostalgic trip down memory lane from the time when men were men, women were women, and fuzzy little creatures from Alpha Centauri were fuzzy little creatures from Alpha Centauri.  Oops, there I go mixing up quotes again.  END	2000-06-09
US	50762809	R3APA1CTQ1G7CR	0140048979	773818200	The Face of Battle: A Study of Agincourt, Waterloo, and the Somme	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Raw war, interesting analysis, but not Earth-shattering	This book succeeds tremendously in presenting each battle on its own.  The raw, terrible face of war is shown.  I was most fascinated by the portrayal of Agincourt (especially since I saw Branaugh's Henry V on TV a couple  months later, giving an interesting contrast), but the other battles are  also gripping accounts.  My disappointment was the comparison between the  battles.  These parts didn't seem to be as insightful as they are in  Keegan's other works that I've read.  This doesn't detract from the  enjoyment, and this book from any other author would garner 5 stars.  From  Keegan, with his pedigree, I can only give it 4 stars.  Still highly  recommended.	2000-06-09
US	50762809	R2A8UKJ393DY6Q	0312206372	8148905	The Climb: Tragic Ambitions on Everest	Books	4	17	19	N	N	Difficult to read alone, but essential for Everestophiles	As with most of the reviewers, I shall compare this book with Into Thin Air.  I will echo the sentiments of others who say The Climb is not as well written or as lucid.  It does, however, contain a good deal of information  that is lacking in Krakaur's account.<br />I must differ from other reviewers  in some points, however.  I never felt that Krakaur blamed Boukreev overly  harshly when reading Into Thin Air.  After having read The Climb, I have  not changed my opinion.  The fault seems to lie with Mother Nature (and  perhaps Hall and Fischer).  I do, however, faintly echo the complaint of  some reviewers of Into Thin Air with this book - it seems a little  self-serving to me.  Krakaur at least gave the appearance of being  impartial, and this book has the disadvantage of being a rebuttal at times  (both because it was written after and also because I read it after).<br />I  recommend this book, but not solely on its own merits.  As numerous  mountaineers have pointed out, the brain doesn't work correctly at 9km of  elevation, so reading multiple versions of the same story is necessary.   This book certainly fills an important spot, but if you only read 1 account  of this fateful Everest expedition, I would have to recommend Into Thin  Air.  BTW, the IMAX Everest film also has some good material on this trek,  for those interested.	2000-06-09
US	50762809	R19P8HEKZYECXV	0380708213	223407615	The Forever War	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Plausible science, interesting fiction	I must admit that I would rather have good and interesting science over good and interesting characterisation.  This book certainly delivers on the science side - a fascinating look at someone aging a few years while the  Earth ages a few centuries, and the consequences thereof.  I have never  believed that interstellar war could be possible if Einstein's speed of  light limit is never worked around, but this novel keeps this limitation  and works with it in a well-thought out and fascinating way.<br />I also  enjoyed the military portrayal - unlike the so-called military in Star Trek  and other science fantasy works, this book rings true, from bewildering  orders from superiors to questions about order validity (especially  interesting is the point where Mandella, the main character, is the CO of  the base and he is warned not to leave his office because he'd probably be  murdered).  It reminds me of Starship Troopers (the book, not the movie,  perish the thought!) in presenting what I feel is a plausible science  fiction military.<br />This review may make the book sound sterile, but rest  assured there are interesting characters, compelling conflicts, and all the  rest that is required to make a great book.  Recommeded.	2000-06-09
US	50762809	R1SEFMTYBRBN93	0870215574	542267915	Run Silent, Run Deep (CLASSICS OF NAVAL LITERATURE)	Books	3	11	47	N	N	The cliches started here	Upon reading this book, I found it impossible to igonore the cliches.  Of course, this book set the standard, and I'm sure in 1967, this was cutting edge.  I am reminded of a screening of Casablanca that a friend and I went  to, where we started counting lines/situations that have since become  cliches.  We gave up at 14 as I recall, and that was only an hour into the  movie.  This book suffers the same problem, being too much imitated that  once you've seen/read Das Boot, Ice Station Zebra, and Red October, it  seems like old hat.<br />Further, does anyone else find the romantic subplot  stupid?  Does anyone else find the rah rah attitudes grating?  Okay, I've  heard that real submariners are difficult people to get along with, but the  characters seem so one-dimensional.  I can't give this book the ringing  endorsement given it by others, I'm afraid.  Again, it may be the fact that  it's been ripped off too many time, but when laid alongside other submarine  books, it doesn't stack up for me.  I'm giving it the benefit of the doubt  with 3 stars.  My head wants to give it 2.	2000-06-09
US	50762809	R2YSKLPPPDBB0T	0345423496	284653366	3001: The Final Odyssey	Books	3	2	5	N	N	A meander down memory lane	As usual for Clarke, the science is pretty good.  Unfortunately, there's so much time spent dropping names of famous scientists, events, etc, that it's distracting.  By analogy, could we discern between the important  people at the end of the 10th century as opposed to those in the 9th or  11th?  Of course, not, unless you're a professor of history specialising in  that time period.  There is such a character in 3001, but it seems tacked  on.  More interesting is the subplot with the monolith and the contact with  Dave/Hal.  <br />Sure, there are incosistencies, as pointed out by others, but  none so major as the Saturn/Jupiter shift between 2001 and 2010 (i.e. 2010  is a sequel to 2001 the movie, not 2001 the book), but, like Asimov, Clarke  never lets a little thing like continuity get in the way of writing a story  the way he thinks it should be written at the time he's writing it.  That  he's forthcoming and honest about it makes me tend to ignore it.<br />Looking  at the total of the story at the end, you can't help but feel a little  nostalgia for this particular little universe Clarke has created.  While  not up to the standards of 2001 and 2010, I don't think it would suffer a  comparison with 2061.  It really is time for this storyline to terminate,  and I am encouraged that he's called this one the Final Odyssey.	2000-06-09
US	50762809	R1AQDEHUKUZAFV	0451166760	344110456	Beyond this Horizon	Books	2	3	9	N	N	Rubbed me the wrong way	I'm not really sure what it was about this book, but most of it rubbed me the wrong way.  Granted, the prose is okay (not Heinlein's best however), but the story is too moralising (and often taking the opposite side I would  choose - &quot;an armed society is a polite society&quot;? ), parts of the  plot are bizarre, and as another reviewer pointed out, the last third of  the book drags on with philosophising that doesn't seem to go anywhere (at  least, not anywhere interesting).  Certainly sub-par for Heinlein, both in  the science and in the plot-line.	2000-06-09
US	50762809	R2MBMK71PFB0XU	0140235426	913684934	Six Armies in Normandy: From D-Day to the Liberation of Paris; June 6 - Aug. 5, 1944; Revised	Books	5	11	12	N	N	An interesting twist, but never gimmicky	I admire the way Keegan looks for similarities and contrasts through the years or across the services of different countries.  This book is a fascinating account of the liberation of France in 1944 told episodically  through the eyes of the different armies involved.<br />While the table of  contents makes this book seem like a gimmick, the different armies are  carefully delimited and their exploits examined in the time period  investigated, and the parts fit together seamlessly.  I greatly admire  Keegan for his ability to step back and see things as a whole.<br />For a more  comprehensive look at D-Day itself, go to Ryan's Longest Day.  For an  interesting survey across the spectrum of nations involved and for a less  detailed, longer-ranged investigation, I highly recommend this book.	2000-06-09
US	50762809	R38ZO0P8IU6FIB	0517138417	527532142	Star Trek Memories	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Surprise!  Shatner can poke fun at himself	Clearly William Shatner does not take himself too seriously.  This book is an amusing romp through the world of the The Original Series.  Not meant to be the definitive work by any means, but rather a collection of anecdotes  and musings on what it was like in the early days of Star Trek.  It is more  effective this way, as you get the feel without being distracted by the  details.<br />I was most surprised by how candid Shatner was in presenting  other points of view.  The one that sticks out most in my mind is where  Nichelle Nichols won't let him leave her office.  &quot;Now I'm going to  tell you why I hate you,&quot; she says (I'm paraphrasing here as I can't  remember the exact quote).  Granted, it's mostly from Shatner's point of  view, but such additions are a nice touch.<br />I don't know how much his  coauthor contributed, but the book reads smoothly and quickly.  Recommended  for Star Trek fans or anyone with an interest in the development of  television.	2000-06-06
US	50762809	R5UBVSPDFMFTE	0773759522	383842137	Maple Leaf Against the Axis: Canada's Second World War	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A good survey of Canada's contribution	Canada's contribution to the Allied war effort in WWII is often overlooked, especially when considering army and air campaigns.  Indeed, a good many Canadians served in the British military instead of the Canadian  (especially the RAF), and they get lost in the shuffle.  Contrasted against  that, however, is the fact that the Canadian army had a D-Day beach to  itself (Juno), and this army played a major role in the continental  campaign that followed (just ask the Dutch and Belgians), not to mention  the previous battles in Italy.  This book helps to fill the gap in nicely,  if in less detail than I would have liked.  It is obvious that Bercusen has  studied his material. The addition of some photos was a nice touch.  Recommended for anyone with an interest in Canada's contribution in the  &quot;last great war.&quot;  I look forward to reading his offering on  Canada's effort in the Korean War (Blood on the Hills).	2000-06-05
US	50762809	R3U179P8SYZVUE	0345322401	193021593	The Songs of Distant Earth	Books	5	1	2	N	N	One of my all-time favourites	Don't ask me why, but this book is one of my top 5 all-time favourites.  The science isn't particularly interesting, there are few unique ideas, and the characters are just characters.  However, it all comes together and  feels right.  I highly recommend it.	2000-06-05
US	50762809	R3P4ES225JNZF6	0393319601	185361414	The Safeguard of the Sea: A Naval History of Britain 660-1649	Books	4	4	8	N	N	A good, if cursory survey; slightly anglocentric	I am not an historian, and this is my first foray into the world of naval history, pre-19th century. After reading this book, I would like to learn more, which is one of the highest endorsements I can give.  I cannot agree  with one of the other reviewers in his map complaint - the maps are there,  they are simply very difficult to navigate, as they appear scattered  through the text, and are not necessarily placed in relevant sections.  I  must also object to the subtitle - &quot;Naval History of Britain.&quot;   The author mentions numerous times how this is supposed to be a history of  Britain and not England, but the text does not bear this out.  This is  highlighted by the fact that he states (for example) that Scottish ships of  certain eras were superior to English ones, but gives no details on  Scottish shipbuilding methods, political structure, etc.  Perhaps this is  because of record-keeping?<br />At any rate, I recommend this book if you have  an interest in naval history, and although no single volume can do full  justice to 1000 years of history, this one does a good job for such a  rookie as myself.	2000-06-05
US	50762809	R23QGFJO2KSEAY	0553297090	154082397	Timescape	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Fascinating, but unsatisfying	The subject of the review says it all.  It was not until I was completely finished with the book, and had reflected on it, that I reached the conclusion &quot;fascinating bu unsatisfying.&quot;  However, I am forced  to give the book a 4/5 simply because it did make me reflect on it,  something I rarely do with fiction.  The characters were diverse, and I  liked the fact they had personal lives outside the lab that were at least  approaching realistic, and the science was interesting.  Definitely a  science fiction as opposed to a science fantasy story.	2000-06-05
US	50762809	R334YWXX5WBA65	077373225X	35295652	The Corvette Navy: True Stories from Canada's Atlantic War	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A fascinating look into WWII convoy duty	I was thrilled to discover this book has been re-released, as it has been unavailable for years. Another reviewer has gone into great detail, and I do not want to repeat what he has written.  However, I will reinforce his  review with my own endorsement - this book is a fascinating look at the  every day lives of men in the naval service.  Little more than boys,  really, thrown in over their heads to either sink or swim.  However, the  stories contained in this book are often humourous, as &quot;boys will be  boys&quot; stories.  The humour is intermingled with some interesting  insight into the feel of the RCN in WWII - for example, their awe at being  in the presence of a British battleship.  Highly recommended for anyone  interested in this era.	2000-06-05
US	50762809	R3NL8AYPTAKB9G	0345388526	512051457	In the Balance: An Alternate History of the Second World War (Worldwar, Volume 1)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Works as historical fiction, but not as science fiction	My two favourite genres of books are WWII history and science fiction.  This series would seem an ideal match.<br />Historically, this series feels right.  The personalities of such notable &quot;walk-ons&quot; as Stalin,  Molotov, Hull, and Ribbentrop rang true to what I imagine they would be  like had they been confronted with such problems.  Also, the technology,  the personalities of the main (fictional) characters, etc. felt right.<br />On  the flip side, as science fiction, this series fails.  The alien race is  cliched.  The description of their lifecycle and home planet are seem  evolutionarily impossible (how can reptiles evolve on a desert planet?).   They are essentially intellegent salamanders (dinosaurs?).  However, this  is not a fatal flaw, and I recommend this series on entertainment value and  on historical interest.	2000-06-05
US	50762809	R7PFGST4KQWB8	0380014033	772010642	Lord of Light	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Highly entertaining	I do not know much about Hinduism, and perhaps someone with a degree in comparative religion could find fault with this book (or perhaps appreciate it more).  All I can say is that I found it highly entertaining and  absolutely fascinating.	2000-06-05
US	50762809	R1AE8W6KIVHATF	0812550757	241285325	Speaker for the Dead (The Ender Quintet)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The best of the Ender series (so far)	Of the 4 books in the original Ender Wiggen saga, this is by far (empatically!) the best of the lot. I don't know if this Speaker for the Dead idea is taken or adapted from some existing ritual, but it was new to me, and I have been quite taken with it. The new alien race is a fascinating creation, and feels alien, as opposed to those creatures you encounter in Star Trek. All in all, I have to rate this in my top 5 list of all time, and I highly recommend it (read Ender's Game first, though, as I think it would be difficult to follow otherwise).	2000-06-05
US	50762809	RJDEI836GFSA0	0553572393	710568866	Green Mars (Mars Trilogy)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	The best book in the series	After wading through Red Mars, I was a little hesitant to pick this book up.  But, the ending was interesting, so I gave it a shot, and I'm glad I did.  This book had it all, from the interaction between the characters,  the development of Mars, the colonisation efforts, and even the speculative  science fiction were fascinating.  I couldn't put the book down.  I enjoy  science fiction the most when the science is sound and when the characters  are interesting and easy for me to care about (or hate them, as the case  may be).  This book came through in both criteria. Highly recommended.	2000-06-05
US	50762809	RFWMLBZ1PG1CB	155750718X	663530006	The Rules of the Game: Jutland and British Naval Command	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Highly insightful, balanced	Normally the bias of an author presents itself when presenting a controversial subject.  At the time, Jutland was a very controversial battle, in that the RN let the German fleet &quot;get away&quot; and  couldn't bring them to decisive battle.  This book presents an in depth  analysis of the &quot;causes&quot; of the controversy without assigning  blame, i.e., the reasons for the fleet dispositions, the possible ambiguity  in signalling, the personalities of the high officers, etc.  It even gives  a blow-by-blow account of the battle, including some very useful  time-elapsed type charts, based on positions of wrecks.<br />Having said that,  as an amateur historian, I found the book to be overly detailed for my  purposes.  I still recommend it for anyone interested in RN tactics in WWI,  or in the Battle itself, but I think real naval historians will appreciate  the subtleties more than I can.	2000-06-05
US	50762809	R1BOFPERDPGX7W	0750637617	676426787	Purification of Laboratory Chemicals	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Great for the &quot;Synthetic&quot; Chemist	This is an indispensible resource for any synthetic chemist, either organic or inorganic (not sure about the biochemical section).  This book has concise, informative entries on the purification of a vast number of  common solvents and reagents.  I don't know how any chemist can survive  without having this on his/her bookshelf!	2000-06-05
US	50762809	RWLJ2L0F5GIH2	0553560735	710568866	Red Mars (Mars Trilogy)	Books	3	0	2	N	N	A little slow, but interesting	This book is obviously the first of a series, and if it is read as such, with the intent of reading the rest, it is worth the effort.  The science aspect of the science fiction was fascinating to me, but as mentioned by  some previous reviewers, the plot moved along slowly, and there were too  many characters I didn't care about.  It was worth the effort to get to  Green Mars, however, so I'll recommend it for that purpose.	2000-06-05
US	50762809	RY2O38KP60FQP	0553573357	487389793	Blue Mars (Mars Trilogy)	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Robinson falls in love with his descriptions, forgets plot	After reading Green Mars, I couldn't wait to see how the trilogy turned out.  Alas, I was disappointed.  Robinson seems to have fallen in love with his vision of the future, and describes it in great and glorious detail,  but doesn't seem to DO anything in this new environment he's created.  I  admit I like novels with action, and these endless descriptions bored me,  so perhaps others have a different opinion.  I could see the value in  describing Mars in such detail in the 1st book of the series, to set the  stage.  And scientifically it was interesting, as I don't know much about  Mars except what appears on The National and in Time Magazine.  But  scientific interest isn't satisfied with speculation about how Mars might  look (in minute detail) after several decades of terraforming.  A tedious  ending to what otherwise was an interesting and entertaining series.	2000-06-05
