US	50774246	R38GPA5POEZCKZ	157731400X	666881217	Stillness Speaks	Books	5	12	17	N	N	A Great Book with Intuitively Recognizable Truths	\\"Stillness Speaks\\" is a surprisingly good follow up to \\"The Power of Now\\". The message of being present and liberating oneself from the imprisonment of thought is largely the same, but the format of this book is more compact and accessible and also places Tolle's message in more specific contexts. <br /> <br />In \\"Stillness Speaks\\", Eckhart Tolle replaces the Q&A format found in \\"The Power of Now\\" with a direct and pithy narrative style modeled on Sutras. The first chapter essentially provides the book's entire message while subsequent ones place that message in more specific contexts such as how to bring stillness, awareness, and compassion to work or relationships. <br /> <br />This book, like its predecessor contains much truth. It is the kind of truth that you don't really have to think about because either you'll recognize it intuitively or you won't. While I found both \\"Stillness Speaks\\" and \\"The Power of Now\\" to be useful, powerful books, I was also a little put off by the author's subtle tone of righteous arrogance. A small but significant amount of the \\"energy\\" in each book is directed toward establishing Tolle's credentials as a guru. This, along with the intense sales and marketing found on his home page, seems wasteful, contradictory, and unnecessary.  <br /> <br />Despite, these misgivings, I highly recommend this book for its invaluable teachings. The message has always bee here regardless of who continues to bring it or how it arrives. I understand that Tolle's next book is about bringing consciousness to one's flatulent behavior and that its title will be \\"Stillness Squeaks\\".	2005-10-10
US	50774246	R3HWHUSAEK76C5	0688174418	123493690	A Charge to Keep	Books	5	46	71	N	N	Excellent in Every Respect	In this book, President George W. Bush describes his remarkable early life and subsequent rise to the most powerful position on earth.    The book begins with Bush's idyllic early childhood in Texas, and the remarkable story of how he personally discovered his father's first oil well in the Perm Basin by devising a simplified scent technique to smell surface fossil fuel particles in the dessert. In addition to providing the Bush family with it's first oil fortune, this discovery landed the youthful Bush a Nobel prize making him the youngest recipient ever of the world's most prestigious award.    Bush spent the next four years in high school at the prestigious Philips Andover Academy where he was top of his class, four-time varsity baseball and football champion and the youngest president of the local Temperance Union. In this capacity Bush spent evenings and weekends volunteering to lecture children about the perils of drinking. One night after counseling a distraught fourteen-year-old alcoholic, Bush volunteered to undergo the symptoms of alcoholism himself in order to better understand the pain and suffering around him.    Bush spent the next four years at Yale University where he again excelled in all varsity sports and all of his academics. Bush triple majored in public policy, environmental studies, and economics citing these as the great problem areas of our age. Classmates and professors alike already speculated that Bush would make an amazing president.    Immediately after graduating from Yale, Bush joined the navy and volunteered for active duty in Vietnam. After two years of training as a Navy Seal, Bush was deployed in the Hue and Natrang area where he built several schools and numerous roads while simultaneously crushing all Viet Kong resistance in that area. Many of Bush's missions from this time are classified, but he is credited with having rescued John McCain and several other POWs from prison and from having saved the life of future Georgia Senator and triple amputee, Max Cleeland. In 1969 Bush is believed to have undertaken a daring journey up the Mekong River to assassinate North Vietnamese president Ho Chi Minh. While Ho is believed to have died of natural causes, \\"A Charge to Keep\\" indicates that Bush personally slew him with a machete before calling in an air strike and then taking Ho's personal papers back to Ohio where his son could read them.    Following the war, Bush attended Harvard Business School where he formulated three new macro economic models and theories of fiscal disbursement, which earned him his second Nobel Prize. Upon graduating from Harvard, Bush turned down requests from both political parties to run for President and instead determined that his father deserved to run first since he was older. In the interests of fairness, however, Bush insisted that other candidates, such as Carter and Reagan should be given a chance first. It was these self-effacing and humbling actions on the part of the nations' most brilliant and accomplished warrior that earned Bush the moniker, \\"Young Cincinatus\\" after the Roman general who upon saving his country quietly retired to a life of farming.    Bush spent the next five years touring the United States on a motorcycle in order to really know the American people. During this time, Bush went to every poor household in America to hear the problems of the people, and offer his compassionate conservatism.     His travels were interrupted when he met and married a philanthropist, beauty queen, and successful businesswoman named Laura who bore him twin daughters.     After enrolling his daughters in MENSA, Bush asked the American people to vote for his father for President and was frequently told that \\"Yes, but only if you run later.\\"    In 1995 when Texas was nearly destroyed by invading lesbian anarchists, Bush quietly repelled the invaders and was immediately elected governor. As governor of Texas, Bush eliminated all pollution, and made Texas the safest,wealthiest, and most crime free state in the union.     In 2000, the American people finally got their wish and elected Bush in a landslide victory. Bush's first act as President was to call forth his terrorist expert Richard Clarke to brief him on a little known threat known as al Quaida. Bush's diligence in this area paid off on September 11th 2001 when he personally commanded anti-terrorist forces that prevented catastrophic terrorist attacks on New York City. Immediately afterwards, the twin towers of the World Trade Center were renamed \\"W Towers\\" by a grateful nation.    The most frustrating part of \\"A Charge to Keep\\" is that it ends too soon. It does not tell us of how Bush prevented evil dictator Saddam Hussein from launching multiple nuclear weapons against the United States, how he single handedly prevented terrorist attacks from taking place in Saudi Arabia, Madrid, and London, and how he brought the American economy to record surplus and employment levels at an all time high. I am also dying to read about the details of the Iraq military campaign which was personally lead by Bush himself who piloted several missions against Saddam's air force and who personally captured a Platoon of elite Fedayeen fighters.    My guess is that like all good books this one will have a sequel. Hopefully it will be called \\"A Charge to Continue.\\"	2005-07-22
US	50774246	RHC8SRN5Q46O8	0451525825	47170097	It Can't Happen Here	Books	5	34	41	N	N	Don't worry, this isn't happening here	\\"It Can't Happen Here\\" is Sinclair Lewis' precient tale of an oafish, charismatic leader taking over the United States and instituting a facist mode of government. Grim as the subject of this book may be, you can rest assured that democracy in this counrty is not being replaced by a religeo-facist mode of government. You can rest assured that we have fair elections in which the governors of Florida and New Mexico do not illegally disenfranchise Black and Hispanic voters. You can rest assured that the owner of a voting machine company in Ohio does not contribute money to the ruling party and vow to deliver his state's electoral votes to the ruling party's candidate. And you can rest assured that his company's voting machines are not closed systems with no method of verification.<br /><br />You can rest assured that the ruling party does not send paid operatives into a contested state during an election to intimidate vote counters. You can rest assured that a terrorist mastermind whose family has decades of business relationships with the ruling party leader's family will not somehow find a way to lead a cataclysmic attack on New York and you can definitely rest assured that the ruling party won't succeed in lying and covering up their own failure and complicity in this event.<br /><br />You can rest assured that the ruling party won't use terrorism as a pretext to erode our civil liberties and give itself absolute power. You can rest assured that the ruling party will not officially sanction torture in places like Guantanamo, Bagram Air Force Base in Afghanistan, Iraq, and in the numerous countries to which it sends its political prisoners for interrogation.<br /><br />Most importantly you can rest assured that the ruling party is sane and objective. You can rest assured that it listens to the world's scientists who overwhelmingly agree that we are on the brink of an irreversible environmental cataclysm. You can rest assured that it listens to its generals when they state that more troops are required to successfully govern an occupied country. You can rest assured that they listen to their economists and security experts when they request urgent attention to an issue of grave importance even if it does not conform to the ruling party's ideology.<br /><br />You can rest assured that we are not living in a nation where the President's top political adviser would expose a patriotic member of the intelligence community to get revenge against her husband, and we do not live in a country where this person would get away with such a crime through continuous lies and obfuscations.<br /><br />We do not live in a nation where the unelected, illegally installed fascist regime would destroy the middle class, and wage war on the poor in order to further bloat the already porcine class of billionaires with yet more tax cuts. We do not live in a religious theocracy in which the highest courts are run by fundamentalists who want to interpret every law according to their personal faith. And we do not live in a nation in which the mass media and government are owned by corporations that bombard us with lies and brainwashing on a minute-by-minute basis.<br /><br />So when you read \\"It Can't Happen Here\\", remember that this is just a fictional \\"what if\\" book written in the thirties and is in no way suggestive of our present reality.n they state that more troops are required to successfully govern an occupied country. You can rest assured that they listen to their economists and security experts when they request urgent attention to an issue of grave importance even if it does not conform to the ruling party's ideology. <br /> <br />You can rest assured that we are not living in a nation where the President's top political adviser would expose a patriotic member of the intelligence community to get revenge against her husband, and we do not live in a country where this person would get away with such a crime through continuous lies and obfuscations.  <br /> <br />We do not live in a nation where the unelected, illegally installed fascist regime would destroy the middle class, and wage war on the poor in order to further bloat the already porcine class of billionaires with yet more tax cuts. We do not live in a religious theocracy in which the highest courts are run by fundamentalists who want to interpret every law according to their personal faith. And we do not live in a nation in which the mass media and government are owned by corporations that bombard us with lies and brainwashing on a minute-by-minute basis. <br /> <br />So when you read \\"It Can't Happen Here\\", remember that this is just a fictional \\"what if\\" book written in the thirties and is in no way suggestive of our present reality. <br />	2005-07-21
US	50774246	R2HC226BV4ZEVL	0393046710	46961500	Hitler: 1889-1936 Hubris	Books	5	2	4	N	N	He thought he could gamble and win forever	Ian Kershaw's \\"Hitler 1880-1936 Hubris\\" is one of the best and most relevant biographies of Hitler to date. As the title suggests, this book examines the social context from which Hitler was able to rise to power. Much of this information is already quite well known. For example, Kershaw discusses, Germany's staggering military defeat in the First World War, and its refusal to hold the responsible military authorities accountable for it. This resulted in the rise of the Volkish movement and the blaming of the Jews for all of Germany's woes. <br /> <br />The importance of this book is not the superb recounting of these already well-documented historical facts, but Kershaw's exciting new argument about why Hitler chose to remilitarize the Rhineland. According to Kershaw, the French occupied portion of the Rhineland was already scheduled to be returned to Germany and that this was a well known fact to Hitler. But at this time, Germany suffered staggering economic setbacks, and even a charismatic leader such as Hitler began to see his popularity decline. What Hitler needed was a military and political victory to reinvigorate his popular appeal and he obtained this by appearing to take by force what was bound to be returned to him. <br /> <br />Hitler's immense gamble paid off, but it also put Germany on a course toward inevitable defeat. Hitler's popularity now depended on sustaining a constant context of emergency and of producing a series stunning victories. His hubris lay in the belief that he could mirror his success in the Rhineland forever.	2005-03-09
US	50774246	RDGG70BMT6DBG	0316105848	755102072	Flyboys: A True Story of Courage	Books	4	12	16	N	N	Context, not Moral Equivalency	In this informative and well-written book, author James Bradley discusses the hidden history of nine American naval aviators shot down over the Pacific during World War II. Eight of these men were captured, tortured and executed in so morbid a fashion that the government felt it best not to inform their families of the specific nature of their demise. The ninth aviator, Lieutenant J.G. George H. W. Bush was fortuitously rescued and eventually became the forty-first President of the United States. From an historical and a stylistic point of view, this book definitely has its flaws, but it is excellent in spite of them. <br /> <br />Bradley sets the gruesome fate of the eight captured flyboys in the broader historical context of imperial expansion in the Pacific. For more than a century the United States waged wars of extermination within North American and then in the Philippines in order to expand and secure its empire. The Japanese understood this and believed it was perfectly acceptable to do the same thing both in China and the South Pacific. Bradley does not discuss this aspect of American history in order to condemn the United States and to excuse Japan. He does so in order to help explain Japanese attitudes during World War II--attitudes that he by no means agrees with.  <br /> <br />Bradley also provides wonderful background on other important topics such as Japan's rapid modernization and the attitudes that accompanied it, the development of aerial and carrier based warfare, the daily life of the average Japanese soldier, and the full spectrum of strategic bombing. It is this last topic that is probably Bradley's most powerful contribution. To the objection of many reviewers, Bradley pulls no punches when discussing the nature of America's strategic bombing policies in Germany and especially in Japan. In addition to destroying military and industrial targets, the goal was to incinerate as many Japanese civilians as possible. In case you doubt it, just read the words of Air Force general Curtis Le May, President Franklin Roosevelt, and several pilots. <br /> <br />Yet this policy was not simply one of murder. American military planners had justifiably come to conclude that unless they murdered civilians en-masse through indiscriminate incendiary bombing, Japan would continue to fight on for years at the cost of considerable American and Japanese civilian lives. I don't like or agree with this policy but at least I understand that there was more to it than wanton killing. <br /> <br />The most powerful aspect of Flyboys is the human side of warfare that Bradley provides. Bradley does an excellent job of showing what kind of people the nine flyboys were, what it was like to be a Japanese soldier executing a Chinese civilian or American pilot, what it felt like to drop incendiary bombs on Japanese civilians, and what it was like to be the victim of American napalm. Readers may find themselves hating the Japanese at one point in the book for torturing and murdering civilians and POWs and then hating the Americans in another for deliberately baking, boiling, and burning all manner of Japanese civilians to death (General Curtis Le May's words, not mine.) They also may be surprised to find themselves sympathizing with Japanese soldiers who did not wish to perform executions and American pilots who found themselves deeply conflicted over bombing civilians. The point is that Bradley strips away many of the cliches of warfare and shows us how complex it actually is when you introduce the human dimension. For me, this departure from the usual self-congratulating accounts of American history in World War II actually made me appreciate America more.  <br /> <br />I usually don't like history books that assume a jocular tone as this one does, but somehow it didn't bother me with Flyboys. I learned a lot from this book and I enjoyed reading it.  <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-02-24
US	50774246	R2A9E2WOWB9RZ8	0743255453	937109510	The Price of Loyalty: George W. Bush, the White House, and the Education of Paul O'Neill	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Another Honest Conservative Gives the Scam Away	Conservative After Conservative Nails Bush<br />In this collaborative work, veteran Wall Street Journal reporter, Ron Suskind, and former Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neil provide us with an insider's view of the Bush regime. Prior to 2000, O'Neil was best known for his legendary tenure as CEO of Alcoa, which he transformed it from a moribund company to one of the nation's most profitable. Following the Coup of 2000, O'Neil received a call from his old friend and colleague, Dick Cheney to come serve the Bush Regime as its treasury secretary.<br />O'Neil accepted the offer and, upon assuming his responsibilities, he expected to utilize his fiscal acumen and problem solving abilities with like-minded colleagues. Instead, O'Neil found that far from honoring conservative fiscal values, the Bush regime had embarked on a radical program to provide a series of unsustainable tax cuts to the nation's wealthiest people. When asked, during a prolonged recession, whether it was wise to provide America's wealthiest people with yet another tax cut Cheney stated that it was his right to do this since the Republicans had recently won the mid-term elections.<br />O'Neil also sheds light on some of the personalities that he encountered in the White House. Most were radical ideologues whose focus was locked exclusively on its fiscal and military goals regardless of whether they served national interests or not. Among other things, O'Neil confirms that Bush and his entourage were obsessed with invading and occupying Iraq well before the attacks of September 11th, 2001.<br />Perhaps most disturbing is O'Neil's observation of George W. Bush's cognitive skills and personality. O'Neil found the Bush often appeared to be vacant and expressed practically no policy opinion at all. Add to this the fact, that Bush addressed his staff with odd nicknames (O'Neil was \\"Pablo\\" and Colin Powell was \\"balloon foot\\") and what emerges is the picture of an incompetent frat boy who has somehow been handed thekeys to the most powerful position on Earth.<br />What's shocking about this book is not so much what it reveals, but what it confirms. Anyone who has spent the last few years reading beyond the consolidated corporate media will not be surprised by O'neil's content so much as his context. Here is a conservative, a business leader, and a Bush insider essentially saying, \\"Yep, your worse fears about this regime are true. They're ideological, corrupt, and incompetent, and the last thing they're focused on is solving the nation's problems in a rational manner.\\" [...]	2004-03-24
US	50774246	R1RUYQIIS6RUZA	1859842585	978801677	Whiteout: The CIA, Drugs and the Press	Books	4	23	27	N	N	It�s the Liberal Media, Stupid!	First published in 1998, \\"Whiteout\\" is a meticulously documented account of the CIA's decades long role as an international drug peddler and of the surprising support it received in this capacity from America's purportedly liberal press. Authors Alexander Cockburn and Jeffrey St. Clair provide a detailed history of the CIA's drug business and its alliance with organized crime around the globe beginning with its precursor organizations in World War II (Naval Intelligence and the Office of Strategic Services) through the mid nineties. <br />While the authors span the CIA's fifty-year history of assassination, gruesome torture, and collaboration with evil figures such as drug lords and Nazi war criminals, the principle villain in this book is actually the American liberal press and not the agency itself. To be sure the agency has done some horrific things, but to anyone who has read their history, little of this is new or surprising and believers in \\"realpolitik\\" may even find them justifiable according to America's national interest. The latter point is often shallow and difficult to hold up under scrutiny but probably not worth examining here. Perhaps the only readers who'll find this book's portrayal of the CIA offensive are those whose view of the agency has been formed by James Bond movies and popular television shows such as \\"JAG\\", \\"Alias\\", and \\"The Agency\\". Sorry to burst your bubble folks, but don't worry, the tooth fairy isn't real either.<br />The centerpiece of whiteout is veteran San Jose journalist, Gary Webb who in 1996 broke the story that:<br />\\"For the better part of a decade, a San Francisco Bay Area drug ring sold tons of cocaine to the Crips and Bloods street gangs of Los Angeles and funneled millions in drug profits to a Latin American guerrilla army run by the US Central Intelligence Agency.\\"<br />Webb had stumbled on this story almost accidentally, but could verify it with irrefutable evidence including the sworn grand jury testimony of one of the drug dealers who was also on the DEA payroll, as well as DEA and FBI documentation. One of the most damning aspects of Webb's story was not so much that the CIA subverted congress by funding a secret war that the legislature had refused to, but that it knowingly-and with great indifference-launched a drug epidemic that ravaged America's inner cities with addiction, violence, and murder.<br />Despite such hard evidence, which the San Jose Mercury News made available on its Web site, Webb and his paper were hounded mercilessly by liberal publications such as The Washington Post, The New York Times, and the Los Angeles Times. At first Webb's editor supported and encouraged him, but soon he caved in to the mounting pressure from these other publications and subsequently retracted the story. After bravely enduring an unprecedented attack on his work and professional qualifications, and after finally losing the support of his own paper, Web subsequently resigned and went on to publish his findings in book form.<br />Why, one might ask, would the liberal press go after one of its own instead of picking up the story and perhaps supplementing it with additional research? Cockburn and St. Clair argue that for a variety of reasons the liberal press-its reputation aside-is and always has been extraordinarily cooperative with the CIA. Several senior editors at the Washington Post, for example, make no secret of the fact that for years they have acted as agency \\"assets\\" and continue to collaborate with it to this day. Add to this the attitude of individuals such as the Washington Post's Katherine Graham who believe that most Americans are infants whose perceptions need to be managed by self appointed media parents such as herself. (Graham once stated: \\"We live in a dirty and dangerous world. There are some things the general public does not need to know, and shouldn't. I believe democracy flourishes when the government can take legitimate steps to keep its secrets and when thepress can decide whether to print what it knows.\\") <br />Whether it collaborates directly with the government or simply takes it upon itself to manage our perceptions on its own, the press hardly serves a democratic or informative purpose in matters such as its treatment of Webb's story. And when you factor in the press's complacency regarding the three most important stories of the past few years (The attacks of September 11th, the colonization of Iraq, and the wave of corporate crimes) it becomes evident that the press is a prime contributor to the \\"dirty\\" and \\"dangerous\\" aspects of the world we live in.	2004-03-23
US	50774246	R17XYJPSPBXJMA	006050532X	137618010	Terror in the Name of God: Why Religious Militants Kill	Books	4	15	21	N	N	Fighting Terrorism with Brains Not Political Rhetoric	In this lucid, intelligent study, Professor Jessica Stern brings us face to face with members of some of most notorious terrorist organizations around the globe and introduces us to their point of view without making excuses for them or losing site of the fact that they are premeditated mass-murderers. This is not only a remarkable feat but also an extremely necessary one. Famous strategists have argued throughout history that the only way to defeat a powerful enemy is to understand how it thinks. This is especially true of global terrorism whose practitioners are often stateless, furtive, flexible, and remarkably regenerative. Few people are as qualified to examine this subject as Stern. Not only has she researched and taught terrorism at prestigious government organizations and universities in the United States, but also, she personally interviewed numerous terrorist cadres and leaders both in captivity and while they were at large. <br />This book warrants a couple of cautionary statements. First, readers should not confuse it with sociologist, Mark Jurgensmeyer's similarly titled study, \\"Terror in the Mind of God\\" which was published in 1998. In that book, Jurgensmeyer provides a sociological study of global terrorists that adduces common modes of thought to a variety of terrorist organizations around the globe. Second, this book will not appeal to anyone who clings to the comforting but woefully inadequate belief that terrorists are simply \\"evil doers\\" who are \\"jealous of our freedoms.\\" Terrorism certainly is an evil phenomenon, and many sections of this book depict the author's moral struggle to empathize with people who plan and carry out unspeakable acts. But as Stern points out, we can only effectively combat terrorism when we place ourselves in the minds of terrorists and attempt to understand their thinking.<br />TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS<BR>One of the most important contributions of this book is the fact that it provides a functional taxonomy of terroristorganizations. Stern demonstrates that terrorist movements range from individual practitioners and leaderless groups, to complex hierarchical organizations, and ultimately to massive, transnational \\"franchises\\" that incorporate all others. Individuals or \\"lone wolf avengers\\" as Stern calls them include examples such as the notorious Unibomber, while at the other end of the scale massive, transnational terrorist \\"franchises\\" include al Quaeda which recruits a variety of different people for different roles whether they are skilled specialists, or merely individuals that possess the required citizenship and language skills for a specific operation. <br />TERRORIST MOTIVATIONS<BR>Perhaps more important is Stern's examination of terrorist motivations. In many cases, terrorist organizations-however reprehensible their acts may be-do possess legitimate grievances most of which center around brutality and humiliation suffered at the hands of a more powerful force. But in numerous instances, Stern finds that terrorists often depart from their original grievances until they are committing acts of terror as both a business and a lifestyle. In Kashmir, for example, Stern found that terrorists who originally opposed the brutal treatment of Kashmiri citizens by Indian police and soldiers later benefited from their plight because it provided them with a source of funding and recruits. Ironically, these same terrorists eventually collaborated with corrupt Indian military officials and members of India's organized crime in order to further achieve their goals. Their original \\"mission\\" became obscured and the terrorists-as so often happens-began to operate more out of economic necessity and habit than in order to redress a grievance. <br />TERRORISM AS A PRODUCT<BR>As strange as it may seem, Stern notes that terrorist organizations must often market themselves and vie for funding in the same manner as NGOs and startup companies. In order to attract financial backers and popular support, terrorist organizations frequently try to sell their missions. Prior to the attacks of September 11th for example, al Quaeda rarely mentioned the plight of the Palestinians. But after the attacks, al Quaeda immediately mentioned the Palestinians in their broadcast speeches in order to attract the sympathy of moderate Moslems who might otherwise be alienated by the scale and brutality of September 11th.<br />TERRORISM AND GLOBALIZATION<BR>Despite their outspoken opposition to globalization, many terrorist organizations, like their counterparts in the business world, fully exploit it in order to develop trans-national capabilities. Al Quaeda for example has franchise groups all over the world and in the past it has acquired financially insolvent groups such as Egyptian Islamic Jihad. In South America's un-patrolled tri border area (where Brazil, Paraguay, and Argentina meet) terrorist groups from all over the world including white supremacists from the United States and Islamic fundamentalists from the Middle East regularly meet to exchange logistics and tradecraft. For this reason, intelligence agencies fear that in the future al Quaeda could \\"outsource\\" some of its missions to white supremacist terrorist organizations within the United States effectively making it the Haliburton of the terrorist world.<br />AMERICAN TERRORISTS<BR>Anyone who views terrorism as the bi-product of a \\"Clash of Civilizations\\" or \\"Us vs. Them\\" scenario should read Stern's first chapter very carefully. Here, Stern describes a radical, white, Christian terrorist organization in the United States that planned in 1986 to poison urban water supplies to bring about The Apocalypse. More disturbing is the fact that despite their radically different ideologies, foreign and American terrorist groups largely sympathize with each other. Terrorists whom Stern interviewed from both camps expressed sympathy with the goals and actions of their counterparts in America or the Middle East.<br />Stern'sbook leaves us with challenging questions and conclusions about terrorism. Since terrorists often depart from their original motives until they are acting out of mere greed and excitement, it is clearly impossible to defeat them with a strategy of appeasement. At the same time, we must recognize that as long as people feel humiliated, defeated, or excluded from progress and development terrorist organizations will have a never-ending supply of willing recruits. Stern provides us with an excellent starting point for effectively combating terrorism. But it is up to us to elect leaders who are competent and capable of performing this task instead of merely talking about it.	2004-03-16
US	50774246	R2XVQSKW2JUIWJ	0922915865	401786377	War is a Racket: The Antiwar Classic by America's Most Decorated Soldier	Books	5	244	266	N	N	War: Who Profits from it and who Pays for it	\\"War is a Racket\\" is marine general, Smedley Butler's classic treatise on why wars are conducted, who profits from them, and who pays the price. Few people are as qualified as General Butler to advance the argument encapsulated in his book's sensational title. When \\"War is a Racket\\" was first published in 1935, Butler was the most decorated American soldier of his time. He had lead several successful military operations in the Caribbean and in Central America, as well as in Europe during the First World War. Despite his success and his heroic status, however, Butler came away from these experiences with a deeply troubled view of both the purpose and the results of warfare.<br />Butler's central thesis is that regardless of the popular rhetoric that often accompanies warfare, it is waged almost exclusively for profit. He advances this argument in three decisive examples.<br />EXAMPLE 1: CORPORATE MILITARY PROFITS RESULTING FORM WAR<BR>In an early version of \\"follow the money\\", Butler provides pre- and post-World War I data on some of America's leading corporations to demonstrate the surge in profits that they experienced from the war, often totaling several hundred percent. While some companies, such as Dupont, arguably produced goods that contributed directly to America's military victory in 1918, others such as saddle manufacturers did not. Even when these companies failed to contribute directly to the war effort, they still managed to lobby the government to retrain or expand their contracts. Its as though powerful, well connected oil services company today were to contract with the government to supply oil to the military during a foreign campaign and then deliberately overcharge it.<br />EXAMPLE 2: INVESTING IN OTHER NATIONS' WARS<BR>Butler argues that the United States practically doomed itself to entering the First World War the moment it began lending money and material to the allies. Once the allies were faced with certain defeat, argues Butler, they approached American government and business officials and flatly told them that unless they were victorious they would not be able to repay their staggering debt. In the event that Germany and the axis powers won the war, they would have no motivation to assume and repay the allied debt to the United States. America entered the First World War, according to Butler, in order to guarantee the repayment of its massive military loans to the allies. No allied victory meant no repayment, which meant no profit. Thousands of American soldiers were killed or maimed, argues Butler, to protect corporate profits.<br />EXAMPLE 3: THE MILITARY AS A COROPORATE THUG<BR>Based on his own service experience in Central America and the Caribbean Butler argues that most American military interventions in small countries were done in order to \\"clear the way\\" for American corporations to set up shop and commence pillaging. It would be as if the United States were to occupy an oil-rich nation and then start doling out \\"rebuilding\\" contracts to some of its largest and best-connected corporations.<br />WHO PAYS FOR WAR<BR>Having focused on who profits from war, Butler then examines who pays the price. The answer, unsurprisingly enough is the average taxpayer and the young people who are either slaughtered in wartime or who return home physically and psychologically damaged. Sadly, Butler points out, once these young people are no longer useful they are ignored by their own government and are left to suffer without assistance. It's as though a president were to employ a lot of rhetoric about supporting our troops while using them to occupy and oil-rich nation, but were to secretly slash their hazardous duty pay and veterans benefits.<br />THE SOLUTION: END WAR PROFITEERING<BR>Butler's solution to preventing the carnage and social injustices of war is to eliminate business leaders' ability to make a profit from war or to avoid serving in it themselves. He also argues that those who put their lives atrisk should have a say in whether or not to wage war. This may sound like a lot of idealistic, socialist nonsense, but thing about it. Would the United States have invaded an oil-rich nation if its unelected president had been forced to serve in the front lines as part of the process? Would business interests have supported the war if they never stood to profit from it? Probably not. <br />\\"War is a Racket\\" also contains other interesting factoids including General Butler's successful prevention of a right-wing coup against President Franklin D. Roosevelt. Unfortunately, no one of General Butler's caliber was able to prevent a similar coup from taking place in 2000. <br />General Butler also makes a persuasive case for the United States to remain isolationist and to avoid involving itself in the coming European war (This book was published shortly before World War II.). Using his considerable grasp of military logistics, Butler counters many of the prevailing arguments of his day that Hitler posed a direct military threat to the United States. Unfortunately, no one of General Butler's caliber was available to counter a similar argument that right wing policy makers advanced about a tiny oil-rich nation in the Middle East posing a direct military threat to the United States.<br />To anyone who doubts the veracity or efficacy of this book, I have a humble but useful suggestion. Ask yourself who makes money off of war. Then ask yourself if they ever make the physical, mental, or fiscal sacrifices for war. Finally ask yourself who ultimately makes the sacrifices and pays the prices. Most people who favor war either profit from it, or are seduced by the idea of it. General Butler's book is a concise, and brilliantly argued treatise on the reality of war. Of course most people prefer a beautiful idea to harsh reality, and that is why propagandists and politicians are so successful.	2004-03-04
US	50774246	R3R9LP3MOMGV7G	0446532231	628954405	Dude, Where's My Country?	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Not as good as his others, but still relevant and funny	In this humorous and insightful book, Michael Moore mounts his trusty steed to once again do battle with the evil forces that are out to destroy the average American: corrupt corporate leaders, extreme right-wing propagandists, and the unelected regime of George W. Bush. In doing this, Moore makes many very important points about the instruments of power and duplicity in the United States. Why is it that the media won't directly question George W. Bush about his and his father's well-documented business relationships with the Saudi royal family and the Bin Laden family? Why did the United States declare war on Afghanistan and Iraq when it was actually attacked by Saudi Arabia? (The attacks of September 11th, 2001 were organized and executed almost entirely by Saudis and not by Iraqis or Afghanis.) Why does corporate criminal Kenneth Lay (former CEO of Enron) get to dictate our nation's energy policy for us in secret meetings with Dick Cheney?<br />Moore also points out that the terms \\"liberal\\" and \\"conservative\\" are very misleading in America. Polls consistently demonstrate that regardless of their political affiliation, most Americans hold very progressive views about privacy, health care, the environment, and foreign policy to name a few. Unfortunately, many Americans are consistently duped into voting against their own values by hate politics and by fear, both of which are generated by the army of right-wing propagandists and media outlets that unofficially support America's plutocratic leaders and the Bush Regime. <br />But Moore views this contradiction with surprising optimism and concludes that since the current right-wing political machine does not represent the values of most Americans, then it is up to us to take back our country. The place to begin, according to Moore is to develop a better understanding of how we have been mislead and manipulated to vote away our interests out of fear. Once we recognize that what he have at the moment is not actually ourcountry, then it is only a simple matter of reaching out and taking it back.<br />Another hillarious but sadly accurate section of this book is the chapter that deals with how one should talk to a conservative friend or family member about the important issues of our time. More points out that the first and most important thing to do is to assure the conservative individual that no one is out to take his or her money. While this chapter is funny and in many ways insiteful, unfortunately it fails to address the problem of discussing important issues with American conservative most of whom are enamored with themes but deeply opposed to facts. If one takes, the occupation of Iraq for example, most conservatives justify it on the basis of unelected President Bush's initial explanation that Iraq posed a threat to the United States because it possessed weapons of mass destruction and links to al Quaeda. But when the news, and even the unelected president eventually admitted that neither claim was true, the vast majority of American conservatives simply didn't care and instead justified the war on their sense that unelected President Bush is a \\"decisive\\" man who takes a \\"principaled stand\\" on vital issues. In other words, when American conservatives are faced with the fact that their unelected president lied and as a result, hundreds of Americans are getting killed and the country is going bankrupt, they simply switch to fluff mode: \\"He seems strong and principaled. We like him!\\" This doesn't mean that conservatives are stupid, but they do have a tendency to oversimplify things in much the same way that the majority of Germans in the 30s and 40s prefered to blame all of their problems on targeted ethnic groups instead of undertaking a meaningful analysis of what went wrong in their country. For this reason, Moore's suggestions on how to talk to conservatives are humorous but unfortunately uneffective.<br />Having been exposed to some of Moore's earlier works including \\"Downsize This\\", \\"Stupid White Men\\", and \\"Bowling for Columbine\\", I found this book to be a tiny bit disappointing. Maybe it's just my imagination, but \\"Dude Where's My Country\\" seemed a bit more formulaic then some of Moore's other works and also seemed less effective than books such as Al Franken's \\"Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them.\\" <br />I also wish that Moore had made a much stronger argument about the Bush Regime's complicity with Saudi Arabia, the country that declared war on the United States on September 11th, 2001 but was given a permission slip to avoid accountability and retribution by both the Bush Regime and the corporate media. Sure, there are a lot of information gaps here thanks to government and media censorship, but Moore could still have made a stronger, clearer case based on the information that is available. <br />These issues aside, this still remains an excellent and important book. Of course right-wing extremists will automatically dismiss Moore's arguments and the facts that he has marshaled here, but I suspect that the majority of Americans will find this book disturbing, compelling, and surprisingly hopeful. After all, this IS our country, not the exclusive feeding ground of the Bush family and of Kenneth Lay. And to anyone who says, \\"Yes but Clinton was guilty too,\\" so what. Clinton is not the president right now, and when he was the president, he did not do so much, to destroy the lives of so many, to profit so very few.	2004-02-10
US	50774246	R3GB24S45JE6EO	1586482181	485666128	Winning Modern Wars: Iraq, Terrorism, and the American Empire	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Clark Sounds Pretty Smart, but Bush is a Really Nice Guy	\\"Winning Modern Wars\\" is retired general and former Supreme Commander of NATO, Wesley Clark's examination of what constitutes modern wars and how to win them. Clark is also, of course, a former Democratic candidate for the presidency, but even if one assumes the worse about Clark's intentions in writing this book, his arguments are as powerfully relevant as they are intelligent and are worth examining in a neutral fashion.<br />Clark sets the stage for constructing his subsequent arguments by providing a detailed-and clearly loving-account of the American military's performance in Operation Iraqi Fiefdom. Those readers who are interested in military history and military science will find these pages extremely rewarding. In stark contrast to the abysmal, theme-driven war coverage provided by in-bed reporters, Clark provides an extremely lucid account of the successful Coalition military tactics and the reasoning behind them. Drawing on exponential technical advances and lessons learned since the First Gulf War, the American military was able to subdue Iraqi forces with far fewer troops and in considerably less time. Clark attributes this in large part to the \\"revolution in military affairs\\" that is essentially the product of several presidential administrations as well as an extremely flexible officer core that was able to rapidly adjust its tactics in the face of surprising new challenges on the battle field.<br />Having used the opening chapters to establish his own military credentials as well as his unquestionable support of American troops, Clark then prepares his epistolary attack against the Bush Regime by explaining how the War on Iraq was a needless diversion from America's arguably more important and certainly unfinished war on terrorism. In this section, Clark argues that Iraq has no significant connection to al Quaeda or to terrorist threats at home. Worse, yet, Clark argues, the war in Iraq, if anything is making the United States less stable and is providing a breeding ground for terrorism. <br />While readers might understandably treat these arguments with skepticism and wonder if they are part of Clark's presidential ambitions, they should consider the testimony of other experts. Under different circumstances both the CIA, and President Bush have publicly stated that Iraq had no significant relationship to al Quaeda and was not behind the terrorist attacks of September 11th, 2001. (Bush subsequently reversed himself for political reasons by labeling Iraq the \\"central front of the war on terrorism\\" but he failed to explain this term in detail.) Furthermore, Visiting Professor Jeffery Record of the Army's prestigious War College wrote a report that criticized the war on Iraq as a flawed distraction from the more essential war on terror. Among other things, Record pointed out that rogue nations like Iraq-however dangerous they may be-can be subjected to deterrence because they are exposed to political and military retaliation, whereas because terrorist groups like al Quaeda are stateless, they are generally immune to military power. Finally, shortly after the bombing of the UN headquarters in Baghdad, leading terrorist expert, Jessica Stern stated that the war in Iraq had the dubious distinction of creating terrorists where none existed before. These experts and numerous others strongly reinforce Clark's argument that when seen in the context of the war on terror, the invasion of Iraq was a strategic blunder of potentially catastrophic proportions.<br />Clark's next argument-really the heart of this book-is that modern wars require more than the obvious military success on the ground. In order to succeed, Clark argues, modern wars require detailed plans and funding for peace keeping operations long after the initial military phase ends. They also require international cooperation among powerful nations with shared security interests for two vital reasons: (1) to balance the staggering costs as the coalition did inthe First Gulf War, and (2) to provide legitimacy. When a nation decides to \\"go it alone\\" as the Bush Regime opted to in the Iraq war, it risks bearing unsustainable costs and of becoming an international pariah. When even a nation as powerful as the United States becomes universally hated for its perceived imperial ambitions and arrogance, it becomes more vulnerable to terrorist attacks.<br />Clark concludes this book by arguing that there is a right way and a wrong way for the United States to operate as the dominant world power. Drawing on the works of thinkers like Joseph Nye Jr., Clark argues that prior to the disastrous foreign policy decisions of the Bush Regime, the United States operated very effectively as a \\"virtual empire\\". This means that the United States drew upon all of its reservoirs of strength including its economic leverage, its leadership role in universally respected institutions such as the United Nations, and the NATO military alliance, and its transparent but considerable \\"soft power\\" which includes the influences of its values, its institutions and its shared goals for universal public good in such areas as environmental preservation, the eradication of poverty, and global prosperity. In this context, Clark argues, military force is used exactly how every trained American officer knows it should be: as a last resort and with the full backing of as many allies as possible. By opting for an arguably flashy but more obsolete mode of traditional military imperial policy, Clark argues, the Bush Regime has essentially stripped the United States of many of the core components of its \\"virtual empire\\". In the process of doing this, it has considerably weakened the United States and rendered in less effective in prosecuting the war on terrorism or in meeting other global challenges. <br />Even if you are an ardent supporter of George W. Bush, you should read this book and seriously think about this guy's arguments. He's a decorated combat veteran with leadership experience and a clear understanding of the complex political and military web that constitutes modern war. <br />Of course it's easier to believe that Bush knows what he's doing when clearly he doesn't, but readers should overcome this primitive weakness and use their analytical capabilities even if it leads them to stark conclusions.<br />Perhaps it is for this reason that Clark concludes that the United States can meet its global challenges in the coming years-if it has the right leadership.	2004-01-17
US	50774246	RMZO4ZE8SGAUM	0471265179	432255037	All the Shah's Men: An American Coup and the Roots of Middle East Terror	Books	5	6	7	N	N	As Thrilling to Read as it is Illuminating	\\"All the Shah's Men\\" is a wonderfully constructed account of America's fateful decision to back Britain and it's principle Iranian oil interests by overthrowing Iran's popular, democratically elected Prime Minister, Mohammad Mossadegh, in 1953. Based on his extensive research into a variety of Iranian and American sources including now declassified CIA documents, veteran New York Times journalist, Stephen Kinzer, has produced a historical analysis that reads like a spy thriller. In addition to focusing on the fascinating details of the American-sponsored coup itself, Kinzer provides a vivid and objective portrait of the principle players including the coup's colorful mastermind, CIA operative, Kermit Roosevelt, Iran's enormously popular and passionately nationalistic Prime Minister, Mohammad Mossadegh, and a host of other individuals ranging from world leaders to the shadowy organizers of street mobs in Iran. <br />Much to his credit, Kinzer examines an understandably controversial subject without employing a predictably judgmental perspective. For example, while Kinzer displays tremendous sympathy toward Mossadegh, he avoids characterizing him as completely virtuous, and competent leader who was overthrown by a rapacious world power. In many ways Mossadegh was a virtuous leader, and his decision to nationalize the deeply oppressive and intractable Anglo/Iranian Oil Company not only earned him tremendous popularity in Iran, but also generated tremendous sympathy in the anti-colonial Truman Administration (which invited him to the United States) and even within the conservative Eisenhower Administration, albeit to a lesser extent. But as just as Mossadegh's grievances against Britain may have been, Kinzer demonstrates that he lacked the shrewdness and the practicality to negotiate with Britain when he had the upper hand. While it was probably impossible for Mossadegh to fully understand the increasingly binary nature of America's global rivalry with the Soviet Union,and how the American government would come to view him in this context, one can't help but wonder how a more skilled and ruthlessly practical politician such as Ghandi or Ho Chi Minh would have handled the situation. Kinzer concludes that while Mossadegh was undoubtedly the victim of an American-sponsored coup, his own understandable, but deeply impractical political passions were partly to blame.<br />Equally fascinating is the lens that Kinzer turns on the American leadership and on its gradual shift from sympathizing with Mossadegh to ultimately backing the British in their quest to regain control of their Iranian oil concessions. In part this resulted from changing political fortunes on both sides of the Atlantic. In roughly the same time frame Attlee's Labor Government in Britain, and the Democratic Truman Administration in America-both of which were largely sympathetic to Mossadegh-were replaced by the more deeply reactionary administrations of Churchill and Eisenhower. Churchill saw himself as the last bastion of the remaining British Empire, and Eisenhower had campaigned on a strong anti-Communist platform. In this context neither leader was willing to tolerate a nationalistic leader of Mossadegh's calibur in Iran. Despite its role in overthrowing the elected leader of a sovereign nation, the American government emerges from these pages in a surprisingly sympathetic manner by at first attempting to work with Mossadegh and then reluctantly helping the British to overthrow him. It is perhaps the British with their hidebound arrogance and total dismissal of Iranian interests who come across as the book's only villains.<br />Finally there is the planning and execution of the coup itself, by CIA operative, Kermit Roosevelt. This part of the story contains so many fascinating and unbelievable twists that it even prompted President Eisenhower to compare it to a dime store novel after Roosevelt provided him with a subsequent intelligence briefing on the subject. One could argue that the Iranian coup formed the blueprint for so many subsequent right-wing coups in places like Nicaragua (1955), Vietnam (1963), Brazil (1964), Chile, (1973), Florida (2000), Venezuela (2002--which actually failed) and Haiti (2004). In most cases, the process of overthrowing a democratically elected government involved a strong man to replace the deposed leader, organizing and dispatching violent mobs to create chaos and to provide the veneer of popular rage toward the existing government, control and skillful application of the mass-media, at least minimal military and police cooperation, and some sort of legal or judicial process to vilify the outgoing leadership and legitimize the new one. Roosevelt skillfully assembled and deployed these elements in deposing Mossadegh and replacing his government with that of the deeply repressive Mohammad Reza Shah.<br />Kinzer concludes his book with some practical questions and hypothetical examinations of other possible outcomes. Could Mossadegh have avoided the coup if he had been more flexible? Would America's long-term foreign policy aims have been better served by backing Mossadegh and by standing for democracy in practice as well as in rhetoric? Was the coup really necessary to counter the perceived Soviet threat? How might subsequent American foreign policy have differed if the coup actually failed, which it very nearly did?<br />In examining these issues, Kinzer come to two sobering conclusions. First, he observes that having easily overturned an undesirable government in one country, American foreign policy makers, most notably the Dulles brothers, believed that \\"regime change\\", as we now call it, was a simple and practical approach to implementing America's global security requirements in potentially troubled regions. Kinzer also concludes that seemingly inexplicable events such as the humiliating American Hostage Crisis in 1979 and many subsequent terrorist attacks have origins in the coup that overthrew Mossadegh. Kinzer does not frame his conclusions in a manner that blames America or justifies terrorism. Instead, he provides a rational explanation of cause and effect and suggests that the blowback from the Iranian experience should be considered when making similar policy decisions.	2004-01-03
US	50774246	R100L4O4BF1NMR	1586481231	381855571	High and Mighty: SUVs--The World's Most Dangerous Vehicles and How They Got That Way	Books	5	8	13	N	N	But It Makes Me Feel Powerful	In this book, veteran New York Times journalist, Keith Bradsher provides one of the most comprehensive and brutally honest reports on the massive station wagons improperly named sport utility vehicles (SUVs). Bradsher spent years researching his subject when he served as the New York Times' Detroit Bureau chief. In this capacity, Badsher was as plugged in to the upper echelons of the American auto industry as anyone could be. When Bradsher began research on SUVs he found that many auto industry employees-especially engineers-we're completely willing to disclose their honest opinions about the design flaws and safety hazards of these oversized station wagons. Even auto executives who did not like Bradsher and his research topic were compelled to talk to him since he covered important events in their trade.<br />It is important to remember, as another reviewer pointed out that practically none of the findings in this book are Bradsher's own; instead there are a recapitulation things the auto makers said themselves. For example, in the chapter entitled \\"Reptilian Dreams\\" Bradsher quotes the findings of auto industry market researchers who determined that typical SUV drivers \\"tend to be people who are insecure and vain. They are frequently nervous about their marriages and uncomfortable about parenthood. They often lack confidence in their driving skills. Above all, they are apt to be self-centered and self-absorbed, with little interest in their neighbors or communities.\\" The sad implication of this statement is that according to the automakers (not Bradsher-this is the auto makers talking), if you buy an SUV then there's a good chance that you possess an obnoxious personality and are fundamentally timid and insecure beneath the surface. <br />Much of the market research performed by the automakers, according to Bradsher, focused on the most basic archetypal images with which human beings associate various emotions. As a result of their findings, the automakers patterned SUVs after the archetypal image of a monster with a large rounded body, eyes (large headlights), and teeth (the grill). One of the most primitive human emotions, according to the automakers' researchers is the urge to be ensconced within the safety of a monster-one that makes us feel much more powerful than we actually are.<br />Bradsher also sites the automakers' own statistics in his discussion of the horrible safety record of SUVs. Not only are these enormous station wagons dangerous to occupants of other vehicles, but to their own as well. Because of their high center of gravity and poor brakes (SUVs use the drum brakes of light trucks, not the disk brakes of cars), SUVs are much more likely to roll over than smaller vehicles of mini vans. Ironically, while the size of an SUV might make drivers feel safe it actually puts them in much greater danger of death, whiplash, and spinal injuries. Those quaint little guardrails that we see on America's highways were designed to bounce cars back on the road when they veer off course. Since they were not designed for SUVs, they unfortunately have the adverse effect of tipping these portly station wagons over upon impact.<br />One of the saddest of Bradsher's conclusions is that SUVs are inadvertently fueling an arms race on the road. As the drivers of non-excessive vehicles experience being blinded by SUV headlights, or crushed by SUV collisions, they are becoming increasingly compelled to purchase SUVs themselves as a matter of survival. As a result, Bradsher argues SUVs increasingly dominate the roadways and it is only a matter of time before they compel drivers who are not insecure and self-hating to purchase their own obese station wagons in order to increase the odds of survival during a collision. <br />SUVs, as Bradsher notes, are filled with irony. Many people use or fantasize of using SUVs as off road vehicles when in fact these corpulent station wagons are responsible for much environmental destruction. (All of the oil to be extracted from the proposed Alaska National Wildlife Refuge will cover the extra fuel consumed by SUVs.) Furthermore, many drivers of these plump family wagons view them as emblems of freedom when in fact they owe their continued existence to protectionism. The American government heavily subsidizes these vehicles at home and blocks any significant import of safer, more fuel efficient SUVs from abroad. These are, as Bradsher's research implies more a product of corporate welfare than of free trade or choice. <br />And perhaps the most perverse aspect of SUVs is the manner in which many drivers view them as patriotic vehicles, even going so far as to sport American flags while lumbering along the road way. But as Bill Maher, Arianna Huffington, and others point out, these pork shaped wagons vastly increase America's dependence on foreign oil which has at least two disastrous consequences: (1) more oil wars, and (2) indirectly funding terrorism. As Bill Maher points out in \\"When You Ride Alone You Ride with Bin Laden\\", much of the extra fuel consumed by SUVs greatly enriches members of the Saudi Government and royal family, some of whom are known to have financed anti-American terrorists or the alleged charities from which they draw their funding.<br />Days after I read this book a colleague of mine narrowly escaped death when his car was sideswiped by an SUV. He told me that the roads were too dangerous to drive a non-excessive vehicle and that in order to survive he too planned to buy a bovine station wagon.	2003-12-30
US	50774246	R1W99YGQ16ODJ8	0375504907	635066654	Reading Lolita in Tehran: A Memoir in Books	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A Stunning Example of the Power of Words Over Force	\\"Reading Lolita in Tehran\\" is Azar Nafisi's account of several fascinating events that ultimately center on books and the context in which they are read. Ms. Nafisi is a professor of English literature who lived in the United States for many years and obtained her Ph.D. here before returning to her native Iran to teach in the prestigious Tehran University. In this book she recounts her radical student days in America (protesting the Shah's regime), the political upheaval that swept Iran during and after the Islamic Revolution of 1979, her life of intellectual exile within her own country during the Iran/Iraq War, and her simple but highly subversive decision to teach a private women's seminar on forbidden English literature. While this book is very well written and interesting on many levels, more than anything else it provides a fascinating study on the value of literature in a given social and political context.<br />Following her resignation from her teaching position in Tehran University because of government pressure and intrusion into her life, Ms. Nafisi decided to teach a private English literature seminar to a select group of her former female students. The students came from diverse social, religious and political backgrounds. Some were deeply religious while others lead lives that might be considered \\"interesting\\" even by liberal Western standards. Some had been imprisoned by the Iran's ruling regime while others had escaped the tumult of the Islamic Revolution relatively unscathed. One important thing these women had in common was that they were extremely intelligent and well educated. Many had read the works of Barthes and other Western intellectuals for pleasure and probably could easily hold their own in an English or American graduate program. Another was the fact that each of them had known life in Iran before the Islamic Revolution and each had strong personal feelings about living under an oppressive theocratic regime.<br />What I found most interesting about this book was the new life that \\"old\\" texts by Nabokov, Fitzgerald, and others took on within the deeply oppressive context of Revolutionary Iran. When the group read The Great Gatsby, for example, one of the principle themes they explored was how the book's wealthy characters-like most people in power--always broke things and then expected someone else to fix them. If this book was decadent and pro-western as the Iran's ruling clerics claimed, then how did one explain the critical manner in which it portrayed its most privileged characters? Did its author provide an objective analysis of his own civilization? Was this process threatening to Iran's ruling regime?<br />Similarly, When reading Lolita the group concluded that the novel's villainous character Humbert Humbert fooled himself and attempted to fool his readers by blaming his victim, Lolita (as he called her) for her own rape. The group then drew a parallel between his behavior and that and Iran's revolutionary government, which often blamed the victims for the oppression it meted out to them. Humbert Humbert, in this case, was neither the innocent lover that he makes himself out to be, nor the villain that most discerning readers take him for. Instead, his exploitive and propagandistic behavior made him emblematic of tyranny in general. <br />Equally as fascinating is the dynamic of Ms. Nafisi's class itself. The students did not always agree with each other and seldom came to neat and tidy conclusions about either the books or the context within which they read them. The students sometimes carried out subtle personal arguments with each other through their conflicting interpretations of the books. And while none of them enjoyed living under Iran's theocratic government they still possessed different points of view about how that experience had come to be and what it meant. Reading Ms. Nafisi's recounting of her seminars is as pleasurable as quietly sitting in a room and listening to a conversation between very intelligent people.<br />One comes away from this book not only with a new understanding of familiar texts but also with a deep appreciation for the fact that, at least for now, we do not live in a militant theocracy in which librarians and book sellers are forced to secretly inform the ruling regime what their citizens are reading. If for some reason this situation changes, then literature, as Ms. Nafisi demonstrates is an extremely powerful tool of survival and of resistance.	2003-12-24
US	50774246	R2BE9RMXLGJNHR	0195150880	40612399	The Paradox of American Power: Why the World's Only Superpower Can't Go It Alone	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Brilliant Indictment of Arrogant Unilateralist Thinking	The paradox of American Power, argues Joseph Nye Jr., is that it is too powerful to be defeated militarily yet not powerful enough to meet all of its global challenges by itself. Nye expands this argument in a series of well-researched essays that are as deeply practical as they are intelligent. Few people are probably as uniquely qualified to examine the nature and problems of American power as he is. Nye is the Dean of the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University and was Assistant Secretary of Defense for the Clinton Administration. This man is no ideologue and he knows what he's talking about.<br />Nye's argument is largely a refutation of the simplemindedness demonstrated by a clique of policy makers whom he refers to as the new unilateralists or hegemonists but who are more popularly known today as neoconservatives. Because these people are infatuated with military aggression, argues Nye, they fail to understand that power is a complex phenomenon best understood in terms of its \\"hard\\" and \\"soft\\" components. Hard power consists of military and economic leverage while soft power contains less obvious but no less significant components such as cultural appeal, universally respected values, opportunities, and policies that are tied to global interest as much as national gain. Nye correctly argues that the great empires of the past including the United States ruled through a skillful application of both hard and soft power. To jettison our soft power because our leaders are so enamored of hard power, argues Nye, is a colossal blunder.<br />Nye also argues that power is distributed on different levels some of which require cooperation with other nations and some of which don't. He elaborates by describing American power in terms of a three level chessboard. On the top level of the chessboard, which constitutes military power, the United States is preeminent and can act unilaterally. The middle level, which constitutes economic power, however is multi-polar.In this area the United States must act in concert with a select group of other players such as Japan, China, France, Germany, India, and others. The bottom level of the chessboard constitutes trans-national issues that occur with no regard to national boundaries. In these areas, which include international finance and the actions of stateless organizations, including terrorists, the United States can only act in an inclusive global fashion. In a recent article in Foreign Affairs Magazine, Nye criticized the Bush Regime for its nearly exclusive focus on the first level of the chessboard and described its policy makers as one-dimensional thinkers in a three dimensional chess game.<br />Nye reinforces his argument by explaining the impact that contextual developments such as the information revolution and globalization have on American power. The information revolution, argues Nye, circumvents borders and challenges state sovereignty and control. America is both a product and a beneficiary of globalization, according to Nye, but must use its soft power to shape the evolution of globalization in a manner that endows it with universal appeal. Failure to do so could have disastrous consequences.<br />In his chapter entitled \\"The Home Front\\" Nye begins with the ominous observation that instead of being defeated by the barbarians, Rome rotted from within. \\"People lost confidence their culture and institutions, elites battled for control, corruption increased, and the economy failed to grow adequately.\\" Terrorists cannot defeat the United States, argues Nye, unless it rots from within. More importantly, Nye points out that disastrous fiscal policies that drive up deficit spending that destroy time honored American social services can dramatically erode American hard and soft power. Deficit spending inevitably generates a recession and a severe recession will likely result in the flight of foreign investment capital thereby weakening America's hard power. But also as deficit spending destroys social services and opportunities, it also chips away at America's global appeal-a blow to our soft power.<br />In his concluding chapter, entitled \\"Redefining the National Interest\\" Nye calls upon the United States to pursue multilateral policies that foster badly needed international cooperation. Although Nye acknowledges that the multilateral approach provides America with less freedom to act at will than the unilateral approach, he also points out that it is better suited to dealing with the transnational issues that constitute some of our greatest challenges in the Twenty-first Century. Nye concludes that the United States should develop a combined policy that: (1) protects our traditional vital interests, (2) addresses the global public good, and (3) promotes human rights and democracy abroad.<br />Although this book was published in late 2002, it practically reads like a post mortem of the Bush Regime's disastrous foreign policies with respect to the Middle East, North Korea, Europe, and Iraq, which have arguably reduced both our hard and soft power. My hope is that more people will become familiar with Nye's arguments and will subsequently judge their leaders not by the entertainment value of their speech acts, but by whether or not their policies properly address the national interest.	2003-11-19
US	50774246	R2DKFK8CGPY0N8	1585422762	756890865	Weapons of Mass Deception: The Uses of Propaganda in Bush's War on Iraq	Books	5	72	75	N	N	How the War was Spun	In this extremely well researched book, authors Sheldon Rempton and John Stauber argue that the Bush Regime generated public support for the invasion of Iraq by using a calculated public relations campaign and a series of flagrant lies. The authors base their argument on easily verifiable documents from the media, the PR industry, and a variety of respected government and research organizations. Whether or not you agree with the invasion or Iraq it is important that you understand that the Bush Regime felt the only way it could get support for this policy was to lie. There is simply no question, as this book proves, that the Bush Regime deliberately set out to lie to the American people and to the world about why it wanted to invade and occupy Iraq.<br />BRANDING AMERICA<BR>The first chapter of this book explains how the Bush Regime set out to change public opinion about the America in the Middle East by running a brand campaign. The regime hired a PR specialist essentially to brand America and to promote that brand in the Middle East the same way one might promote Budweiser or KFC. The problem with Brand promotion strategies, however is that they are more about manipulation and forceful persuasion than about understanding and working with your target audience. Is it any wonder that this policy failed so spectacularly?<br />WAR IS SELL<BR>The book's second chapter describes the numerous mechanisms of persuasion the Bush Regime employed to convince you and me that the war on Iraq was necessary. These included timing the drive to war like a product launch, publicizing the invasion-friendly views of right-wing think tanks that were recast as foreign policy experts, promoting the CIA funded Iraqi National Congress as liberators. Funny how none of these strategies had anything to do with telling the truth.<br />TRUE LIES<BR>As it's title implies, the book's third chapter provides the nuts and bolts of Rempton's and Stauber's argument. Here the authors demonstrate how theBush Regime falsely claimed that Saddam Hussein had direct ties to al Quaeda (he and bin Laden are sworn enemies), lied about Iraq's weapons capability, and created the false impression that Iraq is a major sponsor of global terrorism. Oddly enough our principal Middle Eastern ally, Saudi Arabia provides much more sponsorship for global terrorism than Iraq. Fifteen of the nineteen September 11th hijackers were Saudi and none were Iraqi. Let me repeat that for you: none were Iraqi.<br />THE USES OF FEAR<BR>Perhaps the most important part of this book is it's fifth chapter entitled \\"The Uses of Fear.\\" Here, the authors argue that the mass media, PR industry and advertising-all of which were used by the Bush Regime to promote the war in Iraq-and terrorism all share a common mindset best described as \\"the propaganda model.\\" This model, according the authors aims to indoctrinate the audience with a pre-defined set of beliefs rather than to engage in the kind of critical thinking and communication that characterize a democracy. Put another way, the process that the Bush Regime used to persuade you and me that invading Iraq was a really cool thing was anti-democratic in nature. Where democracy is based on the premise that the people are capable of rational self-governance, argue Rempton and Stauber, propagandists regard rationality as an obstacle to efficient indoctrination. In other words, the Bush Regime could not permit a reasonable national discussion to take place about the invasion of Iraq. Instead it needed to indoctrinate us with the same false themes again and again and again, until by virtue of consistent reinforcement they became a truth in themselves. The most distressing part of this process, as the authors point out, is not only how the Bush Regime used fear to promote false concepts to the American people but also how they did so to justify withholding information from us.<br />THE AIR WARS<BR>The authors also demonstrate that the Bush Regime-largley through corporate cronies-used the air waves both to promote the war and to censor or punish any pubic opposition to it. Pro war rallies were launched by Clear Channel a radio monopoly owned by a long time Bush business partners and campaign contributor.<br />After reading this book, I hope that people-regardless of their political beliefs-will ask themselves some hard questions about what they know about their government and more importantly, how they know it. Now, more than ever, it is essential for us to distance ourselves from our personal feelings, and especially our sense of fear, in order to take a good hard look at the facts. We may not have the authors' resources or expertise, but we can read this book and others like it and we can verify its source material most of which is publicly accessible. It may not be a fun or easy process, but when we do this, we begin to take control of our lives and to see things as they are instead of how powerful interests want us to see them. This book and others like it do much more than exposing the mendacity of the Bush Regime's drive for war. It shows us how we can begin to think for ourselves and in the process it frees us from indoctrination.	2003-11-18
US	50774246	R1LFO6P3HQAIV7	0393058506	904288157	The Great Unraveling: Losing Our Way in the New Century	Books	5	26	35	N	N	America Under Fiscal Occupation	In this intelligent and extremely accessible book, prize-winning economist and New York Times business columnist, Paul Krugman accomplishes two important things. First, Krugman provides what is probably the most important and accurate assessment of the Bush Regime in public discourse to date. Second, Krugman uses a combination of basic arithmetic and reading comprehension with a modest amount of economic theory to examine how the economic policies of the Bush Regime impact the majority of Americans. Although Krugman is hardly an ideologue, his findings produce dismal and frankly frightening conclusions about the Bush Regime. Krugman argues that Bush and his crony capitalist power base are out for themselves no matter how destructive an impact their policies have on American lives and on the very foundation of the nation itself. <br />Drawing on the early writings of Henry Kissinger, Krugman characterizes the Bush Regime as a revolutionary power whose leaders refuse to accept the legitimacy of the current American political system and who are taking radical steps to change it. Seen in this context, the inexplicable fiscal and economic disasters of the Bush Regime begin to make sense. The Bush Regime does not really believe that it can provide social services to the majority of Americans along with a massive tax giveaway to the rich, but it publicly makes this claim knowing that the press and the majority of Americans will never examine whether or not it is possible. According to Krugman, we have inherited a political climate in which leadership is judged exclusively by the appeal of its appearance and speech acts, and never by the ramifications of its policies. As a result, Krugman argues, the Bush Regime can make endless promises to the electorate without fearing the results of failing to deliver. <br />Krugman argues that when radical extremists such as the Bush Regime come to power, they generally encounter little resistance even when they implement dreadful and unpopular policies such as the gradual dismantling of social security and medicare. This takes place, according to Krugman because people either take the radical extremists' policies at face value instead of examining their actual impact, or worse yet, once they realize how disastrous these policies are, they sit back and hope that the radical extremists will eventually moderate their behavior. But this will never happen, as Krugman correctly points out, because radical extremists remain bound to their ideological convictions no matter what the result. <br />Krugman warns readers that the findings in his book are quite depressing. The majority of Americans are funding the Bush Regime's tax giveaway to the super rich and they will continue to do so for the foreseeable future. Under the Bush Regime's current fiscal policies, the elimination of social security, medicare, and other social services that most of us have paid for with payroll taxes is inevitable. The massive deficits generated by the Bush Regime's runaway spending will eventually result in large interest rate hikes whose consequences will include astronomical mortgage and credit card bills, and of course personal bankruptcy for many. These policies, in other words will break the back of the middle class financially, politically, and socially. Seen from that context they may be cruel and ruthless but they are not the product of stupidity.<br />Ultimately, Krugman argues, the only beneficiaries of the Bush Regime's economic policies will be a tiny minority of crony capitalists in very specific industries included but not limited to energy companies, auditing firms, and of course defense contractors. The rest of American businesses however can look forward to the flight of foreign investment capital in a manner that is comparable to the Asian economic crisis in the late 90s. Corporate scandals, according to Krugman, required an immediate push for justice and reform on the part of the executive branch of government not for moral reasons but to assure foreign investors that they could trust American companies with their money. But the Bush Regime is bound too tightly to known corporate criminals, according to Krugman and cannot implement the necessary punishments, checks and balances to make the system safe for investment again. This portends disastrous consequences for the American economy for years to come.<br />Some may object to the format of this book that consists of a few introductory essays and a series of the author's New York Times columns arranged chronologically according to specific categories. I found this format particularly useful however, because many of the most important arguments are repeated in several different contexts over an extended period of time. As a result, difficult concepts, such as the relationship between deficit spending and rising interest rates, are presented to the reader and gradually refined through a series of different arguments. By the end of the book, even readers such as myself who are ignorant of economic theory will easily grasp the implications of payroll taxes, deficit spending, supply side economics, and transparent standards for reporting corporate profits.<br />I urge all Americans, regardless of their political convictions to read this book. Conservatives will quickly discover that there is nothing conservative about the Bush Regime's fiscal policies, which are in fact radical. Similarly, this book may help liberals to realize that the most critical issue in American politics today is actually conservative in nature. Do we want a government that disrupts and dismantles the time honored political and economic foundations of America to pursue its own radical agenda, or do we want to honor the conservative tradition of keeping our nation and our way of life intact? Of course ideologues on the right and the left will never agree on anything, but moderate conservatives and progressives should realize that the very fabric of their nation is being altered against their will-and often in their name.	2003-11-13
US	50774246	R22PFE3X70WCFL	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Speaking Truth to Lies and Doing so with Wit	With the same wit and intelligence that characterized his previous bestseller \\"Rush Limbaugh is a Big Fat Idiot and Other Observations\\", comedian and Harvard research fellow, Al Franken exposes and ridicules the mendacity of radical rightwing pundits and politicians. Unlike the targets of this hilarious book, Franken never stoops to lies and insults but instead does something far more effective: he examines their statements and holds them accountable according to publicly verifiable data. Well, OK, he does insult them to some degree but only on the basis of their own proven lies.<br />If you are conservative then this book may be a bit difficult to swallow. One thing that might help is to keep in mind is that Franken isn't out to tarnish conservative values, just to expose the lies and the \\"myths of convenience\\" that are deliberately perpetrated by rightwing extremists. If you are liberal then this book may prove to be a breath of fresh air. After years under siege by right wing think tanks, shock jocks, and the consolidated corporate media, the left finally has a popular and entertaining voice of its own. And to make matters sweeter, he doesn't have to lie to be popular.<br />Exactly how does Franken take on the likes of Ann Coulter, Bill O'Reilly, Sean Hannity, and other rightwing pundits? Together with his Harvard research team, Franken examines their broadcasted or published statements to determine their veracity. Using publicly available search tools such as LexisNexus and Google, Team Franken, as he and his research team are called, examines the various claims of famous rightwing extremists not with the deliberate intent of proving them wrong but simply to see if they can verify that they are correct. In the process of doing this, Team Franken not only exposes their numerous false statements, but also the methodology they use to generate them. Perhaps the most shockingly mendacious of this lot is Ann Coulter, who extracts words from her target publications andrearranges them with no background or context in order to ascribe to them an entirely different meaning. It's sort of like taking the words \\"Al Franken\\" and \\"lies\\" from this review and claiming that my review states that \\"Al Franken lies\\" when clearly it does not. Coulter also deliberately overloads search tools with extra words when she wants to claim that a target publication ignored or failed to print a story. As anyone who uses search tools can tell you, the most effective way to find what you are looking for is to start with the fewest words possible and to progressively add more as you narrow your search. It will be interesting if Coulter, an attorney, ever defends her conduct by claiming she didn't know how to use search tools properly.<br />Franken also goes after the heavy weights such as George W. Bush, Dick Cheney, Karl Rove, and Paul Wolfowitz and exposes how they mislead the public mainly by \\"slight-of-hand-lying\\". The most obvious example, according to Franken is the Bush tax cuts which the Administration claims will save the average American over $1,000 a year. But the keyword in this example is \\"average\\". Franken demonstrates that if you average his salary and Bill Gates' then the result is several billion dollars ON AVERAGE. This does NOT mean that each person has several billion dollars. Proceeding from this example, Franken provides charts that demonstrate how most Americans will gain very little from the tax breaks while those who earn over $300,000 will save a lot.<br />Another example of \\"slight-of-hand\\" lying is the manner in which the Bush Regime addresses the total tax burden of average Americans and promises to relieve it with a tax cut. But what the Bush Regime deliberately fails to mention is that the tax cut is an INCOME TAX cut. Most of us (i.e. those of us who earn less than $300,000 per year) pay a combination of income taxes and PAYROLL TAXES, but the Bush Regime's tax cuts are only income tax cuts which means that individuals earning over $300,000 per year will get a substantially larger proportional tax cut than the rest of us or, put another way, our tax burden will be greater than theirs. Payroll taxes go toward such things as medicare and social security, but it is an accepted fact among all but the most indeologically right-wing economists that the Bush Regime's run-away deficit spending will ultimately result in the dismantling of social security, medicare and other social programs that we currently fund with our payroll taxes. A simpler and more honest way to look at it is that the Bush Regime is transferring the social security surplus to the super rich. That's right, our payroll taxes equal their tax cuts. Slight-of-hand lying.<br />Finally, Franken takes on several \\"myths of convenience\\" including the purportedly liberal media that is owned, managed and edited by conservatives and generally advances the interests of corporations and the state. Franken also demonstrates that most \\"hawkish\\" conservatives avoided serving in the military during the Vietnam War or, as in the case of George W. Bush, used whatever methods were at their disposal to avoid serving in combat. Franken also demonstrates that it was Bill Clinton and not the current administration that implemented a technical revolution in the military that directly contributed to its success in Afghanistan and Iraq. Finally he points out the multi-billion dollar missile defense program rammed into law after 9-11 will not protect the United States from its most dire national security threat: terrorist attacks. <br />If you disagree with the conclusions of this book, or you simply dislike Al Franken, I recommend that you do what he did; use Google and LexisNexis and check his facts to see if they hold up. But be aware that if you do this, you are already departing from the methodology used by the people that Franken critiques in this book, since you will be verifying facts instead of telling lies.	2003-09-30
US	50774246	R3SWIX7XMDQ1FB	1400050308	820650568	Treason: Liberal Treachery from the Cold War to the War on Terrorism	Books	1	9	17	N	N	They Saved Hitler�s Brain	The target audience for this book, as its rabid title implies, is people who want to hate without any real justification for hating. The style and arguments of Treason, bear a remarkable resemblance to other hate manifestos written during the past century, especially by the guy with the funny little moustache. Instead of singling out a specific ethnic group or social class as treasonous and then demanding its annihilation, this one focuses on liberals. It's difficult to tell exactly what Coulter means by \\"liberals\\" since she does not really define the term but one can infer from her musings that a liberal is anyone who is not on board with the most narrowly racist, theocratic traditions of extremist white Christians in American History. The primary implication of this book is that if you oppose this strain of thought in any form then you are a traitor. The secondary implication of this book is that proponents of this type of thinking are perfect, sort of like God. In other words, if you don't worship this mode of thought along with its proponents then your existence is unwarranted. <br />The thing that I find most disheartening about \\"Treason\\" is that the author clearly believes-and even counts on the possibility-that her readers are stupid. The book is filled with several hundred endnotes, which a cursory examination reveals to be distorted, inaccurate, and sometimes fictional. In his best seller, \\"Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them\\", Al Franken and his research team examine every one of Coulter's endnotes and demonstrate their speciousness. Among Coulter's prevaricating techniques are:<br />INVENTING A NEW CONTEXT FROM RANDOMLY SELECTED WORDS<BR>She takes peoples' speech acts out of context. For example, she'll quote a book review in the New York Times as though the reviewer is representing the paper's official point of view rather than recapping an author's argument. It's as though one were to read this review of Ann Coulter's book and conclude that I am a fascist because my review contains the words \\"hate, liberals, treasonous, demand their\\" and \\"annihilation\\". Get it? She extracts words or phrases, removes them from context, and claims that the manner in which she has reassembled them represents a person's or publication's point of view. <br />OVERLOADING SEARCH TOOLS TO ENSURE SHE WON'T FIND SOMETHING<BR>When Coulter wants to claim that \\"liberal\\" publications reject stories of interest to mainstream America she overloads search tools such as LexisNexus and Google to ensure that she won't find what she's looking for. As anyone who uses these tools can tell you, the best way to find what you're looking for is to start out with the least number of words to generate the broadest search result. Coulter does the opposite in order to claim that published material has never been published.<br />ATTRIBUTING STATEMENTS AND ACTIONS TO THE WRONG PERSON<BR>Whether she is deliberately lying or is simply a flawed researcher, Coulter frequently attributes speeches and actions to the wrong individuals. In one instance, Franken proved this merely by calling these people and asking them, \\"hay is it true that you [or your relative] did the following...\\" Um, no she's confused us with someone else.<br />INVENTING A NEW REALITY<BR>Coulter often claims that the press, particularly the Washington Post and the New York Times have a liberal bias. Researchers such as Robert McChesney, and Noam Chomsky long ago demonstrated that practically all of the press, including those two publications, is owned by the same six conglomerates that dictate content largely on the basis of their bottom line profit. Franken goes one step further by demonstrating with specific examples how the \\"liberal\\" press is all too willing to bash liberals and how conservative media outlets have broadcast some of the stories that she finds so unbearably left-wing. The press, as Christopher Hedges demonstrates in his best seller, \\"War is a Force that Gives Us Meaning\\" voluntarily supports the interests of state, especially in times of war. Hardly a liberal bias there.<br />SELECTIVE IGNORANCE.<BR>Coulter claims that all liberals are treasonous and hate America. Franken demonstrates the absurdity of this by pointing to many patriotic liberals who have put their lives on the line for America including former fighter pilot, astronaut, and democratic senator John Glen-a man who Franken jokes must have hated risking his life and winning all those medals for America.<br />Even if you don't like Al Franken or his politics, it is impossible to refute his evidence that Anne Coulter lies in this book and that she thinks her readers are too stupid to realize this. The sad part about this is that there are a lot of legitimate conservative arguments in public discourse today as well as many intelligent conservative writers such as Alan Bloom, Francis Fukuyama, and Samuel Huntington, to name a few. But Coulter implicitly rejects intelligent conservatism and intelligent conservatives and instead argues, that her readers should let her do all of the thinking and hate generating for them. <br />If you are a fan of this book and you don't have time to check its facts, at least bring it up with an intelligent conservative or moderate person in your community-particularly one who studies history--and see what that person thinks. It's great to have political passions and to express them in a persuasive manner, but you shouldn't have to lie or make a fool of your readers to accomplish this.	2003-09-17
US	50774246	R3W558A8Y4P4VR	0743255976	335892424	Pieces of Intelligence: The Existential Poetry of Donald H. Rumsfeld	Books	5	91	99	N	N	A Unique New Voice in American Poetry	The emergence of a unique poetic voice<br />\\"Pieces of Intelligence\\" is the landmark publication of verses written by the previously unpublished existentialist poet, D.H. Rumsfeld. While Rumsfeld is widely recognized and often quoted, his poetry has received surprisingly scant attention until now. <br />Rumsfeld first emerged on the scene during the turbulent Watergate years, however his poetry remained overshadowed by more flamboyant voices of the time such as those of J. Dean, G.G. Liddy, and D. Throat. Beginning in the late 70s, Rumsfeld entered the so called \\"wilderness phase\\" of his creative ruminations and was scarcely heard from. Turning up in a number of odd corporate and government locations, and once even in Baghdad as a guest of Saddam Hussein, much of Rumsfeld's poetry during this time remains classified.<br />Rumsfeld's period of artistic obscurity came to an abrupt end with the tragic events of September 11th, 2001. As a traumatized nation struggled to understand what had taken place, Rumsfeld addressed both its disorientation and its deep nostalgia for better times in his now landmark poem, \\"Glass Box\\" (December 6th, 2001).<br />You know, it's the old glass box at the-<BR>At the gas station, <BR>Where you're using those little things <BR>Trying to pick up the prize, <BR>And you can't find it. <BR>It's-<br />And it's all these arms are going down in there, <BR>And so you keep dropping it <BR>And picking it up again and moving it, <BR>But-<br />Some of you are probably too young to remember those-<BR>Those glass boxes, <BR>But-<br />But they used to have them <BR>At all the gas stations <BR>When I was a kid.<br />The beauty of this poem is that it remains both complex and accessible in a manner that appeals to practically every type of reader. The poem contains a clear sense of regression, with each stanza becoming progressively smaller until the final stanza \\"stabilizes\\" at the same number of lines as the preceding one. Similarly, while the first threestanzas end in incompletion with expressions such as \\"It's-\\", \\"But-\\", and \\"But-\\" the final one firmly anchors the poem with a nostalgic reference to childhood in a bygone era. At a time when the collective psyche of the nation's populace had become traumatized in an unprecedented fashion, \\"Glass Box\\" showed them that the answer to all of their problems lay in the past. The poet had found his voice.<br />While \\"Glass Box\\" may be Rumsfeld's signature poem, it is really his deconstruction of knowledge in the poem \\"Unknown\\" (February 12th, 2002) that demonstrates his skill and subtlety as an existential poet.<br />As we know, <BR>There are known knowns. <BR>There are things we know we know. <BR>We also know <BR>There are known unknowns. <BR>That is to say <BR>We know there are some things <BR>We do not know. <BR>But there are also unknown unknowns, <BR>The ones we don't know <BR>We don't know.<br />Because the musicality of this poem tends to fool many readers, they often miss out on its uncompromising logic. One useful trick to avoid the dreamy cadence produced by the \\"oh\\" sound in all the \\"knowns\\" is to separate them from the rest of the poem an a substantive manner: <br />Know known knowns <BR>know know<br />Know known unknowns <BR>not know<br />Unknown unknowns <BR>don't know don't know.<br />Even by extracting and parsing the most emblematic term of this verse, we must labor to keep up with poet's logic. The beauty of this poem, as with many of Rumsfeld's more subtle ones is that, indeed, by the time he is done we wonder what it is we actually know.<br />While I have quoted two of Rumsfeld's more academic poems in this review, readers will be pleased to learn that he is a poet of tremendous variety, which makes his work infinitely readable. Among other genres, \\"Pieces of Intelligence\\" also features Rumsfeld's haiku, hiphop and free verse. <br />Whether you're a sophisticated student of poetry or just a person who enjoys some really cool verse, I highly recommend purchasing the first publication of D. H. Rumsfeld's poetry. I hope that in future we see more of Rumsfeld's verse including his lost earlier poems from the 70s and 80s.	2003-09-03
US	50774246	R3B8KBIMX20FJL	0973110902	648972897	War and Globalisation: The Truth Behind September 11	Books	3	26	29	N	N	Compelling but not the best 9-11 source out there	&quot;War and Globalization&quot; provides compelling evidence that key members of the Bush regime played a complicit or near-complicit role in the terrorist attacks of September 11th, 2001. Author, Michel Chossudovsky provides an excellent global political and economic context to explain why the current American leadership might be motivated either to plan and execute the attacks, or to at least allow them to happen.<br />Chossudovsky's book is convincing but also very brief. I would love to see a more expanded and in depth version of War and Globalization in the future. Also he approaches his subject in a very thematic manner that borders on a sort of global conspiracy. It's not that he's necessarily wrong or inaccurate, but I believe many readers would find this book more compelling if he presented the facts in less of a thematic framework.	2003-09-03
US	50774246	RBF9SI5JJYRA0	0452284988	848180184	A Long Short War: The Postponed Liberation of Iraq	Books	2	68	114	N	N	Selective Moral Outrage Breeds Selective Inclusion of Facts	I bought this book after having read Christopher Hitchens' \\"The Trial of Henry Kissinger\\" and after having seen him interviewed on television. Hitchens has generally struck me as an intelligent and interesting person in the world of ideas up until the moment I read this book. Now I'm simply asking myself, \\"What went wrong\\"?<br />To my great dismay, I found \\"The Long Short War\\" to be bombastic and rather embarrassing to read. The book contains no factual documentation or references and amounts to little more than shrilly insulting anyone opposed to the American invasion of Iraq. Even this would not be such a bad thing if Hitchens' arguments had any style or substance, but unfortunately very little of this book is intelligent or compelling. <br />Where does one even begin to pick this [book] apart? One could start with Hitchens' belief that the whole problem with Iraq started with Saddam Hussein's invasion of Kuwait in 1990-an action that Hitchens correctly condemns for its aggression and brutality. But Hitchens [doesn't seem to] consider that until the end of the First Gulf War Saddam Hussein implemented practically no foreign policy decision without first checking with the United States and that prior to the invasion of Kuwait, he was essentially given the green light by U.S. Ambassador April Glaspie ....<br />More appalling is Hitchens' statement that the anti-war demonstrations were organized and carried out by people who liked Saddam Hussein and who sympathized with Usama bin Laden. Having photographed and interviewed many protestors in these marches, I can safely state that they were concerned about their nation launching an illegal war of aggression based on falsified or exaggerated evidence and not the preservation of some thug in Baghdad.<br />Slipping deeper into the Neo Conservative ideological vortex, Hitchens makes even wilder and less substantiated claims. Afghanistan was a success. America will liberate Iraq. This will bring peace to the entire Middle East. If a nuclear or chemical bomb whose footprint is traced to Iraq is ever detonated in American city, we will kick ourselves for not having prevented this with preemptive military action. <br />In rattling off these slogans, Hitchens ignores some glaring contradictions. Afghanistan is actually in shambles with no functioning infrastructure, open fighting among rival warlords and the Taliban having regrouped in brigade-level strength. Iraqis-both Shiites and Sunis alike-have demonstrated since day one that they do not want any foreign army in their country whether it removed their tyrant from power or not. The \\"peace\\" that was supposed to spread across the Middle East has so far been characterized by terrorist attacks in Saudi Arabia, by daily insurgencies against the Anglo/British forces in Iraq, and sporadic violence in the Israeli occupied territories. And finally if, God forbid, a weapon of mass destruction is ever detonated in a U.S. city, what makes Hitchens think that its footprint will be traceable to Iraq's feeble if at all existent nuclear arms program? A more likely candidate would be Pakistan, an American ally that already possesses nuclear weapons (and therefore the spent material needed for a \\"dirty\\" bomb), that has a large fundamentalist population, and whose intelligence services maintained deep ties to al Quaeda for years.<br />While it might be understandable for most of us to make such errors, one has to wonder why Hitchens, an intelligent person and veteran journalist, either failed to comprehend the facts or simply ignored them. The answer probably lies with Hitchens' tremendous and entirely understandable sympathy for the Kurds and others who were brutalized by Saddam Hussein. But in feeling for the victims and in hating their oppressor, Hitchens appears to have blinded himself to equally troubling realities. The United States sanctioned and supported Saddam Hussein's oppressive behavior for decades. And as Scott Ridder pointed out, Iraq's fragmented religious and ethnic demographics virtually guarantee that the United States cannot and will not implement an actual representative government in that country.<br />I recommend this book if for no other reason because it demonstrates some of the disastrous consequences of moral outrage. In abhorring one set of wrongs, we should not find ourselves to be the unwitting apologists for another.	2003-07-21
US	50774246	R3HPBND24SWZN0	156025405X	513224163	Perpetual War for Perpetual Peace: How We Got to Be So Hated	Books	4	22	22	N	N	Not perfect but asks the right questions	I bought this book a few months after the terrorist attacks of September 11th because of the second half of its title, \\"How We Came To Be So Hated\\". Like most Americans, this is a question I continuously asked myself during and after September 11th, and as much as I wanted to believe the official, \\"Oh they're just jealous of us\\" explanation it was simply inadequate. In this collection of witty and often self-congratulating essays Vidal does an admirable job of answering that question. His conclusions about why so many foreign nationals hate the United States are hardly revealing to anyone who has read and researched in this area. <br />The truly interesting part of this book, however, is Vidal's focus on domestic terrorism in America and especially the Oklahoma City bombing of 1995. Vidal corresponded with the notorious Oklahoma City bomber, Timothy McVeigh and gained much insight as to his motives for murdering so many of his fellow citizens. During the course of his communication with McVeigh, Vidal came to the same powerful conclusions about him, as did his lawyer Stephen Jones. Chief among these was the belief that McVeigh did not act alone, and that he was responding to what he felt was a rogue government that was out to destroy the lives of rural American families. Vidal points out that McVeigh came from a family of dispossessed farmers from upstate New York and that many of the people with whom he collaborated shared a similar status in the Midwest. Many families lost their farms to large agricultural conglomerates whose efforts to destroy family farms and then consolidate them were fully supported by the government. As a result, according to Vidal, millions of rural American know that their way of life is being destroyed, but they don't have a clear perception of who is doing this and how they are doing it. Consequently, radical militant fringe groups have gained tremendous popularity by advocating violence against perceived enemies including minorities andthe federal government.<br />Vidal concludes that while attacks from al Quaeda and domestic terrorist groups bear no relationship to each other they do have much in common including a powerful hatred of American government policies and a willingness to view civilian targets as collateral damage. Anyone who finds Vidal's reasoning to be absurd should probably check out sociologist Mark Jurgensmeyer's book, \\"Terror in the Mind of God\\". Jurgensmeyer's conclusion--that among other things, terrorists around the globe share powerful feelings of humiliation, a sense of impending marginalization, and the conviction that they are engaged in an apocalyptic \\"all or nothing\\" struggle against their oppressors--strongly supports much of Vidal's thinking in this book.<br />Vidal may not have all the right answers and I'm not sure to what extent I agree with many of his conclusions, but because he is one of the view voices in public life who is asking the right questions, I strongly recommend this book.	2003-06-19
US	50774246	RLX0VHTQXHA92	1560255021	528901183	Dreaming War: Blood for Oil and the Cheney-Bush Junta (Nation Books)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Great Book but Wrong Title	In this collection of witty, thought provoking essays, Gore Vidal makes two powerful points. The first point, which he discusses in brief, and almost superficial terms is that having secured power illegally, the Cheney/Bush Junta was responsible for the terrorist attacks of September 11th either through complicity, or through slightly more forgivable acts of homicidal negligence. The second, and probably more important point, is that following the Second World War the United States was transformed by its leaders from a republic into a \\"national security state\\" that has remained in a continuous state of war since that time. Viewed in the context of this second point, the first one begins to make more sense.<br />Vidal's critique of the Cheney/Bush Junta, and specifically, of its roll in possibly causing and certainly exploiting the terrorist attacks of September 11th is both compelling and flippant. Much of his information is a synthesis of Naffez Mossadeq Ahmed's definitive study on the subject, \\"The War on Freedom\\". While Vidal does an admirable job of recounting the facts, one is better off going to the original source in this case. The important point in these essays is that whether it caused the terrorist attacks of September 11th, or merely exploited them, the Cheny/Bush Junta was primed beforehand to attack Afghanistan and Iraq because of its oil interests in both regions.<br />It is Vidal's numerous essays about America's transformation from a republic to a national security state that is far more worth reading. In these essays, most of which were written during the Clinton years, Vidal provides the necessary historical context for understanding 9/11 and its aftermath. Prior to World War II, America was a regional empire competing with other regional empires. As one of those regional empires, Nazi Germany expanded its power base through military conquest, America needed an excuse to confront Germany and consequently provoked its ally, Japan to initiate hostilities. Following the defeat of Germany and Japan, America now competed with the other victor, the Soviet Union for global domination. To meet this challenge, America placed itself in a state of permanent war against the Soviet Union, its Communist ideology, and its numerous allies and client states. Permanent war required a radical overhaul of American government and society, which gave birth to the defense industry, and to the American version of a police state complete with blacklists, denunciations and show trials. Finally, having defeated the Soviet Union, America was poised to grab whatever it wanted from wherever it wanted beginning with the prime oil transportation route across Afghanistan, and the world's second largest oil reserves in Iraq. But to accomplish this a new transformation was required in the national security state. This transformation included increased defense spending, further consolidation of wealth and power among the elite through tax cuts and deficits (all financed by the ever growing poor and ever shrinking middle class), complicity of the press, and the implementation of totalitarian controls through the USA PATRIOT Act and other measures.<br />Vidal makes it clear that since these are not the kind of things that the American people accept at face value, their implementation is largely dependent on the creation and perpetuation of specific historical myths. Vidal effectively destroys many of these myths including the notion that the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor was unprovoked, that nuking Hiroshima and Nagasaki were necessary to shorten the war (the Japanese offered to surrender months earlier after a bombing mission that destroyed Tokyo), and that Stalin started the Cold War (well, he did, but with a little prodding from us). The implication, of course, is that the causes and consequences of 9/11 have also been molded by immediate historical mythology. \\"They attacked us because they're evil and because they're jealous of our freedoms\\" sounds a lot more appealing than \\" we let them attack us so that we could remilitarize society, clamp down on dissent and make war with other nations whenever we want.\\"<br />While Vidal's essays are intelligent and informative, they also have their share of problems. To begin with, Vidal's writing style is sometimes glib and he frequently boasts about his own knowledge or accomplishments in a manner that is beautifully parodied in the \\"Neal Pollack Anthology of American Literature\\". I also wish Vidal had chosen a different title since his analysis of the forces that shaped American foreign policy is far more in depth (and perhaps more important) than his critique of Cheney and Bush. If any Bush and Cheney fans have gotten this far in review then I urge them to read this book even though parts of it will definitely irritate them. The larger historical issues are not only more interesting than the individual players, but also render them irrelevant.	2003-06-12
US	50774246	R3CLVLID495NLC	0809097044	544761506	Who Owns History? Rethinking the Past in a Changing World	Books	4	5	9	N	N	Each Generation Rewrites History According to its Needs	\\"Who Owns History\\" is a interesting and informative collection of essays by Columbia History professor, Eric Foner, that never quite answer the question posed by the book's title. In the book's preface, Foner points out that history has been and always will be rewritten by different generations of people to answer questions posed by the issues of their times. This is especially true when present problems closely resemble those of a past era. During the Civil Rights struggle in the 1950s and 60s for example, new historical interpretations of the Reconstruction era began to emerge, largely because the political and ethical issues practically mirrored each other. Foner launches into the book by stating that History is simultaneously owned by everyone and by no one.  But while the chapters that follow are interesting and worth reading in their own right, they never really examine the ideological struggle between various interests to control historical discourse. Some of the more interesting essays are described in the sections below.<br />SOCIALISM<BR>In his essay entitled \\"Why Is There No Socialism\\", Foner examines issues such as the diverse background of the working class that ostensibly contributed to racial, social, and political conflicts, the narrowness of the American electoral system, government oppression. Foner concludes that while all of these factors played an important role in preventing the rise of socialism in America, none of them were the deciding factor. In comparing the development of class consciousness in Europe and America, Foner argues that the comparative basis of the question itself may be flawed since it is possible after all, that socialism has been on the decline in Europe. Foner concludes that time will tell whether the United States is behind Europe in the development of socialism or ahead of Europe in recognizing its decline.<br />AMERICAN CITIZENSHIP<BR>In his essay, \\"Who Is An American\\", Foner examines how the definition of American citizenship has evolved throughout the nation's history. American citizenship wasn't clearly delineated, according to Foner, until shortly after the Civil War. The Civil Rights Act of 1866 granted citizenship to all people born in the United States (except native Americans) and defined the rights of citizenship regardless of ethnicity. The subsequent failure of Reconstruction, however, reinforce the racial concept of citizenship among White leaders, particularly in the South who successfully overturned many of the rights spelled out in the Civil Rights Act of 1866. During the great migrations at the beginning of the Twentieth Century, the power elite came to identify citizenship with wages. Those who made money were Americans, and those who were willing to work for slave wages (Eastern Europeans, Irish, Italians, and other \\"undesirables\\" according to the attitude of the times) were not. Subsequent historical events including the Cold War, the expanding economy, and the Civil Rights Movement added a civic definition to what constituted American citizenship. An American was defined as any freedom loving individual willing to work and to defend democracy. Foner concludes that citizenship is not a Whiggish progress toward greater and greater freedom, but a more complex and dynamic one in which gains are made and lost depending on historical circumstances. <br />BLACKS AND THE US CONSTITUTION<BR>Foner's essay \\"Blacks and the US Constitution details how an increasingly conservative Supreme Court has gradually rolled back many of the civil rights gains made by blacks particularly in areas like equal treatment in the workplace. Ironically, many of the conservative Supreme Court justices do this for the sake of preserving the \\"original intent\\" of the founding fathers with respect to the Constitution, while ignoring the fact that they deliberately structured the language of the sacred parchment to enable modification as unforeseen critical circumstances arose. Foner indicates that to restrict civil rights and other forms of egalitarian legislation in fact has little to do with the \\"original intent\\" of the founding fathers so much as the ideological intent of conservative judges.<br />\\"Who Owns History\\" will appeal to anyone who is interested in how historical interpretations change according to the requirements of different generations. It will also interest anyone with an interest in progressive issues such as labor, race relations, and the development of different ideologies. This book will probably not appeal to those who believe that history should be taught as a uniform and immutable set of ideas used to guide students to a \\"correct\\" understanding of their country and its values.	2003-05-23
US	50774246	R3B508T5X6B3Z4	0465027261	922193941	The Grand Chessboard: American Primacy And Its Geostrategic Imperatives	Books	4	8	13	N	N	Fascinating and important however tediously written	Written in 1998, \\"The Grand Chessboard\\" is political science professor and former Secretary of State, Zbigniew Brzezinski's interpretation of both the challenges facing the United States following the demise of the Soviet Union, and the most viable response to those challenges. Although written with an exceptionally dull version of the already dry language and style that typically constitutes political theory, this book is worth reading for several reasons. I became interested in this book, at first because of the critical role it played in Nafeez Mosaddeq Ahmed's analysis of the Bush regime's role the attacks of September 11th, 2001 in his book \\"The War on Freedom\\" and then because of how closely Brzezinski's thinking seemed to mirror that of the Neo Conservative theorists at the Project for a New American Century Institute, many of whom currently serve in high levels of the executive branch of government and the military bureaucracy. Finally, like many of my fellow reviewers, I have always been fascinated by global geo-politics. If you are approaching \\"The Grand Chessboard\\" from any of these perspectives, it will be a fascinating experience despite itself. <br />Brzezinski's argument is a simple one. With the fall of the Soviet Union, the United States found itself in the unique historical position of being the world's only remaining super power. In this sense, traditional balance of power considerations were no longer relevant. Instead, Brzezinski argues, the United States was the power and consequently had an obligation to either guide the world to a new security framework-by force if necessary-or to watch it descend into anarchy. Much to his credit, Brzezinski argues that the United States must undertake this role with benign intentions and acknowledges that without international cooperation, primarily with the European Union, but no less importantly with Russian and China, its efforts are doomed to failure. At odds with this assertion, however, is his frightening statement that the American public would be unwilling to support the military requirements of America's new global role unless it felt under attack as the result of an event of similar or greater magnitude to Pearl Harbor. Here Brzezinski contradicts himself. On the one hand he imbues the United States with a critical historic responsibility. On the other hand he feels that America can only undertake this responsibility if the public is shocked-or perhaps even fooled-into accepting it. The contradiction between these two assertions is troubling and indicates that the foundation of Brzezinski's argument may rest more on his ideological principles than on a rational examination of global security.<br />Timing is another contraction in Brzezinski's thinking. On the one hand, Brzezinski states that as the only super power the United States must fill the vacuum that has replaced traditional balance of power politics. On the other hand, he urges the United States to do this quickly before the emergence of a new rival such as a more militarily and economically robust China. Why? What does the United States have to accomplish so urgently before this vacuum is replaced by a new balance of power dynamic involving the United States and any of its future rivals? The implication, of course, is that before the emergence of a new rival takes place the United States must advance from a position of mere lone super power status to one of global domination. It is the indication of this nasty little policy shift that captures the attention of analysts such as Nafeez Mosaddeq Ahmed. The United States is in a position to take over the world but the American public hardly supports the type of military aggression associated with the great empires of history and the totalitarian states of the recent past. September 11th, according to Mosaddeq, may well have been the type of Pearl Harbor that the United States requires, according to Brzezinski, if it is going to undertake its new geo-strategic responsibility.<br />While I found Ahmed's conspiracy study extremely compelling, after reading \\"The Grand Chessboard\\" it seemed to me that he vastly overstated the contribution Brzezinski's thinking may have contributed to such a plan. Throughout the book, and in at least one recent article he wrote for the Washington Post, Brzezinski repeatedly affirmed his view that America cannot pursue its geo-strategic responsibilities without strengthening and building on international partnerships with traditional European allies and with rival/partners such as China and Russia. If the Neo Conservatives have seized upon Brzezinski's ideas to justify their long stated quest for global military domination, they have only done so with a minute portion of them, and have largely ignored the rest.<br />I have only two complaints about this otherwise excellent book. In first place, no matter how important the context, I quickly became bored with the detailed descriptions of countless \\"geo-strategic pivots\\" from Poland to Uzbekistan. Yes, they are relevant and important, but they just aren't as fun to read about as the role of \\"geo-strategic players\\" such as France, German, Russia, and China, not to mention \\"retired\\" geo-strategic players such as Britain. My second complaint is of the maps, which were relevant and useful but which also seemed to lack authority when scribbled over with childishly rendered circles. A small pet peeve. I highly recommend this book, but only if the subject matter falls within your domain of interest. If you're not into global strategies, it will bore you to death, but otherwise-let the games begin!	2003-04-22
US	50774246	RZSB189NR1UTD	0670030309	338299274	Secrets: A Memoir of Vietnam and the Pentagon Papers	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Painfully Relevant	\\"Secrets\\" is Daniel Ellsberg's superb memoir detailing the period of his life from childhood to his acquittal of criminal charges for releasing the now famous Pentagon Papers. This book is a superb read on several levels. It is fascinating and important historical source, since Ellsberg participated in defense planning as a Rand researcher and as a Pentagon deputy during the critical period when the United States decided to occupy Vietnam. Equally as important is the ethical dilemma Ellsberg chronicles of having to choose between the safety and comfort of maintaining his bureaucratic sense of loyalty or making dangerous personal sacrifices for the greater good of his country and his conscience. And contrary to most political memoirs that are often tediously written and sprinkled with excessive namedropping, this book reads like a novel.<br />Dan Ellsberg began his career as a self-described cold warrior. Prior to obtaining a Ph.D. in economics from Harvard, Ellsberg served in the Marines as a peacetime company commander. After completing his graduate education he worked as a researcher in the Rand Institute where one of his projects involved estimating the total number of global casualties resulting from a nuclear exchange between the United States and Russia (hundreds of millions of people within the first twenty-four hours). Ellsberg undertook this work because since childhood he found the practice of civilian terror bombing, as he understood it, to be morally repellant. Thus it should come as no surprise that when called to work in the Pentagon as the assistant to Assistant Secretary of Defense John T. McNaughton, Ellsberg already brought a strong sense of moral purpose to the job, a situation that ultimately resulted in profound consequences both for him and for the government he served.<br />While serving in the Pentagon, Ellsberg witnessed the immediate confusion of the Gulf of Tonkin incident and the Johnson Administration's subsequent decision to falsify theparticulars of that incident as a pretext for invading Vietnam. Readers will probably be struck with the same sense of amazement that Ellsberg was about how America's military bureaucracy actually functions. From one perspective, Ellsberg was stunned by the sheer volume of crises that top officials including his boss and the president's cabinet, had to deal with in rapid succession. While Ellsberg admired his colleagues and superiors he often wondered if it was really possible to run a government by crisis hopping in this manner. <br />From another perspective, Ellsberg was deeply disturbed by the standard policy of lying within the military bureaucracy. It may surprise readers to know that the military never had any illusions about the possibility of winning the Vietnam War. In 1964, according to Ellsberg, top military officials briefed the president and his cabinet with astonishing accuracy on the precise number soldiers required (1.5 million), for a specific duration of time (8 years), and a large number of resulting casualties (50,000) and no guarantee of victory. Despite such dire warnings, a sanguine and poorly defined policy was implemented, and when it quickly began to yield disastrous results the president and his top officials lied to each other and to the American people about what was really happening. While Ellsberg correctly concedes that there are many instances when it is practical for the highest levels of government to conceal information from the American people, he also observes a kind of bureaucratic pathology at work. Top officials including McNamara often provided favorable reports to the president, which they personally did not believe in and which they knew would result in disaster but which their positions and careers compelled them to do. As a result Ellsberg notes, the highest levels of government were not able learn from their mistakes in Vietnam and to adjust accordingly. Instead top officials developed what Ellsberg terms a process ofsystematic \\"anti-learning\\" which in layman's terms means that they saw what they wanted to see instead of what was actually happening.<br />Ellsberg's observation of the Pentagon and Executive Branch's process of systematic anti-learning was powerfully reinforced by his subsequent personal experience when he served as a State Department official in Vietnam. Ellsberg was brave enough and fortunate enough to traverse unsecured roads in hostile territory with the legendary civilian general, John Paul Vann. He witnessed both the plight of bogged down American soldiers and the resourcefulness of the determined Vietnamese guerillas and concluded that even if nuclear weapons were introduced, the war was ultimately unwinable. Ellsberg quickly concluded that America was faced with a war that its leaders had always known they could not win, that it was currently in the process of losing, and which the highest levels of the military and government refused to view in realistic terms.<br />Ellsberg's opposition to the war took place gradually and culminated in the realization that America was in the process of destroying a generation of young men by sending them to war or imprisoning them for opposing the war. Shortly afterward, Ellsberg decided to risk a life sentence in prison by releasing the Pentagon papers to congress. The Pentagon papers are an astounding collection of documents both in their volume (several thousand papers) and in the frankness with which they make record the official process of lying to the American public. Many well-meaning congressional officials at first offered to produce the Pentagon papers to their colleagues on Ellsberg's behalf but ultimately declined for career reasons. Consequently Ellsberg released them to the media who subsequently disseminated them to the public.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone who wants a first hand view of how the highest levels of American government work. Be warned, however, that while Ellsberg's story is ultimately worth knowing, his revelations about the government are frightening and depressing. It is interesting to note that in several public speeches ...Dan Ellsberg has frequently drawn parallels to his own experiences chronicled in this book, and to America's current foreign policy with respect to Iraq. Obviously this is an issue that readers must decide on their own, but if anything else, it makes \\"Secrets\\" a highly relevant book to read.	2003-04-19
US	50774246	RJ8CQ7QPPZTD6	0452283914	569076996	The Best Democracy Money Can Buy	Books	5	85	89	N	N	One of the Best Books Money Can Buy	\\"The Best Democracy Money Can Buy\\" is a must read for anyone-conservative or liberal-who wants to get a different perspective on what is happening in the world than the one that is consistently portrayed by the consolidated corporate media. While the controversial title of this book implies a liberal critique of Western values and institutions, it actually accomplishes something very different. Veteran investigative reporter, Greg Palast publishes some of the news stories that the consolidated corporate media refuses to report. While some may blanch at the targets of Palast's investigations, which include corrupt politicians, crooked companies, world finance organizations, and the consolidated corporate media, few can deny the accuracy and integrity of his reports. Palast is an independent reporter who originally specialized in racketeering investigations. His methods include scrupulously studying corporate documents, and examining the testimony of whistleblowers, many of whom approach him personally out of disgust toward their parent organizations. Palast does not work for a for-profit media company and is not beholden to corporate interests. This makes him one of the few honest voices in public life.<br />Chief among Palast's exposés is the illegal manner in which Florida Secretary of State, Kathleen Harris, and Governor Jeb Bush illegally denied tens of thousands of African American citizens their right to vote in the 2000 presidential election in Florida. Palast details the methods used by Bush and Harris to exclude eligible African American from voting such as manipulating database records to wrongfully categorize thousands of African Americans as felons, or wrongfully claiming that convicted felons who has completed their sentences in other states could not vote in Florida.<br />Palast also exposes the presidential instructions from the Clinton and Bush (Jr.) administrations that forced dedicated FBI agents to ignore any leads to Saudi terrorists that implicated the Saudi royal family, or people from that region with influential ties to the U.S. government. When it came to investigating Saudi terrorist links, according to Palast, under Clinton investigators were ordered to turn a blind eye, while under bush they were ordered to shut both eyes. While both Clinton and Bush were concerned about alienating a key American ally in the Middle East, Palast demonstrates, that the latter took more excessive steps to suppress the investigation of Saudi terrorists, since many of them had tentative links to his own family business, including those who invested in his first oil company, Arbusto, and those-mainly members of the Bin Laden family-who sat with his father (the first President Bush) on the board of the Carlysle Group. Palast does not believe George W. Bush was complicit in the attacks of September 11th, but he argues that had Clinton and Bush Jr. not interfered in FBI anti-terrorist investigations, the attacks of September 11th might well have been prevented. <br />The most heartbreaking chapter of this book is the one that details how the IMF, the WTO, and the World Bank work in concert to systematically destroy vulnerable countries. In nation after nation, Palast details the insidious four-step program these organizations employ ostensibly to provide aid to economically beleaguered nations, when in fact the opposite occurs. In the first step, on condition of providing aid, these organizations demand that countries privatize public infrastructure components such gas, electricity, and water. In the second step, powerful banks buy up the infrastructure components and immediately make them \\"more efficient\\" by laying off the bulk of their workers. In the third step, the financiers drastically raise the cost basic materials such as water to an unaffordable level. In the third step, riots predictably occur to protest unaffordable costs of basic living material, and in the fourth step, this becomes an excuse for capital flight,which in turn severely devalues these privatized components. The end result, according to Palast is a few banks and companies get richer from being handed a cost free monopoly that they can squeeze and then discard, while countries that once had a sustainable way of life are rendered destitute. <br />There are, of course some exceptions to this unhappy process. Botswana, for example, simply rejected the IMF altogether. When Venezuelan president Hugo Chavez, did the same thing, according to Palast, he faced an American sponsored coup that was reinforced by false or nonexistent coverage in the American consolidated corporate media.<br />What might astound most readers is that predatory acts of privatization in the name of progress are not limited to vulnerable third world nations. In fact, corporate and financial moguls have preyed upon Europe and the United States with mixed results. When privatization of public water works sent prices up several hundred percent in Britain, the citizens of that country simply paid their bills. In San Diego California, however, consumers simply refused to pay their drastically marked up electric bills after that utility was deregulated. Instead, they effectively boycotted their own robbery by paying bills at the old rate and organizing a political movement around the process. Unlike Ecuador, where people were shot and beaten for protesting drastic hikes in the price of drinking water, San Diegans successfully opposed the scheme.<br />The implied conclusion of Palast's research, as noted in the ironic title, is that America and global capitalism are hardly democratic. Their behavior, according to Palast's example is frighteningly similar to that of a loan shark. No matter what they give you, they will always wind up extracting more than you can possibly return. As a result we may be on the verge of experiencing an odd form of historical determinism: the decent from capitalism, back to feudalism.<br />Be warned that much of that material in this book is depressing, as Palast readily acknowledges. But along side the corruption and abuses chronicled here are the stories of countless individuals who either oppose such practices or who covertly assist those who do so. At the end of the book Palast provides numerous resources for anyone who wants to help oppose predatory institutional practices in their communities or other parts of the world.	2003-04-03
US	50774246	R1UFEOZJDRK5NQ	0520232062	266017875	Terror in the Mind of God: The Global Rise of Religious Violence (Comparative Studies in Religion and Society)	Books	4	16	19	N	N	I thought they were just jealous of us	First, let me state that this book does not excuse or justify terrorism in any way, but instead examines different terrorist groups from around the globe and finds that they share a surprisingly common mindset. This book will be useful to anyone who is genuinely curious about what motivates terrorists, but will not be helpful to people who consider terrorists to be so evil that their mindset isn't even worth examining.<br />In this book, Mark Jurgensmeyer, a Sociology professor at the University of California at Santa Barbara examines the social and cultural motives of terrorist organizations that span a variety of religions including Christianity (European and American), Judaism, Islam, Sikhism, Hinduism, and the Aum Shinrikyo religious cult in Japan, which he mistakenly attributes as a sect of Buddhism. Jurgensmeyer examines the motives of terrorists in all of these religions in a series of interviews that resembles journalism more than a scientific study. <br />Jurgensmeyer arrives at some powerful conclusions that refute the notion that terrorists are motivated to kill because they are jealous of the target country's wealth and institutions. Instead, Jurgensmeyer finds that even from such diverse ethnic groups and belief systems, terrorists share a common mindset that includes fear of cultural or national annihilation, fear of impending marginalization, and an increasing sense that their fears and grievances can only be settled in an apocalyptic \\"all or nothing\\" scenario. Jurgensmeyer concludes that while other factors such as forced impoverishment and economic doom play a role in motivating terrorists, they are not as significant as the above named factors. Two other issues common to terrorists around the globe, however are a need for sexual control (i.e. for men to institutionally or symbolically control the sexuality of women), and an urge for individual, cultural, or national recognition resulting in a spectacular and murderous \\"demonstration\\" of their identity. Among Jurgensmeyer's more frightening conclusions is that by the time terrorists develop an apocalyptic mindset, they are almost never able to revert to conventional modes of settling their grievances; in other words, they remain terrorists until they die.<br />While Jurgensmeyer's study is informative, it also contains some limitations. To begin, with Jurgensmeyer never addresses the underlying political, or economic policies that produce the terrorist mind, nor does he examine patterns of religious development that-once formed-exacerbate it. For the former you might want to look at Tariq Ali's \\"Clash of Fundamentalisms\\", or Noam Chomsky's \\"9/11\\", and for the latter, you may want to check out Karen Armstrong's \\"The Battle for God\\". Because Jurgensmeyer focuses on terrorist groups, he also does not address the issue of state terrorism (terrorist acts that the military forces of powerful nations perpetrate against the civilians of weaker ones). Finally, I wish this book had been organized a little differently since Jurgensmeyer repeats many of the same conclusions in each chapter that references a different terrorist group. <br />These issues aside, this is an important and informative book that should be high on the list of anyone who is genuinely curious about why America was attacked on September 11th, 2001.	2003-02-26
US	50774246	R12F2Q1GITS7BC	1887128751	969948196	Fortunate Son: George W. Bush and the Making of an American President	Books	4	11	18	N	N	Surprisingly Sympathetic	Like many readers, I expected \\"Fortunate Son\\" to provide a shocking exposé of George W. Bush. While, author J.H. Hatfield provides powerful evidence that George W. Bush committed at least two felonies (he was busted for cocaine possession, and he was absent without leave from the latter portion of his service in the national guard), he fails to provide any shocking revelations about his career or character. Hatfield's portrayal of Bush is, in fact, surprisingly sympathetic. <br />As a boy of seven, Bush had to cope with the tragic death of his younger sister and with the adult responsibility of comforting his grieving mother. While Hatfield does not psychoanalyze Bush, his account of Bush's early childhood trauma helps to explain why the adult Bush subsequently reacted viciously toward real and perceived opponents of his family. It also provides a more plausible explanation of Bush's drinking problem than merely crediting it to the antics of a spoiled rich kid.<br />Perhaps the book's most surprising revelation is that Bush is not stupid and in fact has always been a highly astute and capable politician. Contrary to popular perception, Bush didn't tag along on his father's political fortunes, he played a decisive role in shaping them. Bush is credited with pioneering the \\"Willie Horton\\" strategy and other negative campaign maneuvers that rescued his father's beleaguered 1988 presidential campaign, and with doing a lot of the \\"dirty work\\" that assured the elder Bush's victory. Bush subsequently began his first Texas gubernatorial campaign by analyzing the errors of his father's failed 1992 presidential bid and determining how he could avoid repeating them himself. These example and numerous others in this book, demonstrate that while Bush may lack intellect, he is highly analytical and is clearly a learning animal. <br />Hatfield also provides the most illuminating perspective of Bush's business strategy. In several instances, Bush started an oil company based on flawed assumptions about the rising price of oil (it went down when he thought it would go up) and subsequently turned to his father's powerful associates for help. When these men acquired Bush's failing companies and made him the CEO of the resulting new corporate entity, Bush obtained the most favorable terms with which he and they could liquidate their stock at a tremendous profit before bankrupting the company altogether at the expense of its shareholder and employees. Many years later, Bush applied these principles to his management of the national economy during a time of deep recession.<br />Hatfield's account of Bush's drinking problem also reveals him to be a surprisingly sympathetic person. After the birth of his twin daughters, Bush faced the fact that he had a drinking problem and attempted to quit. While success did not come instantly, Bush was able to give up drinking altogether, partly with the help of his spiritual mentor, the Reverend Billie Graham and partly from honestly examining his own sense of pain and failure. <br />Finally, Hatfield, destroys the myth of George W. Bush as the hapless puppet of his father's powerful friends. True, for most of his adult life, Bush was helped and exploited by these men, but it is important to note that he also helped and exploited them much to his own advantage. In fact, part of Bush's tremendous political talent lies in his ability to influence more powerful and experienced people from an apparent position of weakness. <br />While \\"Fortunate Son\\" is not well written, and contains few shocking revelations about his character or conduct, it paints a superbly informative portrait of Bush as a human being and as a politician. If they ignore the sensationalism behind the book's generally un-sensational allegations, Bush friends and foes alike can obtain a fascinating glimpse of who Bush the person actually is.	2003-01-21
US	50774246	R1MNCFX1SU3IYR	0684818868	458361116	Lies My Teacher Told Me : Everything Your American History Textbook Got Wrong	Books	5	497	546	N	N	Honest History Does NOT Diminish America in Any Way	In this superb book, James Loewen argues what most Americans have understood since childhood, namely that our American History textbooks, are, boring, theme-driven, inaccurate and largely ineffective at imparting the richness of their subject. While the books title and argument may seem like a leftist gerrymander, they are not. Loewen, a professor of Sociology at the University of Vermont (who spent several years analyzing ten high school American History textbooks totaling more than 8,000 pages), is not out to reverse the traditional cast of heroes and villains in American history. Instead, Loewen advocates an honest and inclusive history that simply reveals events as they actually happened. While this may expose some dark truths about heroic people and events in American history, and may cast historical villains in a new light, Loewen does not believe it will cause students to despise their country. On the contrary, he argues that revealing conflicts and problems that our text books ignore or conceal will make American history come alive and will almost certainly enhance students appreciation for their country. Ironically, while many textbook editors and teachers fear that altering their inaccurate and theme-driven content will cause students to despise their country, they miss the fact that this is precisely what the specious, vapid nature of the textbooks already accomplishes. Some of Loewens interesting observations are contained below:<br />COLUMBUS<br />Columbus was almost certainly not the first European to discover or colonize North America. He tortured and mutilated the native population of Haiti and eventually exterminated it by working the inhabitants to death searching for gold. All of these facts are available in the journals of Columbus and his colleagues.<br />NATIVE AMERICANS<BR>Prior to the arrival of white settlers, North America was thickly settled with tens of millions of Indian tribes that formed a complex civilization consisting of advanced agricultural techniques (guess where white settlers learned it from), trade, roads, villages, and government. The white settlers wiped out most of these people at first inadvertently by spreading disease, and then deliberately through wars of extermination. History text books often present Indians as sparse, primitive, violent (it was actually white people who scalped Indians), and inevitable victims of progress.<br />RECONSTRUCTION<BR>For more than one hundred years, history textbooks have characterized post-Civil War Reconstruction as a combination of white corruption and black ineptitude. Few mention that the ultimate cause of Reconstructions failure was the terrorism that some white southerners perpetrated against black people and whites who favored reconstruction. Many of the so called carpetbaggers and scallywags were in fact anti racists who attempted to help rebuild the south along egalitarian lines. And when given even minimal opportunities (most of which were subsequently dismantled by the government), blacks were able to build successful businesses and to win the Kentucky Derby a few times.<br />LABOR AND SOCIAL CLASSES<BR>High school textbooks never admit that America even has social classes. They treat labor problems as something that happened a long time ago and which the government fixed of its own good will.<br />PROGRESS<BR>The textbooks also present the United States as the vanguard of social progress while failing to admit that many of the social issues we still strive for such as equality between men and women have already been accomplished by other nations or people in history.<br />CIVIL RIGHTS<BR>According to American history text books, the government spontaneously decided to give civil rights to blacks and other oppressed minorities, but this decision did not result from a populist struggle that was initially met with state sponsored violence and brutality.<br />VIETNAM<BR>Similarly U.S. history textbooks argued thatthe Vietnam War sort of happened and sort of ended. They dont examine why the U.S. got involved in the war and why it stopped fighting. They also overlook the brutality of the war that was waged largely against civilians on whom the United States dropped three times as much bomb tonnage as all theatres of World War II combined including Hiroshima and Nagasaki.<br />WHY IS HISTORY TAUGHT THIS WAY<BR>Perhaps the most fascinating part of Loewens book is his examination of why high school history books are permeated with boredom and lies. Surprisingly, Loewen does not blame this phenomenon on the power elite that ultimately controls the publication of these books. Instead, Loewen concludes that a number of damaging, but less insidious processes are at work. For example, since many history teachers dont really know their subject, they are afraid to challenge or teach outside of the textbooks, which become a source of pedagogical authority. Even qualified and highly motivated teachers are often afraid to deviate from the textbook because they believe that failing to paint a rosy picture of America will somehow hurt students. Finally, there is the textbook publishing industry that is understandably motivated to sell books more than it is to tell the truth.<br />Loewen correctly concludes that when you unmask many of the lies in U.S. History text books, America does not suddenly become odious, and while people like Columbus may become more controversial, they are not transformed into villains. Instead American history is full of conflict that displays the richness and fascination of its history. Concealing and distorting this conflict is sort of like telling a child that his/her parents are perfect. The child will not only get bored with these themes but will quickly learn that they are false. If the child learns that his/her parents made mistakes, then far from hating them, the child will probably appreciate their humanity and learn more from them. History is thesame way.	2003-01-15
US	50774246	R3F23B548HTMDL	0679640401	166313123	Islam: A Short History	Books	4	15	24	N	N	Useful Crash Course on Islam	Although Islam, as Edward Said pointed out, is too complex and diverse to be summarized easily, Karen Armstrong does an excellent job of it here. Armstrong corrects many Western misconceptions of Islam, and also points out many of Islam's flaws and weaknesses throughout history. This book will prove useful and rewarding for people of any political belief or faith who simply want to learn about Islam. Extremists who are either for or against Islam, however, will probably not enjoy the objective and analytical nature of this book. Some of Armstrong's salient points are contained below.<br />ISLAM ACCEPTS OTHER FAITHS<BR>Throughout most of its history, according to Armstrong, Islam has been remarkably accepting of other faiths. The Koran instructs Moslems to accept other people \\"of the book\\" including Christians and Jews, and many Islamic scholars argue that had Mohamed been aware of Buddhists and Native American shamans they would have been included in this requirement. In most of the places where Islam triumphed, it allowed other religions to coexist with it peacefully. For example, in Moslem Spain before the rise of Ferdinand and Isabella, Christians, Jews, and Moslems practiced their faith in peace and harmony. The strain of violent intolerance in today's Islamic fundamentalist sects, according to Armstrong, is a response to modernization and foreign occupation that is only decades old.<br />ISLAM IS NOT A RELIGION OF AGGRESSIVE CONQUEST<BR>Armstrong demystifies the age-old Western notion, that Islam is an aggressive juggernaut. Islam owes its early military successes, not to its ideology or fervor, but to fundamental sociological shifts among many of the Arab tribes that derived their income through plundering pilgrims on their way to Mecca. (The Pilgrimage to Mecca predates Islam). Because Islam does not permit one member of its faith to attack or rob another, this mode of income was no longer viable. Consequently Mohamed and subsequent leaders directed these tribes toward external conquests. In most cases throughout its history, Islamic conquest were the result of a complex amalgam of military action and diplomacy that usually resulting in accommodating the belief systems of the conquered.<br />THE CRUSADES<BR>Western history has frequently characterized the crusades as a Christian liberation of the Holy Land from a violent horde. In fact, Christians, Moslems, and Jews lived more or less harmoniously in Jerusalem and were able to practice their religions freely until the arrival of the Christians, who massacred Moslems and Jews and left their corpses in the streets for months. The eventual re conquest of Jerusalem by Saladin, which is viewed as a catastrophe in Western history, ended years of brutality and mass murder.<br />SOCIAL JUSTICE<BR>Islam contains powerful provisions of social justice and egalitarianism that are derived from the ancient tribal values of the Arabian Peninsula. Wealthy and powerful Moslems are required by law to go to the aid of poorer and weaker ones. It is interesting to note that whether one agrees with them or not, many terrorists who practice Islamic fundamentalism, justify their actions in this context.<br />UNIFIED MONOLITHIC ISLAM<BR>Armstrong points out that contrary to popular Western conceptions, Islam is not a monolithic and unified belief system but a diverse one that is fragmented according to religious and cultural differences as well as geography. In terms of belief, Islam is roughly divided into Shiites, who advocate a strict imitation of Mohamed's life, Sunnis, who advocate following Islamic laws and jurisprudence, and Sufis, whose practice centers around mystical and metaphysical issue. Within these groupings are additional ones, such as Wahabbism, the virulent fundamentalist sect followed by Bin Laden, and the Saudi royal family. Islam also differs from place to place. The attitudes of Moslems in Turkey for example will probably differ considerably from those in Saudi Arabia or Western China. This is a particularly interesting point considering the highly generalized manner in which Islam is treated by Western news and politics. It also casts questions on the sort of \\"us and them\\" theories in Samuel Huntington's \\"Clash of Civilizations and Remaking of World Order\\". Why, for example, did Huntington distinguish certain Christian civilizations as \\"Western, Orthodox\\", and \\"Latin\\" because of religious, racial, or geographic differences, but fail to apply the same types of distinctions to Moslems. Using the same set of criteria, even if Huntington referenced something like \\"Shiite civilization, Sunni civilization, Sino-Islamic civilization\\" and \\"East Asian-Islamic civilization\\" he would still be lumping very different types of people together in overly broad categories.<br />WEAKNESSES<BR>Armstrong does not hesitate to point out many of Islam's weaknesses the most notable of which is its failure to reconcile religious law with the exigencies of modernization, a problem that arguably plagues much of the Islamic world to this day.<br />Armstrong's study provides an invaluable resource for anyone wishing to obtain a general understanding of Islam from a lucid and accessible text. Reading this book, however, will not make anyone an \\"expert\\" on Islam and it should probably be supplemented by additional material.	2003-01-11
US	50774246	RVBTUFC8EQUU8	1583225374	160702193	Secret Trials and Executions: Military Tribunals and the Threat to Democracy	Books	5	19	22	N	N	Destroying America in Order to Save it	In \\"Secret Trial and Executions\\", Barbara Olshansky , Assistant Legal Director for the Center for Constitutional Rights, examines the Military Order signed by the Bush Regime on November 13th 2001, that effectively suspended constitutional rights for all non citizens living in the United States and subjected them to arrest, secret trials, and secret executions. The direct implication of this order, according to Olshansky is that if you live in the United States and are not an American citizen, the President, or the Secretary of Defense can order you to be arrested, tried, and executed with no public accountability or explanation other than stating that you are a terrorist. While the Military Order contains official language regarding the humane treatment of prisoners, Olshanky correctly points out that with the removal of constitutional protection and the complete lack of government accountability, humane treatment and a fair trial depend exclusively on the good will of the arresting authorities. Furthermore, the Military Order's grounds for arresting, trying and executing non-citizens is so overly broad, according to Olshansky, that the government can effectively perform these actions at will without having to account for themselves. <br />While American citizens might be tempted to dismiss the implications of the Military Order as not really pertaining to them, Olshansky points out that this isn't really true. Since the birth of the nation, all residents of the United States regardless of their citizenship status enjoyed the same constitutional protection. By eliminating the constitutional protection that has been enjoyed by all non-citizens including the ancestors of most American citizens, Olshansky argues that the Bush Regime is effectively destroying a 200 year-old judicial practice that is the cornerstone of American government, and is replacing it with arbitrary, despotic authority. <br />Olshansky also points out that contrary to the President's claims, theBush regime does not possess the legal authority to arbitrarily arrest, try, and execute non-citizens as terrorists. Contrary to the President's first legal claim, neither the constitution nor any federal statute authorize him to create military courts to try all suspected terrorists against the United States. Contrary to the President's second claim, while the Congressional Joint Resolution does authorize the Use of Military Force and permits the president to activate reserves and send troops to Afghanistan, it does not authorize him to set up military courts and to try any captives resulting from the use of force. It also does not authorize him to randomly arrest, try, and kill non-citizens. And contrary to the President's third claim, while sections 831 and 836 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) delineate the rules by which the President may conduct military hearings, they do not authorize him to create military hearings. <br />In the past, the United States Department of State has roundly condemned nations such as China, Egypt and Peru for dispensing justice through secret military trials identical to the ones created by the Bush regime's military order. By setting up the same type of government, Olshanky correctly argues, the United States is effectively declaring open season on human rights. Olshansky concludes that Americans are not stupid or callous enough to confuse the word \\"terrorist\\" with the word \\"immigrant\\".	2002-12-20
US	50774246	R3D55EM5K5NBB4	0930852400	695411256	The War on Freedom: How and Why America was Attacked, September 11, 2001	Books	5	44	51	N	N	Breaking over three thousand eggs to make an omelet	In this painstakingly researched and superbly documented analysis, twenty-three year old British researcher, Nafeez Mosaddeq Ahmed demonstrates how the United States government willingly sacrificed the lives of more than three thousand of its citizens in order to achieve its long term foreign policy goals. Using publicly available documents, including newspaper articles, interviews, individual testimonies, congressional documents, and published government regulations, Ahmed makes a compelling case that key members of the Bush administration including the President, the Vice President, the then acting Chairman of the Joint Chief of Staffs and others are guilty of either homicidal negligence, complicity to murder American civilians, or a combination of both.<br /> \\"The War on Freedom\\" is not a polemic and very little of it is theoretical. Instead, Ahmed accomplishes what the media has consistently failed to do, he examines publicly available material and shows how it collectively identifies areas where official government explanations contradict each other or simply lie. Given the difficulty of this subject matter and immense volume of source material (practically every sentence is cited, and sources number in the hundreds), the tone of this book is remarkably professional and reads like a coolly assembled scientific report. Be warned, however, that no matter what your political leanings, the evidence in this book will depress you. Some of Ahmed's arguments are as follows:<br />OPERATION ENDURING FREEDOM WAS PLANNED YEARS AGO<BR>Citing multiple documents including a congressional hearing in which leading oil executives urged members of congress to \\"stabilize\\" Afghanistan so that they could construct an oil pipeline from former Soviet republics in the Caucuses to the Caspian Sea, Ahmed demonstrates that the U.S. planned to occupy Afghanistan for years and that the invasion was to take place sometime in the fall of 2001. <br />THE US PROPPED UP THE TALIBAN <br />Again citing congressional documents, Ahmed demonstrates that the Taliban domination of Afghanistan was the direct result of American arms and logistical support. He further demonstrates that the U.S. hoped the harshly repressive Taliban would \\"stabilize\\" Afghanistan and did not count on them turning against the U.S. for ideological reasons. <br />BIN LADEN'S FAMILY OWNED 5% OF BUSH'S FIRST OIL COMPANY<BR>An individual named Bath invested the money of his Saudi friends/clients, including the brother of one of Usama Bin Laden's wives, in George W. Bush's first oil company, Arbusto. In fact, Bush Jr. and Bush Sr. have had considerable dealings with the Bin Laden family that they have gone to great lengths to conceal.<br />FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE WAS IGNORED<BR>Intelligence agencies from France, Russian, Britain, Israel, Jordan, Egypt, and others strenuously warned the Bush administration of the September 11th plot in detail. The Bush administration did not act on this information.<br />DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE WAS THWARTED AND SURPRESSED<BR>Prior to September 11th, dedicated FBI and CIA agents had not only uncovered the details of the September 11th plot but also had desperately attempted to get their superiors to act on this information. These agents were reigned in by their superiors, and in some cases they were threatened with retaliation if they went public or testified to congress about this information. After September 11th, intelligence agents were not allowed to pursue leads in Saudi Arabia or Pakistan, even though the majority of clues pointed to those locations. Instead, their superiors (mostly Bush administration appointees) ordered them to focus on Germany.<br />THE AMERICAN SUPPORTED ISI GAVE MONEY TO MOHAMED ATTA<BR>A leader of the American supported Pakistani Inter Services Intelligence Agency (ISI) personally ordered a subordinate to wire money to Mohamed Atta. He was subsequently forced into early retirement but never investigated.<br />THE TERRORISTS TRAINED ON AMERICAN AIRFORCE BASES<BR>Records indicate that several of the September 11th terrorists trained in U.S. Air Force bases as part of a longstanding program to train Saudi pilots. The Air force explained this by saying that the records merely revealed individuals with the same names as the terrorists trained received Air Force training. When pressed to verify this fact by producing even one of these individuals for an interview, the Air Force refused.<br />THE U.S. REFUSED BIN LADEN EXTRADITION OFFERS<BR>Both before and after September 11th, the U.S. refused offers, first from the Sudan and then from Bin Laden himself in Afghanistan, for Bin Laden's extradition.<br />STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES WERE NOT FOLLOWED ON 9/11<BR>The most powerful 9/11 myth to date is that the Air Force cannot intercept stray aircraft without presidential authorization. The Air Force cannot shoot down stray aircraft without presidential authorization, but they routinely intercept stray aircraft as a matter of published standard operating procedures that are documented on military Web sites and which this reviewer has read. Several sources indicate that 9/11 was not new in the sense that aircraft frequently go off course or lose radio contact with ground control and the Air Force intercepts them as a matter of routine. In the case of golf professional, Payne Stewart's aircraft, for example, it was immediately tracked, and intercepted within minutes of going off course. Astoundingly, Air Force planes were not launched until after three of the four hijacked aircraft had hit their targets and instead were grounded in an unprecedented manner.<br />THE PRESIDENT'S PERSONAL EXPLANATION IS HIGHLY CONTRADICTORY<BR>President Bush frequently changed his explanation of what he knew and when he knew it. Ahmed's sources indicate that prior to aircraft striking the first World Trade Center tower, the president had been informed that an aircraft had been hijacked and diverted toward New York City.<br />THE PRESIDENT AND OTHER'S RESPONSE WAS INEXPLICABLY SLOW<BR>Astoundingly, by his own admission, after the president learned that an aircraft had struck the first World Trade Center tower, he continued reading to school children in Florida. Similarly, the Vice President simply continued his meeting with Senator Max Cleeland, and the Chairman of the Joint Chief of Staff and his immediate Air Force subordinate did nothing. By their own published admissions, in the face of an unprecedented national emergency, the leaders who were most empowered to act simply stuck to their planned routines for that day.	2002-12-19
US	50774246	R3LETQWG03JVR5	1583225366	967029653	Media Control, Second Edition: The Spectacular Achievements of Propaganda (Open Media Series)	Books	4	15	19	N	N	Propaganda is to Democracy What Force is to Dictatorship	In \\"Media Control\\", Noam Chomsky provides a clear and penetrating analysis of how the American media represents the interests of state and corporate power by spreading disinformation among its audience including the popular myth of its own objectivity and public service. Chomsky provides a brief historical overview of how the American media has served corporate and government interests at the expense of average people and then examines how a truly objective, public minded media would cover the \\"war on terrorism\\".<br />HISTORY OF AMERICAN MEDIA CONTROL<BR>According to Chomsky, American Media control truly began with the Creel Commission that was established by President Wilson in 1916 to convert American pacifist sentiments into popular support for war with Germany. The success of the Creel Commission subsequently influenced a generation of liberal democratic theorists such as Walter Lippman who divided society into a tiny minority of specialists (the specialized class) and the less intelligent majority (the bewildered heard). Limppman argued that the majority was incapable of deciding matters for itself and consequently had to have its consent manufactured by the specialist class. The specialist class did not act on its own, but served the interest of the powerful elite, namely the large corporations. Chomksy correctly points out that this approach is largely identical to Marxist-Leninism, since both political philosophies advocate an elite minority controlling the thoughts and aspirations of the general population that is too stupid to decide what is good for itself. Consequently, except for their participation in a few ceremonial events, the American people are spectators and not participants in the democratic process.<br />DIVIDE AND STUPEFY<BR>The United States, according to Chomsky, pioneered the public relations industry whose primary function has always been to atomize the population with carefully targeted messages, advertisements, and disinformation. Atomizing the population prevents any kind of collective organization and thus renders people into spectators instead of participants in democracy.<br />PERCEPTION INSTEAD OF REALITY<BR>The media frequently distorts facts and then promotes the distorted information to the point where it becomes an accepted reality. For example, the media has frequently led the public to believe that the average number of Vietnamese civilian casualties during the Vietnam War was approximately 100,000 when it fact it was more than 2,000,000 by conservative estimates. Chomsky then asks how would we view Nazi Germany if we believed the official holocaust death toll was in the neighborhood of 300,000 instead of 14,000,000.<br />THE WAR ON TERROR IS NOT NEW<BR>Chomsky points out that the current war on terror is not new but is a re-declaration of the original one declared by Ronald Regan in 1980. The only circumstances that have changed are that terrorists have attacked Americans on U.S. soil. Other than that, the perceived enemies (anyone who stands in the way of American interests) and the leaders on the home front (members of the Regan and first Bush cabinet who are once again in power) are the same.<br />THE OFFICIAL DEFINITION OF TERRORISM IS UNUSABLE<BR>Chomsky demonstrates that the definition of terrorism in official American military and government publications is unusable by the current administration because it closely resembles actions perpetrated by the U.S. government and its allies. For this reason, both the government and the media unofficially define terrorism as any act of terror perpetrated against the U.S. and its allies. Since this generally takes the form of weaker countries or groups that cannot oppose the United States militarily, terrorism is defined as a weapon of the weak.<br />My only complaint about this book is that the language has been simplified beyond belief and at times reads like a Dr. Seuss propaganda critique. This minor flaw aside, \\"Media Control\\" is indispensable to understanding how the media is uses to distort reality and to mold public opinion.	2002-12-16
US	50774246	R3KAGYU63NTCTM	1583225498	619106332	Our Media, Not Theirs: The Democratic Struggle against Corporate Media (Open Media Series)	Books	5	76	81	N	N	Conservative and Liberals Will Agree on This One	'Our Media Not Theirs' is one of two or three books that convinced me that the gulf between conservatives and liberals in the United States is relatively small while the one between powerful corporations and the majority of American citizens is enormous. In this refreshing, intelligent, and down-to-earth book, McChesney and Nichols provide an astute analysis of increasing corporate media consolidation and its harmful impact on life and democracy in America. As this trend continues, according to McChesney and Nichols, media content is increasingly geared toward profit and provides no significant analysis or factual reporting. As a result, Americans are left with massive advertising whose requirements not only displace news content but actually begin to shape it. The news, according to McChesney, and Nichols is evolving into a massive infomercial--a trend that is deeply opposed by Americans on all ends of the political spectrum.<br />McChesney and Nichols dispel many commonly held myths of the American media including the notion that it merely 'gives the people what they want'. The authors demonstrate that media content is not determined by popular demand but by corporate and advertising requirements. Many well documented surveys, hearings, and town meetings indicate that Americans of all political stripes hunger for a real media, for one that provides objective reporting of facts, meaningful analysis, and an examination of different points of view.<br />The authors also explain the puzzling myth of the media's liberal bias. Conservative zealots such as Rush Limbaugh and Anne Cultur often accuse the media of excessive and, in their opinion, offensive liberal views, while many liberals view the media as the propaganda wing of the political and economic elite. McChesney and Nichols trace the myth of media liberal bias back to the Reagan era when any questioning of the president's character or competence was immediately labeled a liberal bias. But when it comes to the most significant stories of the past two years (The dysfunctional 2000 presidential election, government and corporate corruption resulting in the collapse of major companies such as Enron, and the causes of 9/11 and the resulting 'War on Terrorism') the media refuses to provide meaningful, fact-based, and analytical coverage of events. This is especially evident in the case of Enron and similar companies, in which the media simply categorized the phenomenon as a bad business problem and ignored its massive implications of political corruption. In the case of 9/11, the media desisted from any meaningful analysis of the facts and instead produced paean after paean for President Bush.<br />Does the media deliver any meaningful content to anyone at all? McChesney and Nichols argue that, sure, they provide round the clock business coverage for a tiny minority of bankers, traders, and corporate executives. But when it comes to operating a free press that provides a variety of coverage that is essential to any functioning democracy, the media doesn't deliver. Most media legislation such as the Telecommunications Act of 1996 is performed behind closed doors and almost always results in increasing consolidation.<br />This book would be pretty depressing if it were only a critical analysis of the corporate media, but fortunately there is more to it than that. McChesney and Nichols chronicle both the dissatisfaction that Americans of all political persuasions feel toward the media and the burgeoning movement for media reform. In asking concerned readers to get involved with media reform, the authors compare this situation with reform movements of the past to illustrate that it is difficult but by no means impossible. At the end of the book the authors produce a very practical list of required events for media reform and of things that the average person can do. They point out a significant number of existing media watchdog and reform groups and urge them to pool their efforts in the coming months. Personal involvement in media reform can, according to the authors, stem the tide of increasing corporate media consolidation, diminished reporting and analysis, and of the ever increasing intrusion of commercials and advertising in every facet of American life.<br />I highly recommend this book for anyone who wants more out of televised and printed news than massive commercials and meaningless coverage of events. Excluding the political and economic elite, I suspect that as much as conservatives and liberals disagree with each other, both would rather see their difference reported and examined by the media in a meaningful fashion instead of in a superficial, branded one. The title of this book, 'Our Media Not Theirs' in no way refers to political distinctions such as liberal and conservative. Instead, it refers to the fact that the media should reflect the needs of the majority of Americans, not its ever-shrinking handful of corporate owners. When this happens, America will truly have a free press instead of the current institution that masquerades as one.	2002-12-03
US	50774246	R2QBYNCRPUQTCF	1893224740	411398373	When You Ride Alone You Ride with Bin Laden: What the Government Should Be Telling Us to Help Fight the War on Terrorism	Books	4	196	209	N	N	Helpful, Intelligent, Entertaining, and Deeply Flawed	Although this book has its share of problems, it is a must read because it is wildly entertaining and because it raises all the right questions about what Americans can really do to win the 'War on Terrorism'. Bill Maher uses language and imagery to contrast the current 'War on Terrorism' against the backdrop of the two world wars and the Cold War and to argue that unlike the present situation, Americans actually got involved back then and did something that is inconceivable today'they made sacrifices. Maher's book is divided into a series of brief, humorous essays (no more than three pages in length) each of which is illustrated with vintage style war posters that contain messages and slogans about the 'War on Terrorism'. <br />Some of Maher's more trenchant arguments are:<br />MAKE SACRIFICES<BR>Wars are won by uniting and making sacrifices, so why not carpool as civilians did during WW II (hence the title of this book) instead of driving alone? Also, why not give up SUVs and other idiotic vanity vehicles in favor of fuel efficient ones that will reduce our dependence on Middle Eastern oil, which is one of Al Quaeda's prime sources of revenue.<br />PROTECT THE CITIZENS<BR>If the president gets a secret service, why can't we? Put real security in our airports like Israel does.<br />PERFORM INTELLIGENT SEARCHES<BR>At the risk of being offensive, search likely suspects at airports, not random people including old women and children.<br />THE 'WAR ON DRUGS' IS REALLY STUPID<BR>Why are we investing billions of dollars and lots of resources making sure cancer victims can't smoke pot when we could be directing all of that money and resources toward protecting civilians at home? Besides, it doesn't work and it simply makes more people hate us.<br />UNDERSTAND WHY WE ARE HATED<BR>People are attacking us for a reason. Try to understand what that reason is, don't just resort to comfort and clichés. <br />Maher's book also contains its share of flaws. I completely agree withMaher's criticism of politically correct ideology and agree with him that replacing common sense with sensitivity does not solve any problems. In some cases however, Maher misses the boat not because his arguments are insensitive but simply because they are ignorant. Here are a few examples:<br />THOSE ...MOSLEMS!<BR>Maher argues that there is nothing wrong with criticizing Islam since among other things it is brutally repressive toward women. What he fails to consider is that there is no monolithic Islam that doles out the same repressive behavior the world over. The Taliban, the Saudi royal family, and Bin Laden are followers of Wahhabism, a virulent, fundamentalist sect in Islam. They have been frequently criticized by high ranking Suni and Shiite clerics who, among other things, condemned their treatment of women as unislamic. To equate all of Islam with the behavior of the Taliban (as Maher does) is to ignore this fact.<br />IT'S A CLASH OF CIVILIZATIONS<BR>Maher, like Samuel Huntington, argues that we are experiencing a clash of civilizations and that the 'War on Terrorism' is a struggle between two conflicting cultures, the West and Islam. As Tariq Ali, Edward Said, and Howard Zinn aptly point out, religion does play an important ideological role in this conflict, but it is essentially a political one. Sure, the 9/11 terrorist were religiously motivated to sacrifice their lives, but their targets (the centers of finance, military planning and probably of government) were political ones. Similarly, while Bin Laden uses Islam as his rallying cry and justification, his goals are flagrantly political as evidenced by his statement that America would know security at home when the people of the Middle East knew security in Saudi Arabia, Iraq, and Palestine. <br />TAKE SADDAM OUT<BR>Maher indicates that since Saddam Hussein is developing nuclear weapons and must be stopped this is no time for sensitivity. He would probably do well to read the reports of the highlyinsensitive and highly informed Scott Ridder, which argue that Iraq was thoroughly disarmed and posses no threat. (Ridder is a marine veteran and former intelligence officer who played a leading role in disarming Iraq after the Gulf War. He is a Republican who voted for George W. Bush in 2000 and believes war with Iraq is unwarranted.) <br />The strength of this book lies not so much in the fact that it provides all of the right answers but that it asks all of the right questions. Despite its flaws this book is intelligent, wildly funny and definitely worth reading. I strongly recommend however, that you read this book intelligently and skeptically, not with total acceptance. Maher would probably be the first to agree with this suggestion.	2002-11-26
US	50774246	R2WSGVL3CONGA4	1859846793	348527795	The Clash of Fundamentalisms: Crusades, Jihads and Modernity	Books	5	15	21	N	N	An Honest, Contextual, and Unsentimental Explanation of 9/11	An unashamed secular proponent of Enlightenment ideas, Tariq Ali provides a voice of refreshing realism, intelligence, and wit that sharply contrasts the expanding chorus of religious zealots who have staked out both sides of the 9/11 issue. Ali grew up in a leftist family in Pakistan during the volatile period of Partition and its immediate aftermath. Having witnessed the grim results of religious strife in his native Lahore, Ali rejected the notion of cultural superiority and the study of Islam at an early age. In \\"Clash of Fundamentalisms\\" Ali places the events of 9/11 in sharp historical perspective. While his views may not be as comforting as the official U.S. government explanation of why 9/11 took place, they are more realistic and provide a better framework for understanding and preventing further acts of terror. <br />The first three quarters of this book provide a brief and lucid history of the Western occupation and manipulation of the Middle East in the past two hundred years, most notably by Britain and then by its successor, the United States. In his chapter on Saudi Arabia, Ali demonstrates how the West reinstalled the Faud family that continues to rule Saudi Arabia today. The Faud family are practitioners of Wahhabism, an extreme fundamentalist sect of Islam whose repressive nature is comparable to the brand of Christian fundamentalism practiced by Jerry Falwell. By reinstalling the house of Faud in Saudi Arabia Britain, and then the United States ensured that it would experience brutal repression and no possibility for development.<br />Ali characterizes Pakistan as a failed state that has passed from one military dictatorship to another and that is rife with Islamic fundamentalism largely as the result of American sponsorship during the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. Pakistan also has nuclear weapons and fundamentalist penetration of the military (and its resulting access to those weapons) is a matter of time.<br />In fact, Ali's perspective on other Middle Eastern nations could easily merit a book for each. Afghanistan was on the path to modernization and self-determination before being utterly destroyed by the United States and the Soviet Union. Far from providing Israel with enhanced security, the victory in the 1967 war committed Israel to a path of occupation, aggression, and brutality that ultimately left it more vulnerable and more hated. And, in the case of Iran, Ali warns the United States that it is squandering an opportunity and courting disaster. Most young Iranians have little or no recollection of life under the Shah but possess powerful hatred and resentment of the ruling Islamic clergy. To link these people to an imagined \\"access of evil\\" is to turn a reservoir of potential support into one of guaranteed hostility.<br />Ali brings his arguments home in the book's final chapter that is also titled \\"Clash of Fundamentalism\\". Here Ali correctly points out that there is nothing new about 9/11, since the modern West has systematically murdered civilians to achieve its aims, it is only new to the United States. While Ali in no way supports the murder of American civilians on 9/11 he states that it is obscene to argue that those lives were somehow worth more than the twenty thousand whom Putin murdered in Grozny, or the countless thousands of civilians America murdered in Vietnam. Ali introduces us to the concept of Imperial fundamentalism (America is right no matter what) and points out that the ensuing clash of fundamentalisms between American and Islamic ideologues is a retreat from the progressive ideas of the Enlightenment and an attempt to reverse the process of social development, essentially moving backward toward an ideal moment that never really existed. Ali is as unsparing in his criticism of Islamic fundamentalism and Zionism as he is of America's imperial and Christian fundamentalism. <br />Among other things, Ali puts pundits such as Francis Fukuyama (The End of History) and Samuel Huntington (Clash of Civilizations) in their place. Fukuyama's notion that history has ended because Western liberal democracy has achieved a state of permanent triumph, is according to Ali, a ridiculous concept that Fukuyama has constantly had to \\"readjust\\" in the face of mounting contradictory events. Ali correctly characterizes the Huntington thesis as an overly broad \\"us and them\\" perspective that ignores the fact that 9/11 and similar events have their roots in politics (imperial occupation and subject state resistance) not cultural, religious or civilization differences.<br />Ali challenges both Americans and their foes to avoid the comfort of cliché and simple mindedness when examining 9/11. He challenges Americans to stop viewing this event as one of inexplicable and insane victimization and to see it for what it was, a brutal counterstrike by imperial subject people against the mother country. But Ali also criticizes the immense world support of 9/11 including numerous Europeans, Asian, Latinos and Africans (some of whom live in the U.S.) who have publicly expressed pleasure in the fact that finally \\"they\\" (i.e. Americans) were being attacked instead of doing the attacking. But aside from its symbolic significance, Ali believes that 9/11 failed to accomplish what the terrorists had hoped and only strengthened American resolve as well as the standing of the American president. Similarly, he points out that bombing Afghanistan may have momentarily satisfied the American appetite for revenge but has only expanded the reservoir of hatred and hostility toward America. Sighting Chalmers Johnson's book \\"Blowback\\" Ali warns that the real consequences of the War on Terror are not detectable now but will be felt in years to come. For this reason it is critical that everyone start examining this situation realistically, not merely in terms of cliché, symbolism, and zealotry.	2002-11-14
US	50774246	R1WRL0A0QQYAP2	1859846319	415848956	The Trial of Henry Kissinger	Books	4	206	226	N	N	The War Criminal's War Criminal	In this breezy but extremely well researched little book, Christopher Hitchens convincingly argues that Henry Kissinger is a war criminal according to published American and International legal standards. Hitchens builds his case not from a moral or political point of view but from a purely legal one based on evidence that Kissinger was responsible for acts of genocide, assassination, and unlawfully interfering with government operations both in the United States and in foreign countries. Hitchens documents how Kissinger's ignominious resume spans the globe and includes the mass murder of civilians in East Timor, Pakistan, Greece, Cyprus, Chile, Argentina, Cambodia, Laos, and Vietnam. <br />In places such as Chile and Argentina, according to Hitchens, Kissinger merely supervised the assassination of democratically elected heads of state and the establishment of brutally repressive and murderous military dictatorships. His accomplishments were more significant in East Timor where, with his help, one third of the population was murdered, and in Indochina where he not only colluded in the murder of hundreds of thousands of Vietnamese but also in Cambodia and Laos where under his guidance, Nixon illegally extended the war and waged it almost purely against the civilian population. <br />Conservatives or self-styled realists might refute Hitchens by arguing that Kissinger's genocidal resume is merely the result of his practicing a brutal but necessary variant of realpolitik. But as Hitchens' gleefully points out, few Kissinger lovers including Kissinger himself are unwilling to do this for two reasons: first because they are unwilling to face the legal consequences of linking the man to his murders and second because in many cases, while Kissinger's actions personally benefited him and his patrons, they in no way helped the United States. For example, in 1968 Kissinger helped to sabotage the Johnson administration's peace plan in order ensure a Nixon presidential victoryand his own appointment as Secretary of State. Four years later he successfully brokered THE SAME PLAN only by this time, twenty thousand more American troops had been killed along with hundreds of thousands of civilians in Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos. The only people who benefited from this were Nixon and his top officials including Kissinger. <br />It is for these reasons and others, according to Hitchens, that Kissinger has gone to great lengths to cover his tracks, by censoring documents or bequeathing them to the Library of Congress under the condition that they remain sealed until his death. While Kissinger enjoys a sort of morbid celebrity status at home, he is less at ease abroad where at least once he has been legally detained to answer questions about his responsibility for the \\"disappearance\\" of foreign nationals.<br />The importance of this book lies not so much in its condemnation of Henry Kissinger, but in the lessons it holds for Americans in these troubled times. As of this writing, many Americans are asking themselves why their nation is so hated around the world, and whether its forthcoming invasion of Iraq is based on genuine national security concerns or the self interest of the ruling elite. Sometimes the answers to such questions are found not so much in the present but in the past. Henry Kissinger's career, as chronicled in this book, provides us with many hints and direct answers to some of our most troubling questions today.	2002-11-12
US	50774246	R2UOLCHBH3EP7C	1893956385	534430544	War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You To Know	Books	5	287	334	N	N	Fabricated and Dangerous Justifications for Invading Iraq	\\"War on Iraq\\" is a Republican military expert's analysis and rejection of the American government's current justification for invading Iraq. All Americans, especially politicians, should pay close attention to this book for two reasons. First, the arguments contained in this book were made by the person who knows the status of Iraq's weapons program and the potential threat posed by Iraq better than anyone else. Scott Ritter is a former intelligence officer and Marine veteran of the Gulf War. When the war ended, Ritter played a critical and highly effective role in inspecting and destroying the Iraqi weapons program. Second, Ritter is a Republican who voted for George W. Bush in the 2000 election, and who clearly harbors no liberal agenda. If this guy is telling us that the coming war with Iraq is unwarranted and extremely dangerous, we had better take him seriously. Ritter's arguments are summed up below.<br />IRAQ HAS NO SERIOUS WEAPONS CAPABLITY<BR>Ritter demonstrates that Iraq's chemical, nuclear, and biological weapons were thoroughly dismantled. Rebuilding these programs is easily detectable, and if some chemical or biological agents evaded detection, they have probably exceeded their shelf life.<br />IRAQ DOES NOT HAVE A FUNDAMENTALIST GOVERNMENT<BR>As evil and nasty as Saddam Hussein might be, he is a secular ruler who has gone to great and brutal lengths to repress religious fundamentalism in Iraq. He has no interest in perpetuating Islamic fundamentalism of the sort that Bin Laden espouses. <br />SADAM HUSSEIN AND BIN LADEN ARE ENEMIES<BR>Saddam Hussein and Osama Bin Laden are enemies. Saddam Hussein outlawed Wahabbism the fundamentalist sect of Islam to which Bin Laden belongs, and Bin Laden declared Saddam Hussein an apostate who should be killed. Even if these two were sympathetic to each other, Ritter proves that there isn't a shred of evidence of a cooperation between Iraq and Al Quaeda.<br />THIS IS EXACTLY WHAT BIN LADEN WANTS<BR>An American invasion of Iraq has an excellent chance of infuriating other Islamic nations and creating a West vs. Islam polarization. <br />MORE TERRORISM PLEASE<BR>Even if America has a speedy victory in Iraq (Ritter, a twelve year Marine veteran and former intelligence officer states that this is highly unlikely this time around), extremism and resentment against the U.S. will only increase in the Middle East. More likely, this war will generate tremendous civilian casualties in Iraq and hundreds or thousands of U.S. casualties. If, in a worse case scenario, America resorts to tactical nuclear weapons to help it's pinned down military forces-something Bush has publicly stated as a possibility. Ritter argues that if this happens he can guarantee that Iran and Pakistan will hand over nuclear devices to terrorists and we will experience a nuclear bomb detonation in America within decades.<br />DEMOCRACY IS IMPOSSIBLE IN IRAQ<BR>Iraq contains a Shiite majority, which shares powerful fundamentalist beliefs with Iran, and which the U.S. definitely does not want to come to power. The U.S. can't put the Kurdish minority in power because Turkey, which has its own issues with the Kurds, would never allow it, which just leaves the Sunni minority from whose ranks Saddam rose to power. The only realistic result, according to Ritter, is another Sunni dictator who is as repressive as Saddam.<br />IRAQIS WON'T RISE UP AGAINST SADAM<BR>Even if Iraqi civilians ignore the fact that the U.S. bombed, starved and killed many of them during the past ten years, the state apparatus that Saddam built has had more than twenty years to seep into their lives and is too well entrenched.<br />WHAT ABOUT SADDAM'S BOMB MAKER<BR>Ritter quickly proves that Saddam's alleged bomb maker Khidre Hamza is a fake who never headed Iraq's nuclear program (Jafar al Jafar did) and who did not possess adequate knowledge to develop nuclear weapons. When Hamza first defected in 1994, his intelligence was rejected by the CIA and the intelligence community at large. <br />HITLER DID IT<BR>Ritter correctly points out that while the justification for a first strike may resonate with many Americans still wounded by the memory of 9/11, it is the same excuse Hitler used for attacking Poland. The world may well see an American \\"first strike\\" in the same light.<br />HOW DO YOU SPELL \\"NEO-CONSERVATIVE\\" <BR>According to Ritter, you spell it, \\"Rumsfeld\\", \\"Wolfowitz\\", and \\"Perle\\". Donald Rumsfeld, is of course the Bush Administration's Secretary of Defense, while Paul Wolfowitz and Richard Perle are part of a conservative think tank that is convinced that Iraq is a threat to both Israel and the United States and that is ideologically committed to toppling Saddam Hussein regardless of the potential consequences. These ideologues, according to Ritter, are the key decision makers with respect to Gulf War II, The Vengeance and they have effectively terminated all government debate on the subject. Ritter, who is also a Republican, astutely argues that extremism is the most dangerous way to approach an already volatile Middle East.<br />FACTS ARE A STUBBORN THING<BR>Unlike any of his critics including the Richard Butler, the careerist who ineptly headed UNSCOM after the Gulf War, Ritter can and does document every argument he makes. Journalists have never found a single error in any of Ritter's claims and his critics are unwilling to debate him in public. Ritter's stance on this issue made him the subject of at least one intense FBI investigation in which he was cleared. Ritter sums up his approach with John Adams's famous statement that \\"facts are a stubborn thing.\\"	2002-10-22
US	50774246	R23JWOZXVHDZ28	1583224947	626486948	Silencing Political Dissent: How Post-September 11 Anti-Terrorism Measures Threaten Our Civil Liberties	Books	5	50	55	N	N	America Drifts to Fascism	In this brief and lucid book, Nancy Chang exposes how the USA Patriot Act and other post September 11th responses by the Bush regime constitute a flagrant assault on American civil liberties and constitutional rights. Chang places her findings in a sharp historical context by providing a brief survey of similar events in American history, including the jailing and detention of innocent people as far back as the immediate aftermath of the Revolutionary War. Chang concludes that while the Bush regime's purported anti-terrorist measures definitely provide it with a variety of legal pretexts to persecute American citizens and non-citizens at will, (for example, the authoring of this review could constitute a threat to public safety under several of the USA Patriot Act's broad definitions of \\"domestic terrorism\\") it does little or nothing to actually protect people living in the United States from terrorist attacks.<br />Perhaps the most disturbing part of Chang's study is its revelation that America's theocratic Attorney General, John Ashcroft has detained hundreds of Arabs and South Asians living in America for minor immigration violations. These individuals have frequently been incarcerated under highly abusive conditions and some have died in custody. Ashcroft's goal, according to Chang, is to use immigration violations as a sweeping drag net for capturing any foreign terrorists who, like many of the September 11th suicide bombers, may have violated their visa requirements. Even if one is willing to turn a blind eye to the fate of the hundreds of innocent immigrants who have already suffered under this policy, one cannot ignore its broader consequences for the American people. History has shown that in places like Stalinist Russia, Nazi Germany, and earlier situations in America, providing the government with broad, unaccountable authority generally results in global not local patterns of abuse. A government that is interested in persecuting immigrants today may go after anyone else it doesn't like tomorrow. And even if Ashcroft succeeds in rooting out all terrorists who have visa problems, this will not protect America from the likes of Timothy McVeigh. <br />Finally, Ashcroft's policy just doesn't add up when you consider Chang's stunning revelation that the Bush administration used provisions of the USA Patriot act to quash a congressional investigation into the fact that in early 2001, the INS extended the visas of two of the September 11th terrorists including the alleged ring leader, Mohamed Atta. That's right, despite the fact that these guys were on terrorist watch lists, our government provided them with the legal means to remain in this country, but George W. Bush says that in order to protect us he can't let our elected officials publicly examine how our government could make such a catastrophic error. It seems that with these new anti terrorist measures, the government isn't interested in protecting us so much as expanding its own power and eliminating any accountability. <br />My only complaint about this book is that it is written and structured like a tedious legal brief, which is understandable since Chang is a veteran litigation attorney. Despite this minor peccadillo, \\"Silencing Political Dissent\\" is an important book that should be read by all U.S. citizens and non-citizens.	2002-10-09
US	50774246	R29Z5Y6SDXJBWN	0679768122	381866424	Albert Speer: His Battle with Truth	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Superb: The Best Biography of Speer to Date	Gitta Sereny's\\"Albert Speer: His Battle with the Truth\\" is the most comprehensive biography of Hitler's architect and minister of armaments to date. Aside from Speer's own writings, which Sereny proves to be deliberately misleading in a few crucial areas, it is probably the most insightful account of Speer's life and of his involvement with the Holocaust. <br />Sereny's investigation of Speer draws upon numerous interviews she conducted with Speer himself, his friends, family, colleagues, acquaintances and scores of other individuals and authorities. Although Sereny explores many fascinating aspects of Speer's life, such as his tormented childhood, his desperate need for Hitler's approval, his perspective of the infighting among key members of Hitler's inner circle, his genius for organization, and his surprising emergence as a possible successor to Hitler, the central focus of her investigation is Speer's knowledge of the Holocaust. <br />Sereny provides overwhelming evidence that within months of Speer's becoming Hitler's minister of armaments it was impossible for him not to have been aware of Nazi genocidal policies including the murder of millions of Jews. Sereny concludes that during his years of service to Hitler, Speer did not \\"officially\\" know about the Holocaust, though in reality it was impossible for him not to have known. Speer managed to translate his official ignorance to a claim of actual innocence at Nuremburg, which saved his life.<br />Meticulously researched and superbly written, Sereny's book is enjoyable as an historical analysis, a biography, a psychological study, and as an ethical investigation.	2002-09-13
US	50774246	R351BUOWWKQ7JN	037550477X	280343045	The Coming Collapse of China	Books	2	25	31	N	N	Interesting Argument but Flawed, Biased, and Poorly Written	Gordon Chang argues that the world should reexamine its perception of China's impending economic and political greatness in terms of its serious internal problems. The heart of these problems, according to Chang, is the potential disaster that China faces with its state-owned enterprises (SOEs). A legacy of the Maoist era, the SOEs are unproductive and operate at a loss, but disbanding even a small number of them has already produced a population of unemployed Chinese that numbers in the millions. Consequently China has kept many SOEs in business and has prevented them from becoming insolvent by ordering the state owned banks to bail them out. As a result, Chang warns, the state owned banks will, themselves, soon become insolvent, which will plunge China into a massive fiscal crisis and destroy its veneer of strength and stability. Chang discusses other problems such as regional strife in provinces such as Tibet, and Tianjing, the corruption of the Communist party, the stranglehold of the government bureaucracy and more, but the problem with the SOEs is the core component of his doomsday warning for China.<br />The problem Chang examines is serious and his argument would be more compelling if it were properly balanced. Unfortunately, Chang is heavily biased and instead opts for redundant insults and a restatement of the same theme in chapter after chapter. Some of Chang's information is clearly out of date (I would love to know what happened to the value of the Internet IPO he keeps raving about), and he fails to consider that problems such as cronyism and corruption are not unique to China alone. (Consider the 2000 U.S. presidential election, the marriage of Haliburton, Harkin, Enron, and Bush, Worldcom, Tyco, etc.)<br />Perhaps the worse part of the book is its appalling writing style. Chang writes in a conversational ... manner that is full of jokes, quips, remarks, and clichés that are probably personally amusing to him but that add no value to his book. Bad writing makes even good arguments unconvincing and I had to struggle through Chang's ... writing to believe the parts of his argument that made sense. <br />If you can stomach the style of this book, then I recommend reading it not because it provides correct answers but because in a couple of places it raises interesting questions. ....	2002-09-11
US	50774246	R1X1JOT8SFXYRR	0393316734	129219535	Commodify Your Dissent: Salvos from the Baffler	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Insiteful and funny	This collection of essays provides a gutsy, incisive, and energetic critique of American consumer culture that surpasses and even ridicules the limp, flaccid, self-referential verbiage that academics try to pass off as a \\"radical\\", and \\"critical\\" examination of culture and power. \\"Commodify Your Dissent\\" is a series of critical essays, or \\"salvos\\" as the authors prefer to call them, that were printed in The Baffler during the 90's largely in response to the hypocrisy, and gluttony of the America's expanding techno-consumer culture. Using lucid, forthright language, direct examples, and actual critical thinking (not the mental self-gratification generated by tenured radicals) the authors demonstrate how corporate America has commercialized the concept of revolution and employed it along marketing and production guidelines that are-guess what-conformist and conservative. In the 90's culture, as these essays so aptly demonstrate, \\"free thinking, revolution\\" and \\"breaking the rules\\" really amounted to a double-speak ideology centered around buying more gadgets and helping companies to make more money, a process that was reinforced in words and letters by such \\"radical\\" cultural critics as Camille Paglia.<br />This book is bound to anger a lot of readers because, it's gutsy, direct, and ruthless in its battering of the misused tropes and recycled clichés that enable legions of consumers, workers, and managers to feel like they're breaking the rules when in fact they are merely conforming to and reinforcing them. I know it's a hard fact to face, but buying a recycled pair of bell-bottoms is not an act of rebellion.	2002-07-19
US	50774246	R2X2NPC7K8NS70	0393323536	854010686	Before and After: Stories from New York (Vol. 1)  (Mr. Beller's Neighborhood)	Books	3	11	12	N	N	Extremely Instructive	\\"New York Before and After\\" is an excellent reflection of American responses to the September 11th attacks in both the public and the private sphere. <br />From a public perspective, this book is one of many examples of the rampant opportunism that followed the attacks. Most of the post-9/11 opportunism was political and included legislation that provided yet more tax cuts for the wealthy, and a catastrophically expensive missile defense program that has never worked. It was also apparent, in the culture industry, as evidenced by the eruption of countless obnoxious benefits, and the verbiage of irrelevant news personalities who had suddenly come to believe that their bland polemics meant something.<br />From a private perspective, this book beautifully exemplifies the rapid retreat that most of us made from any sustained analysis of what made 9/11 possible. For about 48 hours after the attacks, we Americans appeared to have woken up from the slumber of mass consumption and entitlement, and actually begun to take a good hard look at how the rest of the world viewed us and how are government actually works. But old habits die hard, and in the case of 9/11 they arose from the grave in a matter of days.<br />\\"New York Before and After\\" is a marvelous confluence of both these phenomena. Firstly, some writers made up for in ambition what they lacked in talent and used 9/11 to pump stories from their Web site into publication. A few of these stories are good and most of them are not. Without the collapse of the World Trade Center, it is doubtful they would have been published. Secondly, these writers both performed and perpetuated the collective national sin of focusing on the drama while avoiding any meaningful examination of events. Some of the writers in this collection are smart enough and talented enough to have produced a meaningful and relevant examination of events, but of course that was not the purpose of this book. Publication and the perpetuation of collectiveself-pity were both its purpose and result.	2002-06-10
US	50774246	R3JN6XXAIGYKAI	0060004533	650082412	The Neal Pollack Anthology of American Literature: The Collected Writings of Neal Pollack	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Egotistical White Male Writers Will Never Be the Same!	Neal Pollack has written a splendid, hilarious, and badly needed parody of self-centered white male authors. His targets range from credible authors such as Gore Vidal and Hemmingway, to more minute members of the species such as Sebastian Junger. And while Pollack may not be aware of it, he has splendidly managed to ridicule the hubris, egotism, and total lack of talent of more obscure \\"all about me\\" writers such as Thomas Beller.<br />Many critics have argued that Pollack's joke was too narrow to warrant the number of pages contained in this modest sized volume. While it is true that some of the parodies are not as funny as others, the book remains, diverse, interesting, and consistently funny. In \\"The Albania of My Existence\\", Pollack (clearly imitating Sebastian Junger) discusses what war torn Albania means to his identity and his accomplishments. In \\"I Am Friends with a Working Class Black Woman\\" he mirrors countless White guys who believe they are cool enough to understand and to be accepted by poor black people. In \\"It is Easy to Take a Love in Cuba\\", Pollack... well, you get the idea. This book is hilarious. It strips egotistical, White male authors and puts them on display. There is no reason why we can't enjoy the writing of some of those authors and also enjoy the skillful manner in which Pollack roasts them.	2002-04-19
US	50774246	R38UXP6ZYQOGM8	1583224890	746847725	9-11	Books	5	44	60	N	N	Very Important but also Biased and Limited	Noam Chomsky's \\"9-11\\" has many limitations but is also a very important read. The attacks on September 11th were probably too important to generalize about from either a left wing point of view (big bad America is getting the punishment it deserves) or a right wing one (those evil freaks are just jealous of our money, fast food, and Disney Land). With this in mind, I highly recommend reading \\"9-11\\" but be aware of its limitations. After all, this is a slim volume of email correspondence that took place between the author and foreign journalists before a lot of substantial information about September 11th (such as the identity of the terrorists) had become public knowledge. <br />The most compelling part of \\"9-11\\" is how effectively it dispels the notion that the terrorists are blindly lashing out at globalization. Chomsky points out that Osama Bin Laden is hardly aware of globalization and has more concrete goals that include ridding Saudi Arabia of American troops and creating a \\"truly Islamic\\" government in that country. Chomsky also points out what is now probably common knowledge, namely that Bin Laden and his followers were trained and supported by the CIA to fight the Soviet troops in Afghanistan. America's \\"new\\" war on terror, according to Chomsky is hardly new at all. Since the end of World War II American political lexicon has frequently labeled America's adversaries as terrorists whether they resisted American backed dictatorships (South Vietnam, Central America), or rebelled against American control (Panama, Grenada, Iraq). Finally, Chomsky reminds us that the beneficiaries of terrorism are the most violent and corrupt people on either side of the equation whether it is Bin Laden and his followers or radical conservatives and the Defense Industry.<br />Chomsky certainly has an agenda and one should keep this in mind when reading his book. His language tends to be terse, impatient and at times even arrogant which probably does not do much to strengthen hiscase. Never-the-less, we are all obliged to research and understand what was behind the attacks of September 11th, and more than ever we should be objective about the information we encounter. Before you doubt the veracity of this book, check the information against other sources such as Mamoun Fandi's \\"Saudi Arabia and the Politics of Descent\\". Contrast Chomsky's point of view with Karen Amstrong's insights about Islamic fundamentalism (\\"The Battle for God\\") or Samuel Huntington's argument that the world is fragmenting along age old civilization boundaries (\\"The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of World Order\\". Don't just take the American president and the press at their word. Research for yourself and come to your own conclusions.	2002-04-17
US	50774246	R2TY63APOE31EE	0060392452	194848581	Stupid White Men ...And Other Sorry Excuses for the State of the Nation!	Books	5	19	32	N	N	As funny as it is important	History will remember Michael Moore as one of the great political satirists of his age. In this amusing and highly intelligent book, Moore provides a detailed examination and a thorough roasting of the dirty little secrets about American politics and culture that most of us have known about for years but have preferred to ignore. The largest and most obvious of these truths is that, contrary to current mythology, white men have historically proven to be the most violent and destructive people on the planet. Moore's targets also include the penal system, the judicial system, SUV owners, the Clinton/Gore record and the fact that the current American president holds office because his people illegally rigged an election. <br />People may not like what Moore has to say, but few can argue that he is impartial. Using meticulously researched facts and media items, Moore reveals that Bill Clinton was one of the most \\"Republican\\" presidents America ever had, that America's two political parties are essentially financed and controlled by the same corporate entities, and that George W. Bush's terrible environmental record is actually an extension of Bill Clinton's terrible environmental record. Moore frequently discusses the powerful hold that Enron and its former CEO, Kenneth Lay have on George W. Bush, which is remarkable since this book was written BEFORE the fall of Enron. He also provides irrefutable evidence that the Bush family and its political allies deliberately rigged the 2000 presidential race in Florida to ensure Dubya's victory.<br />One of the most refreshing things about this book is that it is more than just a damning indictment of all things wrong with America. Moore continuously points out that we CAN do something about these problems and shows us how. He points out how easy it is to run for office at the local level (he did it and won when he was sixteen), to contact members of the house and senate, and to break away from traditional voting patterns. <br />I was dismayed to learn that publishers and book stores are shying away from this book because George W. Bush just happened to be president during a major terrorist incident in September, 2001. But I picked up hope a few weeks ago when an elderly Chinese man asked me if I had heard of this book and then told me that he had just read about it in a Chinese newspaper. Apparently, the world wants to hear what Michael Moore has to say, and restricting the publication or sale of his book will not prevent that.	2002-04-16
US	50774246	RGFMTSJ0W0GZW	0520219554	285029664	Secrets: The CIA's War at Home	Books	5	20	22	N	N	The saddest part is why they did it	\\"Secrets: The CIA's War at Home\\" might strike a lot of people as whacked out conspiracy theory or anti-government propaganda but it is neither of those things. Using his own well-documented historical and journalistic research, Angus McKenzie demonstrates that for decades the CIA, FBI, DOD (Department of Defense) and other American intelligence organizations targeted American citizens for espionage, harassment, and slander in a manner that eroded their First Amendment rights but had practically nothing to do with national security. <br />American intelligence organizations frequently spied on and subverted their own people to prevent political opposition to the Vietnam War, to conceal illegal activities such as the Iran/Contra scandal, or simply to hide corruption and bureaucratic waste from the legislative branch of government and the American people. In one appalling example, a government appointed efficiency expert was not allowed to report wasteful Pentagon expenditures to his supervisors in congress because this information was considered classified.  American intelligence agencies in fact retain the power to determine that any information is classified and they can use this mandate to fire or prosecute employees even for reporting trivial facts to the public such as the contents of a White House menu. Sadly enough America's intelligence agencies could not have made such a drastic legal and illegal assault on the First Amendment without the cooperation of the ACLU (American Civil Liberties Union), the media, and the legislative branch of government, all of whom were either duped or cowed into acquiescence.<br />The most frightening part of this book is its revelation that when American intelligence agencies ran out of excuses to justify their anti-First Amendment activities they raised the specter of terrorism. One can only imagine the further corruption, illegal activity, and constitutional abuses that American intelligence agencies will perpetuation against their own people now that terrorism is a legitimate threat. If history repeats it self, then these abuses will stem from the need to conceal corruption and criminal activity but will have little to do with combating terrorism.	2002-01-14
US	50774246	R2QVRZ2TKSMAGN	0684844419	9851575	The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of World Order	Books	4	33	38	N	N	Brilliant and timely but also full of limitations	\\"The Clash of Civilizations and Remaking of World Order\\" is Professor Samuel Huntington's seminal study of modern civilization development and the emerging framework of post-Cold-War politics. Huntington argues that the world is no longer defining itself according to forces such as capitalism and imperialism or ideologies such as Democracy and Communism but instead according to the various cultural components that constitute unique civilizations. According to Huntington people are increasingly identifying themselves and their allies by civilization-based traits that include language, religion, and social customs, and as they do so they are coming into conflict with other newly defined civilizations.<br />Huntington divides the world according to unique civilizations that include The West, Sinic, Japanese, Orthodox, Moslem, Buddhist, Hindu, Latin, and African. To his credit, Huntington acknowledges that these groupings are based on broad qualifications, that are highly theoretical and that in some cases simply might be wrong. In fact rather that formulating a grand theory and rigidly defending it, Huntington enjoys exploring the weaknesses of his argument and considering alternative points of view. For example, Huntington concedes that his formulation of African civilization may be incorrect and he admits that civilizations are constantly changing entities depending on cultural developments, external influences, or trans-civilization alliances.<br />Huntington's framework is probably useful for understanding broad regional developments such as the decline of the West and the increasing influences and self-determination of Asian and Moslem civilizations. It is important to consider that these developments occur over a broad period of time that often exceeds our historical memory. For example, Huntington charts the decline of Western power from roughly 1920 until the present according to broad categories such as population and territorial reduction. Thus while the Westis arguably the most powerful civilization today, in a broader sense it is also in a state of decline.<br />Perhaps the most problematic part of Huntington's argument is the flimsy distinction he makes among some civilizations. For example, while one can perceive clear differences between Western, Orthodox, Latin, Hindu, and Moslem civilizations, the distinction between Sinic, Buddhist, and Japanese civilizations is not so clear. Sinic civilization, according to Huntington, is Confucian and largely influenced by Chinese culture. Buddhist civilization encompasses people who not only practice Buddhism as a religion but who also accept it as a major part of the state apparatus.  While appearing to be part of Sinic civilization, Japan contains its own distinctive civilization because it set the trend for abandoning Asian values in favor of Western ones and then reversed itself. The difference between Buddhist and Sinic civilizations appears to be more political than cultural (and therefore civilization-based). Buddhism is practiced in most of Sinic civilization and Confucianism is a way of life in practically all of the cultures that encompass Buddhist civilization. If Japan is distinctive because of its alternation between Asian and Western values then what about the Philippines, which is largely Catholic and has few ties to Chinese culture? <br />If anything regional cultural differences probably play a more powerful role in Asia than common civilization traits. Vietnam prides itself on centuries of successful resistance to Chinese domination. Korea struggles to show how its culture is distinctive from China and Japan. Confucianism is certainly a powerful cultural force in this region, but it is a transparent one and except perhaps in Korea or Singapore it is hardly an overt ideology. While stronger Moslem nations such as Iran and Turkey increasingly go to the aid of weaker ones such as Bosnia and Chechnya no Confucian nation is likely to go to the aid of another oneon religious grounds.<br />Huntington's book is a powerful and very useful one if it is read properly. One should probably read this book in the same way that one might examine the views of Marx and Freud. Huntington provides an important perspective that is correct in many ways and inaccurate in many others as he would probably be the first to admit.	2002-01-04
US	50774246	R2ZNYPSXXDG3UT	1573221112	457800928	The Art of Happiness: A Handbook for Living	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Insiteful, practical, non-prosletizing advice on happiness	\\"The Art of Happiness\\" is a treatise on the seemingly simple process of living a happy life that is based on numerous interviews that co-author, Dr. Howard Cutler (a psychologist), conducted with the Dalai Lama. Responding to a series of question posed by Dr. Cutler the Dalai Lama offers practical advice on how to understand the elusive nature of happiness and on how to obtain it. <br />The Dalai Lama's advice is simple but hardly rigid or superficial like most self-help programs. And while the Dalai Lama's insite is largely based on his understanding of the Buddhist tradition, it is hardly religious in nature. For example, when the Dalai Lama proposes a method for coping with with one's enemies or daily misfortunes he explains how the solution might work for a Buddhist, a Christian, or a rational secularist. His goal, it seems it not to prosletize people (indeed, Buddhism is hardly a prosletizing religion) but to provide a solution that is universally applicable to most belief systems. On many occassions Dr. Cutler challenges the Dalai Lama's approach and finds him all to willing to make a critical examination of his own beliefs. <br />While this book provides an abundance of useful advice, a few of the Dalai Lama's points particularly resonated with me. For example, the Dalai Lama suggests that we should dedicate ourselves to our own happiness with the same enthusiasm as building a family or with the same ambition as advancing our career. He is quick to point out that unlike the mere pursuit of pleasure, happiness is hardly a selfish quest. When we are happy we tend to have a more saluatary effect on others. When we are miserable we easily make others miserable. <br />More than anything else, the Dalai Lama urges us to approach life with a supple mind. For example, when we focus on how much someone has wronged us, we tend to be too rigid and we miss the complete picture. The chances are that that person has some redeeming qualities and that something in our own personality helped contribute to the situation. Similarly, the Dalai Lama suggests that we look at misfortune as more than just misfortune. When bad things happen to us, they also provide us with some form of opportunity. For example, while he is saddened by loss of his country and by the suffering of his people, the Dalai Lama also rejoices in the fact that life in exile allows him to shed protocal and communicate with people from all over the world.  <br />I know that a lot of people found Dr. Cutler's narrative an intrusive part of this book. While Dr. Cutler is something of a bumbler who gets carried away with his descriptions of the sunset, I found his contribution to this book appropriate and helpful. Through several personal examples, Dr. Cutler points out that appreciating the Dalai Lama's advice is simple enough but actually applying it to one's life is a bit more challenging.	2001-12-28
US	50774246	R349NNAYYAOU9R	0805068848	593111837	A Peace to End All Peace: The Fall of the Ottoman Empire and the Creation of the Modern Middle East	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Informative but conains more recounting than analysis	\\"A Peace to End All Peace\\" is David Fromkin's detailed account of political and military events from the turn of the century to 1922 that ultimately created the modern Middle East. While I enjoyed Fromkin's admirable recounting of key players and events, I was disappointed by the book's narrow focus and surprising lack of analysis. A superb historian in many ways, Fromkin evidently believed that the details of this colorful period and location would largely explain themselves. As a result, the reader is left with a wealth of interesting facts about this period in Middle Eastern history, but little analysis.<BR>For this kind of perspective, one is probably better off reading books such as Karen Armstrong's \\"The Battle for God\\". <br />Despite such shortcomings, \\"A Peace to End All Peace\\" remains a superb read. Fromkin provides a lucid and colorful portrait of the priniciple players including Churchill, Enver, Attaturk, and others. I was especially fascinated with Fromkin's sympathetic portrait of Turkey's surprising military success throughout most of the First World War. Under provisioned, and technologically behind, Turkey may have set the first modern example of an underdeveloped Eastern nation using politics, ingenuity, and brilliant tactics to fend off a more powerful Western enemy.	2001-12-11
US	50774246	R2OCRTVIY2I3G9	0345391691	920269539	The Battle for God	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Brilliant, timely analysis of religious extremism	Karen Armstrong has written a timely, intelligent, and highly pursuasive analysis of fundamentalism in the three great monotheistic religions, Islam, Judaism, and Christianity. Armstrong argues that while religious fundamentalism reaches back to an idealized past, it is very much a product of the modern world. Religious fundamentalism is both an attempt to update religious practices to suit the requirments of modern civilization and an attempt to preserve the \\"fundamentals\\" of religion that appear to be threatened with extinction.<br />Jewish fundamentalim, according to Armstrong developed in response to continuous persecution and exile beginning with the Christian conquest and consolidation of the Iberian Peninsula. Christian fundamentalim took hold on the American frontier in response to oppressive taxation and other issues that settlers experienced from the privileged classes in the coastal cities whose ideas were more in tune with the Enlightenment. Islamic fundamentalism sprang up in response to the many complicated results of European colonialism in the Moslem world.<br />One of the most important ideas in this book is the concept that modernization is not all things to all people. Modernization is a process that took approximately three hundred years to complete in Western Europe and the United States with many beneficial results. But to the people of Egypt and other parts of the Middle East, modernization came as an invasive process that was exploitive and cynical to the point where they felt alienated in their own communities. To priviledged citizens of the developed world today, religious fundamentalists seem absurd in their rejection of material wealth and technological inovation, when in fact they have rarely enjoyed those things to begin with. While in the Middle East and other developing regions, modernization has uprooted people and thrust both a new infrastructure and set of concepts upon them, it has rarely accorded them the material benefits enjoyed by the West.<br />Armstrong raises the equally compelling concept that the progressive tenets of modernization are as absurd to religious fundamentalists as their beliefs are to rational secularists. Where rational secularists look toward a future of continuous improvement, religious fundamentalists look to an idealized past in which their beliefs were practiced appropriately.<br />This book and others like it are indispensible to our understanding of the conflicts facing civiliaztion today. Armstrong's central thesis, that religious fundamentalism thrives in response to the violent and exploitive results of modernization, does more to expain domestic and foreign terrorist attacks than simply labeling their perpetraitors as \\"evil\\", \\"jealous\\", or \\"crazy\\".	2001-11-29
US	50774246	R3OWCU6X4T7SGS	0805062394	379226291	Blowback: The Costs and Consequences of American Empire (American Empire Project)	Books	5	68	73	N	N	Realistic: Why countries hate us, what we need to change	\\"Blowback\\" is an important and timely critique of America's over-extended and obsolete empire not from a moral perspective but from practical considerations of the nation's future well being. The term \\"blowback\\" is derived from a CIA reference to American foreign policy decisions that generate unforeseeable, negative consequences. For example, following the Gulf War in 1991, the United States stationed more than 35,000 soldiers in Saudi Arabia to deter any further hostility from Iraq. An unexpected consequence of this decision was the sudden fomenting of intense hatred toward America on the part of radical Islamic fundamentalists including Osama Bin Laden.<br />Johnson argues that while most great powers exploit their empires, America, is actually exploited by its own. During the Cold War the United States justifiably sought to create a buffer of Pacific satellite nations to cope with the threat of Soviet expansion in Asia. While this may have been an effective deterrent, it also came with a price. According to Johnson, the United States effectively bribed Japan with favorable economic conditions that fueled phenomenal growth in that country while largely destroying the manufacturing base in America. Although this may have been a prudent strategy during the Cold War, Johnson asks why the United States continues to sacrifice its productivity and living conditions at home in order to maintain a troop presence in Asia.<br />Where American troops were once stationed abroad as a buffer against Soviet expansion, they are now used to influence the countries they occupy or to train governments in counter insurgency and political repression. Johnson points out that in several cases American intervention on behalf of a repressive government merely turned American protectorates into implacable enemies. Johnson sites Vietnam and Iran as two examples of this failed strategy, and he warns of impending identical results in Indonesia and Saudi Arabia. The tragedy of America's misguided foreign policy, according to Johnson is that while it drains enormous resources from America, it fails to provide the nation with beneficial results. <br />Instead of continuing its obsolete Cold War strategy, Johnson calls on the United States to reevaluate its strategic requirements and to formulate a new foreign policy. An honest evaluation of American objectives according to Johnson would probably result in the recall of most American troops stationed abroad. Johnson foresees enormous resistance to such change from the military, which is the chief beneficiary of America's global military deployment. Johnson also argues that America is much better off accepting and working with China's inevitable economic surge and its increasing political status than attempting to contain the inevitable. <br />To anyone who is wondering why citizens of many foreign countries hate the United States, this book is a must read. In case after case, Johnson demonstrates the negative impact of American military bases on local communities such as Okinawa and parts of the Philippines where, rape, crime, noise, disease, and environmental contamination are routine byproducts of American military presence. Add to this American complicity in atrocities such as the Kwangju massacre (South Korea 1980) or the inept reorganization of foreign economies by American controlled institutions such as the IMF and the World Bank and foreign hostility toward the United States ceases to be a mystery. Written prior to the terrorist attacks of September 11th, this book accurately predicts increasing blowback against the United States both at home and abroad in response to its late 20th Century foreign policy. The American challenge in the 21st Century according to Johnson involves dismantling the American empire and coping with blowback.<br />This book is also a must read for self-styled Machiavellians, or believers in Real Politic. Johnson effectively argues that blowback is not a unique American phenomenon but is the product of expansionist nations in general. To this day, for example, Japan must tread carefully in its political dealings with nations such as South Korea and China that retain bitter memories of Japanese conduct prior to the end of the Second World War. To argue that American imperialism in its current form is realistic and necessary is to ignore historical examples that demonstrate the failure of empires that displayed similar arrogance, aggression, and a distinct inability to comprehend the perspective of their protectorates.	2001-11-16
US	50774246	R1GX2A5XRCVVZ6	0679413278	198612908	A Hero of Our Time (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	7	11	N	N	A great adventure story and an illumination of its times	\\"A Hero of Our Time\\" can be read and enjoyed as a novel that illuminates a specific period of Russian history, or simply as an adventure story. Pechorin, the \\"hero\\" of the novel is a young cavalry officer who shuns conventions such as love, marriage, and military rank in favor freedom, mobility, and scrupulous honesty. The novel takes us through Pechorin's adventures in various Russian military outposts and concludes with a reference to his ultimate demise as the result of a duel. Each chapter is so distinctive that some critics have speculated that Lermantov merely assembled different short stories instead of developing successive chapters in a novel. In most chapters for example, Pechorin manages to gain the upper hand, but in the chapter concerning the blind boy, he is almost drowned by a young woman and barely escapes with his life.<br />The longest and most important chapter in the novel is the one that concerns Pechorin's relationship with Princess Legovskoi. In this chapter, Pechorin is stationed in the Caucuses with his comrade, Gruzhinsky who expresses many of the same values as Pechorin. But when it comes to boldness, courage, and defiance, Gruzhinsky is the imitation while Pechorin is the real thing. For example, prior to his promotion, Gruzhinsky wears a common soldier's coat and claims that he is indifferent to military status. The moment he is promoted, however, Gruzhinsky sheds the soldier's coat in favor or his new officer's epaulets. Pechorin, meanwhile dresses like a Cossack and spends his days hunting.<br />Gruzhinsky falls in love with Princess Logovskoi who returns his feelings and expresses disgust toward Pechorin whom she finds rude and abrasive. But when the princess realizes that Gruzhinsky is a phony she quickly falls in love with Pechorin. Although Pechorin shares the princess's feeling to an extent, he cannot endure a relationship with anyone for very long. Pechorin breaks off relations with the princess in a humiliating fashion and is subsequently challenged to a dual by Gruzhinsky. Ever the phony, Gruzhinsky attempts to fix the dual by ensuring that Pechorin's gun is unloaded but Pechorin foils his plot and survives. It is clear to the reader, however, that while Pechorin may have survived this situation his continuing adventures ultimately lead him to a violent death.<br />One can read and appreciate this book as a simple adventure story since Pechorin is stationed in many exotic locations where he experiences romance and danger. It is probably more interesting to consider what kind of character Pechorin is and what he tells us of his times. Pechorin is clearly repelled by society and cannot even stomach relations with another human being for a significant period of time. The critic Dobrolubov was probably correct in arguing that Pechorin's behavior mainly resulted from the fact that he was alienated from Russian society, which had nothing to offer him. The organized, and mechanized society that was emerging in Russia and other parts of the world in the late 19th Century was no place for true individuals. Ironically, while Gruzhinsky is the defeated villain in this novel, it is ultimately his kind of personality and not Pechorin's that is best able to survive in this increasingly functional society. While Pechorin is the precursor to Merseault and other anti-heroes of 20th Century literature, Gruzhinsky is essentially the precursor to the rest of us. Gruzhinsky literally wears the clothes of defiance while participating in the routine order of society. Today, we have taken Gruzhinsky's attitude further by commercializing our defiant fantasies without really defying anything at all.	2001-11-15
US	50774246	R20DAQ310FV53Q	0140131558	71854538	The New York Trilogy: City of Glass; Ghosts; The Locked Room  (Contemporary American Fiction Series)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Intelligent and inventive	\\"New York Trilogy\\" is intelligent, interesting, and inventive, albeit problematic in some ways. The trilogy contains three novellas that largely stand on their own, but also bear some relationship to each other. The novellas could be considered reinvented or perhaps dysfunctional detective stories of sorts. While each involves a mystery, they lack the action and denouement of traditional detective stories. Instead, the mystery behind each story is something of an intellectual conundrum that engages the reader with the act of authorship. Who and what is the writer? What are the writer's motives? What happens when the writer attempts to solve a mystery (as in \\"City of Glass\\")? What happens when the writer is the source of a mystery (as in \\"The Locked Room\\")? The novellas are largely metaphorical (the writer as a detective, the writer's brain as a locked room, the writer as more than one person) and are rewarding on a symbolic level. Unfortunately, Aster is a skilled enough detective writer to lead us down a non-existent path of genuine mystery. \\"The Locked Room\\" contains enough tension and ingredients to make us believe we are reading a real detective story. The largely intellectual conclusion comes as something of an anti-climax and almost makes me wonder if the story ran wild in Auster's head to the point where he could not think of a suitable way to finish it. Issues like this and the stiffness of the language bothered me to some degree but did not diminish my appreciation of Auster's work. This is certainly one of the more inventive books I've encountered and I enjoyed it tremendously. Whether or not it is Post-Modern or can be attributed any other academic trope is of course irrelevant.	2001-11-02
US	50774246	R1IA4OWP4QYLLG	4062099810	86081732	Tariki: Embracing Despair, Discovering Peace	Books	5	31	33	N	N	A blend of faith and existential courage	Hiroyuki Itsuki provides a lucid and powerful explanation of Pure Land Buddhism in the Japanese tradition and supplements it with the lessons derived from his own suffering. Mr. Hiroyuki is to be commended not only for providing a spiritual essay with universal implications but also for drawing upon his own difficult experiences in a relevant, helpful manner that deftly avoids sentimentalism and self-pity.<br />Hiroyuki describes his childhood as the son of a Japanese teacher in occupied Korea before and during World War II. When Japan was defeated, Hiroyuki's world fell apart. After losing their home and belongings, Hiroyuki's mother died, his father became an alcoholic. Ultimately it was the then thirteen year-old Hiroyuki who cared for his siblings and dragged them to safety in South Korea. The trauma of these experiences and others caused Hiroyuki to develop a very negative view of life. The significance of this development, which was clearly missed by one reviewer, is the fact that Hiroyuki's negativity is not nihilistic. Instead, Hiroyuki argues that when we accept the negative facts of life (primarily that we will experience loss, pain, sickness, old-age, and death) we are better able to lead a positive life. Hiroyuki goes on to describe the Buddha as \\"the ultimate negative thinker\\" and explains how the Buddha gave up His life of wealth and privilege in order to comprehend and then address the suffering that comes with existence. <br />In explaining the differences between Zen and Pure Land Buddhism, Hiroyuki addresses the common misconception that the latter is based on blind faith. Zen, according to Hiroyuki is a religion of action that involves meditation and other exercises while Pure Land Buddhism simply requires a simple belief in and verbal acknowledgement of the Amida Buddha. This belief is not an attempt to find the Amida Buddha, for according to Hiroyuki He has already found you and has reached out to you with countless subtle mechanism that can include the kindness of complete strangers and the pages of Hiroyuki's book. Hiroyuki refers to these countless mechanisms as the \\"Other Power\\" and contrasts them with the \\"Self Power\\" associated with Zen. According to Hiroyuki, the practice of Zen involved time and activity to perform self-development that was simply not available to anyone beyond Japan's privileged classes. Pure Land Buddhism appealed to the commoners because it did not require developing the \\"Self Power\\" of Zen. Instead they merely had to believe in and acknowledge the \\"Other Power\\" of the Amida Buddha's commitment to save them. More to the point, the Amida Buddha already had saved people; they simply needed to wake up to this fact.<br />If Hiroyuki's writing only focused exclusively on the suffering and despair of his personal history then readers could justifiably find his negativity appalling. But Hiroyuki contrasts these experiences with the surprising kindness of strangers and other positive experiences that he eventually came to attribute to the \\"Other Power\\". <br />Ultimately, \\"Self Power\\" and \\"Other Power\\" are parts of the same thing. \\"Other Power\\" is faith, and it is also a required foundation for \\"Self Power\\". Hiroyuki convincingly argues that you cannot practice any form of self-development without a faith to precede it. Hiroyuki draws a parallel between the two schools of Zen Buddhism and the differences between Catholicism, which stresses salvation though one's works and Protestantism, which bases salvation upon faith alone. Hiroyuki concludes that the relationship between faith and action are universal to practically all of the world's religions and cites a recent accord between the Vatican and Lutheran council that acknowledges the primacy of belief in Christ and the importance of supplemental good works in His name.<br />So why do we need negative thinking to have a positive life? Hiroyuki argues that if we are driven by optimism alone then we are fooling our selves and are only going to suffer in the long run. When we acknowledge the normalcy of suffering, we are better able to cope with it. We are also more likely to appreciate and less likely to be fooled by the cycles of our own happiness. For me the most interesting part of this Hiroyuki's thinking is that fact that it is an equal blend of faith in human salvation and deep existential courage. Hiroyuki also gets right to the spiritual heart of religion rather than its alienating social and political elements.	2001-10-22
US	50774246	R280PVHIV0M91G	0684856476	219231016	The Rum Diary: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Succeeds where many others have failed	&quot;The Rum Diary&quot; is a young man's story written by Hunter S. Thompson well before he became a cultural icon. Based on his own experiences living in San Juan in the 1950s, &quot;The Rum Diary&quot; is the story of several bizarre and often rundown expatriates many of whom are associated with a derelict local newspaper. The story is told by thirty year-old Paul Kemp, who despite his inveterate drinking, carousing, and propensity for violence, appears to be the most sane and lucid member of his circle. Kemp's travels take him from the struggling newspaper and a ramshackle tavern to evening romps on the beach, a brief stint in jail, a hilarious court proceeding, the insanity of Carnival, and ultimately to a moral showdown resulting from sexual betrayal.<br />These events and this story line could easily degenerate into tedious, schoolboy bravado, but the young Thompson tells a fascinating, action-packed story with remarkably mature prose. Some authors such as Tom Beller have similarly anchored their stories in a compelling location, but have failed to do so with competent prose. Others, such as Josh Davis, have written about the hedonistic lifestyles of young people, but unlike Thompson, their writing is strangled by excessive and artificial attempts to be profound. If anything, Thompson's early work resembles some of Hemingway's albeit without the excessive machismo. His blending of exotic locations, outrageous behavior, and subtle moral inquiry makes \\"The Rum Diary\\" a precursor to some of Bai Ma's later works, most notably, \\"The Night Safari\\".	2001-10-14
US	50774246	R3V8W4IGIZ05D3	0195078535	771616217	A Dictionary of Modern American Usage	Books	5	13	15	N	N	A dictionary you can actually read for pleasure	As the title of this review suggests, Bryan Garner's \\"A Dictionary of Modern American Usage\\" is as enjoyable as it is helpful. Garner's wrote this book in order to provide writers, the very people who are changing language on a daily basis, with an informed judgment of the best usage of the English language. His goal in this case is to avoid the ideological debate between Descriptivists (those who believe that language is valid as it is used) and Prescritivists (those who develop rules for best practices of language usage). Instead, Garner provides a concise, practical, and often witty definition of when to use certain words and of general rules for forming words.<br />While Garner clearly has his own opinions about what constitutes good English usage, he is hardly dogmatic. For example, Garner points out that &#8220;self-depreciating&#8221; is the correct term for a person who puts his/herself down while &#8220;self-deprecating&#8221; is not. However, he is quick to acknowledge that numerous database searches on Nexus, Lexus and other textual repositories confirm that the incorrect term is used more frequently than the correct one. Garner concludes that like it or not, &#8220;self-deprecating&#8221; is becoming the acceptable usage.<br />Garner's wit is apparent in areas like his definition of \\"suicide victim\\". He classifies this as an oxymoron that expresses a prejudicial view against taking one's own life.<br />This book is an indispensable read for any professional writer or lover of language. Even if you are not concerned with those things, you will probably still find this work enjoyable for its pragmatic approach, its intelligence, and the tremendous clarity it imparts. It is the only dictionary I can think of that is as lively and entertaining as it is informative.	2001-09-12
US	50774246	R2HB1QZLRY0JG7	0670891576	624836488	In the Heart of the Sea: The Tragedy of the Whaleship Essex	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Fascinating story, superbly researched and well written	&quot;In the Heart of the Sea&quot; is a brilliant historical reconstruction of one of the greatest maritime disasters of the Nineteenth Century. In 1820 the Nantucket, whaling ship, Essex, was rammed by an eighty-five foot sperm whale and sunk in a remote part of the South Pacific. The original crew of twenty endured more than ninety days or thirst, starvation, storms, and cannibalism in open lifeboats until finally only eight of them were rescued. Although maritime disasters were fairly common in the Nineteenth Century, the ordeal of the Essex was particularly striking because no ship had ever been attacked by a whale before. In fact, the sinking of the Essex probably provided Herman Melville with much of his inspiration for writing &quot;Moby Dick&quot;. <br />Drawing on existing accounts of the disaster and supplementing them with numerous sources and contextual studies, Nathaniel Philbrick has done a wonderful job of reconstructing life aboard the Essex and in its home port of Nantucket. For example, Philbrick supplements the limited information about the crew's first successful whale hunt with descriptions of how whalers chased and slew their pray, the amount of time it took, the skills and the danger involved, the effort required to drag the whale back to the ship and finally how the whale was cut and processed aboard the ship. Philbrick's detail, which is all drawn from primary sources, makes us feel that we are right there in the small whaleboats being dragged through the ocean by a newly harpooned sperm whale, or aboard the ship itself with the whale's blood and oil all over the deck and the stench of boiling whale blubber permeating the air.<br />Philbrick also draws upon modern scientific studies to explain what the crew did incorrectly and what they endured during their survival in the lifeboats. For example, once the crew had regrouped after the sinking, a decision had to be made about which direction they should sail to in search of land. Although Captain Pollard had what turned out to be the correct instinct about where to proceed, he deferred to the combined judgment of his junior officers. Philbrick informs us that according to modern crisis management theory, a leader must be decisive at the onset of a crisis and should be increasingly democratic as the situation develops. When evaluated by standards that did not exist in his lifetime, it turns out that Captain Pollard chose the least suitable leadership style for the crisis at hand. Philbrick also draws upon modern scientific studies of the affects of starvation when describing the ordeal of hunger that faced the crew. From this he is able to gauge their physical and psychological state as their ordeal progressed.<br />One of the most enjoyable aspects of this book is the way Philbrick explains and contextualizes the thoughts and values of Nineteenth Century whaling communities such as Nantucket. Philbrick explains the Quaker ethos that pervaded the whaling business, the code of ruggedness and bravery that dominated not only the whalers, but also their wives and children. This information is invaluable in helping us to understand what went through the mind of the entire crew from Captain to cabin boy at every stage of their journey and upon the subsequent return of the survivors. In fact, Philbrick is so good at bringing the rugged, industrial, and entrepreneurial Nantucket of the Nineteenth Century back to life that it is odd to compare it to the sleepy tourist destination that it has become today.<BR>While it is clear that Philbrick loves his subject matter his narrative is commendably objective and avoids glorifying the people involved. In fact, Philbrick repeatedly makes note of the fact that the first of the Essex crew to perish were African American and he raises the possibility that the Nantucketers may have starved or killed them first in order to prolong their own survival.<br />&quot;In the Heart of the Sea&quot; is a splendid read for lovers of history or true-life adventure narrative such as &quot;Into Thin Air&quot;. In addition to being interesting and well researched, Philbrick's book is superbly written and will be difficult to put down.	2001-09-07
US	50774246	RF5UQRZRU629T	0802134009	990966757	Butterfly Stories: A Novel	Books	4	12	12	N	N	A diificult and well written novel that is not for everyone	'Butterfly Stories' is a unique literary endeavor by one of the most underrated writers of our times, William T Vollman. Many people may have moral issues with this book since the protagonist'and from what I understand, Vollman himself'is an enthusiastic whore chaser. But moral issues aside, one can't ignore the quality of Vollman's prose, the gripping honesty and lyricism of his story, and the fact that his is a novel of ideas.<br />The story begins with a young boy who calls himself the butterfly boy, living an odd and tormented life in the American suburbs. Sensitive and appreciative of women at a very early age, the butterfly boy is scorned and rejected by his peers. His childhood is characterized on the one hand by the brutal treatment he receives from the school bully, and on the other hand by his remote sense of beauty. One morning the butterfly boy observes a beautiful butterfly whose image remains with him for the rest of his life. It is presumably for this reason that he calls himself the butterfly boy. When he reaches adulthood, each successive phase of the butterfly boy's life is characterized by a new appellation. For example, he becomes the boy who wanted to be a journalist, the journalist, and finally the husband. As the boy who wanted to be a journalist, the narrator travels through Southern Europe with an odd group of people and no prospect of getting laid. As the journalist, he travels with a photographer through Thailand and Cambodia pursuing prostitutes with a sportsman's gusto.<br />The journalist and the photographer plug their pray with an odd code of bravado that prohibits the use of condoms and practically embraces its suicidal consequences. Shortly before returning to America, the journalist falls in love with a beautiful Cambodian prostitute. Once at home his becomes singularly obsessed with returning to Cambodia and joining her, at which point he refers to himself as the husband. The novel concludes with the would-be lovers reunited but hardly with the cliched happy ending that one might hope for.<br />Intellectually navigating a novel about prostitution is as tricky as cruising the red light district itself, and Vollman does his best to steer us to the right places in his story. In the preface of the book Vollman acknowledges the stigma of prostitution and challenges the reader not to fall pray to mere public opinion. In other words, if you're going to have issues with this book, don't do so just because it is about [prostitution] and [prostitute] chasing. Fair enough.<br />One of the central themes of this book is an examination of the nature of power and the will to torment. When he is repeatedly brutalized by the school bully, the butterfly boy considers the possibility that he is something of a problem-solving element in the bully's life. The bully has no sense of self and can only grasp his identity by examining the results of the actions he perpetrates on his subject. The goal isn't so much to hurt the butterfly boy as to study the results of his tormenting actions. He sees himself in the butterfly. Years later, the butterfly boy behaves in an identical fashion during his whore chasing romp through Southeast Asia. As victims of economic and political oppression, the prostitutes have little choice but to have sex with the butterfly boy (now called the journalist). The butterfly boy uses his power over the prostitutes essentially to study and learn about himself. Instead of charging at his subjects in the schoolyard, he is selecting them from the stages of various gogo bars. As a child, the narrator calls himself the butterfly boy. As an adult his life is characterized by promiscuous behavior, which in Southeast Asia normally earns a man the sobriquet of 'butterfly'. In other words, regardless of the various titles the narrator assigns to himself in his adult life, he is still the butterfly boy. This identity is the thread that traverses and essentially explains the entire story. The sensitivities and circumstances that made the child into the butterfly boy have ironically made him into a butterfly in the Asian sense that such a name is assigned.<br />Although his roles may have altered between childhood and adulthood, the butterfly boy is defined by the same psychological mechanism. Having been the victim of the school bully, he has become something of an economic and sexual bully himself (After all whore chasers really are just amateur rapists.). He can now see things from the bully's perspective and he can use other people to examine his own life. Vollman is telling us that if we're going to judge this book we have to get past the mere stigma of prostitution. The truly frightening and interesting part of this book is the psychological mechanism that forms and propels the butterfly boy. But to understand this, we have to accept him and accompany him on his torrid journey.<br />After reading the preceding paragraph, one might begin to think that the butterfly boy is an awful human being. After all, how could he after so much bullying and tormenting in turn pray upon destitute young girls in Southeast Asia? But moral judgments are never so simple, as Vollman goes to great lengths to tell us. The narrator of these stories is not without his sensitivities. When recounting his childhood misery, he draws a timeline between those events and the genocide in Cambodia. His own horrors are vastly overshadowed by those of the Cambodian people he will later meet and they are also forming the circumstances that will draw them together. Despite the fact that he is exploiting people in other countries, the butterfly never has any illusions about his own repugnant quality or about the fact that these are real human beings, not mere props for his amusement. His attitude is less offensive than seemingly more egalitarian individuals who view citizens of foreign countries as mere components of their new cultural experiences. It would be easy for Vollman to sensationalize his subject matter as a less skilled writer would surely do. But Vollman writes with lucid, mature prose that reads like an ironic documentary of sorts. Occasionally, he teases the reader with philosophical musings to remind us how smart he is. At one point, when the butterfly boy meets a man whose entire family was massacred by the Khmer Rouge he asks, 'if this man's suffering is greater than mine, does this mean that he is greater than I am?' 'Butterfly Stories' is challenging to say the least and is well worth the read. Regardless of your perspective be it moralist, intellectual, or a reader of smut, you will not find this book entirely comfortable.<br />If you are looking for a fun and easy read then skip this book. If you are interested in well written prose and a novel of ideas than you may find it worth accompanying Vollman to the dingy hotels in the red light districts of Bangkok and Pnom Pen.	2001-08-27
US	50774246	R356389TQNHYKX	0465028489	137339963	Cute, Quaint, Hungry And Romantic The Aesthetics Of Consumerism	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Witty, Intelligent, and Accurate	In this amusing and intelligent collection of essays Daniel Harris examines how consumer trends and choices have become an indispensable bromide for middle class Americans. Harris convincingly argues that consumer trends provide middle class Americans with a framework within which they can develop their identity and their sense of self. The irony of this is that while people may feel they are being different they in fact continuing to be just like everyone else. <br />For example, in his chapter on coolness, Harris points out that many middle class Americans purchase clothes which they associate with inner city gangs and violence. By dressing like a gangster, the average suburban office worker can feel like he too is hip, indifferent, potentially violent, and not to be messed with. The clothes make him feel like something of a warrior when in fact his pockets are frequently stuffed with expensive gadgets and he is hardly exposed to any danger or hardship at all. The chances are that he is working his regularly and buying what the market tells him to buy.<br />Similarly, in the chapter on zaniness, Harris shows how purchasing choices such as buying funky tee shirts or collecting kitsch make a person feel eccentric and unusual. By buying something that is marketed as \\"different\\", this person can feel unique when in fact, he or she may as well carry a state-sponsored sign around saying, \\"look at me, I am unique\\" while continuing to work, shop, and pay taxes like every body else.<br />The underlying theme of Harris's argument is that we need the illusion of empowerment that these market-driven decisions provide us with. By buying clothes that make us feel that we are special, it is that much easier for us to continue being components of a machine.<br />Harris's book is not perfect, as several other reviewers have already pointed out. For example, as amusing as his anecdotes were, I felt that they rambled on a bit more than necessary and that some chapters were not as interesting as others. I also began to develop a sneaking suspicion that Harris is or was an avid kitsch collector himself and that this book is as much a self-indictment as a social critique. But altogether \\"Cute, Quaint, Hungry, Romantic\\" is superbly written and never tries to be more than what it is: an intelligent and witty series of essays about why we buy the things we buy.	2001-07-20
US	50774246	R2CXEW5HUMQWBJ	0944379044	589962776	Mein Kampf	Books	5	23	31	N	N	A difficult but important book to read	\\"Mein Kampf\\" is an important historical source and probably should be read as such. If you can get through Hitler's bombastic writing, the sheer volume of the book, and many of its obscure German historical references, it will definitely give you insight toward the internal momentum that lead Germany to wage the second World War.<br />Among other things, \\"Mein Kampf\\" is autobiographical.  Hitler describes his childhood, schooling, his war experience and his subsequent \\"struggle\\" in the political upheaval of post-war Germany. While it is interesting to get into the dictator's mind, one should remember that Hitler had an enormous ego and that he wrote this book for public consumption. Many of his self-praising statements are simply false. For example, Hitler claims that he was the top student in his childhood history class and that his application to study in art school was rejected because the faculty felt that his architectural drawing was superior to his painting. These statements and numerous others are false, which is well documented by Alan Bullock, Ian Kershaw, and other biographers of Hitler.<br />Perhaps the most fascinating aspect of \\"Mein Kampf\\" is its literal force. Although Hitler may have distorted some facts about his past, he was scrupulously honest about his future intentions, which included killing the Jews of Europe and colonizing Russia. <br />In fact, \\"Mein Kampf\\" is more a combination of Hitler's self-promotion and a blue print of his future plans that it is an ideological tome. The central aim articulated in \\"Mein Kampf\\" is purifying what Hitler perceived to be the master race and providing it with \\"living space\\". But Hitler never provides a truly revolutionary idea that is comparable to themes found in works such as \\"The Holy Bible\\" or \\"The Communist Manifesto\\". Like Fascism itself, \\"Mein Kampf \\" is more about mood and momentum than the articulation of a compelling new idea. <br />If you are unfamiliar with Hitler's role in modern German history, you may want to read one of his numerous excellent biographies before tackling his own words. For anyone interested in exploring the phenomenon of Nazi Germany and how a despot managed to package himself and his genocidal intentions, \\"Mein Kampf\\" is an indispensable read.	2001-06-28
US	50774246	R1JAXDQL1NSRQ7	0743201299	977410269	Day Of Deceit: The Truth About FDR and Pearl Harbor	Books	4	102	117	N	N	Compelling evidence and very few flaws	&quot;Day of Deceit&quot; provides compelling evidence that President Franklin Delano Roosevelt deliberately provoked Japan to attack the American Pacific Fleet at Pearl Harbor so that America could enter the war on the allied side. Stinnett, a distinguished World War II navy veteran who researched his subject for over sixteen years, provides the following evidence:<br />1. A naval intelligence officer named Arthur McCollum developed an eight-point plan to provoke Japanese hostilities. This plan reached Roosevelt who implemented all eight points.<br />2. Contrary to popular belief, the Japanese navy broke radio silence on multiple occasions prior to December 7, 1941. <br />3. More than 94% of all secret Japanese naval messages (including some with direct reference to the impending attack on Pearl Harbor) were successfully decoded by American intelligence units prior to December 7, 1941<br />4. Roosevelt implemented a change of naval command that placed proponents of the eight-point-provocation plan in key positions of power. However, the newly promoted commander of Pearl Harbor, Admiral Husband Kimmel was consistently denied access to vital decoded translations of Japanese naval communications.<br />5. Naval Intelligence and the FBI successfully monitored the communication of Japanese intelligence agents in Hawaii for months. These communications, which included a bombing grid map of Pearl Harbor, revealed Japan's intent.<br />6. Much of the information successfully collected and analyzed by American Intelligence organizations prior to December 7, 1941 was reinforced by information from British and Dutch intelligence.<br />7. A sophisticated radio tracking system spanning from Alaska to Indonesia enabled America to track Japanese commercial and military shipping patterns. These patterns, including the movement of carrier groups and recall of worldwide merchant ships pointed to an obvious prelude to hostilities several months before December 7th.<br />8. Most of thecritical U.S. Pacific Fleet components such as heavy cruisers and aircraft carriers were not in Pearl Harbor during the bombing. In fact the only ships that were sunk were WW I relics.<br />9. Much of the documented information was censored or withheld from the public for decades and continues to be to this day.<br />10. In early 1941 Roosevelt divided the U.S. Navy into an Atlantic and Pacific command and ordered fleet construction, which included one hundred aircraft carriers to be completed by 1943. This indicates that the losses at Pearl Harbor would not interfere with America's larger war aims and with war production that supported those aims.<br />These facts are well documented and reinforced with repeated examples. Perhaps the most compelling part of the book is that photocopies of evidence including the eight-point plan are provided in a massive appendix. Simply put, you can see the evidence for yourself.<br />Interestingly enough, Stinnett never condemns Roosevelt or his cohorts and even agrees to some extent with their rationale that sacrificing a few men and ships at Pearl Harbor was ultimately worth preventing a complete Axis victory in World War II.<br />This is perhaps the only part of the book that I have an issue with. Stinnett agrees with McCollum's (and Roosevelt's) assessment that if Germany defeated England, then it would gain control or influence English colonies and nations such as Canada. McCollum believed that Germany's next move would be to occupy parts of South American and to start anti-American uprisings there--and Stinnett agrees with him. What McCollum and Roosevelt could not know at the time, but which a competent historian like Stinnett should know is that ultimately Hitler's war aims consistently followed the goals he had outlined in Mein Kampf. In other words, the defeat of England would likely have been followed by an invasion of Russia instead of an occupation of South America. And in this case, it is quite likely that Japan, having already lost two major border skirmishes with the Soviet Union, might have joined the Nazis in invading the Russian landmass from the East.<br />This judgment aside, Stinnett's work is compelling to the point of being nearly irrefutable. As to whether or not Roosevelt did the right thing in sacrificing men and material at Pearl Harbor for larger political reasons, that is something each of us must decide on our own.	2001-06-11
US	50774246	R3HCHRHGXX361T	0802131042	369529669	Hiroshima Mon Amour	Books	5	48	52	N	N	A couragious and honest exploration of love	As with most works of art that probe a subtle truth, \\"Hiroshima Mon Amour\\" will confuse a lot of people. On the surface, this film appears to be strange glimpse of failed romance and anti-social behavior. The characters, an unidentified French woman and Japanese man are having a brief and transitory love affair in Hiroshima, many years after World War II. Both of them are married (the man professes to love his wife) and neither is a stranger to anonymous love affairs. <br />Although neither party knows the other's name, they share crucial aspects of their history and identity with each other. The man is a resident of Hiroshima who was away serving in the army when the city was bombed. During the war, the woman lived in an occupied French city called Nevers and fell in love with a German soldier. When the soldier was killed the woman was punished for being a collaborator and was subsequently banished to her parents' basement for several month where in her own words she became \\"mad with spite\\".<br />The film opens by interweaving scenes of the man and woman making love, with scenes of Hiroshima bombing victims. This tells us that their story-particularly their love affair-is rooted in an act of unimaginable destruction. In the man's case, everything returns to the bombing of Hiroshima. When the woman tells him of the different monuments and documentary footage of the bombing she encountered, he replies that she has seen nothing. In the woman's case, her entire life was redefined the moment her German lover was killed by French partisans. The act of destruction was personally more traumatic and pivotal than the war itself. Worse yet was her tremendous sense of failure in surviving this event and being able to continue life without her lover. The man is inescapably a product of the bombing of Hiroshima just as the woman is a product of her experience in Nevers.<br />The woman tells the man that until her affair with him, she has never loved anyone the way she loved theGerman soldier. She shares her sense of failure at having survived the death of the German solider with the man. <br />The beginning of courtship and love often involves putting one's best foot forward, so to speak-of promoting oneself in order to appeal to the other person.  But this film argues that the foundation of love is something more sacred and more sensible. It is often a person's deepest sense of failure, fear, or inadequacy that defines who that person really is. The woman attests to this by stating that her true sense of self began when she emerged from her eight months of confinement in her parents' basement. She tells the man that aside from him, no one including her husband understands that that experience made her who she is today. The Japanese man expresses great joy in being the only one in the world who knows. He comprehends the magnitude of her gift and its testament of her love for him.<br />The love affair between the man and the woman is a doomed and paradoxical one. The woman gives herself to the man completely, but she can only do so because their relationship is free of any obligation to each other. They meet only for the purpose of loving each other under anonymous and temporary conditions. For them no other role is possible. At the end of the film, the loves part without revealing their names. The woman tells the man his name is \\"Hiroshima\\" and he replies, \\"Yes, and yours is Nevers. Nevers in France.\\" In refusing to disclose their names, the lovers banish their public identities from the momentary world that they have created for themselves. A love affair is essentially the creation of a new world that is populated only by two people under specific conditions. Entirely new things become important. Streets, restaurants, and hotel rooms that would normally mean nothing suddenly take on an incalculable significance. In this case, Hiroshima is the place where their love affair takes place, which implies that the city is destroyed twice: firstby the bombing and then by the end of the affair. Of course the film begins with the scenes of the lovers intertwined with scenes of the bombing. In the years to come, whenever the woman hears of Hiroshima she will immediately think of both. Like the love that defined who she was as a human being, this one too is rooted in unimaginable destruction.<br />While the film is superb in its own right, one should really read the original screen play by Marguerite Duras since it sheds much light on the characters in the film. The screen play describes the Japanese man as having Western features and hardly looking like a typical Asian male. Duras purposely requested this so that viewers would not see the Japanese man as exotic or unusual. The Japanese is further described as being worldly in the sense that he is conversant in several languages and involved in politics. Duras states that he is the kind of man who would be at home in any country. Similarly the woman is described as being not very beautiful. In the film the man tells her that he was first interested in her because she looked bored. The attraction defies typical filmic clichés but makes sense is subtle ways.<br />While this film may alienate many viewers, it will hopefully leave most with a deeper impression and with a series of questions. What does it really mean to love someone? What is the real definition of fidelity? What else does war destroy besides physical things such as people, materials, and the environment? What is trust? What defines a person's identity, success or failure?	2001-06-08
US	50774246	R3SQCOXIPKY5AD	3822881899	665945323	Araki: Tokyo Lucky Hole	Books	4	29	31	N	N	That tricky distinction between pornography and art	Araki is not for everybody. If you are turned off by nude, erotic images, then you should probably avoid it. If you are disgusted or horrified by candid documentary footage of the sex industry then again, you will want to avoid this book.<br />I liked this book for several reasons. In the first place, the photographs--regardless of how you feel about the subject matter--are quite good. More importantly the collection of a whole accomplishes something important. It reveals the various sex clubs and love hotels of Tokyo in the 1980s within a normal social context. Pictures of salary men fondling a gogo dancer are mixed with normal shots of a crowded street or a restaurant. The message here is very clear. The sex industry is not only a product of society, but also it is a part of society. <br />I have been interested in prostitution ever since reading Foucault's &quot;History of Sexuality&quot; and &quot;Power/Knowledge&quot;. Foucault argues that prostitution is form of regulating society. If people must have their sexual urges then fine--let them go to some shameful secretive area and pay for it. But don't them experience sexuality on their own terms.<br />Once can clearly see this in Araki's photographs. Salary men with still wearing their ties sit around a circular stage watching a topless dancer. Some draw lots to see who can go on stage to perform sexual acts with her. Why are these men doing this instead of going out, and having an affair with someone? The answer is simply that it is more productive for Japanese society to have these men work long hours and come to a highly regulated place for release.<br />Araki's work is more of a documentary than anything else. It is not meant to stimulate anyone in a pornographic manner and it is not meant to glorify its subject matter. Araki places the Japanese sex industry in a realistic and somewhat humorous context. This is probably what makes so many readers uncomfortable.	2001-05-08
US	50774246	R2ZD685W9KMHW	0393307050	680723399	Master and Commander	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Sets the tone for an excellent series	&quot;Master and Commander&quot; is the first of the Aubrey/Maturin series, which takes place on the high seas during the Napoleonic wars. While I loved this novel for its rich historical flavor, what really appealed to me was the dramatic conflict between the young master and commander, Aubrey and his second in command, Dillon. <br />It is clear that Dillon hates Aubrey for a number of reasons that seem ineffable even to him. Both men are similar in age and it is not surprising that Dillon judges Aubrey with competitive criticism, frequently finding him too cautious or even cowardly. But Dillon is an even harsher judge of his own character. Like Maturin, Dillon participated in an ill-fated uprising in his native Ireland. He subsequently avoided capture and joined the Royal Navy where life would be perfectly suitable for him if his duties did not occasionally require him to search for and arrest Irish nationalists. The conflict between loyalty to his nation and loyalty to the Royal Navy instills Dillon with considerable self-hatred, which in turn manifests itself in his contempt for his commander. Aubrey, already a simple man by nature, senses Dillon's hatred but is incapable of probing the depths to understand its origin.<br />To make matters more difficult, Aubrey has earned the hatred of his own commanding officer by having an affair with his wife. These matters are eventually resolved through a series of raids and sea battles and a few surprises for the reader. <br />Exciting and worth reading-the series only gets better.	2001-04-16
US	50774246	R2DN21IFAHI87M	0415018609	778145395	T'ung & Pollard's Colloquial Chinese	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Excellent if you know how to use it	&quot;Colloquial Chinese&quot; (the older version) is an excellent Mandarin primer, as long as you are aware of its limitations and have a plan for supplementing it. The only real problem with this book is that it uses a lot of Maoist scenarios that were relevant in the early eighties but are now rather comical. Once chapter, for example, talks about going to visit the Clear Mountain People's Commune. Although this will not help you much in China today it is only a minor setback.<br />To make this series work, I suggest you do two things. First, get the supplementary character text book, as this one only uses the Pyin Yin romanization system. Second, get a tutor, or conversation partner, or someone to help you out. Not only will that person help you learn the material, but the chances are he/she will give you more updated, contextual information to supplement the lessons. <br />Other than that, this is an excellent book. If you stick with the lessons and listen to the tapes you will develop a foundation in Mandarin.	2001-02-09
US	50774246	R1JWCZ1MTATU84	0679779159	698950156	How Proust Can Change Your Life	Books	4	70	71	N	N	A witty combination	I can see where this book might rub some people the wrong way. People with an old fashioned dedication to literature probably won't appreciate Alain de Botton's clever re-contextualizing of Proust within the modern genre of self-help. I might feel similarly if de Botton claimed to be writing a real self-help book or a serious examination of Proust, but he never attempts to perform either feat. <br />Instead, de Botton accomplishes several things. He parodies self-help books, he undertakes a humorous and highly personal exploration of Proust, and he makes a witty argument about how literature can aid us in our daily lives. The heart of de Botton's message is actually paradoxical. From one perspective he is saying, &quot;don't take literature too seriously&quot; and from another he is saying, \\"literature is a critical tool in everyone's life\\".<br />I believe that all of us essentially reinvent what we read and use it to interpret our lives and the world around us. De Botton simply provides a humorous and intelligent blue print of this natural process.	2001-02-09
US	50774246	R2QK816UB4D9R4	0679720200	882163178	The Stranger	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Condemned for being honest	The darkness and simplicity of this wonderful book are frequently misunderstood. Many readers find Merseault cold and emotionless, but this is not the case. Merseault displays emotion in his argument with the prison priest, and (big surprise) his feelings toward his mother.<br />Although he is put on trial for killing an Arab, Mersault is actually condemned for failing to grieve for his mother in public. Have any of you been to the funeral of an elderly realative? Sometimes, despite the emotions you feel for that person, the experience of the funeral is flat, meaningless and logical. All of the love came before the event and will come again many times later. But somehow a funeral leaves one dry and plain. Mersault experienced his mother's death for what it was: a dry and uncomfortable event. He did not put on a show for the people involved with the funeral or those who knew the deceased. His actions were plain and honest. <br />But Merseault does have feelings for his mother. When he learns much later that she had a lover in the elderly home she occupied he feels glad for her. That moment of empathy if an extrordinary act of comppassion. It is also a private one.<br />&quot;The Stranger&quot; reveals many simple truths about the kind of people we are and it raises questions about the inegrity behind our thoughts and actions. It is a wonderful book whose value is easily overlooked by people who only put stock in a verbose work.	2001-02-06
US	50774246	R93KY3EKH9GMF	0201354632	513731586	JavaScript for the World Wide Web, Third Edition (Visual QuickStart Guide)	Books	5	7	12	N	N	Excellent instructions and visual examples	This one is another Visual Quick Start winner. For those of you who are unfamiliar with the series, Visual Quick Start books combine simple step-by-step instructions with visual examples of code and output. This book like others in the series is easy for novices and a handy reference for seasoned programmers.<br />&quot;JavaScript for the World Wide Web&quot; organizes its lessons by tasks. The easier tasks (such as creating a screen that says &quot;Hello World&quot;) preceed the more difficult ones (such as testing the user's browser for various plugins). But essentially, a person can read the basic chapters to develop a foundation and then skip ahead to the desired task. <br />Another added benefit of this book is that the authors update it with common user errors. I was having a lot of trouble with one section and found to my delight that the Tip provided on that page addressed my error directly. This is a welcome change from something like the For Dummies series which sometimes has obnoxious callouts that don't help you at all.<br />A word of warning about programming in JavaScript. If you are using a Web Editor it might prioritize the placement of certain HTML tags regardless of where you put them. As a result, it might place an object such as a named image in front of the code that declares the object. As a result, your script will work on a PC which is too fast to account for such an error, but not on the Internet which is slow enough to catch it. Try to write your HTML in a text editor as much as possible or at least understand the quirks of your Web Editor.<br />As a programming novice who did not know JavaScript a few months ago, I rate this book highly.	2001-01-31
US	50774246	R294ZOLHS7W1SA	0375402497	864507735	Why They Kill: The Discoveries of a Maverick Criminologist	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Brilliant, timely, and urgently needed	This book contains the criminologist, Lonnie Athens' compelling new argument about the process that creates violent criminals. The media frequently portrays criminal violence as senseless or inexplicable, while psychology explains it with theoretical models that are incomplete and often incorrect. Athens explores the creation of violent criminals from a sociological perspective but avoids the traditional method of statistical examination. Instead, Athens takes an analytical approach by interviewing convicted violent offenders and extracting common modes of thought and behavior from their testimony. The result is a compelling theory of \\"violentization\\", which is the term Athens uses to describe the socialization that ordinary people experience before they become violent criminals.<br />Violentization is a process that involves several steps. Generally a person experiences brutality, humiliation, helpless exposure to someone else's victimization (personal horrorfication), violent coaching, and a violent personal revolt against real or perceived aggressors. By the time a person goes through this process the person's violent socialization is largely complete. Athens explains that socialization isn't so much a response to one's community but a response to a perceived or \\"phantom\\" community that is based on the person's experiences, memories, and recurring conversations from the past. When individuals experience violentization they develop a violent phantom community which influences their response to events in their lives. When these people resort to violent behavior they are not doing so in a senseless or medically deficient fashion, they are simply responding to a different moral framework and set of rules than individuals who haven't experienced violentization. The implication of this theory is that (1) there is a logical reason for violent behavior, and (2) the socialization of violent behavior is preventable.<br />\\"Why They Kill\\" offers compelling evidence to support Athens' theory. First, the author, Richard Rhodes examines the lives of several famous violent offenders and explains how they underwent the process of violentization. Even more compelling is Rhodes examination of violent behavior in different cultures throughout history. Rhodes concludes that in many historical situations and in many cultures, violent behavior was normal, and violentization was a means of preparing children to survive in a violent world. Rhodes explains that in recent history the state developed a monopoly on violence and compelled individuals to operate their daily lives in a non-violent manner through legal and cultural mechanisms. However, in many cases, this \\"civilizing\\" process has failed to take place-most notably in violent families (including Athens' and Rhodes' families), or in violent communities such as the South Bronx. <br />Equally as interesting is Athens' own story. Lonnie Athens grew up in an abusive household and in a violent neighborhood. His father routinely beat him and his brother but never touched his sisters. From an early age Athens developed a keen insight about violence including the fact that the behavior of abusive parents is often thoughtful and selective. Athens' father once told him that if Athens ever ran from a fight then he would beat him senseless, but if stood his ground, the father would back him up all the way. In this instance, Athens' father provided him with violent coaching. He trained his son through beatings, exposure to violence and direct training to survive in a violent world. Athens' credits his escape from the cycle of violence to the chance intervention of friends and community members and to his fortune at never having resorted to criminal violence in his youth.<br />Lonnie Athens' theories are some of the most powerful and compelling descriptions of human behavior I have ever encountered. In addition to providing a plausible and often provable explanation of violent behavior, they raise many questions about its prevention. For example, think of how two different religions, Christianity and Buddhism approach the subject. Christianity provides a moral framework which if properly adhered to or enforced supercedes the process of violentization (turn the other cheek, thou shall not kill). Buddhism compels people to question their perception of reality. If all attachments in life are illusory then presumably one's violent phantom community is also illusory and one can break the cycle of violence.  The implications of Athens' work are both frightening and hopeful.	2001-01-17
US	50774246	R3S5NO3271QI3Y	0415092078	401287212	Colloquial Vietnamese (Colloquial Series)	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Book good - tapes bad	I'm afraid &quot;Colloquial Vietnamese&quot; is not one of the better lessons in this series. The book is quite good in the sense that it introduces the student to basic phrases that one might use in real life situations. Unfortunately, the content on the tapes is quite minimal and their relationship to the book is rather haphazard. As a result, the student gets some Vietnamese sound practice but has to guess the sound and tones on many sections. I compensated for this by having a native speaker read parts of the text alound into a tape recorder, but if this lesson had been better designed, I would not have to do this. You can definitely learn Vietnames from this book but it is not as good as others in this series.	2001-01-03
US	50774246	R132N4WNZJGXQF	0670880213	825293595	A Child's Machiavelli: A Primer on Power	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The Ironic Machiavelli	This book distills Machiavelli's cut-throat advice into the the simple language and context that a child can understand. It contains such gems as:<br />&quot;When you take over some place, kill off everyone who's against you, pronto, then act really nice to everyone else.&quot;<br />The beauty of this book is that cute illustrations aside, it is hardly for children at all. Claudia Hart has cleverly transformed Machiavelli's formal discourse into the playground phrases of a primary school student. For example:<br />&quot;If you want to take over some place, don't forget to kill not just the boss, but also all his kids!&quot;<br />This book will appeal to anyone with a sense of irony and a love of history. Even fans of the master of real politik himself are bound to appreciate it.	2000-12-18
US	50774246	R201Q6EWGE1T4T	0060997028	542955149	Life Is Elsewhere	Books	3	4	5	N	N	The State-sponsored Sellout	Although the protagonist in \\"Life is Elsewhere\\" is a poet, this novel has little to do with poets or poetry. \\"Life is Elsewhere\\" is an exploration and a critique of a peculiar kind of sellout: the state sponsored artist in a totalitarian country.<br />From the very beginning, we sense that Jaromile is hardly a talented poet. His lyrical career begins in childhood when he first utters the phrase \\"mama is caca\\". This scatological verse is both humorous and prophetic since it inadvertently sullies someone he loves. As a young man, Jaromile is recruited by a friend in the secret police who compliments him on his \\"good verse\\". Jaromile rises to national fame as a state sponsored artist, but in the process he condemns a talented poet and unwittingly causes his lover to be arrested and sentenced to time in a labor camp. When Jaromile is finally confronted by a person of strength and integrity (a friend of the poet whom Jaromile denounced) he is publicly humiliated and dies in a pathetic manner by freezing to death on a balcony while his opponent makes love to the woman Jaromile wanted.<br />The East Block has produced many talented artists including \\"true believers\\" who actively supported their government despite its totalitarian nature. Maxim Gorky and Dimitry Shostokovich are two examples of this type. Gorky fully supported the Russian Revolution even after he discovered that the Soviet Government was systematically killing political prisoners, including children, in its prison system on the Solovetsky Islands. Shostokovich lived in daily peril of his life and hated Stalin, yet he was still an ardent patriot who believed in and supported Soviet Communism. <br />Jaromile has little in common with Gorky and Shostokovich because unlike them he has no talent or principles and consequently lacks intellectual conflict. Instead, he draws a closer parallel to sycophants such as Tikhon Khrenikov, the music critic who denounced Shostokovich for the excessive \\"formalism\\" of his music. Jaromile is simply a sellout who believes his own lies and as a result, he is hardly an interesting character.<br />I think many readers would have enjoyed this novel more, if Kundera had written about a character that possesses both tremendous talent and an ardent love for a villainous regime. Instead, Kundera takes the low road and portrays the typical, untalented \\"yes man\\" in the base court of most dictatorships. Kundera portrays his character with great skill and humor, but in the end it is the vapid nature of his subject matter that betrays him.	2000-11-30
US	50774246	R379FTAVUZ2UW2	0671722816	43217624	OTHELLO	Books	5	35	40	N	N	The Ocular Proof	As a play, \\"Othello\\" encompasses many things but more than anything else it is a study of pure evil. Although Othello is an accomplished professional soldier and a hero of sorts, he is also a minority and an outcast in many ways. As a Black man and a Moor (which means he's a Moslem), Othello has at least two qualities, which make him stand out in the Elizabethan world. He is also married to a Caucasian woman named Desdemona, which creates an undercurrent of hostility as evidenced by the derogatory remark \\"the ram hath topped the ewe\\".<br />Othello's problems begin when he promotes one of his soldiers, Michael Cassio as his lieutenant. This arouses the jealousy and hatred of one of his other soldiers, Iago who hatches a plot to destroy Othello and Michael Cassio. When Cassio injures an opponent in a fight he is rebuked, punished, and subsequently ignored by Othello who must discipline him and teach him a lesson. Iago convinces Desdemona to intervene on Cassio's behalf and then begins to convince Othello that Desdemona is in love with Cassio.<br />This is actually one of the most difficult Shakespeare plays to watch because the audience sees the plot begin to unfold and is tormented by Othello's gradual decent into Iago's trap. As with other Shakespeare plays, the critical components of this one are revealed by language. When Othello is eventually convinced of Cassio's treachery, he condemns him and promotes Iago in his place. When Othello tells Iago that he has made him his lieutenant, Iago responds with the chilling line, \\"I am thine forever\\".  To Othello this is a simple affirmation of loyalty, but to the audience, this phrase contains a double meaning. With these words, Iago indicates that the promotion does not provide him with sufficient satisfaction and that he will continue to torment and destroy Othello. It is his murderous intentions, not his loyal service that will be with Othello forever.<br />Iago's promotion provides him with closer proximity to Othello and provides him with more of his victim's trust. From here Iago is easily able to persuade Othello of Desdemona's purported infidelity. Soon Othello begins to confront Desdemona who naturally protests her innocence. In another revealing statement, Othello demands that Desdemona give him \\"the ocular proof\\". Like Iago's earlier statement, this one contains a double meaning that is not apparent to the recipient but that is very clear to the audience who understands the true origin of Othello's jealousy. Othello's jealousy is an invisible enemy and it is also based on events that never took place. How can Desdemona give Othello visual evidence of her innocence if her guilt is predicated on accusations that have no true shape or form? She can't. Othello is asking Desdemona to do the impossible, which means that her subsequent murder is only a matter of course.<br />I know that to a lot of young people this play must seem dreadfully boring and meaningless. One thing you can keep in mind is that the audience in Shakespeare's time did not have the benefit of cool things such as movies, and videos. The downside of this is that Shakespeare's plays are not visually stimulating to an audience accustomed to today's entertainment media. But the upside is that since Shakespeare had to tell a complex story with simple tools, he relied heavily on an imaginative use of language and symbols. Think of what it meant to an all White audience in a very prejudiced time to have a Black man at the center of a play. That character really stood out-almost like an island. He was vulnerable and exposed to attitudes that he could not perceive directly but which he must have sensed in some way.<br />Shakespeare set this play in two locations, Italy and Cypress. To an Elizabethan audience, Italy represented an exotic place that was the crossroads of many different civilizations. It was the one place where a Black man could conceivably hold a position of authority. Remember that Othello is a mercenary leader. He doesn't command a standing army and doesn't belong to any country. He is referred to as \\"the Moor\\" which means he could be from any part of the Arab world from Southern Spain to Indonesia. He has no institutional or national identity but is almost referred to as a phenomenon. (For all the criticism he has received in this department, Shakespeare was extrordinarlily attuned to racism and in this sense he was well ahead of his time.) Othello's subsequent commission as the Military Governor of Cypress dispatches him to an even more remote and isolated location. The man who stands out like an island is sent to an island. His exposure and vulnerability are doubled just as a jealous and murderous psychopath decides to destroy him.<br />Iago is probably the only one of Shakespeare's villains who is evil in a clinical sense rather than a human one. In Kind Lear, Edmund the bastard hatches a murderous plot out of jealousy that is similar to Iago's. But unlike Iago, he expresses remorse and attempts some form of restitution at the end of the play. In the Histories, characters like Richard III behave in a murderous fashion, but within the extreme, political environment in which they operate, we can understand their motives even if we don't agree with them. Iago, however, is a different animal. His motives are understandable up to the point in which he destroys Michael Cassio but then they spin off into an inexplicable orbit of their own. Some have suggested that Iago is sexually attracted to Othello, which (if its true) adds another meaning to the phrase \\"I am thine forever\\". But even if we buy the argument that Iago is a murderous homosexual, this still doesn't explain why he must destroy Othello. Oscar Wilde once wrote very beautifully of the destructive impact a person can willfully or unwittingly have on a lover (\\"for each man kills the things he loves\\") but this is not born out in the play. Instead, Shakespeare introduces us to a new literary character-a person motivated by inexplicable evil that is an entity in itself. One of the great ironies of this play is that Othello is a character of tragically visible proportions while Iago is one with lethally invisible ones.ary leader. He doesn't command a standing army and doesn't belong to any country. He is referred to as \\"the Moor\\" which means he could be from any part of the Arab world from Southern Spain to Indonesia. He has no institutional or national identity but is almost referred to as a phenomenon. (For all the criticism he has received in this department, Shakespeare was extrordinarlily attuned to racism and in this sense he was well ahead of his time.) Othello's subsequent commission as the Military Governor of Cypress dispatches him to an even more remote and isolated location. The man who stands out like an island is sent to an island. His exposure and vulnerability are doubled just as a jealous and murderous psychopath decides to destroy him.<br />Iago is probably the only one of Shakespeare's villains who is evil in a clinical sense rather than a human one. In Kind Lear, Edmund the bastard hatches a murderous plot out of jealousy that is similar to Iago's. But unlike Iago, he expresses remorse and attempts some form of restitution at the end of the play. In the Histories, characters like Richard III behave in a murderous fashion, but within the extreme, political environment in which they operate, we can understand their motives even if we don't agree with them. Iago, however, is a different animal. His motives are understandable up to the point in which he destroys Michael Cassio but then they spin off into an inexplicable orbit of their own. Some have suggested that Iago is sexually attracted to Othello, which (if its true) adds another meaning to the phrase \\"I am thine forever\\". But even if we buy the argument that Iago is a murderous homosexual, this still doesn't explain why he must destroy Othello. Oscar Wilde once wrote very beautifully of the destructive impact a person can willfully or unwittingly have on a lover (\\"for each man kills the things he loves\\") but this is not born out in the play. Instead, Shakespeare introduces us to a new literary character-a person motivated by inexplicable evil that is an entity in itself. One of the great ironies of this play is that Othello is a character of tragically visible proportions while Iago is one with lethally invisible ones.	2000-10-10
US	50774246	R1LMSYKAAK0TME	1568954301	452962366	The Yellow Admiral	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Good but not as great as the others	\\"The Yellow Admiral\\" is one of the less interesting of the Aubrey/Maturin series, although it has its merits. This novel takes place mainly on shore, and as usual, Jack Aubrey's life is more complicated and beset with more problems here than when he is at sea. <br />The biggest problem in Aubrey's life is the probability of being \\"yellowed\\".  The rank of an admiral in the Royal Navy is denoted by color. For example, an Admiral of the Blue has higher rank and responsibility than an Admiral of the White. In some cases, however, an officer is promoted to the rank of admiral for ceremonial purposes only, but is effectively decommissioned. When this happens, he is referred to as an Admiral of the Yellow, or one who is \\"yellowed\\". With Napoleon facing imminent defeat and peace on the horizon, Aubrey faces the strong prospect of himself being yellowed. To make matters worse, Aubrey opposes the enclosure movement in his district even after his commanding officer, Lord Stranraer, urges him to support it.  And just when things could not get worse, Aubrey's wife discovers his old correspondence with a former mistress and throws him out of the house.<br />Things are not going well for Stephen Maturin either, since he is isolated from his fortune and temporarily destitute. But in a rare turn of events, he appears to enjoy a tranquil domestic life with his tempestuous, capricious wife, Diana. In fact, it is a rare twist in this series to see Aubrey financially secure but romantically distraught while Maturin, for a change is emotionally contented, but utterly impoverished.<br />If you are a fan of this series or a lover of history then you will enjoy this book. It has an enormous amount to teach us about life in England and in the British navy during the Napoleonic wars. However, if you read O'brian purely for his thrilling accounts of Napoleonic naval battles then this one probably won't do it for you. O'brian briefly takes us out on Patrol of the blockaded French coast and provides a wonderful description of the perilous navigation in the fog. However, even the brief naval engagements in this book are a little too mellow and hardly as thrilling as the others. Still worthwhile though.	2000-10-09
US	50774246	R2NUQTB60N25BW	0553211757	755691955	Crime and Punishment (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A critique of Human Sacrifice in the Name of an Ideal	\\"Crime and Punishment\\" is probably the most famous and most accessible of  Dostoevsky's novels. Set in late Nineteenth Century Saint Petersburg, the  novel contains elements of a detective story, a psychological study and  metaphysical exploration.<br />The novel is about an impoverished young law  student named Raskolnikov who examines the possibility of killing his  elderly landlady and stealing her money so that he can use it to assist his  family. Raskolnikov soon concludes that killing the landlady constitutes a  heroic and decisive act of courage. He murders her with an axe and steals  her money but soon falls under suspicion and is investigated by the police.  The police inspector suspects Raskolnikov of committing the crime but does  not attempt to arrest him immediately. Instead, the inspector drags out the  investigation in order to give Raskolnikov the opportunity to come to terms  with his own conscience. Eventually the burden on Raskolnikov's conscience  and the realization that his crime will not solve his family's problems  compel Raskolnikov to confess. He is subsequently arrested and sentenced to  a few years imprisonment in Siberia.<br />Although \\"Crime and Punishment\\" is  something of a thriller, it is largely a novel of ideas. When Raskolnikov  rationalizes his right to kill his landlady, he assumes the role of the  Nietzian superman: an individual whose state of mind and whose actions  transcend good and evil. The police inspector symbolizes the counter  argument to Raskolnikov's validation of the Nietzian superman by realigning  Raskolnikov with his own conscience. Ultimately, this novel argues that no  man is beyond good and evil and that any attempt to thwart one's conscience  is bound to end in folly.<br />The theme of \\"Crime and Punishment\\" takes place  on an individual level, but can also be applied to the historical progress  of nations as well. Dostoevsky was passionately opposed to what he felt was  mankind's hubris in attempting to build a paradise on Earth-an act that he  felt was symbolized by the Crystal Palace (Britain's exhibit in the World's  Fair). Dostoevsky believed that creating a utopian society involved the  type of deliberate human sacrifice and moral realignment performed by  Raskolnikov. Dostoevsky's fears appear to have been born out in the Soviet  experience, in which the entire apparatus of government from the leaders of  the nation to the lowest commissars slaughtered millions of Russian  citizens in the name of socialism and progress.	2000-09-06
US	50774246	RXIJUG0S7LCYB	0393959465	97983792	The Histories (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	5	24	35	N	N	A short moral history of the West	Often called \\"the father of history\\" Herodotus wrote the history of the Persian Wars more than one thousand years ago. The Persian Wars were a  series of wars between the Powerful Persian empires of Xerxes and Darius  and a handful of Greek cities, most notably Athens and Sparta.  The Persian  Wars set the tone for many subsequent themes in Western History  including:<br />1. The concept of preserving Western culture from Eastern  invaders. This theme occurs again and again in the conflicts between Rome  and Parthia, the latter Roman Empire and the Huns, Charlamagne and the  Saracens, late Medieval Europe and the Mongols, and contemporary Hollywood  propaganda films about Arab terrorists. 2. The idea of a highly motivated  and cunning underdog defeating a powerful but sloppy enemy.  3. The need  for alliances and team work.<br />The most interesting part of The Histories,  however is not the politics or the battles but the moral lessons that  Herodotus tried to impart. A recurring theme in The Histories is the idea  that the Greeks defeated the Persians because the Greeks acted in Harmony  with nature while the Persians defied nature. Herodotus provides countless  anecdotes of the hubris of Persian emperors who attempted to dominate  nature by bridging the Hellespont , draining an offending river by digging  thousands of diverting canals, or throwing shackles into the ocean to  symbolize its submission to the Emperor. Herodotus viewed these actions as  Hubris because they contained a false assumption of man's superiority over  nature. <br />It is interesting that the father of Western History derived his  culture's legitimacy from its respectful interaction with nature. What on  Earth would he make of us now?	2000-08-30
US	50774246	R3051AJ5YVTXL4	0864424663	615937318	Lonely Planet Philippines (6th ed)	Books	3	12	12	N	N	Seriously out of date!	The Lonely Planet series is excellent and you can never go too wrong with  it. Unfortunately, the Phillippines guide book written by Jens Peters is  seriously out of date. This book was published in 1997 when the political  and economic situation in the Phillippines were radically different. Since  the Asian economic crisis, the Piso is now worth half as much as it was in  1997 but the unsuspecting reader will not know this. The political  situation is such places as Mindinao has also deteriated considerably and  poses a danger to tourists.<br />Peters provides this book with a wealth of  information and it certainly isn't his fault that Lonely Planet has lapsed  in updating it. I advise travelers to verify the information in this book  with friends and sources on the Internet. I also hope that LP updates this  book as soon as possible.	2000-08-23
US	50774246	R2QXLZHPQTEVJH	0864425244	953668946	Lonely Planet China (China a Travel Survival Kit, 6th ed)	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Very Useful	I used this book when traveling alone in China twice. The cultural  descriptions of China's many and diverse regions were helpful, accurate and  hardly suffused with glamor. More importantly, the nuts and bolts travel  information such as hotels, railroads, airlines, regulations, etc. was  right on the mark. <br />A word of warning, if you're spending time in  Kunming, some of the streets and restaurants referenced in this book no  longer exist because of the massive construction effort there.	2000-08-23
US	50774246	R2AQCQC81F3V7K	0553212168	569503661	The Brothers Karamazov (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	39	43	N	N	Boldly sums things up	\\"The Brothers Karamazov\\" is an ethical compendium and certainly one of the greatest novels ever written. Other reviewers have done a better job than I  could of summarizing the complexly layered plot and symbolic nature of the  characters. I might depart from them a bit by suggesting that each of the  brothers is confined to a specific role and might be viewed as a prisoner  of sorts.<br />The radical, revolutionary brother Ivan is a prisoner of his  intellect. His essay on \\"The Grand Inquisitor\\" is the second of his  two-part assault on his brother Aleosha's belief in Christ. Dimity, the  lover of women and eruptive speaker is a prisoner of his passion. Aleosha,  who worships his spiritual mentor, Father Zosima is a prisoner of his  faith, while Smerdyakov, the ill begotten son of Fyodor Karamazov and a  street woman is a prisoner of his circumstances. Each brother is a unique  and integral component of the human condition.<br />But a novel cannot work  through symbolism and personification alone. Like Tolstoi's `War and Peace\\"  this book is also a series of essays. The chapter in which Father Zosima  discovers his faith on the evening before his is supposed fight a duel is  an essay of courage and integrity that far outstrips any thing written by  \\"macho\\" authors such as Hemingway and Camus. In this chapter, Zosima is a  carousing young military officer who discovers his faith in God on the  evening before he is to fight a duel. This puts Zosima in a quandary since  his faith now prevents him from killing another human being but he still  does not want to appear a coward. Zosima solves this problem by offering  his opponent the first shot. When his opponent misses, Zosima declines to  take his shot. Instead he throws away his pistol and asks \\"am I worth it?\\"  Zosima has transcended his ego and followed his conscience while still  preserving his honor. This brief, action packed chapter summarizes the  complexity of spiritual evolution. Zosima's faith does not givehim an easy  way out or solve all of his problems. He must still deal with the  consequences of his previous actions even after discovering God. Faith in  his case is hardly a narcotic.<br />The Grand Inquisitor chapter on the other  hand clearly separates the sort of faith experienced by Father Zosima from  the more cynical manifestations of organized religion. In this chapter Ivan  tells Aleosha a story about Christ returning to Earth during the height of  the Spanish Inquisition. Christ is arrested and brought before the Grand  Inquisitor who clearly recognizes Him for who and what He is. Far from  fearing or rejoicing in Christ's presence, the Grand Inquisitor threatens  to try him for heresy and burn him.  Since the Grand Inquisitor is  primarily interested in the power and authority he derives from his  position, the last thing he wants is a true believer let alone Christ  himself to appear on the scene. The Grand Inquisitor tries to bate Christ  into rebutting him, but Christ's silence frustrates him and eventually the  Grand Inquisitor releases him.<br />From these brief descriptions, one can  hopefully grasp the range of this work as a novel of ideas and a panoramic  essay on the nature of faith and the human condition. In illuminating the  struggles born by every human being in their physical and spiritual lives,  Dostoevsky offers no easy solution. Dostoevsky's emphasis on the silent,  invisible nature of courage and the folly of institutionalized belief make  him the spiritual father of thinkers such as Nietze and Sartre. The ideas  this book illuminates and questions it raises are universal and relevant to  this day.	2000-08-14
US	50774246	R33MP0E0MWMGDP	0140048979	773818200	The Face of Battle: A Study of Agincourt, Waterloo, and the Somme	Books	5	24	27	N	N	Illuminating, well written, relevant	&quot;The Face of Battle&quot; is a unique combination of military history and social history that is relevant to everyone. As enjoyable as military  history is, most of it tends to be a combination of adventure story and  propaganda. John Keegan accomplishes something different in this respect by  illuminating the day to day experiences of common soliders in several  historic battles. For example, Keegan's chapter on the Battle of Agincourt  describes such details as the weight of the British soldiers' armor, their  response to the cold weather, the discomfort they felt relieving themselves  while dressed, and the fear they must have experienced at the thought of  doing battle with numerically superior French cavalry.<br />Keegan does much  to expose the reality of combat and the life of a common soldier throughout  history in an objective and apolitical fashion. If you are a pascifist or a  social historian, then by all means read this book to enhance your  understanding of war's unpleasant realities. If you are a fan of military  history, then read this book to gain a finer, more detailed understanding  of war.	2000-08-09
US	50774246	R38TTAV0OKWLPV	0156711427	842807821	A Passage to India	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Attitudes on Trial	A book can be read and enjoyed (or despised) on many levels. I enjoyed &quot;A Passage to India&quot; because of its authentic historical flavor and largely accurate portrayal of the English colonial mindset. <br />&quot;A Passage to India&quot; is essentially a trial of attitudes. These include the prejudice and disdain of the British toward their Indian colonial subjects, the fear and confusion the British experience when confronted by a cultural and artistic sensuality that vastly contradicts their own, and the hatred a victim feels toward his antagonists' entire race. The British accord the Indians with an inferior status and consequently are unable to treat them in a just or fair fashion. As a result, the British legal process becomes more of a persecution pageant than an instrument of justice. Similarly, the British cannot accept or comprehend the sensual quality of Indian art and culture. The stiff, repressed Ms. Questead is overwhelmed by her exposure to the erotic paintings of the Mahabara caves. When she experiences a mental collapse, the British assume that her condition is the result of sexual molestation and falsely accuse Dr. Aziz of this crime. When Dr. Aziz is acquitted he develops an implacable hatred not only for the British but also for his own attorney. Dr. Aziz's attitude is a direct response to his persecution and in this sense is, itself, a product of English colonialism. <br />Eventually Dr. Aziz realizes that he must judge and accept English people on a personal and individual basis. To accomplish this, his attitude toward them must be based on his direct experience with individuals, not on either party's identity as a European or an Indian.	2000-07-31
US	50774246	R22XHZLRZWAQ0A	0375701230	91189139	A Death in the Family	Books	4	136	145	N	N	The prelude is the best part	&quot;A Death in the Family&quot; is one of those books that falls into the &quot;great works tarnished by high school English class&quot; category. I read this book in the Tenth grade and garnered no sense of its  raw literary power at that time since my teacher was more interested in  using it to bash Catholicism than to explore its wonderful prose.<br />Many  years later I read the book again while living abroad. Since I was not in  an English speaking environment the language and mood of the novel were  even more evocative.<br />I was astounded when I reread the essay called  &quot;Knoxville Summer of 1915&quot; that precedes the rest of the novel.  This is one of the most beautiful and most effective pieces of English I  have ever come across. Agee describes a child's observation of his  neighbors evening activities in their back yard in a subtle sequence of  events. The essay mixes dreamy metaphor with detailed observation in a  slow, rhythmic description. The child observes the rolled up shirt sleeves  of fathers watering their lawn after dinner and then tells himself that now  the night is a &quot;blue dew&quot;. The genius behind this is how the  child makes the transition for detailed observation to poetic descriptions  of the entire experience. <br />The rest of the novel is wonderful in parts  but hardly equals the opening essay. Agee is very talented at conveying  character, dialog, and mood. We sense the warmth of family life before the  father's death and the absolute confusion and bewilderment that follow. It  is very painful to read about how the narrator, as an awkward child, is  momentarily accepted by his classmates because his father's death is a new  and interesting topic for them. It is a terrible thing that in a roundabout  way, the callousness of the boy's classmates converts his father's death  into a moment of joy. But it is also one of life's realistic irony.<br />The  subject matter of this book is tragic and even in its most poetic parts its  mood is very grim. You may want to keep this in mind before reading it.	2000-07-17
US	50774246	R1VKPSTCEDRG20	0684801221	737092002	The Old Man and The Sea	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Possibly his best...	&quot;The Old Man and the Sea&quot; is one of Hemmingway's simplest and most evocative books. It sets him apart from the majority of modern writers as a brilliant story teller. It is also commendable for its mood and  subtlety. <br />The novel is almost exclusively about the isolated life and  thoughts of an old fisherman who unexpectedly finds himself pursuing the  largest catch of his life. As the old man hooks his prey and follows it out  to sea for several days, it becomes evident that his motive centers more  around personal challenge and a kind of silent (dare we say  &quot;existential&quot;) heroism than commercial gain or notoriety. His  recollections, thoughts and struggle have a peace and momentary savagery  that is totally in keeping with the rhythm of the sea. <br />I grew up on the  ocean and spent a significant portion of my life living on boats. Speaking  from my own experiences I can say that Hemmingway &quot;got it&quot; in  this book. He captured the mood, rhythm and isolation of a sailor's  thoughts with impeccable realism.<br />Many of Hemingway's novels do not  convey mood as successfully as this one. &quot;For Whom the Bell  Tolls&quot; never fully convinces the reader of the desperate courage or  its characters because the dialog is too canned. &quot;A Farewell to  Arms&quot; begins with one of the greatest openings of any Twentieth  Century novel and then dissolves into unremarkable turmoil and argument.  Even &quot;The Sun Also Rises&quot; seems a little too self-conscious of  the image it attempts to portray. But &quot;The Old Man and the Sea&quot;  is flawless in its ability to draw us into its mood.	2000-07-17
US	50774246	R15X762K9F7U7D	0394757777	366299397	Berlin Diaries, 1940-1945	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Extrordinary	This is one of the most extrordinary books I've ever read. Missy Vassiltchikov was friends with several of the key conspiritors in the attempt to assasinate Hitler, including Count Graf Van Der Schellenberg and  Adam Von Trot zu Holz. It is amazing that given her close relationship with  the conspiritors (even after their arrest!) that Missy Vasiltchikov escaped  arrest and exectution herself. What's more amazing is that she kept a diary  of her relationship with these people and documented her own desire to see  Hitler eliminated. She filed these pages with the normal dispatches and  documents of her civil service job and amazingly was never discovered.<br />I  enjoyed this book as a primary source and for the amazing exposure it  provides of the conspiracty to assasinate Hitler. But I also enjoyed the  writing--which is quite good--and the details of Missy Vasiltchikov's life,  which are quite extrordinary.<br />This book isn't for everyone, but if you're  interested in modern German history, or in a story of courage and survival  then I recommend it.	2000-07-12
US	50774246	R1EG69VIGL9B52	0385260326	287129497	The Trial of Socrates	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Interesting argument--not sure if I agree with it.	I think a person would have to dig into many primary and secondary sources to validate or refute I.F. Stone's interpretation of the trial of Socrates. Stone argues that among other things, Socrates was anti-democratic and that he deliberately martyred himself. Stone justifies the Athenian condemnation of Socrates on the basis that Socrates undermined Athens' democratic foundation. <br />Even if we were to scrutinize this argument with research material, we may never learn more about the trial than what Plato--a biased source--tells us. It is also difficult to judge percisely how democratic Athens really was. One historian has convincingly argued that Athens was democratic in name, but like the U.S., it persued the interests of its elite more than the spirit of its ideology. So was Socrates attacking Athenian democracy or a hypocritical exploitation of democracy by the Athenian elite? It doesn't really matter whether or not Stone provides the right answer because he asks the right question,and that is what makes his book interesting.<br />Stone also argues that Socrates was a dead beat who refused to work and who placed a heavy burden of responsibility on his wife while he hung out with the boys and dispensed philosophy. I can almost picture a Monty Python skit, but it is an interesting personal examination of an otherwise idealized figure.<br />I recommend that people read this book for its interesting new interepretation of a hallowed Western thinker. Don't be so quick to condemn it--being right is not always the most important thing.	2000-07-07
US	50774246	R2M0NCLDBOZOH8	1568304331	528739605	Creating Killer Web Sites	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Good as a reference, not a primer	I agree with most of the reviewers who stress Web content over style and who criticize the design practices in this book. This doesn't mean that &quot;Creating Killer Web Sites&quot; is a bad book, it just means you  should extract the useful parts of it without being compelled to design  fluffy, image oriented sites. <br />I found this book useful because it  provided some very helpful tips about Web graphics, color pallets,  PhotoShop, etc., which any Web designer needs to master. I found a lot of  Siegel's design concepts creative and interesting, but--guess what--I  avoided them like the plague. In professional and personal site building I  have always had to produce clear, reasonably elegant sites without  superfluous imagery. Based on my professional and personal experience, not  to mention exposure to other reviewers--I think that's what most people  look for in a Web site.<br />Use this book for its many helpful graphic tips,  and enjoy its creative ideas. But don't take its site building concepts too  seriously.	2000-07-06
US	50774246	RHXCF589CHEQ9	0380012081	631702483	Generous Man	Books	3	2	3	N	N	It was a generous gift	This book is about a middle-aged woman who has an affair with a teenaged boy. My middle aged English teacher gave it to me to read &quot;on the side&quot; when I was fifteen. I enjoyed it.	2000-07-06
US	50774246	R1YPI4JQDXQT3G	031204867X	996446208	Plotting and Writing Suspense Fiction	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Insiteful in more ways than one	I read this book after experiencing a couple of Patricia Highsmith's Tom Ripley novels. Since I liked her mysteries so much I thought this book would provide interesting insite into the mind and technique of the author,  which it did. In terms of revealing the brain child behind the Ripley books  it was quite revealing.<br />ALthough I am not a professional writer of  fiction, I found the advice in this book interesting and helpful because it  was suplemented with real life examples. Highsmith fills this book with  examples of what she did right and what she did wrong throughout her  career. She explains the general--and fairly sensible--principles that  guide her writing as well as the little details that can enhance or ruin a  novel. If I were an aspiring author, I think I would derive useful and  interesting information from this book.	2000-07-06
US	50774246	R1PTD11AJ3C1O2	0679405739	914207295	War and Peace (3 Volume Set)	Books	5	49	61	N	N	Staggering yet remarkably clear	It takes an act of courage and determination to begin reading &quot;War and Peace&quot;-- not only because of its size but also because of the staggering reputation that precedes it. If you have the time to read a  1400+ page novel and the patience to sift through a large variety of  Russian characters, then I promise you won't be disappointed. <br />&quot;War  and Peace&quot; is many things to many people. It is a love story, a heroic  military epic, a vast panorama of Nineteenth Century Russian society, and  possibly the most incisive spiritual essay produced in the West to date.  The core component of the story is the adventures of three characters,  Count Pierre Bazukov, Prince Andrei Bolkansky, and Natasha Rostova. Prince  Andrei is a cynic whose battlefield experience in the early Napoleonic  campaigns has left him bereft of his idol, Napoleon. His dour outlook on  life is changed when he meets Natasha at a ball and falls in love with her.  Pierre is also smitten with Natasha, but his close friendship with Prince  Andrei prevents him from revealing his feelings or acting on them. Prince  Andrei and Natasha become engaged, but this turns to disaster when Natasha  attempts to elope with a man who has beguiled her. Pierre intervenes to  save Natasha's honor but the damage is done and the heart broken prince  Andrei exiles himself to the countryside. <br />The lives of each character  are irrevocably altered by Napoleon's invasion of Russia. Prince Andrei is  mortally wounded at the Battle of Borodino and transferred to a field  hospital outside of Moscow. Natasha and her mother arrive in the same  location as refugees while Pierre remains in Moscow and attempts to  assasinate Napoleon. While Prince Andrei lies in the hospital bed he sees  his nemesis--the man who tried to steal Natasha from him--in the process of  having his leg amputated. At that moment he feels immense compassion for  the man and bears no more rancor towards him for destroying his  relationshipwith Natasha. Prince Andrei's only wish is to see Natasha  again so that he can forgive her. Later that night Natasha goes to the  hospital in hopes of seeing Prince Andrei. When they meet again, Prince  Andrei says, &quot;I love you.&quot; This is probably the most powerful  moment in the book since the love Prince Andrei expresses is not the  adulating, possessive love a man feels for his bride. Prince Andrei loves  her with a universal compassion and gentleness. He loves her as another  human being, not as in instrument of his happiness. Prince Andrei has  reached a point of spiritual evolution and in this sense, both Natasha and  his rival are his teachers. <br />Back in Moscow, Pierre lines Napoleon's  figure in his gun sights but is unable to shoot. He does not have it in him  to alter the course of history. Instead, Pierre is captured and marched off  with the French Army until he is liberated near the Russian border. He  returns to Moscow and marries Natasha.<br />And this is just a summary of the  core of the story. It omits many of the most interesting characters such as  Prince Andrei's stern, ascetic father, or Natasha's temperamental brother,  Nikolai. Entire sections of the novel are essays in themselves. For example  at the beginning of the battle of Borodino, Tolstoi argues that the course  of battle is not a matter of command or control but of fate.<br />Many readers  have claimed that Tolstoi was a genius, but it would be more accurate to  say that he was a genius on several levels. Tolstoi was a gifted writer, as  well as a brilliant philosopher and social scientist. He was also a  spiritual genius on par with Ghandi. Tolstoi's interpretation of love is a  universal one that transcends any belief system. But this is hardly  surprising from the man who said that if most Russians practiced true  orthodoxy then the government would deem it a heresy.	2000-07-05
US	50774246	R13M7K1N3N20OZ	0811815862	574687172	The Journey is the Destination: The Journals of Dan Eldon	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Listen to different peoples' reactions to this book.	This book will undoubtedly be admired on several levels. It is the story of a life well lived, it is an example of limitless creativity, and it is a reminder of the larger injustice that permeates much of this world.<br />Personally, I admire Eldon's work for several reasons. Like Eldon I am dyslexic and take inspiration from the fact that he did not let his disability hamper him in any fashion. His journal is a commentary on many things including, life, art, injustice, passion, and perception. Eldon made extrordinary use of his talents in his short life time. His art and experience teach us that the value in life is in the process of living itself, not in goals and dreams that inevitably postpone happiness.	2000-07-01
US	50774246	R302JFHQC3OY2I	0140042598	303305496	On the Road (Penguin Orange Collection)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Irresistable Momentum	I like this book because it has a compelling momentum. &quot;On the Road&quot; is the fictionalized account of the real adventures of Neil Cassidy (Dean Moriarty) and Jack Kerouac (Sal Paradise). Karouac's writing  is as fast as the cars that Dean steals or the time that Dean remains  faithful to any particular women. The adventures of the main characters are  fascinating and hillarious, especially when one realizes that they took  place in 1948.<br />I felt that the book reached a pinacle of sadness when the  roguish travelers drove deep into Mexico for a few nights of drinking and  whore chasing. Not only were they having too much fun, but one senses that  they actually realized it. It was only a matter of time before the party  was over, frienships began to disentegrate and reality set it.<br />Although  this book has a sophamoric humor, it is important to realize that Kerouac  was a serious writer who was deeply influenced by Thomas Woolfe. Like  Woolfe, Kerouac was fascinated by his childhood impressions growing up in a  small American city. And like Woolfe, he later came to worship the open  road and its range of possibilities. <br />Kerouac's first book, &quot;The  Town and the City&quot; was a bold and serious chronicle like Woolfe's  &quot;Look Homeward Angel&quot;. On the road marked his departure from  imitating his idol and his emergence as a creative force in his own right.  Kerouac's themes and his language will not appeal to those with rigid  cultural and academic standards. But they are compelling, genuine, and as  real a reflection of the American experience as those of other great  writers such as Melville, Hemmingway, and Woolfe.	2000-06-21
US	50774246	R3IO11DODDASAE	0679764003	937627221	A Happy Death	Books	4	22	25	N	N	Less immediate and more flushed out than the stranger	In &quot;A Happy Death&quot;, Camus took a different approach to writing what later became &quot;The Stranger&quot;. The latter work is famous (and sometimes despised) for it terse, efficient prose, its brutal frankness,  and its avoidance of moral consideration. As a result, many readers do not  know what to make of Merseault and often mistake him for a psychopath. In  &quot;A Happy Death&quot;, Camus writes in the third person and adds  considerably more elements to the story. The ending also differs from  &quot;The Stranger&quot;.<br />In &quot;The Stranger&quot;, Merseault kills an  Arab for no apparent reason other than caprice or irritability. Merseault  is then put on trial and condemned more for his flagrant aversion to  bourgeois hypocrisy than for the crime he committed.<br />But in &quot;A Happy  Death&quot;, Merseault's crime had a clearer motive and a deeper symbolism.  Merseault kills his crippled friend Zagreus in order to obtain his wealth  and use it to transform his otherwise mundane life. In Greek mythology,  Zagreus was torn apart by the Titans but Zeus was able to give his still  beating heart to his daughter who later fathered Dinoysis, the god of wine.  Zagreus literally means &quot;torn apart&quot; in Greek. The myth of  Zagreaus is comparable to the role of Christ in the Christian tradition  because Zagreus was mocked, tortured, and executed. But unlike Christ,  Zagreaus escaped the final humiliation by having a substitute take his  place.  <br />Camus re-appropriates this legend in &quot;A Happy Death&quot;.  The wheelchair bound Zagreaus essentially prompts Merseault to murder him  so that he can escape the humiliation of his infirmity and pass his wealth  on to Merseault. There are subtle indications that the two men are  inextricably bound to each other. Both men experience the same lover at  different times and both share the same cynical view that she is only an  image of what they want to see in her. Each man also has what the otherneeds. Merseault has the physical capability to enjoy life, but he is  hampered by routine and by his work. Zagreus has wealth but lacks the  physical capability to enjoy it.<br />The re-appropriation of the Zagreus myth  asks the question &quot;what does it mean to truly be alive&quot;? Is it  better that only one of the two men live as long as he lives his life to  the fullest rather than both living unhappy, restricted lives? After  killing Zagreaus, Merseault leads a life of travel, hedonism, and leisure.  When he is subsequently stricken ill, he dies a happy dignified death.<br />In  this sense I would disagree with the reviewer who characterized &quot;A  Happy Death&quot; as a primer for &quot;The Stranger&quot;. Instead, it is  a story with a completely different emphasis. Where the stranger depicts  the fate society metes out to an honest individual, &quot;A Happy  Death&quot; asks what it truly means to be alive.	2000-06-20
US	50774246	R1JZVRH0C41GNN	0688063462	997665202	A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court (Books of Wonder)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A satire that teaches about our own way of thinking	I know this book was boring and humorless to a lot of students and I can understand why. Things like the telegraph mean nothing to us now, but in Mark Twain's time it was hot technology like a rocket or the Internet are  to us today.<br />Mark Twain was saying, what if we took our modern  technology back to a time when people believed in magic and faught with  swords and armor. Whoever did this could probably convince these people  that the technology was a superior magic and could use this knowledge to  dominate them.<br />This is what happens in the story, but only for awhile.  Eventually, even the people in King Arthur's court adjust to having the new  technology and no longer see it as magic. For example, the people running  the telephone exchange don't care about the Connecticut Yankee's  &quot;magic&quot; they just want to keep the lines of communication open  with Camelot.<br />This kind of story is called &quot;satire&quot;. It is  basically a story that teaches us something by making fun of something  else. In this story, Mark Twain makes fun of the kind of people who think  they can accomplish anything with technology. The Yankee thinks that he can  use technology to trick the nights of King Arthur's court and to manipulate  them. At first he succeeds, but gradually they become so immersed in the  technology that they don't care about magic and legends any more. Once  their mental landscape changes, the Yankee has lost the context he needed  to control them. The main argument here is that technology does not solve  everything, it just produces new problems. And the kind of people who  worship technology are bound to fail in one way or another.<br />Hope this  helps.	2000-06-19
US	50774246	R3S3IV9M0F0F9N	0764501410	201699784	Java Programming For Dummies	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Does not live up to its purpose	Although this book is for beginners, it is very problematic. I think the publishing company farmed this project out to a developer without telling this person that the book was for beginners. The book starts out with a  good primer of object oriented principles but then jumps into advanced  stuff such as creating listeners. It does not lay out the lesson plans well  the little cartoon graphics are supremely annoying. Other books in this  series have been pretty helpful but this one is a bit of a disaster. If  anyone finds a good introductory text for Java programming, please let me  know.	2000-06-19
US	50774246	R3IO8A79977QFB	0316769533	862964341	The Catcher in the Rye	Books	5	13	16	N	N	A hard act to follow	&quot;Catcher in the Rye&quot; portrayed the suffering and alienation of an otherwise privileged, middle-class young man long before such a theme became fashionable. So much of today's writing with comparable themes seems  like a tepid imitation of the original.<br />Holden Caulfield is an utterly  convincing character who is not reaching out from the pages and trying to  grab our sympathy. Salinger should be commended for not endowing Caulfield  with bathos and excessive sadness. Instead, he presents Caulfield's state  of mind in a simple, lucid narrative. As a result, this novel is very  effective in examining timeless questions about the nature of happiness and  the conflict between the individual and society. There is also a compelling  honesty in Salinger's writing that makes Caulfield so believable that I  frequently forget he is a fictional character. <br />This book should be read  by young people and adults alike. It should also be read by aspiring  writers attempting to market their own tales of woe.	2000-06-16
US	50774246	R17K207Q6ELQKZ	0060193654	146235403	One of the Guys	Books	2	8	12	N	N	Great premise, not so great writing	The premise of this book is interesting and the first few pages were both well written, and very promising. Unfortunately, the writing deteriorated through the rest of the book. There were too many run-on sentences and obvious strains of effort in putting together the dialog. A book is generally not worth reading when one starts to feel uncomfortable and embarrassed for the author. I'm not objecting to the premise or language of the book but to the quality of the writing which simply wasn't very good.<br />Oddly enough I first encountered this book when its creator sent me an unsolicited email message urging me to read it. Receiving spam is obnoxious enough in itself, but receiving heaps of self-praise and frantic requests to buy a marginally written work is just sad.	2000-06-16
US	50774246	R1S4V1PVLASXMS	0811806960	893832069	The Griffin & Sabine Trilogy Boxed Set: Griffin & Sabine/Sabine's Notebook/The Golden Mean	Books	5	47	49	N	N	Unique and compelling	The Griffin and Sabine trilogy in one of the most creative series of books I've read. The premise that two people encounter each other telephathically but have difficulty meeting face to face is an interesting one. It is made  even more realistic and compelling by the format of the books. The story is  told entirely through the correspondence between the protagonists which is  displayed in real letters and postcards. It is an interesting experience to  turn a page of the book, open Sabine's envelope, remove her letter to  Griffin, and then read it. Finally, the most compelling aspect of the  series is Bantoc's art work. His illustrations are extrordinary and very  creative. The series is beautifully crafted from start to finish.<br />Some  readers might be put off by an underlying sinister quality of the series,  especially in the last book. Bantok also leaves us with many loose ends  which some might find frustrating. Even if the plot or the concept of this  series bothers you, it is worth checking out for the concept and creativity  if nothing else. This series demonstrates that &quot;multi-media&quot; is  not just a term that refers to computers and the Internet. Bantok's series  rests on three different media: writing, physical components such as  envelopes and letters, and art.	2000-06-16
US	50774246	R21DYCTZ7VF4JE	0842027807	995572652	Blundering to Glory: Napoleon's Military Campaigns	Books	4	6	11	N	N	Interesting argument	Owen Connelly convincingly argues that Napoleon's genius lay in his spontaneous tactical response on the battlefield rather than his strategic ability. According to Connelly, Napoleon favored attacking numerically  superior opponents and then quickly retreating in order to access their  response. When the inevitable counter attack came, Napoleon response was  quick, spontaneous, and often lethal.<br />Connelly attributes Napoleon's  success to additional factors such as the plethora of brilliant generals  under his command. Without them, Napoleon's ability to &quot;scramble&quot;  effectively on the battlefield would be compromised. Napoleon's ability to  divide his opponents and deal with them in a piecemeal fashion was another  contributing factor to his string of early victories. But as Connelly  points out, by the time of Waterloo, Napoleon's enemies were united and he  had far fewer capable subordinates than he did in the early years.<br />This  book is appealing for its fresh point of view and its concise, lucid  description of battles. Being a book about military history, \\"Blundering to  Glory\\" is fascinating, but limited in many ways.	2000-06-16
US	50774246	R2W1I4S9ODVX5S	0201354934	245118064	HTML 4 for the World Wide Web, Fourth Edition	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Excellent for beginners and experts	This book along with most of the others in the Visual Quick Start series gets it. Learning technical concepts such as HTML does not have to be a painful and alienating process. <br />This book combines simple, modular  lessons with frequent illustrations. The presentation of the text is simple  and the illustration helps you to see exactly what you are doing.  Essentially, the book uses both hemispheres of the brain. If you learn  visually, you can focus on the pictures first and absorb the text second.  If you learn by processing written instructions, then you can absorb the  text first and confirm your understanding of it by refering to the  illustrations. Many technical manuals are too dense and use illustrations  in a haphazard fashion. This one has been optimized for the best and most  enjoyable learning experience.<br />If you are new to HTML coding then this  book is an excellent start. If you are experienced, then this book is still  a very handy reference. I have friends with software patents who keep it  within reach when they use HTML.	2000-06-16
US	50774246	R3MBKDVKIC8CQD	0393037037	952337324	H.M.S. Surprise (Aubrey/Maturin Novels)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Home again	I had been reading reviews of Patrick O'brian's Aubrey/Maturin series for years before I finally picked up &quot;H.M.S. Surprise&quot;. The book was very compelling and revealed O'brian to be a brilliant writer of historical  fiction.<br />The Aubrey/Maturin series describes the maritime and romantic  exploits of a British sea captain and an Irish physician/spy during the  Napoleonic wars. &quot;H.M.S. Surprise&quot; is the third book in the  series.<br />The most delightful thing about this novel is its extrordinary  attention to detail, particulary in its description of the environment on  an English war ship. When you read this book you feel like you are actually  on the ship experiencing every facet of life from the daily chores of the  crew to the loftier concerns of the captain.<br />A detailed descripton of  naval vessels alone would not be enough to constitute a compelling novel.  O'brian also tells a great story packed with romance, intrigue, combat, and  travel. Despite their many winning characteristics, the protagonists  experience their share of problems and display imperfections. The captain,  for example, never overcomes his bitterness at having been rejected by  Diana Villiers. And despite Maturin's formidable intelligence, he displays  poor judgement which results in dire consequences for him and death for an  innocent child. These flaws make the characters more human and more  compelling. We empathize with their failings and vulnerability as much as  we applaude their victories.<br />If you don't have a sense of history and  don't like to imagine life in another time and place then this series won't  appeal to you. If you enjoy these things, however, you will find  &quot;H.M.S. Surprise a superb novel in many respects.	2000-06-14
US	50774246	RLZ96D3OFV6XA	0140446168	738061198	The Symposium (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	8	11	N	N	It gets better with age	The Symposium is a treatise of love, but it is hardly a romantic or idealistic work. Instead, it is metaphisical and transcendent in nature. This book may offend many people because it contains frank homosexual  references. If you don't like homosexuality, your best bet is to consider  that this book is about the universal quality of love regardless of who  loves whom. In other words, substitute &quot;boy love&quot; for &quot;love  of the opposite sex&quot; if you need to. <br />In Plato's narrative, Socrates  describes the evolution of his ability to love. In the beginning, Socrates  is interested in boy love. He gradually begins to love beautiful boys and  then loves beauty itself. Ultimately, he comes to love &quot;the  beautiful&quot; which is a sublime aspect of beauty that defies  description. Essentially, Socrates begins with a form of love that depends  on his interaction with other individuals. His impulse become more  intellectual in nature, but does not mature until it reaches a level of  transcendence. <br />In this sense, Socrates' development is comparable to  other transcendent figures in the history of thought such as St.  Augustine--who goes from lusting for beautiful slave girls to worshiping  God--or Prince Sidhartha Gotama, who shed his life of priviledge to find  and teach enlightenment.<br />In my experience it is difficult for a young  mind to come to terms with this kind of development. In our youth, we can  appreciate it intellectually but must largely accept it on faith. As we  age, however, our biological and spiritual imperatives do begin to change.  So if any of you were stuck reading this work in college, I suggest you  take a fresh look a few years later.	2000-06-14
US	50774246	R10BC5NHJXLZL0	0805210407	377046405	The Trial	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A quintesential view of the Twentieth Century	&quot;The Trial&quot; ranks with Hana Arendt's study of Fascism as one of the emblematic texts of the Twentieth Century. Like Arendt, Kafka provides us with an illuminating view of the efficient evil of buraucracy.<br />In the novel, Joseph K is an ordinary and unimportant office worker who is arrested and put on trial for a crime that is never identified. After his arrest, K is released and placed under surveillance until his trial. As he continuously encounters the aparatus of state, K realizes that his fate and his identity are entirely defined by someone else....  K...wonders if the movements of a bystander have any meaning at all. Is the person greeting him, expressing alarm at his fate, cheering the process, or doing something completely unrelated to his murder?  Individuals and the legal aparatus in this book are not concerned with justice so much as process process. <br />To anyone who finds this story too byzantine and confusing, just read a few pages of &quot;The Gulag Archipelago&quot; or read the account of a surviving political prisoner of any country. In most cases, the arrested person has no idea of his/her crime and is coersed into accepting a fate that bears no relation to his/her action. The individual in this case is not a human being but an inanimate unit controlled or disposed of by others.<br />Kafka examined the peculiar Twentieth Century phenomenon of depersonalizing and disposing of a human being with no apparent justification. Where some writers have chronicled this from a political and historical perspective, Kafka examined it from a psychological one. He took us into the thoughts and fears of a prisoner of the state.	2000-06-14
US	50774246	RL2BZVUEOCBN2	0374521611	390512967	A Lover's Discourse: Fragments	Books	5	51	54	N	N	Sums it up	Some readers may find this book difficult. Barthes never attempts to give us a uniform narrative about love. Instead, as the title implies, he provides us with fragments--some of which come from literature and some  from his own philisophical musings--of a lover's point of view.  Since  childhood, we are taught to think of love as a singualar entity. Whether it  is God's love, marriage, passion, or patriotism, we are taught to think of  love as a unique, and exclusive prize. But as Barthes' points out, love is  built upon fragments, many of which are mundane. <br />The most compelling  part of &quot;Lover's Discourse&quot; is Barthe's dissection of the phrase,  &quot;I love you&quot;. Drawing upon literary examples and common sense,  Barthes asks us what we mean when we state that we love someone. Do we love  what they do for us? Do we love how they make us feel? Do we love the idea  of them? Are we in love with love itself? This concept is born out by the  protagonist Merseault, in Camus' novel, &quot;A Happy Death&quot;. The  first thing Merseault says to his lover when she wakes up in the morning  is, &quot;hello image&quot;. <br />&quot;Lover's Discourse&quot; extracts love  from ideology and examines it under a microscope. We may be confused by  what we see, and we may not like it, but the view contains more than a  glimmer of reality.	2000-06-08
US	50774246	R1TRWD9MII97WP	0679416781	152918541	The English Patient	Books	5	13	18	N	N	Unique and exciting	I can't imagine who would not enjoy &quot;The English Patient&quot; since the book has all things for all people. It's a love story, that contains historical fiction, espionage, hints of the super natural, hope, tragedy,  and a degree of mystery. <br />The premise of four different people coping  with their damaged lives in an Italian Villa at the end of World War II is  a compelling one. Hanna, a nurse must deal with the loss of her father and  numerous patients. Kip, the engineer who difuses bombs is haunted by the  loss of his mentor and teacher, Lord Suffolk. Caravagio the thief has lost  his ability to steal after having his thumbs cut off by the gestapo. And  Almasy, it seems has lost everything including his lover, his friends, and  his body.<br />Unlike the film version of &quot;The English Patient&quot;,  things in the novel are quirky and never fully resolved. We learn of  Almasy's death before it happens and are exposed to his omnicient  recollections in the mean time. As a result, his death becomes irrelvant  and we are able to focus completely on his narrative of the past.  Similarly, Almasy's affair with Katherine is stranger and darker than the  overt passion between them in the film version. Long after Kip returns to  India and marrys, his mind is still very much in sink with Hanna's. When  Caravagio returns to Canada he is still reminded of Kip years later. In  life and in death an invisible thread connects the characters to each other  even after they have gone their separate ways.<br />I thought the film was as  wonderful as the book but for completely different reasons. The film was a  very compelling drama and love story. But in order for that to happen,  Almasy needed to be more of a cut and dry character. He was a taciturn,  pseudo Nazi with burried emotion and a tragic streak. In the novel, Almazy  was odd humorous and possessed knowledge of almost everything. Instead of  appealing to us as a doomed lover, he teased us and made us wonder whoand  what he really was. In the end his story remained a mystery.<br />I am glad  that this book has not been classified as ethnic literature simply because  the author is of Indian decent. Many readers may disagree with me, but I  think of literature as the ulimate equalizer. A person's prose stands on  its own regardless of who the person is or where they are from. Michael  Ondaatje is a great writer more than he is a great Indian writer.	2000-06-08
US	50774246	R33CEJ5PEW1EJF	0345311485	12581581	On the Beach	Books	4	73	76	N	N	Chilling	&quot;On the Beach&quot; is one of those books that you read for the concept and the story, but not for the quality of the writing. The plot centers around the lives of a few remaining survivors of a nuclear war who  live in Australia. Since the was has taken place in the northern  hemisphere, Australia has largely escaped unscathed--for the moment. But as  prevailing winds approach Australia, they carry lethal doses of radiation  with them. The implication of this is that all of the characters in the  book--in fact everyone in the world--will inevitably be  extinguished.<br />&quot;On the Beach&quot; has a profound psychological  impact because it is devoid of the intense action that usually accompanies  nuclear apocolypse films. The destruction has already occurred elsewhere  and the citizens of Australia are largely going about their business  knowing they will soon die. The fact that their infrastructure has not been  destroyed and that all of their social aparatus is still intact makes their  fate all the more sad and earie.<br />Although this book is set in the Cold  War it's outcome is still relevant and feasible today. The nuclear warheads  generated by the arms race haven't gone away. The former Soviet Union is a  desparate, chaotic place, and as several reviewers pointed out, more small  countries are joining the nuclear club. One could say that Nuclear madness  has merely transformed itself, but its danger certainly hasn't  disappeared.<br />I think everyone should read this book to be reminded of the  possible future we all face.	2000-06-01
US	50774246	R2ZHS2Z5Z940HQ	0393027082	827530852	The Search for Modern China	Books	3	25	35	N	N	But who is doing the "searching", and what is "Modern"?	Jonathan Spence concludes that following the Tian An Men Square crack down in 1989, China's quest for modernization remained unfulfilled. As much as I like and respect Spence's work, this strikes me as more of a moral judgement than an objective historical analysis. <br />I would have enjoyed this book more (and given it a much higher rating) if Spence had distanced himself from his Western preconceptions of what constitutes a modern nation, and instead focussed on the Chinese definition of successful modernization. What elements do the Chinese feel constitute modern China? How much of the West do they feel China must emulate? Which of its traditions can China keep and to what extent? How does the concept of modernization differ between China and the West?<br />Despite its many wonderful qualities, this book has one fatal intellectual flaw: it is more concerned with one Western historian's search for modern China than it is with China's search for modern China. In this respect it is more of a romantic and colorful essay of vast proportions, than an objective scholarly analysis.	2000-05-30
US	50774246	R2ZE98WKFZOFR	0679731725	247754060	The Remains of the Day	Books	4	91	98	N	N	Fascinating and superbly crafted	&quot;The Remains of the Day&quot; is a fascinating study of character, and to some extent of history as well. The novel spans the professional life of an English Butler named Stevens. It guides us from his heyday as a  loyal servant at Darlington Hall to his twilight years as a curio for the  estate's new American owner. Steven's is a man of impeccable loyalty and  stubbornness. While these qualities ensure Stevens' professional survival,  they also provide his life with tragic limitations.<br />In some parts of the  book, Stevens' loyalty is admirable albeit misdirected. For example,  Stevens is unable to acknowledge his father's infirmity until Lord  Darlington brings it to his attention. He is also unable to shed his  professional scales just long enough to have a meaningful interaction with  the woman he loves. At the end of the book, Stevens returns to Darlington  Hall from a short trip to the country and resolves to master the sort of  &quot;bantering&quot; that his American employer requires. All of these  factors make Steven's a humorous caricature, but Ishiguro did not write  this book merely to make fun of English butlers. <br />The real issue lurking  in the depths of this book centers on fascism and conformity. Stevens'  master, Lord Darlington has ties to the British fascist leader Sir Oswald  Mosley, and is later denounced and disgraced for that reason. Blind loyalty  prevents Stevens from acknowledging the error of Lord Darlington's  conviction, even after he fires all the Jewish members of his staff. Long  after Lord Darlington's death, when his estate has been purchased by a  wealthy American, Stevens still feels unquestioning loyalty to the master.  It costs him his relationship with the woman he loves, and makes us rather  pity his blindness.<br />Stevens is in fact the prototypical conformist. His  endless loyalty comes not so much from conviction but from protocol and  habit. It is adaptable and transferable to any form of authority be it a  fascist aristocrat or an American business man. Much like the fascists of  Western Europe, Stevens is still quite useful to have around even when the  old order passes and the new one takes over. Obedient, passionless, and  blind to the injustices around him--Steven's morality is an open standard  that can be retrofitted for any authority.<br />After reading this book, I  recommend that you check out Bernardo Bertolucci's film &quot;Il  Conformist&quot;. Bertolucci explores the same sort of mindset albeit from  a different perspective.	2000-05-26
US	50774246	R1WMOB3I4IPRC9	0486280586	930167934	King Lear (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	18	21	N	N	Nothing will come of nothing	\\"Nothing will come of nothing\\" the fatal line Lear utters to Cordelia sums up the entire play. The wizened king believes he is urging Cordelia not to refrain from expressing her love for him when in fact he is unwittingly  prompting her to use the same insincere flattery as her sisters. When  Cordelia refuses to acquiesce to Lear's wishes, he banishes her from the  kingdom and divides it among her nefarious sisters Goneril and Reagan. In  doing this Lear accepts their empty flattery instead of Cordelia's austere  profession of paternal love. Goneril and Reagan quickly betray Lear and  then turn against each other. Thus Lear's preference for empty flattery  (nothing) destroys his authority and embroils his kingdom in civil strife  (generates nothing).<br />This theme runs like a thread through other parts of  the play. Gloucester's blindness toward the nature of his sons results in  his literal blindness later in the play. Metaphorical blindness generates  physical blindness (nothing comes of nothing). Similarly, after Edgar is  banished he avoids further harm by shedding his identity and disguising  himself as a vagrant. In the new order of things eliminating one's status  results in no harm (another version of nothing coming from nothing).<br />The  motif of nothing coming from nothing has psychological and political  ramifications for the play. From a psychological point of view Lear fails  to realize that the type of adulating love he wants from Cordelia no longer  exists because Cordelia is no longer a child. Her refusal to flatter Lear  is, in a sense, an act of adolescent rebellion. Lear's failure to recognize  the fact that Cordelia still loves him but not with the totality of a child  proves to be his undoing. From a political point of view the fact that Lear  divides his kingdom on the basis of protocol (who is the most flattering)  instead of reality (whose words can he really trust) also proves to be his  undoing. The fact that Lear sees what he wants to see instead of what he  should see is the fulcrum of destruction throughout the play.<br />It is  interesting to note that \\"King Lear\\" was staged barely one generation after  England endured a bitter war of succession (The War of the Roses). The  sight of Lear proclaiming his intention to divide his kingdom must have  shocked contemporary audiences in the same manner that a play about  appeasing fascists might disturb us today.see instead of what he  should see is the fulcrum of destruction throughout the play.<br />It is  interesting to note that \\"King Lear\\" was staged barely one generation after  England endured a bitter war of succession (The War of the Roses). The  sight of Lear proclaiming his intention to divide his kingdom must have  shocked contemporary audiences in the same manner that a play about  appeasing fascists might disturb us today.	2000-05-25
US	50774246	R2RH5QMT1ELW6V	014044503X	451333365	The Sorrows of Young Werther (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	A Social Interpretation	It may be difficult for contemporary readers to understand why, after reading \\"The Sufferings of Young Werther\\", so many young German men of Goethe's time killed themselves.  Not only did they kill themselves but  also they dressed in the same clothing that Werther wears when he takes his  own life. Clearly they identified with Werther and it is incumbent upon us  to understand why.<br />For those of you who are not familiar with the story,  Werther is a youthful German gentleman at the dawn of his civil service  career. Unlike his contemporaries, Werther is awkward, socially clumsy, and  extremely sensitive. He is also desperately in love with a woman named  Charlotte (Lotte) whose feelings toward Werther are not mutual. After Lotte  rejects him, Werther goes to a party where he is publicly humiliated. This  being more than Werther can bear, he returns home and kills himself with a  pistol.<br />Werther's suicide is more than a response to Lotte's rejection.  In a sense it is a disavowal of the society he lives in. Werther's emotions  and sensitivity make him something of an oddball among his peers who  ultimately scorn and reject him. At the end of the story, Werther is not  only heart-broken but also isolated.<br />Some reviewers have drawn  interesting comparisons between Werther and other romantic heroes such as  Heathcliffe. The comparison that interests me the most is the one between  Werther and Pechorin, the notorious protagonist of Lermantov's \\"A Hero of  Our Times\\". Unlike Werther, Pechorin is a man of action who isn't rejected  by women or society but who ultimately rejects them. Pechorin does not kill  himself directly, but he leads a life-style, replete with adventures and  duels that ultimately results in his destruction. Both characters  essentially feel that they have no place in the world they live in and each  orchestrates his own destruction.<br />In a sense, Werther and company are  predecessors of existentialist anti-heroes such as Merseault, the taciturn  narrator in \\"The Stranger\\". They may also be the precursors of more  contemporary figures such as Jim Morrison, Janice Joplyn and Kurt Kobein.  If literature reveals a trend of alienation and self-annihilation in the  western world during the past two hundred years, then we ought to ask  ourselves why it occurs. Perhaps as the world grows more organized,  technical, and full of protocol it requires an increasingly larger degree  of conformity. Cooperation and team-work demand the removal of individual  impulses. If one can't love or can't act outside of public requirements  then one has few alternatives left. When critics complained to Goethe about  the copycat Werther suicides, he responded that if the commercial system  killed so many young men, then couldn't Werther have a few. Suicide, like  so many other extreme acts of destruction, isn't the solution to rejection,  loss, and alienation, but it is certainly a symptom that is difficult to  ignore.	2000-05-25
US	50774246	R14STOSKBP2NLV	0440508649	11758110	Rush Limbaugh Is a Big Fat Idiot: And Other Observations	Books	5	102	171	N	N	What goes around comes around	Finally, a book that--ahem--deflates Rush Limbaugh. Franklin's expose is as incisive as it is wildly funny. It exposes much of Rush's hypocracy including the fact that he:<br />1. Was on welfare.<br />2. Avoided fighting in  Vietnam because of a problem with hair on his posterior.<br />3. Didn't  work.<br />4. Has received hand-outs all his life.<br />5. Is only capable of  coping with a controlled audience but can't handle spontaneous  questions.<br />It also exposes many of the lies and demagogery that  constitute Rush's discources.<br />Most people ignore Rush Limbaugh because  they consider him to be a bombastic idiot. But many ignored Hitler for the  same reason which caused the world to suffer enormous conequences. I think  we all owe Al Frankin a debt, not only for entertaining us, but also for  deflating a bloated presense on the fascist landscape. It's nice when the  people who make a career out of attacking people finally find themselves  under the gun.	2000-05-25
US	50774246	R1XAA5CV3ET9N4	0380002450	110871072	The Awakening	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Ruthlessly perceptive	&quot;The Awakening&quot; is ruthless in its complete exposure of social oppression and in its avoidance of hypocrisy. Although the novel was written more than one hundred years ago, most if not all of its themes are  relevant today.<br />&quot;The Awakening&quot; examines both women's social  position and the perception of that position from the point of view of both  genders. When Robert makes his first amorous overtures to Edna Pontellier a  mutual friend warns him to act carefully because Edna will not behave in  the same manner as other women. She is warning Robert, that Edna will  respond to him in an independent and emotional fashion instead of playing  the role dictated to her by society. This becomes clear when Robert returns  from his self-imposed exile and informs Edna that he wants to ask her  husband's permission to share her. Edna mocks this proposal and tells  Robert that her life and her feelings are hers alone to give not her  husband's.  Unfortunately, Robert is unable to love Edna in a manner that  is not socially sanctified. In fact, Robert prefers the absurdity of  sharing Edna with her husband to having Edna give herself to him of her own  volition. To Robert the choice must still be the husband's not Edna's. His  affection for Edna is both shallow and inextricably conditioned by social  parameters.<br />The most difficult part of the novel is Edna's decision to  commit suicide, knowing she will leave her children behind. From an  emotional perspective this is probably difficult for any reader to endure.  But it accurately conveys Edna's plight. No man and very few women are  capable of accepting Edna on her own terms. They cannot even conceive of  her as an independent person so much as an eccentric.<br />Edna's suicide is  not meant to promote suicide as a means of female social emancipation.  Instead, it demonstrates that if a woman really wants to escape the  pervasive restrictions imposed on her by men, she has few, if any,  alternatives.While the legal and social status of women has improved  considerably in the developed world, I wonder to what extent men really  view them independently of social convention? And in the end, don't the men  get a raw deal in this novel? Edna's husband is never able to grasp who she  is. Her lover does not even know whom he loves or why? Most of the men in  \\"The Awakening\\" are in love with the perception of a woman more than with  the woman herself. I feel sorry for them.	2000-05-24
US	50774246	R2Q0JOLVZLZ7F1	0871132583	109165277	The Tremor of Forgery (Highsmith, Patricia)	Books	5	30	32	N	N	Subtle and superbly written, but won't appeal to everyone	&quot;The Tremor of Forgery&quot; is a superb novel, but it may not be for everybody. If you are in the mood for suspense and clarity, then you probably won't enjoy this book. If you prefer something more subtle,  psychological, and mood-oriented then I recommend it.<br />&quot;The Tremor of  Forgery&quot; is sort of a mystery. It lacks the action and denouement of  typical mysteries but definitely contains its share of questions and  intrigue. In this case, though the mystery doesn't revolve around questions  of guilt (who done it) but around character, environment, and  identity.<br />Howard Ingram is an American writer who has been hired to go to  Tunisia and write a screenplay. A number of mysterious events destroy his  project but he decides to stay on and write a novel. His life in Tunisia  essentially revolves around two people of opposite mindsets. Ingram's  middle-aged neighbor, Adams is the quintessential naive, optimist and  ideologue. He constantly speaks of &quot;our way of life&quot; (which earns  him the nickname &quot;OWL&quot;) and broadcasts pro-American propaganda to  the Soviet Union. Despite living in Tunisia with apparent ease, Adams  firmly retains his American identity. Jensen, on the other hand, is a  Danish Artist and a homosexual who dislikes Tunisia, but in many ways  appears to have gone native. He lives in an Arab section of town with  simple clothes and few possessions. Jensen occasionally hires boys for sex,  but his only real love appears to be his friendship with Ingram and his  affection for his dog.<br />In the course of preventing a burglary in his  bungalow, Ingram kills--or thinks he's killed--an Arab thief. The corpse  (if in fact it is a corpse) disappears and Ingram is left to cope with the  question of his crime. When Adams deduces what has occurred he pressures  Ingram to come to terms with his conscience. Jensen, by contrasts, suggests  that Ingram forget about the incident and points out that killing a thief  is probablya common occurrence in Tunisia.<br />Soon Ingram must ask himself  who he is and who he has become. Does Ingram retain an inherent set of  Western values regardless of where he is, or does he adopt the morality of  his environment? While questioning his identity, Ingram must also decide  whether or not to marry his girl friend. And in an odd twist, Ingram's  crisis parallels that of the hero in his novel.<br />For many readers the  frustrating part of this novel is that nothing is ever resolved. At the end  of the novel, Ingram does not comes to terms with his morality or identity,  he never passes judgement on Jensen or Adams, and he enters into a  relationship that promises trouble. We never learn the fate of the thief or  whether Ingram even killed him. In today's shallow television culture, we  often crave a definite ending in a story, but the beauty of this novel is  that it provides the opposite. The people, places, and morality in this  novel are defined to an extent but never completely. This creates a richer  and more realistic story.<br />Highsmith also captures the flavor of third  world travel perfectly. Anyone who has gone to a third world country and  decided to stay on for awhile will feel at home in this book. The food, the  people, the sickness, the ratty apartments, and then the odd and  exhilarating feeling of departure all ring true. Like a great painter,  Highsmith is more interested in the mood she evokes than in the technical  components of her composition. And in this regard, she is one of the great  masters of the last century.	2000-05-24
US	50774246	R1M6TG2IN3NMUC	0813332893	568367162	001: The Gulag Archipelago, 1918-1956: An Experiment in Literary Investigation (Volume One)	Books	5	30	33	N	N	Bombastic Brilliant Unforgetable	What ever faults &quot;Gulag Archipelago&quot; may have, it is a monumental and important work. For anyone who does not know the meaning of the title, &quot;Gulag&quot; is the Russian word for prison, and an  archipelago is, of course, a chain of islands. The idea behind this is that  the Soviet concentration camp system under Lenin and Stalin were like an  island of prisons spread all over the Soviet Union. <br />The content of  &quot;Gulag Archipelago&quot; is quite extraordinary. Solzhenitsyn includes  countless anecdotes of prisoners and their families in various phases of  arrest, interrogation, imprisonment, slave labor, death, or release. He  buttresses these stories with statistics, and with his own personal  narrative of his years in the Gulag. The information in this book is simply  staggering, not only for the cruelty and evil it describes but also the  folly. The Soviet government murdered indiscriminately across all lines of  race, class, and gender. In many cases, it murdered the most brilliant and  productive members of its society--the very people who could have built it  into something great.<br />Many people take umbrage with Solzhenitsyn's style,  which involves a lot of ranting and run-on footnotes. Personally, I find  his narrative interesting and invigorating. Solzhenitsyn's narrative is  vigorous, untrammeled and loaded with sarcasm. While many find this  gimmicky or uncultured, it helped buoy me through the unbearable sadness of  the book's subject matter.<br />Obviously this book isn't for everybody and it  requires a considerable degree of fortitude to get through it. But I think  it is essential in all our lives to read this book or one similar to it.	2000-05-23
US	50774246	R3KZPKTOSKN6P5	0553272586	488633293	Farewell to Manzanar: A True Story of Japanese American Experience During and  After the World War II Internment	Books	5	174	185	N	N	A very important book	I have been thinking about this book more and more ever since I saw the rascist, effusive film &quot;Snow Falling on Cedars&quot;. My big gripe with that film was that it made the Japanese Americans look so weak and  helpless without white people to rescue them from their predicament. <br />For  those of you who disagreed with my review of that film, I strongly urge you  to read (or re-read) &quot;Farwell to Manzanar&quot;. This is a frank,  accurate, and at times heart-breaking, true story of a Japanese family's  internment in the camps. The narrative contains several different threads  including:<br />1. The legal and economic injustice done to the author's  family and thousands of other Japanese Americans.<br />2. The day to day life  and survival requirements in the camps.<br />3. The difficulty of coping with  generational differences within an interned Japanese-American family.<br />4.  The difficulties and predjudices that Japanese Americans had to overcome in  order to rebuild their lives after they were released.<br />Ms.  Wakatsuki-Houston's memoir is simple and compelling. She describes her  childhood experiences from the objective and mature perspective of an  adult, a wife, and a mother. But despite the passage of time her narrative  still conveys a great deal of pain and difficulty in coming to terms with  her childhood internment at Manzanar.<br />The most interesting part of the  book for me was how the author's family attempted to rebuild their lives  after the U.S. government robbed and humiliated them. The father  immediately started a farming venture whose success was only undermined by  unsually adverse environmental conditions. One of the sons served in the  military and then resumed the family's fishing business. And the author  herself challenged the pedjudiced administration of her highshool by  becoming prom queen despite their attempts to thwart her. <br />Contrary to  the wishful thinking of &quot;Snow Falling on Cedars&quot;, the whitepeople in this book do not come back and redeem themselves. They do not  rescue the people they victimized, and they do not receive bows from them.  No woman begs the white man for permission to put her arms around him.  <br />The people in this memoir endure their mistreatment with strength and  dignity. When they are released from the camps, they rebuild their lives on  their own without assistance, sentimentality or self-pity.<br />I recommend  this book to anyone who wants to learn about a shameful period in American  history, and who wants to see how people who are treated unjustly can still  survive and move on. But most of all, I recommend this book to people who  were taken with the Hollywood version of what happened to Japanese  Americans in this country during World War II.	2000-05-22
US	50774246	R3KIBZCRUTFWF2	0345406516	18655254	The Aguero Sisters (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Beautifully written and superbly told story	More than a year ago, my father pulled a book from his shelf and read the first chapter aloud to me. The book was &quot;The Aguero Sisters&quot; and the chapter was completely captivating in its richness of language, its  evocative prose, and in the tremendous curiosity it instilled in me about  what why certain events occurred and what would happen next. I went on to  read the book and absolutely loved it.<br />&quot;The Aguero Sisters&quot; is  several stories interwoven into one. It is a love story, and a mystery of  sorts. It is a story of generation and cultural differences and of the  strange emotional contradictions felt between siblings. Most importantly,  it is a story with rhythm, energy, and touches of dark humor. <br />There are  so many different reasons why people should read this book and none of them  are political. Of course it deals with Cuban politics, but it does so in an  irreverent and humorous fashion. The most political characters in this book  appear to be caricatures while the least political ones are the most  compelling. <br />I have read books with similar themes such as &quot;The  Woman Warrior&quot;, and &quot;The Joy Luck Club&quot;. While I learned a  lot from these works and appreciated their content, it seemed that their  strengths rested more on issues pertaining to ethnicity, gender,  immigration, and generation differences than on any literary merit.  &quot;The Aguero Sisters&quot; touches upon similar issues, but it also  stands alone as a superb novel. I hope that in the future this book will be  compared to some of the finest novels of the Twentieth Century, instead of  merely being categorized as &quot;ethnic literature&quot;.	2000-05-22
US	50774246	R1ASLNE9YDROMT	0684848783	223960215	'Tis: A Memoir	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A pleasant sequel to Angela's Ashes	&quot;T'is&quot; receives the neutral three star rating from me. I enjoyed it very much and found it to be a humorous, informative sequel to &quot;Angela's Ashes&quot;. Unfortunately, &quot;T'is&quot; lacked the raw  literary power of its predecessor. Where &quot;Angela's Ashes&quot; was as  monumental as biographies can be, &quot;T'is&quot; read more like a  collection of transcripts of various stories that McCourt told to friends  and dinner guests.<br />This pecadillo aside, I loved the humor in  &quot;T'is&quot; and especially it's unique language(interfere with  myself). It was also interesting to see how a newcomer like McCourt  survived and succeeded in this country and how ordinary Americans appeared  to him then.<br />I was a little bit dissapointed by his recounting of the  time he had sex with a &quot;prostitute&quot; in the former concentration  camp of dachau. It seemed strange that McCourt, who experienced poverty and  starvation in his childhood, did not understand that this woman--a World  War II survivor and refugee--was selling her body out of utter desparation.  But I can't fault McCourt for honestly recounting the moral judgement he  had as a young service man.<br />While &quot;T'is&quot; is dwarfed by the  literary accomplishments of &quot;Angela's Ashes&quot;, it is still a great  read and I recommend it.	2000-05-19
US	50774246	R1553UDHRM0FA6	080857745X	841295270	Antigone (Greek Tragedy in New Translations)	Books	5	63	80	N	N	The Americanizing of Greek Tradgedy	American educators frequently treat &quot;Antigone&quot; as one of the more accessable classics that can be easily digested and understood by their students. Usually this is because those pedagogues reduce Antigone to  a simple matter of conflict between the individual and the state. Debates  are arranged between students, and most of them sympathize with the  individual, while a few justify the exigencies of the state. Although the  individual (represented by Antigone) is at odds with the state (personified  by Creon), to focus on that specific conflict is to fundamentally  misunderstand the play.<br />Sophocles was not interested in who was in  conflict with whom as much as he was interested in the nature of conflict  itself. The showdown between Antigone and Creon is unavoidable because each  is justified--even required--to perform the actions that ensue. In Ancient  Greek society almost every facet of life fell under the domain of one or  more of the gods. The gods of the family require Anigone to remove the body  of her brother from its humiliating public exposure on the city walls. On  the other hand, the gods of the state require Creon to punish traitors and  to rigorously uphold the law. Each party is invested with a compelling  moral duty and each is acting on behalf of a culturally sanctioned  institution (family, state). In this sense, the conflict between Antigone  and Creon isn't one between individual and state but between justifiable  moral imperitives.<br />I can understand why educators, particularly in the  U.S., focus on issues of individual and state in &quot;Antigone&quot;. It's  easy to grasp and it's as contemporary as arguments about abortion or the  NRA. But I think students would gain a deeper understanding of the play and  of their own lives if educators took it one step further and talked about  the play's depiction of inevitable, mutually justifiable conflict. This is  especially crucial in today's world where conflicts of the worse sortare  perpetuated by each party's fundamental sense of legitimacy and  justification.	2000-05-18
US	50774246	R1KM2T8I622CI	068480137X	705619047	D Day: June 6, 1944: The Climactic Battle of World War II	Books	3	16	25	N	N	Guilty Pleasure	I enjoyed this book very much despite the sins of its historiography. Like many readers I was drawn to this book after seeing &quot;Saving Private Ryan&quot;. As a trained historian, I quickly noted many of Ambrose's  flaws. The book was highly predjudiced (America great, Britain laughable,  all others inferior)and--like much military history--it often read like a  propaganda piece. <br />Still, I loved reading it and may read it again.  Ambrose may not be a world class historian but he is a marvelous story  teller and his narrative kept me in thrall. Despite ambrose's biases and  omissions, I was deeply impressed by the amount of content and detail he  produced. <br />I recommend this book for anyone who is interested in military  history or who simply wants a good read. However, I would warn anyone who  wants to learn about D-Day, World War II, or military history in general,  to read this book carefully. Filter out as much of the nonsense as possible  and absorb the gems that Ambrose provides. Cornelius Ryan's &quot;The  Longest Day&quot;, and any books by John Keegan, or T. N. Dupey would make  a marvelous (and more intelligent) supplement to this one. Ah, but I  enjoyed this book. Intellectually speaking it truly was a guilty pleasure.	2000-05-18
US	50774246	R3PP3DZJPB9AD8	038531387X	40474853	Deliverance (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Squeal like a pig, boy!	&quot;Deliverance&quot; is as tough, gritty, and eloquent as any of Dickey's poems. In this novel, Dickey displays his talents as an observer, and as a story teller. Despite the macho, outdoor aesthetic that permeates  much of the book, there is a surprising degree of psychology and subtlety  involved.<br />The pace of &quot;Deliverance&quot; reminds me of some of  Kubrik's finer films (2001, The Shining, Full Metal Jacket). As in many of  Kubrik's works, &quot;Deliverance&quot; begins with a slow buildup which  takes place in a normal environment. This buid up not only creates the  tension for the action to follow, but also paves its psychological  foundation. In the beginning of &quot;Deliverance&quot; we sense many  things about it's mundane protagonist--an ordinary man who is inadvertantly  called upon to perform under extaordinary circumstances. <br />Ed Gentry is a  typical office worker, family man, and friend. But in a few critical scenes  such as the one in which he makes love to his wife but imagines the tiger  like eyes of a model he is attracted to, we sense something different. The  moment of sexual fantasy--a normal component of much marital sex--evokes a  primacy and animal nature that is universal to most men. It is an abstract  idea and only a slight hint of things to come. The primal instinct would  probably remain concealed in Ed Gentry if extraordinary circumstances did  not require it to surface.<br />His friend Lewis (aptly played by Burt  Reynolds in the film), on the other hand is the opposite type of person.  One of those men you encounter sooner or later in a bar, or neighborhood  PTA meeting, Lewis is a loud, and vocal promoter of the animal within. But  as irony would have it, it is Ed and not Lewis who displays the killer  instinct when it is most needed.<br />Dickey also displays tremendous  psychological insite during the critical rape scene. His description of the  victim, his friend who watches helplessly, and his irreverent savior are  all too real.<br />In addition to Dickey's psychological insite, I enjoyed his  description of the canoe trip down the river, which was almost certainly  based on direct experience. <br />Most of all, I loved the novel's irony. Four  men take a trip down one of the last virgin rivers to experience life in  the wild. They get what they came there for.	2000-05-15
US	50774246	RFV1LYGT0GHXM	0553212788	604725626	The Prince (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	65	73	N	N	Cynic, Realist, Patriot	&quot;The Prince&quot; is one of the view books from college that I've actually kept. It is splendid reading on several levels. First, one appreciates Machiavelli as a problem solver. Italy is divided; what is the  most practical and efficient means for a wise prince to consolidate his  power and unify it? But one also appreciates Machiavelli as a person. A  florentine intellectual banished to the countryside--it wouldn't be a bad  life for some of us, but to him it must have been torture.<br />I was once  asked whether Machiavelli was a cynic, a realist, or a patriot, and I  believe the correct answer is all three. Much of Machiavelli's advice  contains an under current of cynicism and ruthlessness, and this has  undoubtedly come to be the dominant portion of his reputation. One of the  terms for devil, &quot;Old Nick&quot; is derived from Machiavelli. When one  speaks of destroying an enemy or performing a ruthless, sneaky act, that  person is likely to be called &quot;machiavellian&quot;. But Machiavelli's  advice was as realistic as one could get in those times. This was an era  when despots and mercenaries ruled by force and assasination. It was a time  when popes fathered children and carved out little principalities for  themselves. One was not going to remain in power, much less get ahead of  one's enemies by being virtuous. It isn't that Machiavelli despised virtue  so much as he realized how useless it was in the political context of the  times. But in the end Machiavelli was also an idealist. He dreamed of a  united Italy under a strong (and practical) prince. When he dedicated his  treatise to Rodorigo Borgia, he did so in the hopes that he might be the  man to perform such a task.<br />This book provides timeless practical advice  for anyone who wishes to succeed in a hostile, divisive environment. It  also illuminates the peculiar political circumstances of Renaissance Italy.	2000-03-29
US	50774246	R2W71FD15YYV1Z	0684804433	296077082	Look Homeward, Angel	Books	5	108	112	N	N	A prose poem	&quot;Look Homeward Angel&quot; is undeniably a young man's story and as such, I wonder if it appeals to men more than it does to women. It's hard to imagine how the novel's countless aches and awkward blunders would fail  to resonate with any man's youthful recollections. When readers in Woolfe's  hometown castigated him for his venial characterization of the people he  grew up with, Woolfe pointed out that none of his characters represented  any one particular person. Instead, their qualities were so real and so  vivid that readers felt they instantly recognized them. And so it was with  me, although I was born decades after Woolfe's death and raised in a  different part of the country. The dialog, drama, and emotional  undercurrents of &quot;Look Homeward Angel&quot; were strangely and  overwhelmingly recognizable. This is the genius of Woolfe.<br />My favorite  parts of the novel vary considerably. I love the prose poem in the very  beginning of the book. I also love the protagonist's descriptions of  seemingly ordinary activities such as walking through a pasture on a fall  evening. Such passages have the unnerving quality of being accessible yet  somehow ineffable. A part of you is walking through the field with Eugene  Gant taking in the cold wind, the smells of smoke and cow manure under the  grim sky. Another part of you is asking why that experience feels so real  and immediate even though you've never had it before.<br />Woolfe took a  microscope to ordinary people and somehow rendered them great. He did not  accord them the stature of epoch heroes or contemporary celebrities.  Instead, he rendered their feelings and actions as immediate as their  surroundings. You probably would not want to be any of the people in  &quot;Look Homeward Angel&quot; and you might not even like them that much.  But you will come away from the book with the sense of knowing those people  intimately. For this reason, it is impossible to finish &quot;Look Homeward  Angel&quot;without a having profound emotional response.	2000-03-24
US	50774246	R2QJ5ULBZ8RRDV	0679781587	823326041	Memoirs of a Geisha: A Novel	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Thoroughly researched and very imaginative	I began &quot;Memoirs of a Geisha&quot; with many reservations. I was certain that this would be another Western man's tepid little fantasy about a specific facet of Asian culture. But happily, Arthur Golden surprised and delighted me.<br />&quot;Memoirs of a Geisha&quot; is an imaginative, superbly  researched, and well-written book. From the opening pages I was quite  convinced that I was reading an actual Geisha's autobiography. The details  of the geisha's life were compelling and quite believable. From what I  understand, Golding performed quality assurance tests on his original  manuscript by running it past several Geishas whom he had previously  interviewed. Apparently, they faulted so much of the original manuscript  that Golding rewrote the entire book. I applaud his persistence and  integrity to that end.<br />The book does have its imperfections. For one  thing, I found the protagonist's constant use of similes to be a bit  superficial and fake. But who knows, perhaps Geishas used this sort of  lexicon out of habit. I also found the story's resolution a little  disappointing. It capped a superbly written story off with a Hollywood  cliché and detracted a bit from the believability of the characters. But  even with these flaws the plot was still superb.<br />I highly recommend this  book for its imagination and attention to historical accuracy. Among other  things it tears down a lot of Western stereotypes of Geishas as  prostitutes. Contrary to some complaints that I've heard, very little of  this book is sexual in nature.	2000-03-16
US	50774246	R2SWKM7TEPOM9Y	0679742301	863579586	Ripley Under Ground	Books	5	53	58	N	N	The artistic killer and his bourgeois victims	&quot;Ripley Under Ground&quot; is the first book in the Ripley series to follow the talented Mr. Ripley. It establishes Tom Ripley as a married man living on a French estate and explains much of his transition from  parasitic murderer to suave psychopath. This novel is possibly the most  psychological one in the Ripley series since it endows Ripley with a  tremendous artistic sensibility that often validates his homicidal  choices.<br />In this novel, Ripley has evolved from a sponger and a drifter  to a country gentleman. In true aristocratic fashion, he shuns professional  life and devotes his energy to painting, gardening, language study,  and--well--forgery. Ripley plays a pivotal role in setting up a forgery  ring in England that produces the work of a dead painter whom the world  believes is still alive. Unfortunately, an art aficionado discovers some of  the forgeries and begins an investigation that threatens to expose the  ring.  In an effort to validate the forgeries, Ripley disguises himself as  the dead painter and holds a press conference. The investigator attends the  conference but remains unconvinced. As a result, Ripley (in his own guise)  invites him to his estate and subsequently murders him. This puts Ripley in  an ironic predicament since the police approach him not only in search of  the missing investigator, but also in search of the dead painter who,  thanks to Ripley's impersonation, they believe is still alive. To  complicate matters more, the forger himself appears at Ripley's estate in a  state of agitation ready to confess his crime to the world. Somehow Ripley  must avoid incrimination, subdue the distraught forger, and prevent the  police from searching for the dead painter whom he inadvertently brought  back to life.<br />The most fascinating aspect of this novel is the artistic  sensibility that seems to govern Ripley's homicidal choices. For example,  the investigator whom Ripley murders is more concerned with commercial  authenticity than artistic value. He ignores Ripley's argument that the  successful forger is as great as the artist he imitates and retorts that  building a reputation on forgery is like stealing another person's bank  account. When Ripley murders him, one wonders if he does so out of artistic  revolt rather than self-preservation. This idea is reinforced by Ripley's  refusal to kill the forger even after the forger attempts to murder him.  Despite the enormous danger posed by the forger, Ripley is affectionate and  nurturing toward him.<br />Is this thriller really an assault on middle class  values? I think so. Ripley the art connoisseur loves his forged paintings  and his genuine ones equally. Unlike the investigator, he feels no need to  distinguish between them as long as they are of the same aesthetic caliber.  While Ripley despises the business concerns of his forgery partners, he  admires the forger who paints for passion rather than profit.<br />Equally as  interesting is the attitude of Ripley's wife. Ripley confesses his murder  to her and indicates that she knew of his homicidal past even before  marrying him. He frequently alludes to her amoral tendencies which, no  doubt, are quite compatible with his own.<br />I recommend &quot;Ripley Under  Ground&quot; as a thriller, a psychological study, and a novel of ideas.	2000-03-08
US	50774246	RNW9GBJQKDA9T	0684800713	781452863	The Sun Also Rises	Books	4	4	6	N	N	The Hemmingway Question	It seems that Hemmingway readers are divided into two distinct camps. There are those who adore Hemmingway for literary and life-style reasons and those who abhor his writing altogether. Whenever I present my mild  appreciation of Hemmingway to members of either extreme, they become irate.  The former, tell me he's a genius, while the latter argue that  a child  could write like Hemmingway. Frankly, they are both wrong.<br />&quot;The Sun  Also Rises&quot; contains much of the fuel that Hemmingway haters consume.  The writing is quite simple and much of the dialog is strained and even a  bit macho. The novel, in their opinion, could be construed as a hundred  plus page promotion of the Hemmingway life style. It's got travel,  brawling, love, conflict, fishing, bullfighting, and a lots of fun  sportsman line stuff. It contains a Hemmingway motif that I've never really  liked, namely discourse of the glamorous yet victimized war hero.  <br />Hemmingway lovers will counter these arguments by pointing out that  simplicity in writing and dialog is not a bad thing, especially when the  author uses it as self-consciously as Hemmingway does. True, the language  is a bit strained and macho, but the story is, after all, narrated by an  adventurous and heartbroken World War I veteran. I can't imagine this  person and his expatriate colleagues engaging in the subtle, serpentine  conversations found in a Henry James novel. As for the travel, the  bullfighting, and the other activities that we have come to associate with  the Hemmingway lifestyle-so what? It's a great travelogue among other  things.<br />I guess my own opinion is largely in favor of Hemmingway although  I agree with a lot of his critics. Hemmingway is a great story teller and  &quot;Sun Also Rises&quot; is an exceptionally good story. Hemmingway's  language is imperfect but certainly adequate. Ultimately, I read literature  to be transformed to another place or state of mind and Hemmingway  certainly accomplishesthat for me.<br />To Hemmingway's critics, I would  argue that one does not have to be subtle, nor write a novel of ideas to be  a great author. To his proponents I would also argue that the man is a good  writer, a great story teller, and a fascinating character in his own right,  but certainly not a genius.<br />I recommend &quot;The Sun Also Rises&quot; to  anyone interested in a good story, a unique writing style, and an  interesting portrayal of the so called &quot;lost generation&quot;.	2000-02-16
US	50774246	R2SK2V3MZ0TQVU	0140185003	179354174	The Quiet American (Penguin Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	5	155	168	N	N	As superbly written as it is insightful	Only the great Graham Greene could have written a story that is as wry and understated as it is prophetic. &quot;The Quiet American&quot; captures several different attitudes during Vietnam's transition from French  colonial occupation to American &quot;involvement&quot;. In this novel the  French do what they do best, namely they undertake a hopeless struggle and  experience painful defeat. The Americans enter the scene with grandiose  plans, tons of money, and utterly no sense of reality. The Vietnamese are,  of course, hard-edged and practical, while the lone Englishman-God bless  him-is the epitome of dying yet dignified colonialism.<br />For those of you  who haven't read the book, its both an odd love story and a metaphor for  American involvement in Vietnam. The hero, Fowler is a washed up, middle  aged, English war correspondent, content with his opium pipe and his  Vietnamese mistress, Phuong. His world is gradually disrupted by the  arrival of an American covert operative named Pyle who is both a zealous  ideologue and a naïve optimist. Things get complicated when Pyle steals  Phuong away from Fowler, yet attempts to remain friends with him. The  normally indifferent Fowler soon becomes morally repulsed by Pyle's  seemingly well intended terrorist activities, and gradually becomes  politically involved. By the time Fowler helps to engineer Pyle's murder it  is unclear even to him whether he is doing so to help the Vietnamese people  or to win Phuong back.<br />&quot;The Quite American&quot; explores several  different concepts. Like many of Greene's novels and short stories it  examines the peculiar morality of love. Fowler and Phuong form a strange  symbiosis. Fowler is estranged from is English wife, and is old enough to  be Phuong's father. His affection for her is unabashedly sexual and  certainly not made for day time TV in the U.S. Phuong's attachment to both  Fowler and Pyle is based more on practical reasons than on love. Greene  never passes judgement any of the trio. And when Fowler wins Phuong back in  the end, he is left-like so many of us-with a lingering doubt about his  motives and actions.<br />Equally interesting is Greene's exploration of the  politics of Southeast Asia in the 1950s and particularly, the shifting  balance of power from European colonialism to American military and  economic involvement. Pyle, who is probably based on the real life American  operative, Landsdale devoutly worships the books of an intellectual whose  thinking bears strong resemblance to that of George Kennan. As the French  wrap up their losing streak, the Americans enter the scene with blind  stupidity, you can't help but cringe at disaster to come.<br />I loved this  book for its intelligent grasp of love and politics. Like many of Greene's  other works, this one contains a genius for characterization.	2000-02-14
US	50774246	R1LGWDPLHT8JI8	0690019114	964580371	The Boy Who Followed Ripley	Books	4	46	50	N	N	Fascinating and somewhat flawed	&quot;The Boy who Followed Ripley&quot; is a bit of a mixed bag. The premise of a compassionate, protective Ripley is certainly fascinating. Ripley attempts to protect an affluent young murderer by sheltering him  from kidnappers, his family , but most importantly of all from his  impulsive guilty conscience. True to her subtlety and skill, Highsmith does  not portray Ripley in a sentimental or redemptive fashion. His motives,  however benign, are still essentially self-centered and murky. The beauty  of Patricia Highsmith's characterization, particularly in the Ripley  series, is more the result of what she doesn't assume and what she doesn't  tell you than what she does.<br />Anyone taken by the action and the tension  in &quot;The Talented Mr. Ripley&quot; may find this book a little  maddening. There is very little action in this novel, and when it occurs it  somehow seems less relevant than the remainder of the story. &quot;The Boy  Who Followed Ripley&quot; more of a psychological exploration than a  thriller. The interesting factor here is the contrast between the machinery  of Ripley's untroubled soul and the agony of the boy's tormented one. As  Ripley shields the boy from the police, kidnappers, and his family he also  attempts to teach him how to cope with the weight of his crime. The tension  in this novel doesn't come from wondering whether Ripley will get away with  murder so much as wondering whether or not he can successfully impart his  amoral aplomb to his young charge. It is a very subtle kind of tension  which frankly won't appeal to everyone.<br />While I enjoyed the premise and  the slow pace of this book I did feel that Highsmith was a bit more  careless than in her other ones. Somehow I don't think the boy's family or  the private detective they hired would so easily allow Ripley to assist  them when the boy is kidnapped. Parts of the novel failed to realize their  enormous potential. For example, at one point, Ripley decides that he's  simply going to challenge the kidnappers and settle the score with them if  possible. It's a thrilling moment because you agree with the often  disagreeable Ripley and you wonder how he'll pull it off. But in this scene  the action is too quick, too easy and-well-not too believable. It's one of  the few gripes I have with Highsmith but it hardly diminishes my  appreciation of the book.<br />One thing that I'm really curious about and  which makes the Ripley series quite enjoyable is how the hell his wife  copes with him. Even to the most naïve it is obvious that Ripley is either  a criminal or a person who attracts crime. What kind of woman is his wife?  Does she have an inkling about her husband? What attracts her to him?  Highsmith provides us with delightful hints about this in some of the other  novels, but not so much in this one. Perhaps more than any other Ripley  novel, including the highly introspective &quot;Ripley Underwater&quot;,  this one takes us right into the man's very thoughts.	2000-02-08
US	50774246	RYMZTHL025TUO	0684872153	698161422	Angela's Ashes:  A Memoir	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Superbly told and well worth the telling	McCourt prepares us for the difficult journey through &quot;Angela's Ashes&quot; when he states that &quot;of course it was a miserable childhood. The happy ones are hardly worth the while&quot;. We know we are  going to experience some pretty unpleasant things but we also know that the  narrator survived and that, like him, we will get through them with a sense  of humor and irony.<br />Angela's Ashes contains some pretty rough stuff.  Hunger, sickness, death, neglect, abuse, persecution, and guilt are the  standard features throughout the book. Just when you think things are bad,  they get worse. The family goes from a hovel to homelessness and the mother  goes from poverty to out and out begging. When they finally take up  residence with the mother's cousin it isn't really clear whether she sleeps  with him out of need, affection, or as a form or rent payment. You might  wonder if this book is so miserable then why is it worth  reading?<br />McCourt's writing, is direct, lucid, and at times ironic. He  chronicles his miserable childhood with little sentimentality and utterly  no self-pity. Although McCourt's prose contains considerable anger toward  the trauma and occasional injustice of his childhood, he captures the  people and environment with clarity and humor. McCourt clearly has an  intense curiosity about people and a keen perception of character. I  suspect that these qualities played a vital role in his survival.<br />I  recommend this book for several reason. First, it is superbly written. No  matter how interesting a story is, I generally won't read it if the writing  is bad. But McCourt has an ear for dialog and an instinct for language.  Secondly, McCourt's chronicle teaches us a lot about poverty, survival and  how well off most of us are. These are all very important lessons. Finally,  I loved the way &quot;Angela's Ashes&quot; completely transported me to  another time and place. So many writers try and fail to do this, but  McCourt did so with seemingly no effort.<br />&quot;Angela's Ashes&quot; has  also been made into a film which really isn't bad. But it pales in  comparison to the book.	2000-02-03
US	50774246	RHS578XWPBNZ4	044651652X	879659950	The Bridges of Madison County	Books	1	52	71	N	N	Botched Opportunity Revealed by Film	Robert J Waller botched his opportunity to make &quot;The Bridges of Madison County&quot; an interesting novel. The book contains fascinating themes of  conflict including the struggle of choosing between passion and loyalty, and the difficulty of coming to terms with a mother's secret love  affair. Unfortunately, rather than exploring these themes, Waller makes  them the vehicle for a cardboard love story.<br />The hero, Robert Kinkaid  might have been believable if Waller had endowed him with human qualities.  Instead, Waller portrays him as a middle-aged superman: lover, artist,  pacifist yet war hero, impoverished, yet glamorous, lovable but  unavailable. His discourse is sometimes witty and often cheesy, but never  quite believable. I know that Waller wanted to make Kinkaid engaging and  appealing, but the resulting character is a two dimensional fantasy.<br />The  Heroine Francesca is a bit more believable when she expresses her erotic  feelings for Kinkaid and works through the dilemma over whether to run away  with him or to dutifully remain with her husband. Unfortunately, Waller  renders her character meaningless with vapid remarks about how Kinkaid  should go on without her because she'll only cramp his style. The  condescending manner in which she posthumously explains her love affair to  her children comes across as artificial, and insulting.<br />I think the film  version of &quot;Bridges of Madison County&quot; starring Clint Eastwood  and Meryl Streep succeeds where the book fails. Contrary to the book,  Francesca angrily accuses Kinkaid of being selfish and egotistical-a flaw  which he admits. Her objection and his subsequent admission provide the  relationship with more dramatic tension and make it more believable. The  fact that Kinkaid has his flaws makes him more believable and more  appealing. Instead of  being  insipid characters that introduce the story,  Francesca's children experience emotional conflict and character  development of their own. The revelation of their mother's infidelity comes  when each of them is experiencing a crisis in their lives. At first, the  shock and shame of their mother's affair adds to their troubles. But slowly  they come to terms with her affair and subsequently derive the courage and  inspiration from it needed to repair their own lives.<br />I might not have  given &quot;Bridges of Madison County&quot; a second thought and certainly  would not have wasted time reviewing it if the film version had not  revealed its failed potential to be a decent novel.	2000-01-28
US	50774246	RTA6QA8I23PTU	031215691X	348029278	The White-Haired Girl: Bittersweet Adventures of a Little Red Soldier	Books	4	1	2	N	N	An honest, refreshing account	I enjoyed &quot;The White-Haired Girl&quot; much more than most other memoirs from the Cultural Revolution. This book really made me feel that I was experiencing events from the perspective of a child in a time of  tremendous chaos and political upheaval. Although the author certainly  experienced considerable hardship, her story lacks the self-pity or  moralizing one often finds in similar accounts. <br />One proof of the  author's skill is the fact that I found myself more interested in the  people she writes about then in the political events surrounding them. The  people who fascinated me the most were Ms. Sun's father and her friend,  Little Plumb. I have a feeling that I would have been interested in their  stories regardless of the environment or historical circumstances in which  they lived.<br />One or two parts of the book irked me a little. For example,  in describing the romantic evolution of her first love, Ms. Sun says  something to the effect that Spring's perfect love turned into Summer's  splendid passion and she didn't even tell her mother. I took this to mean  that the relationship became very serious, perhaps even physical, and that  she concealed this fact from her mother. While I sympathize with Ms. Sun's  desire not to be explicit on this subject, I also find the metaphor to be a  little weak.<br />But aside from such insignificant flaws, this is a powerful,  honest, and well written memoir that I recommend warmly. I am curious to  see the author's next project.	2000-01-28
US	50774246	R1D8G9XGKTL7MG	014010870X	944370212	Life and Death in Shanghai	Books	5	156	162	N	N	Superbly written, interesting and objective.	I never thought that I could love a true account of tragedy, suffering, and grave injustice, but I have to admit that I love &quot;Life and Death in Shanghai&quot;. I don't mean that I read this book for entertainment or recommend it to everybody. Like some of the works of Solzhenitsyn or Elie  Weisel, the subject of Nien Cheng's book  is real, painful, and sometimes  very difficult to read. Yet I find myself constantly rereading &quot;Life  and Death in Shanghai&quot; and it is one of the few books I refuse to part  with. How can this be?<br />Nien Cheng writes of personal loss, suffering, and  injustice with unusually lucid and mature prose. She is impressive as story  teller, an historian, but most of all as a writer. One of the most  effective qualities of Nien Cheng's writing is the remarkable restraint she  employs when describing unfair and frankly inhumane actions perpetrated  against her and her family. She describes her arrest, captivity, and daily  efforts to challenge her tormentors with cool objectivity.<br />One of the  most impressive parts of the book is the account of how Nien Cheng studied  Chairman Mao's collected works in prison. Despite the fact that Mao's  policies had personally harmed her and were tearing China apart, she  studied his works in earnest and evaluated them objectively. She concluded  that Mao was a brilliant guerrilla warfare strategist but that he was only  capable of destruction, not creativity.<br />Nien Cheng enhances her personal  narrative by describing relevant Chinese historical events. As a result,  the reader acquires a sense of context and is better able to understand why  certain things happen to her. For example, Nien Cheng is repeatedly  persecuted for her alleged support of Liu Xiaoqi. During one of her  interrogations she is bold enough to declare that his policies, as  elucidated by her jailers, sound perfectly sensible. Then after years in  captivity, she is suddenly treated with more kindness and praised for her  positive remarks about Liu Xiaoqi. Nien Cheng explains to the reader that  during this time, political tidings had turned against the radical Gang of  Four and that moderate factions in the Chinese Communist Party had  rehabilitated Liu Xiaoqi.<br />I recommend this book to anyone interested in  modern Chinese history, in survival and triumph, or to anyone who enjoys  encountering the English language at its best. My deep respect and  appreciation go out to Nien Cheng.her  positive remarks about Liu Xiaoqi. Nien Cheng explains to the reader that  during this time, political tidings had turned against the radical Gang of  Four and that moderate factions in the Chinese Communist Party had  rehabilitated Liu Xiaoqi.<br />I recommend this book to anyone interested in  modern Chinese history, in survival and triumph, or to anyone who enjoys  encountering the English language at its best. My deep respect and  appreciation go out to Nien Cheng.	2000-01-28
US	50774246	R2TDLZ44TMX7C9	0694520152	636015448	Lolita	Books	5	52	63	N	N	A great and troubling book	Lolita is both a great and troubling novel. It's difficult to imagine Nabokov writing anything of poor quality. His prose has a natural flow and an effortless sophistication that I have never seen in any other writer of  the English language. He writes with grace and maturity that lend his prose  a certain amount of authority. Once can hardly question the master, and  this may be why I was seduced by &quot;Lolita&quot; the first time I read  it.<br />During the first reading, I was swept away by the caricature of  Humbert Humbert. His old world manner, his cool, self-justifying narrative,  and his academic contempt for trendy concepts such as Freudian Psychology  and Existentialism were humorous and refreshing. I was seduced by the  characterization and language in the novel and hardly thought of it in  realistic terms. This perspective was only reinforced by seeing the  original film with Peter Sellers and James Mason. Like my first reading of  the novel, the film had a gentle and irresistible current of humor that  made it difficult to imagine the events actually occurring in the lives of  real people.<br />The second time I read &quot;Lolita&quot; I had a far more  troubling experience. I still enjoyed the novel's writing and  characterization, but this time it struck me on a realistic level. I found  myself empathizing with Lolita and imagining what the world must be like  from her perspective as she traveled around the country in the company of   a foster parent who habitually molested her. I was especially stunned by  the scene in which Humbert first informs her that she cannot leave him and  return to her mother because her mother is dead. Lolita storms out of the  room but eventually returns to Humbert's bed and tearfully wraps her arms  around him. When she does this, Humbert chillingly informs the reader that  she simply had nowhere else to go. In that moment, I was suddenly immune to  the charm of Humbert's narrative and enormously sad for  Lolita.<br />Coincidentally, just after my second reading of Lolita, I saw the  film with Jeremy Irons. Unlike the earlier version, the film treated the  story in a blunt and realistic manner. The humorous characters and witty  dialogs were overshadowed by a constant coldness and brutality throughout  the film.<br />&quot;Lolita&quot; is a great novel, but we should be wary of  how and why we appreciate it. Some readers and critics view Lolita as a  tragic love story while others consider it a celebration of the open road.  Some even argue that &quot;Lolita&quot; is a  metaphor for the clash  between European and American culture. &quot;Lolita&quot; may well be all  these things and more, but it is also a much darker chronicle of the  tormentor's mindset. Humbert's narrative is charming and full of old world  conceit, but it is also a tool of disguise. Humbert self-consciously uses  style to conceal the naked brutality of his craving and the harm it causes  Lolita. He disguises himself as the doomed lover and portrays her as the  tormenting muse. <br />We should praise Nabokov for this clever role reversal.  It is a wonderful mechanism for employing style in an imaginative manner as  Humbert alerts us in his opening monologue (&quot;Can you stand my  style!&quot;). But while we can admire Nabokov's skill and imagination, we  should not take Humbert at his word for who and what he is.	2000-01-21
US	50774246	RKGE252B0DEI0	0679745688	904783689	Ripley's Game	Books	5	59	61	N	N	An excellent novel in many respects	In her book about plotting and writing thrillers, Patricia Highsmith said that European critics and publishers think of her books as novels, not merely as thrillers. After reading &quot;Ripley's Game&quot;, one can  certainly sympathize with the European point of view. &quot;Ripley's  Game&quot; is an excellent thriller and an excellent novel.<br />I suspect  that this book finds Tom Ripley in mid career. He's married and living on a  French estate thanks to the generosity of a father-in-law who despises him.  A series of chance events provide Ripley with the opportunity to  simultaneously repay an insult and to help a friend commit a crime. The  ensuing action comprises one of Patricia Highsmith's most interesting  stories. <br />Ripley engineers events so that the man who insulted him ends  up committing the crime for his friend. But a sense of guilt and an  adventurous spirit compel Ripley to come to the man's assistance. Since  crimes never succeed in the exact manner intended, Ripley and company soon  find themselves in a desperate situation that requires a lot of  maneuvering. <br />By the end of the story, at least two people with  conventional mores wind up behaving in a manner that contradicts their  ethics. While Ripley's point of view is a little more subdued than usual,  he still displays a few humorous touches. In the scene where he decides  that he must garrote a Mafia leader, for example, he becomes excited at the  thought of &quot;his first Mafia effort&quot;. Later when he must explain  the presence of two dead Mafia hitmen to a frightened housewife, he becomes  the country gentlemen informing her that these people are vermin whose  death is regrettable but who deserved their fate.<br />Patricia Highsmith  usually writes from the point of view of a single protagonist, and since  all speech and action is conveyed through that person, we quickly see  things from his or her point of view. In this novel, however, the action is  disseminated through twopoints of view, Ripley's and that of his  puppet/accomplice. The result is both interesting and unsettling. On the  one hand, we really get a sense of what other people think of Tom Ripley,  and how much of his criminal life is apparent to them. On the other hand,  it's a strange change to observe Ripley from the outside instead of seeing  the action from his point of view.<br />&quot;Ripley's Game&quot; examines the  forces that motivate a normally law abiding citizen to commit a crime. In  the process it causes us to question how circumstantial our own morality  and legal obedience may actually be.	2000-01-19
US	50774246	RTYZABTJ60M6M	0312206372	8148905	The Climb: Tragic Ambitions on Everest	Books	2	23	27	N	N	Interesting facts but dissapointing overall	After reading Krakauer's version of the 1996 disaster on Mt. Everest I decided to read any other available account including Boukreev's. Having read some of the other reviews of both books I want to state that I am not  interested in which climber was right or wrong. I am only interested in the  quality of the books and the story as a whole.<br />Boukreev's account was  interesting and thankfully it wasn't the point by point rebuttal of  Krakauer that I dreaded. Bourkreev provided many interesting contrasts to  Krakauer's account. These included:<br />1. The perspective from Scott  Fischer's expedition instead of Rob Hall's where Krakauer was.<br />2. The  point of view of a world-class climber instead of an average one who  describes himself as being woefully out of shape.<br />3. The day to day  thoughts of a as rather than a client or observer.<br />Perhaps the strongest  impression provided by Boukreev's account is of frequent misunderstandings  and communication problems between the Fischer and himself as well as  Fischer and his clients. Whether he intended to or not, Krakauer portrayed  Boukreev as something of a villain who was out for himself. After reading  climb, I don't think that Boukreev was selfish and negligent but that he  did not receive consistent and adequate instructions from his  leader.<br />Another interesting difference between each book is the different  perspective of Sandy Hill Pitman. Krakauer takes a rather disparaging view  of her and describes her as the spoiled brat of the expedition. But  Boukreev describes her purely in terms of her role as a mountaineer. He  access her strengths and weaknesses objectively and whether he intends to  or not, he accords her much more respect than Krakauer.<br />I would give  &quot;Climb&quot; three, possibly four stars if it weren't for the quality  of the writing. Unfortunately DeWalt, tries to be too writerly and too  gimmicky with his story. He ends chapter after chapter with glib remarks  resembling such phrases as &quot;little did they know what disaster was in  store for them&quot;, or &quot;but it was not to be.&quot; His tone is  artificial and his narrative is more of an imposition than anything else.  Fortunately, DeWalt is merciful enough to isolate Boukreev's personal  narrative by rendering it in italics.<br />If you are interested in Mountain  Climbing or in the 1996 disaster, then by all means read this book. But be  ready for some disappointment.	2000-01-14
US	50774246	R2YMLFSOQLIIAL	0679723161	636015448	Lolita	Books	4	33	38	N	N	A difficult book to be enjoyed and reviled on many levels	I have read &quot;Lolita&quot; twice and have seen both film versions of the story. The first time I read &quot;Lolita&quot; , I was caught up in  the ironic spirit of Nabokov's writing and was humored by the caricature of  Humbert Humbert.  Essentially, I was fascinated by the contrast of the  stogy European and the tacky American cultural and geological  landscape.<br />For some reason, the second time I read the book I was much  more attuned to the plight of the young girl, Lolita. I saw her less as a  plot device and more as a character in her own right. And of course the  moment I viewed her in this context, I really came to see how horribly she  suffered at the hands of a powerful, sex-crazed fiend. Nabokov  being  Nabokov, my moments of realization were subtle. For example, during the  terrible bedroom scene in which Humbert informs Lolita that her mother can  not come to her rescue because she is dead, Lolita storms away in grief and  despair. But eventually she returns to Humbert's bed and Humbert informs us  that &quot;you see, she had no place else to go.&quot; What chilling words.  During the second reading they froze me in my seat. How many kidnappers and  child molesters have   thrived on such a revelation? <br />Humbert is part  European caricature, part monster, and yet he has many touches of a real  human being. At one point he observes Lolita to her friend and inquiring  about one of life's mysteries. After hearing her question, Humbert realizes  far from merely being his &quot;nymphette&quot; and object of his desires,  Lolita is a real human being with her own thoughts and feelings. It is a  sad and fascinating revelation for Humbert, who of course fails to act on  it in a salutary fashion.<br />Whether we like it or not, &quot;Lolita&quot;  is a love story albeit not a very wholesome one. Humbert says he loves  Lolita, and certainly devotes his life to her in more ways than your  average middle class husband. But in many ways, Humbert's behaviorresembles a compulsive sexual addiction more than love. It is Humbert's  recounting of events more than his behavior that makes this a love  story.<br />People have speculated about possible relationship between the  doomed protagonist and his creator. Certainly some of the events in  &quot;Lolita&quot; are drawn from real life. The story of Humbert's first  love, Anabell closely parallels Nabokov's description in &quot;Speak  Memory&quot; of a girl he met during a youthful trip to the South of  France. Although writers frequently cull material from real life  experiences, there is no evidence that Humbert resembles Nabokov in any  fashion.<br />Critics have also attempted to read &quot;Lolita&quot; on a  metaphorical level by claiming that it is really a book about the author's  love affair with America. Somehow I just don't buy it. For one thing, the  description and characterization of the American people and landscape is  hardly flattering in &quot;Lolita&quot;.  And though, I may be wrong, I  believe Nabokov's strentgh lies in his literal conveyance of mood,  character, and the immediate surroundings, not in symbolic writing.<br />It is  ironic that Nabokov detested Freudian psychoanalytic theory and yet was a  gifted psychologist himself. You can not read &quot;Lolita&quot; without  being impressed by Nabokov's lucid and accurate characterization of people.  With the possible exception of Quilty, his characters are extremely  realistic. This is particularly disturbing in Humbert's case because the  reader experiences him on two levels. On the one hand, Humbert is the  pervert and child molester that most people fear and detest. On the other  hand, his mania and craving probably strike a chord in most of  us.<br />Nabokov's use of language is fluid and complex. In the opening  narrative, Humbert introduces himself to the reader in a convluted, verbose  fashion. But before we can get use to his endless sentences, and limitless  vocabulary, Humbert stops himself by saying, &quot;can you stand my  style?&quot;. Nabokov is telling us, &quot;look, this guy is such a  caracature  that even HE knows it.&quot; In fact, Nabokov reveals the many  facets of Humbert's character (maniac, pervert, jilted lover, etc) through  dialog, description, and poetry. It is a very complex task that would fail  in the hands of a less able writer. Nabokov accomplishes it with amazing  ease.<br />Speaking briefly of the two Lolita films, I loved the earlier  version with Peter Sellers and James Mason and found the later one with  Jeremy Irons extremely disturbing. The early film version, like my first  reading of Lolita captures the superfluous and futile quality of Humbert's  character. It also downplays the sexual aspect of the story completely. The  latter film version, like my second reading of the book focuses almost  exclusively on the criminal and horrible aspects of the story. In many  ways, the film is well done, but is also a gratuitous  interpretation.<br />Although in many ways I don't like &quot;Lolita&quot; and  certainly don't think it is one of Nabokov's best works, I highly recommend  it. Nobokov's prose and particularly his dialogs are superb. The  characterization, irony and psychology of the book are probably among the  best ever written.	2000-01-11
US	50774246	R2UT7HZLW3ZT8R	0385492081	82772270	Into Thin Air: A Personal Account of the Mt. Everest Disaster	Books	4	9	14	N	N	Well written yet unsympathetic	Most reviews of &quot;Into Thin Air&quot; appear to have both a literary and a moral component. I rate this book very highly for the literary component. Krakauer's account of the 1996 disaster on Mt. Everest is  superbly written. His prose is lucid and conversational while his research  is very thorough. Krakauer is smart enough to share the minute details of  the expedition with us. When he talks about training, food, oxygen,  supplies, logistics, hygiene, and so forth, he indoctrinates us into the  mountaineering world. As a result, when he brings us up the mountain--and  then into disaster--we are thoroughly familiar with the territory.<br />Of  course the book has its flaws. Although this is more of a journalistic  account than anything else, Krakauer's narrative involves at least one  character development: his own. Krakauer portrays himself in a slightly  contradictory manner. On the one hand, he's Jon Krakauer, the experienced  mountaineer who is a damn site better than most of the amateurs in the  climbing party. On the other hand, he's humble Jon, whose really just glad  to be along and whose embarrassingly out of shape and gosh, he's just so  lucky to be alive at the end. Of course its possible that, like most  people, Krakauer is at times egotistical and at times humble. But here it  he appears to have appropriated those portions of his personality to the  most compatible sections of his narrative. For example, Krakauer delights  in telling us how easy it is for him to outpace all of the amateur climbers  on the expedition. On the other hand, he freely admits his errors and  possible culpability in the death of at least one fellow climber.<br />If I  had to judge this book on ethical terms, I would give it one star. Although  Krakauer writes of tragic events, I find his prose to be unjustifiably  self-pitying at times. Mountaineering is a dangerous sport in general and  climbing Everest is extremely high risk. When you add commercial incentives  to such an enterprise then of course people are going to get killed.<br />I  also find the conduct of some of the climbers to be abominable. I simply  don't understand why the morning rescue party left Beck Whethers and Yasuko  Namba to die. Even if there was no hope for them, would it not have been  more comforting to die in a warm tent surrounded by other people than to be  abandoned in the frozen outdoors? And would they necessarily have died?  After all, Beck Whethers survived. <br />What's more appalling is the conduct  of two Japanese climbers who passed dying members of the Sino-Tibetan  expedition en route to the summit. The Japanese climbers ignored them and  continued to the top. Then during the decent, they continued to ignore them  and left them to die. This must be the mountain climbing version of the  Great East Asia Co-prosperity Sphere.<br />Friends of mine who have gone  trekking in Nepal reported that the mountaineers they encountered there  were some of the most self-absorbed, ego maniacs they ever encountered. It  seems pitiable that people would go to enormous, nearly  impossible extents  to reach the top of a mountain but would not less strenuous effort to save  lives.  Imagine the two conversations in the climbers minds:<br />1.   &quot;Yeah, I'm gonna make it to the top baby. I own this summit! Me! Me!  Me! Me!&quot;<br />2.  &quot;Aw, they'll never survive. I'll just leave them  to die in the ice.&quot;<br />What's wrong with this picture?<br />But moral  issues aside, Krakauer's account is superbly written and will probably be  read for generations to come. It is certainly a superior work compared to  The Boukreev/DeWalt version, &quot;Climb&quot;. The latter work also  contains moral ambiguity, but unlike Krakauer's, it is horribly written.	2000-01-10
US	50774246	R1IC0DXLDAU27R	014002025X	344578734	Maigret and the Hundred Gibbets	Books	5	15	16	N	N	One of Simenon's best	This is one of the best novels of a superb series. For anyone who is only fleetingly acquainted with Maigret or who does not know him at all, you are in for a great surprise. Maigret is a Paris police detective whose stories  span from his humble beginnings as a constable's secretary to his rise to  success, fame and retirement as the Chief Superintendent of the crime Squad  at the Quaise des Ofevres.<br />Maiget novels are intensely psychological and  the distinction between heroes and villains is not comparable to the one  between the police and criminals. One senses that Maigret empathizes with   the criminals he pursues and even respects them to a considerable degree.  Each novel is essentially a study of character and an exploration of how  individuals react to their environment. Often it is not solving the crime  that is important--indeed Maigret sometimes fails in this endeavor--as much  as understanding the people and circumstances the crime entails. <br />Maigret  novels are also wonderful because they take you through the Paris of  Simenon's time. You go to the neighborhoods, hear the various dialects and  eat the food of France from the 1920s to the 1950s. <br />Many American  writers hardly pay attention to the environment. They describe an item or  detail, here or there, but it is often rough craftsmanship. Simenon uses  the environment as a painter uses colors. He experiments and absorbs with  compelling  results.<br />I have been reading Maigret novel since high school  and I think that &quot;Maigret and the Hundred Gibbets&quot; is one of the  most fascinating and certainly the most haunting one. In this novel,  Maigret stumbles upon what he thinks is a black mailer or thief. He  attempts to flush him out by stealing his money only to be surprised by the  man's sudden resolve to kill himself. Further investigation reveals that  the man is involved in an elaborate revenge plan against himself and his  former classmates for a crime they committed yearsago. The passion and  fanaticism in this novel are extreme yet highly believable. It is also  based on real events in Simenon's youth which are described in his most  recent biography.<br />I recommend most if not all Maigret novels for anyone  interested in psychology, well crafted mystery, and travelogues.	2000-01-10
US	50774246	R3O4IT3EKGTTFH	0679748091	731779198	Ripley Under Water	Books	4	23	28	N	N	The Country Gentleman Killer	In this book, written almost forty years after &quot;The Talented Mr. Ripley&quot;, our hero has matured in many ways. Ripley is now a living abroad as a country gentleman with a beautiful wife, a home, and a refined  taste in art. Even more interesting is the manner in which Ripley's  criminal mind has matured. He has evolved from thief and confidence  trickster to the more dignified crime of forgery. Now he has friends and  confidants of many years to assist him. He also has a string of murders  behind him and several implacable enemies including, vulgar American named  Prichard who is determined to expose his crimes. <br />Despite Ripley's  tarnished history, we quickly come to see him as the unfair victim of the  obnoxious, meddlesome Prichard.  So what if he's forged a few paintings and  killed some people? After all, Ripley is a cultured gentleman-he's a  painter, musician, and polyglot with all the trappings of a successful  businessman. We know that Ripley kills but only as a last resort and often  with regret. Prichard on the other hand, makes a career of victimizing  people. His battle with Ripley is not a moral crusade as much as a sadistic  whim.<br />In the oddest and perhaps the most brilliant part of the novel  Ripley is reading Richard Ellman's biography of Oscar Wilde to take his  mind off of Prichard's threatening activities. He finishes the book (it is  an excellent biography of Wilde, by the way) and compares Prichard's  activities to the Marquis of Queensbury's legal assault on  Wilde and to  the  Persecution of Christ. Ripley concludes that in all three situations,  the rough and the low-born attack the refined. It's a bit of a stretch but  it works.  Ripley the murderer becomes victim and martyr.<br />Since almost  all of the crime in this novel has already been committed in the past, the  reader experiences it in Ripley's recounting of past experiences. Even the  removal of Prichard is more of a fortuitous even then premeditated murder.  Thetension and &quot;edge&quot; in this novel comes not so much from  actions as the thoughts and words that accompany those actions. At one  point Ripley admonishes a less determined accomplice not to bother saving  the dying Prichard. His tone is stern, ruthless, and utterly devoid of any  moral consideration. <br />I'm not surprised that a lot of Ripley fans did not  like this book since it is largely psychological and lacks the frenetic  action of &quot;The Talented Mr. Ripley&quot;. But &quot;Ripley Under  Water&quot; is a superb thriller in its own right with a lot of wonderful  touches. I found the older, refined, Tom Ripley to be a completely  believable character. Just go to a college reunion some time and you'll  notice that all of the nihilists and trouble makers you went to school with  are now the nicest parents and spouses. So it is with Ripley, the country  gentleman. <br />Similarly his nemesis, Prichard is believable in his own  right. In the end isn't it American culture that has come to France to  attack its refined fugitive?	2000-01-08
US	50774246	R2MK2J4KI1EG0S	019283861X	754374116	The Wings of the Dove (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	3	36	55	N	N	Wings of the Duck	Yes, it's a great novel. Yes the language is rich, the story is subtle, and the psychology is complex. And yet, I didn't like it.<br />Of course, who am I to review Henry James? Granted, I read more books and watch less  television than most of my peers, but still I think I might be too  &quot;late Twentieth Century&quot; for this book. Maybe despite my strict  avoidance of video games I just can't help detesting the millipede pace of  this book. I've never had much affinity for drawing room conversations to  begin with, and unlike my father I don't believe that wit must be meted out  in tortuous sentences. <br />But it isn't my background or personal prejudices  that make me recoil from &quot;Wings of the Dove&quot;. There is something  about the deliberate quality of Henry James that bothers me. He knows  perfectly well what he's doing with his fat succulent sentences. He won't  feed you a meal of lean pork and vegetables. He'll serve you tons of tiny  truffles and oil-oozing, crispy skinned duck. <br />To read &quot;Wings of the  Dove&quot; is like encountering a cookbook that decided to include as much  of the delicious fatty foods as possible. Of course its a rare meal and  quite wonderful in its way. But some how, it made me a little nauseous at  the end.	2000-01-06
US	50774246	R1HE5B0G3RZICJ	014004020X	904783689	The Talented Mr. Ripley	Books	5	61	65	N	N	Sympathetic Psychopath	After I saw the film, &quot;The Talented Mr. Ripley&quot;, I was anxious to read the book for two reason. First of all, I had been very impressed with the delicate manner in which Anthony Mangela reworked &quot;The  English Patient&quot; into film, so I was curious to see if he had done so  here as well. Secondly, I loved the idea of the story and was curious about  the writer.<br />&quot;The Talented Mr. Ripley&quot; is a wonderful novel on  several levels. It is different, it is highly suspenseful and in its own  way it is believable. Did I come away from the book believing that anyone  could get away with so bold and complex a crime? No. Did I find Tom Ripley  to be a believable character? Absolutely.<br />Highsmith's gift in part is to  make us empathize with Tom Ripley. In a subtle and understated way, we are  drawn to Tom Ripley. While his motives and actions may be morally  repellent, his feelings and judgment are oddly agreeable. His crummy  friends in New York remind me of the crummy friends that I could not wait  to abandon there. His sense of purpose and his deliberate role playing on  the journey to Italy are probably common to every young man on his first  major voyage. Ripley's attitude and experience have enough in common with  us that we are drawn in. We are drawn in to the point that we eventually  realize with a start that we are empathizing with a premeditated  murderer.<br />Highsmith does not make a social commentary about the potential  killer in all of us. Instead, she adds enough common touches to the killer  to make us become his unwitting sympathizers.<br />The book also serves as a  refreshing travelogue. Highsmith is clearly well traveled and she uses her  experiences well. In the hands of a less adept writer, Ripley would have  been annoying and the tone of the book too pretentious. As it were,  Highsmith writes with great subtlety and skill.<br />Mangela's adaptation of  the book departs significantly from the original. Never the less, it is as  authentic and well made as his adaptation of &quot;The English  Patient&quot;.it is as  authentic and well made as his adaptation of &quot;The English  Patient&quot;.	2000-01-04
US	50774246	R2FYV6004LVA0I	0671504398	43490097	Les Miserables (Enriched Classics)	Books	3	4	11	N	N	I hate the term &quot;Les Mis&quot;ÿ	Yes, I hate the term &quot;Les Mis&quot;. It strikes me as the           Americanizing and the dumbing down of an interesting and           complex book. I must confess that I haven't seen the musical           and I never  will. Hugo provides a vast historical panorama           and a scathing  commentary of post Napoleonic France. I           can't imagine the  richness of his material and bredth of his           vision being reduced  to a few cute skits and songs.           Americans certainly do like their  entertainment to be simple,           and have become accustomed to the  moral universe of the sit           com (twenty minutes, four or five  attractive white people, two           or three issues, no conflicts, no  complexity, no sign of           entropy...). It is appalling to  imagined&quot;Les Miserables&quot;           parsed and truncated for such  a format.<br />          Hugo is enjoyable for the very opposite reason.  Rather than           conflating things, he spreads them out. After  thoroughly           familiarizing us with his principle characters, he  can't resist           having the plot elope with some of the lesser ones  for awhile           (Epinone, Gavroche). As the characters wind their way            through the environment, we are provided with rich historical            digressions. For example, it is not enough to have Jean Val            Jean escape through the Paris sewer--Hugo has to tell us           about  the history of the sewer from Roman times to the           present.<br />           Unfortunately, I read an English translation of &quot;Les  Miserable&quot;           so my appreciation of Hugo's language is limited.  But even in           translation, Hugo's writing, is passionate, alive,  and ironic.<br />          In the end, &quot;Les Miserables&quot; is a moral  and spiritual story.           Yet, despite the pleasure and interest it  provided me,           something didn't add up in the end. Many of the  principlecharacters seemed more like personification than real  people.           (Javert = law, Marius = idealism, etc.)It was actually  the           lesser characters such as Epinone and Curyfrac who seemed            more believable. But perhaps I am spoiled by having read            &quot;War and Peace&quot; which is arguably the greatest novel ever            written. I was able to read &quot;Les Miserables&quot; in a detached            albeit interested fashion. The believable characters and            spiritual impetus of &quot;War and Peace&quot; on the other hand were            completely consuming.	1999-12-24
US	50774246	R2JMUL4MJYIQ9Y	0553213105	503057596	Pride and Prejudice (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	10	14	N	N	Not the prudishness and palaver I once thought it was	My first experience with Jane Austen was an unfotunate one since, like many people, I had her prose rammed down my throat by a dodo high school English teacher. To make matter worse, the instructor, Ms. Z was a retired  hippie who wore burlap sacks to school and worshipped Freud. At one point  she had me write a paper comparing the three principle characters to the id  (Lydia) the ego (Elizabeth) and  the superego (Jane). At the tender age  when a youth's mind is ripe for absorption and exploration, mine was  already acclimated to the professional academic practice of ideological  regurgitation of canonical literature.<br />But years later, I saw the mini  series and really enjoyed it. I promptly reopened the novel after many  years and discovered the intensely liberating sensation of rereading  required highschool texts without pedagocical intrusion.<br />Austen's  portrait of Victorian society is a sociological gem. And this time instead  of taking my teacher's word for it, I actually found the book enormously  funny. Much of the language, environment, and social circumstances are  completely out of date, but in order to appreciate them, one must read the  book in context. Some argue that it is too verbose. But there were no  malls, cars or televisions in Victorian England. People entertained  themselves, among other ways, by reading and writing and corresponding with  each other. Words played heavily in the day to day lives of the middle  class and aristocracy.<br />I recommend that anyone who detested this book in  high school, reread it and enjoy it. And I recommend that educators present  this book in context so that students can appreciate it's humor, language  and historical perspective.	1999-12-10
US	50774246	R1XM7PT8SAKKFQ	0451935608	194834621	Ayn Rand 2-copy set	Books	1	12	36	N	N	Tome for the needy	The Fountain Head is certainly a good read. It's packed with action, drama, and a swaggering hero rapist. I enjoyed this book as a form of entertainment, but as a novel of ideas it is quite absurd.<br />Rand's  ideology is best described as a precursor to the decomposing credo,  &quot;rugged individualism&quot;. Rand posits that the world contains a  tiny elect of maverick creators and individualists and the pathetic,  paracites that make up the rest of the human race. This argument might have  some substance if the book was about creators and artists, but oddly enough  is a moral code for civilization in total.<br />I enjoyed the spirit of the  &quot;Fountain Head&quot; and might have ignored its numerous  contradictions if it weren't for the fact that a significant number of  oddballs treat this book with religious reverence. In their desire to be  like Howard Roarke, many of Rand's devotees forget that complex societies  are interdependent entities and they simply would not function if everyone  was a Howard Roarke. Is Howard Roarke a bad person? No. He's a creative  maverick with an admirable strength of spirit. But like all artists of such  ilk, the creations are more important than the creator. Should all of us be  like Howard Roarke? Perhaps we should emulate his integrity and  self-reliance. But if you think a person can survive in this world without  depending on others, don't kid yourself. you didn't grow the food you eat,  you didn't produce the electicity you use, and it isn't your precious  freedome that ensure jet planes don't collide in midair.<br />One final note.  When Roarke rapes Domanique, he isn't just committing a violent crime. He's  also exploiting and using someone else, which is the very thing he detests  in Peter Keating and Gail Wainand.   Nice try, though, Ain.	1999-12-06
US	50774246	R1ZCHPJTVX27LZ	0812035437	229804605	Albert Camus's the Stranger (Barron's Book Notes)	Books	5	24	27	N	N	Condemned for being honest	The darkness and simplicity of this wonderful book are frequently misunderstood. Many readers find Merseault cold and emotionless, but this is not the case. Merseault displays emotion in his argument with the prison  priest, and (big surprise) his feelings toward his mother.<br />Although he is  put on trial for killing an Arab, Mersault is actually condemned for  failing to grieve for his mother in public. Have any of you been to the  funeral of an elderly realative? Sometimes, despite the emotions you feel  for that person, the experience of the funeral is flat, meaningless and  logical. All of the love came before the event and will come again many  times later. But somehow a funeral leaves one dry and plain. Mersault  experienced his mother's death for what it was: a dry and uncomfortable  event. He did not put on a show for the people involved with the funeral or  those who knew the deceased. His actions were plain and honest. <br />But  Merseault does have feelings for his mother. When he learns much later that  she had a lover in the elderly home she occupied he feels glad for her.  That moment of empathy if an extrordinary act of comppassion. It is also a  private one.<br />&quot;The Stranger&quot; reveals many simple truths about  the kind of people we are and it raises questions about the inegrity behind  our thoughts and actions. It is a wonderful book whose value is easily  overlooked by people who only put stock in a verbose work.	1999-12-06
US	50774246	R3IVLOYVALYUQR	0671038249	904075472	A Conspiracy of Tall Men	Books	2	4	13	N	N	Firrst semester grades	I give this book an A for effort. Writing is very difficult work. Writing for a living can be one of the most difficult and discouraging enterprises. I  salute anyone, even the mediocre for giving it a shot.<br />I give this  book a C for content. There is nothing creative in the conspiracy theories  contained in this book. They serve no instructional purpose and in terms of  entertainment, we've all seen them before in various episodes of the  X-files.<br />I give this book a C for style. The writing has been described  as hip, witty and entertaining. Maybe I'm a bit jaded, but to me it bears  the stamp of another young person who really likes himself but whose prose  is unremarkable.<br />Final grade C+. Mr. Hawley, your grade at the end of the  course will be based on improvement. You have every opportunity to get an A  in the course. But to accomplish this, you must produce a meaningful story  in genuinely interesting language. Come see me during my office hours if  you have an questions.	1999-11-22
