US	50776010	R2FOU9EJIC7UWS	0385503857	264457638	Oryx and Crake: A Novel (Atwood, Margaret Eleanor)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Bioengineering the end of humanity	This is Atwood's finest novel, describing the journey of the `Snowman' and his eyewitness account of the destruction of humanity.  Humans began destroying themselves through unchecked corporate power and freakish bioengineered decision-making.  Snowman as a child, named Jimmy, recalls his childhood in a corporate planned industrial complex, where the employees are part of the elite and the proletariat suffer in the pleeblands with rampant disease, famine & crime.<br /><br />Civil liberties erode under the watchful eye of the corporate monarch & ethical standards are unchecked as freakish combinations of animals are genetically spliced together (pigoons and wolvogs, rakunks, etc...)  Jimmy's friend, Crake, is a brilliant young chemical engineer with ulterior motives to create a better world by destroying the one he is in.  He bioengineers the future of the human race, the Crakers.<br /><br />It's a horrifying look at what could be a future of unchecked corporate balances.  What are our ethical standards for corporate decision-making - they have the rights of an individual but are not held within the correct legal or moral obligations that other humans are held to.  The corporate scam at it's worst is envisioned in the dystopian Oryx and Crake	2005-08-07
US	50776010	R3A6XM4RPGN0SG	0452285275	937296219	The Clinton Wars	Books	5	8	13	N	N	The Arkansas project	What can I say?  What an excellent book on the 8 tumultuous years of the Clinton White House.  Stretching across the history of the United States Clinton was part of a long time of active progressive presidents attacked from the conservative establishment and entrenched conventional wisdom.  Clinton - Johnson - Kennedy - FDR - Wilson -TR - & Lincoln.  It's a long but extremely engaging book backed  up with many footnotes and facts.<br /><br />I was skeptical of Hillary's `vast right wing conspiracy' charge on the Today Show - however after reading this book and learning about the Arkansas Project, William Mellon Scaife, David Brock, the elves & Ken Starr - it's hard not to believe in the veracity of his claims.  Clinton was attacked relentlessly and impeached on the most bogus reasoning in order to derail the progressive movement.<br /><br />I think you'll find as the reader an incredible education on the machinations of the establishment and the danger that the right wingnuts are to the Constitution.  After reading the Clinton Wars I must get involved in local politics and make a difference - we all have to make a difference.	2005-08-06
US	50776010	R1SSDXXDEG7RYS	038549081X	709722953	The Handmaid's Tale	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Religion and politics gone awry	Offred, a sexual slave, writes a memoir of her experiences in the repressive male dominated future of the United States.  The US experiences a serious drop in reproductive levels due to environmental degradation, birth control, abortion, etc...  As a result, a religious militant cult forces these women to be breeding vehicles and restore reproductive levels to it's former levels.<br /><br />What's most interesting is the perverse use of religion to justify its cruelty toward women and ironically many of the enforcers of this nightmare are also women.  It's an easily read book and a dire warning to fight the current illogicality in religion in today's age	2005-05-23
US	50776010	R2HG34B4A3O0A5	0975254022	224461104	Cherry Whip	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Inspired by life's surprises	Michael Antman's novel begins with a Japanese jazz musician's self-conscious journey through New York and his discovery of himself along the way.  Hiroshi's skilled command of music is in stark contrast to his awkward relationships with his American and Japanese counterparts.  Hiroshi is full of pride with his English pronunciation and he speaks flawless English yet he is too preoccupied and oversensitive with his persona to function as normal.  As a result, Hiroshi communicates poorly with his long distance American girlfriend and his overassertive Japanese father.<br /><br />Early in the novel, Hiroshi is struck with a rare impermanent paralyzing sickness in which he is bed bound in a foreign country and needs to relearn all of his basic motor skills.  During his punishing rehabilitation he comes to realize that he may never play music again and needs to come to grips with his own personal flaws as his own life tumbles to rock bottom.<br /><br />The most compelling part in Antman's novel is Hiroshi's journey back to his childhood and his relationship with his sister, Shizuka, in the small Japanese town Ichikawa.  As a child in Ichikawa, Hiroshi follows his sister along the Forbidden Pathway and comes to finally comprehend his sister's secret as an adult.  Michael Antman's writing style reminds me very much of Mark Salzman and his character's journey through ones self.  This is an exceptional novel, well written and inspired by life's surprises	2005-01-09
US	50776010	ROQU7M6RF0RKF	0553278398	525478656	Prelude to Foundation (Foundation, Book 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Best of the foundation	Can't say enough about Isaac Asimov, reading 'Prelude' was a great experience and seeing the peak of life on Trantor.  What was most fascinating was Daneel Olivaw's appearance.  Many of you remember him from the Robot series.<br />Harry Seldon's adventures start here; he is a very human and fallible subject (unlike the phrophesizing old man in Foundation.)  I think you will find that this is the best of the foundation series and it'll be hard to put down	2003-11-22
US	50776010	R3GYQA782YC81R	0156007754	787923440	Blindness (Harvest Book)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Unusual and chaotic style	Saramago is obviosuly a fantastic storyteller, but what struck me most was the style in which he wrote the book.  As we descend farther and farther into blindness and as a result, chaos, the book's writing style becomes chaotic.  The punctuation becomes unecessary and the syntax more abbreviated and to the point - somewhat like what beind blind must feel like.<br />The imagery is reduced to feelings and hearing - oflactory senses etc. and the visual descriptions are unecessary thereby forcing the reader to feel the utter despair and chaotic situation that exists.  Names and places are reduced to meanigless; people are reffered to by past life descritptions, the \\"doctor\\"; \\"doctor's wife\\"; the \\"boy with the squint\\"; etc...<br />I think you'll find this book exciting without the cheap frills of a shock book.  It will not only scare you but also truly empathize with the chaotic plague of the blind.	2003-01-26
US	50776010	R14DJW8S8QB1JX	0374110131	697393202	Being Dead: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The ground almost swallowing them whole	I was pleasantly surprised at what an excellent book this was.  I read a review from the New York Times and one from Salon that touted Crace's writing style - and they were right.<br />The tale jumps to different time periods intertwining the reader into Joseph and Celice's lives.  The two are indiscriminately killed; it frankly doesn't matter why they were killed because this is a book about death, not dying.  Their deaths and decomposition is analyzed in detail as well as their daughter's uncertainty while her parents are rotting in the Baritone Bay dunes.  It sounds morbid, but it is actually quite fascinating and beautiful - for these two the circle of life was practically complete - the ground almost swallowing them whole.<br />As disturbing as the title is for some of you, this book I think you will find this to be a wonderful story about death and maybe give some meaning to what death is - I don't purport to say that I have figured it out though.	2002-03-02
US	50776010	RYFQD6NAJXJ7M	087975124X	506739930	Atheism: The Case Against God (The Skeptic's Bookshelf)	Books	4	17	25	N	N	A viable alternative to today�s supernaturalism	This was very informative book that laid the groundwork for \\"non-belief\\" and provided very compelling responses to the typical theist arguments.  I found the book to be a bit repetitive, but I believe that Smith was trying to lay a definitive foundation for his argument and needed to repeat some of the basic tenants of non-theism.<br />I started to read this book because I felt it was time to not only accept atheism as a viable alternative to religion (supernaturalism), but to also see if atheism could exist in my life and still maintain my sanity.  I realize that I am smart enough and rational to reject most of the tenants of religion and their archaic belief in supernaturalism, superhuman endeavors, and physically impossible happenstances.  However, what this book does not prescribe anything to fill the void of \\"What's the point of all of this?\\"  That is unfortunately left for you to decide.<br />As much as I hate the proselytizing by the Christian faith, I found Smith's argument directed specifically toward Christians to be a weakness in his argument.  Being a non-Christian, I questioned his tactics, and I believe that many Christians would find his argument offensive and malicious  I have no doubt that some close minded and uninformed Christians are giving this book one star without actually reading it because they have been programmed to believe in a certain way and attack anyone who is different.  However, I wish Smith would have stayed above the fray and supported his argument by explicitly question theism in general.<br />Even if one decides that they are a theist, reading this book will still enlighten you to your own decisions regarding religion.  I recommend that everyone should read this book and not regard religion as a necessity, but rather as a choice - many of us were indoctrinated to believe a certain way - open your mind when you read this.  Atheism is not an immoral philosophical viewpoint to prove everyone else wrong, but it is a viable alternative to today's supernaturalism.tive to today's supernaturalism.	2002-02-19
US	50776010	R3AEQM8YBVVKH2	0345379187	76135912	Billions & Billions: Thoughts on Life and Death at the Brink of the Millennium	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Sagan, a green proponent	This book was admittedly not what I expected, but I was nonetheless pleasantly surprised.  When first reading this book Sagan essay's offers insight into more mathematical and scientific insights.  However, the book began to discuss the power of exponential growth which has led to the fear of overpopulation.  Overpopulation led to the discussion of environmentalism and abortion.  I never realized what a green proponent Sagan is, and it is heartening to know that a popular scientific mind is touting these issues.<br />Those of you that watched the Cosmos series and enjoyed his work will also enjoy educating yourself on microbiological ideas and insights.  The book is very readable and designed to be read for by a layperson.  I hope that people that voted republican this year has a clearer insight on how the Republican Party is for big business and not for the future, nor for your children's well being.  What surprises me most is when we vote in a president that is in the back pocket of big oil, and most people that voted for him have little to gain except for a few bucks on tax decreases and whole lot more CFCs.<br /> This book and Sagan's essasys are especially pertinent when Bush and his hacks want to roll back the reductions on CFCs for his coporate buddies in Texas.  Read this book, learn from an educated scientific scholar and don't listen to political rhetoric from a greedy elistist like our current president, GW Bush.	2002-02-19
US	50776010	R2D5EQNA38QN54	0375507086	238592866	Too Close to Call: The Thirty-Six-Day Battle to Decide the 2000 Election	Books	4	14	26	N	N	One party wanted it more and fought a dirty fight to get it	This was an excellent book that rehashed the incredible events of the Presidential Election.  You think of the scandalous and memorable situations that were accorded to our parents generation (Kennedy assassination and Nixon resignation, Vietnam, etc.) and our grandparents and WWII - we as a generation are characterized by the tumultuous events of the last two years with the questionable ascension of power for our current president, George Bush - and eight months after his presidency starts, the attack on the World Trade Center commences.  These last couple of years has been incredible and their memory will be etched in our brains.<br />The book takes a look at the differing styles and situations governing the Florida election results.  Without playing with politics and questioning the rationale of an electoral system, Toobin instead focuses on the strategies of each political camp and why voters were disenfranchised.<br />The Democrats and their leadership are used to \\"street fights\\" and winning at all costs by pulling out the labor muscle and \\"Al Sharpton\\" tactics to get things done.  However, Al Gore wanted to take the high road and make this a legal battle and legitimately contest the Florida election for president, which essentially was a statistical tie.  In contrast, the republicans, still smarting after the Bill Clinton years, wanted to win at all costs, no matter what the situation - they played the political battle.<br />Ironically the Democrats tried to play the statesman like role, and defended state rights with the Florida Supreme Court in their corner - whereas the Republicans turned to the federal court system in another unbelievable twist in this saga.  The saga is ended by a fallible court that is decidedly conservative and invokes an equal protection clause, which is normally reserved to protect the poor and downtrodden.  Ironically it protects George Bush, the Republicans, the establishment, the \\"Brooks Brothers\\" mob, etc. and makes an emotional judgment that disenfranchised the country and who they legitimately picked for president.<br />This book cuts through the rhetoric of both camps and cuts to the chase - one party wanted the presidency more and fought a dirty battle to get it.  For better or for worse this country was changed by the election, and this book gives a great insight to this incredible story.  I think you'll find that people that gave this book a bad review are judging it because they didn't like to hear the \\"truth.\\"udgment that disenfranchised the country and who they legitimately picked for president.  <br />This book cuts through the rhetoric of both camps and cuts to the chase - one party wanted the presidency more and fought a dirty battle to get it.  For better or for worse this country was changed by the election, and this book gives a great insight to this incredible story.  I think you'll find that people that gave this book a bad review are judging it because they didn't like to hear the \\"truth.\\"	2002-01-26
US	50776010	R3C059FXO8H9W5	0140060898	329849771	The Mosquito Coast (Penguin Essentials)	Books	4	13	16	N	N	The modern-day dysfunctional Swiss Family Robinson	This story is about a father too smart and presumptions for his own good., and the growing rebellion of the eldest son seeing the ugly side of his father.  Allie Fox, a self-anointed inventor has a knack for inventing different odds and ends that will purportedly aid humankind.  However, Allie's distrust and revulsion for modern day society (e.g. TV dinners, television, public school, brand names, etc.) is commanding.  He believes humans can make themselves a better world, but illogically he seems to feel that the world can only be better if he invents it.<br />Fed up with American life, Allie moves himself and his wife and four children to one of the remotest parts of Honduras to live a simple and dignified life.  What's ironical is that Allie is trying to escape the excesses of America, yet in Honduras he builds a gigantic and totally unnecessary ice machine.  Charlie, his eldest son, soon recognizes the ego and omnipotent attitude his father attains while in Honduras.  This eventually leads from an idyllic situation in a small Honduran settlement to a complete disaster when Allie tries to demonstrate human prowess and ability to a native Indian population.  Charlie is torn between devotion toward his omnipotent father, and the irrational evil that his father is becoming.<br />Theroux is a fine writer, and illustrates an adventurous and tumultuous time in the modern-day dysfunctional Swiss Family Robinson.	2001-12-23
US	50776010	R2OAO2B2ENFLJ7	0449912167	21920687	The Centaur	Books	4	19	20	N	N	Modern day metaphor of the Chiron legend	The Greek mythology interspersed throughout this book is a small but seemingly important factor.  The protagonist, Caldwell/Chiron is a teacher of high school students in 1940s East Coast.  Caldwell is an obsequious and self-hating man that feels totally inadequate in life - however, he is a goodhearted man that means well.  Caldwell, like the famous centaur, Chiron, is a noble teacher that lacks the command and respect that a good person deserves.  The book starts with Caldwell being shot in the foot with an arrow that one of his students shot into his foot (the same way in which Chiron is killed in Greek mythology.)  Caldwell and his son Peter/Prometheus are connected for a three-day period after car trouble and a blizzard.  The book is mostly narrated from Peter's viewpoint, and you sense the boy/students frustration with his father/teacher and his lack of self-esteem.<br />Peter dotes over his father during this bonding period, as his father prepares for death and his lack of will to live.  Symbolically I believe that the father figure is immortal in a son's eyes, and just as Chiron prepares for death as an immortal, the father figure must also prepare for a type of death when the son comes of age as a young adult.  The story slowly evolves to being a modern day metaphor of the Chiron legend.<br />I wish I knew more about Greek mythology to truly appreciate this book.  Even though my amateurish knowledge limited my understanding of the symbolism, I still truly enjoyed the book and Updike's incredible ability to write.  I recommend the book and also recommend having a basic understanding of the Chiron legend to really appreciate the book.	2001-12-23
US	50776010	R9GKFLIFJAOP2	014017737X	779170984	The Pearl	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Greed and class conflict	I picked up John Steinbeck's short novella while sitting in a bookstore, and put it down after 2 hours over and done with (it's a short book.)  However, the story is rich with symbolism and class struggle.<br />The story begins with Elizando as a poor pearl diver living day by day in utter poverty, the class struggle between the \\"catholic\\" townsmen and the a loosely affiliated Christian/pagan poor.  A scorpion strikes Elizando's child and the distraught father seeks the town doctor, a pompous and mean spirited man, who will help at the right price.<br />The next day, Elizando finds \\"the Pearl of the World\\" perfectly shaped and colored, and as large as a small bird's egg.  Elizando imagines his child going to school and learning how to read - this knowledge would give the family the power it needed to know the truth's of the world and stop relying on superstitions.  However, through greed and class conflict this wish for his child is only a pipe dream.<br />Great book, better than the other so-called short novellas like Catcher in the Rye.  Read this!	2001-12-19
US	50776010	R34J3Y3T1U22LC	0375701427	79852712	American Pastoral: American Trilogy (1) (Vintage International)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Everything that was once perfect is in ruins for the &quot;Swede&quot;	This is Roth's finest book that I have read.  I have always liked the author's unabashed use of sex and the Id in his book, but at times it is so absurd it's distracting.  However, in American Pastoral, the sex in the book is in balance with the scenarios in the book.  Mary Levov, daughter of the high school hero Swede Levov, is a stuttering, fanatical, and highly impressionable child that drives her father from the perfect idyllic life to one of despair and loneliness.  Swede's daughter gets herself involved with a passionate anti-Vietnam group and she ends up planting a bomb in a local post office killing the town doctor.  Mary is on the run and Swede along with the rest of the family shoulder the guilt and the pain of their daughter's folly.<br />This situation exacerbates the differences in Swede's marriage, his relationship with his parents, his job, and his overall place in the world.  Everything that was once perfect is in ruins.  Everything is short-lived, except sadness and despair.  Mary, a bright but insecure child jumps from extremisms, and becomes a Jain instead of a violent protestor.<br />Everyone knows of Philip Roth's incredible abilities, but it was nice to read a serious book of his without the overpowering Freudian Id in the mix.  This is one of the most entertaining and best books I have read.	2001-11-07
US	50776010	RA2F7D0VZSFOK	0140132708	903668876	Midnight's Children	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Intertwined with the history of a new country	Midnight's Children is a flamboyant account of the history of a boy, Saleem, who is intertwined with the history of a new country, India.  He is born at the stroke of midnight carrying with him powers of telepathy that connect him to the other 1001 midnight's children that our born on the birth of India.  The other children also carry gifts, changing genders, witchcraft, levitation, time-travel, etc.<br />Saleem's nemesis, Shiva, was also born at the same moment but born into poverty and has the powers to resist Saleem's telepathic powers.  In the book, we witness the growing pains of a new country and the ill-conceived notion of what these talented children try to accomplish - changing India for the better.  Instead we witness the fragmentation of the new country and religious boundaries being drawn between the Indian (Hindu) and Pakistanis (Muslim) and Bangladesh (Muslim).  Saleem's life and family are intertwined with the history of India, as the country separates and clash, the life and family of Saleem are also destroyed.<br />This is the first novel I've read of Rushdie's after he performed a reading at the Chicago Public Library.  He is clearly a talented writer, but I wish I was more in tune with Indian history and politics; some of the symbolism was over my head.  Nevertheless, I enjoyed the book very much and plan on reading his new book that takes place in New York, Fury.	2001-10-01
US	50776010	R1ZYCAI4BV0ZYF	0425147584	145288617	Debt of Honor (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	4	11	14	N	N	When reality imitates art	This Clancy novel, part of the Jack Ryan saga, follows the protagonist through his reluctant but moralistic attitude through the American political landscape.  Jack is the National Security Advisor for a President bogged down within a increasingly hostile relationship with the Japanese and the unfortunate embargo on Japanese products after a Japanese made car destroys the lives of an average American family.  Thus fueling an escalation of political sparring between the countries.<br />The leader of the Japanese economic contingent contrives a plan to cripple the US economy and somewhat achieves its goal, with the intention of bringing Japan to the forefront of the global economic community.<br />The book ends in an incredible scenario in which reality truly imitates art.  I was reminded of this book today that I read 4 years ago, while watching CNN coverage of the planes that deliberately collided with the World Trade Center in New York City causing its collapse and thousands possibly dead.  You will see once you're done reading this novel the similarities between the Clancy novel and the World Trade Center travesty resembles one another.  For this reason, it is worth reading the political thriller to feel the \\"behind the scenes\\" happenings of this horrible tragedy that has befallen the United States.  I hope we can all learn from the World Trade Center tragedy by possibly paying closer attention to the political fiction writers that prophesy these horrible circumstances.<br />Insofar as the books literary value, it is an average Clancy thriller, but definitely worth reading after the circumstances in New York City.	2001-09-11
US	50776010	R3T094HA5LIFGO	0679723161	636015448	Lolita	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Satisfy the empty feeling of a lost 1st love	The most impressive thing about Lolita is the depth of the writing  especially considering it was written not in Nabakovs native tongue. Each sentence that occurs is a poetic undertaking and to truly appreciate it you sometimes need to read it more than once to take in the full flavor of the sentence. The book starts out as a confession of sorts from the protagonist, Humbert Humbert, the twisted, and some people would argue wicked man who is hopelessly in love with pedophilia. As a boy he had a brief sexual encounter with a girl, but the two were never able to fully satisfy themselves in complete sexual contact. As a result, he would argue, he was desperately craved the attention of young girls to still satisfy that empty feeling and premature lost of his first love. Along comes Dolores Haze, a nymphet of unspeakable charm and beauty and under the age of thirteen. The difference between fantasy and reality merge and the pedophiliac succeeds in debauching this young girl. However, the twist is that the girl actually seduces the adult, and he is insanely in love with a woman/child. The two take a car trip across America for two years while engaging in a perversion that some would call wicked and others a love act. The writing is splendid and the characters are multifaceted. I agree with both groups that the book is perverse, but it is also a vast love story.	2001-08-24
US	50776010	R6HLN6OYZR4LC	1570425671	383741816	Holidays on Ice	Books	4	44	49	N	N	Read right before Christmas for great laugh!	This book was a really fantastic collection of 6 short stories regarding the holiday season.  I had heard so much about David Sedaris and what a talented satirical writer he was, and I was much impressed by his ability to parody the American publics love/hate relationship during the holiday season.  His life as an elf in the Macys's shopping store in New York had me laughing out loud.  And the upbeat Christmas letter that includes the introduction of a Vietamese stepchild was hilarious.<br />I finished the book in two days of light reading and realized the author is truly dark and twisted but extremely talented.  \\"Me Talk Pretty One Day\\" is next on my list.  I guarantee you'll like this book, but just to add to the fervor of the writing, I suggest you read it a week before Christmas during your most hellish and frantic points of your life; it'll add to the hilarity of your situation.	2001-08-11
US	50776010	R15J35YOZUJBYA	0671797182	366654665	The Mind of God: The Scientific Basis for a Rational World	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Great subject matter but limited depth of explanations	The author's introduction of Stephen Hawking's theory on the origins of the universe and the clever way in which quantum physics explains time and space bending toward the massive gravity of the big bang is fascinating, as a result it was argued we do not need a creator per se because there is no beginning.  The blend of philosophical and scientific information was captivating.  In addition, the author expounded on the notion of a universe that is computer generated following the same universal laws, in other words our universe was created by a computer, and perhaps we are on the threshold of creating our very own universe (a la Isaac Asimov's \\"The Last Question.\\") - this theory was simulated in John Conway's \\"game of life\\" which can be viewed on the internet.<br />However, much of the book felt indecipherable - not necessarily because of the complexity, but the lack of depth of certain concepts.  It's possible that this book was not intended to be read by a scientific layperson, however, I feel that I am a clever enough person to understand many of these concepts.  The author consistently referred to other books or other chapters, which made this book feel more like a summary than a unique read.  He would eagerly explain a certain theorem and then disregard an adequate explanation (one glaring and frustrating area was his explanation of omega.)  I felt as if I should have read some of the books he was referring to rather than read his.<br />So the upshot of reading this book was that I fully intend to explore other scientific and philosophical issues that were covered in \\"The Mind of God.\\"  The subject mater is superb, but the depth of the explanations was very limited.	2001-08-08
US	50776010	R3FBLFJEULOY6K	0812694333	476681057	The Simpsons and Philosophy: The D'oh! of Homer (Popular Culture and Philosophy)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Learn about philosophy and rehash the best of the Simpsons	This is a wonderfully clever book that combines a quality social satire with philosophy.  For Simpson fans out there, you will learn about philosophy as much as you rehash Simpson episodes.  The best aspect of this book is that you really don't need to know anything about either of these subject to enjoy the book.  The first chapters start out strong, especially Lisa's chapter and the ambivalence toward American intellectualism.<br />What's more, after finishing this book I found myself wanting to learn more about Nietzschean and Aristotelian ideals.  The book does not introduce any new topics to philosophy, but puts historical thoughts into an amusing and relatable manners.  The end of the book seemed slightly repetitive in thought and somewhat confusing for a philosophy layperson like me.  Nevertheless, despite its sluggish lst few chapters, the beginning more than makes up for it.	2001-08-02
US	50776010	R2Q3MJBMN0NWKC	0449213358	241253921	Hawaii	Books	3	5	10	N	N	Not the Michener perspective I expected	This book was not the Michener perspective I was expecting.  While vacationing in Hawaii I wanted to learn more about the islands and its fascinating history that had been described to us by a flamboyant kayaking guide.  He spoke of the inter-island wars and various ritual grounds throughout the islands - what was mana and kapu.  The first book I had read of Michener's was Centennial, which illuminated the American Indians and the first explorers and seemed to balance the two different societies. Ten years later reading my second Michener novel, Hawaii, I realize he is not as fine a writer as I remember.<br />Hawaii proved to be far inferior to Centennial and spent a great deal of time on the missionaries and their unfortunate forceful conversion of the native Hawaiians.  The book started out with the painful and violent uprising of the Hawaiian volcanoes.  The main characters started out around 900 C.E., with Teroro of Bora Bora leading the first expedition to Hawaii.  This portion of the book was what I expected and I felt like I learned a great deal during these first two chapters.  However, Michener inexplicably skips ahead to the 18th century and the proselytism of the Hawaiian natives.  It felt as if the thousand years he skipped over were insignificant, which I found disappointing.<br />The missionary conversion and importation of various Asian societies seemed to drag on a bit too long.  I did find the American corporate coup d'&eacute;tat of the Hawaiian monarchy interesting, but it dragged on endlessly; and then the bombing of Pearl Harbor was hastily written.  Further, even though it is a 1000 page book and mistakes are expected, I found way too many grammatical and spelling errors throughout.  The book ended on a better note with the notion of the Golden Men and a new age of tolerance, but I was looking forward to finishing the book - definitely not a great book, try Centennial instead.	2001-07-25
US	50776010	R2NRJ2LEX1QYPE	0140445285	755691955	Crime and Punishment (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Epic story of society and consciousness	This was an enjoyable and classically difficult Russian authored book to read (the other I have read is Tolstoy.)  The most striking similarities between Tolstoy and Dostoyevsky are their intricate use of rich characters, immense dialogue, subplots, and foreshadowing.<br />The book starts out with a meager and demented man, Raskolnikov, shutting himself off from society, but still interestingly enough, shows much compassion and pleasure in the company of the downtrodden.  Raskolnikov wants to prove a theory to himself, and perhaps to the world, that powerful men are able and predictably will seize power by force and are justified in doing so.  In other words, Raskolnikov sought after a proof of his belief that he could murder a villainous old pawnbroker and be able to maintain a guilt free conscience.  In order for powerful people to complete this task, they must separate their feelings and morals from society and demand the isolation that waits for them.<br />However, Raskolnikov has a weakness for the downtrodden victims, and seems to seek their approval.  As a result,  he confides in a prostitute, Sonia, who happens to represent all of the maltreated people of the world.  With a confession, Raskolnikov's world is not as it seems and his preposterous theory is in ruin.<br />Crime and Punishment is a  very difficult, but valuable and memorable read.  I highly recommend reading this book, and even I would suggest  reading the cliff notes version to follow up on the important symbolism saturating the novel.  This book is not just about a theory, but about human society, class structure, and consciousness.	2001-06-10
US	50776010	R1H6VGYSMBC03C	0375406328	449261090	Lying Awake	Books	4	9	20	N	N	An inspired epileptic nun	This is a charming book about life in a Carmelite convent for an inspired nun.  Sister John of the Cross, the main character in this novel, writes poetry and books for hours on end, and has heavenly visions of god - a feeling of divine ecstasy.  However, when she finds out she has epilepsy, and these visions are not a closeness to her god, but rather a tumor above her right ear, her world crumbles.  Has she wasted her entire life devoting all of her time to god?<br />What' most interesting in this story is an \\"intern\\" nun, Sister Miriam, that is deciding on whether she wants to be part of the nunnery.  She takes solace in a nun that seems inspired, Sister John of the Cross, but lo and behold, this inspired nun is only an epileptic.  As a reader you feel pity for the overly zealous religiosity of these nuns and quietly root for the intern nun to leave the convent and try to entertain a semi normal life.  In a subtle way, Salzman brings up some interesting points about what type of people typically join the celibate life of the religious - typically women who have been emotionally abused in some way.  Sister John of the Cross is no exception - abandoned by her mother at an early age.<br />This book explored why we have faith and it also examined the fruitfulness of our labors.  You admire the tenacity of the nuns' spirits, but pity their celibate and hollow lives.	2001-03-16
US	50776010	R3KFJ9LN9OGXLN	0679750924	980561990	Cock & Bull	Books	3	4	6	N	N	When men and women switch roles	A definite oddity of a book that explores how and why men and women are infinitely different.  One woman grows fully functional male genitalia and conversely a male is disfigured with female genitals in the back of his knee.  What's most interesting about the books is the emotional metamorphosis, not necessarily the physical one that these two independent people experience.<br />I liked the idea of the book, however I found the vocabulary to be grandiloquent at times.  Reading this book with a dictionary nearby was a necessity for me.  This isn't necessarily a weakness, however I found that the book should have been a little more decipherable for being such a small novelette.  The story itself was grand; the vocabulary just confused and overshadowed the narrative.  I liked the book, and I recommend it, just be prepared to sit with a dictionary while reading.	2001-03-13
US	50776010	R1BNIFA4FI2T1A	0929712315	819556377	Knock-Out Blackjack: The Easiest Card-Counting System Ever Devised	Books	5	24	31	N	N	From a beginner�s prospective	This is the first book I have ever read about blackjack and gambling.  I know, as many of you already do, that Blackjack does afford the player the best advantage out of any game in the casino.  I have never sat down at a Blackjack table because I knew that without knowing the proper counting and basic strategy techniques, the house would always win in the long run.  I had read on the Internet of various card-counting methodologies, however they all seemed to complicated and discouraging to ever consider seriously proceeding with (unless of course I had a degree from MIT, which I don't.)<br />Alas, I read a review of Knock-Out in the Chicago Sun-Times, which alluded to my concerns over difficulty.  This book is straightforward and interesting to read, and the card-counting technique is regarded as being simple to use comparatively to other popular techniques.  Even though, admittedly, this will take some practice, I am confident I can master Knock-Out with enough patience and I am not discouraged to the point of not bothering to try.  I did find it somewhat surprising how much money and time is needed to have an satisfactory amount of return with relatively low risk (the fact that you start to max your betting with only a 2% advantage over the house is a testament to this fact.)  Nevertheless, the book only took a couple of days to read, and it was truly hard to set down.  Even though this is the first Blackjack book I have ever read, from a beginner's prospective, I wholeheartedly recommend this book.  Wish me luck!	2001-02-19
US	50776010	R2U7UPC2ZB8HOB	0679763996	458475501	The Moral Animal: Why We Are, the Way We Are: The New Science of Evolutionary Psychology	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Dichotomy of the superego and the moral animal	The moral animal is really appealing novel.  I have long believed in Natural selection, but was always troubled by death being easily explained away due to a person's supposed inferiority.  I believe this book and Darwin's \\"new paradigm\\" does a better and more adequate job of explaining how war and crime and actions against humanity are not the strength of the strong against the weak, but rather it is an outlook on the overall selfishness of our nature.  The book is very readable and fascinating in the gender roles that Wright has laid out.  This book very much reminds me of another book I read, Influence, the Psychology of Persuasion.<br />The dichotic relationship between our animal nature (superego) and our moral conscience state is an interesting impasse.  This book definitely explored the reasons for our emotions and why natural selection infused these beliefs in our mental organ.  Knowing this, we can now better understand and control our sometimes-illogical behavior.	2001-02-11
US	50776010	R3AJXVZ06O3SCJ	0449911659	437546793	Rabbit, Run	Books	5	8	13	N	N	Rabbit runs from responsibilities	John Updike's first in a series of \\"rabbit\\" novels is about a washed up high school basketball star that struggles to find success during his post-basketball crowning.  Harry \\"Rabbit\\" Angstrom finds himself running from mostly everything - including his wife, child, job, and himself.  He shacks up with a local whore, Ruth, and relates to Ruth really well in the sexual manner, but seems awkward during everyday situations.  He inevitable becomes attached to both his wife and Ruth and has a hard time deciding which fate suits him better - or another alternative is neither lifestyle.<br />This is the first Updike novel I have read, and I was so impressed by the impact of each sentence and the deep rooted meaning and symbolism in every passage.  I think in a way, Updike has unfairly been labeled a misogynist, even though he has little respect for Rabbit's wife, Janice.<br />I found the book to be extremely sad, but quite touching.  I imagine many men have gone through this agonizing ordeal of not knowing where there life is heading and if it is even heading in the right direction.  Some just run from their problems - like Rabbit.	2001-01-08
US	50776010	R3K4RJ2409IJZ4	014028088X	336784816	The Salon.com Reader's Guide to Contemporary Authors	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Nice reference and great caricatures	I have really found this book to be exceptionally well written and honest - it does not try to hide the fact that authors such as Grisham and King are more or less commercial writers and not truly what we would or should consider contemporary authors.<br />After finishing, or in the middle of a novel, I usually read the authors bio in this reference guide.  I also really enjoy at the end of each bio there is a section that mentions what authors are similar and/or describe what other authors were influenced based of his/her work.  By the book if you are interested in reading.	2001-01-03
US	50776010	R344VEXA0UISWZ	0140281606	956359818	The Adventures of Augie March (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	4	16	18	N	N	A treatise of personal freedom	Saul Bellow writing is very poetic and beautifully scripted - it's not straightforward to read, but then again since Bellow is examining the purposes of our lives, I wouldn't expect the novel and writing style to oversimplify our predicament.  Augie is a poor Jewish boy growing up in Chicago - \\"that somber city\\" - in a broken home with his dictatorial Grandmother, abandoned mother, and two diametrically opposed brothers (Simon and George.)  He finds his brother Simon obsessed with material facts and riches that he cannot possess.  Whereas Augie maintains a carefree life experimenting and dabbling with various encounters with different people and places in Chicago, Mexico, and Europe - never quite satisfied or convinced of the importance of each situation.  Augie resists the Machiavellian pursuits of his older brother Simon, and is willing to live as a pauper, and as a result, not be controlled by money, wives, children, and especially responsibilities.<br />Augie's plight is like any other introspective journey.  What is my purpose?  Why am I here?  Bellow, I believe tries to not necessarily answer this question, but rather appreciates the quandary that many of us find ourselves in.  At one point Augie's epiphany - the essential and natural course and purpose of life is each person's axial lines.  Freedom of thought and emotions - and love our what keeps Augie in line with his purpose.<br />This is not an easy book to read, but a fascinating and poetic journey that requires time and patience from the reader.  I am considering reading it again to soak in all of the details I missed.  I wholeheartedly recommend this book; despite the ruminations of other reviewers that took offense to the existential tract of Saul Bellow, I believe that whether you believe in a chaotic or an ordered loving universe - either way you'll find the book interesting and the dilemma facing humans an interesting mess.  The book took me 5 weeks to read - I have a voracious appetite for books and usually read them in much less time - so those of you considering reading this book - make sure you are in it for the long haul!oks and usually read them in much less time - so those of you considering reading this book - make sure you are in it for the long haul!	2000-12-26
US	50776010	R1SOVAR24WF40D	0679756450	310711579	Portnoy's Complaint	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Much better that Holden Caulfield!	This book is the extremist version of Holden Caufield's abhorrence of modern day culture and the problems that are encountered by male teens.  And when I say the \\"extremist\\" version I mean it.  This book is hysterical - the situations that the protagonist, Portnoy, puts himself through are unbelievable.  Holden Caufield can continue to fantasize himself as the Catcher in the Rye, however, I much prefer, the perverted and convoluted mindset of Alex Portnoy and the sexual tribulations that control his life.  I can't say that I identify with Alex Portnoy, but I do find his rants and superstitions much more amusing and fascinating to listen to.  I shouldn't be surprised at the randy writing of Phillip Roth after reading his much acclaimed Sabbath's Theater - but I have to admit the uninhibited and uncontrolled outbursts in the book were indeed hysterical and surprising.<br />I'd like to further note, that I very much enjoyed Roth's afterward, and I'd like to know if what he wrote was true about his discovery of a piece of paper left behind in a restaurant in Chicago that helped shape what Roth wrote about in his writing career.  I do highly recommend this book - it is intended for someone with an open mind and frankness about sexuality.	2000-11-27
US	50776010	R2D2PRYFCT7O7R	0380506092	242035412	The Natural	Books	4	90	97	N	N	The Other Roy Hobbs	I never realized how different the book version is a compared to the popular motion picture version starring Robert Redford.  As many of you know the protagonist, Roy Hobbs was a natural at baseball, but his career is sidetracked by a crazed woman that kills famous sports athletes with a silver bulleted gun right before his tryout with the Chicago Cubs.  Roy never had a chance to play with a Major League Baseball club until he was in his mid-thirties and well past his prime and was signed to a minimal salary to play for the NY Knights.  Despite his age, Roy played better than anyone else during stretches in the baseball season, and raised the expectations of the Knights ballclub from a bunch of losers to true contenders.<br />In his story, Malamud explains the highs and lows of any sports athlete - being in the zone and hitting slumps.  The major differences between Robert Redford performing like Roy Hobbs, and the true Roy Hobbs in Malamud's book, is that Hobbs is not superhuman - or a \\"Wonderboy\\" as his bat exclaims.  Robert Redford plays a mysterious Herculean athlete that carries his team to a pennant.  Whereas, Malamud's Hobbs is a normal guy with exceptional ballplayer skills - but he makes human mistakes.  I think what most readers of `The Natural' will be most surprised at is the ending of the book - it builds up climatically just as the movie does, however the end is much different.  I liked the book very much, and I am an admirer of Malamud's writing style.  I recommend the book; I loved the movie, and I comparatively loved the book - but in a different way.	2000-10-12
US	50776010	R2L38KDGE88JD3	034536676X	680934194	The World According to Garp	Books	5	14	18	N	N	Engaging, funny, and poignant	First let me say that this is the first time I have read John Irving - I have been interested in reading some of his novels after seeing the movie, \\"The Cider House Rules.\\"  I chose to read Irving's \\"The World According to Garp\\" on a whim, and I was not disappointed.  The characters are engaging and fun to deal with.  The peculiarities of TS Garp's personality are not surprising and you find yourself empathizing with his unique situations.<br />Beginning the story, Jenny Fields - an independent minded nurse in the 1940s - slashes an officer in a movie theater when he tried to put his hand up her dress.  She had no desire to be in a sexual relationship, yet she wanted to be a mother.  This paradox is solved when she impregnates herself with a hapless technical sergeant that was injured during the war and reduced to the mentality of a newborn child.  In the seclusion of his room with Technical Sergeant Garp, she is pregnant on the first and last time she ever has sex.  She names her child after the Sergeant, TS Garp.<br />The young Garp and Jenny attend the Steering academy for boys and that is where Garp finds his first love, Helen.  She is an avid reader; he attempts to impress her by writing short stories.  Thus the writing career for Garp has started.  His mother is known as a feminist leader after the published of her book, \\"Sexual Suspects.\\"  Feminist extremists adore her, and Sexist extremist hate her - Garp is regrettably involved with the whole lot of them.  This is Garp's life, and the suspicious delusions that protective fathers endure.  In Garp's world, he finally realizes that we are all terminal case, and those are the most important to fight for.<br />A very entertaining book, and I have every intention to read more by John Irving.	2000-10-05
US	50776010	R30VEZ9BWYGKY0	0385484518	725864791	Tuesdays with Morrie: An Old Man, A Young Man and Life's Greatest Lesson	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Morrie is an inspiration.  The book is not.	This book has entered mainstream culture thanks to the promotion of Oprah and word of mouth.  Although the book is a sweet and somewhat enjoyable of a read, I don't believe it necessarily deserves the accolades and recognition that it has received in the last year.  Tuesdays with Morrie is a story about a rekindled friendship between a professor dying of ALS and a student that needs guidance with his relationships.  Approximately 11 Tuesdays are spent with the dying professor and the book describes how the once vivacious man slowly withers away physically but grows stronger in spirit.  The student, Mitch Albom learns about the importance of relationships, loving each other, and loving oneself.<br />It is not the best-written book but the beliefs that permeate throughout the novel are important.  Morrie was a man that was very much in touch with the philosophies that the great Zionist, Martin Buber discusses in his book, \\"I and Thou.\\"  Tuesdays with Morrie is a good book, but not a great one, and has benefited by the Oprah-effect no doubt.  For a simple cliff note version of Martin Buber's philosophies read this book - if you want to read about the importance and beauty of relationships and love, pick up \\"I and Thou.\\"  Tuesdays with Morrie is a sweet book that reminds of many of the inspirational books that people put next to the lavatory while sitting on their behind.  If you need some reading material for the commode, I recommend this novel - otherwise borrow the book from someone and see for yourself.  Morrie is definitely an inspiration, but the book was slightly disappointing.	2000-09-24
US	50776010	RFNBR0H234AR1	0684833395	458864358	Catch-22	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Lose vs. Lose - nobody can win wars	Heller's book has held such widespread acclaim that it's premise is actually considered a new word in the English Language.  Catch-22 according to the dictionary is \\"a situation in which a desired outcome or solution is impossible to attain because of a set of inherently illogical rules or conditions.\\"  Joseph Heller created the idiom and I believe its widespread use in the English-speaking world is proof that this book is genius.  The books protagonist is named Yossarian and he is a bombardier during World War II.  What is most baffling for Yossarian is that everyone is trying to kill him, people he knows and does not know personally - the Germans, the pilots that fly the planes, the Colonels that force him to be there.<br />What's most baffling is that Yossarian cannot find a logical way to remove himself from the situation.  The Doctors tell him that he may be grounded if he's crazy.  If he continues to fly the missions he would be crazy, but if he asks the doctors to ground him for being crazy they could automatically deduct that he is quite sane and trying to preserve his life.  That's the catch.  Catch-22 - there is no possible situation that could work - a Lose vs. Lose circumstances.<br />Lets just say that Heller thinks little of the situations that men and women must endure during their military careers during a time of war.  The book is poignant, funny, and very readable. It's a long book, but I was sorry to see it end.  For me - Yossarian will still live on and continue to persevere and fight against these Catch-22s!  On a macro scale, we must ask ourselves why we glorify the victories (or losses) that our country undergoes during a time of war - have we won or have we lost the battle - or does it matter?  Did we both lose?  In other words, war is a Catch-22 - nobody wins.  Read this book!	2000-09-20
US	50776010	R2FOQ54V0YW6T	0440180295	837891915	Slaughterhouse-Five (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Everybody dies.  So it goes�	The book is first of all an easy read and one could easily finish this novel in less than week.  The prose is uncomplicated but the timeline jumps  back and forth through different perios in Billy Pilgrim's life.  One  widespread factor that remains throughout the book is that everyone dies.  \\"So it goes.\\"  The way in which I interpreted the book is that individuals  are swept up in the entire global/political state of affairs and many of us  unfortunately do not have a choice about where our lives will lead us.  It's not that there isn't any free will, but rather we are all subject to  the circumstances around us and we must deal with that.  The only way we  can exist is in the present - the past and future are out of our grasps.<br />This limiting way of looking at life is explained to Billy by some  affable aliens from the planet Tralfamadore.  He swept up into their way of  thinking when he was in Europe fighting the Germans in WWII.  He witnesses  the overall cruelty of humans toward other humans and is surprisingly  indifferent toward the destruction because it is out of his hands.  So it  goes...  Read the book with an open mind and enjoy yourself while you read  it.	2000-09-01
US	50776010	R244K2ATLFUBSU	0393319296	728974914	Invisible Monsters: A Novel	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Looked forward to getting it over with	I know as a person born in Generation X, I should feel the outrage and disdain for popular culture that Palahniuk feels.  After reading his  popular `Fight Club' and subsequently watching the movie, I was awed by his  interpretation of men and their need to hit the proverbial rock bottom  before they can truly live their life.  A friend recommended `Invisible  Monsters' to me and told me it was one of the best books she had read and  it completely changed her life.  Well to cut to the chase, I didn't feel  the same way about it - in fact I was looking forward to finishing  it.<br />The book this time flip flops to a woman who needs to hit rock bottom  by disfiguring herself with self inflicted facial wounds.  The book has  similar plots and twists that Fight Club provided, but as I read the book I  felt like every twist Palahniuk introduced was an expectation and I didn't  feel the shock he intended.  In this way the book was predictable.  What  made Fight Club such a wonderful book seemed supplanted in the Invisible  Monsters follow up.  I'd say it's an average book at best, and don't read  it for it's prose - pick it up as an easy and cheaply entertaining ride.  It gets 2 ½ stars from me, but I'll give it the benefit of the doubt and  give it three for the Amazon rating system.	2000-08-16
US	50776010	R340U0EBUEE5M8	0374525757	37889932	The Complete Stories (FSG Classics)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Rich characters and wonderful prose	This is the first time I read Malamud based off a recommendation from my well read grandfather.  I asked him who are the best modern Jewish fiction  writers.  Bellows, Roth, and Malamud are definitely the best he noted.  I  was very impressed by the depth of all of the characters introduced in this  novel and I was especially pleased at the constant reappearance of an  artist down on his luck but completely in love with making art.  And that  is exactly what Malamud does - create art.<br />Many of his characters are the  outcast types that feel like outsiders hardly understand them and their  passions (we've all felt that way at times haven't we?)  Many of the  protagonists are writers, artists, store owners, janitors - an ordinary  walk of life.  I recommend this book despite the incoherency of the last  couple short stories - but don't worry the 50something before it are  wonderful.	2000-08-11
US	50776010	RS0RBDHJO6TST	155738486X	573597831	Option Volatility &amp; Pricing: Advanced Trading Strategies and Techniques	Books	5	51	53	N	N	Great book for prospective traders	With the popularity rise in options and option strategies, I must admit  this is a great book to get started with.  I am a clerk at the CBOE and  have studied this book thoroughly, and in my experience it's the best  options tutorial out there.  I have also sampled the John Hull book and the  official Options Institute book.  The writing is very readable and it does  not bog you down with overly complex derivations of each formula (there is  an appendix that does derive and explain the details of the Black and  Scholes model though.)<br />If you're serious about trading I highly recommend  reading this book first - it'll be a useful tool.  Working at CBOE I have  seen many other clerks studying their Natenberg books during the slower  times.  Learning arb (hand signaling) and understanding what you are arbing  are the keys for a successful options trader.  This can be useful for  someone just getting started in options as well or with prior experience.	2000-08-11
US	50776010	R2F0RP9D181B5	0684717255	999150341	I And Thou	Books	5	28	31	N	N	An obvious -  but thought provoking essay on relationships	This book was truly amazing and I continual refer to it with my  relationships with other people.  And that is the central commandment - to  realize that we have relationships with people, trees, dogs, and god (an  I-You relationship).  We do not experience the abovementioned as objects  (an I-It relationship) but they have life that reciprocates our actions.  Buber explains our relationships and how we should go about interpreting  them.  For example, animals and plants are a relationship beneath language,  people our related to within language, and finally the eternal you (god) is  above our function of language.<br />\\"Feeling dwell in man, but man dwells in  his love.  This is no metaphor but actuality: love does not cling to an I,  as if the You were merely its \\"content\\" or object; it is between I and You.  Whoever does not know this...does not know love...\\"<br />The only way one can  find themselves is to experience the relationship.  I highly recommend this  book, but I do suggest a dictionary nearby because the wording can get  rather tricky.  Admittedly it is a difficult read, but taking your time  with each paragraph and rereading when necessary, I am confident that if  you truly want to find out more about a simple but thought provoking  philosophy you will find yourself done with the book in a matter of weeks.	2000-06-22
US	50776010	RYOGNZN0RY57L	0812589041	401439625	Ender's Game	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A little kid that saves the world -but too young to do that?	Despite the \\"hokeyness\\" of the cover of the book, the contents within are quite good.  I read this book within a week and had a hard time putting the book down, it was a quick read and I anticipate reading the follow-up  novels.  The hero, Ender, is a 6-year old genius child that is slated to  save the world.  He is put through intensive and almost abusive situations  in order to create the mind of an adept commander.  Before his 2nd stage in  duty, Ender ends up on Earth for a time of reflection at a wilderness  retreat - this is one of the saddest part of the books.  <br />I liked the  book very much, however, I found the age of the characters to be too young  for the mature situations.  I'm not sure how believable it is for a 6-year  old to have the sophisticated thoughts that Ender displays.  Nevertheless I  found the book very enjoyable and recommend	2000-06-22
US	50776010	R1DUCXLVHNSMIX	0345410017	383457570	Fahrenheit 451 (A Del Rey book)	Books	4	122	135	N	N	How prophetic a very good science fiction writer can be	I read this book about 18 months ago, but I am writing a review now because the book came up during a mealtime conversation.  We talked about how prophetic a very good science fiction writer can be.  This is  definitely the case in Bradbury's Fahrenheit 451.  Guy Montag lives in a  world that represses freedom of speech, creativity, and the core of human  spirit.  People, including his estranged wife, are drones glued to these  pseudo realities in television.  It describes senseless trivia shows (can  anyone say \\"Who wants to be a millionaire?\\") and awfully realistic soap  operas that his wife affectionatly refers to as the \\"family.\\"<br />What is  most disturbing is that as televisions and technology become more  \\"artificially intelligent\\" we will face some of the brainless drivel (we  already do) that the major media networks provide us.<br />As a fireman, Guy  Montag starts fires with books as the culprit - rather than putting them  out.  The idea is that books can make some people feel bad and as a result  we should get rid of them - in other words books can be controversial and  our country does not need disputes.  The enforcer is a mechanical dog  (which I found a little unrealistic and distracting) that injects a lethal  poison into any opponents.  Despite the silliness of the mechanical dog -  the underlying theme is fantastic - open your mind and save the beauty of  spontaneity and creativity of the human spirit.	2000-06-01
US	50776010	R331Q2413ONFPK	0679775439	730850906	The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle: A Novel	Books	5	27	31	N	N	Surreal and unusually addictive to read	This book was one of the weirdest and finest books I have read.  The experiences were a surreal convoluted epic that I wish hadn't ended.  The story starts off simply enough about Mr. Okada losing his cat, then his  wife, and then finally his own mind.  In a bizarre fashion all of the odd  characters and situations that Okada finds himself in are all related in  some way which is eventually summed together at the end.<br />What was most  fascinating is the elements of Buddhism, the search for nothingness to  really get in touch with one's consciousness.  Okada finds the strength and  ability to achieve `emptiness' at the bottom of a dark well.  In the well,  the author puts us in touch with the most bizarre adventures in Okada's  consciousness.<br />This is the first time I have read a book by a Japanese  author.  Just as each culture has their own unique style of writing (the  Russians with their incredibly complex characters) this Japanese author had  a wonderful surreal simplicity to the writing that made you want to never  put the book down.  I highly recommend the book - it is incredibly easy to  read, but so complex in thought.  I have every intention of reading more of  Murakami!	2000-05-25
US	50776010	R2M31RNUDFUQK1	0891344632	697233708	Basic Oil Painting Techniques	Books	3	14	15	N	N	Step by Step starter	This painting book would be more aptly described as a tutorial on painting different subject matter.  IN other words, style is not really considered, but rather this book is a step by step guide on how to put the paint on the  canvas effectively.  If you want to read about differing styles I would  recommend Galton's Oil Painting encyclopedia.  This book in contrast, has  step by step techniques for painting flowers, portraits, land and  seascapes.  I found the portraits to be very helpful in their color  recommendations and starter ideas.  Nevertheless, I was looking for a  better-rounded book that covers style as well as technique.  If you are new  to painting and have no idea where to start, this book might be for you -  if you are looking for inspiration on differing styles than try Galton's  book.	2000-05-24
US	50776010	RJVYZEHY2XSY0	0316769487	862964341	The Catcher in the Rye	Books	3	3	4	N	N	It did not seem profound	Your asking why 3 stars.  Well honestly I would have made it 3 1/2 if that justifies it.  The reason why it didn't get the standard amazon.com ranking of 5 stars is because it just did not seem profound enough or motivating  enough to get anymore.  I was always jealous of not being able to read this  in high school (for some reason it was not required) and I made a point of  reading it someday (afterall this book was voted the best book by high  school seniors this year in Illinois.)<br />Salinger did a wonderful job  writing in a first person adolescent style speech, and the character  desiring to be the 'catcher in the rye' seemed ironic.  Nevertheless, I  finished the book shrugging my shoulders and thinking 'what was the point?'  It was well written, but I am not sure why it was voted as the best book  by high schoolers - if any book should have had that honor I would think it  would have been Harper Lee's book, To Kill a Mockingbird - which was also  simply written but definitely felt more profound than this.  Holden  Caulfield is a typical cynical teenager that really has a hard time dealing  with the senselessness of humanity.  Nevertheless, I just didn't have any  feelings toward the book afterward and it didn't feel as profound as many  other reviewers felt it was.<br />I think everyone should read the book, but  if you're over the age of 18, I think you'll find yourself saying - I wish  I would have read this a few years ago because I feel I have outgrown the  attitudes that Holden expresses.  Will I have my kids read it some day?  Absolutley, but would I say it was the best book I've read.  No.	2000-05-11
US	50776010	RLNE406WT1COF	0679772596	369774091	Sabbath's Theater	Books	5	0	2	N	N	An alter-ego	This is a book that'll make you laugh out loud with the sad and disturbing antics of Mickey Sabbath.  I cam to realize that many of the things that Mickey did are a Freudian alter-ego of the self - that's the scary part!  What's more, the scenes are played out in constant flash backs and  forwards, so you truly get the sense of the disturbing realities  surrounding Mickey - death.  It's inevitable and Mickey abhors reality for  that very reason.<br />One more reason to read this is the bathroom scene at  his friend Norm Cowans - I won't tell you what happened, but I found myself  cringing and laughing at the utter awkwardness and the bravo that Mickey  carried himself with.  Superb book!	2000-04-26
US	50776010	R1LXAXIYO56JE3	0688085067	795328940	Jewish Literacy: The Most Important Things to Know About the Jewish Religion, Its People and Its History	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Great Reference Guide	This is a great reference guide for non-Jews and non-religious Jews.  I have browsed through most of the chapters, and have found that it answers most of the questions that people ask about my ancestors.<br />Even though it  is designed like a reference guide, I am considering picking it up and  reading it like a novel	2000-04-21
US	50776010	R2UDYK3NQ72230	0671044508	632060708	Casino: Love and Honor in Las Vegas	Books	2	3	15	N	N	Average	Not a great mafia book - I found myself bored at some points.It really was a little boring at times.  For a great mafia book, youcan not go wrong with the Godfather (the only decent Puzo book in my mind.)<br />THe 1st person format I think was a weakpoint in this book	2000-04-21
US	50776010	R26MYTKUMDBIDP	0805420460	338167986	Mere Christianity	Books	2	15	45	N	N	Brimming with Hellfire	I found myself fearful of the Christian religion.  After I read this I felt like saying to myself, &quot;Thanks Jesus, since I don't believe in you I suppose I am going to Hell - thanks for being such a great  sport!&quot;<br />A Christian friend reccommended this book to me and at times  the book was threatining and downright scary.  I suppose if I were a  fundamentalist I would be applauding his prose, but as a non-Christian I  find it frightening that people believe this stuff	2000-04-20
US	50776010	R1Z91VY8ENSXJX	0762400889	11103182	The Encyclopedia of Oil Painting Techniques	Books	4	40	44	N	N	Very Helpful	A very good starter book on oil painting and techniques.  I believe I have used some of the tips and strategies successfully.  If your interested in painting, have this next to your canvas	2000-04-19
US	50776010	R1YPCZ6VR141QB	0449226387	881440442	This Perfect Day	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Mmmmmm, Tasty Cakes	I read this book years ago, and I still remember most of the characters - that's how great this book is.  It's one of my favorite futuristic books and I know everyone will love it.	2000-04-19
US	50776010	RTKFKJ9TYZGJV	0684827034	433899403	The Motley Fool Investment Guide: How the Fools Beat Wall Street's Wise Men and How You Can Too	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Ideas for beginners	This is a good book for beginners intersted in finance.  Their web site and message boards are more comprehenisve for the 'fool' teachings.  Nevertheless, I still reccommend this book for beginners in investments	2000-04-19
US	50776010	R2PIZ6OH0HND2C	0385482485	460076600	The Gifts of the Jews (Hinges of History)	Books	5	5	9	N	N	How the Jews changed the world	I suppose this book adds some amunition to the notion of &quot;choseness,&quot; which has antagonized the rest of the religious community.  The Jews have changed the way we look and feel about the world,  and one has to consider the choseness label.<br />The rules in which we play  this game of life are based off the laws developed by the rabbinical sages  thousands  of years ago.<br />An amazing and insightful book	2000-04-19
US	50776010	R1JTNIQGSUGM5O	0060645741	413291647	The Jew in the Lotus: A Poet's Re-Discovery of Jewish Identity in Buddhist India	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Reopened a new faith	Great book that reestablished my yearning to find a esoteric faith through Judaism.  This book is a great book to start your journey with.	2000-04-19
US	50776010	RG7U32BU0SXGL	0688128165	978667155	Influence: The Psychology of Persuasion	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Amazing how we act	Learn the tricks of a politician and used car salesmen!  Don't get caught offguard anymore - highly informative book	2000-04-19
US	50776010	RWCESQLMMV64C	0761519645	910224725	God: The Evidence: The Reconciliation of Faith and Reason in a Postsecular World	Books	1	6	17	N	N	Repetitive dribble	This is not what I expected it to be.  I noticed that some paragraphs from the introduction were thrown about throughout the book.  It seemed like this was a 25-page book at best, and the publisher forced him to stretch it  out for 170 pages.  I'd have to say that it was boring and repetitive - you  can easily get the gist of the book after the first 30-40 pages.  In my  opinion - don't waste your time buying this.<br />My other complaint is the  Christianity anthropocentrism.  Had the author allowed other religions to  be in the mix, it would be more readable and believable.  Finally, I found  his egotism to be in the way of his writing.  At times, I felt like he was  looking down upon some of the greatest minds of our century (e.g. Hawkings,  Freud, Einstein, etc.)  Please!	2000-02-15
