US	50774697	RFD00FZYOCFCY	0843952008	832534280	Fears Unnamed	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Horror at its most frightening.	When I picked this up, I had no idea that I would still be thinking about some of the stories in here a week after I put the book down.  Usually when you pick up a book like this, you find at least one disappointing novella but Lebbon writes four frightening tales to curdle your blood.  That said, the last story was one of the best I have read in a very long time.  From the opening of the little boy hearing something at his window, I couldn't put this story down.  Since I was little, the thought of zombies has always scared me witless and centering the story around a child made it more real to me.  Each part of the story works at those little fears unnamed and their chase through a dying nightmare world stays with you long after the book is closed.  The characters were well written and the story was also very touching at times.<br />The other stories were also nightmarish and fantastic enough to keep me glued to the book.  My second favorite was the first one about an archaelogist finding a lost city of the dead.  Still, the other two stories were chilling and you won't find a bad one in the bunch.<br />Smart, terrifying and never boring, I will wait to read more of Lebbon's work.  The best!	2004-04-12
US	50774697	R1C3W1AY0LHI2B	0843951036	955417858	No Sanctuary	Books	5	14	15	N	N	One of Laymon's best novels!	\\"No Sanctuary\\" is the kind of book that makes you realize just how great Richard Laymon was.  His ability to keep you turning the pages and the surprises always makes for interesting reading and this one doesn't diappoint.<br />When Bert decides to go camping in an isolated area in the Sierra Nevadas, Richard is hesitant to go along.  He has a fear of camping for good reason and afraid she would find someone else to go along, he decides to conquer his fear and join her.  On the other side of town is Gillian, a seemingly normal woman with a penchant for breaking in people's homes when they are on vacation.  After years of doing this, she is horrified to find out the home she is currently residing in is that of a vicious madman who takes his victims to...you guessed it...the same place Bert and Richard are camping.  The suspense builds and interweaves the two stories as well as Bert and Richard's fears of three teenage boys they encounter on the trail.  Also they meet up with Andrea and Bonnie which adds the typical sexual tension and temptation that comes with one guy out in the woods with three good-looking women.<br />I won't give away any more plot details but you soon begin to wonder what is going to happen and just who is stalking Bert and Richard in the woods and just what will happen to Gillian in that house?<br />\\"No Sanctuary\\" will hook you from beginning to end and the horrifying ending will make you wonder just how safe it is to traipse in the woods.  Typical of Laymon there are also the campy elements that makes his work so entertaining and of course, it always leaves you wishing he was still hear writing his great horror novels.	2003-08-17
US	50774697	RODF5KXI9PQS	0843952180	453244711	Darkfall	Books	5	20	22	N	N	This book truly horrified me!	Its always rare to find a book that is original and as compelling as Law's &quot;Darkfall&quot; and this is one to read if you enjoy smart horror novels.  Its Christmas Eve and the employees at an office building are dancing and drinking the night away during a thunderstorm.  When the caretaker of the building begins to hear ear-splitting sounds, he rushes up to find everyone has disappeared and the only sign of trouble is a severed hand.  Inspecter Cardiff, an unhappy suicidal man, is called to the scene and from there the story unfolds.  He has heard this story before and he has police go find a thief by<br />the name of Jimmy Devlin to help unlock the mystery of what has happened.<br />What none of them realize is that what is happening here is even more horrifying than thought.  The thunderstorm isn't normal and the occupants of the building have been absorbed into the walls and floor.  What is worse is that some of them are returning in monstrous form and its a struggle to survive the night.  At the same time, they have to struggle with a team of secret agents being led by a madman bent on self-destruction and &quot;enlightenment&quot;<br />This is the single best horror novel I've read in years and its sure to become a horror classic.  There isn't a boring moment and its viceral horror at its finest.<br />It doesn't get better than this.	2003-08-17
US	50774697	R1BJXCYBKP4VB9	0520225309	506564317	Mister Jelly Roll: The Fortunes of Jelly Roll Morton, New Orleans Creole and "Inventor of Jazz"	Books	5	14	15	N	N	An incredible book!	This is one of the rare books for it can be enjoyed by just about anyone who picks it up.  Its the amazing account of the life of Jelly Roll Morton, one of the best jazz pianists of all time.  Though a braggart and troubled man, he created some of the very best pieces of jazz.  The book goes into his life from his childhood and his time working at Storyville to the very troubled end in the early forties.  You learn about his family, his troubled relationships with Anita and Mabel and how he went from being wildly successful to dying virtually forgotten.  Voodoo, New Orleans, jazz and Creole culture, its all here.<br />Written with flair and never boring, Mr. Jelly Roll is a book that you will read more than once.  Its a look at a legend and a glimpse into a world we can only know of through books and music.  Get this if you want a good read and a look at Mr. Morton's life.  A true classic.	2003-01-11
US	50774697	R39MD27RHN53EL	0843947462	410907005	The House That Jack Built	Books	5	2	4	N	N	One of the very best in horror	\\"The House that Jack Built\\" is one of the most amazing horror novels.  Its the best of the haunted house story, giving an old concept new life.  Its the story of Craig and Effie Bellman, a wealthy couple living the good life until one fateful day when Craig is attacked.  To convalesce, the couple decide to get away and its there that he see's Valhalla for the first time.  From that point on, he will to anything to possess this house.  Even if there are others living there as well.  Instantly, Effie hates the house, but he is drawn there by a force neither of them understands.<br />Its there we are introduced to Jack Belias, a womanizing gambler that is evil beyond measure and he is still there in the house.  I won't tell anymore because it would give away the plot, but the haunted house in this novel is not the traditional ghost story.  Its a different type of haunting that is still just as frightening.  This book works on so many levels, especially its atmospheric blending of two different eras.  All of the characters are well-drawn.  The scenes are crafted in a way to give you the chills.  I can honestly say this is such an incredible book that I hated finishing it.<br />If you want to read a great book, get this.  Its frightening and well worth the read.	2002-10-21
US	50774697	RKRNIJ0DKZXRH	0843950463	280047850	Night in the Lonesome October	Books	5	1	3	N	N	It doesn't get better than this!	\\"Night in the Lonesome October\\" is the kind of book you can't stop reading once you pick it up.  Its that good.  After being dumped by his girlfriend, Ed decides to walk down to the donut shop for fresh air and along the way spies a mysterious young girl walking by herself.  After that night, he begins to be compelled to walk each night, seeking the thrills and searching for this girl.  On these jaunts, he encounters everything from a late night burgler to a psychotic man seeking out his new (sort of) girlfriend, Eileen.  From the beginning to the end, the late Mr. Laymon casts a spell the only way he can using humour and a macabre sense of the things that scare us.  Some of these scenes are funny yet horrifying and this book is good from beginning to end.  With Ed's juggling of Eileen and his desperate search for the mystery girl, there is even a small love triangle.<br />Laymon's books are always a little campy which adds to the fun.  The narrators are always horny young guys and yes, they do always check out the girls and think about sex, but it also adds to the humour.  In this book, the narrator is also the victim of a horny male after him!  The rest you will just have to read.  This is one of Laymon's best books and once again, I get so depressed when I think about Laymon passing from this world.  He was simply one of the most enjoyable horror writers of the last ten years.<br />If you like Laymon and you don't mind the campy oddities, get this.  It will make you think about the people outside your window at three in the morning.  The best!	2002-10-03
US	50774697	R2BJF3GWT79DNW	0843950412	470122805	Atmosphere	Books	5	16	17	N	N	A stellar debut	As a fan of the Leisure Books line, I always pick up the new ones each month.  So I picked this up and wasn't sure what to expect.  \\"Atmosphere\\" is one of the best new sci-fi books from the last few years and it was never boring.  When Detective Frank Ballaro steps in a stream of blood, he investigates and finds a mutiliated man.  From there, he finds another body and realizes something very horrible and strange is going on.  The only clue to the abnormal is the sight of a strange black object and the whispered word \\"atmosphere\\" from the dying man.<br />From there, its a race to find the killers and the two detectives realize that there is more than just murder.  A strange cult of techno obsessed bald men in black begins to reek havoc in New York City.  When Frank's daughter is kidnapped, the story begins.<br />This is one of the best premises for an alien invasion story I've read in a long time.  With the added mix of intrigue and the great plot, this one will keep you turning pages until the very end.  This has conspiracy theories, murder and aliens which mix to become a satisfying read.  Its exciting and extremely well-written.  A definite A+ read.<br />Take a chance on a new author and pick up \\"Atmosphere\\".  You'll never think of bald men and techno music the same!	2002-09-22
US	50774697	RGSRUJ2RG5MXC	0451206878	946670143	The Return	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Bentley scores again!	The Return is a great horror novel in the classic vein.  Yet, when it is touched with Bentley's wonderful wit and imagination, what could become mundane is transformed into something special. When Glen's mother dies, he is at a loss for what to do with his life.  So he quits his job, takes off and ends up working at a archaeological site where they are excavating Indian burial ruins.  From here, there are interlocking stories leading to the conclusion which pits a small band of immune people against a timeless evil.  There is a little romance, lots of horror and a great plot that never disappoints.<br />From Arizona to Colorado, there are walking artifacts, towns go insane and become tribal and horrifying mummies take on a life of their own.  There are burial grounds, predestination and a battle with eternal evil.  All of those things are what makes a classic horror novel work.  And this is great from beginning to end.  My only wish is that it might have lasted longer and there might have been more history on the Mogollan monster.  Still, it was A+ and pure Bentley.	2002-09-18
US	50774697	R316854CSJNZC8	084394935X	14551897	Spirit	Books	5	7	9	N	N	What good horror can be!	This is one of the better horror novels of the last few years.  Its the story of a family who unravels after the accidental death of the youngest daughter, Peggy.  Each person is guilt and grief stricken, and after the girl comes back from the dead, they fall apart.  I won't give away too much so I won't go into the plot, but this book was great.  Each character is well drawn especially the older sisters, Elizabeth and Laura.  The thought of anyone coming back to haunt is frightening but when you have such a frightening spirit as this, it will keep you looking over your shoulder.<br />The premise of the story was a little unbelievable, but in Masterton's deft hand, it takes on a life of its own.  This is a ghost that is completely different than most you read about and probably more frightening.  This reminds me of horror novels from the earlier part of the century being that it doesn't rely on shock value and sex to make the plot work.  It takes place in the forties and fifties and the era is perfectly drawn here.  There is a sense of innocence and loss as it spans before WWII and after when things began to change.  Reading this book made me almost long for the days before I was born.  This one is atmospheric as well as beautifully written.<br />If you like good horror, this book is for you.  A wonderful novel!	2002-09-14
US	50774697	R25LBZRGMSIYI9	0515134279	176741903	Straw Men	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A good suspense novel!	I just finished this book this morning and enjoyed it immensely. The Straw Men are literally the most frightening and evil people in modern suspense novels.  The idea of organized mass murderers is sadly not quite as unbelievable in the aftermath of September 11.  I won't give away much more than to say that there is one twist and turn after another, shocking revelations and the ending is left open to make a sequel.  Hopefully, there will be one.<br />So why the four stars?  Most people might disagree but the main character, Ward, was unsympathetic.  He made constant insults about almost every human being he saw which would be the last thing I would do if I was mourning the death of my parents even if they were estranged.  The social commentary is sometimes dead on, but abrasive and it detracted some of the enjoyment for me.  It came across kind of smart mouthed which nearly made me put down the book.  Towards the end, I was glad I stayed because I started to like Ward a little more.  A friend of mine hated this book because of that.<br />Other than that, its worth a read and if you are a real cynic, you will probably come away with a different opinion.  I still gave it four stars due to its intense and unstoppable action.  A great book, a little flawed but worth your time.  Almost a masterpiece.	2002-09-08
US	50774697	R39CEF1WCYIO0	0843950609	960227354	Second Chance	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Phenomenal apocalyptic novel!	This is one of the most intriguing premises in a horror novel I've read in a long time.  The concept of time travel is interesting, but might have been made ridiculous in the hands of a different author.  Mr. Williamson crafted it just right and made the unbelievable seem possible.  Its the story of a group of friends who recreate the sixties during a party and wind up going back in time to save the lives of two friends who died in a bombing.  Woody loves his college girlfriend so much he is happy to have her back in his life, with a new reality and children.  But they unknowningly brought back a friend who ends up being the catalyst for possibly destroying the human race.<br />This book has everything: time travel, bioterrorism and interesting thoughts about our environment and the way it is slowly being destroyed.  It will make you think and in light of September 11, it is relevant for the times.  The writing in this is literate and top-notch and the story so interesting you will find yourself unable to put it down.<br />All in all, a great novel that is beautifully written, thought-provoking, and good to the last page.  Excellent!	2002-08-28
US	50774697	R3SKXMP8QCZA6V	0843950404	759078711	Red	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A wonderful and disturbing novel	\\"Red\\" is the kind of book you can't put down once you start it and you will read it to the bittersweet ending.  Its the story of an elderly man with a dog named Red he loves more than life.  A simple lonely man, he has few good things in his life after losing family members tragically years before. On the day, he takes his dog fishing with him, three boys come along, rob him and shoot his dog for no reason.  After this, he tries to seek justic for the murdered dog, but two of the boys are rich and from a powerful family.  Each thing he tries is thwarted until he takes matters into his own hand.<br />This book is depressing and thought-provoking.  As a dog lover, I identified with Avery especially with his feelings at the loss of his pet.  This book is about how little the law protects animals and as well as showing the problems of class still prevalent in our society.  It is not a horror novel, but a classic novel of love and vengeance.  Its one of the best books by Ketchum I've read and its great.<br />Good from beginning to end, Red will stay with you long after the last page.  A great, great novel!	2002-08-27
US	50774697	RA1FFAIFX8HIO	0843950323	738262724	Moon on the Water	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Haunting and darkly beautiful!	This is one of the most amazing works I've ever read.  Literary and haunting, this one stays with you long after its over.  Each story is a taste of darkness, deep and black, yet humorous at times as well.  There are stories in here that are magic and must be read while listening to Lady Day or Coltrane.  One of those is \\"Moon on the Water\\", a beautiful, stirring tale of heroin shooting jazzmen and the woman who comes into their lives and changes it forever.  The ending of this story is amazing and atmospheric.  Let's just say I made a few people I know read the story and they are buying the book because I couldn't part with it.<br />\\"If you take my hand, son\\" is a horrifying look into a dying man being crossed over to the other side.  And it doesn't end the way you think it will.  \\"Buckeye Jim in Egypt\\" is another powerful story about racism, unions and a look at what might happen if someone supernatural came to earth.  I won't give anything else away, but its wonderful.  \\"Love, hate and the Junkyard Sea\\" is another favorite.  However, all these stories are great in different ways and there isn't one bad story in the bunch.  That is a rare achievement.<br />This book is one to pick up if you love literary horror that makes you think.  As poetic as a Tom Waits song, these characters are real and you will never forget them.  Beautiful!	2002-08-06
US	50774697	RW64MSPIAVFMM	0451206096	266675919	The Collection	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Horror at its very finest!	\\"The Collection\\" is one of the very finest short story collections I have read in a long time.  Bentley Little created each story with a deft hand at the frightening, giving glimpses into realities that are sometimes supernatural and sometimes common, never failing to cast a spell on the reader.  You will meet some of the most freakish characters and things ever in this book.  Its a journey through a world populated with sex crazy pillows, bizarre roommates, pulsating potatoes and a secret shrine to James Dean that you will never ever forget.  Mr. Little has a way of looking at the world and seeing the possibilities of terror in every thing he sees.<br />There isn't a bad story in the collection, but I do have some favorites: \\"The Mailman\\", \\"The Idol\\", \\"Full Moon on Death Row\\", \\"Bumblee\\" and \\"Maya's Mother\\" stand out in particular, but as I said all the stories are good in different ways.  Here there are psycho papers, conspiracy theories and secret lives of housewives.<br />If you are offended easily this might not be for you.  Nothing is sacred in these stories including children and animals.  The queen of England is even assaulted in this book!  However, Bentley has a wicked and warped sense of humour and he pulls off the stories with finesse.<br />All in all, this is for the open-minded who love great horror.  Take a ride in Bentley Little country, see the sights and forget the world.  Great!	2002-08-04
US	50774697	R3A43E3K1GXKLG	0380789035	337033298	American Gods	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An amazing read!	&quot;American Gods&quot; is one of the most intriguing fantasy novels I've read in years.  Its the story of a man named Shadow who is released from prison only to find his wife and best friend had been killed and a strange man offering him a job.  From this point, the book takes the path of a fantasy and horror novel introducing you to a wide variety of gods, old and new.  This is just the beginning and for such a large book, it never bores.<br />This book takes you through idyllic small towns, interesting characters, a walking dead woman, little out of the way tourist traps which are made very interesting through Gaiman's wonderful writing and a world in which nothing is as it seems.  I won't give away too much of the plot, but I will say that the gods were presented in very interesting, sinister and humorous ways.  After reading this, I found myself looking around at the people wishing there were gods around me.<br />All in all, this book is a magical journey into a strange and perilous world.  It took me three days to read it and it left me thinking about it long after I finished.  Its funny, its frightening, sad and phenomenal.  A great read.	2002-07-27
US	50774697	RFJ81DJO2OPH	0843949996	469585449	Shadow Dreams	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A great collection of stories!	I had never read a book by Elizabeth Massie before so I was pleasantly surprised to find this gem of stories.  There isn't a bad story in the bunch and each is frightening and shocking in their own way.  My favorites were \\"Thundersylum\\", \\"Fisherman Joe\\", \\"Dibs\\" and \\"Meat\\".  The rest of the stories are excellent as well.<br />These stories aren't traditional horror in the ghost and goblin vein, but the real stuff, everyday life and she invokes quite a bit of terror in the seemingly normal.  These stories are literature, horror and mystery wrapped up together and they are wonderful.<br />All in all, a great book from an author I will read again.  If you like compelling, good horror pick this up.  You won't be disappointed.	2002-06-28
US	50774697	R3GC9PLFG606P8	0440236703	718492514	Tell No One	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The perfect weekend read.	This book is one you will read in a day or so considering its so addictive.  David Beck has been attempting to put his life back together since the murder of his wife eight years before, a murder that took place on a trip to the lake for the couple's anniversary.  Years later, Dr. Beck begins to receive emails from a person who knows things only his wife could.  Is she dead or is she alive?  That's as much as I can tell you.<br />\\"Tell No One\\" is a great mystery and it has many layers.  Frightening bad guys, kind of good bad guys such as Tyrese and likeable characters such as Dr. Beck and Shauna.  Some of it is in first person and some in third person and its done in a way that isn't at all distracting.  Once you open this up, you won't be able to figure out what comes next.  I read this in a day and a half and couldn't put it down.  If you want good suspense with good writing, pick up this one.	2002-06-14
US	50774697	R1M9KVOOV0Q227	0380792648	724743548	Subterranean	Books	5	10	14	N	N	An incredible book full of surprises.	I've read a few of James Rollin's books and they are always a pleasure to read and everyone in my family passes them around and enjoys them as much as I did.  Its hard to imagine this being a first novel, because its written so well and the world he creates is very intriguing.  I'm always one for the suspenseful, archaeological type books and this is the perfect one.  When a team of researchers disappear in a cavern system under Antarctica, there are little clues to what had happened to them. The military picks a select few of experts in various fields to go down there and search for them.  But the team has no idea of the dangers until their arrival and even then they are thrust into a journey that will take them beyond anything they imagined.<br />Underneath the earth are many mysteries I won't give away, but the whole premise is intriguing and well-written.  All of the characters are very real to me and this book is just about as perfect as a suspense novel can be.  There are good guys, bad guys, riches and something else I won't give away.<br />This is a great read and one that almost anyone can enjoy.  Great!	2002-06-14
US	50774697	R3K4CVJ2HA3X6N	0843947136	569182168	Nailed by the Heart	Books	5	5	6	N	N	This is one frightening horror novel!	So far, I've read three of Simon Clark's other books and enjoyed them immensely.  &quot;Nailed by the Heart&quot; is the most recent of his books and one of the most frightening.  Its the story of a family who moves to a small coastal town to live in an old sea-fort they planned to remodel into a hotel.  The Stainforth's, however, have no clue that their new home is shared with an ancient god demanding sacrifice.  And they have no idea that there is something else in the water ready to try to seize the old god's power.<br />This one is terrifying and atmospheric.  I always enjoy books by the sea and this has all the eerie effects of such a setting.<br />There are animated corpses and the frightening Saf Dar that makes this one very suspenseful.  Good characters, interesting story and all the chills makes this a superb book.  So far, I've read all of his books that have been released in the states and I await his next one.<br />A great horror novel as well as suspense novel.  A+	2002-06-08
US	50774697	R14QT7FL7225YM	078670442X	8097352	The Drive-In: A Double Feature Omnibus	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A true original!	I recently read this and found it to be one of the most engrossing novels ever.  Its not just interesting, its hilarious and done in a style that is purely unique.  This is the book version of one of those great campy scary movies from the late seventies.  Its about a group of teenage boys who spend every Friday night at the Orbit, a gigantic drive-in in Texas.  That last night, they become trapped after a smiling comet comes down and they become trapped in the drive-in.  From this point on, everyone has to survive in face of starvation and the reign of the Popcorn King.  And that is just the first book.<br />I can't tell you anything about the second book because it would ruin the surprise, but I will say that its funny and engaging too.  Especially Toothy and Popalong Cassidy.  Both of these are hysterically funny and they brim with a great sense of humour.  This one is a true original and one of best.  If you want a funny, campy and interesting read, get the Drive-in.  You won't be disappointed.	2002-06-07
US	50774697	RBGWCBQJ2D845	0451205812	237229878	The Ferryman	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Don't pass up "The Ferryman".  Superb horror!	I have read Mr. Golden's other books and enjoyed them immensely, but this one is probably just about the best horror novel I've read so far.  The story of Janine having a near death experience and encountering Charon the Ferryman on the other side is chilling and different than a lot of books.  Once she sees him, she turns away and returns to her body.  But Charon isn't done with her by a long shot.<br />David becomes an unwitting pawn when he visits Janine and they decide to rekindle their romance even though he had been deeply hurt by her previously when she dropped him for another man who dumped her once she was pregnant.  Its not enough that she has to deal with losing her baby, but forces from beyond the grave won't let her go.<br />This is a great ghost story, atmospheric and intelligent and it is one of those books you can't put down once you start.  Believe me, I tried and it took me from Friday night till just now to finish it and it kept me up long into the night.  The characters are very real and the plot is excellent.  There truly isn't a slow part of this book, its action from beginning to end.<br />The Ferryman is a frightening horror novel and a great one at that.  Its one that you should pick up if you want a good, well-written ghost story.  A+.	2002-06-03
US	50774697	RY7LBCOBLSJCT	0843949899	978197469	Slain in the Spirit	Books	4	1	1	N	N	This is &quot;real&quot; horror	I had never read a book by Melanie Tem so I wasn't sure what to expect.  What I got was a great read that was not in the traditional horror genre, but used religious fanaticism as a means to frighten.  And this one is terrifying.  What makes this book so scary is that there are people just like that in the world and this could actually happen.<br />Its the story of a blind woman who happens to be a lesbian, a woman who unwittingly became an obsession to a man she knew in school many years before.  He believes her blindness is a sign from God that she hasn't embraced Him and he kidnaps her and keeps her until she can see.  Of course, she's blind and nothing can get her nearly non-existent sight back.  In fact, he has denied her all the things she needs to keep it from getting worse.<br />Wow, this one was non-stop and it never failed to scare me.  It was a very suspenseful with many foiled attempts to escape.  Russell is a character from our worst nightmares and his craziness could actually be ripped from the headlines.  The only reason I gave it four stars instead of five was the ending.  Though I thought this book fantastic, the ending left so much to be desired.  It appeared to be almost rushed and I was hoping for more at the end.<br />Still, this is very good stuff and even with the ending, its worth buying and reading.  It will creep you out very badly.  Great!	2002-06-01
US	50774697	R3NHI6VXQOQS2C	0843949880	48429437	City Infernal	Books	5	7	8	N	N	What a great horror novel!	I was one of those who read the negative reviews and bought the book with trepidation, but once I opened it up, I couldn't stop reading it until it was finished.  Let's just say that I devoured this book during one very long night and it stayed with me long after.  Leisure Books brings out tons of really great books, but occasionally there's one that stands out amongst all of them.  City Infernal is that book.<br />As a semi-aging goth, I identified with the main character Cassie who is very confused and lost after contributing to an event that sent her twin sister over the edge and caused her to commit suicide.  Cassie and her father move to a small rural southern town and from there the story gets going.  Its at this house that she meets up with a ragtag group of teenagers who guide her into hell itself to find her sister.  From this point, I won't give anything else away just to say that hell is a very colorful and incredibly imagined city.  Mr. Lee took a interesting concept and turned it into a strange and frightening city of the dead.  There are all manner of demons here and hellish traps not to mention an odd plot twist with warring demons and a plot to overthrow Lucifer's grip on the city.<br />This book is exceptional and there are funny parts too.  Cassie's trip to the local redneck store was really funny, not to mention her friendship with a one-armed redneck.<br />All in all, a great book and one I highly recommend.	2002-06-01
US	50774697	R3G0L1EIG7YU9X	0843949783	372932416	Island	Books	5	132	141	N	N	Hilarious and suspenseful	Obviously, this one is not for everyone.  For a big book, I read this in almost two days.  Its the story of a boating trip gone awry when a group of people are having a picnic on a supposedly deserted island.  When the boat blows up, they are all stranded there.  This one is narrated by a horny teenage boy named Rupert, who is trying to survive, save his women and sneak peeks at them.  I found this one to be suspenseful, spooky and funny at the same time.  I have known guys like Rupert so I didn't find his sex-obsessed mind to be all that unbelievable.<br />If you want to read Laymon novels, you must be warned that the narrator is always horny, the women always end up naked and there is campy fun elements that add to the book.  In Island, everyone ends up in the nude including the guys, the plot is strange and its one heck of a ride.  A lot of people didn't like this, but I did.  If you are into the more literary horror, you won't enjoy this, but if you like horror that is funny and you don't offend easily you'll love it.<br />Richard Laymon was one of the funnest writers in horror.  Island reminds me of one of those late night Cinemax films, but at the same time, it draws you in.<br />Good, campy fun, but frightening and spooky at the same time.	2002-04-11
US	50774697	R3OR5FUPBPKTMU	0786014776	790921730	Bad Things	Books	5	18	19	N	N	A spooky horror novel full of atmosphere	&quot;Bad Things&quot; is a great novel that I highly recommend to anyone who enjoys horror and suspense.  Its the story of Ricky Piper, a child afflicted with an ability to see greenjacks which are fairy type creatures that attach themselves to the Piper family.  The novel starts at Halloween, when Ricky and his twin brother, Robin, are thrust into a terrifying experience with Big Jack, a Pan-like being made from twigs and leaves, that comes to take the soul of a Piper on Halloween.  But something happens that night that haunts Ricky the rest of his life.  And even as a successful adult, he is still unable to be sure what happened, and if he really saw the things he thought he did as a kid.  When odd things begin to happen at the old house, he is left wondering if the greenjacks, in fact, do exist or is there more sinister going on at the house?<br />This is an extremely well-written horror novel I devoured in a day and a half.  Tamara Thorne has a way with words, and she is good at creating people you care about.  She also is very funny and has a knack for putting in oddball characters like Dakota and Aunt Jade.<br />Bad Things is great horror at its finest.  A great novel.	2002-04-05
US	50774697	R1TX5HKISGB2P	0843948256	677650953	Blood Crazy	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A suspenseful, smart horror novel	This is one of those books it takes a day or two to read because you can't put it down.  Its narrated by Nick Aten, a seventeen year old who hangs out in clubs and generally gets in trouble most of the time.  He is thrust into a nightmare when parents begin to kill their children out of the blue and he comes home to find his brother dead.  From that point on, the story begins and he is soon on the run for his life, picking up kids along the way who get caught in his town.  But as our protoganist soon finds out, its not just parents who want to kill their children; all adults are out to kill anyone under the age of nineteen and this is a world-wide phenonmenon.<br />Blood Crazy is very different than anything I've ever read.  From the chase by the \\"Creosotes\\" (afflicted adults) to the formation of colonies of kids fighting them, this one never bores.  Its different from the traditional horror novel because its not a supernatural thriller, but its based on nature. Simon Clark is very unique in that he is able to write nature-based horror that doesn't rely on ghosts or traditional monsters.  This makes him kind of unique in the field.  Usually that sort of thing bores me, but not the way he writes it.<br />If you want a totally different type of horror novel, this one is for you.  Its very smart, the characters are three-dimensional, and its well-written.  A great book from one of my new favorite authors.	2002-04-05
US	50774697	R2C4C9T4JAQEDM	0380818809	87950657	Deep Fathom	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A great action novel full of twists and turns	I must confess to hating this book as I started it.  I didn't like the introduction of characters that were killed immediately. From that point on, the book dragged a bit, but then suddenly, it started to hook me in and from that point on, I found it suspenseful and enthralling.  Since I ended up liking it as much as it did, I still gave it five stars regardless of the slow start.<br />The concept of a lost continent is one I found rather interesting. And the crystal pillar under the sea with the tie-ins to the Bermuda and Devil's triangles on opposite sides of the ocean was intriguing.  I love and fear the ocean and find this story to be a plus considering most of it takes place on the sea and under water.  All of the characters were well-written and the heroes likeable.  This is a great action and suspense novel that keeps you reading until the end.  In this one you get the sea, espionage, archaeology, not to mention physics and time travel.  I liked the ending considering it redeems the few things I didn't like in the beginning.<br />All in all, a great suspense novel that holds your interest.  It would make a great film.	2002-03-26
US	50774697	R1ETW56TXYBKR4	051513175X	59736501	The Descent	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One of the best and most intriguing suspense novels	Incredible is the term I use for this action novel that far surpasses expectations.  The concept of a hollow earth has been discussed on late night radio programs, but this story of the mutated Hadals living in caves deep underground is intriguing and this story never drags and is never boring.  The characters are well drawn, three dimensional and they are people you care for as the story progresses.  I was amazed at how this book kept the suspense which is very difficult with a book so long but this one is never tedious and keeps you up long into the night reading it.<br />The evil Hadals, the underground cities and this concept of Satan not to mention the underground captives and the journey to the very bowels of the earth is a great tale.  You get everything in this one:  evil beings, suspense, a journey, and not to mention, new discoveries all along the way.  Jeff Long is a great writer who I hope to see write more and more books.  This one firmly establishes him as one of the best of his genre.<br />This is a book that doesn't ever disappoint and its one to check out.  It will draw you in and frighten you and now I always wonder what could lurk underneath the ground.  Brilliant.  A \\"Journey to the Center of the Earth\\" for our times.	2002-03-26
US	50774697	R3A5ZDSGCEC2RC	084394966X	914910401	This Symbiotic Fascination	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A frightening, gore-fest!	I agree with the other reviewer who said not to eat while reading this.  Don't.  There are images in this book that can literally make you sick to your stomach.  Still, this is a unique and original spin on the vampire myth.  Its a brutal, shocking and well-written book that will keep you on the edge of your seat.  There is even some insightful social commentary as well not to mention, the prose is poetic at times and invokes images in a way few authors can't.  I can't wait to read the next book she will write because she is a great horror writer.<br />I like a book written by a female author that can pack some punch and she puts out all the stops.  The female characters are very strong, but the males are cretins in this book and I think there should have been one that wasn't.  Still, the character of Tawne, the overweight thirty-something virgin was very indepth and I had sympathy for her.  Arcan had no redeeming qualities whatsoever and their relationship is a sick and twisted love story that goes awry.  I won't give too much of the plot away, but I'll say that its twisted and suspenseful and a very quick read.  You won't be able to put this down once you start.<br />A brilliantly written and gutsy endeavor. If you are grossed out by violence, this will not be for you.  There are scenes in this book that I had to skip because they were too much.  Nothing is sacred in &quot;This Symbiotic Fascination&quot; and there is a little something offensive in this for everyone.  Still that is what makes this such a great book.  I would definitely recommend to anyone who isn't deterred by blood, guts and gore.  A great read.	2002-03-16
US	50774697	R2H24T5J5V65K9	0452280346	777854716	Broke Heart Blues	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A moving and epic novel about high school	I read quite a few negative reviews about this book before buying, but I always enjoy JCO's books so I took a chance.  And I wasn't disappointed.  Broke Heart Blues is a sweeping, nostalgic and bittersweet look back at high school through the minds of an elite class of rich kids in a suburb of Buffalo.  Willowsville is a town populated by the wealthy and finds itself turned upside down when John Reddy Heart and his glamorous mother, grandfather and younger siblings arrive.  Since the moment he drives in town sitting on three Las Vegas phone books at 11 years old, this town will never be the same.  There are legends, rumours, half-truths abounding about this kid until he is arrested for the murder of a well-known man in his mother's bedroom and then the John Reddy Heart mania truly begins.  Each of them finds a little something different in John Reddy and this is an obsession that lasted throughout their adulthood as well.<br />The first part of the book deals with the rumours and people's perceptions of the boy through various eyes.  Its a lengthy and detailed narration using different voices that all worshipped him.  The second part is about the real John Reddy Heart, a nice, quiet kid who had trouble expressing himself which gave rise to his mystery.  It tells of his difficult life and shows just how wrong people can be about someone else.  The real boy was far different than the kid idolized in town.  He was really a shy kid trying to make sense of his out of control life and attempting to keep his family together.  It also goes into his adulthood and the kind of man he became.  The third deals with the thirtieth reunion and this is a bittersweet, funny yet very sad account of rich suburbanites who never left high school.  It almost makes you sad for the popular crowd because they never left that mindset behind in this book.<br />The end of this is tragic.  These middle-aged kids at heart still trying to make sense of life throughout various disasters from heart attacks, cancer, divorce and children.  At the end, you realize that no matter how much money you have or how old you are, there is a part of you that will forever remain in high school.  This was one of the best parts of the book and sad too.<br />This one is very detailed and not for everyone but I loved it.  Its a great read and one that stays with you long after its finished.  One of my favorite JCO books.t attacks, cancer, divorce and children.  At the end, you realize that no matter how much money you have or how old you are, there is a part of you that will forever remain in high school.  This was one of the best parts of the book and sad too. <br />This one is very detailed and not for everyone but I loved it.  Its a great read and one that stays with you long after its finished.  One of my favorite JCO books.	2002-03-14
US	50774697	R2NP7QWYBQ1JOG	0765341972	21305186	The Mothman Prophecies	Books	5	11	13	N	N	A wild and interesting read!	I just finished the Mothman and found it to be a very interesting account of a rash of strange sightings in the late 1960's, centered around a town called Point Pleasant. The tales of strange men in black unable to act and look fully human arriving on people's doorsteps is chilling to say the least. There are plenty of strange sightings and weirdness documented in this novel. I can't say I believe in UFO's or Mothmen but he makes an interesting case study of what happened back then, telling of the contactees from all walks of life who supposedly saw UFO's and the hi-jinks of otherworldly visitors after they reported it.<br />Unfortunately, there is very little about the Mothman and at times, I felt frustrated since we didn't get quite as much of he/it as I would have liked. Still its a very interesting read, it kept me glued so I gave it five stars anyway. I still found it to be one of the more interesting of UFO literature. I liked the way he wrote this book in that you can detect a tone of skepticism as well as awe of the events. No one is sure what these things are but I liked what he wrote in the beginning on their possible origins which I won't give away. He writes with a lot of humour and its very well-written. I especially loved hearing about Woody's trip to Lanulos, an interplanetary nudist colony of sorts.<br />All I can say is that I loved this book. Keel writes with a good eye and a sense of humour. Interesting events. Spooky and fun all at the same time.	2002-03-04
US	50774697	R2GT32JDSEHIUK	074322535X	780904511	Gap Creek: The Story of a Marriage (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Simple and heartfelt	I got this book for Christmas and kept putting off reading it.  I don't usually read this kind of book so I wasn't sure if I would like it or not.  Surprisingly, I really enjoyed it from beginning to end, reading it in a day and a half.  It starts a little slow but its very compelling and simple and the story flows from page one to the hopeful end.  This is a difficult book at times due to the hardships she faced and its depressing to see how her life unfolded after marriage.<br />I thought the author did a wonderful job with Julie's voice, it resonated very real to me.  This is a woman from a very different time than those of us face now.  Her hardwork is very real and descriptive in a way that makes you see how women had to be strong to survive such a turbulent life.  Hank was often a very unlikeable character cruel to her at times yet eventually he ended up coming through for her.  So these characters were real people to me who did change and grow with time and the pain they suffered gave them strength at the end.  This marriage is a real marriage between two kids trying to face starvation, joblessness and being betrayed by others.<br />If you like a simple but deep read, this is the one.  Its a great story and a very honest one and shows you how how different life was a hundred years ago.  A wonderful read.	2002-02-28
US	50774697	RGJP6LNSWBNJU	0316284955	613460974	White Oleander (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A great book though I have mixed emotions	Yes, this is a wonderfully, poetic book written by a woman whose next book I will pick up gladly.  It got me through a rather bad day and a half in which I became so immersed in the story I literally got lost in it and forgot my problems.  Ingrid is the most compelling character being that she had been a woman who lived life on her terms, a sort of feminist poet, who loses her mind after falling in love with a man and later being dumped by him...<br />This is where the story begins and my mixed feelings begin.  I understand Astrid's need to be loved but not the way she seduces her caretaker's boyfriends.  That's where she lost me.  And from that point on, I didn't sympathize with her at all.  Though I still loved reading it.  So its a strange feeling.  I understand loneliness and loss but not a conniving need to sleep with older men who have girlfriends.  That lost me.<br />Two things annoyed me that were repeated throughout the bookl<br />\\"Its a man's world\\" - ok yes but that doesn't mean giving up and doing whatever a guy wants you to.  That feels like a cop-out.<br />\\"Laying with the father\\" - no matter how bad yourlife is there is no excuse for seducing another woman's boyfriend.  I don't care if you've got a father or not.<br />These messages irked me yet here I am giving it five stars!  Why? Because this book made me laugh, cry, toss it down in anger and in the end, it compelled me to keep reading.  Its frustrating, it annoyed me but in the end, this book is what being human is about.  Making mistakes is what we all do.  White Oleander is the book that gets under your skin, angers you and makes you realize that it made you actually feel something.<br />So in the end, its a truly amazing book.  I'd recommend it to anyone and give it more stars if I could.	2002-02-27
US	50774697	R1CQVPEIYV69G	0671685635	207023183	Ghost Story	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A timeless horror novel	This is the kind of book one can pick up during any decade and the story would still feel timeless.  Its a very literary horror novel, different than the usual genre's reliance on the squeamish, opting for a more psychological approach to frighten the reader.<br />Its the story of four elderly men who meet each week to tell stories and are all hiding a deep dark secret.  The Chowder Society lost a member the year before and feel that their secret is the cause of their problems.  After some frightening events and dreams, they enlist the help of the dead man's relative to come to Milburn considering he had written books about the occult.  Once Milburn is locked down by months of relentless snow, the town seems to be besieged with ghosts picking off the Chowder Society one by one.  From there, its a non-stop fight for survival till the end.<br />Ghost Story is not a ghost story in the classic vein.  Its a supernatural story with a different kind of being than the usual ghost or ghoul.  This makes the story more original and at the same time even more frightening.  Its a brilliant novel that is far more literary and stylish than most horror novels.<br />This is a very involved book so its not one for those who like a quick, simple read.  This one gets under your skin and is truly one of the most terrifying horror novel of all time.  A great work of fiction and a masterpiece in its own right.  Ghost Story will scare you, intrigue and keep you hooked till the end.	2002-02-25
US	50774697	R103QJL31U04Z2	0843948507	749306061	The Traveling Vampire Show	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Incredible!  One of Laymon's best!	If anyone could write great horror then it was the late Richard Laymon.  It makes me sad to know that I discovered this writer after he had passed away considering just how much I enjoy his books.  The Traveling Vampire Show did not disappoint in any way. I will warn a vampire fan that this is not at all typical of the genre.  This is a coming of age novel as well as a horror novel and sometimes it focuses more on the character's than horror yet it also steadily builds with a sense of dread as the day wears on and certain events occur.  Its a very detailed book and there is some romance between Dwight and Slim that helps the plot.  I would say the characters are well developed and they are ones you care about.<br />There are a lot of elements to this book that make it good horror.  The stories about Jank's Field, the mysterious ghostly man and the frightening, perverted Cadillac twins add to the book though I would liked to have learned more about the latter but still its a great book and the Vampire Show is quite frightening once it begins.  At the end, it becomes a horrific fight to the finish as they do battle with the vampire and its evil minions.  There are also campy elements that are hilarious too like the women losing their clothes and fighting in the nude!<br />All in all, a great book that is fun and typical Laymon in that there is laughs, chills and his trademark freakishness that gives it his special touch.  Just an all around fantastic read by one of the masters of horror!	2002-02-14
US	50774697	R2P06ZCNN7NVLM	0451202910	876467674	Evil Whispers	Books	5	7	8	N	N	This one is hard to put down!	This book is what good horror is all about.  Its the story of a family who takes a vacation down in Florida.  What should have been a relaxing time for the Pattersons soon turns to a nightmare as the spirit of an evil voodoo sorcerer begins to call out to their young daughter.  Sometimes less prose is more as is the case with this novel.  It doesn't rely on unnecessary descriptions to make it a great novel rather its the author's ability to keep you turning pages until the very end.<br />I think he captures the swamps and the frightening spirit extremely well and does it in a way that makes you look over your shoulder as you read this late at night. This one has all the elements of a great horror novel with some added aspects of Indian lore that gives this writer his own special touch.<br />If you like a gripping read, get this one.  I found myself reading the entire thing in one day which is very rare for me.  Owl Goingback has all the makings to become one of the most popular names in horror.  I hope he comes out with another book very soon.  A great novel!	2002-02-12
US	50774697	R3I968E6Q01WAS	084394921X	678981612	A Lower Deep	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A great horror novel. I loved it!	This is one of those rare books you will find that has the ability to completely immerse you in the world the writer has created.  Its the story of a necromancer and his familiar Self who are trying to prevent the Apocalypse.  It takes you through the wild and frightening world of the occult in a way few novels have been able to accomplish.  Its frightening but fun as well.  A rare writer can balance humour with horror but this writer does it excellently.  Images in this book stay with you long after as you begin to become involved in the necromancers's battle against the evil coven leader, Jebediah.  This book covers everything from Christianity to satanism and there are all manner of evil beings from demons to zombies dressed like jester's to disembodied souls. The last line in this book is hilarious yet very sad too.<br />You will travel from Montana all the way to the Middle East in this powder keg of a horror novel.  Its got plenty of gore, plenty of laughs and images so powerful you will not forget it. Mr. Piccirilli can write unique horror that is rather poetic and interesting on each and every page.<br />If you like good horror that will always entertain, this is the book for you.  I sure hope there will be more books written about these characters.  A fantastic read!	2002-02-12
US	50774697	R3GGM85VSLPTG3	0843949627	993682309	Darker	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Another excellent book by Simon Clark	I'm so glad to have discovered this author.  \\"Darkness Demands\\" was a phenomenal book as is \\"Darker\\".  It weaves so many different elements of horror and fantasy together to create this wonderful story.  Mr. Clark has the rare gift of being able to hook you from the first page until the very last.  This one never gets boring nor slow.  You literally sit on the edge of your seat until the last page.<br />The book starts off with a teenaged girl named Rosemary meeting up with a mysterious stranger named Michael after running away from home.  This stranger seems so nice she allows herself to be sucked into his evil plans which is to try to control a brutal power he has unleashed.<br />After leaving Rosemary behind to face this force, he gets in a wreck near the home of the Young family and from there, Richard has to try to save his wife and daughter with the help of the battered Rosemary Snow. I won't tell anymore so as not to spoil the plot but this is one wild ride of a book. The characters are all very believable and are people you care about.  The plot has all the elements of a great suspense novel as well as horror.  You never know from page to page just how this one will turn out.<br />All in all, this is one of the best horror novels I've read recently.  I can't wait to read what Simon Clark will write next. If you like being on the edge of your seat and enjoyed his other books, don't pass this one up.	2002-02-11
US	50774697	R238X6T4DSU5NA	0671729462	998057805	My Sweet Audrina (The Audrina Series)	Books	5	59	63	N	N	I've always loved this amazing novel!	Its hard to review this book because I don't want to give away any of its twisted plot that never ceases to amaze me each time I read this.  My mother bought this when I was about ten years old and I snuck it to my room to read late at night.  Now its not suitable reading for a kid but I found this to be amazingly frightening in a way that a family could be this strange  Its a Gothic novel.  Twisted characters... and its quite bizarre.  Its also a heart-felt romance as well.<br />When you start reading this, you must understand that nothing is what it seems.  This is what made the VC Andrews books before she died so incredibly amazing and this is one of her very best.  I read this once about every five years and I still enjoy it every bit as much as that first time as a kid.  Simply put, amazing!	2002-02-05
US	50774697	R25IRDHBJUL7KG	0452282829	872593606	We Were the Mulvaneys (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A difficult but amazing novel!	I just finished \\"We Were the Mulvaneys\\" tonight and I have to say it was a truly amazing piece of work.  Joyce Carol Oates weaves so many different aspects into the story of the perfect family that falls to ruin after their daughter is raped at a party.  This is a very, very detailed book.  You learn about each and every family member in a very distinctive way.  I think this is necessary to make you understand how such a family could be changed forever.  It gives you the image of High Gate farm and the Mulvaney's to make you understand how and why they acted the way they did.<br />Mr. Mulvaney behaved atrociously in his complete dissociation from his daughter.  Marianne had been the perfect daughter - a cheerleader, a Christian and a good girl who makes the mistake of drinking too much one night.  There is a part in the book where it describes how Corinne and Mike (the parents) met.  This to me was a clue to how he felt about his daughter after the rape.  It was where he had said women were supposed to be morally superior to men.  I think Mike not only couldn't deal with his daughter's pain and his inability to protect her but at the same time, he looked down on her too.<br />The rest of the characters are detailed well except for Mike Jr who I thought was kind of put in the background and not developed as well.  I thought this book to be believable.  Even the bad reactions didn't surprise as Marianne Mulvaney seemed to be prized on her good qualities but not seen fully by her family as anything other than a perfect daughter and sister.  It also shows how one incident can change our lives forever.<br />It has a happy ending in a way.  However, this book really broke my heart when I read it.  I felt so much sadness for Marianne that it depressed me as well as lifted me up at the end.  Even though it ends good, it doesn't detract from the years lost in separation.  However, it shows that life does go on.<br />A brilliant novel and a difficult read.  It brings out all the emotions.  Beautiful!all the emotions.  Beautiful!	2002-02-04
US	50774697	RJ8F5MV7SGC1U	1895565669	195719049	Love You Forever	Books	3	15	20	N	N	Mixed feelings on this book	This is one of those books I have mixed feelings on so I can only give it 3 stars.  There is nothing wrong with a woman loving her child and holding her child and singing to him or her.  However, there is a creepiness to this book that just can't be denied.  On the one hand, it can be construed as a children's book and most kids wouldn't get the creepiness or weird feeling from it.  Adults, however, don't feel comfortable with it.  And as the librarian in another review said, there's almost a Norman Bates feel to it.  You can almost hear \\"oh God mother, what have you done!\\" ala Psycho.<br />On the other hand, it has a very touching ending that brought tears to my eyes.  I think there is a good message to it and I don't think there is anything wrong with it for the most part.  Its how adults perceive it.  Creepy and co-dependent is one way or beautiful and heartfelt another.  There is no middle ground with \\"Love You Forever\\".  One thing though a few people brought up I found interesting is how we would perceive it if it was a father and daughter.  I think people would all see it as creepy.  So in a way, its easy to see where the negative reviews are coming from.<br />So it might be something you don't buy for a friend's baby shower or someone you don't know.	2002-02-04
US	50774697	R25KQJQ5GN75ZP	0843949392	477259108	The Last Vampire	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A bizarre and wild ride through a vampire's life	The Last Vampire chronicles the life of Elmo Land, the last vampire living at the actual end of times.  His story begins in the twenties when he becomes the victim of a neighborhood woman who happens to be a vampire.  His story is a rather unique one.  He tells his angst-ridden tale that somehow seems much fresher than most of the horror novels out there.  He is neither fancy nor debonair but a very real character dealing with an insatiable hunger.  Elmo tells the story of cowboy vampires and his journey as an undead killer.  Its a great tale that never disappoints.  Its funny, its frightening and most of all, its an odd story full of interesting characters.  Great	2002-01-26
US	50774697	R1L5O72M98UIN5	0843948981	399417236	Darkness Demands	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A superb horror novel	Darkness Demands is the kind of horror novel that comes along once in a rare while because its a rather new concept and a very horrifying story.  I love horror but most books don't really scare me.  This one did.  The whole idea of living next to a gigantic cemetery is creepy but mysterious notes popping up on your doorstep telling you to bring candy or beer to the cemetery is odd yet frightening in some weird way.  This was good storytelling at its finest.  The characters are real and you actually feel involved while reading this.  You care about them.<br />Darkness Demands is not a simple book in the end.  It doesn't end the way you want it to and there is no easy answers or solutions but its one heck of a ride.	2002-01-24
US	50774697	R3D8476UJQP52J	074343627X	241269653	Dreamcatcher	Books	5	0	0	N	N	One of the best books I've read in a long time!	I read this entire book during a recent bout with the flu.  I've always enjoyed Stephen King's books though there have been a few I haven't liked as much in the past but all of his books are entertaining.  This book is one of those I couldn't put down and couldn't stop reading until the last page.  Its a very involving story about four friends who go on a hunting trip only to find more than they bargained for when a stranger stumbled into camp. Its a sci fi book that has a lot of heart and feeling.  Its sad, its funny and it never disappointed me.<br />This is a book that a reader of simple stories might find too involving. It jumps around from character to character and it also jumps back in time.  The characters are all very well-drawn and real.  The four friends are people you really care about when you read this and you feel sad when a character is killed.  I don't want to spoil the plot too much so I will just say that I found King's aliens to be a very good interpretation. A little different than the usual fare.<br />The interweaving of the past and the present was very well done. The last hundred pages is very suspenseful, leading you to the conclusion and a shocking revelation.  All in all, it was a brilliant piece of work.  I think it was one of his best.	2002-01-24
US	50774697	R1VBIXXMA6LHVG	0671039350	837340236	Sunflower	Books	1	2	5	N	N	The best sedative I ever read!	What can I say?  I hate to write a bad review for any book considering I'm an aspiring writer and I know how I would feel if I got a negative review.  That said, I can't give this more than one star.  And I will tell you why.  Its one of the slowest books I've ever read. The characters are very old and out of style.  This is definitely one for the elderly and not for anyone under the age of 60.  From the crew-cutted cop with no sex appeal to his favorite exclamation &quot;Jesus Jenny&quot;, I couldn't find myself into the male love interest at all.  Its not a badly written book as far as grammar but the pages are full of boredom.<br />Definitely one to donate to the retirement home!  Don't let the 5 star reviews fool you.  If you are youngish and like action and mystery, don't get &quot;Sunflower&quot;.	2001-11-18
US	50774697	R28M53PIIC5TO9	0843949163	214085109	In the Dark	Books	5	5	6	N	N	I was hooked from the first page to the last!	I just finished this book tonight so I had to come on here and write my review.  This is undoubtedly a roller coaster of a book as another reviewer put it.  Each page has something interesting, suspenseful or bizarre on it.  Jane begins to receive notes from MOG, a sick and demented rich weirdo who thrives on games.  She begins to do increasingly bizarre things in order to get the money.  Jane is a local librarian with a boring life who thrives on this attention and greed.  She's just as abnormal in a way as Mog.<br />Throughout this book, I was never disappointed by the events that began to unfold.  There is a definite Twin Peaks aspect to this book.  In some ways, it was reminiscent of the film &quot;Blue Velvet&quot;, one of my personal favorites so I enjoyed it greatly.  If you are put off by bizarreness, this wouldn't probably be for you.  But for those who like suspense, strangeness and campiness, you will enjoy it greatly.<br />One thing I liked about this book is the freaky and frightening characters, Jane meets along the way.  There are also scenes that are extremely disturbing and frightening and sure to make you lock the doors.  It builds from an innocent letter to bloody mayhem. There is even a question you ask yourself at the end - what was Mog? Human or supernatural?  I think he might have been the latter.<br />Either way, I think we lost a great writer when Richard Laymon passed away.  He will be missed.	2001-11-12
US	50774697	R3UTT9MMJE6EMN	0451202767	434717564	Straight on 'Til Morning (Signet Horror)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Frightening flight of fantasy!	I loved this book so much.  The characters reminded me quite a bit of most of my friends as a teenager.  Christopher Golden really captures those long ago summers hanging out with your friends, getting in fights with the older kids and the infatuation of your first real love.  It goes from this to an odyssey into another land halfway through the book.  The atmosphere is perfect especially when they follow the directions overheard when one of the characters was kidnapped.  As they journey into this strange yet dangerous world, you find yourself in a frightening sort of fairy land that is at war.<br />Its a new spin on the Peter Pan tale but with a dark side.  The fierce battles that take place and the way the book unfolds is fascinating.  I found myself unable to put it down.  To me, it never disappointed.  It kept me hooked to the very end and I was sad when it was over.<br />To those fascinated by fairy stories and dark fantasy, this is the book for you.  Its pure magic from beginning to end.  Absolutely wonderful!	2001-11-12
US	50774697	R1MKXCHN9L7PI3	0812505204	21613500	The Black Carousel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Absolutely Wonderful!	I just recently read this book and loved it.  My only complaint is that there weren't more stories to make the book last longer.  Each short story was wonderfully written and completely eerie.  It was very reminiscent of Ray Bradbury whose books I have read over and over.  I have to say that Charles Grant is now up there with some of my favorite horror writers of all time.<br />One story that particularly spooked me was the one about the little girl who moves to Oxrun Station.  The part where she sees the boy under the tree watching the house is so spooky that I actually had to peer out the window during a thunderstorm just to make sure there was no one out there.  Since I've read so many horror stories all my life, I find it great when I can find a story spooky enough to scare me out of my wits.  This whole book is kind of like that.  I think its great.	2001-07-17
US	50774697	R2A4KMPIYF2BJI	0843948760	13657707	The Lost	Books	5	6	6	N	N	I was hooked from the first page!	The Lost isn't really a horror novel which seems to upset a few people I've talked to that's read the book.  Having said that, I found it so interesting and absorbing I couldn't stop reading until the last page.  Its one of those stories that immerses you on so many levels.  You find yourself becoming so into the characters that it leaves you sad that it's over at the end.  Ray Pye is one of those characters you despise yet pity also.  I had read that the character was loosely based on The Pied Piper of Tuscon.  This book takes you beyond that into a fictional world of obsession and murder.  Its so well-written that it just flows along perfectly as you turn the pages.  I found it hard to put down the night I started it and finished it the next morning.<br />If you have an open mind, you can enjoy this book.  I found it frightening that there are people exactly like Ray out there in the world right now.  There is also some humour involved as well. Though Ray kills many people in this book, he does get his in the end.  Literally.  You will have to read it to understand exactly what I mean.<br />I also found there was also some social commentary to the book namely the way Jack Ketchum tied in many events that had seemed to break down the moral fabric of our society.  Some say he didn't do that well but I disagree.  I think Mr. Ketchum showed this perfectly.  All in all, its a great book full of mayhem!	2001-07-17
US	50774697	R1PZ3HZY0LVAIX	084394739X	916985744	The Dawning	Books	5	8	9	N	N	An interesting novel that I couldn't put down!	The Dawning is not the typical horror novel at all.  In fact, its a character study of sorts with spookiness thrown in.  It tells the story of a world that is dying, where there is crime, drugs and pollution taking over.  A group of people decide to leave their city life behind and start a new life in the wilderness.  Only there's something waiting for them there.<br />I found that I liked the way he took all of these different characters and put them together.  The way they interacted was realistic.  Cuyler was definitely stereotypical but unfortunately, I have a couple of neighbors who could be his evil twin.  There's plenty of adventure and a little romance thrown in all the while telling a story that could possibly come true someday. The concept of nature striking back is a rather interesting and thought-provoking one.  It makes you take a look at the way humans treat the planet and reminds us that what we have been doing is not good for our earth.<br />This book won't appeal at all to people looking for traditional horror but can be enjoyed immensely if you have an open mind.  I literally sat there for hours glued to this book and found myself almost wishing that I was there in this new fictional world at the end.  I loved it!	2001-04-04
US	50774697	R3OV0SN78N806N	1582340641	406052656	The Mullet: Hairstyle of the Gods	Books	5	19	22	N	N	My first love wore the Mullet!	Oh, what can I say about the Mullet?  My first boyfriend back in 1988 wore the Mullet with pride.  After reading this hilarious book, I kept laughing until tears rolled down my cheeks.  I didn't know the name of it in those days.  His last name was Brodeur so through the years we've always called the Mullet the &quot;Brodeur&quot;.  Now I have the true name of this hairdo and its perfect.<br />I thought this book was a great look at a major phenonmenon that is now spawning websites by the dozen.  I was dumped for a girl with a full-on Mullet and as my Mullet ex said &quot;she has the coolest hair&quot;.  I guess there is something about Mullet-heads that stick together and boy do they love to rock!  If you want a great laugh, buy this book.  To me, its comic gold.  Hilarious, well-written and just fun.  This book can make you laugh and its a great gift for friends.  I will buy this for my Mullet obsessed friends who will get a big kick out of it.<br />Someone in a review asked what does Twinkies have to do with Mullets. I say Twinkies have everything to do with Mullets.  This is the nectar of Mulletdom.  Anyone with true mulletude loves a twinkie more than life.  Its up there with air guitar, BMX bikes and talking in a ultra-loud voice!	2001-03-03
US	50774697	R1QB9CHBUM40BT	0786013109	499896225	Eternity	Books	5	10	13	N	N	One heck of a horror novel!	Considering there was no summary or reviews when I purchased this book, I wasn't really sure if I should buy it or not.  The determining factor was how much I had enjoyed her previous novels.  Tamara Thorne has definitely put herself to the top of the horror list with this incredible book.  Eternity is a picturesque little mountain community nestled in the California mountains.  New Agers flock there for Icehouse mountain, the UFO and Bigfoot mecca of California.  Eternity is full of strange characters but there is something else there - a serial killer.<br />This book was one of those I hated to put down yet didn't want to finish.  I just kept wishing it would go on and on.  Its a rollercoaster ride of a horror novel where nothing is as it seems.  Its horror yet a serial killer novel also.  Considering I'm fans of both genres, I loved this book.  I have to say this is in my top ten favorite books of all time.  Just superb!	2001-03-01
US	50774697	R3RFONA5S7OU9	0671041916	179618738	The Coming Global Superstorm	Books	5	6	9	N	N	An interesting and scary look at global warming!	I'm a big fan of Art Bell's radio show so I had to get this book. I read it with an open mind and enjoyed it immensely.  The predictions for the effects of global warming are frightening indeed.  I found the facts presented to be well-researched and interesting.  Its one of those books that scares you yet keeps you wanting to read the next page. I especially enjoyed the fictional part intermixed with the facts.  The story has a lot of good elements - its frightening, heart-felt and inspiring at the end.  I thought that it would make a really great movie.<br />The warnings presented in this book should definitely be heeded. Though its not all our faults, there are many things we can do to help.  In this book, they present ways to do this.  As the last few years have shown, there is much about the &quot;Coming Global Superstorm&quot; that can and might happen very soon.  This is one of those books that everyone needs to read and take to heart.  I have to give Whitley and Art a bravo for this one.  Its an important warning for our future!	2001-03-01
US	50774697	R27JMOURJVR0LB	0451202341	334925003	Back Roads	Books	5	10	10	N	N	An incredibly brilliant book by a new author!	I have to say that I'm very impressed with this first novel.  Harley Altmeyer is a character with incredible depth that actually stays with you long after the last page.  He's a confused and troubled young man trying to keep his family together after his mother murders his father.  He works two jobs to keep their lives together but slowly begins to unravel after he mets the older, Callie whom he loses his virginity to and after he starts uncovering the shocking truth behind his family.<br />Many people might find the subject matter to be a little offensive.  I think the book was done in a way that was able to take you beyond the disturbing to the truth.  This stuff happens and whether we like to admit or not, it happens every day.  Tawni takes you into this boy's life and sucks you in with the thoughts and feelings of this kid who is in trouble.<br />Highly sexual, beautifully written, I loved this book.  However, if one is offended easily, this isn't for you.  Read it with an open mind and open heart.  A truly brilliant piece of work!	2001-02-21
US	50774697	R3LE035FTYTQV	0743204441	607215606	The Surrendered Wife: A Practical Guide To Finding Intimacy, Passion and Peace	Books	1	20	33	N	N	Another silly self-help book!	How can anyone advice a woman to give up her say in a marriage?  Obviously this former shrew did.  Cool, right?  Not so.  Think about it, is it smart to give up yourself to keep a marriage going?  And if women were so so happy in the old days, why did so many fight against it?  I would never advise any woman to give up her financial responsibilites to her husband. Its just not a wise choice in an age where divorce runs rampant regardless of one being a surrendered wife or an equal partner.<br />To give up all control to someone else is something I personally don't understand. If I truly believed that this is what I would have to do to make a marriage work then I would gladly stay single the rest of my life. This book might save your marriage for a short time but I don't believe it will keep you together. Love, respect and partnership is the key to a good marriage not following this book. It almost scares me to see the lengths women will go to keep a man happy. I just don't want any of it. Marriage is compromise and that is what is most important.  Not falling into gender stereotypes and losing one's self to make your husband happy.  Women should avoid nagging and being catty in a marriage but handing over a checkbook is frightening especially if you are the one good at keeping track of money.<br />A word of caution: if you are a strong woman who follows this advice, you might find temporary peace.  However, this guide will keep a man happy for a while but will you be for long?  I don't think so.  Why did a surrendered wife I know get dumped for a smart, sexy career woman?  Because he said his wife was boring.  True story.  Take it as you will but most men I know do get bored around a certain age and a lot of perfect wives get left for younger, independent woman.  Not that the men are always at fault.  Oh wants a woman with no identity other than wifey?<br />I also have to say that I really find it an eyeopener how many men find this book to be misguided.  Why do they get it and women don't?y get it and women don't?	2001-02-21
US	50774697	R1YE3L4BBC33C5	0671024817	332301994	Wither	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A classic, chilling horror novel!	I just recently finished this book last week and had to write a review of it.  I've loved horror ever since I could remember.  This is one of those books that reminds me why I love it so much. The whole premise of this book - the small town, young wiccan and the slowly building horror hit all the right marks for me.  Its the story of a New England town with a sordid history - the hanging of three witches centuries before.  Now the terror is beginning all over again.<br />I don't want to say much about the story considering I don't want to give it away but what begins unfolding throughout this book is definitely chilling.  This is one of those books that makes you look under your bed or shiver if you here any sounds on your roof in the middle of night.  The creatures in this book are a little different than the classic witch stories which makes it even better in my opinion.<br />All in all, its a great, atmospheric book.  I highly recommend it.	2001-02-19
US	50774697	RQ7KN7C1XH9T6	0786013125	392822507	The Summoning	Books	5	29	31	N	N	A truly, unique vampire story!	I just finished this book tonight and had to come on here to praise it.  I found &quot;The Summoning&quot; to be a dark tale full of eerie twists and turns.  Its the story of a small town who becomes the target of a particularly spooky kind of vampire that I found to be quite different from most others.  This is a vampire who can change forms, who can manifest itself as your darkest fears and who has a uniquely different appearance than the aristocratic, gothic vampire of most novels.  This isn't one of those romantic figures but something hellish.<br />I also liked the characters especially Sue Wing.  She was a very smart, strong heroine.  There's also pages of this that made me genuinely freaked out especially some of the forms this vampire took.  The use of different cultures, the way this book unfolded to the explosive end made this one of the most chilling novels I've ever read.  It was nice to see a horror book where the vampire was so unique. I've never heard of vampires being afraid of jade nor a vampire quite so ugly or so vicious as this one.  I give this 5 stars for its unique and frightening story.	2001-02-12
US	50774697	R3MDQOCH8Q1QNA	0440993229	406240690	Walk Through Cold Fire	Books	5	10	10	N	N	My favorite teenage book of all time!	If one book could characterize my teen years, it would have to be &quot;A Walk Through Cold Fire&quot;.  Though this book was written in 1985, I didn't find it until 1989 and I just fell in love with it.  I completely identified with everyone in this book especially Desiree and her repressed upper middle class background she wanted to shed.  Like the main character, I got involved with a street gang much like the ones in this book.  Their fierce loyalty, their love of each other was just like I experienced in my own neighborhood after they took me in.  All of that had died by the time I got this book so I opened it, began to read and couldn't stop crying.  This is truly the voice of a young teenage girl.<br />All the characters were so believable.  I knew people just like that.  I especially loved Billy who was Desiree's love interest in the book.  These were people who had grown up on the edge yet had integrity too.  Violet was the perfect friend, loyal yet tough as nails.  These are characters who are so much more than just words on paper.  They have an incredible life that stayed inside of me to this day.<br />I'm 28 now.  I have a normal life and I work a job but once I knew a different life.  I can relive those feelings in this book because reading it brings you back to that time, to that place, to those metal years I never could forget even if all it wasn't so glorious.<br />Someone said this book changed their life and I agree 100%.  This captures that time perfectly.  I only wish there were more novels by this author.  She really has a gift with words that's evident to anyone who reads this book.  I'm so happy to find out that there are so many more like me who loved it.  I hope someday they will re-release this because my copy is so tattered and falling apart.  I have to say this is one of the most powerful, moving and awesome books ever.  Incredible!	2001-02-12
US	50774697	R1NUMM6XAFLHU2	0425169693	184894886	Here on Earth (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Beautiful, dark and unforgettable	As I began to read this book, I was struck by how descriptive Alice Hoffman's writing is.  By reading her words, she transported me into someone else's life in a way I found quite breath-taking.  The story starts off like many romance novels.  It tells a story of a woman traveling back home after the death of her caretaker.  Its there she runs into the love of her life and begins an affair with this man though she is married to someone else and her daughter is there with her.<br />This is where the story is somewhat frustrating.  As March begins to become consumed by passion for Hollis, she doesn't care about anything or anyone anymore.  Its a sad story in which a woman is nearly destroyed by her blind love.  Since the author flashes back to her first meeting with Hollis, its easy to see where a young girl's first love can be the one thing she clings to in life.<br />I disagree with one reviewer who said there was poor character development.  I think this is exactly how Hoffman wanted her characters to be.  A first love is often the only love a woman will remember later in life.  There is no love as sweet nor as dangerous when confronted with your first love later on.  One thing I especially enjoyed was the way the story ended up veering unexpectedly into a really dark world.<br />If anything this book is able to tell that love isn't anything like what we believe it to be in fairy tales or in dreams.  And sometimes those we love are not the people we think they are at all.  A truly beautiful dark novel that drew me in.  I would highly recommend it.	2000-11-26
US	50774697	R1SNRFG30FQN6X	0452282195	331831848	The Bluest Eye (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A disturbing look into one child's life.	I just finished this book today and couldn't believe how much it touched me.  If any story has the power to change a person's perspective on life, it is this one.  I'm really surprised at some of the reviews, I guess they  just didn't get it the way some of us did.  Its definitely a book some  people would be uncomfortable with but a story I think everyone should  read.<br />Pecola Breedlove is a little black girl who longs for blue eyes  with the belief that people would love her and care for her if she had  them.  She has a lack of self-confidence, believing she is ugly and her  life is one of sadness and pain.  Throughout the book, you get glimpses  into her life as it changes characters.  These are people who did something  mean to her, who touched her life in a negative way.  These were people who  were angry and took out their anger on this one child.  She was the victim  of everyone who touched her life.<br />There is no happy ending to this story.  Its sad, unbelievably so and it makes you think about the ways even  slightly that you affect people's lives. Pecola never knew what it was like  to be cared for or treated decently.  She was lonely and alone.  Anyone who  was ever a victim will remember how they felt through the story of Pecola.  To me, she's one of the most memorable characters I've read about.	2000-05-28
US	50774697	R36TAYRZS4A6C2	0451192192	260699170	The Store	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A frightening yet ghoulishly fun horror novel	I loved this book!  It is a different kind of horror novel in that it takes a disturbingly typical aspect of every day life, the chain store, and turns it into a horrorfest of strange yet sometimes believable  circumstances.  Of course a lot of it is far-fetched but the power, the  greed, the exploitive nature of these stores rings disturbingly close to  home.  This book is great with details and each page has something  disturbing, shocking and often hilarious to keep the reader hooked.  Even  more it makes you think about these homogenous stores and their influence  on all of us.  It is a must read for those who like something a little  different, a little funny and really scary.	2000-01-06
US	50774697	R23E4BT4C1O5LR	0451933028	867268465	The Green Mile - Six Volume Box Set	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The best book Stephen King has ever written!	I read this book about a year ago and the story has never really left me. I have to say I have never gotten emotional over a book before but this one touched me.  It is truly unforgettable. It was the best book I've read so  far and I have read many.  It might not be a favorite for some SK readers  but the characters, the story and the depth of the novel makes a must read  for anyone.  Phenomenal novel.  It deserves more than five stars.	1999-12-10
