US	50778601	RD1Q52QGFHQHR	0060975768	502570587	We Were Soldiers Once... and Young: Ia Drang--The Battle That Changed the War in Vietnam	Books	4	3	10	N	N	Courage, Life,and Death in a Combat Zone	There has been an explosion of books recently about the Vietnam War and its history. THese books range from those focusing on personal experiences in and out of combat, and books that have brought forth reinterpretations of the war's causes, effects, and our failures there, and even of the Vietnamese's impressions of the war and its effects on their country. As the United States has opened its archives, so have China, Vietnam, the Soviet Union and other players in the war. Many assumptions about the war's legacy and impact on world history and politics are changing. But despite all the new information, the grim realities of combat rarely change, and this book is among the best at graphically portraying life in a combat zone.  THe Battle of Ia Drang, one of the first significant engagements of the War between US and North Vietnamese troops, was one of the first indications that the enemy was determined, well-prepared and every bit as brave as our own troops, despite their significant disadvantage in firepower. Though we won the battle in terms of the body count, the Vietnamese learned they could stand face to face with American troops and inflict grave harm. It was a lesson for both sides. American military strategists and General WEstmoreland based their attrition strategy on this early encounter and the heavy kill ratio in our favor. The authors of the book give an almost minute by minute account of the details of the battle, naming the wounded, the dead and following many individual acts of bravery and courage. At the end of the book the authors also account for what happens to the soldiers after the war, and in the beginning of the book they list those who died. Its a heart wrenching, emotional account of warfare at its most basic level, and few can read the book  and maintain any emotional distance. Those of you who are looking for something more than a gory and bloody reenactment of the battle and its longlasting effects on the men and their families are reading the wrong book though. Its not a history book on Vietnam. THough the authors (a former Colonel and a career war reporter) clearly have some thoughts about went went wrong there, they focus mainly on the battle itself and the men who fought in it. Among their criticisms of the conduct of the war are: the miltary policy of letting soldiers leave after one year of service, thus denying the military the ability to retain men of experience, the sending in of combat units with shortages of men and supplies, and the failure of the government to allow the troops to pursue retreating enemy soldiers as would normally be dictated by miltary strategy. THese things did happen, and no one who reads this book can question the bravery of American soldiers, or the Vietnamese for that matter, who's side is often told in this book. HOwever, history has shown that remedying these matters would likely have done little to change the outcome of the war. It was the wrong war in the wrong place at the wrong time. Many military men (including the authors of this book) still seem unable to conceive of that. THe war was a civil war and cultural revolution we should have stayed out of. Its clear that the military was unable to think beyond military terms. So while this book is among the best at describing the harsh realities of combat, its certainly not one of the most significant books to come out of the Vietnam War, despite the words of Colonel David Hackworth (the most decorated living American soldier) on the cover. Its one of the best books on what war is really like, and its also a living testament to those who fought there, but if you want to understand the Vietnam war and the folly of our involvement, read something else. One other note worth mentioning, as one might expect of a book written by military types, the book, in many ways glorifies the sacrifices of those who died there, and at times, even glorifies the realities of combat. Its done in a subtle way, but its quite a contrastfrom other books such as  A Rumor of War by Philip Caputo or Dispatches by MIchael Herr. There is no questioning of why they were there or what they were doing. Clearly they were good soldiers, but the book would have been even better if it had taken a critical look at what happend. BUt again, that is not its purpose and one must respect the authors for what it is the book does do. A must for war historians and those who want to know what war is like.	2001-01-11
US	50778601	R22GVZONWS84P4	0618012095	790983773	The Best American Sports Writing 2000 (The Best American Series)	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Great series that's focusing more on alternative sports	Many readers may take issue with the fact that this series represents sportswriting at its best. THe editor, Dick SCHaap is really a hack writer, at best. I'm sure there are many other examples of fine sportswriting out there. The series seems to be making efforts to dig up newer, alternative writers who often become as much a part of the story as what they are writing about, though no one will do that better than Hunter THompson! The strength of this series is that its increasingly focusing on lesser known or alternative sports, or just on activities that are beyond our normal view of what constitutes recreation. There are pieces on cockfighting, long-distance swimming, poker playing, bullriding, ultra-running, and guns. In fact, there are only a few pieces of writing on the big 4 sports of football, baseball, hockey and basketball. While this may turn off many a reader who prefers to read about their larger than life heroes, to me its a strength in that we get to read about people who are just as dedicated to their craft (however obscure), perhaps more so, than those athletes in the well known sports. But just when we get comfortable with a new sport, there will be a piece written totally tongue-in-cheek, such as the one by Garirison Keillor. I've read the books in the series going back a number of years and the series seems to be going more and more in this direction. This to me is its appeal, though those of you who are fans of the more conventional sports may take issue. Its not the best of American Sportswriting, but is among the most diverse of American sports writing. Many of the pieces were interesting enough to make me wish there was more to read on the event or sport, or that I could find a longer version of the story by the same author. Looking forward to next year's book.	2000-12-29
US	50778601	R1EBNOINET87V7	0805032061	972606202	Blood and Water: Sabotaging Hitler's Bomb	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Truth is better than fiction/excellent movie material!	Though history has shown that the Nazis were not nearly as close to developing the bomb as was then believed, it does not diminish the impact of this edge of your chair thriller! THe allies, both British and Americans, attempt a series of missions to blow up the German heavy water plant (heavy water is used to make nuclear  reactors, a key element in building a nuclear bomb) that was located in Norweigan territory. British glider pilots are unsuccessful and captured and tortured by the Nazis, a second attempt is successful in bombing the plant but does not do enough damage. THe book chronicles these and other espionage efforts to destroy the plant and does so in a quick style that will keep you reading til finished. THis book would make an excellent action/adventure WWII thriller type movie and I hope someone buys the rights to it. AS many of you know, the author, Dan Kurzman has made a career of documenting WWII stories. He's a good storyteller, though not quite as good a writer. If you enjoy this book, then try his story of the sinking of the Indianapolis, the ship that carried parts of the Atomic bomb and saw a large number of its crewman get eaten by sharks. The book demonstrates that there are enough true to life thrillers out there, so why bother with fiction when you can read a thriller and learn something about history at the same time!	2000-12-11
US	50778601	R2NNIXHZAMYM4G	1891620223	435584163	Argument Without End: In Search Of Answers To The Vietnam Tragedy	Books	3	25	27	N	N	No redemption yet for McNamara, but better than last book.	McNamara continues his quest for both personal redemption and additional explanation to back his conclusions from his last book, that &quot;we were wrong, we were terribly wrong.&quot; THe book unites a vriety of US historians, government officials and academics with some of their counterparts from Vietnam. On paper the idea seems to be a good one, but the book does not read well nor does it contain the hoped for insights that one  might have expected to take place about a war that is now some 20 years past. THe fault is not entirely McNamara's; the Vietnamese are recalcitrant and unable to get past the dogma of the one-party state they come from, they admit little and are far more willing to blame rather than pursue any meaningful discourse.  There are a few good  revelations; for one McNamara finally admits that the war, except at the very beginning, was never really about the Vietnamese, it gradually became more about us saving face and presenting a tough exterior to the Soviets and Chinese. Also, the Gulf of Tonkin Incident,  the basis for escalation of the war, rather than being an orchestatred effortt by the Soviets or CHinese, was actually just a Vietnamese low-ranking official protecting the harbor. Mcnamara and the other participants show how misperceptions by both sides about the other's motives resulted in gradual escalation, and how these perceptions destroyed many diplomatic opportunities. THe Vietnamese indicate they were more willing to negotiate than we had thought, but only if we agreed to stop the bombing, something we never did for any length of time. Also interesting is that the Vietnamese, early i nthe war, were more than willing to consider a coalition governemnt in SOuth Vietnam, providing the NLF was part of it. This of course was the sticking point, any NLF involvement was a no-no for the US. But the book is constructed poorly, alternating between oral history, transcripts of actual discussions, and McNamara's own opinions and those of otherAmericans. Indeed, it often gets so confusing that we do not know who's opinion we are listening to. McNamara tells us that he undertook the project so we can learn from our mistakes, yet he fails to address the critical lesson of the war, that it had no moral basis, was inconsistent with our stated principles, and never amounted to anything other than mass devastation of a foreign land. And despite his oft repated ststement that the war was America's mistake, there is more and more evidence coming out that men like McNamara ignored the bulk of the evidence about the effectiveness of the war and the bombing during their time in power. THus the book still seems, like the first one, to be an attempt to cleanse his conscience than really uncover the truth. Finally, it is also clear that McNamara had no head for politics and still doesn't. So while the book answers some questions, it also raises some new ones. If any lessons are to be learned fro mthis book, they should be played out over decisions about future conflicts, but the authors seem unable to draw them. Ultimately, the book is a failure. especially when compared with some of the new one's coming out such as American TRagedy by Kaiser, or Choosing War by LOgevall. Buy these instead.	2000-12-05
US	50778601	R3FVJUHJ8U3W0I	0786014067	802263204	Daring The Sea: The True Story of the First Men to Row Across the Atlantic Ocean	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Retro-adventure story worth reading!	With all the adventure stories out there, this one from the late 1800's has been lost or forgotten until revived by the author. THis is a disservice, because the two men who rowed across the Atlantic in this story from New YOrk to FRance in an open rowboat have yet to have their time of 55 days equaled. In an age of GPS tracking systems, fancy boat materials and Olympic type training regimens, two clamdiggers from New York did what no one has done before or since.THe author gives us a little background on their lives, and reconstructs their voyage from the original journals. What these men went through in an open boat across the Atlantic rivals the voyage of Shackleton from the Antarctic. Though one could argue that the two men did the deed for less than honorable reasons (they hoped for fame and fortune), both men were so low key that we quickly forgive them. And because it takes place in the 1890's we realize that they were not adrenaline seekers, just men who sought a little better position in the world for themselves and their families.<br />THe book is a fast 300 page read that sucks you in and has you on the edge of their seat as the two men withstand storms, capsizing, sharks encircling their boat and of course, their own doubts and those of their families.<br /> A thrilling ride!	2000-11-26
US	50778601	R3MUMTERGR3123	0801863449	880667185	Vietnam Shadows: The War, Its Ghosts, and Its Legacy (The American Moment)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Vietnam is still with us and will be so for a long time!	Mr. Isaacs has done a credible job of detailing the ongoing tragedy of Vietnam and its impact upon our politics, our foreign policy, our citizenry, Vietnamese immigrants and many veterans groups and issues, especially the POW/MIA issue. THat he does so in so short a book is a testament to the emotional power of his writing. However, the chapters are uneven, some are so short as to be  barely worth mentioning, others give us an overview of issues without going to deeply in to them. The most interesting chapters are the ones on the POW/MIA issue and our ongoing Vietnam syndrome. In the POW/MIA chapter, the author nicely skewers those who continue to perpetrate the myth that there are still POW's in Vietnam. Inded this is one of the greatest postwar tragedies, that many groups feed off the grief of families by keeping this issue at the forefront of their conciousness (and their pocketbook) when in fact there is no proof, living or otherwise of any remaining POW's in Nam. Isaacs points out the folly of the issue and the fact that it keeps us from both reconciling with the families of those lost and normalizing relations with a country that is eager to put the war behind it as well. But the author points out that the war was never really about Vietnam, but more about us, and that is the real tragedy and the source of many of the misunderstandings of the war. The longer the war went on, the more the issue became saving American pride and face, and the less the issue was the people of Vietnam and the impact the war had upon them. Indeed, most postwar discussion focuses on what might have happened if we had either pulled out earlier or let the military unleash its full power, instead of talking about what did happen and why. This only lends credence to the authors point that the issues of the war have not yet been resolved, nor are they likely to be for a long time. If you are looking for a good overview of post Vietnam war issues, this is an excellent source book; but if you want to go into depth on one then its probably not what you are looking for, though it is useful in framing issues. Since this book came out there has been a huge output of information on the war, much of it excellent, though much of it falls into the trap of discussing what ifs instead of what did happen. And those of us who follow politics have heard the frequent references to the Vietnam syndrome by Clinton, BUsh, Reagan and others, both in describing past conflicts, i.e. the GUlf War, BOsnia, Haiti, and in framing future foreign invlovements, i.e. John McCain. Though the author only glazes over the issue i nthe syndrome chapter, another tragedy of Vietnam is that the U.S still has no recognizable foreign policy i nthe post cold war world. Good, if too short of a book, though unquestioably many will find fault with the author's politcs, even in a post war context.	2000-09-25
US	50778601	RASL28CHOBV4X	0385413726	244095611	From Beirut to Jerusalem	Books	4	62	73	N	N	Good Book on Seldom Understood Part of the World!	Those of you who follow and followed the events in the Middle East, Persian Gulf and the Gulf War, but seek a broader explanation of the sources of antagonism and conflict in the ARab world, would be enlightened and entertained by FRiedman's book. A Pulitzer prize winning correspondent for the New York Times, he spent ten years in Beirut and Jerusalem reporting first handthe violence, suspicion and hatred that is part of life in that region. The standing norm in the Middle East, according to Friedman is what he calls &quot;Hama Rules&quot; the pitiless and remorseless pursuit of political and economic ends through bloodshed. This attitude is rampant in all of its regimes, including Israel. Its source is the tribal politics and and deep rooted political tradition of authoritarianism, as well s the centuries of colonialism and subjugation that the region's peoples have endured. With a reporters eye for detail, Friedman analyzes many of the decisions that are familiar to us: the Reagan decision to send marines to Lebanon, The Palestenian uprising in Israel, the history of the PLO and the Arab-Israeli conflict are all analyzed in detail. Friedman is careful to point outthat the region's conflicts are not merely between Arab and Jew, but between Muslims and Christians, between Arabs, between different Muslim sects and different nation-states. In fact, Friedman finds the region's complexities beyond the comprehension of most American diplomats (no surprise!).  This lack of understanding has resulted in numerous foreign policy blunders by the U.S. The first version of the book was written prior to the Gulf War, but its observations are still relevant, though you can now get a new edition. Hussein's regime is discussed at length and characterized as merely the latest version of &quot;Hama Rules.&quot; Despite possible bias as a result of his Jewish heritage, Friedmans reporting is critical of both the Israeli's brutal treatment of the palestenians and of the PLO's disregardfor the lives of its own people. My one criticism of the book is that Friedman has an idealized view of the nature of a Jewish state. This is to his credit, but as a result he often holds the Israeli's to a higher moral standard in their behavior than he does the other nations and groups, especially the PLO. But for those of us who believe in the power of reason to settle disputes and are infected with American optimism and values, the book is a grim reminder that there are places in the world that operate very differently from what we understand. He explains many of these differences in the book, often thru his deft personal touch and numerous firsthand experiences. Highly recommended!	2000-09-22
US	50778601	R136ZNZINEF9EG	1573228184	553362454	The Cigarette Girl: A Novel	Books	3	11	14	N	N	Nick Hornby like female confessional is nice one night stand	Every once in a while one needs to read a nice trashy novel. When I make that choice, I don't want lots of heavy plot and characters to get in the  way. This book fills the bill. THe main character, Elizabeth WEst is a  tough-talking HOllywood screen writer who keeps you laughing with her quick  wit and gutty one liners as she searches for true love and/or good sex, or  at least her next good movie line. The book's also reminiscient of a Nick  Hornby novel - its the female version of a male confessional, but with a  slightly harder edge and characters that one would expect of a novel that  takes place in the dog-eat-dog world of Hollywood. Though the book has no  redeeming social value-thats what makes it a trashy novel -it certainly is  a lot of fun, and, like a good one night stand, once its over, you'll  probably forget about it. Some readers and reviewers (see other reviews)  will probably call the lead character a bimbo, but it only shows that their   missing the point and taking the book too seriously! I'll bet most guys  (and many girls) would love to meet or be Ms. West! So the next time you  need a break from reading serious literature or non-fiction, give this  author a shot. Its a nice debut, and I'll keep my eye out for her next book  when I need something that's light and fun.	2000-09-19
US	50778601	R3805DHMJT90Z9	0684844419	9851575	The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of World Order	Books	4	13	16	N	N	Useful Framework for Analyzing World Politics and Conflicts!	The author has written a must-read book for understanding and attempting  to explain world politics and world conflicts. That many of his predictions  have turned out to be false should not distract from his major thesis that  future conflicts are based on cultural distinctions between the world's  major civilizations, i.e., the WEst, Islamic cultures, Confucian cultures,  Orthodox cultures, etc.Huntington is primarily an academic, so we should  forgive him for dealing primarily in theories. THe book's usefulness lies  not in seeing how often his predictions are true or not, but in using the  theories to attempt to expalin or understand a given situation. No one  theory or book can explain everything, but HUntington's observations  attempt to provide us with some background in which to understand the  world. THe book came out a number of years ago and clearly overestimated  the Asian economic boom and undestimated the vitality of the current U.S.  economy. But his sections on politics i nthe Middle east and Muslim  cultures helps to explain the sources of past and future antagonism between  the West and Islam. The book is also a real eye-opener in helping  the  reader understand how the rest of the world views the West. While the  author makes clear that the rest of the world wishes to mimic the  modernization of the west and its technology, this modernization is not the  same thing as WEsternization. THis is the trap most Americans fall into in  analyzing the global economy and culture. All in all a fascianting book and  a must read for students of international politcs and relations! THe many  negative reviews miss the point that a book's utility is not in how often  it makes correct predictions, but its utility in framing issues.	2000-09-06
US	50778601	R2PLOES3V2JTNB	080504695X	713778363	A Rumor of War	Books	5	59	61	N	N	&quot;WAR IS HELL,&quot; and you are right there!	To anyone who thinks of war as a glorious enterprise or some kind of  Nintendo game, they should read Caputo's book. THe author himself was once  an idealistic, glory seeking young man eager to participate in &quot;a  splendid little war,' but by book's end he has become an unfeeling,  unremorseful and scared shell of a human being. THis may have been what  kept him alive, but Caputo is angry over the deep emotional damage done to  many men like himself who were thrust into a civil war and cultural  revolution in a country and place we had little understanding of. Caputo  manges to show us how this transformation took place. Its not a pleasant  read or ride, but in the process we discover why the war was unwinnable at  a price America was willing or should have paid, and what damage we  inflicted on men like Caputo in putting them in such a difficult position.  BUt don't read the book for any lengthy history or diatribe on Vietnam or  America's policies toward it. First and foremost its a memoir of war and  preparing for war. From boot camp thru training, to Vietnam and back home,  Caputo keeps you riveted with descriptions of crawling through leech filled  swamps, nights in the sticky jungle being consumed by insects, and  witnessing the irony of pigs eating charred human corpses. When not  focusing on battles, we are privy to the insanity of body counts and body  bags and the tense downtime between jungle patrols, as well as the dynamics  of a Marine platoon. Caputo's insights and ability to reflect back upon the  events and physical and emotional carnage he inflicted upon himself and  others is what makes this memoir special. There is also no small irony that  Caputo was part of the first marine unit to go to Nam, and that as a  journalist some 10 years later, he was one of the last to leave. Anytime I  think of war as a glorious enterprise, I need only pick up this book and  read a few sections. Should be required reading in war history courses! If  you liked Dispatches by Michael Herr, this book is even better.spatches by Michael Herr, this book is even better.	2000-08-25
US	50778601	R2OCF793B8DUWH	0684842548	62503323	Vietnam the Necessary War: A Reinterpretation of America's Most Disastrous Military Conflict	Books	3	20	26	N	N	Thought provoking, but simplistic analysis.	That the author of this book attempts to stake out some middle ground on our failures in Vietnam, would appear, on the surface, to be a worthy  exercise. I for one am in agreement with the author that both the extreme  left and the extreme right's views of the war are overly simplistic. Lind  puts the war into the bigger picture of the cold war that lasted from the  end of world war II to the fall of the wall. THe book, in its savage  portrayal of the North Vietnamese and Ho Chi MInh, is sure to garner the  support of the right and enrage liberals who saw the war as a civil war we  should have stayed out of. BUt to the author's credit, those on the right  who fault the government for not letting the military unleash its full  power are sure to be infuriated by the author's criticism of the miltary  and its leaders lack of imagination and competence in dealing with a  guerrilla type  war it was completely unprepared for. But in attempting to  stake out some middle ground, the author has tried to make many arguments  overly simplistic. Furthermore, his constant obvious and not so obvious  attempts at casting everything  in terms of good and evil takes away from  the book's attempt to stake out some middle ground between both views of  the war and those who were on each side. That there was more than two sides  to the war also seems to escape his attention. It was not just a war  between the U.S and the Soviets as fought by their puppets, but one  involving a myrad of sides and issues, as well as explanations. In the end,  the only thing one really takes away from the book is that no one  viewpoint, including this author's, is sufficient at chroniciling the  causes, execution, and aftermath of the war and  America's invlovement in  it. One must, if one seeks to really undestand what went on there, read a  plethora of books on the war. They would include; Fire i nthe Lake by  Frances Fitzgerald, The Best and the Brightest by David Halberstam, A  Bright Shining Lie by Michael Sheehan,  Vietnam by Stanley Karnow,  About  Face by Colonel David Hackworth, WE were Soldiers Once, and YOung, by  Galloway, and Dispatches, by Michael Herr. Real history, real understanding  of its consequences, is ultimately far more complicated than this book or  any one book can account for. With the war's end really only 25 years  removed, and its conseqences still being played out in the world, the final  word o nthe war has not yet likely been written anyway.	2000-08-04
US	50778601	R29U22Y1C8KYDI	0380727412	99165614	Poison	Books	3	13	15	N	N	Rich prose on the princess, the pauper and bodily fluids	Kathryn Harrison's lush and dark prose chronicles the dual tale of a  doomed queen and a poor peasant girl, both victims of the Spanish  Inquisition. THe book's descriptions of life in SPain during the  INquisition seems well researched and the writing is compelling enough to  keep you reading. THe many bodily fluids emitted by the characters, sperm,  blood, milk, sweat, vomit, etc. would seem to be a metaphor for the  cultural and spiritual &quot;poison&quot; of the times. However, most  readers are likely to latch on to one character or the other as being more  interesting.Both lives, those of the queen, Maria Luisa, and that of the  peasant girl, FRancesca, are told by Francesca, but her obvious distance  from the Queen's life does not allow her to carry it off. We know little of  her thoughts and desires, she is thus denied any real dignity or persona.  Harrison might have done better to let each tell their own story and then  have them merge in some significant way, but each story never does  intersect. Harrison is a master prose stylist, but the story is not quite  able to carry the book. It actually could have been longer and given us  more detail about the INquisition itself, which remains everpresent i nthe  story, but always behind the scenes and hidden from view. Balancing life in  the castle with life in the fields  proves too difficult a task in this  short a book (310 pages). Furthermore, the dual structure of rich and poor  is further confused by the author's seeming desire to write both a darkly  atmospheric setpiece of the era and a  tribute to the power of love,  Harlequin style. THe prose is rich enough, but the lines of the story are  so obvious that the book, in the end, offers few surprises; we are not at  all shocked by the sad ending to the story. A book for admirers of style  over substance, or for historians of the era, but not recommended for the  casual reader.	2000-08-04
US	50778601	R2TW7ECD0XB977	0679781587	823326041	Memoirs of a Geisha: A Novel	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Highly atmospheric novel, but ultimately shallow.	There is a bit of voyeurism in the title of Golden's first novel.Told inthe voice of Sayuri, a girl bought from her parents at a young age and  delivered into Dickensian misery, she is later trained to become a  prominent geisha in pre-war Japan. The book hints at  providing an intimate  glimpse into a strange and somewhat tawdry profession devoted to ritualized  sexual display. And while it can be refreshing to confront the Japanese  images of sex and seduction; the bare wrist, elaborate costumes, and the  &quot;split peach&quot; hairstyle, Golden is ultimately more of a curator  than a voyeur. He does not go into the geisha dressing room, the entire  book is more like a runway fashion show. In fact, much of the book is like  a fairy tale. Sayuri is Cinderella, a naive country girl who achieves big  city success and the love of the man she has long worshipped, despite the  evil plotting of her enemies. Hatsumomo is the cruel stepsister who is  constantly planning Sayuri's downfall; the Chairman is a delicate Price  Charming who stays out of the action until the right moment. Nobu is the  fairy tale beast, a noble, gruff, deformed and misunderstood,  but  ultimately more interesting suitor who actively pursues Sayuri; the Geisha  who befriends Sayuri is her only ally in a cruel world. Like most  fairytales, Sayur's desire for the Chairman is not demonstrated thru the  logic of the story. Most of Golden characters fail to display any depth or  complexity; they are but shallow fairy tale caricatures, right down to the  gruesome Dr. Crab. Golden does seem more interested in desribing the  rituals of being a geisha, and one does wonder if he might have served his  cause better by writing a work of nonfiction. But in a work of fiction, he  is not bound to tell the truth, he can construct his novel any way he  chooses. It is rich with atmosphere, but ultimately has little substance. I  was quite taken with the book initially, but the lack of self-reflection or  observations by any of the characters about their life or circumstances  never does come about, and I grew increasingly frustrated. Indeed the novel  is much like a geisha, bautiful and captivating on the outside, but with no  real inner beauty. It reads like the work of a scholar (Golden is one) not  the memoirs of a flesh and blood woman, though the book's run on the  bestseller lists indicates we can all be voyeurs too!	2000-08-04
US	50778601	R3NIF8TB6OZJBV	0140131671	168179964	East Is East (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Tragedy + Improbability + Boyle = Comedy!	T.C. Boyle, or whatever name he chooses to attach to his writing, is more fun to read than any other American author I can think of. His prose is not for those who seek an author who is economical with his writing, rather,  every word, every sentence, is an adventure to be savored. Beneath all the  literary pyrotechnics however, Boyle raises real issues in all of his work.  In this book, as in many others, he paints a savage portrait of America and  the American dream. IN East is East, its America as perceived by a Japanese  half-breed seaman who jumps ship and lands smack dab in a swamp (both  literally and figuratively) of American excess and shallowness. THe book  alternates between its portrayal of the poor seaman and the colony of  artists he lands in, where he is mistaken for all sorts of figures,  including an artist and an arsonist/murderer. WE follow his misadventures  as one of the writer/artists hides him from the law that seeks him while  she also tries desperately to find the fame, fortune and recogniton she  feels she is so entitled too. One misunderstanding and one funny scene  after another builds up to a tragedy and farce of epic proportions as Boyle  rips apart every misconception Americans and foreigners have of one  another, what they do, and how they live.  AS in some of the author's other  books, especially Tortilla Curtain, his dual structure alternates between  the two main characters. In East is East, its the Japenese seaman and the  hack female writer in residence at the artists colony who winds up using  him (in more than one way!) to write a story. The danger in any dual  structure is that we will be more sympathetic to one story over the other.  Boyle hints at where his sympathies lie by naming the seaman Hiro (Hero?),  but I was not swayed. The weakness of Boyle's farce is that he so lambasts  all the characters that he ends up denying any dignity to any of them. But  still, of all of BOyle's books, this one is the most fun to read, butshould probably not be taken as seriously as some of his other work. Just  enjoy the author's unparalled use of the English language and the brilliant  ways he skewers nearly everyone in the book. Can't wait for the next one,  due out in September 2000!	2000-07-31
US	50778601	R2J3P1721IR6WD	067978117X	922854694	The Living and the Dead: Robert McNamara and Five Lives of a Lost War	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Unusual book on McNamara and lesser known war victims	Hendrickson's unusual book succeeds on many levels. Its a fascinating biography and portrayal  of the flawed Secretary of Defense, Robert McNamara. It also portrays five other figures from the war; the Quaker who  immolated himself outside McNamara's window, an Army nurse and an Army  private, a Vietnamese family, and the man who tried to throw McNamara off a  boat near Martha's Vineyard. While each of these portrayals has some merit  and interest, the author's attempt to make cosmic connections between them  only seems to trivialize each of them in the broader picture. The book is  at its best when it focuses strictly on McNamara and his&quot;crime of  silence&quot; in not speaking more forcefully against the war while in  office and after he left office. The author leaves little doubt that  McNamara told outright lies to Congress and the public. While I am  sympathetic to the fact that any public figure and especially Executive  Branch bureaucrats must often defend views or policies that are counter to  their own, McNamara clearly tried to play both sides of the fence, i.e. be  for or against the war, depending on the situation or who was listening. He  may have been a brilliant number cruncher, but he never got the meanings of  the numbers themselves or saw the bigger picture until it was too late.  Even if he did, and he may have, he did litle about it until his own book  was published, a book that comes across according to the author (and this  reviewer) as a short apology and then a massive rationalization. All in all  its a fascinating and well-written book, but much of its biographical focus  on others besides McNamara borders on the trivial. I can understand and  appreciate the authors wish to document how the war and McNamara affected  some people, but if that is what you are looking for I suggest you read one  of the fine oral histories written by Vietnam vets. For this reason the  book is not a significant contribution to the literature on the war and its  aftermath, though its worth reading for its focus on McNamara.	2000-06-02
US	50778601	R1DCU8417LTIWG	0553580531	409245980	Gates of Fire: An Epic Novel of the Battle of Thermopylae	Books	4	8	9	N	N	War may be work, but Pressfield also makes it entertaining!	According to the Spartans, war is work, not mystery, but Pressfield makes it very entertaining too!THe book replays the famous battle at THermopalye and the epic stand by the Spartan s. And along the way we may even learn  something about Ancient Sparta, the GReeks, the ways of the ancient world  and the ancient warrior mindset. If you want to read about war and aren't  afraid to admit you crave a little violence as entertainment, then this  book is a refreshing alternative to the high tech impersonal violence so  prevalent in the spy genre. Nothing is more personal than a sword or spear  in your guts! However, the author manages to bestow honor  upon those who  fight, no matter which side. The author has carefully reconstructed the  ancient world (read the acknowledgements for source material) but also  given us a cast of unforgettable characters. THe heroes, like Dienekes,  Polynikes, Alexandros and other fought nobly, died honorably and revealed  their lives and culture to us in the process. And surprise, surprise, the  last and most enduring testament of the book is to the women who support  and grieve for them. I enjoyed the history and like any testosterne driven  male, I loved the graphic battle scenes. If they make a movie of this it  will make Gladiator seem like a Sunday picnic!	2000-06-02
US	50778601	R39CBTNPKLTKBT	0395901383	812566143	Echo House	Books	3	5	7	N	N	For hard-core political animals only!	I have not read any other Ward JUst books, so I cannot comment as to whether or not this is his best. The writing is certainly of high quality, as are the descriptions of Washinton life and the character's love-hate  relationship with the political process. The problem is that neither the  story nor the characters are enamoring enough to compel you to keep  reading. Politics itself is the star of this book and while for many of you  that may be enough, I needed a little more substance to sink my teeth  into.THe three generations of the Behl family, who play the political  influence game both on and behind the scenes are not given enough depth or  characterization to make you like or even dislike them. Perhaps that is  part ofthe authors message, that real political power is neither evident  nor in the spotlight or even really understood by the public, but by book's  end we are virtually indifferent to their plight. Perhaps the same and can  be said for all of us and our general apathy toward politics and the  decline of the political process, but in a book I desperately wanted to  like I was completely indifferent by the end. While few political novelists  have Just's obvious writing skills and ability to comment on the attraction  of politics, many other books have more compelling characters and stories.	2000-05-23
US	50778601	R12AFMID9A423M	0679746129	229718739	Falling Off the Map: Some Lonely Places of The World	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Interesting, but esoteric, and in some cases not so lonely!	Iyer has always written lyrically and insightfully, and he's especially good at picking up on the idiosyncracies of people and places as well as cross-cultural influences and the effects of the world's increasing  globalization (or lack of in some cases). But this book's so called theme  of the loneliness of some destinations rings hollow, in some cases they  appear to be adapting themselves to the changing world quite well. Vietnam  and Australia for example, two of the destinations he writes about, seem to  be making every effort to make themselves both more hospitable to travelers  and more familiar to the outside world. Other destinations, while certainly  identifiable as lonely places, do not yield their charms easily to the  reader, even under Iyer's elegant prose. All in all, Iyer's failure to  convincinly link thru the disparate chapters the theme of the lonlieness of  certain geographical locations does not result in a book that is greater  than the sum of its parts, the book stands better as a series of essays,  (and was probably written that way in the first place). THat said however,  I'm still a fan of Iyer's prose as well as his ability to meld easily into  whatever place he is visiting. Unlike many other travel writers who often  make themselves part of the story or even the whole story, Iyer never  stands out as the ugly American and is able to view the destination with a  somewhat detached though always humorous and unique outlook. But I think  his work was better in Video Night in Khatamandu, a book with themes that  rang truer than this one. While any book by Iyer is a treat for his diehard  fans (like me), this one will have limited broader appeal. But I guess his  stuff is a niche market anyway! Buy it for the writing but don't get to  caught up in the destinations!	2000-04-21
US	50778601	RFAIUA1B7DNSR	0684834979	22753576	From the Shadows: The Ultimate Insider's Story of Five Presidents and How They Won the Cold War	Books	4	21	25	N	N	Insider's look at the cold war and washington politics	Gates has made a solid contribution to the literature on the cold war. Arguing that US foreign policy had far more continuity and coherence than the political positioning of candidates would seem to make it appear, Gates  proves that presidents come and go but the bureaucracy remains forever! The  fact that he was a major part of 4 administrations makes it somewhat  self-serving for him to make this argument, but nonetheless, it is probably  true. Gates provides the reader with major insight into many of the fronts  of the cold war, including Latin America, Europe, Afghanistan, and the  Middle East, highlighting how intelligence failures in the late 60's  resulted in the detente policies of Nixon, but the military buildup by the  Reagan administration ultimately bankrupted the Soviet Union. In between  Nixon and Reagan, he gives President Carter a great deal of credit for  being the first president to challenge the moral auhority of the COmmunist  Party to rule. This made him a dangerous enemy i nthe eyes of the Soviets.  According to the author, the year 1983 was the most dangerous year; we  nearly came to blows with the Soviet Union over missle placement, Star wars  and a host of other issues. The book is a bit long and the rough  chronological format results in the author repeating many themes too often,  but it contains enough facts and insights about so many seminal events in  the cold war that its ultimately worth the long hours to finish. What Gates  does not do is assess the price America paid for victory in the cold war,  and ask if it was all worth it. Is the world any safer now than it was  then? Im not sure, but Gates provides us with many fascinating stories  about a time when the world was a two superpower place. He also gives  excellent portraits of each of the presidents he served under. For those of  you unaware of his status, he was the first person to rise from entry level  analyst to CIA Director under George Bush. Overall, an interesting book ifa bit long and perhaps a bit too detailed and insiderish for some, he drops  names as if it was a Hollywood party!	2000-04-13
US	50778601	R2JAICAUPGIA9B	0375703373	181150905	Ship of Gold in the Deep Blue Sea	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Obsession has its rewards!	This book succeeds on several levels. First as an enthralling adventure story - two stories really - one of the doomed ship and one of the man who sought her treasures. The author's recounting of the sinking of the Central America is an enthralling enough adventure story, as is Tommy THompson's  quest to find her. But what really makes the book fascinating is the  author's chronicle of THompson's obsession with the science of underwater  search, underwater technology and recovery, and indeed of his meticulous  planning of the entire venture. Thompson never doubted himself, even when  the best underwater experts in the navy and the private sector told him his  quest was impossible. In reconstructing THompson's life, author Gary Kinder  has given us a fascinating portrait of the inventive and obsessed mind at  work. Finding the treasure and bringing it up is certainly exciting, but  its almost anticlimatic as the real story is THompson himself. Excellent  book, even though the full account of the story is not yet complete as  unfortunately,  the lawyers have taken over.	2000-03-14
US	50778601	R1AG9SG587Y8L0	0679723943	931052096	Fire in the Lake: The Vietnamese and the Americans in Vietnam	Books	5	107	115	N	N	East is east and west is west and never the twain shall meet	Like the Kipling saying, this book portrays the tragic collision of two cultures unable to understand one another. Arguing that American values of freedom, democracy and optimism were inconsistent with  Vietnam's values,  culture, and above all, its bloody history and essentially agrarian  existence, the effort was doomed from the start. THe Vietnamese's sense of  government, history,politics and even conflict is completely different from  our own, as is their cultural tradition of ancestor worship and their  belief in what constitutes effective government (i.e. the mandate of  heaven) and we never took these differences into account. Whether this is  the fault of the military or the U.S government is really irrelevant,  either way it was a crucial factor in the tragedy. Fitzgerald's book is of  course an incomplete picture of the reasons we failed there, but is one of  the most important and overlooked. While other books focus on the flawed  military strategy of endless bombing, destruction and body counts, or the  corruption of both Vietnamese regimes, or the arogance of the US military  establishment, this book hones in on the cultural issue. Its also one of  the best written books on the subject, regardless of the message, one  written with passion and insight, and one that clearly shows that there are  parts of the world that operated and still operate very  differently from  what we understand. While the world might be glowing with the promise of  democracy i nthe new milennium, in the 60's and 70's it was still a place  where ideological differences could sink even the best-intentioned efforts.  Highly recommended, along with The Best and the Brightest, A Bright Shining  Lie, and Stanley Karnow's Vietnam. This quartet of books would give you the  most complete picture of the war and its history.	2000-03-14
US	50778601	R2MU02H9XQN734	0679751254	697517913	Lenin's Tomb: The Last Days of the Soviet Empire	Books	5	33	36	N	N	The Inevitability of Democracy and Freedom	Remnick's prose makes this history/political science book both readable and entertaining. Arguing that the country's downfall was due to the Soviet leaderships' ongoing assault against its country's collective historical  memory and it's feeble attempts to give the country just enough perestroika  and glastnost to keep it at bay are chronicled in a series of chapters or  themes. Ironically, the limited attempts by Gorbachev to instill some  democratic themes was just enough to whet the populace's appetite for more  and set the country on a road it could not turn back from. Interestingly,  Remnick argues that Gorbachev was at heart, a true communist who only  wanted to make adjustments, not change the whole system. One gleans from  this whole book that in a modern world, democratization of the body politic  is inevitable, once its processes are set in motion. Though the author  focuses very little on outside influences contributing to the USS's demise,  i.e. the cold war or &quot;evil empire&quot; policies of the U.S. he has  written the most compelling account of the country's downfall as  orchestrated from within its borders and i nthe process graphically  illustrated the moral degradation and  vacousness of communisim, its  practitioners, and the suffering endured by its people. The Soviet Union  was essentially a Third World Country with a first world military, over 80%  of the population lived in squalor equal to most thirld world citizens. A  stupendous book!	2000-03-06
US	50778601	R7NEVT1MQJP8L	038547816X	382147503	Of Tigers and Men	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Its tigers vs. men and the tigers are losing!	THis book traces the author's obsession with seeing a tiger in the wild, up close and personal. In the process, he visits some of the last vestiges of tiger territory in countries such as India, Sumatra, and Indonesia. The  animal is being hunted and hounded to extinction to the point that 4 of the  original 8 species are gone and there are only about 1000 tigers left in  the wild, if current estimates are to be believed. He documents the losing  fight that several individuals are fighting to save the animal, and he  encounters some bizarre characters along the way that add toi the  entertaining nature of the book. The book is especially critical of the  Japenese, who are the world formost destroyers of the worlds natural  resources. Unless drastic steps are taken, the tiger will be extinct in the  wild in 25 years or survive only as a pathetic remnant. The author  carefully balances the the concerns of those who want the animal to survive  with those who see it as a menace that kills and destroys as its habitat is  rapidly being reduced. A quick, engrossing, if a bit overly romantic of a  read. If you care about extiction, or just want to stare a wild tiger in  the eye, without winding up as its next meal, then you will enjoy this  book!	1999-12-22
US	50778601	R3NM742M65LC5P	0345426339	256202976	The Measure of a Mountain: Beauty and Terror on Mount Rainier	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Much more to knowing a mountain than climbing it!	Bruce Barcott's riveting book about Mt. Ranier, its geology, history, wildlife and everything else you might want to know is here in this unusual book. If you are a climber however, you may be insulted by the author's  tone. He is highly critical of the macho pursuit of climbing, though he  does yield to the tempatation of Rainier by the end of the book and climbs  it. He calls it the one of the stupidest acts of his life. The lesson is  that climbing the moutain is the poorest way to get to know it.Those of you  searching for another hair-raising adventure story will be disappointed,  but those of you who want a well written, thoughtful and fascianting look  at men, mountains and the lure of a place will love this work. Highly  recommended!	1999-12-18
US	50778601	RUDOJYJMDH1OB	0345426339	256202976	The Measure of a Mountain: Beauty and Terror on Mount Rainier	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Much more to knowing a mountain than climbing it!	Bruce Barcott's riveting book about Mt. Ranier, its geology, history, wildlife and everything else you might want to know is here in this unusual book. If you are a climber however, you may be insulted by the author's  tone. He is highly critical of the macho pursuit of climbing, though he  does yield to the tempatation of Rainier by the end of the book and climbs  it. He calls it the one of the stupidest acts of his life. The lesson is  that climbing the moutain is the poorest way to get to know it.Those of you  searching for another hair-raising adventure story will be disappointed,  but those of you who want a well written, thoughtful and fascianting look  at men, mountains and the lure of a place will love this work. Highly  recommended!	1999-12-18
US	50778601	R151GIQIMGONAV	0812922573	931419704	Demosclerosis:: The Silent Killer of American Government	Books	4	8	10	N	N	I have seen the enemy and it is us!	This book is an insightful analysis of what is ailing our political culture. Our own tendency to want a voice in government has led to an explosion of lobbying and advocacy groups in Washington that is literally  putting our society in gridlock. That the author neglects to blame the  American public and chooses instead to blame lobby groups is the book's  only failing, though this is hardly surprising as we as a society have  always been loathe to blame ourselves, we instead blame our politicans and  the lobby groups. Rauch's book details the explosive growth of lobbying  organization and their impact on politics and policy. His writing style is  sure to entertain the reader and his conclusions are not altogther  negative; he points out that a society as wealthy as our own has always  found ways to adapt to this gridlock and can probbaly afford it more than  we think. But for those of you who are tired of interest group politics in  America, this book is for you! Those of you who think your group is somehow  better or more noble than anyone else's group, that you are somehow  representing the public interest, should be especially interested in this  book! Your delusions will be shattered! Excellent and entertaining book!	1999-12-17
US	50778601	RVN7FXR0ST9GG	0140119906	702863006	Love in the Time of Cholera (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	5	10	13	N	N	The best book from one of the century's great authors	A beautiful work of fiction and a splendid example of magical realism from one of the century's great authors. This book is much better than his other highly acclaimed work, 100 Years of Solitude, and is full of the the style  of magical realism that makes ordinary events seem extraordinary. This is  due to the lush nature of his writing. The book details a man's 50 year  obsession with a woman he cannot have and the hilariously funny ways he  lives his life in spite of it. It also chronicles the more ordinary life of  the woman he obsesses about and her doctor husband. In the end, the poor  obsessed gentleman does get the girl, but the beauty of the story is in the  details. Indeed the story is almost of secondary importance, just sit back  and enjoy Marquez's writing. One of my all time favorite books and an  enduring testament to love and its many forms that are chronicled in the  story.	1999-12-16
US	50778601	R3IW7JS7UMALOB	0446604275	218513537	Primary Colors	Books	3	14	19	N	N	Overly hyped and ultimately disappointing book	I am a regular reader of Joe Klein's work  in the New Yorker and other political magazines, but in this case, the speculation over who wrote the book and who the characters were meant to portray overshadowed the book and  story itself. This political novel about a smooth talking, brilliant,  idealistic but womanizing southern governor who wants to be president led  the press to speculate that the book and its many characters were  carcitures of Clinton and his staff. Klein later identified himself as the  author after initially denying it, and was unfortunately vilified by the  press for his ethics. THe book is funny at times, and is no doubt at least  partly accurate. However, the characters lack any complexity, the book is  more style than substance, andwhile initially compelling,  it drags on as  long as the primary season itself. I suppose one could argue that these are  all part of the authors message, but like most politicians it leaves an  unsavory taste in your mouth by books end. I had really hoped for more from  such a great political writer. he captures the outward and political nature  of the characters, but not the personal side of the enterprise. And after  all, the personal is political, and vice-versa. I'm still a Klein fan  though, and hope he trys again, this time taking a shot at REpublicans!	1999-12-16
US	50778601	R368ZXE78QFF0Y	0684826739	923748360	The Nightingale's Song	Books	5	18	24	N	N	Explores continuing legacy of Vietnam war upon our politics	A fascinating book that profiles five Annapolis graduates who all served in Vietnam, (Oliver North, John McCain, Bud McFarlane, James WEbb, and John Poindexter), and details how  that the war and its tragic aftermath  continues to haunt these men and effect American politics. With the  emergence of John McCain as a presidential contender, the book is even more  relevant now then when it first came out. The author has written a  book  that shows how these men and their compulsion to serve their country can  manifest itself in a variety of ways, some tragic. Highly recommended and  extremely well written, though the author's disdain for those who chose not  to serve is evident throughout the book. He thus ignores the fact that the  many who chose not to serve and protested the war at home may have  shortened the war and saved many American lives. The book also contains one  of the best accounts of the Reagan mystique, and its not very flattering.   A riveting book that combines history, biography and politics, a must read  for anyone interested in the Vietnam War, its aftermath, which included  Iran-Contra,  and its effect on American politics.	1999-12-13
US	50778601	R20URB7O0KHI8C	0816519242	487443238	Under the Devil's Thumb	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Confessions of a Tree Hugger	Though I enjoyed much of this book immensely, calling it a book would be a bit generous. Though its major theme of the importance of a person establishing connectedness to a place rings true, the disparate chapters  and their topics do not lead to a book that is greater than the sum of its  parts. It stands better as a series of essays. Some chapters are full of  the overwrought musings of an overly sentimental tree hugger, others are  just too downright giddy and reek of so much gosh gee willikers amazement  as to be pure drivel. There is also a narcissistic tone to the book that  detracts from many of the aithors very moving and genuine observations.  However, other sections ring so true that they should be lifted straight  out of the book and put on a travel brochure. Mr. Gessner is at his best  when waxing eloquently about the past (his own or anyone else's) or when he  is on his bike ( a kindred spirit with this reviewer), but when he drifts  into reflections on the zen of the moment it seems just too drippingly  forced for this rreviewers taste.	1999-12-11
