US	50788382	RPKBGATWLRSUR	0609610678	874083720	Simply Ming: Easy Techniques for East-Meets-West Meals	Books	5	25	27	N	N	A cookbook that makes you look forward to cooking dinner	If you're a fan of East-West fusion cuisine, you will love this cookbook.  Ming Tsai, acclaimed chef and public television cooking show host, has made his sophisticated, highly flavorful style accessible to the home cook by organizing the cookbook around about 30 \\"master\\" recipes - flavor bases that are made ahead, stored in the refrigerator or freezer, and then later used in a complete recipe.  The flavor bases may involve some prep work (not the least of which is finding the ingredients - you'll need to go to an Asian market) and extended cooking, but once you make one, you can then prepare several seemingly complicated dishes in surprisingly little time.    The book is divided into the following sections: flavored oils and sauce; sambals, salsas, chutneys and pastes; dressings, dipping sauces, and marinades; syrups; broths; rubs and coatings; and doughs and desserts.  Within each section, masters recipe are presented along with 2 or 3 complete recipes and some additional recipe ideas.  For example, the soy-kaffir lime syrup I made tonight is used in chicken breast with glazed cauliflower, glazed salmon with lime sushi rice (yum!), and seared tuna with soba noodle salad.  The book also contains an index that sorts recipes by main ingredient (chicken, seafood, etc.), descriptions of ingredients likely to be unfamiliar to Western cooks, a brief introduction to the main techniques used in the book, and an alphabetical index.    Instructions are straightforward.  While some of the flavor bases require some \\"doing,\\" the recipes themselves are mostly easy and quick enough for weeknight cooking.  Each recipe is illustrated with a beautiful photograph of the completed dish and accompanied by a wine suggestion, ideas for ingredient substitutions, and cooking tips.  One caveat: some of the quantities are not entirely reliable; the yield may turn out not to be what is indicated in the recipe.  This is not a big problem if you are experienced enough to estimate the yield by looking at the ingredient quantities, but would knock the rating down to 4 stars for less experienced cooks. Reviewed by debvh for Amazon.com, 1/29/04.	2004-01-29
US	50788382	R5OMBCHPOS4A	0971851522	930027942	Baking with Mommy Cookbook: Recipes for Kid-Size Ovens	Books	3	176	178	N	N	Great idea, appealing recipes, but be forewarned!	I am having at least as much fun playing with my daughter's new Easy-Bake oven as she is, but ugh, those nasty mixes!  I couldn't wait to try out some real recipes, and the ones in this cute little cookbook are very appealing.  I'm not much of a baker, but the tiny spoons included with the book made it easy to measure just the right amount of all the ingredients.  Unfortunately, I found out the hard way that not all the recipes are sized just right for the pan, and cleaning out an Easy-Bake is not easy or fun at all.  To her credit, the author responded to my email with a note that most of the recipes will fill more than one pan, and to fill each pan only halfway.  In my opinion, that is the sort of information that belongs in the cookbook, but now that you have read it here, you can safely use the book.  Good luck!	2004-01-21
US	50788382	R1OLX2T04F6NJZ	0385499736	545388104	The Discovery of God: Abraham and the Birth of Monotheism	Books	3	18	24	N	N	Fascinating, frustrating biography of the Biblical patriarch	In this exceedingly frustrating book I found some fascinating insights into the Biblical patriarch Abraham, yet the author's style was so off-putting I often found myself wondering why I persisted in reading. Author David Klinghoffer writes from within the Orthodox Jewish approach that views the oral tradition (Midrash), codified by ancient rabbis and interpreted by medieval sages, as revealed truth on a par with the Torah.  In fact, he argues, you can't understand the Torah unless you read it in conjunction with the oral law.  His arguments in favor of his approach are arrogantly overstated yet unlikely to appeal to anyone but a true believer, which was part of what made the book so maddening.  Furthermore, he asserts the factual nature of his account with no regard for the extent to which it is the product of his own selection and interpretation of the traditional texts.  If he had acknowledged that his approach was one among many, and then demonstrated its usefulness, he would have been more likely to win me over.  <br />The author structures the book as a biography of Abraham, interleaving Biblical and Midrashic tales along with selected historical/archaeological evidence (while remaining contemptuously dismissive of those who take a primarily historical approach to the Bible).  Jewish oral tradition provides a wealth of instructive anecdotes with which to flesh out the terse Biblical tale, and the author demonstrates an encyclopedic knowledge of the literature.  At times the dense, discursive, and often bizarre stories overwhelmed the narrative flow and made it difficult to discern the author's main points.  Given the often troubled relations among the three religions that trace their heritage to Abraham, it was surprising that the author reached an ultimately optimistic conclusion, yet he made a thought-provoking case for hope.	2004-01-04
US	50788382	R1W0ALM62CRWAH	0380977761	418035057	Abraham: A Journey to the Heart of Three Faiths	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Interesting if simplistic overview of the Biblical patriarch	In &quot;Abraham: A Journey to the Heart of Three Faiths,&quot; author Bruce Feiler examines how Judaism, Christianity, and Islam tell the story of the Biblical patriarch.  He notes that the Biblical account provides few details, allowing each religion to fashion a patriarch according to its changing needs throughout history.  He reveals important parallels as well as key differences, and organizes his presentation around the tension between the idea of Abraham as the inventor of a universal faith in one God versus each religious group's desire to stake a unique claim on the patriarch.<br />In general, it was an interesting if lightweight overview.  Needless to say, if you will be offended by an essentially historical approach that stands outside the tenets of any particular faith, you won't like this book.<br />Given the weighty subject, I was surprised at what a quick, easy read this book was.  This may be attributed to the author's very well-organized presentation, but also to a rather oversimplified approach.  I was also surprised by the author's optimistic conclusion that the three monotheistic faiths can use Abraham as a point of commonality to bridge their differences when millennia of sad experience (as reviewed throughout the book!) suggest otherwise.	2004-01-04
US	50788382	R37PDTTLQNZJ9M	0670032514	639400730	Cookoff: Recipe Fever in America	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Delicious fun for recipe clippers and creators	As an avid recipe clipper, I've come across some pretty odd concoctions and sometimes just have to wonder, who thinks this stuff up?  Thanks to this warm, funny, and engaging  book, I now know that I can thank the hardcore recipe \\"contesters\\" who focus their considerable energy on finding yet-unheard-of ways to prepare chicken, discovering new  uses for processed foods, and building a better burger.  Chronicling a year's worth of the most high-profile cookoffs, Sutherland presents affectionate and often hilarious portraits of some of the most creative and competitive amateur cooks in America.  She places the recipe-contest phenomenon in a cultural and historical context, but generally keeps the social commentary to a minimum in favor of great reporting from the front lines of the cookoff circuit.  Delicious fun!	2003-12-12
US	50788382	R1Z6FPBT8TH2PU	0345409329	645550608	Blood and Gold (Vampire Chronicles)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	A partial return to form for Anne Rice	I thoroughly enjoyed Anne Rice's first few Vampire Chronicles but began to lose interest as she moved away from epic romance and character development in favor of overly detailed descriptions of the mating habits of the undead.  For me, Blood and Gold, featuring the ancient Roman vampire Marius telling his own story, was a partial return to form.  Marius, a familiar and appealing character, relates tales of love and heartbreak and the rise and fall of civilizations.  He also relates the stories of many of the vampires he meets throughout the years, and all this once-removed storytelling takes its toll.  The dialogue, laden with capitalized vampiric catch-phrases, is horribly stilted, and the distant as-told-to quality of the narrative deprives the reader of Rice's usual lush, sensuous immediacy.  Until Rice comes up with some new ideas I'll sit out the next few installments of the series.	2003-12-04
US	50788382	R23HIUWS88QCXU	0688163173	339916413	Shutter Island: A Novel	Books	1	11	24	N	N	Another disappointed Lehane fan	Having loved Lehane's previous books, I was really looking forward to this one.  What a disappointment!  Whereas his Kenzie/Gennaro series pushed the boundaries of its genre, and Mystic River transcended it altogether, Shutter Island reads like a first draft.  The situation is contrived, the characters are one-dimensional, the dialogue is replete with cliches, and the writing is just plain clunky.  I wanted to abandon the book long before the \\"surprise\\" ending, but having taken it on a plane with me I was stuck with it all the way to the bitter end.  Don't make my mistake! Reviewed by debvh for Amazon.com, 12/4/03.	2003-12-04
US	50788382	R34SKFHCJKYH01	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Not quite the Holy Grail of thrillers	The book unfolds in fairly typical thriller fashion: the protagonist, mistakenly accused of murder, finds himself in possession of something for which the real murderer will kill again.  Therefore he must run from the police and the bad guys alike, while seeking to solve the murder mystery.  The bad guys appear to be part of a larger conspiracy - are they trying to obtain, reveal, or destroy an ages-old secret?  As he works to solve the mystery, biblical scholar Robert Langdon draws on - and explains endlessly - his research regarding secret religious societies and alternate interpretations of key Christian symbols.  I found the history to be interesting if not always accurate.<br />The historical material is grafted onto the basic thriller format without being integral to it, and that is my key criticism of this book.  Unlike, say, Eco at his best, Brown did not make me feel the weight of the esoteric topic under investigation.  Without giving away all the details, I will say that I became increasingly skeptical that the secrets in question would be so earth-shattering if revealed; rather they would be as open to interpretation as the more traditional Biblical canon.  Still, Brown kept me turning the pages even as I felt increasingly frustrated with the clunky predictability of the plot.	2003-09-25
US	50788382	R2DCPU03TH90NS	0374277826	713832506	The Time of Our Singing	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Lyrical, sprawling family drama	This sprawling family drama weaves together seemingly disparate elements as music, physics, and race relations in mid-20th-century America.  Beautifully and lyrically written as befits its musical theme, the main story line is recounted by Joseph, middle child of a German-Jewish physicist and an African-American classically-trained musician, and younger brother and accompanist to gifted singer Jonah.  <br />Music and race define the characters' lives and form the key themes of the story.  Sometimes Powers' descriptions conveyed the feeling of being transported by music; sometimes they conveyed the futility of even trying to describe that feeling.  As brown-skinned, biracial classical musicians, Joseph and Jonah feel marginal in whatever milieu they find themselves, giving their plight added resonance and allowing for the exploration of the whole concept of race.  <br />A secondary theme of the relativity of time, is woven into the manner in which the story is told.  Time moves forward in traditional narrative; it doubles back on itself as the past history of the characters is told; the space between musical notes can last an eternity.  The characters seem to dismiss their father's preoccupation with the nature of time even as it is as integral to their life experience as the more obvious element of race.<br />I give 4 stars instead of 5 because the book eventually becomes overlong and repetitive and because the racial theme at times seemed overplayed.  I'm not qualified to judge whether the novel accurately depicts the experience of being black or biracial in America - and even as I type this I recognize that there is no one black or biracial experience.  However, it seemed to me that many of the characters' experiences could have been interpreted in terms of other factors such as gender or \\"American-ness\\" just as convincingly as race, and that race was too often an easy excuse for family members failure to understand each other.  Spend some delightful hours immersed in this book and see what you think.	2003-09-25
US	50788382	R1UGASMJAYJC31	0385721420	120680919	Three Junes	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Graceful stories of family life and love	This book contains 3 novellas presenting interlocking stories of a single family.  Overall, they are beautifully and gracefully written, each section bringing its main character to a key turning point in his or her life.  The first section, focusing Paul McLeod as he travels through the Greek islands and copes with recent widowhood, nears perfection.  The second, longest, and weakest section, the story of Paul's estranged son Fenno, throws so many issues into the mix that it could have been a 500-page family saga all by itself.  The third section, tangentially related to the first two, is slight but refreshing after the overwrought middle story.  The book is worth reading for its descriptive detail as much as for its plot and characterizations.	2003-09-25
US	50788382	R2KTTVQII6POP2	0399149864	919064525	Pattern Recognition	Books	2	14	23	N	N	High-concept thriller falls flat	This is my first book by William Gibson, and my days as an avid sci-fi reader are years in the past, so I can't comment on how this book fares in comparison with Gibson's prior work or that of his peers.  However, I was curious to see how a reputed master of the cyberpunk genre would address the intersection of commerce, popular culture, and the internet in the post-9/11 world.  I was initially captivated, but ultimately disappointed, with the result.<br />Protagonist Cayce Pollard is a cool-hunter who makes a living scouting out upcoming trends and passing judgment on advertising logos.  Ironically, she is allergic to most brand names and even removes the labels from her clothes.  She is obsessed with the &quot;footage,&quot; a mysterious series of video clips released over the Internet, and the online community of &quot;footageheads&quot; who try to make sense of it.  The story centers on her search for the creator of the footage - a goal she accepts with ambivalence, as those sponsoring her quest surely wish to exploit this artwork and its creator for their own commercial ends.<br />Gibson masterfully portrays a world saturated by consumerism and marketing - but the pop-culture references, overly detailed descriptions of commonplace activities such as checking e-mail and using an internet message board, and even the 9/11 references give the book an already-dated feel.  Perhaps this was a deliberate aspect of the author's ironic approach?  <br />A bigger problem is that Gibson gives us no reason to care about the characters and what happens to them.  We get no sense of what makes the footage and the world of the footageheads so compelling to Cayce, and the subplot regarding her father's disappearance on 9/11 seems like an afterthought.  I won't give away whether Cayce succeeds in her quest, but either way, there is no emotional payoff either for Cayce or the reader.  Furthermore, though structured as a thriller, the story simply isn't all that thrilling.  I forgave Gibson the ridiculous ending in the name of suspension of disbelief, but by the time I got there, I spent more time pondering whether &quot;footage&quot; is an appropriate term for digital video files than caring about how the story turned out.	2003-08-21
US	50788382	R3UDJDTXQ4C7O9	0375727132	750223073	The Dive From Clausen's Pier: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Compelling coming-of-age story	As \\"The Dive From Clausen's Pier\\" opens, Carrie Bell is having doubts about her engagement to her high-school sweetheart, Mike Mayer.  When Mike becomes paralyzed after diving into shallow water, Carrie is faced with a dreadful choice: stay in a place and role that had become suffocating to her, or leave and be known as the woman who abandoned her fiancé in his time of need.  <br />Despite being a college graduate in her early 20's, Carrie has little identity of her own, and her responses are often those of an adolescent.  In her flight to New York City and subsequent drifting, she appears selfish and erratic, obsessing about clothes as if to forge an identity from the outside in.  <br />I found Carrie's story to be compelling, but the book is uneven in its writing and pacing.  The author's rich descriptions made Madison, WI, completely real to me.  By contrast, her Manhattan was vague and unrecognizable - and I'm still trying to figure out how Carrie managed to survive several months there with no income.  At times, Carrie's indecision was frustrating, and her decisions even more frustrating.  I found the ending more satisfying than some other reviewers here, not because I agreed with Carrie's choice, but because it seemed to arise out of her own emerging sense of self - like her or not, Carrie is becoming her own woman.	2003-08-20
US	50788382	R270ELJ2PQ1LB6	0060196726	473690060	The Lives of the Muses: Nine Women & the Artists They Inspired	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Evocative, provocative vignettes of fascinating women	In \\"The Lives of the Muses,\\" Francine Prose uses 9 brief biographical vignettes to explore what it means to be a great man's muse.  She shows how the role of muse has evolved along with women's societal roles, and how intense artist-muse relationships, marked by longing and obsession, take their toll on muse and artist alike.  The women, and their relationships with the men they helped make famous, are so diverse that at times the book is a bit disjointed, but overall it succeeds well.  Prose is hardly an unbiased observer; it is clear what she thinks of each of her subjects, and her opinionated stance makes an interesting subject that much more lively.	2003-07-08
US	50788382	R2CO10MZFZ4AGU	0553569570	505552332	The Apocalypse Watch	Books	1	3	5	N	N	Unreadable!	American spy Harry Latham reappears after an undercover investigation of a powerful neo-Nazi organization bearing information that could expose Nazi sympathizers - or lead to the *collapse* of democratic states and institutions worldwide!  It is up to his brother Drew, and the mysterious Karin de Vries, to save the day!  Full of devices and plot twists worthy of a James Bond movie, the story is told almost entirely in breathless dialogue replete with *italics* and exclamation points!  If you think it's annoying in a 93-word *review*, try reading a whole 768-page *book* like this!	2003-07-07
US	50788382	R2TKJKFZ2B69VS	0060529709	420660459	Everything Is Illuminated: A Novel	Books	3	0	1	N	N	"Illuminated" has its shining moments	\\"Everything Is Illuminated\\" is the wildly acclaimed story of a college student's journey to Ukraine to find the woman who saved his grandfather from the Nazis during World War II.   Jonathan Safran Foer (the fictional character - not the author, though the author made a similar trip while in college) was guided in his quest by a young Ukranian, Alex, who introduces himself to the reader at the start of the book.  This had better get good soon, I thought, because this character's broken English reminds me of those Saturday Night Live skits featuring the \\"wild and crazy guys.\\" It did get good, with an emotionally engaging story hiding amidst a lot of postmodern gimmickry. <br />The story alternates between Jonathan's account of the trip, Alex's account of the trip (and his comments on Jonathan's account), and Jonathan's narration of a fairy-tale-like history of his ancestral village, Trachimbrod.  I agree with some of the other reviewers that parts of this book are worth a second reading, but I can't imagine slogging through the Trachimbrod story again.  Its \\"magical realism\\" ranges from the amusing to the inexplicable (a young boy's crippled arm as a fetish object for a whole village of women?  YUCK!) and ultimately serves only to provide ironic distance from the emotional core of the book.  I read with a mixture of excitement and dread as the narratives converged toward the terrible events of the war, and as the interconnection between the characters' families grew more apparent.  The ending was more \\"huh?\\" than \\"aha!\\" but the book was worth reading despite its flaws.	2003-07-07
US	50788382	R18JC8TMIRYB1R	0312315228	643981404	Atkins for Life: The Complete Controlled Carb Program for Permanent Weight Loss and Good Health	Books	4	25	26	N	N	Atkins for Life	My husband follows the Atkins diet; I'm the one who does most of the food shopping and cooking for the whole family.  We both find \\"Atkins for Life,\\" which focuses on maintaining the weight loss you have achieved through a low-carbohydrate diet, to be a big help.  It reviews all the phases of the Atkins diet, but if you are just starting out you are better off with \\"Dr. Atkins' New Diet Revolution.\\"   This book gives detailed instructions for transitioning from the rather extreme meat-and-cheese-based diet to a more balanced plan that includes higher carb vegetables, fruits, whole grains, and legumes.  Whether you want to count carbs, learn about the science behind the diet, use lists of foods to eat \\"regularly,\\" \\"in moderation,\\" and \\"sparingly,\\" or follow sample menus, this book has it all.  Also included are tips for restaurant eating and substitutions for home cooking, as well as many recipes.  The role of exercise is emphasized too.  I'm not wild about the recipes (sugar substitute, yuck!) but the food lists provide guidance for preparing Atkins-friendly, well-balanced meals for the whole family.  Like some of the other reviewers, I found the constant \\"selling\\" of the Atkins plan and products to be a turn-off, but my husband liked reading the success stories and uses the products so I guess there really is something here for everyone.	2003-06-02
US	50788382	R3B7LPQG306VV3	0385504268	354796806	The Last Detective (Elvis Cole Series)	Books	2	1	8	N	N	Great if you like really predictable mystery/thrillers	The latest installment in author Robert Crais' series featuring private detective Elvis Cole has it all: likeable good guys coping with current crises and echoes of the past, really mean bad guys, fast-moving narration, snappy dialogue, and real detective work.  Unfortunately, it was obvious very early on \\"whodunit\\" with only the most token efforts at misdirection - too bad, because I really wanted to like this book.	2003-06-02
US	50788382	R3F1NWMAFYU1DI	087441685X	366026154	Family Haggadah: A Seder for All Generations (English, Hebrew and Hebrew Edition)	Books	5	48	49	N	N	Great for families with preschool and school-age children	This was our third year using this Haggadah with our children, now 7 and 9 years old, and we will probably use it for at least a few more years.  The \\"Family Haggadah\\" includes a complete service (i.e., no steps are skipped) with brief, clear English narration and key blessings and verses in Hebrew or Aramaic.  The service is traditional with some contemporary additions - the Matzah of Hope; a poem written by a boy imprisoned in a concentration camp; Miriam's Cup; and one of our favorites, the Frog Song.  The authors estimate that the service will take 45 minutes before dinner and 15 minutes after; we found it took closer to 55 minutes before dinner.  The book is beautifully illustrated and includes discussion topics in boxes alongside the main text ranging from \\"what is your favorite part of the service\\" to a more sophisticated consideration of what it means to be enslaved versus free.  Because the text is streamlined and simplified, rather than dumbed-down, this is also an ideal Haggadah for first-time seder hosts and seder novices of any age.  To keep the service brief, very few traditional Hebrew songs are included.  If you like to sing, you will need to supplement the \\"Family Haggadah\\" with a more traditional book, such as the Maxwell House version available in supermarkets.	2003-05-04
US	50788382	R2B1YSKIN58YX7	1886411263	555243179	Uncle Eli's Passover Haggadah	Books	2	7	9	N	N	Cute, mildly clever Seussical take on the Haggadah	\\"Uncle Eli\\" presents the Haggadah as Dr. Seuss-like verse.  As the range of opinions in the reviews indicates, some people love it, some don't.  We tried using it as a supplement to our regular Haggadah when our kids were Dr. Seuss-loving preschoolers, but found that most of the verses were very long and not clever enough to be worth the extra time it took to read them.  Very short excerpts would probably liven up a seder for kids who are already familiar with the traditional service.  Many of the verses are available on the web (a search for \\"Uncle Eli's Haggadah\\" should take you there) - check it out for yourself before buying.	2003-05-04
US	50788382	R2XZZX29IIHKW8	0670883417	423094128	The Family Haggadah	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Lots of good ideas for involving children, but...	We used this Haggadah for a few years when our children were preschool-age, with mixed success. I liked the extensive suggestions for involving young children in all aspects of the seder experience. However, we found that the English narration - while lovely - was overly long and didn't hold the kids' attention, especially in the absence of attractive illustrations. It would probably be more suitable for older children. The book reads from left to right and is almost entirely in English, which may be a benefit or a weakness depending on your own personal preference. We ended up supplementing quite a bit from the good ol' Maxwell House version and eventually switched to a somewhat more traditional family-oriented Haggadah.	2003-05-04
US	50788382	R9DBUTTWXHLH3	0451206460	512605694	Hard Evidence (Dismas Hardy, Book 3)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Another enjoyable entry in the Dismas Hardy series	Ive been reading Lescroarts series featuring attorney Dismas Hardy all out of order; fortunately, Hard Evidence stands up well on its own.  The author provides a brief update regarding what must be several novels worth of tumultuous events in the lives of Hardy and his wife while quickly moving on to the mystery at the core of the novel.  Hardy has rejoined the San Francisco DAs office and, while toiling away at the sort of low-level crimes addressed by junior staff, finds himself investigating the murder of a wealthy and prominent businessman.  With the help of his buddy, prickly police detective Abe Glitzky, Hardy searches for the murderer while striving to maintain the stability of his marriage and resolve his own doubts about his chosen career.  Its not too hard to figure out who was the murderer, and the plot twist that puts Hardy on the side of the defense is so heavily foreshadowed (and practically given away altogether on the back cover of the book) that I spent the whole first half of the book wondering when it would finally arrive.  However, Hard Evidence strikes a good balance between plot-driven and character-driven elements  the recurring characters are central to the story and are given plenty to do even as readers get to visit with old friends.	2003-03-22
US	50788382	R1JKLUJ9TRIHFC	1557986983	720715707	Reading and Understanding More Multivariate Statistics	Books	5	37	37	N	N	I read more - and I understood more!	Like its predecessor, &quot;Reading and Understanding MORE Multivariate Statistics&quot; achieves exactly what its title implies. Geared toward non-statisticians in behavioral and social science fields, this book provides clear and reasonably simple explanations of common multivariate analyses. This book includes special attention to scales of measurement, reliability and generalizability theory, item response theory, and assessing the validity of measurement.  In addition, it covers cluster analysis, Q-technique factor analysis, structural equation modeling, canonical correlation analysis, repeated measures analysis, and survival analysis.  The authors present the conceptual underpinnings, underlying assumptions, and basic procedures for each analysis with a minimum of equations and many concrete examples. The book not teach you how to perform the analyses but does provide references for those who wish to get more detailed information. As a research scientist who doesn't always remember everything I learned in graduate statistics class, I find this book an invaluable aid keeping up with the current literature in my field and in making the most of statistical consultations. This book is ideal for anyone whose job requires them to be a &quot;consumer&quot; of research; for researchers who wish to further their understanding of data analysis; and as a companion text for graduate statistics classes.	2003-03-21
US	50788382	R20JB3LDIVR4IS	0374281602	721325086	Reversible Errors: A Novel	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Satisfying relationship-driven courtroom drama	\\"Reversible Errors\\" centers on a death-row inmate's last-chance appeal of his murder conviction.  However, the courtroom drama merely provides the setting for the main characters who were involved in the initial trial a decade earlier to revisit their relationships and develop new ones.  The task of defending the confessed killer falls to the rather unlikable, yet eager-to-please Arthur Raven, who seeks the assistance of the Gillian Sullivan, the judge who convicted his client ten years earlier but has faced problems of her own in the ensuing years.  Arguing for the state are the ambitious prosecutor Muriel Wynn, and her on-again, off-again lover, detective Larry Starczek.  As the author moves between past and present it becomes clear that the \\"errors\\" of the title are not those of law but of the lives of the damaged people involved in the case, all seeking some sort of redemption.  The book isn't perfect; some of the developments are overly predictable, while other story threads are left hanging.  However, it effectively presents the chilling theme is that the law is only secondary to the private motives of randomly chosen protagonists - even as a man's life hangs in the balance.	2003-03-20
US	50788382	RBH4BUXIYZTC1	0451180429	333139516	The Quiet Game (Penn Cage)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Well-written and exciting, but...	Recently widowed prosecutor-turned-novelist Penn Gage returns to his hometown of Natchez, MI seeking peace for himself and his young daughter.  However, he finds his parents troubled by the aftermath of events from years ago, and becomes embroiled in the mystery of a 30-year-old racial murder and the subsequent cover-up.  The web of secrecy includes episodes from his own past and extends into local power politics and even the upper echelons of the FBI.  There is lots of action to keep you turning the pages, and as the political and legal maneuverings unfold, so do the characters innermost secrets.  However, the characterizations are clichéd, the plot fizzles out at the end, and I found it hard to feel much sympathy for a bereaved main character who places his daughters life in danger to resolve unfinished business with his high school sweetheart.	2003-02-25
US	50788382	R1DNGNT899H6O9	0451206525	486821945	Dead Sleep	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Gripping page-turner marred by a ludicrous ending	Photojournalist Jordan Glass is trying to recover from having witnessed too much horror when she visits a gallery featuring a series of paintings of women who may be asleep - or dead.  One of the paintings is of her missing twin sister, and when Jordan contacts the FBI she learns that the paintings appear to be linked to a number of kidnappings over the prior 2 years.  She becomes involved in the investigation, battling not only the kidnapper but also her own inner demons.  Author Greg Iles keeps the suspense tight as the case, and the multifaceted characters, unfold.  You'll have to suspend your disbelief quite a bit (Is Jordan for real?  Would the FBI really let her become so involved in their case?  Does anyone really talk that much during sex?) but it is worth it almost until the end.  My advice: read the first 24 chapters, then put the book down, and make up the most trite, ridiculous ending you can imagine.  It won't be as bad as what the author is about to inflict upon you.	2003-02-19
US	50788382	R2HVAH2NX9HQCN	0525946829	616631756	Quentins	Books	2	6	8	N	N	Even if you are a Binchy fan, this is one to skip	I've been a Maeve Binchy fan for years and was really looking forward to revisiting some old friends in her latest book.  Unfortunately, \\"Quentins\\" does not measure up to Binchy's previous work.  We meet our heroine Ella, raised by doting parents, and follow her as she strikes out on her own and into the arms of a married man, who - big surprise only to Ella - turns out to be a con artist.  Meanwhile, Ella and her friends are making a documentary film about Dublin restaurant Quentins and the people who eat there.  The main characters are poorly developed and the more engaging minor characters aren't given enough to do.  Apparently Binchy couldn't decide whether to write a collection of short stories or a novel and instead has published an incoherent mixture of both.  \\"Quentins\\" careens between syrupy vignettes of Irish life and a clumsy thriller subplot, all not-quite held together by the documentary theme.  A real disappointment.	2003-02-16
US	50788382	RWXZBTOH6VGJ4	0761537171	224107799	Walt Disney World with Kids, 2003: Including Disney Cruise Line and Universal Orlando's CityWalk and Islands of Adventure (Travel with Kids)	Books	4	14	14	N	N	An excellent supplemental resource for families with kids	I have mixed feelings reviewing this guidebook.  I found its recommendations - particularly the \\"scare factor\\" ratings and \\"don't miss\\" lists of rides and attractions, and the restaurant reviews - to be better than those of the other book I used to plan my recent Disney World vacation.  However, the overall presentation of information is not well-organized enough to be helpful to visitors unfamiliar with Disney World, and vacation-planning information is not nearly as comprehensive as that of other guides.  The guidebook is written in a cheery conversational tone that makes for easy reading but is not well-suited for quick reference use.  \\"Helpful hints\\" and \\"insider's tips\\" are presented in marginal text boxes: the information is helpful but hard to refer back to quickly.  Touring tips and suggestions for developing a touring plan may be useful to those who are already somewhat familiar with Disney World but didn't help me (a Disney novice) at all; furthermore, most of the suggestions are not applicable to off-season travelers.  Finally, the guide includes detailed reviews of on-site hotels but no reviews of off-site hotels.  If you are a return visitor to Disney World looking for some updated help in planning your stay, this may be the only guide you need.  If you have never been to Disney World, or if you are considering staying off-site, this book is worth buying but don't expect it to have all the information you need.	2003-02-10
US	50788382	R3BXL05YLF8928	0764566040	908854107	The Unofficial Guide to Walt Disney World 2003 (Unofficial Guides)	Books	5	157	160	N	N	This comprehensive guide helped me save hundreds of dollars!	For some families a trip to Walt Disney World is an annual ritual, for others it is a one-time rite of passage.  For all who go, it is a big-ticket vacation destination with seemingly limitless choices of lodging, attractions, dining, and entertainment.  This encyclopedic guide provides you with all the information you need to make the most of your time and money.  Their recommendations are based on their own staff's experience as well as surveys of Disney vacationers and Unofficial Guide readers.<br />I wish I could give more than five stars to the vacation planning chapters of the book.  Monthly attendance data plus subjective pros and cons of visiting during each season helped us decide when to go; detailed reviews of hotels within and outside the \\"World\\" helped us decide where to stay; an outline of all the available ticketing options helped us determine what sort of park admission to buy.  All in all we saved hundreds of dollars - and planned a more suitable vacation for our family - as compared to following the advice of friends and co-workers.<br />The chapters pertaining to each park rate four to five stars.  Each ride, show, or attraction is described in detail and given a star rating for each of several age groups.  Careful attention is paid to factors affecting how long you will wait in line.  The author provides touring plans designed to get you to as many of the \\"best\\" attractions as possible with the least amount of waiting in line; 1-day and 2-day touring plans for families with and without young children are provided for the Magic Kingdom.  Occasionally the reviews are a bit idiosyncratic but on the whole they let you know what not to miss - and what to pass up with no regrets.  The guide also includes chapters on Universal Orlando and Sea World.<br />The chapters reviewing Disney dining deserve four stars.  Again, the coverage is vast and detailed, with reviews not only of restaurants in and out of the \\"World\\" but even of counter-service (i.e., fast food) within the \\"World.\\"  You will either shake your head and roll your eyes at the hints for landing a breakfast reservation at Cinderella's Royal Table, or you will rush to synchronize your clocks with Disney reservation center time and start warming up your dialing fingers.  I agree with other reviewers that the restaurant reviews are overly harsh and discount the extent to which a sit-down meal in some Disney restaurants can be an attraction unto itself.  There is also no index to table-service restaurants in each park.<br />This guide contains far more information than any one traveler is going to need, and at least some of it will seem like common sense - but one person's common sense is another's startling revelation.  As with any guidebook some information will be out of date; some specific issues noted by prior reviewers have been corrected in the 2003 edition.  If you are a true believer in Disney magic you might not like the blunt tone of the author's remarks.  However, if you are a Disney skeptic, a novice, or simply a vacationer trying to get the most out of a big-deal vacation, the Unofficial Guide is an excellent resource.t food) within the \\"World.\\"  You will either shake your head and roll your eyes at the hints for landing a breakfast reservation at Cinderella's Royal Table, or you will rush to synchronize your clocks with Disney reservation center time and start warming up your dialing fingers.  I agree with other reviewers that the restaurant reviews are overly harsh and discount the extent to which a sit-down meal in some Disney restaurants can be an attraction unto itself.  There is also no index to table-service restaurants in each park.<br />This guide contains far more information than any one traveler is going to need, and at least some of it will seem like common sense - but one person's common sense is another's startling revelation.  As with any guidebook some information will be out of date; some specific issues noted by prior reviewers have been corrected in the 2003 edition.  If you are a true believer in Disney magic you might not like the blunt tone of the author's remarks.  However, if you are a Disney skeptic, a novice, or simply a vacationer trying to get the most out of a big-deal vacation, the Unofficial Guide is an excellent resource.	2003-02-10
US	50788382	R32W0QJ0PFC3R7	0028603672	188353901	Betty Crocker's Bread Machine Cookbook (Betty Crocker Home Library)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Simple, useful cookbook for easy homemade bread	Using a bread machine is inherently simple, and this cookbook doesn't complicate matters.  A  brief introduction includes a glossary of ingredients, helpful hints, and troubleshooting tips.  Two main sections - \\"Classic and Savory Loaves\\" and \\"Special Grains and Sweet Loaves\\" - include dozens of recipes, all with instructions for 1-pound and 1  pound loaves.  A third section includes recipes that use the bread machine to knead the dough, which is then further processed by hand and baked conventionally.  A final chapter includes interesting toppings.  Every recipe I have tried has worked well.  The use of dry milk in recipes requiring milk allows most recipes to be made with the bread machine on a timer.  The book is illustrated with attractive photographs.	2003-02-10
US	50788382	R1MX693AHS06GE	0060936649	302174200	Wittgenstein's Poker: The Story of a Ten-Minute Argument Between Two Great Philosophers	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Surprisingly interesting philosophical biography	I say \\"surprisingly interesting\\" because having only a limited exposure to the study of philosophy (that introductory undergraduate class was a long time ago!) I was unfamiliar with the event at the heart of this book: the single meeting between Karl Popper and Ludwig Wittgenstein, at which Cambridge faculty member Wittgenstein may have brandished a hot poker at guest speaker Popper.  The authors begin with a recounting of what is known about their 1946 meeting, and it is not immediately obvious to the uninitiated why a 10-minute argument regarding whether there are philosophical \\"problems\\" or merely \\"puzzles\\" warrants an entire book.  The authors then detail the competing accounts of the meeting before turning to biographies of the main players, placing their dispute in context of world events and their individual personalities.  We meet the aristocratic, charismatic Wittgenstein, driven in his perfectionism; we see Popper striving to overcome economic hardship and to gain acceptance to the inner circle of academia; we see both in Austrian society which turned from nurturing to potentially deadly (descended from Jews, both fled Austrian anti-Semitism during World War II).  Along the way we learn only a bit about their core philosophical differences, which may be just as well; a more thorough treatment would probably be incomprehensible to the average reader yet still inadequate to the reader with a strong background in philosophy.  I'm pretty sure I got the gist of what the authors presented, and it's the nature of the men in question, not their ideas, that makes this book so compelling.  By the time I was  of the way through, I found myself turning the pages as fast as I could, eager to get back to the confrontation even though I knew what was coming - and that the specific nature of the event would remain an enigma.	2002-12-10
US	50788382	RAGHBB4M68VT2	0451179897	861505057	House of Smoke	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Good reading for beach or bathtub	\\"House of Smoke\\" begins with an explosive prologue revealing only some of what haunts Kate Blanchard, ex-cop turned private detective.  As she investigates the death of Frank Baucomb, foreman of the Sparks family ranch and lover of young Laura Sparks, Kate delves into the personal and financial dealings of Santa Barbara's wealthiest family, to the dismay of Laura's larger-than-life mother, Miranda.  The sprawling mystery encompasses marijuana dealing and oil drilling, but the real story is how Kate works to overcome her inner demons while fighting very real threats to her life.  <br />Kate's character flaws range from the serious (she has lost custody of her children) to the silly (she shares with other Freedman characters a tendency to get drunk and go skinny-dipping when common sense suggests remaining sober and clothed), and the action is more melodrama than realism.  Featuring a wealthy family's scheming and infighting and tough female protagonists who aren't shy about using their bodies to get what they want, \\"House of Smoke\\" has much in common with a Judith Krantz (\\"Scruples\\") novel or a season of \\"Dynasty.\\"  The sex scenes are also more explicit than usual for a detective novel.  At nearly 500 pages, \\"House of Smoke\\" is written on an epic scale, with characters slowly revealed through lengthy, detailed vignettes and even lengthier speeches.  However, the material doesn't really carry the weight of an epic family drama; you can often skip a few pages and not miss anything (except maybe some explicit sex).  \\"House of Smoke\\" isn't great literature, but it's an absorbing, not-too-demanding book perfect for beach, airplane, or tub.	2002-12-03
US	50788382	R1LL1G4XA4G8YW	0425182150	239822085	Perish Twice (Sunny Randall)	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Too much padding, too little story	My guinea pig is looking reproachfully as I write this, but I'm going to post it anyway.  If you like movies in which scenes are frequently followed by shots of the family pet's reaction (e.g., covering eyes with paws when mom and dad kiss) then you will love the way in which nearly every page of this book includes a reference to narrator Sunny Randall's dog, Rosie.  Ex-cop private detective Sunny feeds Rosie, walks Rosie, notes who Rosie does and doesn't like, and often takes Rosie along when meeting people for drinks (which she does a lot of).  Rosie does, however, stay with a friend while Sunny sleeps with her ex-husband - apparently they get along better since divorcing.  Well, I don't like pet-intensive movies, and I tired quickly of Rosie too.  The constant presence of the dog would be less annoying if it didn't feel like padding on a very minimal story - Sunny apparently isn't too busy and finds time in between feeding the dog to follow a case from which she has been fired.  It's too bad, because Sunny is an appealing character - tough but not hard-boiled, feminine but not girly - and Parker's writing makes for a fast, enjoyable read.  I was expecting to like this book more than I did, having read and liked &quot;Shrink Rap,&quot; the next book in the series.  I hope this means the Sunny Randall series will keep improving with each installment.	2002-11-13
US	50788382	R2XT9HOZAV5YU	1557982732	672443512	Reading & Understanding Multivariate Statistics	Books	5	48	51	N	N	I read it - and I understood it!	&quot;Reading and Understanding Multivariate Statistics&quot; achieves exactly what its title implies.  Geared toward non-statisticians in behavioral and social science fields, this book provides clear and reasonably simple explanations of some of the most common multivariate analyses.  Each chapter focuses on a different analysis and presents its conceptual underpinnings, underlying assumptions, and basic procedures with a minimum of equations and many concrete examples.  It does not teach you how to perform the analyses but does provide references for those who wish to get more detailed information.  As a research scientist who doesn't always remember everything I learned in graduate statistics class, I find this book an invaluable aid keeping up with the current literature in my field and in making the most of statistical consultations.  This book is ideal for anyone whose job requires them to be a &quot;consumer&quot; of research; for researchers who wish to further their understanding of data analysis; and as a companion text for graduate statistics classes.	2002-10-31
US	50788382	R2EL5HFJZZESQG	0060192216	942609833	Vegetables Every Day: The Definitive Guide to Buying and Cooking Today's Produce With More Than 350 Recipes	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Use this cookbook every day!	You know you should eat your vegetables every day, but you've run out of ideas for how to cook them?  Jack Bishop to the rescue with &quot;Vegetables Every Day.&quot;  This cookbook includes over 60 chapters, each devoted to a different vegetable -  ranging from the &quot;ordinary&quot; carrots, broccoli, and squash to the &quot;exotic&quot; calabaza, malanga, and taro.  Within each chapter there is a brief introduction including helpful information on availability, selection, storage, basic preparation, and best general cooking methods.  The introduction is followed by several diverse recipes, representing a variety of flavors and cooking techniques.  The vast majority of the recipes are for side dishes (and most of the others are soups or appetizers), making this book ideal for meat-and-potatos cooks looking for more variety in their veggie choices.  There are very few vegetarian main courses.  Most of the recipes are simple to make and use readily-available ingredients, making this a cookbook you can really use every day.	2002-10-30
US	50788382	R2UI9L2APT49CH	0743236181	337924601	Blood on the Tongue:  A Crime Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Atmospheric, character-driven mystery	Detectives Ben Cooper and Diane Fry take on a series of seemingly unrelated events - an apparent suicide, a beating, the murder of an unidentified man, a missing infant - in this character-driven mystery.  All the cases keep leading back to frozen, snowy Irontongue Hill, where the wreckage of a Royal Air Force fighter plane that crashed there during World War II still remain.  Meanwhile, the pilot's granddaughter has arrived from Canada seeking to clear her grandfather's name - and Ben finds himself intrigued by the story and by the woman who is so relentless in pursuit of the truth.  Eventually the intertwined nature of the past and present mysteries becomes clear in a surprising ending. <br />The strength of this novel is in its characters: the pensive Ben, adjusting to moving out of his family's home; brusque, businesslike Diane, who seems not to feel at home anywhere; the Poles who fought for England in WWII and their descendants; and the numerous, perfectly sketched supporting characters who provide a sense of real community.  There is apparently some sort of history between Ben and Diane - she is inexplicably annoyed by almost everything he does; he is very ambivalent about revealing himself to her - but its nature is never made clear.  The vividly portrayed wintry landscape almost becomes a character as well.  If you have read Stephen Booth's previous books, you will probably be pleased to spend time in familiar surroundings with old friends.  If not, you will find an introduction to a world worth returning to.	2002-10-29
US	50788382	R3LXS6K5OMYDSM	0399149309	148574901	Shrink Rap	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A fun, lightning-fast read	Private investigator Sunny Randall is hired by best-selling novelist Melanie Joan to protect her from her psychiatrist ex-husband John Melvin, who has been stalking her throughout her book tour.  In her effort to protect herself and her client, Sunny embarks on an investigation of Dr. Melvin and discovers how he has been able to maintain such a psychological hold over Melanie.  In the course of her research, Sunny consults with both Dr. Melvin and another counselor, gaining uncomfortable insights into her own relationship with her ex-husband.  Among the returning characters are tough, smart, cute Sunny; ambivalent, cute ex-husband Richie; and the very cute bull terrier Rosie.  Do you get the idea there is a lot of cute in this book?  There is also a surprising depth of character for such a breezy fast read, lots of action, and snappy dialogue presented in brief chapters that will have you turning the pages as fast as you can and looking forward to the next installment in the series.	2002-10-29
US	50788382	REHLDWLW9TKC9	0446610798	851439685	Right as Rain (Derek Strange/Terry Quinn)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Tough, gritty urban thriller	\\"Right As Rain\\" introduces private investigator Derek Strange, a middle-aged black ex-cop hired to investigate the death of young black cop Chris Wilson at the hands of young white cop Terry Quinn.  The story takes place in the racially divided inner-city neighborhoods of Washington, DC, and the author places racial issues front and center throughout, adding to the tension inherent in encounters among characters existing on the fringes of society.  The Washington streetscape is described in such detail that I feel like I would recognize every city block were I to find myself in Strange's neighborhood.  It's not an idealized capital city but rather one in which vibrant ungentrified neighborhoods give way to filthy ruins dominated by the drug trade.  The story is told in tough, spare prose, and even the good guys are men of action, not introspection.  They place great importance on musical tastes, but otherwise are more likely to express their feelings by hitting someone, taking a drink, or visiting a prostitute.  In the course of the investigation, Strange and Quinn develop a tentative friendship across generational and racial lines, and much of the book involves their negotiating boundaries of trust.  Which leads to my complaint - there is an awful lot of driving around listening to music relative to the amount of plot and character development.  Perhaps future installments, in which Strange and Quinn's relationship will already have been established, will have more real story.	2002-10-29
US	50788382	R2EGAZIIBUUM7F	0375507264	700141431	Number9Dream	Books	2	7	10	N	N	I don't get it!	I must not be hip enough to see what the fuss is all about.  I read David Mitchell's first novel, \\"Ghostwritten,\\" and was impressed with the writing, but felt that the book suffered from the heavy-handed artifice of its structure.  In the case of \\"Number9Dream,\\" the premise seems solid enough - a young man journeys from his rural home to Tokyo to seek the father who abandoned him - and once again, Mitchell's writing is dazzlingly descriptive.  The story soon fragments itself into the \\"real\\" and the \\"imaginary\\" and after a few such episodes I began to wonder at the start of each new section, is this part of the real story or just a dream?  Of course, this being a work of fiction, none of it is \\"real\\" and perhaps that is the author's point.  The narrator finds himself embroiled in what I assume are deliberately cartoonish encounters with organized crime figures, and then things really start to get strange.  By the time the talking chicken encountered God on a surfboard, I started to feel like I was listening in on someone else's in-jokes.  David Mitchell sure can write, but as far as his storytelling abilities, more I cannot say, what more can I say?	2002-10-11
US	50788382	RREGS7YTN0RBV	0967032261	52106371	The Best Way to Save for College: A Complete Guide to 529 Plans, 2002/2003	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Comprehensive and reader-friendly guide to 529 plans	Saving for their children's higher education is a daunting task for most American families.  State-sponsored savings programs referred to as \\"529 plans\\" provide Federal (and often State) tax advantages to many savers, but parents need to evaluate all the options.  Furthermore, a burgeoning array of 529 plans makes the decision of how to save for college more confusing than ever.  Enter author Joseph Hurley, who presents all the key issues in deciding whether and how to choose a 529 account in a straightforward, reasonably easy-to-read style.  He lets you know what questions to ask, and then provides the answers when possible.<br />The first section of the book provides an explanation of 529 plans, including their history and benefits; an overview of how they work and what to look for in a 529 plan; comparison with other means of saving for higher education; and income tax, financial aid, and estate planning issues.  The second section of the book provides a description of each state's plans, using a common format that answers the most basic of his \\"what to look for in a 529 plan\\" checklist.  Contacts to get further information from each state are also included.<br />Much of this information is available on the author's excellent \\"saving for college\\" web site.  This book will be most helpful to you if you want to learn a lot about 529 plans without scrolling through screen after screen of information (i.e., if you'd rather curl up with a book than stare at a screen).  For looking up specific bits of information, the web site may be all you need.	2002-10-10
US	50788382	RXFFRZUT1N4OO	0060198508	796622398	Extra Virgin: A Young Woman Discovers the Italian Riviera, Where Every Month Is Enchanted	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Extra special	Seeking a change of scenery, author Annie Hawes and her sister travel from London to rural Liguria, Italy, for a temporary job grafting roses.  What the author lacks in knowledge of roses she more than makes up for with storytelling skills as she describes how she and her sister began their 20-year relationship with Liguria and its inhabitants.  She conveys the mutual bemusement between the tradition-bound villagers and the naive British interlopers, and shows how she learned the hard way to respect their traditions while earning a measure of acceptance herself.  Hawes' keen observations, wry sense of humor, and distinctive turn of phrase place this book a cut above the usual travel memoir.	2002-09-30
US	50788382	R168JUAUNGI21M	0312198604	416869246	A Drizzle of Honey : The Lives and Recipes of Spain's Secret Jews	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Highly readable history and cookbook that  really works	In a book that is equal parts history and cookbook, authors Gitlitz and Davidson explore the world of the Crypto-Jews or Conversos - Jews who converted to Christianity during the Spanish Inquisition but who continued to practice their religion in secret.  Inquisitors were tireless in their efforts to uncover these clandestine Jews, and one of their means was to identify characteristically Jewish traditions in food preparation and eating.  Their records provide part of the basis for this fascinating look at how the sweep of world history intersected with the mundane details of ordinary lives.  The introduction includes a discussion of characteristic ingredients and techniques, and each recipe is accompanied by the story of the person who was implicated by the simple act of preparing a meal.  Most of the recipes are too exotic for my family's taste, but the ones I tried worked well.  If you like to encounter history through taste and smell and the experience of re-creating your ancestors' dinners - or just want to imagine what those meals were like - then you will relish this book.	2002-09-20
US	50788382	RZ6Y8BS46YCNA	0684865793	881390122	Seeing in the Dark : How Backyard Stargazers Are Probing Deep Space and Guarding Earth from Interplanetary Peril	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Interesting, well-written, and passionate	Since the earliest days of humankind people have looked to the night sky in awe and struggled to unlock its secrets.  In \\"Seeing in the Dark,\\" author Timothy Ferris details the many contributions amateur astronomers have made to our understanding of the universe.  He leads the reader on a tour of the sky, from the Moon, Sun, and nearby planets, through the outer reaches of our solar system to the Milky Way galaxy and beyond, indicating the many discoveries and ongoing investigations by amateurs.  But the real strength of the book is its many interviews with amateur astronomers, in which the author paints portraits of diverse individuals all sharing a passion for observation and discovery.  The author clearly knows his science (and provides detailed endnotes for those who want to learn more), and as an amateur astronomer himself he knows the community about which he writes.  His lyrical descriptions of what it's like to gaze upon distant worlds convey the passion \\"backyard stargazers\\" feel toward their avocation.  My one quibble is that I would have liked to see diagrams of the different kinds of telescopes he discusses.	2002-09-20
US	50788382	R3FBGOES9Q04O7	1569472424	377475451	Death of a Red Heroine (An Inspector Chen Investigation)	Books	3	10	13	N	N	Intriguing but talky glimpse into another culture	\\"Death of a Red Heroine\\" is a police procedural with a twist - the victim is a Chinese \\"national role model worker\\" and Shanghai police Chief Inspector Chen Cao must conduct his investigation under the scrutiny of Party officials concerned more with political correctness than justice.  Chen, a poet whose promotion beyond more experienced peers in the police department was politically motivated, is an unlikely but engaging hero.  His story unfolds at a leisurely pace, as the author provides a fascinating look at a nation in transition as revealed in the daily lives of the people of Shanghai in the early 1990's.  Chen muses poetically on the changes he observes in society, struggles with his literary and career aspirations, and finds unsettling parallels between the victim's life and his own.  Several of the supporting characters are well-rounded and provide an alternate take on the same events.  Unfortunately, the author frequently forgets to \\"show, not tell.\\"  Too often he explains, rather than illustrates, the web of family and political relationships that underlie his characters' actions; too often, he follows evocative verses with dry interpretations rather than trust readers to make the connections on their own.  And too many of the supporting characters are thin caricatures.  \\"Death of a Red Heroine\\" is a promising debut, well worth reading for its lyrical descriptions of the details of daily life in a society about which most Americans know little.	2002-09-11
US	50788382	R11EAOE0J7V9JW	0375724508	79158641	Ghostwritten	Books	3	11	13	N	N	Much ado about nothing	\\"Ghostwritten\\" isn't a novel in the usual sense; it is up to the reader to discern a narrative in the 9 chapters (plus a coda), each written from the perspective of a different character in locations spanning the globe.  The first few chapters surprise and delight as the author reveals the diverse, yet interconnected worlds of his characters.  By midway through the book, encountering a new protagonist, setting, and authorial \\"voice\\" every 50 pages or so became tiresome - especially because most of the stories aren't really good enough to stand on their own.  As familiar details recurred, I struggled to remember where they had been seen before, trying to discern meaning in the threads connecting the tales.  <br />I shouldn't have worked so hard.  We are introduced early on to \\"His Serendipity;\\" the ghostwriter in another story plays in a band called \\"The Music of Chance;\\" later on, a physicist muses about quantum theory and unpredictability.  The themes of chance, fate, and interconnectedness are presented in an increasingly heavy-handed manner as the book devolves into poorly executed genre fiction.  The climax is mired in bizarrely slapstick science-fiction cliché -  all the more unfortunate since world events have overtaken the author's vision.  Some readers will find the New York-based story to be more upsetting than the author apparently intended, given the satiric tone of the chapter.<br />The writing itself was good throughout and nearly all the stories had their own beautifully observed moments.  However, the whole enterprise collapses under its own weight and ends up reading more like a college writing assignment than a completed work.  Still, I would look forward to reading a more conventional (or better-edited) book by the same author.	2002-09-04
US	50788382	R7252P6SK0DKA	0060915900	766248728	The Complete American-Jewish Cookbook	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Some dated recipes, but a great reference book	\\"The Complete American Jewish Cookbook\\" includes a mix of traditional Ashkenazic dishes and mid-20th-century American comfort food.  There are many cookbooks that will provide updated versions of traditional foods and kosher versions of contemporary favorites.  But how many of them also serve as good, basic references, covering everything from applesauce (multiple versions) to zucchini?  My personal favorites include banana bread and baked macaroni and cheese.  The Passover section is invaluable, and the chicken soup is sheer perfection!	2002-09-04
US	50788382	R2KEXCU3HRMZ6N	1573229326	319964836	How to Be Good	Books	3	6	14	N	N	Flawed but well worth reading	What is a good life?  That is the question posed, but not answered, in this book.  The story opens with Katie Carr - burnt out by her efforts to be a \\"good\\" doctor, mother, and wife - on the verge of divorce from her perpetually angry husband, David.  But then David undergoes a spiritual transformation and begins to challenge everything Katie ever knew about how to be good.  His newfound righteousness provides a bizarre and hilarious backdrop for Katie's own spiritual journey.<br />Hornby's powers of observation and satiric wit are sharp as ever, but if you're expecting a light romantic comedy, you won't find it here.  Rather, Hornby paints a portrait of a marriage poisoned by years of discord.  Your enjoyment of this book will probably hinge on whether you find the character of Katie Carr to be sympathetic and believable.  I found her efforts to maintain her moral compass while trying to regain a passion and sense of self lost in the demands of her daily life to be shockingly true.  However, Katie's humorous musings eventually overwhelm the thin, rather confusing plot.  The resolution of the story is not especially satisfying, and the contrived final image provides an equal measure of hope and despair.	2002-08-14
US	50788382	R25K6RD1ROOM8I	0452283027	129980014	Farm Fatale: A Comedy of Country Manors	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Slow starting but enjoyable romantic comedy	This story of 2 couples - who couldn't be more different - finding their lives entangled when they leave London for the countryside promises to be frothy, fluffy fun.  Unfortunately, the opening chapters that introduce us to struggling illustrator Rosie, her newspaper columnist boyfriend Mark, self-styled actress Samantha, and her wealthy executive husband Guy, are overly long and tiresome.  Eventually, both couples end up in the same village.  Among the colorful characters are a brooding, handsome dairy farmer and a reclusive rock star.  Once Rosie meets them the boy-meets-girl fun begins, and though it never quite reaches its silliness potential, it's fluffy enough for a quick summer read.	2002-08-14
US	50788382	RWPL11NJMCLRS	0449002128	330117464	The Kill Artist	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Timely and entertaining, but nothing new from author Silva	In a story as current as today's headlines, author Daniel Silva introduces us to Gabriel Allon, an Israeli agent coaxed out of retirement with the assignment to kill Palestinian terrorist Tariq Al-Hourani before Tariq can strike again at those engaged in negotiating for peace in the Middle East.  Tariq is responsible for the murder of Gabriel's wife years earlier, giving him a personal stake in his mission, but also leaving him ambivalent about participating in a seemingly endless cycle of violence.<br />THE KILL ARTIST features a devious spymaster, a mysterious stranger in a seaside village, a beautiful woman with questionable motives, a cat-and-mouse game in which it is never quite clear who is the hunter and who is the hunted, and just enough Le-Carre-esque consideration of the psychological toll of a life of espionage.  Where have we read this before?  In Silva's previous novels, \\"The Unlikely Spy\\" and \\"The Marching Season,\\" giving the reader a sense of déjà vu.  All of Silva's typical plot and character elements come together nicely, making for an entertaining, exciting, and easy-to-follow (as spy novels go) read.  Now, Mr. Silva, how about something new?	2002-06-25
US	50788382	R1CF3FPOKT8L1Y	0440237262	515648474	The Program	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Get with the program	Although this is the ninth in a series featuring psychologist Alan Gregory, in this book Alan plays a minor role.  The central character is Kirsten Lord, a former prosecuting attorney whose life was threatened by a drug dealer she convicted.  The murder of Kirsten's husband and threats to her daughter lead Kirsten to seek refuge in the Witness Security Program, which refers her to Alan's care to help her make the transition to her new life.  Kirsten still fears that the jailed drug lord will find her, and isn't sure who she can trust given her past outspoken criticism of the WITSEC Program.  It turns out her fears are well-founded and only the tip of the iceberg.  The plot generally follows her efforts to determine who is after her and to elude her would-be captors, leading to an exciting conclusion.<br />I wanted to like this book more than I did.  It seemed to me that the author missed opportunities to develop some interesting themes apparently inspired by his work as a clinical psychologist.  For example, Kirsten describes her memories as whales surfacing from deep under water.  This is an interesting metaphor, but rather than showing us the impact of these unexpected memories on Kirsten, the author simply has her classify them as \\"beluga\\" or \\"killer whale.\\"   This suggests a certain immaturity on Kirsten's part, or can it be that the author just isn't that good at portraying his characters' inner lives?  In her sessions with Alan, Kirsten becomes increasingly aware of her tendency to play the role of a damsel-in-distress.  The attention to the protagonist's psychological makeup led me to believe that the resolution to the story would hinge on her becoming more mature and independent; however, the author provides Kirsten with a knight in shining armor in the form of Carl Luppo, former mobster and current WITSEC star.  An epilogue suggests that Kirsten experiences some growth but it seems to be the result of the successful conclusion of her adventure rather than integral to the story.  The author's choices in how to develop - or not develop - the psychological themes he raises keep the book a light, pleasant read rather than something more substantial.	2002-05-28
US	50788382	R1I8PXGDC8SYYZ	0767903382	11518396	Tender at the Bone: Growing Up at the Table	Books	4	30	33	N	N	A lovely souffle of a book	Light, yet rich and tasty.  Restaurant critic Ruth Reichl's memoir is all of these.  Easy to read, yet filled with insight and well-rounded characters.  The author's mother suffered from manic depression, and one way it manifested itself was in bizarre - and often downright poisonous - culinary creations.  The author describes herself as having been shaped by her mother's handicap, beginning at an early age to use food as a way of making sense of the world.  She effectively conveys this food-sense in a series of funny and poignant tales that take us from her childhood in New York up through young adulthood in California.  She lovingly introduces the significant people in her life, revealing them to us in how and what they cooked.  Her stories are punctuated by recipes (I didn't cook any of them, but they look like they should work).  <br />The author is equally effective when she moves away from the table to tell more directly of her relationships with friends and family.  She describes some episodes that could be seen as time-bound clichés - living in a commune, working in a collectively managed restaurant - with a perspective sometimes lacking in baby-boom memoirs.  She brings similar good-humored perspective to her mother's mental illness and her own struggle with anxiety attacks, never wallowing in graphic description of symptoms.  You don't have to be a \\"foodie\\" to enjoy TENDER AT THE BONE, just a lover of warm, tender memoirs.	2002-05-14
US	50788382	R3H641T7NVK1QD	0385495854	323396054	Hostage: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Held hostage by HOSTAGE	Once you start this non-stop thrill ride you won't be able to stop until the final page. Small-town chief of police Jeff Talley is haunted by his past as an LAPD SWAT team negotiator. When a trio of young crooks takes a family hostage as part of a robbery-gone-wrong in his town, Jeff responds, but can't wait for the better-equipped County Sheriff to take over. But then it turns out that the bumbling thieves have taken the wrong family hostage, and suddenly Jeff has a great personal stake in the outcome. That alone could make for a suspenseful page-turner, but the author tightens the screws some more, piling on plot twists that add up to the \\"perfect storm\\" of hostage negotiation. We learn just enough about Jeff to understand the challenge he faces and to care whether he proves himself up to the task. The generally excellent writing allows you to envision every scene unfolding as though on a movie screen - and it would make a great summer movie.	2002-05-05
US	50788382	R3LTV7PQ1MWPJI	0425183769	569781050	Line of Vision	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Couldn't put it down - then wished I had never picked it up	In an interesting twist on the typical legal thriller, \\"Line of Vision\\" is told from the perspective of the defendant.  The first-person narrator, investment banker Marty Kalish, tells us of his affair with Rachel Reinhardt, abused wife of a prominent cardiologist - and how he kills her husband to protect her.  From the start Marty's story raises questions:   Was he really having an affair with Rachel?  Did he really kill her husband?  How far is he willing to go to deal with the aftermath of his crime?  Although Marty isn't very likeable, his story grabs you from the outset and keeps you reading.<br />It looks like I am in the minority here, but I felt cheated by the ending.  Legal thrillers are supposed to have surprises at the end, and there were certainly plenty of hints that there was more going on than met the eye.  And defendants who don't tell the whole story to their lawyers are pretty much standard for the genre.  But a protagonist/narrator who keeps so much from the reader until the very end?  Not fair!	2002-04-30
US	50788382	R5SL45C0F4ULB	0525945768	106793233	The Oath (Dismas Hardy)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A winner from Lescroart!	The head of San Fransisco's largest HMO dies under suspicious circumstances in his own hospital.  The prime suspect has hired attorney Dismas Hardy to represent him - placing Hardy at odds with his good friend, homicide lieutenant Abe Glitzky, and taxing Hardy's marriage as well.  The investigation points to a broader pattern of corruption and murder as Hardy joins forces with the authorities to attempt to clear his client's name.  Sounds familiar, but that's OK - part of the enjoyment of reading mystery/thriller series is the comfort of the familiar and getting caught up-to-date on the latest developments in the characters' lives.  Compared to the previous book in the series (The Hearing), The Oath features a better plot and crisper writing that avoids getting bogged down in the relationships among the many characters.  While not exactly unpredictable, there are a few good twists at the end.	2002-04-26
US	50788382	R3L3KGRHCVU16H	0312282990	383312801	The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Enchanting, captivating, liberating	This thoroughly enjoyable, completely engrossing novel tells the story of 2 cousins - New Yorker Sam Clay and refugee (from Prague, via Japan, in only one of his many \\"amazing adventures\\" ) Josef Kavalier - and how their hopes and dreams play out in the comic books they write and in their real lives in mid-century New York.  The author displays an encyclopedic knowledge of the \\"golden age\\" of superhero comic books, but you don't have to be a comic fan to enjoy this warm, surprisingly intimate story.  As a Jewish person, I was more struck by the use of Jewish (but not religious) characters, references to golems, and the looming Nazi threat in the years leading to and during the Second World War.  The author loves his characters, and brilliantly evokes the physical, historical, and emotional world they inhabit through careful attention to sights, sounds, and smells.  The story falters about  of the way through, but recovers, and reaches a conclusion that is true to the characters and to the themes of magic, captivity, and escape expressed throughout.	2002-04-24
US	50788382	R2ECNE1EMX14V0	0061097306	725935121	Act of Revenge	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Lots of action	\\"Act of Revenge\\" finds Assistant District Attorney Butch Karp, his security specialist wife Marlene Ciampri, and their teenage language prodigy daughter Lucy all tangled in a web of Chinese and Italian organized crime machinations.  Butch and Marlene are involved in different Mafia-related investigations; meanwhile, Lucy - who enjoys more personal freedom than any young adolescent outside of literature intended for that age group - has witnessed a killing in Chinatown and is now a target herself.  Fans of the series will be interested in Lucy's evolving relationship with her parents as she grows older.  I seem to be working my way through this series backwards, so I can't compare this book to previous installments, but I can say that it is primarily action-oriented and lacks the sort of compelling issues that were at the center of &quot;True Justice&quot; (the book that followed in the series).  I was also disappointed at the extent to which the story's resolution is achieved through lucky coincidence rather than investigation.	2002-04-19
US	50788382	R18LR77C2J7XHD	0312261780	33453175	Looking for Alaska	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Beautifully evocative of a land and its people	&quot;Looking for Alaska&quot; is a series of fascinating tales of Peter Jenkins' experiences during an 18-month stay in Alaska.  He is primarily interested in the relationship of Alaskans to the land they inhabit, so most chapters focus on the many diverse people he met along his journey.  The author's straightforward, unadorned writing style effectively allows him to stay out of the way of his subjects - who range from Alaskan Native women to Iditarod racers to homesteaders above the Arctic Circle - as they reveal their stories.  At times his writing was so understated that I began to wonder whether he was stunned into wordlessness by the Alaskan wild, but for the most part appreciated his restraint, especially when he conveyed funny anecdotes. <BR> <BR>Though he keeps the focus on Alaska and its people, the author reveals some of his own personal journey as a middle-aged man still seeking new adventures.  Part of the adventure this time around is that he brought his family with him (apparently a change from his previous travels); however, we learn little about how his wife and young daughter adjust to life in a small town on the edge of the wilderness, and his teenage sons are nearly absent from the story altogether.  We read more about 19-year-old daughter Rebekah, who reminds the author of himself at the same age.<br />&quot;Looking for Alaska&quot; is at its best when Peter Jenkins allows the majesty and wildness of Alaska to reveal itself in the details of people's daily lives - whether traveling by snowmobile to areas without roads, coping with bears in the neighbors' yards, or struggling to maintain traditional &quot;subsistence&quot; living on the land's bounty.  It piqued my curiousity about Alaska and even made me want to consider visitng there myself.	2002-04-15
US	50788382	RDRA3G6RZ2YXO	0374129983	647099960	The Corrections	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Succeeds despite itself	\\"The Corrections\\" introduces us to the Lambert family, who take \\"dysfunctional\\" to new, satiric, levels.  The plot, such as it is, centers on mother Edith's efforts to get her grown children home to the Midwestern town of St. Jude (get it?) for one last Christmas together before her husband Alfred loses control of his body and mind to Parkinson's disease.  But don't expect much by way of linear storytelling - the author focuses on the details of each of the characters' lives in turn, weaving a tapestry of commentary on American family life at the turn of the millennium.  I was initially put off by the author's ironic, hipper-than-thou attitude, and way he seemed to invite us to join him in condescending to his characters.  However, I stuck with it, and found a surprisingly compassionate tale of how the characters became who they are, in the context of both the family system and the wider world, and what happens when they finally stop trying to \\"correct\\" their lives.	2002-04-14
US	50788382	R1N23H4RAQ2IO8	0312195516	226874686	The Red Tent	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Biblical History or Fiction?	First, a warning: this book, though based on Biblical characters, bears almost no resemblance to the Biblical story of Dinah, daughter of the patriarch Jacob.  If you will be upset by depictions of the men of the Bible as foolish, the women as idol-worshipers, and Dinah's rape re-written as a love affair, then you should probably skip this book.  If, however, you are interested in an account of the daily lives of the women of the Bible, told from a woman's perspective, you may find \\"The Red Tent\\" an enjoyable and thought-provoking read.  Dinah tells the story of her four mothers - the wives of Jacob - and continues on to tell of her own coming of age and experiences as a midwife and mother.  The \\"Red Tent\\" of the title is where the Israelite women would rest during their menstrual periods; and indeed, as other reviewers have noted, this can be a very \\"bloody\\" story.  The author depicts Biblical women's lives as being very closely bound up in the giving and maintaining of life, and reminds us how little separated the blood of childbirth from that of death.  I found this to be a life-affirming, woman-affirming tale, but was left wondering to what extent it was based in any historical understanding of women's lives in the ancient Near East.	2002-04-14
US	50788382	RM29F8T0PIVTS	0451204891	405050093	The Hearing (Dismas Hardy)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Good story, great characters	&quot;The Hearing&quot; brings back police lieutenant Abe Glitsky and defense attorney Dismas Hardy as they attempt to find out who killed Elaine Wagner - a prominent lawyer whose secret was that she was Abe's daughter from a relationship ended long ago.  As more facts about the case are uncovered, both Abe and Dismas begin to doubt that Hardy's client, a junkie arrested at the scene of the crime, was the killer.  Glitsky and Hardy are both flawed but good men who maintain a friendship despite their divergent work and personal lives, and they were appealing companions during the couple of days it took to read this generally fast-paced book.<br />This is the first of Lescroart's Dismas Hardy books I have read.  Although it is part of a long-running series, &quot;The Hearing&quot; stands fairly well on its own - though some scenes seem to be included just to allow recurring characters a chance to make an appearance.  If this book is typical of Lescroart, then it is clearly the characters, and not the storylines, that keep readers coming back.  I found it hard to believe that Hardy's legal strategy really would have worked, and the central villain's actions didn't quite add up.  I also found it strange that Elaine's tendency to have problematic relationships with older men is at least partially attributed to the secrecy about her paternity, yet Abe's blossoming relationship with a woman his daughter's age is presented as an unambiguously positive development.  Maybe this will play out further in the next book?  Lescroart has me interested enough to want to read it and find out.	2002-04-01
US	50788382	R3T9ZRGD7NFCT4	0915361663	566725545	The Passover Gourmet	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Worth seeking out	This cookbook contains over 100 kosher-for-Passover recipes from all over the world, so nearly everyone will find some familiar and many unusual recipes.  Most recipes are preceded by notes about their origin, and nearly all are accompanied by beautiful, full-page color photos.  I turn to this book whenever I want to make something out of the ordinary and have generally had excellent success, though there have been occasional duds.  A few recipes include legumes, which are used by Sephardic but not Ashkenazic Jews during Passover; if you follow Ashkenazic tradition, be sure to read the ingredient lists carefully.	2002-03-22
US	50788382	R39GPWCERD75M5	0060936231	429116202	Soul Mountain	Books	2	8	11	N	N	A laborious journey, with no end in sight	Having seen the glowing reviews and the &quot;Nobel Prize&quot; stamp on the book cover, I wasn't necessarily expecting an easy read, but a rewarding one.  About a third of the way through, I am finding this book nearly unreadable.  Much has been made of the different narrative voices used, and indeed the &quot;I&quot; and &quot;You&quot; perspectives invite the reader to experience the author's journey in different ways.  Unfortunately, the author saddles &quot;You&quot; with a very annoying companion in the form of &quot;She,&quot; and has &quot;You&quot; tell her stories that I assume are adaptations of Chinese folk tales, but don't resonate much with this American reader.   I give the book 2 stars instead of 1 because some of the &quot;I&quot; narrator's experiences are fairly interesting if overly repetitive, and because I suspect that some of my difficulty with the book stems from my own unfamiliarity with Chinese culture.	2002-03-22
US	50788382	R3JBYFU40XKYDO	0451197429	934617707	The Disappearance	Books	4	4	4	N	N	An excellent legal thriller	If you enjoy legal thrillers, you will love this book.  This is the third and by far the best book I've read by J. F. Freedman (Key Witness and Above the Law were the other two).  Luke Garrison, a former star district attorney haunted by his past, is persuaded to come out of semi-retirement to take on a seemingly unwinnable case of a TV news anchor accused of kidnapping and murdering his boss's 14-year-old daughter.  The client, the victim, and the victim's family all have secrets somebody will go to any length to keep hidden.  All the &quot;genre&quot; elements are present as Luke takes on his personal demons and unravels the state's case against his client, but the interesting characters, well-thought-out plot, and crisp writing keep it from seeming cliched.  The story moves along briskly, with lots of plot twists that cast suspicion on each of the major players in turn, keeping you guessing until the end.  A thoroughly enjoyable page-turner.	2002-03-11
US	50788382	RZ52KRHWWO2RJ	0446667900	347427189	A Darkness More Than Night (A Harry Bosch Novel)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Less than the sum of its parts?	Author Michael Connelly presents an intriguing premise: what if retired FBI profiler Terry McCaleb (from &quot;Blood Work&quot;) were coaxed into working one more case - and his analysis led him to suspect LAPD detective Harry Bosch (from &quot;Black Echo&quot; and others) to be a murderer?  Having both of these complex characters working interlocking cases in an atmosphere of increasing suspicion could make for a great book, but unfortunately here the whole is less than the sum of its parts.  <br />The author relies on the reader's recollection of previous books in the series rather than develop the characters, especially Bosch, in this book.  The story is told mostly from McCaleb's perspective, though several chapters are devoted to Bosch as he prepares to testify in a trial happening at the same time as McCaleb's investigation.  The relevance of the trial becomes clear in time, but it is too bad that a character as interesting as Bosch is given so little to do in this story.<br />As the plot threads begin to come together, the suspense increases and there are some interesting twists toward the end.  All in all this was an enjoyable and quick read, but not up to Connelly's usual high standard.	2002-03-06
US	50788382	R1R8KYUT2CEK3A	0451179900	619729148	Key Witness	Books	3	11	13	N	N	A real page turner!	Successful corporate lawyer Wyatt Matthews wants a taste of the \\"real world,\\" so he decides to do some pro bono work at the public defender's office.  His first case, an apparently simple armed robbery, becomes a high-profile capital case when his client is accused of being a serial rapist and killer.  Wyatt gets more than his share of reality as his investigation takes him away from his suburban comfort zone and into the poverty and violence of the inner city.  We follow his detective work and legal maneuverings as he attmempts to dismantle the state's case against his client.<br />Wyatt is so naive, you wonder how he ever got so far in life, and he shows appalling lack of judgment.  The female characters are one-dimensional.  The plot - which for the most part has an air of plausibility - hinges on unlikely favors and coincidences, as if the author doesn't trust his protagonist to pull off the defense on his own.  The subplot regarding the effects of Wyatt's decision on his family is cumbersome (and family therapy sessions should never be depicted in a thriller).<br />Having said all that... I literally could not put this book down!  As the plot threads come together the story becomes more engrossing until you can't turn the pages fast enough.  If you're looking for in-depth, subtle characterizations, you won't find them here.  But if you are looking for an engaging legal thriller - with lots of action outside the courtroom, and some effort at addressing the social and political context in which the story takes place - then you will enjoy this book.	2002-03-02
US	50788382	RSNG2I5D5MAUW	1557987912	769422014	Publication Manual of the American Psychological Association	Books	3	58	66	N	N	Here we go again!	Here we go again... more minor changes to APA style!  The hanging indent is back, we don't have to type long lists of author names anymore, and we can now use parentheses (woo-hoo!).<br />If you need to prepare manuscripts in APA style and don't have a previous edition of the manual, then you need this book.  Though it remains relatively user-unfriendly, it is nonetheless the bible of manuscript preparation.<br />If you already have the fourth edition... determine how many of the changes in the fifth edition apply to your work.  If you mostly write \\"plain vanilla\\" research reports and your reference lists mostly consist of ordinary journal articles, you may be able to get by with some handwritten notes in the margins of your old book.	2002-02-19
US	50788382	R3E92I6ADBWHLV	1557985936	485269089	Presenting Your Findings: A Practical Guide for Creating Tables	Books	5	11	12	N	N	No more puzzling over tables!	This is an invaluable resource for anyone who needs to present their research results in APA style.  This is not a statistics text but rather a manual for generating tables.  Each chapter focuses on a different statistic and includes a &quot;play it safe&quot; comprehensive table as well as several variations.  Well-organized, practical, and concise.	2002-02-18
US	50788382	R32DUCCJIHMJAI	0743405900	344809762	True Justice	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Fast-paced and thought-provoking entertainment	Don't worry if, like me, you have not read any previous books in this series.  The author catches you up on the characters' lives soap-opera-style and the principal players themselves cheerfully acknowledge the unlikelihood of their history.  Once you suspend your disbelief, you are in for an entertaining time with some very appealing characters: Butch Karp, the tough, conscientious Chief Assistant District Attorney; wife Marlene Ciampri, an attorney struggling to extricate herself from her violent career as a bodyguard; and teenage daughter Lucy, a spiritually gifted language prodigy.  The three become involved in an interlocking set of crimes - two infanticides and the murder of Lucy's friend's parents.  The action moves along briskly but the heart of the novel is the characters' grappling with what would consitute \\"true\\" justice in each of these tragic cases - and how best to achieve it within an imperfect legal system.  The philosophizing is leavened with an ample dose of humor.  I'm looking forward to reading other books in this series.	2002-02-18
US	50788382	R294QQGFFV8PGC	0345404793	483248967	Protect and Defend (Kerry Kilcannon)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	More than just a courtroom drama	This political/legal novel follows the efforts of a newly-elected president to appoint a new Chief Justice of the Supreme Court; meanwhile, a case testing a law requiring parental approval of abortion for minors is working its way through the courts - right toward the president's nominee.  The long but well-paced story includes a look at the political maneuvering involved in getting a  controversial nominee approved by a narrowly divided Congress as well as thoughtful consideration of diverse viewpoints on the abortion debate.  The author appears to favor the pro-choice stance, but rejects the actions of extremists on both sides of the issue and never loses sight of the real people (including the fetus) caught in the eye of the political hurricane.  The fact that ALL the major characters have personal experiences with abortion or adoption raises the stakes but seems a bit too coincidental.  However, there are enough interesting twists to keep you turning the pages right up to the end.	2002-02-07
US	50788382	R2MOUGB76AP8RR	0449225313	36438183	The Mark of the Assassin	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Disappointing	Having loved \\"The Unlikely Spy\\" for its depth, subtlety, and complexity, I was especially disappointed by the shallow, cliched characterizations and predictable plot of \\"Mark of the Assassin.\\"    Taken on its own, it has a compelling premise - political and economic intrigue surrounding a terrorist attack on a commercial airline flight.  The author raises interesting issues but doesn't go anywhere with them, staying instead with a race-against-time or chase-scene type approach.  The ending set the stage for a sequel, but I'm not in a hurry to read it.	2002-02-04
US	50788382	R2ZUAK6JABGHSC	0449002640	442800937	The Unlikely Spy	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Unfolding layers of complexity	This is an excellent example of its genre.  The book begins slowly, with the introduction of numerous characters, but picks up pace throughout until you can't turn the pages fast enough.  The characters are 3-dimensional and the relationships between them interesting enough to make you care what happens to them.	2002-02-04
US	50788382	R19X8QWZA4JFJT	0525945938	359050157	Scarlet Feather	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Pleasant, but not her best	I generally enjoy Maeve Binchy's books, but this was not her best.  It was interesting to read about a more updated Ireland than we usually encounter in her novels, but the characters and the relationships among them were shallower than usual.  Placing all the action within the course of about a year was an interesting change of pace as well, but perhaps Binchy is more effective when she allows her characters to grow and develop over many years.	2001-10-12
US	50788382	R26SSYSTQS08KH	0060930535	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	2	7	13	N	N	Moderately interesting first half but way too long	Even the moderately interesting first half was way too long and repetitive; the author essentially told you in the first chapter what was going to happen, so it was just a question of how it was going to get there.  It got there slowly.<br />I was going to say it had the longest denouement I have ever read, but online reviewer &quot;Ellen&quot; expressed it better: &quot;page upon page of endless bla bla bla-ing&quot;	2000-11-14
