US	50785827	R2TQH164WOR60O	0385492510	409245980	Gates of Fire	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An Exhilarating Blend of History and Fiction	Pressfield combines an accurate historical analysis with contemporary fiction to make a very readable novel.  In addition, he weaves broader themes of leadership, the role of family, and selfless service into an action packed adventure featuring the selection of 300 Spartan warriors defending against the Persian army.  His account should inspire anyone in the service of the nation to understand the importance of sacrificing for the collective good.  In the spirit of Starship Troopers this novel inspired me to re-examine my own sense of service, and it motivated me to better understand the linkage between the volunteer stepping forward to fight, and the supportive family and nation sustaining those warriors on the battlefield.  <br />Using the current conflict as an analogy, if the mothers and fathers of those sons and daughters getting injured and killed in Iraq &amp; Afghanistan were to stand in front of the press daily lamenting that their children had died in vane, we would have a different policy.  Instead, we have broken hearts for our lost soldiers, but steadfastly loyal supporters of war on foreign soil.  Many recognize that our volunteer soldiers are much better equipped to handle the terrorists attracted to the magnet of Iraq, than civilians and other innocent people in the U.S. and elsewhere.  Better to have the fanatics determine how to attack the U.S. in Iraq or Afghanistan, then to have them develop the means to slip into America or Europe and attack noncombatants.<br />Bravo to Pressfield for helping us better understand the meaning of service and sacrifice, as well as providing an enjoyable historical novel.  Great book!	2004-01-04
US	50785827	R32VW37IVT6QII	0393324281	289223922	The Reckoning: Iraq and the Legacy of Saddam Hussein (Norton Paperback)	Books	4	20	22	N	N	Probing the Complexities of Iraqi History and Policy	The Reckoning rates as indispensable reading and study for all students, policy analysts and makers, military leaders, and anyone interested in Iraq's historical basis and future development.  Mackey begins with the ancient history of Mesopotamia and quickly transitions through to contemporary policy.  She includes an afterword written on Christmas Day of 2002, with the winds of war billowing from Washington.  Her detailed account of Saddam's legacy and struggle provides valuable insight to anyone with an interest in the region.  Although she prescribes no policy recommendations for the future of Iraq, her final words remain an issue the U.S. continues to struggle with today.  \\"To what extent was the U.S. going to be pulled into the abyss of Iraq?\\"  This book provides a fantastic foundation to understand the formation and development of the Iraqi state before and during Hussein's reign.  <br />My one critique: the book provides valuable insight into the complexities of Iraq and how the state became that way, but Mackey does not attempt to break new ground.  She proposes no new policies to help future administrations, nor strategies to help military leaders, NGOs, diplomats or others attempting to negotiate the pitfalls of the region.  Regardless, I am better off for having read the book, and the author presents plenty of detailed research.  Her selected bibliography provides the reader with numerous sources, scholarly and otherwise.  Some military units preparing to deploy to Iraq have bought every key leader a copy of Mackey's book.  Those leaders will be much better prepared to understand the quagmire they are about to enter, regardless of whether they know what strategies to pursue.<br />Highly recommended for anyone interested in understanding the region or the news better.	2004-01-04
US	50785827	R2AKE9HPE425SY	0743230493	5817625	Supreme Command: Soldiers, Statesmen, and Leadership in Wartime	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Case Studies of Civilian Leadership at War	Cohen's book on the nature of civil military relations provides timely analysis and debunks traditional perceptions of how civilian leaders should relate to the generals that work beneath them.  One can look to the headlines and see some of the author's opinions underlying many of the current Defense Secretary's decisions.  Rumsfeld's choices of successors to the leadership in the Army reflect Cohen's argument that the strong wartime civilian leaders have chosen the right generals, as with Lincoln, and they have also micromanaged much of the wartime effort that senior military leaders attempt to carry out.  Cohen uses four case studies of wartime leaders to support his arguments: Lincoln, Clemenceau, Churchill, and Ben Gurion.<br />Lincoln - Cohen challenges traditional views that Lincoln allowed Grant complete freedom of maneuver without undue meddling.  The president also fired numerous generals before finding in Grant someone that could win the war.  The author argues that Lincoln became very involved in military issues, and he provides examples to support his conclusion.<br />Clemenceau - the leader of France during World War I, this strong civilian head visited the front lines on average, once per week.  Cohen argues that Clemenceau developed a close understanding of the nature of war and used that to manage two general officers with monumental personalities.  Clemenceau achieved fame for his quote, \\"War is too important to be left to the generals.\\"  His quote underscores many of the opinions outlined in Cohen's book.<br />Churchill - subjected his military leaders to continuous probing about methodology, assumptions and planning.  Cohen argues that he skillfully managed his own field marshals, as well as some of the U.S. generals.  <br />Ben Gurion - this chapter provides a tremendous example of one leader building a military against all odds that could preserve a fledgling nation in the midst of many enemies, to include the British, who initially leaned toward the Palestinian cause.  Ben Gurion combined several organizations within Israel to create a military force that has withstood numerous threats to the nation's security.<br />Chapter six adds an analysis of the Vietnam conflict and attempts to debunk the popular perception that undue civilian meddling kept the military from achieving victory.  Cohen presents information that the military leadership provided no viable alternatives to the strategies proposed by McNamara and LBJ's other civilian advisors.  Thus, the president had no true choices to choose from, and he hadn't chosen the right generals that could develop alternate strategies that encompassed an understanding of the enemy and the international situation.  This provides an interesting twist to many popular conceptions of the war within our society.<br />The prologue outlines the \\"normal\\" theory of civil military relations, providing much background on Huntington's model developed in his landmark book, the Soldier and the State.  <br />Given the author's position on the Defense Policy Board as an advisor to Secretary Rumsfeld, this book helps to understand much of the philosophy behind the Defense Secretary's interaction with military leaders.   Military leaders of all uniforms, as well as civilian policy makers, will benefit from reading Supreme Command.  The book lends an alternate perspective to the traditional view of civil-military relations.<br />Highly recommended!	2003-07-04
US	50785827	R1UUWGJOY2QJL7	0805777857	313096651	Twentieth Century American Biography Series: George C. Marshall	Books	5	26	27	N	N	A Succinct Appraisal of an Extraordinary Leader	Mark Stoler writes a concise account of the life and accomplishments of George C. Marshall, one of the greatest soldiers and statesmen in U.S. history.  The opening lines in chapter one describe how Marshall was the only professional soldier to receive the Nobel Peace prize.  Stoler's work provides inspiration to not only those in uniform, but also diplomats and others interested in leadership in general.  I found the book highly readable, succinct, yet having the detailed notes that provide guidance for further reading.  It is well worth the read.<br />Stoler's work comes in at just under two hundred pages, but adds depth with extensive notes for the reader who wishes to pursue more details on the life and accomplishments of General Marshall.  The author leans heavily on Forrest C. Pogue, Marshall's official biography, and others who have written extensively on the leader and World War II.  The book also features a chronology of Marshall's life, two sets of photos, a bibliographic essay, and an index.  <br />I found the chapter on Marshall's time as Secretary of State to be extremely interesting.  He not only garnered passage of the European Recovery Plan (\\"Marshall Plan\\") during his tenure, but he also helped negotiate the Rio Pact and Organization of American States, witnessed Tito's Communist coup in Czechoslovakia, opposed the Soviet blockade of Berlin, and supported the creation of NATO.  Marshall's immense impact on world affairs can still be felt in Western Europe and elsewhere, as his military and diplomatic efforts set the stage for international relations for the remainder of the 20th century.  <br />As a military leader, I found this to be great reading and a good source for future reading on General Marshall.  Read Stoler's work if you are a student of history or enjoy reading about leadership.  Highly recommended!	2003-05-05
US	50785827	R15X7NT1YLBMGJ	0375705767	585847413	Eastward to Tartary: Travels in the Balkans, the Middle East, and the Caucasus	Books	5	3	3	N	N	History Blended With Contemporary Insight - Great Commentary	Kaplan weaves a masterful mix of travelogue, history and sociopolitical insight into a book about his journey through the Balkans, the Middle East and the Caucasus.  His writing style mirrors past journalists/travelers who sought to understand the root causes of social and political behavior through the lens of history.  Thus, expect a solid accounting of historical narrative for each country, coupled with a mix of contemporary thought largely begotten through his conversations with local politicians, journalists, and other travelers.<br />Describing the mix of ethnic paranoia, fledgling democracy, and craving for NATO membership that characterized national debate within Bulgaria in the late 1990's, Kaplan provides a rare glimpse of Bulgarian politics.  Isolated from the international community due to rivalries with Greece and Romania on its borders, the worst fear for many in this country \\"is to be forgotten\\" by the West. One chapter where Kaplan describes organized crime and its impact on Bulgaria reminds me of the headquarters of the multinational peacekeeping force in Kosovo.  Right outside the gate in Pristina, several rows of stores boast $1-2 compact disks, DVDs and other pirated material.  Western soldiers undoubtedly fuel the revenues of quasi-legitimate businesses that undermine the goals of the U.S. and European community in the region - to bring about democratic reforms.  By violating the intellectual property rights of the entertainment & software industries, these outlets twist the very nature of capitalism and diminish the likelihood that true economic development will take root in the region, thus empowering the organized crime syndicates attempting to maintain their grip on power in the Balkans.  The future becomes all the more complex given NATO's recent membership offer to Bulgaria, Romania, Slovenia, and Slovakia.  How much has changed within these countries over the last three or four years?  Maybe a lot, but the book provides useful insight into the not-so-distant past in the Balkans.<br />Kaplan's description of Turkish politics, ethnic struggles and religious strife helps a reader understand current issues in the republic, highly relevant given the current crisis with Iraq on Turkey's southern border.  Military officers and other officials would do well to prepare themselves with accounts like Kaplan's that illustrate some of the challenges of democracy in this contemporary country built on the ruins of ancient empires.  For example, Kaplan interviews a professor at the University of Ankara that describes the growth of Islamic fundamentalism in Turkey as an \\"assertion of traditional rural values\\" and not creeping fanatical religious overtones in a secular state.  Western diplomats should understand this distinction, if dealing in Turkey, as well as understanding the powerful influence that the Turkish General Staff has within the country. <br />Kaplan's synopsis of Syria and Lebanon create much food for thought as we move toward further conflict in the Middle East.  Given the alliance between Turkey and Israel during the recent past, the government of Syria has grown very insecure.  How will a US-Turkish- Israeli pact affect the balance of Middle Eastern politics?  This book provides a useful backdrop to understand history and developments within the region.  Read Kaplan to forecast the trials of our future in the Balkans, the Middle East, and the Caucasus.	2003-02-27
US	50785827	R2MZCD9RO7NIYB	079450115X	600663916	Starting Chess (First Skills)	Books	5	8	15	N	N	This Book Got My Son Interested in Chess	I began reading this book to my son when he was four.  We started with the basics of how to set up the board and how the pieces move.  Starting Chess helped peak my son's interest and learning in the game.  He has now progressed to thinking about strategy and combinations as a result of Harriet Castor's excellent method for conveying the fundamentals found in book.<br />As an Usborne book, I knew this would probably be a great tool to teach the game since the company designs interactive reading to compete with television and video games.  The puzzles and great graphics throughout helped to stimulate my son's (and now my younger daughter's) interest.  They are both really enjoying the game, and we play often.<br />Highly recommended!<br />PS \\"Chess For Children\\" by Ted Nottingham is an excellent follow on book to continue developing young kid's passion for Chess.	2003-01-04
US	50785827	R3GHU58Q9W4UNO	079450115X	600663916	Starting Chess (First Skills)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	This Book Got My Son Interested in Chess	I began reading this book to my son when he was four.  We started with the basics of how to set up the board and how the pieces move.  Starting Chess helped peak my son's interest and learning in the game.  He has now progressed to thinking about strategy and combinations as a result of Harriet Castor's excellent method for conveying the fundamentals found in book.<br />As an Usborne book, I knew this would probably be a great tool to teach the game since the company designs interactive reading to compete with television and video games.  The puzzles and great graphics throughout helped to stimulate my son's (and now my younger daughter's) interest.  They are both really enjoying the game, and we play often.<br />Highly recommended!<br />PS \\"Chess For Children\\" by Ted Nottingham is an excellent follow on book to continue developing young kid's passion for Chess.	2003-01-04
US	50785827	RGPYP3I6MB4LP	079450115X	600663916	Starting Chess (First Skills)	Books	5	25	27	N	N	This Book Got My Son Interested in Chess	I began reading this book to my son when he was four.  We began with the basics of how to set up the board and how the pieces move.  Starting Chess helped peak my son's interest and learning in the game.  He has now progressed to thinking about strategy and combinations as a result of Harriet Castor's excellent method for conveying the fundamentals found in book.<br />As an Usborne book, I knew this would probably be a great tool to teach the game since the company designs interactive reading to compete with television and video games.  The puzzles and great graphics throughout helped to stimulate my son's (and now my younger daughter's) interest.  They are both really enjoying the game, and we play often.<br />Highly recommended!<br />PS \\"Chess For Children\\" by Ted Nottingham is an excellent follow on book to continue developing young kid's passion for Chess.	2003-01-04
US	50785827	RSSMKMKE2T4A1	079450115X	600663916	Starting Chess (First Skills)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	This Book Got My Son Interested in Chess	I began reading this book to my son when he was four.  We started with the basics of how to set up the board and how the pieces move.  Starting Chess helped peak my son's interest and learning in the game.  He has now progressed to thinking about strategy and combinations as a result of Harriet Castor's excellent method for conveying the fundamentals found in book.<br />As an Usborne book, I knew this would probably be a great tool to teach the game since the company designs interactive reading to compete with television and video games.  The puzzles and great graphics throughout helped to stimulate my son's (and now my younger daughter's) interest.  They are both really enjoying the game, and we play often.<br />Highly recommended...	2003-01-04
US	50785827	R3PU65MESHO56	0806904534	266663335	Chess for Children	Books	5	35	37	N	N	Great Beginning Resource for Teaching Kids the Game	I bought two books for my son (7) and daughter (5) to help continue their developing interest in chess.  The two books are Chess For Children and How to Beat Your Dad at Chess.  The latter turned out to be too advanced for my kids, but Chess For Children is exactly what my kids needed to learn about the game.  Written by teachers in Lincolnshire, England, the book uses great techniques to help children understand basic skills.  My children already know how to set up the board and how each piece should move on the board, but the methods in Chess For Children help them go beyond \\"how\\" a piece moves to \\"why\\" they should move it.  <br />For example, the book features the Lincolnshire System, or the \\"Pawn Game\\", teaching kids to play with only the pawns.  This method develops an understanding for how to use pawns in concert and how quickly the picket line can dissolve when a player doesn't ensure the pieces mutually support each other.  The authors also present several other interesting techniques for teaching youngsters how to maneuver (instead of move) knights, rooks and bishops around the board.  My daughter's favorite game is the Mad Queen, pitting the queen on one side against all of the pawns of an opponent.  The opponent must attempt to get one pawn to the far side before the queen kills them all.<br />My kids love the games and techniques outlined in Nottingham's book.  The authors weave a mix of chess history, years of enthusiasm teaching youth, along with the basics of chess.  The product reflects a wealth of experience and a passion for both children and the game of chess.  Bravo!  Highly recommended!	2003-01-01
US	50785827	R15ZINZUXN7IY2	0028740238	896131509	Arabists: The Romance of an American Elite	Books	5	35	43	N	N	History of a State Department Clique	Kaplan strings together pearls of biography to create a historical review of an interesting segment of the State Department's Foreign Service.  Beginning with T.E. Lawrence and several other well-known British, the author weaves together a story of diplomatic intrigue in the Middle East.  I found two particular segments especially fascinating - the rescue of Jewish Falashas from Sudan and the history leading up to the Gulf War with Iraq, in light of a potential repeat in world affairs.<br />Although Kaplan does highlight the tensions between Arabists and those with pro-Israeli sympathies, the work serves to demonstrate through historical biography the evolution of western influence in the region.  He makes the case that the Palestinian-Israeli issue has not strictly defined the Middle East.  Kaplan doesn't write from personal recollection, however, as he did with Balkan Ghosts.  This book is research based through reading and extensive interviews with many from the State Department and elsewhere.  <br />The last portion of the book focuses on events in the State Department leading up to the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait.  Kaplan blasts many of the Arabists, former ambassador to Iraq April Glaspie foremost among them, for attempting to appease Saddam.  Although he qualifies his critique by portraying a lack of policy emphasis from Washington leaving the embassy staffs in the Middle East to find their own way forward, Kaplan claims the Arabists continued to view Iraq and other totalitarian regimes through rose colored glasses.  Had they represented U.S. interests instead of romanticizing from within embassy walls, he argues that our diplomats could have sent Saddam the signal that the U.S. would respond to aggression.<br />Overall, I found the book provided an interesting historical background on the Middle East region through the eyes of the diplomats that have served there.  Kaplan provides good background reading up to Operation Desert Storm in 1991.  Given the currenttension surrounding the Iraqi regime, I found much of the book relevant to contemporary affairs.  Well worth the read!	2002-12-22
US	50785827	R2WP8S5JLTUH52	0140114068	181024941	The Mask of Command	Books	5	55	55	N	N	Case Studies of Historic Commanders	Keegan analyzes the idiosyncrasies of four very different commanders in order to characterize the nature of command and how it has evolved over time.  He emphasizes the impact of technology and cultural change on the nature of command.  Using four unique vignettes of Alexander, Wellington, Grant and Hitler, Keegan portrays the evolution of generalship from the heroic days of physical leadership to the nuclear age.  I found the part on Hitler very interesting.  Below are some of Keegan's illustrations.<br />Alexander - the importance of physical courage, leading at the tip of the spear, and animating a theatrical quality, which inspires the soldiers.<br />Wellington - still on the front lines, but not leading the charge.  Keegan describes  Wellington's careful orchestration of the conflict with Napoleon on the fields of Waterloo.  He begins to make the case for the impact of technology (gunpowder and muskets) on the general's ability to influence the fight from the front.<br />Grant - and \\"unheroic\\" leadership, as Keegan describes his style.  The author praises Grant throughout the narration, especially how the Union General understood the changing nature of war better than most.  Keegan cites instances of Grant's bravery (at Palo Alto and elsewhere) and refers favorably to Grant's Memoirs.  This praise contrasts with the next case study, that of Hitler.<br />Hitler - beginning with Hitler's service in World War I, Keegan demonstrates the impact of the Great War on Hitler's leadership style and understanding of war.  Keegan highlights Hitler's mistrust of many of his \\"staff\\" generals, given his own insight from the front as a messenger during WWI.  Most of the general staff officers never served near the front since technology had rendered the front so lethal that generals, invested with tremendous talent and education, did not wander there.  Hitler derided them at every opportunity.  <br />This is applied history at its best.  I found the piece on Hitler the most fascinating aspect of the book.  Read The Mask of Command if you are a student of military history or enjoy reading about leadership.	2002-10-09
US	50785827	R16KLN10HROG3N	0684833638	917889657	A Moveable Feast	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Corps of Classic Artists in Paris in the 20s	Hemmingway describes the people he cavorted with in France during the 1920's as Vonnegut portrays fantastic characters in his novels.  The prose tells the idiosyncratic tales and eccentricities of writers making their way, or trying to make their way, on the streets of Paris after World War I.  I enjoyed the book immensely, especially as it provided insight into the lives of many writers whom I had previously read, but never read about.  Hemmingway describes reading F. Scott Fitzgerald's The Great Gadsby when it was first published.  He tells of his relationship with Fitzgerald and his wife, Zelda.  He writes about visiting Gertrude Stein and others in his younger days in Paris.  Hemmingway's vivid portrayal of many of the `20s most famous personalities has given me renewed interest to read their works, and his.  I look forward to rereading The Sun Also Rises and other works of literary greatness.  <br />He also writes about what it is like to be a writer.  Holding counsel with Fitzgerald and others, Hemmingway provides a snapshot into his discipline.  This work presents great insight into the life of a truly great author.	2002-10-07
US	50785827	R3V2WYQF0FWUTR	0486275507	287891442	The Road Not Taken and Other Poems (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	49	50	N	N	The Essence of a Moment � Poetry by Frost	Frost, like no other poet, captures a moment that we all have experienced at one time in life.  He paints a picture with such vivid strokes of literary imagery that the mind brings the reader back to a moment in time, almost feeling the sensations of past experiences.<br />For example, I recently made a decision where I was torn between family and career interests.  To ease the anxiety of a lost professional opportunity, I reasoned that the chance would present itself again someday, maybe.  Thinking of Frost I realized that he captured that very self-rationalization in the Road Not Taken.  \\"Oh, I kept the first for another day!  Yet knowing how way leads on to way, I doubted if I should ever come back.\\"  <br />As others have pointed out already, the largest drawback of the book is lack of thickness.  Even though one of my all-time favorites, \\"Stopping By the Woods on a Snowy Evening,\\" is not present, others like \\"An Old Man's Winter Night\\" make up for it.  If you need a small book to stick in a backpack while hiking for moments of inspiration while on the trail, you could do worse than to carry along a little bit of Frost.	2002-08-09
US	50785827	R2DT8GVWGRV1LH	0060929081	900958788	Dereliction of Duty: Johnson, McNamara, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the Lies That Led to Vietnam	Books	4	10	14	N	N	Detailed Research with an Axe to Grind	This book represents an indictment of the Johnson administration and the ramifications of prioritizing personal political fortunes (i.e. presidential legacies) before the national interest.  McMasters describes Kennedy coming to power and bringing in the likes of McNamara and other New Frontiersman to attempt to reform defense policy.  He also describes the Kennedy administration dismantling Eisenhowers National Security Council structure, which effectively reduced the Joint Chiefs of Staffs (JCS) voice and influence.  Kennedy, having an uneasy relationship with the military, brought in General (Retired) Maxwell Taylor as his military representative.  This effectively allowed him to distance the JCS, traditionally sanctioned to provide military advice to the president, from policy making.<br />For example, McMasters describes how McNamara and Taylor misrepresented the JCS concerns over the strategy of graduated response.  They also deliberately distorted the Khanhs opinion that South Vietnam required a strong response.  Johnson, Taylor and McNamara also gave the impression that no decision had been made on a Vietnam strategy to stall any public criticism.  McNamara and Taylor were able to co-opt and suppress JCS criticism by encouraging parochialism between the services and providing favors to them in return for no public condemnation.  Most who have led soldiers will probably consider the facts described within this book as criminal.<br />My one criticism of the book rests in its clearly biased thesis.  Beginning with the title, McMasters shows his one sided opinion, yet rigorously substantiates it through detailed research.  Had he simply presented the facts, without characterizing them as lies and deliberate machinations of the system, he would have presented a more powerful case.  The reader could base his or her own conclusions upon an individual interpretation.  Instead, McMasters shows his predisposition from the beginning, immediately creating suspicion within the reader.  Other than this one criticism, the book clearly merits attention by anyone interested in Vietnam, the military, or presidential politics.<br />Highly recommended for the military and political professionals.	2002-04-27
US	50785827	R1CZOKOFR2DUQR	038526089X	478936434	Complete Verse	Books	5	31	35	N	N	Raw, Untarnished Kipling!	Much ado has been made lately about Kipling, mainly due to a resurgence of affection for poems like The White Man's Burden.  Although this has been brought on by the war on terrorism, Kipling's work will brave the tests of time granting him immortality.<br />Some reviewers have criticized the organization of Complete Verse.  The table of contents lists all 500 or so poems in alphabetical order, and the editor provides an index of first lines.  What the reader does not get is a scholar's interpretation of Kipling's prose.  Although sometimes I enjoy reading another's perspective on the author's intentions, why bias my own experience with the thoughts of another critic?  Much better to walk the fields of verse on a virgin path, experiencing Kipling through my own mind.  <br />A great compilation of poetry from a splendid author.  Bravo!	2002-04-07
US	50785827	R1FYYURTMHRF3X	0393057011	536881794	Micromotives and Macrobehavior (Fels Lectures on Public Policy Analysis)	Books	5	23	25	N	N	Great Supplement to an Applied Econ Course	Schelling explains the world of externalities with fun examples, supported by economic logic and mathematical models.  Economists describe externalities as non-optimal market solutions that arise from individuals making decisions in their own self-interest.  These are interesting because most of economics deals with describing how Adam Smith's \\"invisible hand,\\" individuals acting in their own self-interest, produces efficient market solutions.  Notable examples of externalities are pollution, traffic congestion, and education.  Education is a positive externality, while the former two are negative externalities.<br />Although you don't have to be a mathematician or economist to understand Schelling's writing, those who aren't may get bored with the litany of mathematical possibilities that he uses to explain why some models help explain much of the phenomena he discusses.  Barring that criticism, many of his examples entice the reader to think about things in a new light.  For example, why do audiences tend to sit in the middle or rear seats and not up front during performances or why do we suffer from traffic congestion?  The author describes how the overall result of too much traffic or empty seats in the front rows occurs from the numerous individual decisions people make on where to sit or drive.  Thus, if the front ten rows in an auditorium were empty, everyone would be better off moving forward ten rows.  Nothing would change in their relative positions in the audience, but everyone could hear better.  Why doesn't this occur?  Read Micromotives and Macrobehavior to find out.<br />As an economics instructor, I would consider using this book as a supplement to a course in applied economics (or mathematics).  Schelling's writing could help interest student's in the subject matter of externalities more than many of the textbooks on the market.  Great read!	2002-04-07
US	50785827	R1WPOBXG8P88RQ	0874771501	756099676	The New Diary: How to Use a Journal for Self-Guidance and Expanded Creativity	Books	5	22	26	N	N	Great Creative Reference	I bought this book because I have been keeping a journal for several years.  During an interview, the subject of journaling came up and I was asked what I had learned about myself through keeping a journal.  After reflecting on the question, I realized I hadn't been using the journal for introspection, rather only as a method to record things that were occurring in my life.  I recognized that truly gaining the most from keeping a journal meant exploring my own strengths and weaknesses through creative discovery.  The New Diary has helped me do that...She has not let me down.  The New Diary contains a wealth of ideas to unleash the exploratory potential of a journal for personal growth.  I will refer to it time and time again when wanting to try new techniques to learn about my experiences and relationships.  This book acts as a great source for ideas.<br />Highly recommended!  Well worth the purchase.	2002-04-05
US	50785827	RW4U80KCNDXLA	0970968213	772897529	Leadership: The Warrior's Art	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Must Read For Leaders at All Levels!	This book is a fantastic compendium of essays on leadership, specifically as it applies to the military experience. Chris Kolenda compiles a list of some of the most talented senior and junior leaders today, both in and out of uniform, as well as renowned historians. The vast majority of the authors taught at the U.S. Military Academy during some point in their career, ranging from the Departments of History, Social Sciences, and Behavioral Sciences & Leadership, to the Department of Physical Education. <br />The book is comprised of three major sections, 1) Ancient and Modern Concepts of Leadership, 2) Historical Case Studies, and 3) Contemporary Experiences and Reflections on Leadership, with author biographies, endnotes and index at the back. General (Retired) Barry McCaffrey wrote the foreword, while Lieutenant General (Retired) Walter Ulmer wrote the Introduction. The authors consist of such leaders as LTG Daniel Christman, former Superintendent of West Point, General (Retired) Gordon Sullivan, former Chief of Staff of the Army, and Professor Frederick Kagan, just to name a few. <br />This work contains a tremendous selection of thoughts and experiences on the art of leading soldiers. I will keep it on my shelf to refer to time and time again. As the editor writes in the preface, \\"developing the vibrant intellectual core from which a leader can draw insight into the art of leadership requires the courage and humility to immerse oneself in the ideas and experiences of others.\\" Leadership: The Warrior's Art acts as a tremendous vehicle toward achieving that end.<br />Highly recommended for the military professional!	2002-04-03
US	50785827	R4X7IVLSLJVKD	0679749810	806639526	Balkan Ghosts: A Journey Through History	Books	5	79	89	N	N	Idiosyncratic, Shocking, Compelling!	Kaplan weaves a masterful mix of travelogue, history and sociopolitical insight into a book about his journey through the Balkans, before Kosovo became headlines. He traveled throughout the region during the 80's and wrote stories of his adventures along the way. He uses the word idiosyncratic to describe his writing, given that his style mirrors past journalists/travelers who sought to understand the root causes of social and political behavior through the lens of history. Thus, expect a solid accounting of historical narrative for each country, coupled with a mix of contemporary thought largely begotten through his conversations with local politicians, journalists, and travelers. <br />Criticisms: <BR>1) His approach is fairly egotistical since he believes that few Western reporters actually capture the complexity of the region, and none, except a rare few (of which he is one), ever understand the people or their real motivations. Although his assessment of Western reporters may have elements of truth, he seems to make the point numerous times throughout the book as if to create his own air of superiority. <BR>2) Kaplan's assessment of Greece seems to carry the most weight since he lived there for seven years, whereas he sometimes only spends days in other regions. Nevertheless, he feels obliged to draw the same broad generalizations from those areas where he spoke to relatively few people, as he does from places where he met many people and spent much time. His underlying assumption throughout the book is that only a thorough understanding of history can engender a comprehension for the present state of affairs. Thus, in the countries he frequented little, he feels a fair amount of research in history allows him to make the same prognostications as he makes in areas where he has gotten to know many people.<br />Barring the above critiques, I enjoyed the book and found myself coming back to it until complete. He complements a firm grip of historical facts with a wonderful ability to depict people and places through metaphor and descriptive writing. Here is an example, \\"Greeks are married to the East. The West is our mistress only. Like any mistress, the West excites and fascinates us, but our relationship with it is episodic and superficial.\\" His ability to characterize relationships, people and places with words is refreshing. I will definitely read more Kaplan.	2002-03-31
US	50785827	R4PIZXEH067UZ	0465083560	123213530	The Age Of Terror	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Survey of Great Thinkers on the Post Cold War Environment	The Age of Terror compiles the thoughts of various academics about the roots of terrorism and possible directions for national security.  The majority of the all-star cast of authors is currently teaching at Yale.  Most are historians, while a law professor, a management professor and a scientist round out the crew.  Many of the authors also have some political experience, whether within the beltway or overseas.  Their thoughts and ideas are well articulated and diverse.  <br />My one criticism of the book lies in the lack of any attempt to synthesize some of the ideas into a coherent set of policy choices.  Given the political experience of Strobe Talbott and Charles Hill, among others, this team could have taken the time to combine some of their thoughts into policy options that our current leaders could consider.  Instead, the editors succumbed to the publisher's pressure to rush to market before the window of opportunity created by 9/11 passed.  <br />Other than the above criticism, I found the majority of the essays insightful and informative, even though I have stayed very current on these issues since my profession requires a firm understanding of the national security environment.  I highly recommend this book for anyone interested in surveying the opinions of many of the foremost historians and other professionals in our society today.	2002-03-24
US	50785827	R1NOHFF29WK2P5	0072318228	172036271	Real Estate Perspectives:  An Introduction to Real Estate	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Comprehensive Commercial Focus on Real Estate	I took Jack Corgel's course in the Hotel School at Cornell.  We used the third edition of this text, and it covered the spectrum of concepts for a basic introduction to real estate investment.  Even though the course focused on commercial real estate, I found the concepts have helped me determine whether I have made good choices in residential real estate, as well.  The best aspect of the book (and the course) was applying a discounted cash flow analysis to particular properties.  As a method to assess the financial viability of a property by analyzing the rent, tax, depreciation and other effects, the discounted cash flow analysis helped me feel much more confident in my real estate investments.<br />The book covers four basic areas: investment principles like net present value, real estate markets, mortgage financing, and legal aspects of real estate.  Although not flashy with lots of pictures, the essential concepts and methods are thoughtfully explained and applied.  I highly recommend this book as a reference to keep on your shelf to refer to periodically if engaged in the acquisition of real estate.	2002-03-23
US	50785827	R2PKMS906ZKPW2	0761508414	579985176	Managing Rental Properties for Maximum Profit, Revised 2nd Edition	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Effective Management - Don't Let the Title Fool You	Although the title would insinuate that this is another get-rich-quick book, Perry actually lays out an effective strategy for individual investors managing from one to a handful of properties.  Written from the perspective of someone who will purchase and manage rental properties themselves, the book covers the basics of managing residential rental property.  Perry also stresses the importance of building good relationships with neighbors and tenants.  All in all, he outlines many reliable business practices that small property owners would want to know.  <br />This book does not discuss commercial property or dealing with rental management companies and other agents.  However, even if you plan on relying on a rental management firm, this book will equip you with the basic knowledge necessary to make informed decisions.  You will have to look elsewhere to find a book that discusses dealing with housing inspectors, title agents, attorney's and the like.  There are several other books on the market that fulfill this need.<br />Overall, I highly recommend this book for anyone considering managing rentals themselves or renting out a house through an agent.  It is a great summary of many solid business practices.	2002-03-23
US	50785827	R1QTCBHJFMWTP3	0801859840	257589448	American National Security	Books	5	14	14	N	N	The Fundamentals of Foreign Policy &amp; Strategy	This book serves its purpose well.  It clearly walks the reader through elements of national security, the actors, processes, and how Americans have traditionally approached it.  With a unique perspective on the military element of power, the book also covers regional security issues and early twenty first century topics.  As a senior level undergraduate text or as a basis to launch into discussion in graduate level seminars, American National Security conveys the fundamentals of U.S. security policy in a clear, articulate manner.  <br />Jordan and Taylor both taught in the Department of Social Sciences at West Point in the early 1970's.  Mazaar joined them for the 5th edition after directing the Millennium Project at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.  The book was designed to convey the basics of policy and process in American national security.  The fifth edition is currently in use at the Army's Command &amp; General Staff College for officers at the rank of major enrolled in strategic studies.  It serves well as a foundation to discuss national security strategy and policy.<br />The book has two weaknesses.  It is due for a revision given the dynamic nature of the post Cold War environment, especially since 9/11.  It also lacks the standard amount of pictures, graphs and charts that normally accompany today's college texts.  The book contains all black and white text with limited charts, maps and cartoons.  Although this has not been a problem at the master's level, it could be perceived as a drawback to generating undergraduate interest in the subject matter.  <br />Notwithstanding the above criticism, Taylor, Jordan and Mazaar have created a text that lays out the basics of national security policy, actors and institutions.  Highly recommended.	2002-03-21
US	50785827	R34S2MTAGXBYOG	039443532X	27509538	Markings	Books	5	25	26	N	N	A Journey into the Soul	I like this book.  It captures the innermost struggles and thoughts of a man who achieved greatness in many senses.  Dag Hammarskjold's musings illuminate that even people of worldly importance wrestle with the same internal conflicts that the rest of mankind does, when we take the time to reflect.  That a man as busy as the U.N. Secretary General took the time to engage in such introspection speaks highly of his humility and character.  <br />Markings has given me inspiration to continue exploring my own innermost struggles through journaling and taking counsel with my conscience on long runs.  If we could all emulate Hammarskjold's ability to capture the essence of a moment, feeling or internal conflict, we would probably be more at peace with the world and ourselves.  Highly recommended for any wishing to peer into the thoughts of a philosophical leader.	2002-03-21
US	50785827	R1I5HX5W21VH7R	0253208602	104252892	The Patterns of War Since the Eighteenth Century, Second Edition	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Mandatory Text for U.S. Army Majors	As the title indicates, the Army's Command &amp; General Staff College requires students to read Patterns of War in the core history class.  Professors can make best use of this book as a supplement to a more thorough analysis into military history.  Addington surveys the history of warfare from the evolution of national warfare in France and the U.S. in the late 1700's to operations in Desert Storm.  <br />This book will not provide a lot of depth or analysis, simply the basic facts and a good list of sources from which to perform further research.  If a student or enthusiast of history, use Patterns of War to gain a cursory understanding of many of the conflicts in the last two centuries.  Or, use it as a basis to launch into further study and learning.  Addington provides a respectable review of the development of 200 years of war.	2002-03-13
US	50785827	RE4ENHJ6O07LQ	0864421486	318947574	Lonely Planet Ecuador and the Galapagos Islands (Lonely Planet Travel Survival Kit)	Books	5	75	76	N	N	Great All Around Source Book for Travel in Ecuador	If you have used some of the more popular travel guides like Frommers or Fodors, you will be pleasantly surprised by the depth and coverage of Lonely Planet. Lonely Planet guides are marketed for backpackers, but my wife and I spent two weeks traveling throughout Ecuador and the Galapagos Islands, and this book served us well. We stayed in Quito in both a hotel and hostel, ate in some of the classiest restaurants and some of the best value restaurants, and traveled to several towns and cities. We had a fantastic time, due in large part to the planning we were able to conduct from this book.<br />For example, while on a four-day cruise of the Galapagos, we were able to use the book's Galapagos wildlife section to identify many of the birds and other animals we spotted. With full color photos and short descriptions of each species, we could catalog all of our sightings on the handy checklist provided. Given that my wife is an avid bird watcher, the book did not have the same level of detail as a standard birding guide. However, considering that this is a travel guide, we were glad that we didn't need to carry several books to identify animals, as well as find our way around some of the more obscure places in Ecuador.<br />Because of the tips included in the book, we enjoyed many of the nuances of the country. For instance, the author recommended that it was cheaper to rent a taxi for a day to travel to surrounding markets, then to rent a car and drive. Driving risks accidents, getting lost, and incurring costs for fuel and insurance. As a result of the author's suggestion, we split the taxi fee for the day with a couple from Venezuela and traveled to the market in Otavalo, San Antonio de Ibarra (famous for wood carvings), and another small village that sold leather. My wife and I were able to get great quality leather jackets, a woodcarving, and some tapestries as part of a wonderful day of touring the country north of Quito. We would not have had as good of an understanding for what to do and see without this book.<br />If traveling to Ecuador or the famous Galapagos Islands, I highly recommend Lonely Planet. The book is specifically geared toward hikers and mountain climbers, but we found it extremely useful due to its depth and richness of ideas. Well worth the money.	2002-03-13
US	50785827	R2LC1S7I3KUFVS	0691027641	810381478	Makers of Modern Strategy from Machiavelli to the Nuclear Age	Books	4	38	43	N	N	Mandatory Reading for Army Staff Majors	As the title indicates, the Army's Command &amp; General Staff College requires students to read Makers of Modern Strategy in the core history class.  Professors can make best use of this book as a supplement.  As other reviewers have noted, the chapters are disjointed with each other.  Taken separately, however, many of the chapters help the history student or enthusiast to develop a depth of understanding on a particular subject.  Authors such as John Shy, Douglas Porch, Michael Howard, and Condoleeza Rice, just to name a few, explore many of the strategic issues involved with the evolution of military thought.  <br />From Machiavelli and Clausewitz to strategies of world wars and colonial wars, Makers of Modern Strategy adds value to any serious study of warfare.  The high quality academic research and thought that underlies many of the articles is worth the price of the book.  Highly recommended.	2002-03-12
US	50785827	RZRY7UWBCC5OS	0486268721	812638621	Abraham Lincoln: Great Speeches (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	23	23	N	N	A Survey of Lincoln's Best	This book presents the full-length versions of some of Lincoln's best oratory feats.  Great Speeches contains fifteen of Lincoln's best along with his famous letter to Mrs. Bixby, who lost all five of her sons during the war.  Here is an excerpt as only Lincoln could create: <BR>&quot;I pray that our Heavenly Father may assuage the anguish of your bereavement, and leave you only the cherished memory of the loved and lost, and the solemn pride that must be yours, to have laid so costly a sacrifice upon the altar of Freedom.&quot;<br />What you get from the book is a fabulous primary source from which to quote our sixteenth president.  What you do not get is a lot of analysis on his underlying motivations.  Although a short essay at the beginning of each discourse helps place Lincoln's words in historical context, you will not find a wealth of scholarly insight into why Lincoln gave each particular speech and what the implications were to the nation.  Nevertheless, Great Speeches helps the reader understand this incredible man in a manner unbiased by the opinions of others.<br />Highly recommended for anyone wishing to learn more about President Lincoln and some of the issues he faced during a time of incredible national upheaval.	2002-03-10
US	50785827	R1OPRBMOZNFCL	0393318672	154350783	The Ugly American	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Classic For All Living & Traveling Abroad	Although written in 1958, the lessons extolled in this easy-to-read collection of stories remain relevant today.  I lived in Panama for over three years and witnessed many of the characters and policies discussed within this book.  It amazes me how little U.S. policy and influence have changed since then.  We need to get beyond what J. William Fulbright termed The Arrogance of Power and engage the world at a more fundamental level.  As the authors make the case for, America has a tremendous amount of genuine, caring individuals that can help have an impact in regions of need.  However, we must be willing to learn and understand the cultures we attempt to assist. <br />As members of the military, my wife and I have always chosen to live on the economy and experience the culture of a foreign country.  All too often, however, the majority of military members chose to huddle around base PXs and commissaries.  Beyond that, many people would complain about not having anything to do in a country where dining, SCUBA diving and just plain enjoying your own island for the weekend are dirt-cheap.  Often, I heard people exclaim that they couldnt wait to get back to the states to eat at Taco Bell or to go to the mall.  America has a tremendous amount of culture and things to enjoy, but somehow Taco Bell and the mall shouldnt make it to the top of our priorities.  Dont let the books title insinuate an attack against Americans, though.  Many of the characters, French, Russian, and Asian also display some less-than-virtuous traits.  The authors make the point and believe in many of the moral qualities that our society attempts to export, despite the fact that they candidly assail the methods we employ.  <br />The Ugly American is a great book to read prior to traveling.  It will help open your eyes to how other cultures view the U.S. and make you sensitive to those perceptions.  All Americans are ambassadors of our culture.  Use this book as a good guideabout how to represent our culture in a positive light.  A quick, humorous read, I highly recommend The Ugly American to anyone visiting or living abroad.	2002-02-25
US	50785827	R2AUCBP07ZV8OO	0684844419	9851575	The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of World Order	Books	5	5	8	N	N	A New Construct For The Causes of International Conflict	Huntington's thesis in the \\"Clash of Civilizations\\" is that the majority of future conflicts will occur between civilizations - Western, Islamic, Latin American, African, Sinic, Hindu, Orthodox, Buddhist, and Japanese as he defines them. All students and professors of international relations would benefit from reading Huntington. Regardless of whether he is correct or not, his theory has generated more debate than any recent proposals over the character of the post Cold War international setting that will emerge in the coming decades. Policy makers in economics, the military or politics would also benefit from understanding Huntington's theory.<br />As with many theorists, Huntington attempts to highlight principles that can be applied to various settings. He develops a model based on civilizations to help explain the sources of future conflicts in international affairs. Like all models, the theorist must simplify reality to expose universal truths, which can be applied in various milieus. Of course, Huntington's model will not explain every instance of political, economic and military conflict. Over time, however, it may serve to help explain a preponderance of future strife between nations. <br />The relevance of \\"The Clash of Civilizations,\\" will more than likely wax and wane with the ebbing and flowing of international events. For example, the current conflict in Afghanistan tends to support Huntington's thesis. Hence the large amount of attention paid to his book in Washington D.C. recently. However, interest will fall in and out of favor with political elites as new conflicts emerge that either fit the model, or do not apply to the theory.<br />If short on time, read chapter one. The gist: A new era in world politics has emerged, defined by clashes between major civilizations. This chapter is essentially an executive summary of the entire book. As a former advisor to President Clinton, Huntington realizes that most politicians and many policy makers do not have time to read entire books. He conveniently summarizes the book in chapter one. The remainder of the text is organized to substantiate his thesis with supporting facts.	2002-02-16
US	50785827	R1P34RQX2JJ6MX	0394871804	112777300	The Berenstain Bears on the Moon	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Send Your Child's Imagination to the Moon!	Although Amazon advertises this book for ages 4-8, my wife and I started reading this and other Stan and Jan Berenstain books to our children from 18 months and up. Always a delight, our kids would laugh at the silliness while learning a lesson about life. We started a great habit of reading two or three books before bed, and the kids loved them. Soon, they would memorize many of the phrases, beginning a lifelong passion for reading. <br />Every kid should experience reading books by the Berenstains while growing up. The characters are well developed, the rhyming phrases help kids become enthusiastic about reading, and the messages about life make them think.  Bears On The Moon got my son and daughter asking questions about space and interested in the great beyond.  Combine this with other fun Berenstain Bear books and your kids will sit enthralled as you turn the pages. Highly recommended.	2002-02-08
US	50785827	R431XMYX8T0WQ	0679881298	922627126	Hooper Humperdink...? Not Him! (Bright & Early Books(R))	Books	5	9	10	N	N	The Silliness of Seuss Plus a Valuable Lesson	Although [advertised] for ages 4-8, my wife and I started reading this and other Seuss books to our children from 6 months on. We started a great habit of reading two or three Seuss books before bed, and the kids loved them. Soon, they would memorize many of the phrases, beginning a lifelong passion for reading. <br />Every kid should experience reading Hooper Humperdink while growing up. Hooper Humperdink..? Not Him! combines the zaniness of other Seuss books with a lesson about excluding others. Around ages 4+, kids begin to divide the world into various segments (i.e. boys and girls). This book helps children learn how hurtful excluding someone for being different can be.  Combine this with other fun Seuss books and your kids will sit enthralled as you turn the pages. Highly recommended.	2002-02-08
US	50785827	R3310KLTZY7TK1	039480029X	23889865	Hop on Pop  (I Can Read It All By Myself)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Fun & Laughter Will Not Stop with Hop On Pop	Although ... advertises this book for ages 4-8, my wife and I started reading this and other Seuss books to our children from 6 months on. Always a delight, our kids would laugh at the silliness while acquiring a zest for life at the same time. We started a great habit of reading two or three Seuss books before bed, and the kids loved them. Soon, they would memorize many of the phrases, beginning a lifelong passion for reading. <br />Every kid should experience reading Hop On Pop while growing up. My kids never fail to want to horse around and hop on pop just upon reference to the book.  Combine this with other fun Seuss books and your kids will sit enthralled as you turn the pages. Highly recommended.	2002-02-08
US	50785827	R1PIZZZNHJ1NMP	0195014766	459752409	The Art of War	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Beyond War: Sun Tzu Explains Strategy & Politics	Although Karl von Clausewitz stated that war is an extension of politics, Sun Tzu imparted that wisdom hundreds of years before.  As a result, his book embellishes on politics and human behavior as much as strategy and warfare.  Students and enthusiasts of political science, strategy, the humanities or military affairs will appreciate the wisdom embodied in Samuel Griffin's elaboration of Sun Tzu's timeless work.  As Sun Tzu impresses throughout the book, \\"the supreme art of war is to subdue the enemy without fighting.\\"<br />Politicians and pundits would do well to heed the acumen found within the pages of The Art of War.  In the foreword B. H. Liddell Hart, the famous British military strategist, highlights Sun Tzu's warning that \\"there has never been a protracted war from which a country has benefited.\\"  Hart also describes the prose as embodying realism and moderation beyond that of Clausewitz, with a constant emphasis on doing the unexpected and pursuing the indirect approach.<br />Sun Tzu's wisdom presents an opportunity for enlightenment to any that peruse the book.  Students of politics, strategy or human behavior will find a wealth of knowledge within its pages.  It proves especially beneficial and timely for those policy makers and military analysts currently engaged in the war on terrorism.  The terrorists and their accomplices surely will continue trying to use the indirect approach.  Our leaders would do well to understand and apply the same principles.<br />I highly recommend this book for everyone with an interest in politics or military affairs.	2002-01-30
US	50785827	R3OOWPDS3US0XE	0671732269	466647169	Paratrooper: The Life of Gen James M Gavin	Books	5	34	34	N	N	The Best Biography of the Paratrooper Legend	This is the finest biography of the life of Jumpin' Jim Gavin, a legendary World War II leader.  The other biography is written by Bradley Biggs and lacks the thorough research of Booth &amp; Spencer's work.  Read Biggs if you need a summary (and somewhat biased rendition) of Gavin's heroic life of service to the nation.  Read this book if you want the details of Gavin's life in an impartial account - from his days as an orphan, then adopted growing up in Mount Carmel, Pennsylvania to his WWII exploits, service as Ambassador to France under President Kennedy and his time as CEO of Arthur D. Little &amp; Company.  This biography presents the uncut version of the life of James M. Gavin.<br />Many former and current paratroopers still pay homage to the memory of this great man.  Gavin is buried in the cemetery at the United States Military Academy at West Point, New York.  Each year on 6 June, his wife Jean, other family members, and members of the 82nd Airborne Division Association, both officers and enlisted, gather for a D-Day memorial to honor one of the greatest leaders of the war.  Gavin led the 505th Parachute Infantry Regiment on airborne drops into Sicily and Salerno, and later he led the entire 82nd Airborne Division on the Normandy and Market Garden jumps.  It is a fitting tribute that the impact of his legacy still lives on in the hearts of the men and women who knew him and went to war with him.  If you want to understand why his memory still inspires many of us in uniform, read this book.  (You can also get more insight into the man by reading the several books that Gavin wrote himself, like Crisis Now, Airborne Warfare, and On To Berlin.)  <br />Highly recommended for all paratroopers and anyone who interacts with military professionals.	2002-01-24
US	50785827	R1WAQTUZ97UX56	0788146629	606710224	Somalia Operations: Lessons Learned	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Good Read for Policy Makers, Peace Keepers &amp; NGO's	Kenneth Allard presents a succinct analysis of some of the challenges of operating in peace keeping deployments.  He traces lessons learned through the planning, deployment, operations and support phases of the three different Somalia missions from August 1992 to March 1994.  Relying on joint military doctrine, he compares the actual reports generated during and after the missions to the theoretical and doctrinal concepts of how operations should occur.  Although his emphasis focuses on the military aspects of the Somalia missions, it includes ideas on interactions with Non-Governmental Organizations (NGO's) like the Red Cross, coalition partners, and belligerents.  The focus on civil military operations is especially relevant to civil affairs and psychological operations professionals.  <br />Useful aspects of the book are the appendices which include a listing of humantiarian relief organizations that were in country, as well as the missions and structure of the Civil Military Operations Center (CMOC).  The book also includes charts which outline the command relationships within the different Joint Task Forces (JTF's) established.  Notably absent from Somalia Operations: Lessons Learned are footnotes and an index.  Although Allard includes a selected bibliography in appendix A, it mainly serves to direct the military leader to sources of further reading.  The lack of footnotes prevents scholars from reviewing the exact location of sources quoted within the book.  Regardless, the book admirably draws heavily from quotes of senior leaders and after action reports.<br />This is a must read for any military professional who will deploy into a peace keeping environment like the Balkans.  Also, leaders working within multinational humanitarian relief agencies and coalition forces will benefit from reviewing U.S. lessons learned in Somalia.  These lessons are bound to be repeated if we don't learn from past mistakes.  <br />Highly recommended.	2002-01-19
US	50785827	R2IQEW7892HVXT	0789411075	376970368	Dig and Dug With Daisy Trouble With Trucks (Dig & Dug with Daisy)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	5 Stars for Your Two-Year Old, 3 Stars for Most Adults	Most young kids who are interested in trucks will love Dig and Dug.  They bumble through a variety of situations with different trucks trying to get Farmer Stubble's fruit to town.  Unfortunately, Trouble with Trucks doesn't compare with toddler books like Dr. Seuss's, which parents tend to enjoy as much as their children.  As a parent, the book became tedious.  The Amazon Editor's review explains the shortfalls of the book aptly.  <br />If you have children between 18 months and 3 years old that enjoy trucks, they will probably find Dig and Dug amusing.  If you are searching for truck &amp; farm books for your toddler, you might want to consider adding this to their collection.  Reading it as a parent, the book may not engender the same silliness and fun for you as Green Eggs and Ham or other kid's classics.  But if your kids like it, why not?	2002-01-14
US	50785827	R2GJGFN334S2IN	0394800389	774620371	Fox in Socks (Beginner Books)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Classic Seuss for Children of Any Age - Better than 5 Stars	Although Amazon advertises this book for ages 4-8, my wife and I started reading this and other Seuss books to our children from 6 months on.  Always a delight, our kids would laugh at the silliness while acquiring a zest for life at the same time.  We started a great habit of reading two or three Seuss books before bed, and the kids loved them.  Soon, they would memorize many of the phrases, beginning a lifelong passion for reading.<br />Every kid should experience reading Fox in Socks while growing up.  Join the Fox in Socks as he leads Mr. Knox on a zany adventure of learning and silly rhymes.  Combine it with other fun Seuss books and your kids will sit enthralled as you turn the pages.  Highly recommended.	2002-01-14
US	50785827	RC8HRIFMCB77X	0788173278	681240153	U.S. Army Counterinsurgency and Contingency Operations Doctrine, 1860-1941	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Required Reading for the Military History Student	The U.S. Army Command &amp; General Staff College issues Birtle's text to all students (rank of major) in the Command &amp; General Staff Officer's Course.  The author works as a historian for the U.S. Army Center for Military History in Washington D.C.  His research and thoughts about contingency operations during the interwar periods provide invaluable guidance to current leaders in the Army.  The author clearly writes about the issues that affect the use of the military during times of relative peace.  He outlines cavalry duty in the American West, as well as nation building and counterinsurgency operations in Cuba, the Philippines, and Panama.  Throughout the book Birtle provides insightful commentary on issues that are just as relevant today as they were in the 19th century.  <BR> - contingency operations tend to be fought at the small unit level by Captains, Lieutenants and NCO's<BR> - many times for the participants the conflict seems more like a battle against nature than against an enemy<BR> - Army institutional training ignores counterinsurgency/ contingency operations, instead focusing on training leaders to strive to win the &quot;big&quot; battles<BR> - leaders need to understand economics, culture and politics since the military instrument may not be the dominant factor in foreign policy<BR> - and many more<br />The author cites many other factors which affect military capabilities during these operations.  Peacekeeping and enforcement missions in Bosnia, Kosovo, Somalia, and even Afghanistan exhibit similar characteristics to the types of conflicts outlined in Birtle's book.  Leaders at all levels in the Army (and Marines) today would be well served to read and study the pages of U.S. Army Counterinsurgency and Contingency Operations Doctrine 1860-1941.  This book substantiates the age old maxim that those unfamiliar with the harsh lessons of history are doomed to repeat them.  <br />Highly recommended for the military professional.	2002-01-14
US	50785827	R1O6KWA23XFWND	0394800168	328733059	Green Eggs and Ham	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Timeless Seuss Classic For Any Age	Echoing other reviewers, this book deserves more than 5 stars...my wife and I started reading this and other Seuss books to our children from 6 months on.  Always a delight, the kids would laugh at the silliness and cultivate a zest for life at the same time.  <br />We starting a great habit of reading two or three Seuss books before bed, and the kids loved them.  My wife, an elementary ed teacher, taught me the technic of starting a sentence and letting the kids finish it.  I would begin with, \\"That Sam-I-Am, that Sam-I-Am, I do not like that...\\" and our kids would respond in delight with, \\"Sam-I-Am.\\"  Soon we progressed to just flipping the pages, and the kids would tell the story!  Of course, they had the book memorized, but generating an interest in reading is the first step to learning how to read.<br />Every kid should experience this timeless classic while growing up.  Parents will enjoy reading it almost as much as children will enjoy hearing Seuss's whacky rhymes.  Combine it with other fun Seuss books, and your kids will sit enthralled as you turn the pages.  Highly recommended.	2002-01-13
US	50785827	R25IKXJ5R3KLG5	0375811354	696118215	The Foot Book	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Seuss's Book of Opposites Delights Children	Although Amazon advertises this book for ages 4-8, my wife and I started reading this and other Seuss books to our children from 6 months on.  Always a delight, the kids would laugh at the silliness while learning about opposites at the same time.  We started a great habit of reading two or three Seuss books before bed, and the kids loved them.  The Foot Book is one of the classics that every kid should get the experience of reading while growing up.  Combine it with other fun Seuss books and your kids will sit enthralled as you turn the pages.  Highly recommended.	2002-01-13
US	50785827	R236IO0VJOG3D5	0425097722	570407652	Fatherhood	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Like Hearing a Cosby Stand Up Act - Almost	I love Bill Cosby. Every time my wife and I watch the movie, Bill Cosby: Himself, we end up crying from laughter because of the humorous spin he can put on many of the frustrations and joys of parenthood. He is a master of story telling, but the book is written as if he is giving a stand up act. It doesn't provide the depth of discussion one usually expects from a book. It is very amusing, but doesn't measure up to actually seeing the man in person or watching his acts on video. For example, chapter four is titled &quot;Are They Evolution's Missing Link&quot; with a subtitle for the first section of &quot;Dr. Spock Never Promised Us a Rose Garden.&quot; This is classic Cosby humor, but the chapter is only eight pages long (for three different vignettes). Some chapters are only three pages long. The entire book is only 150 pages with lots of white space and 15 chapter title pages. I don't mind reading short books, especially fun ones like this, but you would be better off seeing his comedy on video.  That way you can get the hilarious gestures and voice inflections that only Bill Cosby can provide.<br /> This is the type of book you can give as a gift on Father's Day or for a birthday for the Dad who is hard to buy for. It is nice to open to a chapter and read for a few minutes if you need a laugh. If you haven't heard Cosby before, I highly recommend the book as a refreshing look on parenthood. If you are a Cosby fan, you will have heard all of the humor before.	2001-12-12
US	50785827	R2L3U5GSTGH4S	0684842343	691902010	Luxury Fever: Why Money Fails to Satisfy In An Era of Excess	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Thought Provoking For Social/Behavioral Science Students	As the review title indicates, students &amp; professors of economics, politics, psychology and other social &amp; behavioral sciences will benefit from perusing the pages of Bob Frank's commentary on contemporary American life.  Regardless of whether you agree with Professor Frank's solution to our society's \\"arms race of consumerism\\", the book makes the reader think about the materialism evident in much of the U.S.  Using amusing analogies to describe human behavior related to \\"buying excess,\\" Frank explains these activities with theories of psychology and economics.  His insight provokes thought and entertains the reader throughout the book.  Whether explaining why many middle class couples spend $5,000 for the latest Viking model gas grill for their patio, or describing how two millionaires childishly built larger and more lavish yachts just to own the biggest and best cruiser in the world, Frank delivers interesting examples which help provide an understanding for why many people do the things they do.  <br />Read this book if you are a student or teacher of the social or behavioral sciences.  Whether you agree with Frank's prescription to correct societal consumerism or you don't believe America has a problem, this book entertains the reader and stimulates ideas for discussion.  Well worth the read!	2001-11-21
US	50785827	R2VPHU3AC6BBZR	0060975768	502570587	We Were Soldiers Once... and Young: Ia Drang--The Battle That Changed the War in Vietnam	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Read it now before the Movie!	This is the best rendition of tactics in Vietnam and a must read for small unit leaders.  We Were Soldiers Once...And Young takes us on a journey with then Lieutenant Colonel &quot;Hal&quot; Moore and Joe Galloway, the reporter who climbed on a helicopter heading for a &quot;hot&quot; landing zone, into the Ia Drang Valley.  The North Vietnamese baited the 7th Cav into a firefight in order to determine how the U.S. would fight, and they learned quickly in the first major engagement of the war.  As the battalion commander of the 1/7 Cav, LTC Moore engages in a battle for the lives of everyone in his unit.  The lessons which Mr. Galloway and LTG (Retired) Moore illustrate in the first section of the book will drive home the need for discipline and leadership during combat.  The first section makes the book worth the read, all by itself.<br />  Fortunately, there are two other sections, equally as dramatic.  The second section lets us walk with the 2nd battalion, 7th Cavalry Division into an ambush quickly established by the NVA.  This time almost the entire unit is wiped out.  Due to poor discipline (not putting out security, letting soldiers smoke and talk on break, etc..) the 2/7 is completely surprised.  This book uniquely juxtaposes the difference in success between two similar units, with very different leadership, morale, and discipline.  The lessons are stark and vivid.<br />  The third section, titled Aftermath, describes life on the homefront - not the protests and demonstrations, but the military families waiting to hear how their soldiers are doing.  The description of Western Union hiring taxi drivers to deliver death notices is emotional.  Some wives were awakened at 4:00am in the morning and handed a yellow slip with the words, &quot;The Secretary of the Army regrets to inform you that your husband .... was killed in action, etc..&quot;  If you don't want to go to bed crying, don't read this powerful account of how coldly the institution cared for families during the Vietnam era.  My wife and I have both spent over ten years of service in the Army and found this section to be a powerful motivation for helping to care for military families.<br />  As the title of this review indicates, the movie is coming soon.  Mel Gibson will play Joe Galloway, and other famous actors will take part.  I highly recommend this account of courage, leadership, discipline, success and failure.  This book spent several weeks on the New York Times best seller list, and almost every senior leader in the Army recommends it as mandatory reading for leaders at the tactical level.  You won't be disappointed!	2001-11-07
US	50785827	R178FX92P8TOKZ	0887308856	669231024	Hidden Order: The Economics of Everyday Life	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Must Read For the Economics Student	As the title indicates, David Friedman's Hidden Order is a great supplement to any microeconomics course. Although many of the books' analogies will amuse most readers, a casual reader who does not understand microeconomics will be lost by Friedman's indifference curves and budget constraints. It seems that he has taken a typical microeconomics book and tried to make it more exciting with fun and interesting examples.<br /> If you are an economic's student, the book will help to add to the learning involved in thinking about economic issues since it uses an \\"economic naturalist\\" approach. Economic naturalism attempts to help students to \\"see\\" the principles of economics at work in every day life. Friedman uses numerous examples like babies, dating and rush hour traffic to help explain human behavior through the lens of economic thought. His analogies are often humorous and well-supported by basic theory learned in micro 101, but I found myself bored with many of the graphs that he uses to support his examples (and I have taught economics for two years to college sophomores). The book would have been much more fun if Friedman dispensed with the charts and micro jargon, assuming that the reader understands the theory. If you don't understand it, don't waste your time with this book.  The analogies will be interesting, but the supporting theory will seem tedious.<br /> But, if you are a student of economics or a professor looking for a compendium of great examples to use in class (or a supplement to the text you are using), this book holds much potential. If you have never taken an economics course, I would look for another book.	2001-11-05
US	50785827	R1KN9STVG5ZHQR	0385499345	475272008	The Lexus and the Olive Tree: Understanding Globalization	Books	4	6	8	N	N	A Compendium of Analogies for the Economics/ IR Student	As the title indicates, Tom Friedman ably places many of the complex issues in international relations and economics into easy to understand examples and analogies.  His story telling comes alive based upon his extensive experience as a foreign correspondent and journalist, and he ably describes the post Cold War international environment.  His book is a major contribution to defining how technology and globalization are shaping a new world order.  He also does an adequate job of portraying how U.S. cultural and economic influence (some would say imperialism) is impacting many cultures across the globe.<br />My one criticism of the book is the author's overkill of the use of analogies.  He continues to drive his point home in many chapters by offering several more examples to support his opinion.  Although entertaining, I became bored reading several more analogies after getting his initial point.  Otherwise, the book definitely made me think about many of the issues, which I experienced when living overseas for over three years, from a different perspective.<br />Anyone who is interested in economics, international relations, political science, or national security issues should read this book.  It provides many examples and analogies of the effects of globalization.  Well worth the read.	2001-10-30
US	50785827	R2L5059IACTFB7	023108028X	586810419	The  Top 500 Poems	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Great Gift Idea	As the review title indicates, this is a great gift idea for someone who is a nonpoet or does not teach english.  True enthusiasts who write their own poetry or actually teach it would probably desire more depth than can be accomplished in a summary compilation of the greatest poetry.  <br />  Everyone has their idea of who the greatest poets were/are, and this book is as good of a cursory review of the greatest poets and poetry that can be put together. As a result this book has 3 drawbacks for the true enthusiast.  1) as has been noted by other reviewers, it only encompasses the English poets  2) this is someone elses' decisions on the &quot;best&quot; poetry and may leave out your particular favorite poem(s) (3) no depth to some poets but gives ample space to others, for example - Shakespeare 29 poems, Walt Whitman 5 poems, Edgar Allen Poe 6, Robert Frost 11, Emily Bronte 1, Geoffrey Chaucer 1.  <br />  Given the above listed shortcomings that would apply to any attempt to aggregate the &quot;best&quot; poetry, this book does an admirable job.  As such, it makes a great gift for your favorite aunt or a bedside companion for yourself.  Just realize that if you are a Frost fanatic, you will have to seek something more comprehensive for your favorite poet.  Enjoy!	2001-10-29
US	50785827	R24HS9SWU5J7RM	0380801515	822448376	The Wrath of Grapes: The Coming Wine Industry Shakeout And How To Take Advantage Of It	Books	4	21	21	N	N	If in the Wine Industry - Read this book	As the title indicates, if you are in the wine industry (at any point along the supply chain) or if you are considering entering the industry, read this book. If you are interested in learning how to taste wine, that is not the intent of this book. Lewis writes this book as an insider on the industry and from a consultant's perspective. <br /> This book is a must read for anyone considering entering the wine business! Much of what Lewis writes could help fill out the majority of your business plan - from determining cash flows to gaining insight into the wine industry in general. Or at the least, you could use the book as a check on some of your assumptions.<br /> If however, you simply want to learn how to taste &amp; enjoy wine, you would do well to look for another book. His focus is purely from a business perspective.	2001-10-27
US	50785827	R2U3GI1EEWNV4M	081180903X	561997450	Champagne	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Great Brief by True Champagne Enthusiasts	As the title indicates, this is a quick overview of champagne.  The book is mainly filled with photos, but gives a good synopsis of how champagne is made.  It also provides some very interesting recipes made with champagne (Champagne Poached Salmon) or to accompany champagne (Grilled Nectarines with Prosciutto).  It is written by enthusiasts for someone interested in learning more about champagne (i.e. it includes basics like how to properly open a bottle and store it, as well as interesting historical facts.)<br />  If you enjoy a good glass of bubbly and would like to learn more about where champagne comes from and how to enrich your life with creative champagne ideas, this book is for you.  It is worth the read.	2001-10-27
US	50785827	RKNY12RMF0OFO	0811726649	498268993	Armed Forces Guide to Personal Financial Planning: 4th Edition	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Every Servicemember Should Be Issued This Book	The Armed Forces Guide to Personal Financial Planning is a must read for soldiers, sailors and airmen. The book begins with chapters on basic personal finance and walks through sections on buying big ticket items (cars, houses, etc..), investing, and planning for retirement. Written uniquely for service members and the different tax and pay considerations they should account for, this book is an invaluable addition to any military bookshelf. <br /> Michael Meese is the new Deputy Head of the Department of Social Sciences and former Director of Economics at West Point. Bart Keiser is also a former Director of Economics at West Point. The Social Sciences faculty is also in the process of writing the 5th Edition, which should be coming out in a few months; so if you can wait, you'll get a more current version. But if you are in the military and are considering major changes to your financial situation in the near term, this book is well worth the investment. <br /> I highly recommend this book for all service members.	2001-10-27
US	50785827	R1WCRYIIX38N5O	0700602771	408928573	America's First Battles, 1776-1965	Books	5	25	25	N	N	This Is Mandatory Reading at West Point	As the title indicates, West Point cadets are required to read this book (or at least they used to be when I was a cadet) to understand the role that first battles have played in American military history. The reason cadets are required to read this book is because the U.S. record during the first battle of most wars has been less than stellar. Citing examples like Task Force Smith in Korea and our first battle in North Africa during WWII, the authors expose flawed strategies, low training, and poor equipment. Many times the military enters a war completely unprepared because the normal cycle of demobilization after a conflict reduces the funding and attention our leaders pay to military preparedness. This is a fantastic book to read if you wish to understand the issues and constraints which military leaders and our country usually have to overcome following our first engagement. Given that our &quot;first battle&quot; in the war on terrorism has already occurred, this book could help leaders think through the issues that will be necessary to change our military readiness, as well as homeland security posture to suppress terrorism to more acceptable levels.<br />A must have for any military library. As a student of military history, I am rereading the book more than ten years later. First Battles is still as relevant today as it was in 1990.	2001-10-21
US	50785827	R3PEDRWFUZF1I	158648043X	940035790	Waging Modern War:  Bosnia, Kosovo, and the Future of Combat	Books	5	22	27	N	N	Must Read For Political &amp; Military Leaders	General (Retired) Clark writes the best account of the tensions and competing demands of senior military leaders trying to bridge the divide between politics and military operations. He also clearly explains the linkages between our national security strategy (NSS) and national military strategy (NMS). As an insider during the Dayton Peace Accords, he had the benefit of understanding the development of a NSS with regard to the Balkans. He was able to transmit his unique insights during Dayton into an effective military campaign to bolster the credibility of NATO and keep soldiers from needlessly getting injured.<br />Anyone on the staff or getting ready to assume a political office which relates to our NSS should read this book to understand the frustrations of competing demands placed on military commanders in a highly complex environment. Likewise, all future field grade officers should read and understand General Clark's insights. Given the complex nature of military engagement and the blurring of strategic, operational, and tactical realms due to new technology and the media, military leaders would do well to study this book. Warfare has changed in many substantive, as well as subtle ways. Thoughts on the subjects that General Clark exposes could save allied soldiers lives in the future.<br />This book is a great addition to any military library and those interested in strategic thinking.	2001-10-21
US	50785827	R1CJIJWMG6AE5C	0208017488	480740280	Gavin	Books	3	5	5	N	N	A Summary Appraisal of a Great Leader	Gavin, I love the man, but the book is a biased (albeit the author acknowledges his bias) and under-researched account of a complex leader.  Gavin was an orphan raised in Pennsylvania who earned an appointment to West Point after enlisting in the Army.  He rose to become the Division Commander of the 82nd Airborne Division (the youngest Brigadier General since Custer)during WWII and amassed an incredible war record.  Following the war, he rose to the rank of 3 stars before retiring amid a controversy over his testimony before the senate.  As the division commander, he fully integrated black airborne soldiers into the 82nd.  He would later become JFK's ambassador to France.  He protested the war in Vietnam and wrote several books.  <br />  If you want a more thorough account of this truly exceptional and interesting leader, read Paratrooper: the Life of James M. Gavin by T. Michael Booth, Duncan Spencer.  It is well researched and gives a more thorough representation of Gavin's life, although Mrs. Gavin claims the book gives short shrift to Gavin's time at Arthur D. Little as the CEO.<br />  If you are more interested in a cursory review of Gavin's life, then Bigg's rendition is for you.  You can read it in an evening.<br />  Airborne!	2001-07-26
US	50785827	R1JP4N0RVPYCYW	0871137380	189891237	Black Hawk Down: A Story of Modern War	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Black Hawk Down Delivers a Glimpse of Modern Urban Warfare	Black Hawk Down delivers the look and feel of the intensity of modern combat in an urban environment.  Through hundreds of interviews from both the Somali and U.S. soldier perspectives, Mark Bowden recreates the action as it happened in Mogadishu.  Experience the thoughts and fears of the pilots, the Rangers on the ground, the Delta Force commandos inside the target building, the Somalis roaming the alleys to get a taste of battle.  Move down the streets and back alleys with a squad trying desperately to secure a fallen comrade.  Drive through the maze of avenues in an armored Humvee.  Feel the panic of soldiers trapped in a gauntlet of chaos trying to support each other from becoming overwhelmed by rioting crowds of Somalis.  Fly over the buildings with pilots that possess nerves of steel, skillfully maneuvering their aircraft past anti-tank rockets and sniper fire.  Reading this book provides the same vicarious experience that the pages of We Were Soldiers Once and Young lay bare for the Vietnam conflict.  Read the following excerpt and judge for yourself.<br />&quot;Mo'alim's group first encountered Rangers at an intersection in a Humvee just south of the hotel on Hawlwadig Road.  As they crept up and fired on the Americans, a helicopter appeared and opened fire, killing the eldest of Mo'alim's squad, a portly middle-aged man they called \\"Alcohol.\\"  Mo'alim dragged Alcohol's limp body off the street, and his squad regrouped a block further south, behind the Bar Bakin Hotel. It was there they saw the first helicopter go down.  The men cheered wildly.  They continued moving and shooting, staying about two blocks away from the Rangers.  They were still south of the target building when one of Mo'alim's group knelt in the road, took aim at another Black Hawk, and fired.  The grenade hit the rear rotor and big chunks flew off in the explosion.  And then, for an instant, nothing happened....... Now everyone around him was racing south.  He ran with them, back through his own neighborhood of Hawlwadigli, a goateed veteran soldier waving his weapon and shouting, \\"Turn back! Stop! There are still men inside who can shoot!\\" Some listened to him and fell behind Mo'alim and his men.  Others ran on ahead.  Ali Hussein, who managed a pharmacy near where the helicopter crashed, saw many of his neighbors grab guns and run toward it.  He caught hold of the arm of his friend Ali Mohamed Cawale, who owned the Black Sea restaurant.  Cawale had a rifle.  Hussein grabbed him by both shoulders. \\"It's dangerous.  Don't go!\\" he shouted at him. But the smell of blood was in the air.  Cawale wrestled away from Hussein and joined the running crowd.&quot;<br /> As you can tell from the above passage, Bowden provides a balanced account of the conflict from both sides.  Thus, this book is useful for getting into the minds of the Somalis to understand a third world view of the impact of U.S intervention, in addition to feeling the thoughts and emotions of soldiers engaged in a struggle for survival.  As a result, many readers can benefit from perusing the pages of Black Hawk Down.  Young soldiers can learn about the intensity of a first battle.  Junior leaders can learn about leadership under the most extreme conditions.  Senior policy makers gain an insight into the will and desire of another people that may not welcome American influence into their country.  War story buffs just get the entertainment value of reading a gripping account of modern urban warfare.  Bowden's extensive research and interviewing creates the multi-faceted benefits of this volume.  Read it to further your own professional development.  Understand the enemy; understand your soldiers; learn about the cultures in elite units like the Rangers and Delta Force.  I highly recommend it.	2000-12-19
US	50785827	R1IJ2YKKIV5I9C	1574882074	677185511	Brave Decisions: Profiles in Courage and Character from American Military History	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Brave Decisions Goes Beyond the Battlefield	This is a great compendium of moral and ethical choices made at various stages during fifteen different officers' careers.  Colonel Maihafer outlines the uncommon courage displayed by some of the most famous and also some unheralded leaders in our military history.  From Robert E. Lee and Ulysses S. Grant to Patrick O'Rourke and Alexander Haig the author walks us through very tough decisions that shaped the lives and careers of these great men.  He couches the choices they made through the context of their personal thoughts and circumstances.  Instead of exposing the reasons why the commanders decided to commit to battle on a particular day or to wage a certain campaign, Maihafer explores questions like why did Lee decide to fight for Virginia and the Confederacy, and not the U.S. constitution he was sworn to defend before the outbreak of war.  Why did Maxwell Taylor, as Superintendent of West Point, over-ride the academic board and institute the academy's first formal class on leadership, and why did he ultimately resign as the Army Chief of Staff?  Brave Decisions explores these questions and more throughout its pages.<br />Patton once stated that an officer's career is made up of about three minutes worth of time when he or she actually makes decisions that have great impact.  This book helps illuminate a few precious seconds of the careers of fifteen courageous officers.  Any leader, whether assuming command or not, will benefit from referring to the chapters of Maihafer's book.  Cadets to general officers make various choices throughout their military careers.  Brave Decisions illustrates a few of those choices at each level of command.  From cadets deciding to resign from the academy to fight for the Confederacy to senior policy makers in Washington DC deciding to relieve a general officer, the choices outlined in the book convey the immensity of the decisions.  All leaders, junior and senior, will face choices that have grave impact for themselves, their soldiers, and their country.  Vicariously experiencing how other successful officers have considered similar situations allows us to shape our own moral concepts to better handle similar trials we may face in the two or three minutes that make up a career.  I highly recommend reading, studying, and keeping this book as a reference for the future.  All leaders, whether junior or senior, can glean valuable knowledge and forethought from scrutinizing the pages of Brave Decisions.	2000-12-19
US	50785827	R3QCCL74A6H8RR	0684802031	140093647	First Things First	Books	5	18	19	N	N	First Things First - A Philosophy for Living Life	This is a must read for professionals in any walk of life.  Covey and the Merrill's (the coauthors) promote a principle centered leadership style focusing on personal leadership.  Their philosophy is that you can't lead others unless you can lead your own life first.  The authors promote that when a person aligns his or her life with internal principles, then that person is able to focus on what's important, not what's urgent.  Why?  Because many times things become urgent due to a lack of prioritization in our lives.  The authors title the initial chapter &quot;How Many People on Their Deathbed Wish They'd Spent More Time at the Office?&quot;  Aptly describing the urgency addiction that many people face in today's hectic lifestyle, Covey and the Merrills walk through a methodology that shows how to reconnect with our core beliefs and then to live accordingly.  Not that there aren't days when you should be working long hours, but those hours should be spent on important issues that yield quality of life results.  People should not be mired in frivolous paperwork and detail that doesn't impact their life and those around them in a positive way.  Covey and the Merrills write an inspirational book that should be used as a resource to refer to time and time again.  The insight embodied in their work transcends much of the consumerism and materialistic values of modern life and reconnects us with the wisdom literature of the ages.  Anybody preparing for, or currently in, a leadership position should read this book.	2000-12-19
