US	50781946	R2CXUCNHWES8W	0312316801	931084222	Minion: A Vampire Huntress Legend	Books	5	4	6	N	Y	Beautiful Vision	Damili, which means beautiful vision, is the perfect name for the young, just coming of age, Damili Richards.  Damili, a spoken word artist as far as the world knows, it really a vampire huntress who lost both of her parents to vampires when she was a baby.  On the brink of her 21st birthday, Damili is confused about several things.  She has certain powers that have proven to help keep her safe from the time she was little, only now, for some reason, they are fading in and out.  Like bad reception.  She is afraid these failings may not only cost her her life, but one of the team that guards her, one of The Guardians.  But just like she can't understand when her powers leave, when they swing in the other direction, it is almost painful how strong they can be.  To make matters worse, Damili is on the eve of her 21st birthday, when she will come fully into her powers as one of the most important vampire slayers in a long time, and both vampires and demons are out to kill her before she can reach maturity.  Or maybe the vampire counsel has something more sinister in mind?<br />Since this was my first read in this genre, I loved it.  I have no point of reference, therefore, I'm not feeling some of the negative remarks.  I enjoyed it.  It scared the mess out of me, but I enjoyed the book and can't wait for the next installment. It read like a movie to  me, and I think I've been hearing rumors that such may be the case.  I hope so.  And be honest, from the cover, doesn't that look like it could be Jada Pinkett or Sanaa Lathan??  If it does get made into a movie, I would LOVE to see who gets what part!  L.A. Banks, just do you thang!!	2003-08-12
US	50781946	RRDYBB1L8XKRJ	0525947248	682274061	The Other Woman	Books	5	0	0	N	N	His Best Yet!!!	What is a woman supposed to think when she comes home to a sumptious meal, romantic music and some earthshattering, mind blowing sex?  Well, if she reads this book, now she will probably think her husband has been cheating on her.  She might also think that maybe he was getting ready to leave her for the other woman and changed his mind at the last moment.  Or maybe that the other woman changed HER mind.  She certainly would hope that things wouldn't end like they did in this book...<br />When the main character, known only as Freckles, finds out that the marriage she thought was trouble free is anything but, her whole world turns upside down.  There is the usual confrontation, but it is done so well, you feel as if you are in the room.  Heck, you feel like Freckles as you experience her pain and suffering and bewilderment of how it all went wrong and she missed it.  When she meets the husband of the woman who was sleeping with her husband, things really get complicated.<br />This book drew me in so quickly and totally, I became obsessed with reading it.  I was sneaking in the bathroom at work to read it.  I almost never do that.  But I had to find out what was going to happen next.  There are many twists, turns and shocking surprises.  Just when you think you have the plot figured out, EJD flips the script on you and leaves you with your jaw hanging open.  Good summer read.  Good anytime really.  My hat is off to you EJD. Enjoy it, I did!...	2003-08-12
US	50781946	R3GH3QKE6TOQ0E	1401042856	286703964	All About Me	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Reality Check!	Tamara Hightower is about as selfish as one woman can be.  She has a good job, makes excellent money, but can't keep a dime because she believes in having the best of everything for herself.  It always has been just about her, Tamara, what she wanted, needed or how it would benefit herself.  If anything or anyone got in the way, they were GONE, including her son.  Not able to handle the pressures of motherhood, Tamara hands over her son Junior into the capable hands of her first love, Sheldon and his overly domineering mama.  Then, true to form, she promptly forgets him.  Irritated beyond comprehension whenever Sheldon would call to try to get her involved in their son's life, Sheldon takes drastic matters to give Tamara a  much needed reality check.  Forced, almost overnight to take back her son, Tamara has no choice but to stop and take stock of herself and learn how to put someone else's needs before her own.<br />Natalie Darden did an excellent job with her debut novel and with the oft-negligected topic of deadbeat mothers.  I thought it was an excellent book and I thoroughly enjoyed it.  I am hoping there will be a sequel.  I would love to see what happpens AFTER!	2003-08-12
US	50781946	RQ7AWWZ38P6Y9	0743246144	147968453	Using What You Got: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Use or be Used	With her third book firmly under her belt, readers will learn that Karen Quinones Miller is absolutely here to stay!  In  \\"Using What You Got,\\" Ms. Miller uses a much gritter style of writing than previously seen in her first two books.  But the language and situations ring crystal clear and utterly true for who and where her characters are:  where they live, how they live, and where they come from.<br />In this book, we meet the overindulged, self-absorbed Tiara. Girlfriend is smooth as silk and fine as wine.  A legion in her own mind.  Just when you think this chick doesn't have one redeeming quality, we find that she is nothing short of a brainiac and sporatic bouts of random acts of kindness that has nothing to do with how it is going to benefit her.  Like everything else in her life, learning comes as easilty to Tiara as the latest pair of designer jeans or whatever she can conjole out of her father.  Men have also been easy for Tiara to acquire, whether she wanted them or not.  That is, until she meets the one that doesn't seem to be that impressed with what she has to offer.  Should she be satisfied with the man with the money, the car, the clothes and the style to give her the lifestyle she wants or will she throw it all away to get the one that got away?  Also, while it seems that Tiara and her younger sister, Jo-Jo, who loves sports almost as much as irritating Tiara, have nothing in common, we learn that when push comes to shove, Tiara is more than ready to throw down to defend and protect her baby sister.<br />Next, we also meet the handsome and very responsible Reggie, Jo-Jo and Tiara's father who has raised them almost entirely by himself when their mother runs off shortly after Jo-Jo's birth.  Reggie is the kind of man any woman would love to get her hands on.  He's an ex-boxer who is still fine and sexy as all get out.  He is assisted by his seemingly forever cranky sister, Charlene, whom everyone calls Charlie.  Charlie has her own substory and probably could carry her own book. There is a lot of unspoken, undealt with pain over an accident from when she was a teenager that forever changes how Charlie sees herself, and has clouded how she lives her life. However, through her own changes and disappointments in life, Charlie is right there to help Reggie with raising his beloved daughters.<br />Using What You Got is about what it means to be a sibling, a family, a friend and a lover.  Its about learning to love your family, even when you don't always necessarily like them, finding out who your true friends are as well as learning to be a friend, and everything that glitters is not gold.  Quinones Miller covers all the bases with this one, and she covers them well!probably could carry her own book. There is a lot of unspoken, undealt with pain over an accident from when she was a teenager that forever changes how Charlie sees herself, and has clouded how she lives her life. However, through her own changes and disappointments in life, Charlie is right there to help Reggie with raising his beloved daughters.<br />Using What You Got is about what it means to be a sibling, a family, a friend and a lover.  Its about learning to love your family, even when you don't always necessarily like them, finding out who your true friends are as well as learning to be a friend, and everything that glitters is not gold.  Quinones Miller covers all the bases with this one, and she covers them well!	2003-08-02
US	50781946	R3KOH5RMXTGLQC	0525946632	674965230	Thieves' Paradise: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	All In a Days Work . . .or Crime Never Pays	Or at least, that's what they tell you. However, for Dante, who couldn't get a job, no matter how hard he tried, falling back into his criminal life was the only thing that was paying. But everyone has their own agenda. Having a fondness for eating every now and then, Dante just wanted something to tide him over until he could get a &quot;real&quot; job. Jackson just wanted to get his [mad] ex and the court off his back. Pam was convinced that getting surgery that had nothing to do with her face was the key to making her a star. And Scamz was the leader of this band of misfits that played them all. Or did he play himself? Maybe they all played themselves in an effort to play the game.<br />This was certainly a different read for EJD. I enjoyed it alot. And while it was different, it was still classic Eric, who can turn a phrase as no other. I would love to see how this would play out as a movie. It think it would be interesting. At any rate, if you are already an EJD fan, I think you will enjoy this. But don't expect the usual fair. This is different, but no less good.	2003-05-02
US	50781946	R1L68XQ5JECBMV	0525946632	674965230	Thieves' Paradise: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	All In a Days Work . . .or Crime Never Pays	Or at least, that's what they tell you. However, for Dante, who couldn't get a job, no matter how hard he tried, falling back into his criminal life was the only thing that was paying. But everyone has their own agenda. Having a fondness for eating every now and then, Dante just wanted something to tide him over until he could get a &quot;real&quot; job. Jackson just wanted to get his [mad] ex and the court off his back. Pam was convinced that getting surgery that had nothing to do with her face was the key to making her a star. And Scamz was the leader of this band of misfits that played them all. Or did he play himself? Maybe they all played themselves in an effort to play the game.<br />This was certainly a different read for EJD. I enjoyed it alot. And while it was different, it was still classic Eric, who can turn a phrase as no other. I would love to see how this would play out as a movie. It think it would be interesting. At any rate, if you are already an EJD fan, I think you will enjoy this. But don't expect the usual fair. This is different, but no less good.	2003-05-02
US	50781946	RVGB3FFNY948N	1403324913	305223021	Pandora's Box	Books	4	2	6	N	N	Like WHOOSH!!!	Like that new antacid commercial, Pandora's Box reads like WHOOSH!!  Smooth and easy, the book reads very much like a movie.  Ms. Hobbs makes it very easy to visualize the desperation and hopelessness of the mixed bag of people forced to interact with one another in Pandora's Box.  She unflinchingly shows what it is like to find yourself in the world's oldest profession.  And while it is easy to say \\"I need the money,\\" and \\"as soon as I'm straight, I'm out,\\" it doesn't always work out that way.  Especially when the money is flowing and you've managed to get life to get that foot off your throat.  However, I did have some problems with that whole love interest thing.  While it seems unlikely that a man you meet in a whorehouse could seriously be interested in you, I guess it could happen.  And I would have like to see some resolution to the main character's angst with an oft mentioned, though never actually seen character.  Since this had a lot to do with who she was, it would have been nice to see some actual interaction between the two.  I don't want to say more. You will have to read the book to see for yourself.  All in all, though, it was a very enjoyable read.  Very smooth, fast and intriguing.  I look forward to Ms. Hobbs sophomore effort!	2003-01-09
US	50781946	RM5DNCO3TSX2X	0972299009	973493996	Anything Goes	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Move Out of the Way!!	Move out of the way, and more importantly, move your man out of the way!  Cause if Raven Ward spots him and wants him, nine will get you ten, she's going to have him.  Anything and everything goes with Raven; no holds barred.  This was a very different read for me.  I have never met such an amoral character in a book before!  However, Raven, and the situations she finds herself in will certainly keep you turning those pages trying to see what she is going to get into next, who she is going to blame and how she is going to get even.  Because beyond and above all else, whether she's wrong or right, Raven believes in getting even.  Raven laments about finding a do-right man.  When and if she finds one, the question is whether she has the sense to hold onto him or will she let petty differences and the need for vengence throw away her possibly one chance at true happiness and finally having the man of her dreams.<br />I enjoyed this book in that it was new, different and certainly a fresh perspective. If you want a fast, jaw-dropping, STEAMY, STEAMY, STEAMY read, this is the book for you!!!	2002-12-11
US	50781946	RJ5XVWKZYR0GB	0743214358	337718601	I'm Telling: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Tell Me Something	Faith and Hope. Fitting names for twin sisters who are as close as everyone always think twins are.  Or are they?  Hope would never do anything to hurt Faith, who spends most of her life trying to save Hope from herself.  Or would she?  Just how fair is Hope willing to go to make Faith prove how much she loves her?  Then there is Ms. Irene, Faith and Hope's mother who has learned to take denial to a new level.<br />When Faith tells their mother of the relationship between her live-in boyfriend,whom the twins call \\"Papa,\\" and her twin sister Hope, it is Papa she chooses to believe, not her own daughter.  From there, their lives are changed forever.<br />As a teenager, Faith meets Henry, who is every woman's dream.  And while he may have had to do a few illegal things in his young life, they were done for a reason:  to put himself and Faith through college.  Through all the things she goes through, Faith knows that no matter what, she can always depend on Henry.  Or can she?<br />This sophomore effort by Karen Miller is outstanding and I thoroughly enjoyed it.  As a book club selection, I am sure it will open up a lot of discussions about things most would rather not talk about.  There is a lot to be said about telling that which an abuser would rather you not.  More people have to realize there is more power in telling than keeping silent.  Kudos, Karen, for tackling a difficult subject.  I look forward to your next book!  YOU GO GURL!!!!!	2002-09-29
US	50781946	R2KG30FDDHZGGR	0525946632	674965230	Thieves' Paradise: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Crime Never Pays	Or at least, that's what they tell you.  However, for Dante, who couldn't get a job, no matter how hard he tried, falling back into his criminal life was the only thing that was paying.  But everyone has their own agenda.  Having a fondness for eating every now and then, Dante just wanted something to tide him over until he could get a \\"real\\" job.  Jackson just wanted to get his [mad] ex and the court off his back.  Pam was convinced that getting surgery that had nothing to do with her face was the key to making her a star.  And Scamz was the leader of this band of misfits that played them all.  Or did he play himself?  Maybe they all played themselves in an effort to play the game.<br />This was certainly a different read for EJD.  I enjoyed it alot.  And while it was different, it was still classic Eric, who can turn a phrase as no other.  I would love to see how this would play out as a movie.  It think it would be interesting.  At any rate, if you are already an EJD fan, I think you will enjoy this.  But don't expect the usual fair.  This is different, but no less good.	2002-09-29
US	50781946	R1XKPVNPWNHVXI	1585710687	933729027	Still Waters Run Deep (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Ebb and Flow of Life and Love	I read Rivers of My Soul and loved it and couldn't wait to read this sequel.  I was not disappointed.  I absolutely love Leslie Esdaile's style of writing.  It is so down to earth.  Through her writing, you could feel, relate and understand what the characters were going through.  You could feel Toni's grief on learning that a loved one would be leaving her soon, but at the same time, you almost felt your own stomach cramping as she fought to keep the tears from her voice so as not to alarm her beloved Aunt Pearline.  You felt her fear as she realized that her life was not as it should be.  You could relate as she finally snapped out of it and remembered her power and started concentrating on what she COULD do instead of what she couldn't.  You nodded your head and understood her ferocity as a mother lion protecting her cubs.  And you really understood how she felt to be all things to everyone, but at night, she was still a sensuous, giving, taking, needing, loving, sexual woman who could give as well as take and you sighed when she and Jerome took it to another level.  Yeah.  If you have ever been a woman in love, I mean REALLY in love with that one person who should have been the one by your side, no matter what, you could relate.<br />...	2002-09-29
US	50781946	R30452OL61THZG	0595207103	134274482	Majestic's Secret	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Wonderfully Written!!...	With a name like Majestic, what's a girl to do but to dream big dreams and have itchy feet? With a name like Majestic, how can you NOT want to be a star or want the world as your oyster? With a name like Majestic, how can you not love with your whole heart and soul? Majestic was those things and more. And she was only fourteen. How can a fourteen year old girl, fresh from the county, impact so many lives in so many ways? Well, I guess you'll have to read the book to find out. This book had so many plot twists and turns, it had you barely hanging on the edge of your seat. Like Betty Davis once said, \\"you better strap yourself in...it's going to be a bumpy ride!\\"<br />Majestic Secret is about a young lady, a child really, who wants to grow up too fast and learn too much too soon. When she runs away from home to follow a man she thought she was in love with, a white man at that, she soon finds that it is not him her heart has been searching for, but his son. From the minute they set eyes on each other, theirs lives are changed forever. However, Eljen has no idea how young Majectic really is, especially after she lies and claims to be older. With a beautiful face and bangin' body, he never stops to consider that her story has more holes in it than a piece of swiss cheese. However, in an effort to save Eljen from himself, she ends up telling the ultimate lie that tears them apart. Majestic may have been out of Eljen's life, but never his mind or his heart. They had been each other's destiny. He learns this to be true when Majestic's Secret is finally revealed.<br />Along the way there are colorful characters like Jimmy Smith, Majorie, Mary and Judith, all with secrets of their own.<br />Michell McGriff has written an outstanding novel with many well thought out, richly developed characters. This read will hold your attention from the first page to the end. Thankfully, this is only the first in a series of outstanding books.  Get them all!! Michelle, you have one hell of a book here! Keep up the good work. This is a book I HIGHLY recommend to anyone to read, whether you like romance, mystery or just an all around GOOD book!a book here! Keep up the good work. This is a book I HIGHLY recommend to anyone to read, whether you like romance, mystery or just an all around GOOD book!	2002-05-16
US	50781946	RJXGUD3906YWJ	0375757058	188655040	Sittin' in the Front Pew: A Novel (Strivers Row)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Is this your family?	How many times have we been involved with the funeral of a loved one?  It can be the hardest thing in the world to have to deal with.  Especially when someone decides to act out.  And that's BEFORE the actual funeral.  And guaranteed, somebody ALWAYS acts out!  Such is the case with the Naylor girls.<br />Edward Naylor was the much beloved patriach of the Naylor family.  Loved and respected by friends and coworkers alike.  He was a pillar of the community.  He was the type of father every female dreams of having, and some men feel they may never measure up to.  Especially when they want to marry a daughter of such a man.  However, what would happen to that image should a secret almost beyond compehension be revealed?  Would the daughters still think their father a man of such sterling character?  Edward Naylors four daughters are forced to deal with such a question when they must painfully deal with their father's unexpected death and plan his funeral.<br />Along with much in-house fighting, an unthinkable mystery is revealed.  How they each deal with it will surprise, anger and sadden you.<br />This is my first read by this author.  I loved this book.  The hardest part was trying to read the ending and crying at the same time!  Now for me, THAT'S a good read, when I am moved to tears, anger and empathy.  I enjoyed this book very much and would highly recommend it.	2002-04-23
US	50781946	R251XHQHPV61P	0446527297	269463589	The Millionaires	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?	Who DOESN'T want to be a millionaire?  Better yet, who would pass up a chance at getting what looks like really EASY money?  No one knows about it, the alleged owner is dead and why should Uncle Sam get more money when somebody who really needs it could make better use of it?  Why not indeed?<br />Oliver's better instincts are telling him that if it looks to be too good to be true, it probably is.  However, his brother Charlie and their friend Shep, convinces him otherwise.  And what looked like the dream of a lifetime quickly spirals out of control into Charlie and Oliver's worst nightmare.  They quickly find out that nothing and no one is what or who they seem.  They also learn that the only people they can depend on is each other.  Forget about the money.  They just want to get out of the mess they have found themselves in with their LIVES.<br />This was a great book that read like a movie.  I found that I could not turn the pages fast enough.  Having never read anything by this author before, I had no complaints at all, unlike some of the other reviews I've seen here.  However, I can't wait to read his other books.  If they are even better than this one, as some have said, I know that I will enjoy them as much, if not more, than this one.  In any event, I would urge anyone looking for a fun, fast-paced beach read to take this book on vacation with them.  This is a GREAT book to sweep you away!	2002-04-17
US	50781946	R17CY8LJ823KLI	0971004900	713610035	Until Death Do Us Part!	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An Enduring Love	We all dream of finding our soul mate, the one person who makes us complete.  We dream of having our own flourishing business, a beautiful child and a beautiful home in a great area to live happily ever after.  But what happens when that dream is shattered?  How can a man who thought his life was just about as perfect as it could get loses the most important person in his life?  Well, that is exactly what Noah has to learn how to do.  When his wife is senselessly murdered, Noah is wild with grief and a burning need to know WHY.  In his quest to answer that one question that haunts his dreams, he picks up some unlikely help.  Help such as the beautiful Micah who is more questions than answers. Can she tempt Noah out of his grief? And Bishop, an intelligent street thug who has scores to settle himself.<br />This book was an enjoyable ride to see what would happen next.  I enjoyed it from beginning to end.  I can't wait to see what this dynamic trio will be doing next in Mr. Simpson's next novel.  I would recommend this book for an easy, enjoyable read.	2002-03-27
US	50781946	R2KM09QMWC5KUR	1585710598	352389952	Rivers Of The Soul (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Get Swept Away with the Flow...!	Is it true that your first, REAL love is your only love? Well, maybe not for everyone, but that certain was the case for Jerome and Toni.<br />Toni is still reeling from a bad divorce and a husband who didn't have a clue what the word 'respect' means. After doing everything she possibly could to keep her marriage together, Toni has been forced to throw in the towel and call it quits. When she returns to her roots in Philly, she finds that more has changed than just her marital status. Friends who she thought she could count on suddenly get funky on her. If not her homegirls then their husbands. A single woman among married ones tend to 'kick up a lot of dust,' and unreasonably, some of her friends seem to be seized more by fear than sympathy.<br />On Jerome's end of town, things are rapidly going from bad to worse. Again, here is another person with a spouse who doesn't know, nor wants to know the meaning of respect. Jerome has realized for a long time his marriage is over, but for the sake of his children, he is determined to stick it out. When that no longer becomes an option, he learns some hard and fast rules about friendship and making it on your own. He also learns that angels can come in the most unexpected forms, and that sometimes, it is okay to let someone help you.<br />When Toni and Jerome reconnect, it is all they can think about. However, Jerome is convinced that his blue collar living will never be good enough for Toni's business accomplishments. Toni is convinced that no longer being the slim-goody she was when she and Jerome were together, there is no way he would or could, ever want to be with her. Waiting for these two to wake up and smell the coffee is wonderfully nerve-wracking. Through their separate journeys to a new awareness of self and others, Toni and Jerome learn some valuable lessons in life, friendships, family and love.<br />I enjoyed every minute of this book. While there is some drama, it is quiet drama; realistic, everyday living, drama. One of the things that I most appreciated about this book is that Ms. Esdaile shows that you don't have to be a perfect size 8 to find love and that not every man is LOOKING for a perfect size 8. Some men find a fuller woman sexy and yes, BEAUTIFUL. WAY TO GO MS. ESDAILE!!! Ms. Esdaile develops her characters so believably, flaws and all, that you feel like you know these people. You care about them. This book brought a tear or two or three to my eyes. I can't wait to read the sequel, which I understand is due out [sometime}...this year. I look forward to reading some of her other works. If they are anything like this, I am sure I will enjoy every one of them!rama. One of the things that I most appreciated about this book is that Ms. Esdaile shows that you don't have to be a perfect size 8 to find love and that not every man is LOOKING for a perfect size 8. Some men find a fuller woman sexy and yes, BEAUTIFUL. WAY TO GO MS. ESDAILE!!! Ms. Esdaile develops her characters so believably, flaws and all, that you feel like you know these people. You care about them. This book brought a tear or two or three to my eyes. I can't wait to read the sequel, which I understand is due out [sometime}...this year. I look forward to reading some of her other works. If they are anything like this, I am sure I will enjoy every one of them!	2002-02-22
US	50781946	R1KCTVEABLWHRM	0452282209	418423294	Sugar: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	This SUGAR ain't always so sweet	The first three words, \\"Jude is dead.\\" wrap themselves around your mind and subtly, but completely pull you in.<br />Pearl and Joe Taylor's lives will never be the same with the death of their daughter Jude.  Pearl, who has never gotten over the horrific death of her only daughter, has merely existed for 15 years.  That is, until Sugar moves next door at #10 Grove Street, Bigelow, Arkansas.<br />Sugar's unexpected, shocking appearance, right through the middle of town, sets tongues to wagging. She's too sexy, her dresses are too tight, her lips too full. The women hate her on site.  The men can't wait to meet her.  Without her saying one words, the town turns their backs on her.  Everyone has something bad to say about Sugar.  Everyone but Pearl.  Sugar, however, could care less about what they have to say.  She knows she is what she is, and has long since accepted that this is her lot in life.  There is no light at the end of her tunnel. Or is it?<br />The first time Pearl sees Sugar, she is convinced that she is seeing the ghost of her dead daughter Jude.  Almost.  There are subtle differences, but not enough for Pearl to care.  Over time, the two women forge a friendship and an unbreakable bond that no one can understand.  Pearl teaches Sugar that maybe she can be a better woman and Sugar teaches Pearl that it is okay to BE a woman.<br />Just when it seems that Sugar has found a place to call home and Pearl may be able to finally put the past to rest, evil and violence again visits Grove Street.<br />Bernice McFadden's prose is lyrical, shocking and wonderful.  It is hard to believe that this was her first novel and I'm really mad at myself for having taken so long to read it.  I HIGHLY recommend this book, as well as the sequel, This Bitter Earth.  If you read this one, you MUST read the other.  Many of the questions raised in Sugar are answered in This Bitter Earth.  I know without a doubt, that these two books are on my list as all time favorites.  I am recommending them both to anyone who will listen!  LOLcommending them both to anyone who will listen!  LOL	2002-02-07
US	50781946	R1VSR2G8L785M1	0525946365	673219676	This Bitter Earth	Books	5	9	9	N	N	FANTASTIC!	&quot;This Bitter Earth&quot; picks up almost right where &quot;Sugar&quot; ends.  Considering I have finished both books in the same week, I'm going to try to not get them confused!!<br />If you read &quot;Sugar,&quot; then you MUST read TBE.  TBE explains many things that occurred in &quot;Sugar.&quot;<br />Sugar Lacey has been running from or ignoring the truth about her life for more years than she'd like to remember.  However, the time has come, she realizes, to turn around and face those truths that she has been running from.  To do that, she must go back to the beginning and places she thought she had long since left behind her.  When Sugar returns to Short Junction and the house where she was raised, she learns some shocking secrets.  From Short Junction, her journey to discovery leads her back to St. Louis.  What she finds there is enough to tempt her to run again, but she stays for a while in an effort to help a young girl who can no longer help herself.  Sugar decides to return to Bigelow as part of her plan to save the girl who doesn't want anyone's help.  In the process, Sugar, who sometimes feels that she is walking on just this side of madness, may finally find the peace she has always craved but felt she never deserved.<br />Ms. McFadden has written a book that so completely draws you in, that I highly recommend reading it on a weekend when you can sit down and not have to worry about getting up until you are finished.  Like a fine wine that lingers on the tongue, long after it is gone, so will this story linger in your mind.  I was blown completely away with this book.  Having to interrupt my reading by something as mundane as going to work frustrated me to no end.  And while I couldn't wait to finish the book, I was saddened when I did.  I wanted to know what happened AFTER.  You'll have to read it yourself to find out what the AFTER is!  LOL<br />My hat is off to you, Ms. McFadden.  You are a writer's writer.  Your use of imagery, language and plot is just outstanding.  I have now read every book you have written and I can't wait to read your next book!lot is just outstanding.  I have now read every book you have written and I can't wait to read your next book!	2002-02-07
US	50781946	R1Y1WS2GR8Q6MF	0060184760	251599419	The Justus Girls	Books	5	2	2	N	N	What a WINNER!!!!!!	I just finished this book today, and all I can say is \\"WHEW!!!\\" What a fantastic read!<br />Family means everything, and family doesn't always have to be those people who you were born and raised with.  Such is the case with the 'Justus Girls.'  Sally Mae (Mustang Sally), Jan, Rasheeda (aka, Rachel, aka Roach) and Peaches were the Justus Girls.  Growing up on the mean streets of Philadelphia, they banded together in grade school and stayed friends until they were grown.  As with a lot of friendships, they drifted apart, but when one of their own is killed they band back together again, without missing a beat.<br />In the time they have been apart, their lives have taken many surprising twists and turns, some good, some not so good.  At the time of their mutual friend's death, all of them have some heavy baggage that they are dealing with.  However, like in the days of old, they find that what seems impossible to overcome alone, is so much easier to deal with together.<br />This novel is about friendship, love, sisterhood and making a family where you find it.  Ms. Lambright has done a brilliant job bringing these characters to life.  If you are from Philly, in your 40s or 50s, AND grew up in SW or West Philly, you HAVE to read this book.  If you are not from Philly, in your 40s or 50s, but just want a sho 'nuff GOOD read, then you STILL have to read this book.  And when you find out who the killer is, you'll be as shocked as I was!!!  LOL  Well done, Ms. Lambright, well done.  I eagerly await your next book.	2002-01-20
US	50781946	R3MKL31CX0QFW8	0312272995	634013686	Rhythms: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Feel the Rhythms	Picture it:  Rudell, Mississippi, 1927.  Cora Harvey, blessed with an incredible voice, that has only been used to give praise to God, has no home and no parents after they are tragically killed.  She is left with nothing but a dream.  A dream to see something more in the world than the narrow, segregated confines of Rudell.  Nothing that is, except a man who loves her more than life itself.  A man who loves her enough to let her go to pursue her dreams of making it big in Chicago.<br />Cora, however, is like a fish out of water on the mean streets of Chi-town.  After a vicious and horrific encounter with her white employer, Cora returns to Rudell, and David, wanting to do nothing more than to put the horrible past behind her.  Fate, however, decides to play a cruel trick on not only Cora, but her daughter Emma as well.<br />Emma, who has been blessed or cursed, depending on how you choose to look at it, to look nothing like her mother or her people.  Deciding to 'cross-over' Emma leaves everything she has ever known in too-small, too narrow-minded Rudell to make it in New York, hoping to never been scorned for looking 'different.'  There, after meeting the man of HER dreams, she also fights to forget her painful past.  That is, until it also rears its head, in the form of her daughter, whom she practically drops on her mother's doorstep.  Emma's been to the other side of the mountain and is determined to stay there, even at her daughter's expense.  She doesn't even stick around long enough to give her child a name.<br />Parris, so named by her grandmother Cora, heals many wounds for Cora and David.  Parris has also been blessed with her grandmother's incredible voice and restless feet, and unknowingly follows her mother's footstep by moving to New York. There she meets the man who could be her one and only, except he's got some skeltons of his own rattlin' 'round the closet.  However, just when she is poised to fulfill those dreams not only for herself but also for her grandmother, events call her back home to Rudell.  What she learns there could change her life forever.<br />Donna Hill has written a wonderful book with richly drawn characters.  Her descriptions of Rudell will have you almost tasting the dust in the air, swatting the gnats away from your face and smelling some of that great down home cooking!  It will make you smile and wish for a small community that knows everybody (and their business) but when needed, they are there for one another.  I enjoyed this book from cover to cover, and would highly recommend it to anyone looking for a book that shows strength, wisdom and courage!her grandmother, events call her back home to Rudell.  What she learns there could change her life forever.<br />Donna Hill has written a wonderful book with richly drawn characters.  Her descriptions of Rudell will have you almost tasting the dust in the air, swatting the gnats away from your face and smelling some of that great down home cooking!  It will make you smile and wish for a small community that knows everybody (and their business) but when needed, they are there for one another.  I enjoyed this book from cover to cover, and would highly recommend it to anyone looking for a book that shows strength, wisdom and courage!	2002-01-13
US	50781946	R1A8LN9IGUR9I6	1583142444	335269241	Midnight Magic (Arabesque)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Magical!	Elise and Garrett, after 17 years of marriage are a couple that I am sure many can identify with.  Sometimes it is not big, dramatic things that can do a marriage in, but the small, little things.  Things about the other person that work your last nerve, but you've come to accept, ignore, but don't forget.  And like a piece of sand that worries the oyster, it just grows and grows until you finally have to deal with it.<br />Such was the case with Elise and Garrett.  Most couples, after 17 years of marriage complain that their sex lives have gotten stale and predictable.  Not the case with Elise and Garrett.  Things had always been fine in the bedroom.  It was OUT of the bedroom that they had problems.  Things that they should have been able to freely share with each other, became secrets that they could NOT share with one another.  However, when they go on a holiday trip, both realize that things have escalated much too out of control and for the sake of their marriage, SOMETHING must be done.<br />While I did not agree with Elise's  method of giving Garrett a wake up call, I understood her decision and the plot still kept me turning the pages to find out how they would resolve their conflict.  Ms. Savoy did an excellent job of showing an ordinary marriage with ordinary problems.  How does one save a basically good marriage that has gone awry?  With secondary characters and island descriptions that added just enough flavor to keep you intrigued, Midnight Magic was a wonderful, easy read that at times made you laugh out loud, shake your head and keep turning the pages to see what would happen next.<br />Good job Dee!!!  I look forward to reading your other novels and future novels.  These are real folks with real issues and real ways of solving those issues.  I highly recommend this read to romance as well as general fiction readers.	2001-12-28
US	50781946	R2DVFDCCLTJ7B7	0967460123	233782726	Shame on It All Publisher: Strebor Books	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Shameless!!	The Whitfield sisters, Harmony, Bryce and Lucky were something else!!  These sisters might fight and squabble amoung themselves, but when the chips were down, they most definately had each other's backs.  The thing that I really got from this book was the overriding theme of LOYALTY.  They were loyal to themselved, each other and to their friends.  And they didn't take (...)from ANYONE!  These were not women you wanted to mess with.  LOL  Cause they truly believed in the big payback!<br />Zane has done a wonderful job of creating a fast moving, easy to read story that will keep you glued to the book.  With a couple of surprise twists in there, you'll have a couple of mouth hanging open, 'no she didn't!' moments.<br />All in all, I would highly recommend this very entertaining and enjoyable read!	2001-12-09
US	50781946	R2W7PDHJ1SS3K7	1575666960	604535976	Married Men	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Saying &quot;I Do&quot; doesn't always mean you will!	This is the first book I have read by this author, but I don't think it will be the last!  I couldn't keep my head out of this book!  Hated to see it end, but I'm glad it did...maybe now I can take my butt to bed!!  LOL<br />And they say women trip with each other as friends.  Well, if this book is any indication, so do men.  The brothers in this book went at with each other and the women in their lives, just we women do.  I enjoyed reading that.  It was nice to read a book about marriage from the man's perspective.<br />Some people have taken issue with the way the women were portrayed in this book.  Honestly, I didn't because we all know men AND women like the characters in this book.  The men:  one steady, one playa, one mama's boy and one henpecked.  The women:  one a gold-digging skeezer, one bigmouth, and two who were kind of normal, but each with their own issues.  When you have a group of eight people who mix and mingle all the time, there is going to be some drama.  And this book had drama, drama, DRAMA!!!  LOL  This book would make a bomb-diggity movie too!  But the thing I liked the best about this, no matter what, the men in this story were there for each other, even when they were mad as hell at each other.  Same for the women.  Some who I didn't even think liked each other that well seemed to band together when necessary.<br />I think Carl Weber showed a realistic view of marriage from a perspective you don't get to hear from a lot; the husbands.  I found the characters wonderfully flawed and wonderfully human.  Very well developed.  I enjoyed this read very much and I look forward to reading not only his first book, but the next one as well.  Obviously, owning a bookstore has taught him a thing or two about writing a book as well as selling one!	2001-11-30
US	50781946	R3SUN0EX90236W	0595193633	933887420	Rested Memories: The Majestic Series	Books	5	1	1	N	N	And the Beat Goes On...	What a wonderful follow up to &quot;Majestic Secret&quot;!  Rested Memories picks up where Majestic leaves off.  Jimmy is still the wheelin', dealin' producer and musician, and Destiny is happy to be running his club and finally able to do something with her life besides sit around and look cute.  Their lives couldn't be more perfect.  Except the one thing Destiny wants Jimmy doesn't even want to discuss.  However, just when you think you know someone, someone else or something can reveal things you would never have imagined.  Jimmy and Destiny's lives seemed to be perfect.  That is until the past reared its ugly head.  Situations Jimmy never wanted to be in suddenly seem to be hitting him left and right.<br />Devon, Destiny's twin brother, is blowing up as a musician and doesn't have a clue.  He has put some painful events in his life behind him and is dedicated to his craft and his wife and family.  However, an innocent incident brings the past back with terrifying clarity.<br />Devon and Destiny's father thinks he has finally found the woman of his dreams.  But apparently someone from her past refuses to leave things in the past.<br />Once again, Michelle McGriff sweeps the reader up in the lives of Devon, Destiny, Jimmy, Eljen and Tearza.  Anyone who has read Majestic just HAS to read Rested Memories.  And even then, after you've read the last page, you will still be left wanting MORE!  Excellent job Michelle.  Always leave 'em wanting more!!  I enjoyed this book very much and look forward to more books from this very talented writer.	2001-11-06
US	50781946	RZF780WC6U998	0595130720	703420365	Majestic Secret: A Romance Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Majestic Destiny!!	With a name like Majestic, what's a girl to do but to dream big dreams and have itchy feet?  With a name like Majestic, how can you NOT want to be a star or want the world as your oyster?  With a name like Majestic, how can you not love with your whole heart and soul?  Majestic was those things and more.  And she was only fourteen.  How can a fourteen year old girl, fresh from the county, impact so many lives in so many ways?  Well, I guess you'll have to read the book to find out.  This book had so many plot twists and turns, it had you barely hanging on the edge of your seat.  Like Betty Davis once said, &quot;you better strap yourself in...it's going to be a bumpy ride!&quot;<br />Majestic Secret is about a young lady, a child really, who wants to grow up too fast and learn too much too soon.  When she runs away from home to follow a man she thought she was in love with, a white man at that, she soon finds that it is not him her heart has been searching for, but his son.  From the minute they set eyes on each other, theirs lives are changed forever.  However, Eljen has no idea how young Majectic really is, especially after she lies and claims to be older.  With a beautiful face and bangin' body, he never stops to consider that her story has more holes in it than a piece of swiss cheese.  However, in an effort to save Eljen from himself, she ends up telling the ultimate lie that tears them apart.  Majestic may have been out of Eljen's life, but never his mind or his heart.  They had been each other's destiny.  He learns this to be true when Majestic's Secret is finally revealed.<br />Along the way there are colorful characters like Jimmy Smith, Majorie, Mary and Judith, all with secrets of their own.<br />Michell McGriff has written an outstanding novel with many well thought out, richly developed characters.  This read will hold your attention from the first page to the end.  I literally did not want it to end. There are some wonderful jaw-dropping surpises and zingers too!! Thankfully, there is a follow up to this book called &quot;Rested Memories.&quot;  I look forward to finding out what happens to all of the characters I came to love, hate, laugh and cry with!  Michelle, you have one hell of a book here!  Keep up the good work.  This is a book I HIGHLY recommend to anyone to read, whether you like romance, mystery or just an all around GOOD book!ingers too!! Thankfully, there is a follow up to this book called &quot;Rested Memories.&quot;  I look forward to finding out what happens to all of the characters I came to love, hate, laugh and cry with!  Michelle, you have one hell of a book here!  Keep up the good work.  This is a book I HIGHLY recommend to anyone to read, whether you like romance, mystery or just an all around GOOD book!	2001-11-03
US	50781946	R3AQ9SN1S3XC54	096746014X	957662051	Daughter by Spirit	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Spiritually Speaking	Christian was the type of man every woman seeks:  kind, loving, compassionate and sexy as all get out.  Maiya knew a good thing when she saw it.  Unfortunately, after a bit of a struggle, so did Tanya.  Maiya was also too good of a friend to try to take what she knew could never be hers.  However, that didn't stop her from raising her daughter to believe that a man that she had never been intimate with was her father.  Her intentions were good:  what was the point in letting her daughter know what a heinous man her real father was when she had such a sterling example of manhood to use instead.  And that is what she did.  Angelina grows up strong, confident, certain of her love for a man she has never met.  But we all know that lies told in the dark eventually come to light.  And the best intentions mean nothing when the person they were meant to protect ends up hurt anyway.  When Angelina eventually learns the truth, will she be able to handle it?  And will she ever trust her mother again, even though she has not always been so forthright herself?<br />V. Anthony Rivers writes a story that we don't usually get the pleasure of reading.  A story that shows a man who values friendship, love and positive living, without apology.  He also shows how we must be careful how we live our lives because you never know how much what you say and do can influence someone else's life.  Additionally, he teaches the meaning of true, lasting, heartfelt friendship.  I would highly recommend this book to all who want to experience a different type of read from the perspective of a truly sensitive man!	2001-10-26
US	50781946	RY5N0I3URC5BR	0967460174	880046587	Addicted	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fun with More than One!	What's a girl to do when hubby just ain't cuttin' it in the sheets?  So you've got the dreamboat husband, the fabulous house, beautiful kids, and your own thriving business.  Sistah-gurl has got it going on!  Life, as she knows it should be perfect. At least it looks that way to everyone on the outside looking in. WRONG!!  What starts as a dalliance with one lover quickly grows to dalliances with three, each fulfilling a different need.  But see, the only person Zoe wants to fill that need is her husband Jason and he's just not listening to what she's trying to tell him.  How can you deal with someone else's issues when your are not dealing with your own?<br />Finally, in desperation, Zoe seeks the help of a therapist, she wonders if its too late to save her troubled marriage.  As Zoe fights desperately to keep her live from crumbling in shambles around her, secrets she would never have believed start coming at her from all fronts.<br />Soon, however, just as Zoe thinks she getting on solid footing from the slippery path she's been following, once again things go awry when one of her ex-lovers seems to be trying to kill her.<br />Addicted is as different from the Sex Chronicles as night and day. On the surface it seems that it is a book that is simply about a woman addicted to sex.  Again, WRONG.  It is about so much more than just that. It brings into focus the importance of people dealing honestly with each other, and that when things get beyond your control, it's okay to seek the help of a professional.  For too long, therapy has been seen as a stigma and that we should deal with our problems on our own, the best way we know how.  Well sometimes it doesn't work like that.  Good job Zane for telling one hell of a story!!!  I would highly recommend this book to anyone looking for something new, fresh and different.  It's a book you won't soon forget.	2001-10-18
US	50781946	R3KFN9J13WD2AI	0595151051	447183608	For Love's Sake	Books	5	5	5	N	N	WHAT A GREAT READ!!!	This was a different kind of read.  I so enjoyed this book!  Qiana Pattterson is hearing her biological clock ticking, LOUDLY, and decides that the rasta-wanna-be that she's been living with for three years is anything but daddy material.  So deciding to take matters into her own hands, she finds an alternative way to find a solution to her problem.  The only thing she doesn't count on is one Nygel Godwins. Nygel never wanted to be anybody's daddy.  Why he chose to donate to a sperm bank is anyone's guess.  With an ice-princess for a girlfriend, it was no wonder he had problems committing.  However, when the sperm bank makes a horrible mistake, things change forever for Qiana, Nygel and the ice princess, Sherry, who has some secrets of her own. In the vein of true love stories, they both fight valiantly against the inevitable.  However, when the fake rasta literally rips their world apart, it seems that things will never be the same for Qiana and Nygel.  Ms. McGriff weaves such a wonderfully tender love story that you will find yourself smiling and nodding sagely as you experience these two unlikely lovers fall in love.  With a nice twist, you will gasp in dismay and shock, but in the end, enjoy a most satisfactory end to this unique and moving story.  My only regret is that the story wasn't long enough.  I know that Michelle has done other sequels for other books.  I would love to see one for this one.  If not about Qiana and Nigel, but about Terrell and Rita.  Now there was a story waiting to be told!  Way to go Michelle!!  I very much look forward to reading your other books.	2001-10-11
US	50781946	R15SCRV7IYCKE5	0375756604	357219704	Pipe Dream: A Novel (Strivers Row)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	OH MY GOODNESS...WHAT A BOOK!!!!	I'm STILL trying to come back from the reading ride of a lifetime!  This book is good on so many different levels that I don't know where to start, but I'll try anyway.<br />The book opens with two pipers, Leroy and Black, working on various schemes to get money for that next hit.  Meantime, at a crack house, the politician Johnny Podres, who is known to be incorruptable, and a possible mayoral candidate is shot to death.  What was he doing there?  And did the crack addicts, who only wanted to rob him, kill him, or was it someone else that only one person THINKS he may have seen?  And how do two addicts, Leroy and Black, end up getting blamed for the killing when they weren't even there at the time? And if the police are so sure that Black, Leroy and maybe even Leroy's girl, Pookie, killed Podres, why are other people dropping like flies?  Sucked into this whole horrible mess is Black's lady friend, Clarrise, a respected nurse...and a crack addict. Suddenly, these four are on the run for their lives.  What happens once they all hook up is jaw-dropping, heart-stopping scenes that read like a movie.  This book should be a movie, it is just that good.<br />Mr. Jones does an outstanding job of putting human faces on those that society would like to condemn, ignore and eliminate.  He makes you feel something as you learn how each of them, Black, Leroy, Pookie and Clarrise ended up as helpless slaves to the pipe.  He makes you feel what it is like to have it all, lose it and learn how to survive on the mean streets, that just happen to be Philadelphia, but could be any city in this country.<br />Once again, I pulled an all-nighter to finish this book.  This time I was up until 4:00 in the morning.  And even after I finished the last page, the characters followed me into my dreams.  This is a story that you will not soon forget.  Mr. Jones' writing is so tight, so searingly honest, that I believe that we will be hearing alot from this very talented man.  His book touched my heart, made me think  and kept me spellbound.  BUY THIS BOOK!!!  And Hollywood, this MUST be made into a movie!  My only regret was that the book ended and that I can't give it more stars!  WAY TO GO, SOLOMON JONES!!!!my heart, made me think  and kept me spellbound.  BUY THIS BOOK!!!  And Hollywood, this MUST be made into a movie!  My only regret was that the book ended and that I can't give it more stars!  WAY TO GO, SOLOMON JONES!!!!	2001-09-23
US	50781946	R172MVIW1H5CT6	0759612528	623057262	10 Minutes Past Too Late	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Tick Tock, Stop the Clock!	Great job, nice home, nice ride.  What more could a woman as for?  Lisa Munroe has it going on!  Or does she?  Not only does she have all of those things going for her, she's got a man to die for.  Or does she?  When the new lawyer, Mike, a handsome New York attorney starts working at Lisa's office, sparks fly.  Lisa would never consider messing around with a co-worker.  Or would she?  Read the book to find out.  Lisa's got some issues and it was interesting to see how she handled them.  At times, you almost wished you could shake her, or at the very least, smack her.  LOL  But Ms. Malone has created characters that are fresh, believable and identifiable.  With many surprising twists and turns, this book will keep you spellbound waiting to see what will happen next.  Buy the book, you'll enjoy the read!	2001-09-17
US	50781946	RYB1JCKCZ13LI	0970010281	142547594	And on the Eighth Day She Rested	Books	5	28	28	N	Y	BRAVO!! EXCELLENT! FANTASTIC BOOK!!!	I am sure I could probably think of some more superlatives, but I'll stop. This is a first book? It didn't read like one. Ms. Mason has developed a character in Ruth that I am sure many women will identify with. Even if they are not in a physically abusive relationship, they will be able to identify with Ruth's feelings of self-doubt, uncertainty and worthlessness. There are so many ways that people, men in particular, can mess with a woman's head. In Ruth, we go with her, step by painful step, as she learns to do something she had never done: learn to love herself. Ruth was, however, blessed to have some wonderful friends in her life. Bernie was a card! She was fierce in her determination to be the only person considered as Ruth's best friend. Clara was every woman's mother. Warm, nurturing, supportive. You can't help but to love her. Then there was May who seemed so together and to have it all, but was dealing with her own issues of insecurity. Finally, there was Sharon, who like Ruth, had been through the fires of hell at the hands of an abusive husband, and sheer force of will, made it to the other side. I loved the women in this book. They became like old friends and it was great to see them get mad at each other and then make up as REAL friends do. As for Eric, I wished I could have reached through the pages and killed his psychotic a** myself! Then there was Adrian, who seemed like God's gift and in may ways was. I was sooooo disappointed in him! But you'll have to read the book to see if he redeems himself. And then there was Maxwell. LOL!! Sometimes we all need a Maxwell to get a little &quot;energized!&quot; Ms. Mason, you have written a truly wonderful book. I can see why it is getting so much attention. I read the excerpt, immediately ordered it and once I started reading it, couldn't put it down. Your character development is wonderful!  They practically dance off the pages.  I urge anyone and everyone to run out and get this book! And don't lend it out, you might not get it back!, you might not get it back!	2001-09-16
US	50781946	R176F7PL17G5LX	0759612528	623057262	10 Minutes Past Too Late	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Tick...Tick...Tick..TO LATE!!!	Or is she?  Read the book to find out how one woman can purposely find a way to ruin a relationship that most women would KILL for.  Lisa Munroe had it goin' on.  Heart-stopping beautiful, intelligent, good job and a fantastic man.  A man who only lived to please her, wanted to marry her and have a family.  Sounds perfect?  But see, that was the problem.  Lisa didn't think she deserved perfect, so she had to find a way to mess it up.  Having a handsome, rich co-worker didn't help.  What starts off as a battle of wills turns into something else altogether.  It also doesn't help when said man, Mike, wants Lisa and doesn't mind ruining her life to have her.  However, no one can see how decisions made in the heat of a moment and things that can happen in the blink of an eye can rip not only their lives, but others lives as well, apart.  And then there's that thing call CONSEQUENCES and learning to deal with and live with them.  Lisa learns, almost too late, the mistake of not thinking things through more clearly.  Lisa is also so sure that no matter what, her man, Darnel will always take her back, but every man, no matter how nice, has his limits.  Too late, Lisa realizes that she just may have pushed him too far.<br />&quot;10 Minutes Past Too Late&quot; was an interesting read, especially for a first time writer.  Ms. Malone weaves a story that is intriguing, contemporary and fast paced.  You will definately find yourself asking what would you do in certain situations.  I think anyone who reads this will enjoy it!	2001-09-08
US	50781946	R2JP9IBLNS72QW	1893652335	273187613	Almost Out Of Love	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Almost Out of Everything!!	Almost out of love, time, patience, life!! This book has a little of everything. The main character Renee is a very successful psychologist with a florishing practice, a beatiful home and...a husband who ignores her. Caught up in his own need to be as successful or better, he can't see that his wife, who can help everyone else, can't help herself or their marriage. When she meets handsome Deek, a self-assured, sensitive, YOUNGER, police officer after a break-in at her home, life suddenly looks a little more interesting. Then there is Renee's patient, Veda Simms, who has practically destroyed her own life in the pursuit of a man who could care less about her. How she finally comes to that realization and what she does about it will have you on the edge of your seat. I do not usually read murder mystery books. However, I found this one hard to put down. I mean staying up to two in the morning trying to finish hard to put down. Ms. Phaire has done a wonderful job of weaving a story that draws you in and keeps you guessing right up to when the real murderer is revealed. Also, by the books end, your opinion of Bill, Renee's husband may give you pause and you realize that he may not be exactly what you thought he was. I enjoyed this book very much and can't wait to see what Ms. Phaire comes up with next. I thought the characters were very well described and easy to imagine. However, there was one very clever twist that I won't reveal, other than to say it was a real jaw-dropper!! Way to go Dorothy!! I would also love to know what happens next for Renee, Deek and her husband, Bill. I would highly recommend this book for anyone who likes mysteries, and even those that don't, but appreciate an intelligent read.	2001-08-26
US	50781946	R3AG9G39AZNVRG	0970862032	883480457	My Brother's Keeper	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Am I My Brother's Keeper?	Apparently Aja thought so.<br />The first few pages alone will just suck you right on it.  You are left trying to pick your jaw up as you almost get a paper cut trying to turn the pages fast enough!<br />This was a story, as others have said before me, of the tragedy of domestic abuse, how it can not only destroy the life of the one being abused, but the children too.  It was a story of just how hard it is to break the cycle of abuse, no matter how much you tell yourself that you are not going to be like the abuser.  Aja felt it was her duty, because she did nothing the night of the ultimate degree of abuse to her mother, that now she had to give up her life to make it up to her brother and sister.  Wrongly, she felt that it was her punishment to sacrafice her own happiness in order to make sure they could be happy.  Her sister was really beyond her help, and in his own way, so was her brother.<br />When she meets the incredibly handsome Charles, she can't believe that some one as handsome, successful and loving could want her and she risks sabatoging herself.  The character of Aja could have worked your nerves, but the way Ms. Billingsley wrote her, she didn't.  You could understand her motives and reasons for some of the things she did.<br />For a first time novelist, I think Ms. Billingsley did an outstanding job of drawing you into her story and becoming involved with her characters.  All the threads were beautifully woven together at the end and you are left fulfill and satisfied.<br />I am sure we will be hearing alot more from this talented author!	2001-08-15
US	50781946	R7L9YBD0EYO23	0439148928	272430170	Shades of Black: A Celebration of Our Children	Books	5	34	34	N	Y	What a beautiful book!	I LOVE this book.  I bought it for my grandchildren who are 8,4, and 2.  All are different shades of brown with the same mother and father.  I wanted to give them something that will teach them that no matter how light, dark or in-between they may be, they are ALL beautiful.  Not only to me, but to each other.  This book is so beautifully laid out and encompasses all the wonderful shades and hues we come in.  The authors are to be commended for including EVERYBODY's color.  While books celebrating our beautiful brown babies are to be commended, are our lighter-skinned ones to be forgotten?  I don't think so, and obviously, neither did these authors.  Thank you so much!  Here is a book all three of my grandchildren can read together and all identify with.	2001-08-05
US	50781946	RI2BT18OBXRKU	0687006503	905228132	Colors Come from God . . . Just Like Me!	Books	4	41	42	N	Y	Pretty Colors	I bought this book for my two youngest grandchildren who are 2 and 4.  My daughter said that they loved it.  There is so much out there to destroy a child's self-esteem, that it is nice to find a book that will affirm it for them.  I hope they get years of enjoyment from this book.	2001-08-05
US	50781946	R3VJV2BUK6KFSG	0967460182	762963312	The Sex Chronicles : Shattering the Myth	Books	5	77	84	N	N	Is it hot in here or is it just ME????	Turn up the air conditioning and PLEASE have a man on standby!!  Whew!  The visual pictures this book evokes is nothing compared to the feelings it stirs up!  Girlfriend, you are to be commended for putting it out there and going where no one has really had the nerve to go, and tastefully at that.  I have never been a short story person, preferring the evolution of the characters and storyline in novels.  However, each story was so well rounded, it was like small doses of chocolate.  Just right and hits the spot, even though you know you're not suppose to be having it at all.  I can't wait to read Addicted and Shame On It All.  If the short stories are that good, I can only imagine that one concentrated story will be off da hook!  For anyone who feels they have gotten into a rut cause you've been married or together for so long that sex has become routine, then you NEED this book.  Trust me.  It'll open up a whole avenue of new ideas!!  LOL  Zane, keep of the good work.	2001-08-05
US	50781946	R2KD9MWIOIJ9QP	034542896X	23634506	Hot Johnny (and the Women Who Loved Him)	Books	2	2	5	N	N	I really tried...	I really tried to like this novel.  More importantly, I tried to finish it.  No matter how hard I tried, I just could not get through it.  I only gave it two stars because I liked the first chapter at first, but by the end of it, I was starting to get a feeling of dread.  Maybe it was the topic of female genitalia mutilation, maybe not.  But whatever it was, I just didn't get it.  Maybe there were just too many voices, views and opinions, all by women, about one man.  No matter how many I heard, I didn't feel that I was any closer to knowing who Johnny really was.  Sighhhh.  Sorry, y'all, but I just couldn't get with it!	2001-06-23
US	50781946	RESEY48QKSO7Y	0525945644	657856375	The Warmest December	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Too cold for words!	I just finished reading this book this morning.  I closed the cover and then I cried.  I wasn't sure if I could have been as forgiving as Kenzie was.  Even after getting a better understanding of the cycle of violence that Hy-Lo had spawned from, I don't know.  This novel evoked such vivid imagery and misery, it was at times, very difficult to get through.  I found myself holding my breath, gasping in shock and shaking my head in dismay.  It was an intensely sad book and as much as I almost didn't want to finish it, I felt compelled to do so.  I would love to see a sequal to this book to find out what happens next with Kenzie and her mother.  How do they ever reconcile and repair their smashed and shattered lives.  I would recommend this book with a warning that it is not for the faint of heart.  I wouuld warn that this book will move you to tears and maybe depress you and haunt your dreams. But the characters and story will live with you for a long time as well as the lessons of human strength in face of overwhelming odds.	2001-06-22
US	50781946	R2D79TNIK6KQAV	0525945644	657856375	The Warmest December	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Too cold for words!	I just finished reading this book this morning.  I closed the cover and then I cried.  I wasn't sure if I could have been as forgiving as Kenzie was.  Even after getting a better understanding of the cycle of violence that Hy-Lo had spawned from, I don't know.  This novel evoked such vivid imagery and misery, it was at times, very difficult to get through.  I found myself holding my breath, gasping in shock and shaking my head in dismay.  It was an intensely sad book and as much as I almost didn't want to finish it, I felt compelled to do so.  I would love to see a sequal to this book to find out what happens next with Kenzie and her mother.  How do they ever reconcile and repair their smashed and shattered lives.  I would recommend this book with a warning that it is not for the faint of heart.  I wouuld warn that this book will move you to tears and maybe depress you and haunt your dreams. But the characters and story will live with you for a long time as well as the lessons of human strength in face of overwhelming odds.	2001-06-22
US	50781946	RRP7IW0A8JKH8	0870679945	580417317	Whoreson	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Sad but probably true	Or maybe I should have called it everything you ever wanted to know about pimpin' but was afraid to know!  This character never had a chance, with a name like that.  At least he didn't think so, being raised by a mother who was a prostitute who only wanted him to be a pimp.  All in all, it was an interesting, jaw-dropping, head shaking read.  If you want down and gritty, this is it, although not as gritty as Dopefiend.  Now THAT book was just scary!	2001-04-18
US	50781946	R25UEWRABJW4TI	0380803046	887291986	Ain't Nobody's Business If I Do	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Mind your own business!	What an excellent book!  This was my first time reading one of her books, had never even heard of her mystery books.  Not my genre of reading.  This book, however, held my attention from page one.  At the beginning, you wonder how bad Eva could be to make her husband just up and leave in the middle of the night.  She doesn't seem like she would be a very likable character.  As the book progresses, however, you learn to know and even like Eva.  The same goes for Hutch.  You can even understand how the situations happened as they did for Eva and Isaiah, Hutch and Raye.  Donald, Raye's husband, deserved everything she did to him.  Talk about the world's biggest dog!  Eva's relationships with her father and daughter were also nicely told.  Being a mother, I could totally understand how the child that you have loved and cared for can be the one to hurt you the most.  I could also relate as to how hard it can be to finally realize they are grown and have to live, learn and make their own mistakes.  By and large, I really enjoyed this book and would highly recommend it to others to read.	2001-04-11
US	50781946	R1JKEIAD2U04CR	0380400308	742404906	Love Wild and Fair	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Hot n' WILD	This book was incredible!  Cat and the Earl almost make you burn your fingers they are so hot together!  This was one of Ms. Small's best.  Any true fan of hers will enjoy this one.  As will all of her books, the story swepts you from country to country and a lot of political and religious manipulations and intrigue.  Through her books, I have learned a lot of history, which I've found to be true answering trivia and game show questions!  LOL  Anyway, lessons aside, all of her books are always enjoyable and always take you on a whirlwind ride.	2001-04-06
US	50781946	R36R4FOA2WB47E	0671537458	407122674	Waiting to Exhale	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Breathe in...Breathe OUT!	I liked this book.  Better than the movie.  I felt the movie didn't address the issues each woman had with her mother.  Part of the fun of this novel was comparing the characters with somebody you know, or trying to figure out who was the most like you.  I really felt for Bernadine.  What her husband tried to do was about as low as you can get.  The shame is that there are so many men out there like that, who, even though it may be over between them and the ex-wife, no longer give a hoot about providing for their children either.  How they can treat a child they helped to create like garbage is beyond me.  Savannah and Robin where both a trip.  They felt like they had to have a certain type of man to define themselves.  The character that I liked the best was Gloria.  Maybe because she wasn't a size six, and seemed more real and down to earth to me.  Actually, I think a whole book could have been done just about Gloria and what went on in the hair salon!  I would absolutely say to read the book, even if you saw the movie.  You'll like the read better.	2001-04-04
US	50781946	R3MGUUAX1U4QT3	0345334736	404218505	All the Sweet Tomorrows	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Sweetest taboo!	Like all of Ms. Small's books in this series, this one is a winner!  Skye never ceases to amaze me.  This woman would make a great friend, or a fierce enemy!  She battled two queens and still came out a winner.  If you like any of Ms. Small's books, you will surely like this one also.	2001-04-04
US	50781946	RAW996X5EIOVE	0451197410	52230657	How Stella Got Her Groove Back	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Groovin'	This was not one of her best books.  I definately liked the movie more than I did the book.  When I first started reading it, that whole stream of consciousness thing got on my nerves.  Then the way she constantly berated herself over and over and over and over and over (annoying, isn't it?  That's how it was in the book)got on my nerves.  Out of all of her books, I found this one the most difficult to read.  However, it did have its moments.  But as I said, the movie was better.	2001-04-04
US	50781946	R3A5F6AB2YHYW0	0671872001	831608724	Disappearing Acts	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great book!	I remember when I bought this book years ago.  I opened it in the car and couldn't stop!  This book really pulls you into the story.  I recently saw the movie and felt that they did a credable job of capturing the essence of the novel.  Zora and Franklin really went through and put themselves through a lot of changes.  Some of it was necessary, but some was not.  As I've said in another review, if you've only seen the movie, do yourself a favor and read the book.  This is the one that put Terry's name on the map.  It's also the one that opened a WHOLE LOTTA doors for other AA writers.  For that, I say to Terry:  thanks girl, for not just opening the door, but kicking that sucker in!  Next to A Day Late and A Dollar Short, I think this is one of her BEST!	2001-04-04
US	50781946	R46EH14WMP3OQ	0870679953	56560904	Dopefiend	Books	5	34	35	N	Y	Scary	Whoa.  This is truly one DEEEEEEP book.  If The Coldest Winter, by Sistah Souljah shows you how the dealers and their families live large (until caught) then this book shows you the effects of using.  And I mean down and dirty, in horrifying graphic detail the author tells how a junkie shoots up.  What it feels like not to have a fix, how they lie, cheat and steal to get that next fix.  I won't lie, this book scared the hell out of me!  And anyone who knows somebody who might be even REMOTELY tempted to try that most devastating drug of all, herion, then they should read this book.  You'll be afraid to take an asprin!	2001-04-04
US	50781946	R36T3LQN2C1ZZB	0345346831	248791982	Captive Passions	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Captured my Attention!	I read this book so many years ago, I don't even want to think about it!  Talk about HOT! HOT! HOT!  As with all of Fern Michael's romance novels, they just suck  you in from page 1.  If  you haven't read any from this series, get them.  Buy them all at one time because when you finish one, you will immediately want to pick up the  next one!	2001-04-01
US	50781946	R1QUHJUIIYQJ9U	0345323645	237942112	Skye O'Malley	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Heavenly Skye!	I read this book many years ago when it first came out.  After reading a lot of the reviews I'm ready to read it again.  Skye was one of the best romance characters that I have ever read.  But then, I have long loved Beatrice Small and her books.  They are simply the BEST!  I think I need to round up the series (you know I have them all!) and just read them from the first to the last!  For anyone romance readers, you MUST add this and all of Ms. Smalls' books to your reading list.  Trust me, you WILL NOT be disappointed!	2001-04-01
US	50781946	R18F3IAQCZ2PUI	0688050212	702071806	My House	Books	5	3	4	N	N	'Cause it's MY HOUSE!	That's right!  And what I do in it is my business!  Tell 'em girlfriend!  LOL  I loved this collection as well.  So much so, I keep a volume next to my bed to browse through every now and again.  She's got some real gems in here.  A few of my all time favorties are My House, of course, but I also love Winter Poem, The World is Not A Pleasant Place to Be and The Butterfly.  Enjoy!!	2001-04-01
US	50781946	R2IRSH6RC98B4	0446607649	850041190	Blue Collar Blues	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Bluesin'	When I bought this book, I had no idea that this was Terry's sister.  They certainly have different styles of writing.  From other reviews or other books, I see she has a huge following.  Maybe I need to read one of her other books.  This one was okay, but I found it difficult to like, let alone care, for the main character.  It has some very good parts to it, but the details about the auto industry just bored me to death.  I suppose for those who live and work it, it was right on point.  For those of us in the rest of the country, it was like okay, okay, okay, can we get back to the story at hand?  However, it did have some nice twist near the end of the book.	2001-04-01
US	50781946	R1ZQMO104VBQ8T	0380007789	856556145	The Wolf and the Dove	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The Wolf, the Dove and ME!!	Can I tell ya how much I loved this book?  Well, to begin with, I named my dog Wulfgar, and I think I've read this book about six or seven times.  I LOVE THIS BOOK.  I have always enjoyed all of this authors books.  She is one of my absolute favorite romance writers and always will be!	2001-04-01
US	50781946	R332ECK412OAV5	0380385880	75448761	Shanna	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Another all-time favorite!	I think I've read this one also six times, along with The Wolf and the Dove and The Flame and the Flower.  I have read all of these over 20 years ago, yet they still maintain their appeal.  My best friend and I loved this book so much, when she got pregnant, guess what we named her daughter?  What else, Shanna.  Her husband never got a voice in the vote!  LOL  Now she's a freshman in college and I told her she has GOT to read this book!  I would recommend this book to anyone, romance reader or not.  Roarke has got to be one of the sexiest characters I have ever had the pleasure to read.  But then as I've said before, like Beatrice Small, I will ALWAYS read a Kathleen Woodiwiss novel, even though I am into a different genre of reading now.  Every now and then, you need a good romance novel.	2001-04-01
US	50781946	R3Q59SV1ZVG8FB	0446519723	17564972	Where the Heart Is: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Heartfelt Story!	One of my ALL time favorite books.  I loved this story.  Here was a character who couldn't catch a break!  From the moment she gets abandoned at the Walmart, you start pulling for her.  It was a delight to watch her blossom throughout the story.  I read this book almost two years ago, and I still smile whenever I think of it.  I have recommended this book to countless people, even accosting people in the bookstore to get them to read it!	2001-04-01
US	50781946	R39GXUXY0OG5OA	038079487X	311612619	What Looks Like Crazy on an Ordinary Day (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Crazy as a Fox!	I liked this book.  I usually don't buy thin books because I have found that character and storyline development is usually woefully sacrificed.  Not so the case here.  This one really draws you into the story.  I found myself nodding my head and even laughing out loud at some of Ava's sharp and witty remarks. I don't know if I'd call it a must read, but it's pretty damn close.  There are a lot of heavy topics and situations in this book, however, it is balanced with quite a bit of humor and optimism.  Get it, read it, you'll be pleasantly surprised.	2001-04-01
US	50781946	RYWO1RGNLTTZN	0821756761	533694930	Dear Emily	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Dynamic Emily!	I have been a fan of Fern Michaels from WAY back, when she was doing romance novels.  This book was fantastic!  Emily might have felt bad for what happened to her rotten husband, but I didn't!  I felt that he got exactly what he deserved.  This book showed how easily it can be for a woman to lose herself in her husbands world and lose sight of herself.  When they walk away, you are left with &quot;what do I do now&quot; and &quot;who am I&quot; kind of thing.  This book showed how one woman put herself and her life back together again, one step at a time.  Once you meet Emily, you won't soon forget her!	2001-04-01
US	50781946	R10KKHLHRR3CP7	0671025368	758176148	The Coldest Winter Ever	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Turn the Heat Up, its COLD in here!	This sistah is DEEP!!!  Talk about a front row seat into the underbelly of drug dealing, fast living and consequences.  This book holds you spellbound right from the start.  Winter, however, it really not a very likable character.  Her whole world revolves around her.  The only other person she truly seems to care about is her father, whom she adores.  But then he did treat her, her mother and sisters like ghetto royalty.  This novel showed how easy it is to get caught up.  It also showed how people with little or no money always seem to be so caught up in labels, not for the sake of quality, but because they want to be perceived as having the best of everything when they should know better.  Its no wonder some of us can't get anywhere because we are too concerned with stylin' and profilin' instead of investing into a solid foundation, not just for today, but tomorrow.  Anyway, for anyone who has ever wondered what really goes down in the ghetto, generally, and a drug dealers life, specifically, this is the book to read.  You will find your jaw dropping on more than a few occasions!	2001-04-01
US	50781946	R1ZSVK6BLDAXOP	0743204786	885388260	The Maintenance Man: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Think I Need a TUNEUP!	LOL!  Seriously, though, this was a great, fast read.  I enjoyed it, although found it to be a little unbelievable.  However, there probably are a whole lot of maintenance men out there.  And although they may  not be as blatant about it as the main character in this book, they exist.  You know them, the boyfriend who is always begging you for money, or never seems to be around when you need them, that bootie call in the middle of the night, etc.  And trust me, one way or another you are going to pay!  However, it was enjoyable to discover that the main character did have more than just one talent and sometimes, in spite of yourself, you find yourself pulling for him.  I would recommend this book if you want some laugh out loud moments or as I said, a fast, funny read.	2001-04-01
US	50781946	RLQJISHG7FXE0	0440223768	931158029	Please Please Please	Books	3	5	6	N	Y	PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE...Give me a Break!	I have never met a more disagreeable character in all my years of reading!  Babysister was just an awful person!  How Deborah ever thought she was a friend is beyond me.  How she had ANY friends is beyond me.  The tragedy is that she learned at three years old how to become a manipulator.  It was a shame that she lost her mother, but she also lost herself.  She never learned that she can't have everything she wants in life, and that was her spineless father's fault.  It was also his fault that there was so much animosity between his children.  However, the book did serve its purpose in  making you want to keep reading, if nothing else, to see if Babysister was ever going to get hers.  The bad news is that it just wasn't as severe or as satisfying as it should have been.  By the end of the book, I was hoping she would have been annihilated!  We all know a Babysister, and most of us have learned to watch your back AND your man around her! If you haven't, LAWD A'MERCY!!!!  LOL	2001-03-31
US	50781946	R2KVNTDMP14GS1	0446609110	355622692	Read Between the Lies	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Read between the Lies OR How to WATCH YOUR BACK!!	I read this book a few months ago.  I did a review, but it never showed up!  Anyway, I was rather surprised that some of the main characters were white and the black characters were relegated to an almost 'also appearing' role.  However, the character Gabrielle, with the reading disability was really very good and I found myself pulling for her.  Stephanie was really despicable and somebody should have slapped her at the beginning of the book.  I can't believe she deceived all of the those people for so long.  Sooner or later, one of the ladies she worked for should have seen SOMETHING in her face to figure out how she really felt about them. Felicia's husband Trace was a waste of her time and I can't believe she had to think twice when it came to choosing him or Lexis.  All in all, it is an engrossing read the eventually pulls you in and you can't wait to see how it will all end.  And even though some of the white characters got a little too much play, I still would recommend this book to others to read.	2001-03-31
US	50781946	R1Z5QZLVOHMDL5	0525945350	378168929	Good Peoples	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good Effort!	I think Marcus Majors just may have something here!  I thought this book was very well written and very entertaining.  Here was different kind of brother.  I'm sure there are more out there like Myles who wears his heart on his sleeve, but they sure are hard to find!  Marissa was like most women who SAY they want a good man, but when they get one, don't know what to do with them or think them less than a man because he doesn't swagger, talk much stuff or put them through the drama.  They just aren't 'bad' enough.  But as she found out, that can wear a little thin.  All in all, I enjoyed this book alot.  It would be nice to have a sequel to see what happens next, and maybe spotlight one of the other couples in the book.  A 'prequel' about Amir would be the bomb!	2001-03-26
US	50781946	R2E2J4CWPICX93	0684871440	830045435	Blind Ambitions: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An Ambitious Story!	Okay, so this time I was up until 2:45 a.m. trying to finish!  Overall, I thought the book was pretty good.  Somebody in another review said they figured out halfway through the story who had the baby and by whom.  I guess I'm a little dense cause I didn't know until the very end!  LOL  Anyway, I thought it was a nice, entertaining fast read.  However, I was a little disappointed that Meredith didn't get more of a comeuppance.  And the character Devin just kind of fizzled away.  His character had the potential to become a very dangerous one, one that could have impacted other characters lives more and would have added a little more spice.  What would have been a nice twist was to find out that Devin was the one who had fathered the baby!  Now that would have been interesting.  LOL!  However, this book has made me want to check out her other novels and I would recommend it to friends and family to read.	2001-03-10
US	50781946	R23OTU3ELE85DU	0670896764	838594392	A Day Late and a Dollar Short	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Day and A Dollar	Now THIS was a good book!  I stayed up until 3:30 in the moring to finish this book.  I think this is the absolute BEST book Ms. McMillan has EVER written.  Mama and Disappearing were good, but by far, this is the best.  It is written with such honesty, realism and humor, you can't help but to be drawn into the story.  However, the angry and sad parts are just as powerful.  By the end of this book, I had to keep stopping to wipe my eyes (it's a little hard to read when you're crying).  Anyone with family issues, and with at least ONE sibling needs to read this book.  You know these people.  Either in your own immediate family, extended family or your friend's family.  Whatever the case may be, you know them and they really touch you.  You may even recognize shades of yourself in a character or two!  I don't want to give any of the story away, but I do want to urge any- and everyone to please read it!  Viola, the mother, was a card.  I liked how the story began in the voice of one parent and ended in the voice of the other.  Also, reading the story in the voices of all the characters, chapter by alternating chapter, was a great way to get an insight into this family's dynamics.  After reading this book, I am sure it will make a lot of people look at the dynamics that exist in their own families.  What the four kids went through after an event involving Viola, I could totally understand, having gone through the same thing myself.  That feeling of unfinished business and not being ready, no matter how old you are, to stand on your own two feet without your mother's guidance and being forced to reevalute life in general and your life in particular.  The learning that in a blink of an eye, everything that is safe and comforting can change, whether you're ready for it or not.  Oh yeah!  This book truly touched me.  Had me nodding, smiling, laughing out loud, sniffling and sometimes downright crying.  In closing, I want to say to Terry:  Thank you for this extraordinary piece of work!  Girl, you got it right this time.  THIS is the Terry we had come to love and respect.  Waiting to Exhale and Stella, while being pretty good, can't begin to compare to this.  Thank you for a job, and a story, very well done!ece of work!  Girl, you got it right this time.  THIS is the Terry we had come to love and respect.  Waiting to Exhale and Stella, while being pretty good, can't begin to compare to this.  Thank you for a job, and a story, very well done!	2001-03-04
US	50781946	RM46RXO96359U	0525944834	75400210	Liar's Game	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Keep 'em comin' EJD!!!	Sighhhhh!!!  Can this man make a sentence sing or what?  If he plays his woman like he does with words...WHEW! LOL.  Anyway, I thought this was a really good book.  It was a bit slow at first, but then, it really hooked me.  I stayed up until 2:00 in the morning to finish it.  The main characters, Dana and Vince, were both almost irrepairably damaged.  They both had skeletons in closets already filled to busting!  When Vince finally pulled his out, it looked like it was the death durge for their relationship.  However, I think Dana had a lot of nerve getting on the high and mighty when she had a pretty big one herself.  The gay neighbors were an interesting twist.  I also liked that this book was written in just the two main character's voices, instead of everybody's.  That can get a little confusing sometimes.  However, EJD always draws you so completely into a story, you wonder what's happening even when you're not reading it and have to remind yourself that they are characters in a book, not actual people.  But he fleshes them out so completely, you just know you know somebody like that.  As I've always said, keep up the excellent work, EJD, and I will always buy whatever you put out!	2001-02-11
US	50781946	R1H9L7HAC6HXR	0375503404	658864060	When All Hell Breaks Loose: A Novel	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Well......	It was okay.  It had its moments.  His friends were jerks who couldn't buy a clue.  His mother had her reasons for leaving her family, which his father understood, but somebody should have clued the kids in a long time ago.  Their lives may have taken a different direction.  As for the girlfriend?  Please.  She couldn't be honest with herself, how could she be honest with him?  It was an okay book.  I think I would have like it better wiithout a couple of his jerk friends.  It made you wonder why he was even friends with them.  Of course, I haven't told anyone they just HAD to run out and get it.  I wished I had borrowed it rather than bought it.	2001-02-03
US	50781946	R52U6DXL7UI69	0451199472	560440850	Sheer Necessity	Books	3	1	3	N	Y	I kept wondering why	...I bought this book because it was a Blackboard Bestseller and the entire time I was reading it, I kept wondering why.  It was okay, really slow, though.  It took me more than two months to finish it and I usually breeze through a book in a week or less.  There was nothing to make me want to read it and to keep reading it.  I thought the  main character was too judgemental and snooty.  Everybody was always wrong but her.  She always knew was was right for everyone else, but didn't have a clue for herself.  There was a seemingly good man interested, but she blew him off and then lamented that she didn't have a meaningful relationship with any man other than her loser ex-husband.  Her daughter was too fresh for words, and she was too indulgent.  Anyway, as I said, I kept looking at the cover and wondered why it was considered a Blackboard Bestseller.  I guess I must have missed something.  I just didn't get what was so great about it.	2001-02-01
US	50781946	R3FNJOYVP8BO5S	0966618904	55411609	Written in Red Ink	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Well Damn!	This was a really interesting book.  By the end, all I could say was &quot;Well, Damn!&quot;  Many of us have issues with our mothers.  However, the main characte in this book, Emily, takes it to a whole different level.  In Chapter One, when she rushes to the hospital, despite her misgivings, to see about her mother and her mother spits on her, it was on!  I just had to find out why her mother hated her so much.  In the end, I was spellbound as I flew threw the pages when she finally found out why.  That aside, it was also interesting to read about what was going on with her daughter and her awakening sexuality and how Emily dealt with that.  It just showed how sneaky teenagers can be, and who we, as parents, may not always know what is going on with them.  All in all, this is a book I would recommend anyone to read.  There is something for everyone that they can relate too, and I thank my sister-friend who gave it to me as a Christmas present, complete with being signed by the author!  There were a few issues I felt could have been better resolved, but all in all,it was a satisfying read.  You go girl!  I can't wait to read her next book, &quot;Broken Beyond Repair.&quot;  I hope it includes some of the characters in this book.  Here is an author that I would read again and again to see if future efforts were as good or better, than her first.	2001-01-24
US	50781946	R1IXVGO5T8IWLT	0967602815	172051742	Yo Yo Love	Books	5	1	1	N	N	You Go Girl!	I recently finished this book.  I found it to be very entertaining.  I think that whether you are 20something or older, you can relate.  This book shows what young women today are going through.  One of the things I liked best about the book was Kayla's strong message of higher education.  Quite a few of the characters where college students.  However, it also showed how easy it is to be seduced not by just sweet words, but the almighty dollar.  Putting up with the bull for the money, in the end, cost you more than you originally anticipated.  But for most of us, we've all been there, done that.  In the end, this book showed that it doesn't matter whether you are 20, 30, 40 or older, we all want that one special someone to get us through the night and beyond.  Women need to read this book to see what NOT to put up with and men need to read it to see how selfish they can be.  I think for this being this young lady's first effort, it showed tremendous promise.  Like EJD may have welll been the voice of the late 90's, Daaimah S. Poole may well be the new voice of this century!  YOU GO GIRL!!!	2000-11-07
US	50781946	R1ZA5CD66SS4WI	0312963130	758712635	Tryin' to Sleep in the Bed You Made (Trying to Sleep in the Bed You Made)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	I LOVED IT!	I read this book a couple of years ago when it first came out.  I loved it.  I found it to be a real page turner.  I couldn't wait to see what was going to happen next.  I think it showed, at least a little bit, what its like for a woman to put her career first and hit such highs and have no love, as in Pat's case, or to put everything in a man to have all the material things in life and be rendered so low, as in Gayle's case.  I might have been a little partial to this book since one of the main character's name was not only the same as mine, but spelled the same, which you don't see often.  I really liked this book and found it to be very entertaining and have been really looking forward to another book by this duo.  I also thought this book would make a great movie.  I mean, how many times have we been forced to sleep in that bed we made?  Sometimes its as smooth as 300 count sheets.  And other times, most times, it can be as lumpy as hell.	2000-09-23
US	50781946	RY5BAXE4461ZK	052594463X	254044331	All of Me: A Voluptuous Tale	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Really close to home!	I just finished this book a couple of days ago.  At times, I wanted to  just break down and cry.  I received this book as a birthday present from a  close friend who had the author sign the book for me.  When I first started  it, I told  my friend I wasn't sure if I would be able to finish it.  That  is was it hitting way too close to home.  Like Serpentine, I have struggled  with my weight my entire life.  Also like Serpentine, I have come across  pictures of myself in high school and have wondered what the hell was wrong  with me.  I was built and didn't even know it.  But, again, like  Serpentine, because I was a size 11 and not a size 6, I thought I was fat.  What I wouldn't give to be a size 11 again! For any woman who has ever felt  lost, unworthy, guilty, ashamed or angry with herself because she's not  what America says is beautiful, PLEASE read this book.  Thank God I have a  husband who tells me on a daily basis what a beautiful woman I am and  still, it took me years to believe it.  Thank you Ms. Berry for giving  fuller figured women a strong, albeit sometimes unsure, voice!  Also, I am  sure that there are many women who have grappled with whether or not to end  it all, even if weight was not the issue.  This book also deals with that  and how Serpentine overcame those feelings and learned that life, even with  all its ups and downs, can still be worth living.  Ms. Berry dealt with two  very strong issues that we usually try to sweep under the carpet.  She's  taken them out and made us look at them in all the ugliness and she makes  you deal with things you might not ordinarily want to think about.  As I  said, there were a few times when it was all I could do not to just break  down and cry.  There were times when I had to put the book down and walk  away, but I always came back because I wanted to see what would happen  next!  Now THAT'S a good book!	2000-09-07
US	50781946	RJ2G7LWQGLIKE	0684872919	375424987	For the Love of Money : A Novel	Books	2	1	1	N	N	It was a present, okay?	Yes, it was a birthday present from my daughter, so I HAD to read it.  She's the sensitive type and I didn't want to hurt her feelings.  However,  I DID ask her, &quot;Didn't you read the reviews on Amazon.com? &quot;  She's never on the computer long enough too, what with three kids.  Anyway,  I read it, and although the absolutely SCARY reviews from Amazon were  swirling in my head, it wasn't as bad as I thought it would be.  However, I  couldn't be too mad at her.  She's the one who bought me my first Eric  Jerome Dickey book and for that I shall be forever grateful.  Love EJD!  And speaking of scary, Tracy is TOTALLY scary!  I mean I'm all for self  confidence and all, but damn!  This chick takes self-absorbtion and  self-confidence to a whole new level.  An unrealistic one.  However, there  were some good parts to it, but the italics drove me out of my mind.  Additionally, speaking of EJD, it was quite a surprise to see his name come  up in the book.  Nice of Omar to give him some props.  He also mentioned  Jill Scott, who's CD is off the hook!  Anyway, I'm convinced that the best  book Omar has written was Single Mom, although in all fairness, I haven't  read Sweet St. Louis.  At this point, I don't think I want to, unless it's  a paperback and I can get it REALLY cheap.	2000-08-30
US	50781946	RMNSCNH5TM6AC	0525943862	858784351	Cheaters	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	APPLAUSE, APPLAUSE!	You've done it again Mr. Dickey!  This book was very good.  I enjoyed it, and it makes a great vacation read.  I have become a devoted fan.  I thought the characters in this book had some serious issues.  I would love  to see a sequel, or at least a book featuring Tammy and Darnell.  That was  a total surprise.  But I could see how he would be drawn to a woman like  Tammy when he had a woman like Dawn at home.  She gave her husband  absolutely NO support for his dreams and wishes at all.  It really showed  that people should have a LOT of conversation befor they say those &quot;I  Do's!&quot;  Jake was a flake.  He gave new definition to the word  &quot;dog&quot; and I don't blame Charlotte for leaving him.  And poor  Stephan was a victim of his father's legacy.  Karen, however, had some  SERIOUS issues with her, not to mention her toy 'Victor'.  Interesting for  a man to write about that.  That one called for one of those things that  make you go 'hhhhhmmmmmm!' Chante really had to learn how to value herself  as a person. All in all, I enjoyed this book very much.  However, some of  the characters were a little hard to warm up to. However, I am looking  forward to reading EJD's newest effort, &quot;Liar's Game,&quot; and  anything else he may write.  I have a select group of writers that I buy  whatever they have out and I think Mr. Dickey has moved onto that list!  If  you haven't read any of this author's books, buy a couple at a time because  when you finish one, you will want to immediately pick up another one.  They are like those potatoe chip ads, you can't read just one!	2000-07-16
US	50781946	R29EVR58RKN5QR	0451188039	551105176	Friends and Lovers	Books	5	18	19	N	Y	EXCELLENT!	I just finished reading this book, and I was sorry to see it end.  This is a hard book to put down.  I found myself turning down lunch out with co-workers so I wouldn't lose my reading time.  I loved Debra and Leonard.  What happened with them was a total surprise.  I kept trying to think what  comedian he may have been based on.  Shelby kind of worked my nerves a  little bit.  But it was obvious that she and Tyrel were meant for each  other.  I wanted to punch Richard out myself!  It's almost hard to see why  Shelby would have even considered a man like him at all.  Anyway, I totally  enjoyed this book, as well as Mr. Dickey's other two that I have read, Milk  In My Coffee and Sister, Sister.  I swear that man must have been raised by  a house full of women.  He writes his female characters as a woman would.  I found myself checking the back cover a few times to make sure it was a  MAN who had written it.  I think he is going to be a SERIOUS voice in black  writing.  His books are fast-paced, based in reality, and as I said,  excellent reads!  Keep up the good work. As a frustrated writer myself, I  hope he doesn't get TOO mad if I steal his style!  I can see that this will  be another writer that I will instinctively buy everytime a new book is  published.  Gettin' ready to read Cheaters next!	2000-05-28
US	50781946	R3EAQSDIDMIHN2	0684855925	255633863	Single Mom: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An Excellent Read!	I read this book a few months back. I found it very good. This is the second book I have read by Omar Tyree. The first was Flyy Girl, which I found entirely too sophmoric. Flyy Girl was a good read for a teen in high school. Single Mom was an excellent read for a sho'nuff grown up! I found the character of Brock to be a strong one, and Walter was truly a momma's boy. When I was a single mom, I would have loved to meet a Brock! However, when it came down to the wire, both men, to the best of their abilities, came through for their sons. For the most part I liked Denise. Having been a single mom at one time, I could identify. All in all, I would have to say that I am more open to reading books by this author than I was after reading his first effort. It is obvious that as he matures, so does his subject matter. And that is, after all, the way life is!	2000-05-12
US	50781946	R3IHJXC1RBFEAQ	0967602807	528703759	Satin Doll	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Satin Doll	I liked this book very much.  The fact that I just happen to know the author gave it a different spin.  But once I forgot about that and really got absorbed in the story, I found it to be a real page-turner.  I have  recommended this book to quite a few other avid readers.  I think anyone  who reads it will find it very enjoyable.	1999-12-27
