US	50790397	R3KA8ZLT08TJDF	0521781701	500334678	The Poverty of the Linnaean Hierarchy: A Philosophical Study of Biological Taxonomy (Cambridge Studies in Philosophy and Biology)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	I have been waiting for this book in years	Gradually general principles of classification and knowledge organizations have become more clear to me. An important insight is that any classification of a domain must be based on theories or views of that domain. I try to verify this on different domains. This is not always easy, and some of the most influential classifications seems to contradict this principle. This is, for example, the case with Linnaean classification in biology, which was developed before Darvian and modern evolutionary theory and it is the case with the influential psychiatric classification DSM IV.  <br />Ereshefskys book on the Linnaean classification in biology represents high class scholarship in both biology and philosophy and it is a goldmine of arguments for a general philosophy of classification. Besides it is an indication that philosophy can make itself a productive part of of specific specific scientific research.	2004-07-30
US	50790397	R2CK732ALMDLW5	0810849542	602817958	Aware and Responsible: Papers of the Nordic-International Colloquium on Social and Cultural Awareness and Responsibility in Library, Information and Documentation Studies (SCARLID)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Scandinavian-International voices in Library and Information	As a contributer to this book, I am not a neutral reviewer. This collection represent some voices in Library and Information Science (LIS), or as we prefer: LID: Library, Information and Documentation Science.Because the table of content is not available at Amazon at this time, it is given below:     1) Library and Information Science in Context: The Development of Scientific Fields and Their Relations to Professional Contexts     Fredrick Astrom     2) Every Discipline Needs a History: Information Management and the Early Information Society in Britain     Alistair Black     3) The Social Legitimacy of Library and Information Studies: Reconsidering the Institutional Paradigm     Joacim Hansson     4) Social and Cultural Awariness and Responsibility in Library, Information, and Documentation Studies     Birger Hjorland     5) Documentation in a Complementary Perspective     Niels Windfeld Lund     6) Information History, Library History, or History By and Large? Remarks on Recent Discussion on Library and Information History     Ilkka Makinen     7) Francis Bacon's Natural History and Problems of the Communication of Scientific Knowledge     W. Boyd Rayward     8) Hermeneutics of Metadocumentation and Librarianship     Vesa Suominen     9) Reflections on Social and Cultural Awareness and Responsibility in Library, Information and Documentation - Commentary on the SCARLID Colloquium     Michael Buckland         The voices in this book have been compared with the contributers to the first conferences on Conceptions in Library and Information Science (CoLIS) and some of us overlap with that conference. A third group of people engeged in the philosophical foundations of LIS are the contributers to the recent issue of Library Trends (2004, vol. 52 issue 3) on the philosophy of information. These three sources propably represents the most up-todate and central collected sources on the conceptual foundations of LIS.	2004-07-24
US	50790397	RALFG69ZN6KIN	1566394163	127663983	Frontiers Of Illusion: Science, Technology and the Politics of Progress	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Important book for democratizing science	The author states in the preface \\"I here baldly and unapologetically state that I recognize the scientific method to be a valid technique for approaching what I am pleased to term an objective understanding of the physical and natural world. 'This belief, however, offers no apriory comfort to anyone who would try to answer such questions as What types of scientific knowledge should society choose to pursue? How should such choices be made and by whom? How should society apply this knowledge, once gained? How can \\"progress\\" in science and technology be defined and measured in the context of broader social and political goals? And indeed, it is precisely these sorts of question that underlie and motivate this book\\".<br />Although I do not agree that there is such a thing as THE SCIENTIFIC METHOD (but a variety of scientific methods) and although I do not agree that specific kinds of methods garantees truth and objectivity, I understand the author's need to distinguish such narrow methodological issues from the broader issues concerning the relations between science and society. These last questions are important in democratic societies, why libraries, masse communication and other institutions, which are supposted to support democracy should make an effort to dissiminate this kind of literature.	2004-07-10
US	50790397	R2EWPAZ7019LC	082472075X	166426778	Encyclopedia of Library and Information Science, Second Edition (Encyclopedia of Library & Information Science) (Volume 2)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Mostly reprints of old articles	Many articles in this 2. edition are just reprints of articles from the 1 edition. It is a real problem that the articles are not dated or have otherwise been indicated whether they are new in this edition (from 2003) or have just been reprinted without updating from the first edition which was published in 73 volumes from 1968 until 2003. (Vol 1-33 A-Z; Vol. 34+35 = Index; Vol 36-73 = supplements)    For example, the article \\"Philosophy of Science\\" was pubished in 1977. It is reprinted in the 2nd edition without any changes in content (only typographical changes such as two columns). In the 2nd edition we are misinformed that this entry is \\"Print Published: 05/20/2003 | Online Published: 06/23/2003\\". The readers are thus misled concerning what they are reading. This is tru for many articles, I guess much more than 50%.        The only way you can tell whether the article is revised or updated is by looking at the references and see if new references are included - in most cases they are not (alternatively, of course compare the articles in the two editions page by page).     Both the first edition and the second edition have a heavy emphazis on specific libraries in specific countries and is weak in theoretical and conceptual issues.    When this is said, it should be said that there are many important articles in this work and it is an obvious advantage that it is available online and the papers available as pdf-files. I have now read usefull articles that I would not have read if I had to make paper copies from the old edition.	2004-05-27
US	50790397	R1QG5TRSTXKKC9	0810842890	73224684	Subject Determination during the Cataloging Process	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A contribution to subject analysis	This book is based on the author's dissertation. It is an empirical investigation of how catalogers subject index books in some large American research libraries. The name of the libraries is given, but the catalogers themselves are anonymous. What is strange is that the title of the books, whose subject indexing is discussed, is also anonymous. This is unfortunate because it makes it impossible for readers and other researchers to interpret and discuss the indexing. <br />It appears that catalogers performed their analysis in some stages:<br />- Identification of the topic of the book<BR>- Identification of the author's intent<BR>- Inference from possible uses<BR>- Relation of the books topic to the existing collection<BR>- Relation of the topic to the classification scheme and subject-heading list. <br />The empirical study is valuable because we have so little knowledge of the subject indexing process. However, not much knowledge is given concerning the importance of subject knowledge and different theoretical perspectives. Most important omission is Cutters classical principles (1876 and 1904). Some researchers are mentioned, e.g. Beghtol, Fugmann and Langridge, but the theoretical discussion is very thin indeed. (Jens Erik Mai is mentioned in the text but forgotten in the bibliography). Theoretical contributions in this field include my own epistemological approach (Journal of Documentation 1992, 172-200 and my paper (2001). Towards a theory of aboutness, subject, topicality, theme, domain, field, content. . . and relevance. Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology. 52(9):774-778 and elsewhere). <br />Librarians index documents every day in many databases of all sorts. We need very much qualitative analysis like this book. We need however to discuss in detail the classification of public known documents in known databases from different theoretical perspectives. (An brief overview of theories of subject analysis appears in Jack Andersons dissertation \\"Analyzing the role of knowledge organization in scholarly communication: An inquiry into the intellectual foundation of knowledge organization\\" from 2004 freely available on (...). <br />Only by allowing other researchers to interpret and discuss the indexing of public known documents from different theoretical perspectives can we make progress as a research field connected to indexing practices.	2004-05-08
US	50790397	R3ORT1EJCNFI73	0080430767	705784325	International Encyclopedia of Social & Behavioral Sciences	Books	3	39	42	N	N	Valuable but with serious flaws	The publication of this work is of course an important event in the Social and Behavioral Sciences. There is no doubt that it is in many ways of a high value. The price, however, is also extreme. At this extreme cost, I think, one is permitted to be critical. <BR>Overall, I find that psychiatry, neurosciences and the like take much too much space at the expense of subjects more related to the social sciences. Just to name one example: The Organization OECD (Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development) has no entry (although there are a few  references in the index). <BR>The emphasis on behavioral sciences is argued in the introduction as an implication of the decision to cover the behavioral sciences in full. I do not quite agree in this decision. Is behavioral science not connected to behaviorism? And is behaviorism not a point of view that has lost much influence? This edition does not contain an article about \\"the behavioral sciences\\" (as did the 1968 edition). This is strange considering this very heavy concentration on that field. In this way this priority is not supported by arguments concerning the nature of the social sciences. By the way there is a very interesting article in this new (3rd) edition \\"Human sciences, History and sociology\\". This article explains how this concept is used as a new umbrella by a growing number of scientists who feel uncomfortable with the term \\"behavior\\" as the uniting concept. In a way this article confirms my skepticism about the concept of \\"behavioural sciences\\". <BR>Some serious omissions are: There is no article on \\"concepts\\" in general. There are no articles about scientific concepts or about social science concepts and terminology. (The exception is one about children's understanding of scientific concepts, again an example of over domination of \\"behavioral\\" views). The field of information science is almost totally absent, except as a heading in the subject index. Bradford's law of scattering and Zipfs law arenot mentioned at all. There are no articles on core concepts such as \\"information\\" (although \\"information theory\\" is represented), \\"relevance\\", \\"(scientific) documentation\\" etc. <BR>There are a number of articles about core databases in different disciplines. None, however, about core databases in many other fields, including psychology and economics. This kind of asymmetry is common also in many other areas. There are many articles about new philosophical approaches to many fields, which I highly appreciate. But, for example, the fine article about \\"Sociology, epistemology of\\" does not have its counterpart in, for example, psychology. <BR>The basic structure of this encyclopedia is based, among other things, on the disciplines of the social sciences. But how many exists, and which should be excluded. There are some important discussions of this in the Introduction just as there are very useful articles on the history etc of scientific disciplines and social science disciplines in particular. The introduction, the index and these article are not, however consistent, and my feeling is that the view of what constitute the disciplines of the social sciences is somewhat narrow and conservative. <BR>These remarks should not bias my conclusion that this is a rich and useful source.  There are extremely many articles. Each article is concise, informative and quickly read.	2003-08-11
US	50790397	R3B1XA5JTM3NR9	157387115X	797610636	35: Annual Review of Information Science and Technology 2001 (Annual Review of Information Science & Technology)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	ELECTRONIC RETRIEVAL	---------------------------------------------------------<BR>----THIS IS A REVIEW OF VOL. 35 FROM DECEMBER 2001  -----<BR>---------------------------------------------------------<br />Contents of Volume 35 include: <BR>The Concept of Situation in Information Science, by Colleen Cool <BR>Conceptual Frameworks in Information Behavior, by Karen E. Pettigrew, Raya Fidel, and Harry Bruce <BR>Distributed Information Management, by William M. Pottenger, Miranda R. Callahan, and Michael A. Padgett <BR>Digital Privacy: Toward a New Politics and Discursive Practice, by Philip Doty <BR>Subject Access Points in Electronic Retrieval, by Birger Hjorland and Lykke Kyllesbech Nielsen <BR>Methods of Generating and Evaluating Hypertext, by James Blustein and Mark S. Staveley <BR>Digital Preservation, by Elizabeth Yakel <BR>Knowledge Management, by Noreen Mac Morrow <BR>Library and Information Science Education in the Nineties, by Elisabeth Logan and Ingrid Hseieh-Yee ---------------------------------<BR>Hjørland, B. & Kyllesbech Nielsen, L. (2001). Subject Access Points in Electronic Retrieval. Annual Review of Information Science and technology, vol. 35, 3-51. [Vol. 35 vas delayed: should have been published in 2000]<BR>Abstract: The first part of this article presents theoretical issues related to subjects and access data, including a discussion of aboutness, subject matter, topicality and related concepts. It includes a brief historical description of major technology driven stages in the development of subject access points (SAPs) and a presentation of taxonomic criteria for SAPs. The second part present research related to each specific kind of SAPs: document titles, abstracts, references or citations, full text elements, and value added SAPs like descriptors, identifiers, and classification codes. <BR>The main focus in information science (IS) has been on quantitative issues, such as how length of SAPs (or document representations) influences recall and precision. In additionto this quantitative view, this review also focuses on qualitative aspects: the kinds of information that is important for retrieval and the relative strength and weaknesses for each kind of SAPs in providing this needed information. <BR>  The review is informed by a modern epistemological view, according to which observations are theory-dependent. Representations of documents are not (nor should they be) objective, neutral, or value-free, but are always biased in one direction or another. Ideally they should reflect the goals and values of the information system, of which they form a part. It also emphasis a rich description of many kinds of documents, subjects, cultures, and target groups etc., thus avoiding the dominating tendency to suppose that one ideal language or algorithm can manage all kind of demands.	2002-03-03
US	50790397	R2E658WV8INX3O	0566079925	493230269	The Future of Classification	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Too traditional	This book contains a collection of essays on classification most of which are written by rather well-known contributors. <BR> Overall the book is a disappointment and points to problems in library and information science (LIS) as a research field. Classification is often regarded as one of the core subdisciplines of the field and as one of the core qualifications of library and information professionals. Nevertheless, no classification researchers are today visible in bibliometric maps of LIS (e.g. White & McCain, 1998)! <BR> One of the problems in this book is that it fails to define classification and to distinguish between different kinds of classification. By only considering systems like Dewey, LC and facetted classifications, it fail to consider, for example, bibliometric approaches in LIS as kinds of classifications and thus to consider the basic strength and weakness of different methods of classification. In computer science the term \\"ontologies\\" is very popular and can be considered a modern development in classification research. Vickery (1997) made a useful introduction to this research, but it is not considered in the present book. <BR> If the electronic environment is to be fully considered, one need to compare the relative strength and weakness of all kinds of subject access points (cf., Hjørland & Kyllesbech Nielsen, 2001). One have to consider what utility-if any-classification codes can have in relation to all other kinds of access points. <BR> In Chapter 3 Julian Warner actually do take a step toward considering inherent weaknesses in current approaches to Information Retrieval (IR), and this chapter was in my view the best one. I think he is right in making the point that the IR-tradition has built on the assumption that the system should provide a set of records that satisfy a query. What an IR system in his view should do is to enlarging the users' capacity for informed choice between the representation of objects in the given universe of discourse.<BR> In recent years the methods of classification and more generally: Knowledge organization has been reconsidered. Hjørland & Albrechtsen (1999) claimed that the four basic methods are respectively empiristic, rationalistic, historicist and pragmatic. If one uses, for example bibliometric methods, one applies an empiricist method. The best representatives of the rationalist method are the facetted classifications. An example of the importance of historicist methods are given in Hjørland (2000) considering the classification of the social sciences. An unfolded comparison of all methods used in one domain is given in Hjørland (1998). In my view, the future of classification is connected to a combination of these four methods of classification and to the further clarification of strong and weak aspects of different methods and systems. Unfortunately, these issues are not addressed in the book, while it fail to answer the fundamental questions about the future of classification in LIS.<br />...	2001-12-26
US	50790397	R1TZJQPY0QB69B	0786408405	178811327	A History of Information Storage and Retrieval	Books	1	3	5	N	N	Misplaced title	In computer science as well as in library and information science there is a field devoted to information storage and retrieval. It has even got its own journals, e.g.  &quot;Information retrieval&quot;. Another journal, &quot;Information Processing &amp; Management&quot; was formerly titled &quot;Information Storage and Retrieval&quot;.<br />This research area has an experimental tradition going back to the 1950'ties including the famous Cranfield experiments, and is today continued in the TREC experiments.<br />This book mentions absolutely NOTHING of all this research. It is mainly concentrating on the history of encyclopedias. The author or publisher may have chosen this misguiding title because they have already earlier published a book about encyclopedias.	2001-11-27
US	50790397	R1GRJEJ1V5QYKD	0809323907	946426461	The Modern Invention of Information: Discourse, History, and Power	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Rethinking information	This is an important book. It introduces and discusses founders of documentation and information science who are not well known in the USA because many of their main work were written in French. After the introduction the second chapter presents the works of Paul Otlet and Suzanne Briet, the third chapter introduces Information Theory, Cybernetics and the Discourse of &quot;Man&quot;, the fourth chapter Pierre Lvy and the &quot;Virtual&quot;, the fifth chapter Heidegger and Benjamin. The concluding chapter discusses &quot;Information&quot; and the Role of Critical Theory. <BR>Ronald Day presents an important line of development as a background for understanding our modern conception of information. This conception is not without problems, and Days work is an important step for a necessary rethinking of information and information science.	2001-11-04
US	50790397	R1S82DAPCD44P7	0910608644	350035506	The DDC, the Universe of Knowledge, and the Post-Modern Library	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A beginning theoretical critique of library classification	Miksa outlines the developments in library classification theory as developed in the 20.Century. E. C. Richardson, H. E. Bliss, W. C. B. Sayers and S. R. Ranganathan are identified as the main contributors and their theories and views are introduced. This is a well done, and could serve as a supplementary reading on a shorter course in classification theory. What is especially valuable is that Miksa tries to identify both the strong and weak side of this theory and the hidden assumptions. For example, he points out that neither Ranganat-han himself nor his followers have ever critically analyzed the basis of his approach. They have also paid insufficient attention to the strong points of other systems or to the weak point of his/their own. Also the neglecting of problems in language and semantics, and the believing in one best subject classification for all purposes belongs to the problematic baggage in classification theory.   Miksa shows, that since 1950 the DDC has increasingly been based on this classification theory, and he recommends, that those responsible for the system should adapts a much more open and questioning stance towards the assumptions in this theory.   Miksa's investigation of these theoretical problems remains, however, on a rather rudimentary level. There is a lack of broader horizon based on, among other, IR-research, citation-based retrieval, epistemology, and theories in semantics and semiotics.  <br />Read also (or perhaps first) Miksas article on classification in Encyclopedia of Library History (Wiegand & Davis, 1994, pp. 144-153). <BR>Interested readers are also referred to Hj?rland, B. (1999). Review of Francis L. Miksa: The DDC, The Universe of Knowledge, and the Post-Modern Library. Journal of the American Society for Information Science, 50(5), 475-477.	2001-03-14
US	50790397	R30NA5U6SXUY3K	0838638767	764933349	Discovery and Decision:: Exploring the Metaphysics and Epistemology of Scientific Classification	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A relevant contribution to classification research.	This little book presents examples of scientific classifications and discuss their methods and objectivity. In this process the author relates her own thoughts to the most important philosophers such as Hillary Putnam and Georges Rey.      I found it useful when I first write this review, but I think the book is unclear in important respects, e.g. the understanding of &quot;objectivism&quot;. I have now got Marc Ereshefsky (2000): The Poverty of the Linnaean Hierarchy : A Philosophical Study of Biological Taxonomy, which I think is MUCH better (see my review here at Amazon.com).	2001-03-14
US	50790397	R2OCY3HD3WJQ46	0395687233	332595803	The Informed Writer: Using Sources in the Disciplines	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Towards a methodology of information seeking and use	The book is a textbook designed for college students. It contains many exercises and there are many text examples in the book, which are fine given its purpose. This review is written from the perspective of library and information science (LIS), which is about the utilization of information sources. In the new electronic environment the traditional role of LIS is weakened, and many find that one way of survival for libraries is to teach information seeking and use. That is one reason I find this book important also for the LIS profession: It is basically about how writers should seek and use information.  -----The book has important new ways of looking at the problem of information seeking. Firstly, it recognizes that different disciplines or domains are not identical but put different demands to users. It is in a sense non-reductionistic. This does not imply that it cannot teach student something general about how to write, to read and to use information sources. It implies, however, that the different nature of different kinds of writing in different disciplines is taken into account. Secondly, it recognizes the social character of writing and seeking information. Thirdly, it emphasizes the reciprocal nature of writing and reading (and using information). When you read, you have to seek information, and you are confronted with different views, which forces you to consider your own position. In this process, the reader is converted to a writer, whether or not he writes or publishes his own ideas. I like this view about the active role of the reader, and I like the remark on p. 23: \\"The cure for real boredom is to find a more advanced book on the subject; the only cure for pseudo-boredom is to become fully and personally involved in the book already in front of you\\".  -----The book is informed by an advanced theoretical knowledge of scholarly research, documents and their composition. Because it is a textbook for college students such knowledge is only communicatedindirectly. For example, chapter 6 is about \\"Recognizing the many voices in a text\\". The practical advises given are of course based on textual theory (Bakhtin and Kristeva), but this is not explicated.   -----Chapter 8 is titled \\"Evaluating the book as a whole: The book review\\", and the first heading is \\"books as tools\\". Although I like this approach very much it is not clearly pointed out that knowledge is always formed by some epistemological assumptions, and that this is important when evaluating it and when one is going to find one's own opinion on an issue. Bazerman has written about this (e.g., 1988). The reason that this is not addressed in the present book must be that it is too difficult for the target group of the book to handle (although chapter 12 \\"Creating Knowledge\\" contains some important comments on such issues).  -----In chapter 14 (\\"Reading and Writing About Events as They Happen: Observation in Social and Natural Sciences\\" there is (p. 444-445) a remark on the language of the behavioral sciences: \\". . . you will not be able to maintain entirely value- and judgment free language . . . Some would even argue that the use of behavioral and operational language implies a mechanistic view of humans as both subjects and researchers and that a more human-centered view requires a different kind of language . . . Objectivity can remain an ideal goal\\".  In my view the objectivity of the behaviorist language is NOT something that should be recommended as an ideal. It is not just a mechanical view of humans, it is pseudo-objective, in the way that it hides the researchers subjective interpretation behind a seemingly objective language. This has been criticized strongly. Chomsky (1959) demonstrated the pseudo-nature of the behaviorist language. More recently Danziger (1997) has developed critics of the language of psychology. Of course I can see the dilemma Bazerman is facing when writing textbooks about writing for college students. One has to teach them howthe literature is actually written, and at the same time try to criticize the way main-stream publications are designed.  -----In chapter 9 the first heading is \\"Knowledge is Messy\\". I agree, but maybe a little more specification of why knowledge is often messy should be included, even it would imply a critical analyses of the \\"publish or perish\\" academic culture. In this chapter is also a section about \\"Framing a Subject\\", where one important advice is to find a subject in which there is enough, but not too much source material. I feel that a more specific description of kinds of problems in framing subjects for different kinds and levels of education, based on the experience of highly qualified teachers, would be extremely useful in the books like this. -----I find the book very recommendable. Teaching writing is an important subject. I also found the book useful in my search for new kinds of inspiration for the LIS community. There are many problems regarding searching and using literature that are not addressed in this book. What kind of advises can teachers and librarians give students in framing subjects, seeking and using subject literature? This book takes some steps in providing answer to this question. For example, there are implicit principles of historical source criticism built into the book. But many other questions are not dealt with. To what degree are information sources individual, so that only specific (idiographical) knowledge can be applied? In all kinds of research, the use of literature is extremely important. However, in most methodologies the laboratory is the described as the central source of information. Is it possible to develop a (social) epistemology in which the library is treated as a core source of information? <br />Bazerman, C. (1988). Shaping written knowledge. Madison: University of Wisconsin Press. Chomsky, N. (1959). Review of B. F. Skinner: Verbal behavior (1957). Language, 35(1), 25-58. Danziger, K. (1997). Naming the Mind.How Psychology Found its Language. London: SAGE Publications.	2001-01-03
US	50790397	R1M4OJABBR1WYC	0914587064	374422060	Reason & Nature: A Taxonomy of the Abstract & Natural Sciences (Adventures in science series)	Books	1	0	0	N	N	Uninformed Taxonomy	This is the authors first book presenting his basic view of the  classification of the arts and sciences. In future books he intend to cover  the social sciences, arts, humanities and metaphysics.  One motivation for  producing this work has been that reference books mostly are  contradictionary and ambigutious, vague and inconsistent.  The author  presents his own definitions of knowledge, science, arts etc., introduces  his own taxonomy of the sciences, present each of them together with some  elementary information (e.g. the greek alphabet and some mathematical  symbols in the chapter on mathematics).  The sources used according to the  bibliography are 40 dictionaries, encyclopedias, introductions etc. from  the sciences. There is no discussion of alternative ways of defining,  describing or classifying the sciences. There are no references in the  bibliography about principles of classification, knowledge organization,  taxonomy, categorization etc. There is no demonstration of knowledge about  bibliographical mapping of the sciences, etc. <br />Basically, the author  demonstrates a kind of &quot;naive realism&quot;, that his own, uninformed  view on the taxonomy of knowledge is the only valid one. That there is no  need to consider alternative views, and that the taxonomy of the sciences  is objective, not a reflection of different views or interests. <br />Despite  this criticism the book might be useful as an elementary introduction to  some basic issues in the broader field of the sciences.	2000-08-22
US	50790397	R3CPZK7KDEJDSE	0898596203	161219236	Analyzing Language in Restricted Domains: Sublanguage Description and Processing	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Workshop papers on a neglected topic	This book contains 12 papers from a workshop on sublanguages held in 1984 at New York University:  1. Sublanguages: Linguistic Phenomenon, Computational Tool.  Naomi Sager.---- 2. Sublanguage Analysis. John Lehrberger.---- 3. The Status of Telegraphic Sublanguages. E. Fitzpatrick  et al.----  4. Sublanguage and Knowledge. Jerry R. Hobbs.----  5. The Use  of Machine-Readable Dictionaries in Sublanguage Analysis. D. E. Walker  &amp; R. A. Amsler.---- 6. Automatic Structuring of Sublanguage  Information: Application to Medical Narrative. Carol Friedman.---- 7.  General Semantic patterns in Different Sublanguages. Elaine March.----  8.  A Sublanguage for Reporting and Analysis of  Space Events. C. A. Montgomery  &amp; B. C. Glover.---- 9. Constraining the Interpretation of  Nominal  Compounds in a Limited Context. T.W. Finin.---- 10. The Role of Syntax in  the Sublanguage of Medical Diagnostic Statements. G. Dunham. ---- 11. How  One Might Automatically Identify and Adapt to a Sublanguage: An Initial  Exploration. J. Slocum. ----12.Discovering Sublanguage Structures. L.  Hirschman.<br />The papers in this book covers both theoretical aspects and  empirical analyses, but one cannot say that they contain a theory about  what sublanguages is and how they develop the way they do. Such a  perspective is found in the German socioliguist Ulich Ammon's (1973/1977)  book. According to Ammon we can make a distinction between common language  and Languages for Special Purposes (LSP). The common language is that part  of a natural language that is almost uniform among all members of a society  and which refer to commonly known things, affairs, and thoughts. LSP on the  other hand separates members of a society from each other and refer to  things, affairs, and thoughts, which are special for parts of social life.  LSP are especially developed in relation to the working life, but also  exists in the sphere of consumption, where many hobbies have LSP. Ammon  finds that different LSPcan vary in their distance to the common language.  According to him, this distance is depending of the distance between the  working sphere where it is used and the sphere that is common for the whole  society, which in his theoretical view is the sphere of consumption. Below  is shown how he explains the relative difficulties of different LSP as a  function of their distance from the sphere of consumption:  (1). The sector  for the manufacturing of means of production. No direct connection to the  sphere of consumption. The Language for special purpose (LSP) is therefore  very different from common language.  (2)- The sector for the manufacturing  of consumer goods in a broad sense. This sector is closer to the sphere of  consumption, where the products end up (although mostly brought about by  sector 3).  (3). The sector for the distribution of consumer goods. To a  certain degree is the language for special purposes here a part of the  common language (e.g., \\"Fiat 128\\" or the cake  \\"goose breasts\\"). The  consumers and the producers/distributors does however emphases different  aspects.  (4) The state sector, which regulates the overall social life.  Even if state politics, administration of justice, finances, etc. is  relevant for all citizens, this sector represents still typical LSP, far  removed from common language (which by Ammon is seen as a social  disproportion).  In my opinion is this also a relevant theory for  information-seeking studies because it can help explaining terminological  problems and provide guidelines for working with thesauri and subject  terminology. There is, however an even deeper cause. Because information  seekers need terminology and because there is a connection between  linguistic knowledge and substantial knowledge, such a theory might help  explaining problems in cross-disciplinary information seeking. It might  explain what knowledge and what terminology is not a part of the normal  persons' repertoire.   The fundamental principles of LSP are determined  on the one hand by different groups' different communicative needs, and on  the other hand by an economic principle, which reduces the use of redundant  information. In a firm the purchasing department must have more precise  terms for tools than the workers, who manufacture the goods. The term  \\"tongs for spot weld\\" could be used by the people in the purchasing  department, while just \\"tongs\\" would more likely be used by the workers  using it.  Sublanguages are of rather obvious importance for information  science, but have so far been much neglected, because a domain-specific  approach (Hjørland &amp; Albrechtsen, 1995) is a rather new thing. As  pointed out by Buckland (1999) terminology is a central issue in research  on digital libraries.<br />Ammon, Ulich (1977). Indføring i sociolingvistik.  Kbh.: Gyldendal. (Translated from \\"Probleme der Soziolingvistik\\",  1973).<br />Buckland, M. (1999) Vocabulary as a Central Concept in Library and  Information Science. <br />Hjørland, B. &amp;  Albrechtsen, H. (1995). Toward A New Horizon in Information Science: Domain  Analysis. Journal of the American Society for Information Science, 46(6),  400-425.	2000-06-02
US	50790397	R2N4RLM48R4RW1	0781718600	307058805	Studying a Study and Testing a Test: How to Read the Medical Evidence (With CD-ROM for Windows & Macintosh)	Books	4	27	54	N	N	Reading: Broad or narrow?	This book assumes that the reading of medical texts is not just something that is self-evident, but something that can be learned by reading the book. &quot;The traditional course in reading the medical literature consists of &quot;Here's the New England Journal of Medicine. Read it!&quot;. Unlike this &quot;sink or swim&quot; method, this book provides a step-by step, active-participation approach to a clinical review of the medical literature. <br />In a way, this book is a traditional book on research methods turned upside down. Instead of telling the researcher how to do and report a study, this book tells the reader how to apply such knowledge in determining the quality of a medical paper. As such it is well written, clear and relevant. <br />I would like to suggest, however, that research methods are always depending on a views in the philosophy of science. (Courses in the Philosophy of Medicine are becoming more and more important in the education of Doctors). As an example of a well received book I can mention &quot;Philosophy of Medicine. An Introduction&quot; by Henrik R. Wulff, Stig Andur Pedersen &amp; Raben Rosenberg (Oxford, UK: Blackwell Scientific Publications, 1986). Knowledge of this kind should enable the reader to read and interpret the medical literature at a still higher level. (It is of course more difficult to write easy &quot;how to read books&quot; based on such a more theoretical and philosophical level compared to the more statistical and methodical level). <br />There exists a broader literature on &quot;Clinical reasoning in the health Professions&quot; (Higgs et al), &quot;Medical semiotics&quot; (Baer et al.), diverse philosophical studies of medicine, &quot;Quality in science&quot; and much more. It would be interesting if anyone would try to expose how such knowledge could be turned upside down as guide on how to read the medical literature on a still deeper level.<br />It is my claim that a general background in philosophy and science studies should provide readers with even better qualifications to read the scientific literature. This is not an extraordinary position. In Denmark courses in the philosophy of science are very popular, and just now are we discussing to make such courses compulsory in all university studies.	2000-05-31
US	50790397	R18B0LQK1MIODH	3760902006	314552336	Klassifizierung der Wissenschaften (German Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Classic Work	This book is a German translation of a Russian book about the classification of the sciences. It is in 2 volumes, published by Pahl-Rugenstein in Kln, Germany in 1976. (However in volume 2 a third  volume is announced, and I do not know whether it was published).  The work  is a historical treatment of classifications and the theories and  philosophical views behind them (and can be read as an interpretation of  the philosophy of science behind classifications). This book was published  at a time in history, where research in the classification of the sciences  had almost disappeared (As Francis Miksa, 1999, has pointed out). It is  thus a main work from the 20.Century about classification of the sciences.	2000-05-18
US	50790397	R2W9XN3Q5Q3IC7	3886194310	673563296	Historisch-kritisches Wörterbuch des Marxismus (German Edition)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Alive!	This book is not out of print. It is published by Argument in Germany. So far 6 out of planned 12-15 volumes are available. <br />It is an updated edition of  Kritische Woerterbuch des Marxismus in 8 volumes (translated from French). It is edited by Frigga Haug, Free University, Berlin. One new vol. is published each year.    The book is available (single volumes) through Amazon.de	2000-05-18
US	50790397	R3595RK6TAJHB0	8200039390	634478580	Information Science	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Information Science from Scandinavia	This book grew out of a Scandinavian conference titled: &quot;Information Authority and User Knowledge&quot; at Boraas University, Sweden, April, the 27.-28. 1993. The Key speaker was Patrick Wilson. The conference was  organized by late Professor Erland Munch-Petersen (Denmark/Sweden) and  Professor Johan Olaisen (Norway).   Of the original seven presentations  (including the introduction) four are published in this book, while seven  new chapters are added. The table of content is as follows: <br />Johan  Olaisen: Information, Cognitive Authority and Organizational Learning (p.  7) *Patrick Wilson: Some Consequences of Information Overload and Rapid  Conceptual Change (p. 21)   Birger Hjørland: Overload, Quality and Changing  Conceptual Frameworks (p. 35) Peter Ingwersen: Information and Information  Science in Context (p. 69) Jon-Arild Johannessen: The Cognitive Authority  of Information: Information Science, the Theory of Science and Ethics (p.  113) Ragnar Audunson: Comparing Change Processes in Public Libraries - an  Institutional Perspective (p. 135). Pertti Vakkari: Library and Information  Science: Content and Scope (p. 169).  *Erland Munch-Petersen: Patrick  Wilson and the Classics (p. 233) Ken Friedman: Individual Knowledge in the  Information Society (p. 245) *Johan Olaisen: Pluralism or Positivistic  Trivialism: Criteria for a Clarified Subjectivism (p. 277).  *Patrick  Wilson: The Future of Research in Our Field (p. 319) List of contributors  (p. 325)<br />* identifies the original conference contributions<br />The  original theme of the conference was broadened in the book by adding views  on Information Sciences by some leading Scandinavian researchers in this  field. <br />In my opinion this book has a certain Scandinavian  &quot;touch&quot; in the way we approach Information Science, and it can be  recommended as a book that presents this touch.<br />(The book had a hard  birth and was delayed. In Books in Print it was listed as canceled, when Idecided to make this review, and I had to bring it into the catalogue of  Amazon.com because it was not listed here).	2000-05-16
US	50790397	R3EZ7UJMS7E4CO	1878205129	62615114	Activity: The Theory, Methodology, and Problems (Issues in Contemporary Soviet Psychology)	Books	4	19	20	N	N	Activity theory flourish but the basic texts are unavailable	This book is a discussion about Activity theory (AT). AT is a psychological (and philosophical, humanistic and social scientific) approach developed primarily from the works of A.N. Leont'ev (1903-1979).  <br />AT is really flourishing now, also in international and American  psychology, in cognitive science and in information science. It is a  strange paradox, however, that the basic texts are still not available for  the English-speaking readers. <br />Leontiev's psychology is closely related  to that of Lev S. Vygotsky (1896-1934), father of the &quot;cultural  historical&quot; or &quot;sociocultural&quot; or &quot;sociocognitive&quot;  approach. There is no longer a need, however, to try to stress the  importance of Vygotsky's works. He is described as &quot;the Mozart of  psychology&quot; and his influence is dramatically growing (he is cited  more than 5.600 times in the Social Sciences Citation Index, his  &quot;Collected Works&quot; is published in six impressive volumes by  Plenum Publ. Corporation; Routledge has published an impressive series of  &quot;L.S. Vygotsky: Critical assessments&quot; (price 700$)and any course  in developmental psychology these days introduces his thoughts, and they  are also beginning to change the self-understanding of cognitive science in  a fundamental way. So, Wygotsky is becoming main stream. <br />The term  &quot;activity theory&quot; also flourish. Although this is more related to  the work of Leontiev (one of Vygotskys students and coworkers). Activity  theory is - among other things - popular in studies of human-computer  interaction. The very strange things is, however, that the basic texts are  almost unavailable in English. <br />Leontievs main work is in my opinion  &quot;Problems of the development of the mind&quot; (Problemy razvitiia  psikhiki). Published in English translation in Moscow by Progress in 1981.  This book in not in the catalogue of Amazon, and it has not so far been  possible for me to put it thereand to review it.   Another important book  by Leontiev is &quot;Activity,  consciousness, and personality&quot;  (translated   from Russian by Marie J. Hall from &quot;Deiatel'nost',  soznanie lichnost'&quot;) Published:   Englewood Cliffs, N.J. :  Prentice-Hall, 1978. This book is not in the online catalogue of  Prentice-Hall, and not in Amazon, and I have so far not been able to get it  there for a review. (It is my hope that this review might inspire some  publishers to make new editions). <br />Why is Leontiev important? I could  mention several reasons, but I shall limit myself to one, that of realism.   The Danish psychologist Erik Schultz, 1988, p. 65+117 presents the  following example: Imagine a teller. What is she doing? Why does she now  tell the money? Why does she now speak with that customer? Why does she now  turn to a colleague and gives him a piece of paper? <br />How would different  psychological approaches answer these questions? Psychoanalysis might try  to explain the teller's behaviour by her unconscious conflicts, which can  be traced to early childhood experiences. Behaviourism might try to explain  it by referring to reactions to stimuli and to learned behaviour.  Cognitivism might try to explain her behaviour by analysing what kind of  information processing goes on in her brain, and so on. The \\"realistic\\"  answer might be found in a detailed knowledge about the working  organisation of the bank. Leontyev points out, that persons are not  motivated by their biology, but by \\"the structure of production\\" (Leontyev,  1981).   <br />Leontievs theories have been very influencial in Denmark, in  Germany, in Russia, and in other European countries. They have inspired the  development of &quot;german critical psychology&quot; as well as other  marxist and non-marxist approaches. An important non-marxist approach in  Denmark is called &quot;anthropological psychology&quot; and has a strong  influence. <br />The book under review here presents philosophical discussions  related to AT. They are important for those who know the basic theory  already. But my primary purpose in writing this review has been to direct  the attention towards the primary works of Leontiev. They have been so  influencial in the countries where they have been available. Now we need  the break-through in the English speaking world.	2000-05-15
US	50790397	R3P8L3F2NO88T2	0262660970	827856108	A Study of Concepts (Representation and Mind)	Books	3	23	28	N	N	A Difficult Conception of Concepts	In my work I have found it much important to develop my understanding of semantics, concepts, and meaning.  Peacocke's book is a scholarly and powerful treatment of concepts (for which it get 5 stars), but it is also  difficult and one-sided. I highly recommend anybody to read the review by  Herman Philipse in Inquiry, 1994, 37, pp. 225-252. The reviewer writes that  Peacocke leaves out any full treatment of the relations between Concept  possession and linguistic understanding. &quot;While the philosophical  tradition from Plato to Husserl endorsed it, revolutionary philosophers  such as Schliermacher, Nitzsche, Peirce, and Wittgenstein held that it  involves a fundamental mistake&quot;.<br />What I have found extremely useful  for my purpose and for my understanding is the article by Georges Rey on  concepts on pp. 185-193 in A COMPANION TO THE PHILOSOPHY OF MIND (ed. by  Samuel Guttenplan. Published by Blackwell, Oxford, UK. in 1994 (and later  reprints).  I also strongly recommend Frank C. Keil: Concepts, Kinds, and  Cognitive Development. Cambridge, MA.: The MIT Press, 1989.	2000-05-12
US	50790397	R168JHCWH9POL6	1567502288	193576103	Meaning and Method in Information Studies (Information Management, Policy, and Services)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Putting Information Studies on the Right Track	The author is arguing for an interpretative approach to Library and Information Studies (LIS or just IS). In my opinion this represents fundamentally a fruitful and necessary reorientation of our field. <br />One  of the discussions that this book raises is the fate of bibliography as a  field. Bibliography is seen as a conception that predates the translation  of library science into library and information studies (p. 140). This is  described as being sad, because the impressive literature on  bibliographical scholarship reveals the application of acute reasoning  powers, highly developed methodology, sensitive judgement, and a rigorous  critical assessment of the efforts of fellow bibliographers. Bibliography  should not be considered an obsolete approach (p. 177).<br />Overall, I find  the book of a high intellectual standard and its message of great  importance. However, I am not sure that this book will have the influence  which it deserves. May be it is too theoretical in the sense that it does  not exemplify how an interpretative approach can make a difference in the  specific tasks, that confront library and information specialists. How is  such knowledge to be used in information seeking, indexing, or collection  building? I find it mandatory, that our field develop better theoretical  foundations for such processes and tasks. I am sure, that hermeneutics is a  very important alley in this project, and Cornelius is one of the few  persons in our field who is qualified in this area.<br />In my own writings, I  have argued for the importance of epistemological theories for LIS (see,  e.g., my article: Library and Information Science: practice, theory, and  philosophical basis. IN: Information Processing and Management, 36, 2000,  pp. 501-531) One problem is that too few people in LIS have qualifications  in this area (and that people qualified in epistemology often lack  qualifications in indexing, information retrieval etc.). Among the few  people in our field that have written about epistemology is J. Budd, Bernd  Frohmann and R. Capurro. We are very few, and seems to be disorganized and  neglecting each others work.	2000-05-11
US	50790397	R32EINWTKDQYF1	083890405X	921655034	Sources of Information in the Social Sciences: A Guide to Literature	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Fourth Edition is Much Wanted	In library schools we teach information sources in different domains, including the social sciences. Guides to such sources are extremely important for the identity and qualifications of information specialists.  Webbs guide (third edition) from 1986 was the best overall guide to  information souces in the social sciences generally.  The book has a  chapter on social science literature, which also covered such issues as the  structure of the information system, the users of social science literature  and patterns of use; the evolution of the literature, and presentations of  different types of information sources, including sources on different  paradigms or approaches.  The book is highly structured, and this structure  itself is an important subject to teach.  After the general sources are  chapters devoted to History, Geography, Economics with Business  Administration, Sociology, Anthropology, Psychology, Education and  Political Science.  Each chapter is devided in two main parts &quot;Survey  of the Field&quot; and &quot;Survey of the Reference Works&quot;. The  survey of the field includes systems, approaches, methodologies and history  of the field, outstanding primary works, tekstbooks and handbooks, and a  survey of the main subdisciplines and their literature.  The survey of the  reference literature is highly structured and annotated. I have only small  objections to the classes used in the typology. For example, the class  &quot;reviews&quot; covers both literature reviews and book reviews, which  in my opinion are two different things.  The book was published by the  American Library Association, and representended in my opinion a very  important action for the advancement of information science and a  cooperative effort  between ALA and subject specialist.  The core expertise  of librarians and information specialists are in my opinion closely related  to research and practice in the system of information sources in different  domains. If our profession was in front with the development, we should  publish a new edition of this work every year in paper, online and on  CD-rom.n was in front with the development, we should  publish a new edition of this work every year in paper, online and on  CD-rom.	2000-05-10
US	50790397	R9N34HXC4SDKV	0195099559	532442203	A Handbook of Critical Approaches to Literature	Books	5	18	21	N	N	Fine Overview of Approaches to the Interpretation of Fiction	This book introduces different approaches to the interpretation of literature (fiction). Both traditional and non-traditional approaches, including historical-biographical approaches, formalist approaches,  psychological approaches, mythological approaches, feminist approaches,  cultural approaches, structuralist approaches and other approaches.<br />Throughout the book, the same examples are used (including Hamlet and  Huckleberry Finn). The book is very clear and easy, yet extremely  informative.<br />Why do I, an information scientist without background in  literature, review this book here on Amazon? Because I find that it is a  very relevant book for students in library schools, one that can be used in  my &quot;domain analytic&quot; approach to library and information studies.<br />The classification and indexing of literature (fiction and non-fiction)  is core activity for information professionals. This book demonstrates,  that the interpretation of a book (say Hamlet) depends on the theoretical  outlook of the interpreter. A book can be indexed or classified in many  ways. Each approach or paradigm in a strong way is a theory about how a  book should be interpreted, and has strong implication on how it should be  indexed or classified in an ideal library.  My impression is, however, that  librarians and information specialist seldom uses such theory, when they  discuss indexing or classification principles (e.g., for fiction). Most  often they base their principles on empirical methods or common sense,  which in my opinion is not enough.	2000-05-05
US	50790397	R3945CO8G3WIVJ	5010019191	252698298	A history of psychology (Student's library)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Recommended history of Psychology	I have not read the English translation of this book. This review is based on a Danish translation from 1980.  I recommend this book very much. Most histories of psychology fail to discuss why psychology developed the way it  did, and what the principal strong points and weaknesses in the different  schools of psychology are. The book discusses functionalism, behaviorism,  gestalt psychology, psychoanalysis, genetic epistemology, role theory,  existentialism and marxism. It is my impression that the book is able to  explain the development of psychology, and not just, as most other  histories of psychology, just refer one psychological researcher after  another.  The book is written from a marxist point of view. Much of this  marxism appears naive and to be a propagandistic defence of the Soviet  Union. The collapse of the system i 1989 demonstrates the naivity of this  view.  However, if you disregards these naive beliefs in the Soviet society  and communism, you will have a fine critique of the development of  psychological science, which very often have very precise arguments about  the failures in different schools.	2000-05-03
US	50790397	R2G123PUBIE9UI	0803958633	535979518	What′s Behind the Research?: Discovering Hidden Assumptions in the Behavioral Sciences	Books	4	14	14	N	N	A Consumers Guide to the Behavioral Sciences	This book is about the philosophy of the behavioral sciences. However, as the title indicates it is written as a sort of &quot;Consumer guide&quot;. There are presentations and discussions of psychodynamic theory,  behaviorist theory, humanist theory, cognitive theory, eclecticism,  structuralism and postmodernism. There are also chapters on epistemology,  determinism, reductionism and the nature of science.  Taken as a consumer  guide, I found the book useful. Especially, I found the discussion about  eclecticism (and its hidden assumptions)and about the problems of being too  applied useful.  The book is not only relevant for psychology, but for many  areas in the social sciences. I have used some of the arguments in this  book about library and information studies (se my article &quot;Library and  information science: practice, theory, and philosophical basis&quot; in the  journal Information Processing and Management, vol. 36(3), 2000, pp.  501-531).	2000-05-03
US	50790397	R3MNHQB8Y1Z2CI	1557982414	769422014	Publication Manual of the American Psychological Association, Fourth Edition	Books	3	25	78	N	N	&quot;Unashamedly prescriptive&quot;	A Danish professor in psychology, Franz From, once said about this manual that if he had to follow these rules, he would not be able to contribute to psychology. Franz From represented phenomenological psychology, which did  not consider American behaviorism to be an ideal, contrary to.  It is well  known that there exist different approaches in psychology and the social  sciences. Few people consider, however, that this is not restricted to the  choice of methods and subject matter, but also concerns the way papers are  written and the scientific communication system is designed.  In a way it  is paradoxical, that a manual on how to write psychological papers do not  consider psychological and related research on the writing process.  The  most valuable critique about this manual comes from people who are  connected to COMPOSITION STUDIES, e.g. Charles Bazerman (1988) and the  psychologist Douglas Vipond (1993). There have also been a debate on this  manual in American Psychologist.<br />The view, that there are objective,  neutral rules for human behavior (incl. doing research and writing) can be  termed positivism. The opposite view, that such rules have consequences for  what can be done (and therefore implicit priorities for what should be  done) can be termed non-positivism. In my view positivism simply can be  proved wrong. If we are going to advance psychology or other (social)  sciences we should not built on wrong premises.  My own professional  interest in this manual, and in the epistemological debate about this  manual is connected to my research in information science. Information  science is about storage and retrieval of documents, texts and  &quot;information&quot;. In the coming age of full text electronic  documents we have to know as much as possible about their composition, and  the factors, that influences the way they are composed. Here I find  composition studies to be one important contributor.<br />Bazerman, C.  (1988). Shaping written knowledge: The genre and activity of the  experimental article in science. Madison: University of Wisconsin Press.<br />Hjørland, B. (1997). Information seeking ans subject representation. An  activity theoretical approach to information science. Westport, Connecticut  &amp; London: Greenwood Press.<br />Vipond, D. (1993). Writing and  Psychology. Understanding writing and its teaching from the perspective of  composition studies. Westport, Connecticut &amp; London: Praeger.knowledge: The genre and activity of the  experimental article in science. Madison: University of Wisconsin Press.  <br />Hjørland, B. (1997). Information seeking ans subject representation. An  activity theoretical approach to information science. Westport, Connecticut  &amp; London: Greenwood Press. <br />Vipond, D. (1993). Writing and  Psychology. Understanding writing and its teaching from the perspective of  composition studies. Westport, Connecticut &amp; London: Praeger.	2000-05-02
US	50790397	REGGECQD9LNZL	0631198784	558944262	Relevance: Communication and Cognition	Books	1	19	34	N	N	A problematic understanding of relevance	The understanding of the concept of relevance in this book confused me. I was therefore happy when I read the important article by Talbot (1997), which contains a discussion of the approach suggested by Sperber &amp;  Wilson (1995). Talbot writes, that the drawback of the model suggested by  Sperber &amp; Wilson is that it is an asocial model, a model lacking any  social element. \\"Relevance presents an internationalist view of action. In  it, people are depicted as individuals who confront unique problems in  communication. In the real world, however, people are social beings who are  working within preexisting conventions. This latter view of the language  user and the nature of communication is practiced in studies of discourse  analysis, especially in certain later developments (e.g., Fairclough,  1989).   In Sperber and Wilson's model, differences between people are  depicted solely as differences between individuals` cognitive environments.  These differences are assumed to stem from variations in physical  environment and cognitive ability between people. Considerations of culture  and society are notably absent in the characterization of individuals'  cognitive environments. In Relevance, the authors work with a  \\"commonsensical\\" view of all individuals sharing essentially the same  epistemological organization of the real world.  . . The consequences of  such disregard are serious . . .\\" (Talbot, 1997, p.446). <br />In my own view  a theory about relevance must essentially be an epistemological theory. In  a given domain, there exists differents theories, metatheories,  &quot;paradigms&quot; etc., which in a very strong way implies what is  relevant. In psychology, for example, there is a big difference between  what is regarded relevant by a behaviorist and by a psychoanalyst. You  cannot study relevance neglecting the different &quot;theories&quot; from  which human beings interact with the world. For a longer discussion see my  paper &quot;Relevance research: the missing perspective(s).  &quot;non-relevance&quot; and &quot;epistemological relevance&quot; in  Journal of the American Society for Information Science, 2000, vol. 51, no.  2, pp.209-211.<br />Talbot, M. M. (1997). Relevance. IN: Concise Encyclopedia  of Philosophy of Language. Ed. By P. V. Lamarque &amp; R. E. Asher. (Pp.  445-447). New York: Pergamon.	2000-04-28
US	50790397	R5KCC0WMOD79M	0878451021	454219921	Indexing and Abstracting in Theory and Practice	Books	4	14	16	N	N	The state of the art of Information Science	F.W.Lancaster is a true pioneer in Information Science. He is in my opinion at least among the top ten along with persons such as Eugene Garfield and Patrick Wilson. And in a way he is broader than they are.   This book represents in my view the state of the art of a core area in  information science today. This does not mean, that I am not critical of  it. I have written a long review of this book in the Journal of  Documentation, June 1999, vol. 55, no. 3, pp. 345-351. In this review I  outline how research in this field can be improved. But I believe it will  take a long time before we can replace this book with a better one.	2000-04-28
US	50790397	RHLXCGQ1345CD	157387065X	440204127	33: Annual Review of Information Science and Technology 1998 (Annual Review of Information Science & Technology)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Following the trends in Information Science	Annual reviews are important publications to grasp the overall developments in a science. ARIST is no exception. This is the one source, that provides the best overview of this information science today. Of  course there are omissions and problems in making priorities. I have  discussed this in a long review in Journal of the American Society for  Information Science, vol. 51, no. 7, April 2000, pp. 683-685. In this  review I also compare it with other Annual Reviews and discuss the identity  of information science.	2000-04-28
US	50790397	R3JF5KSD0CM6M7	0872204529	616244485	What Is This Thing Called Science?	Books	3	16	17	N	N	Recommended textbook	I recommend this textbook on the philosophy of science (and I thus disagree with the anonymous review by &quot;A reader from Baltimore, Maryland&quot;, and I do not find anonymous reviews helpful).It is  translated to many languages and fulfils a great need for a textbook. In  shorter courses it is not possible to read all the original works and it is  better to have a short presentation of Thomas Kuhn along with a  presentation of the discussion of and further development of his work.  Chapter 3 on the theory dependence of observation is especially important.  I have used this text in courses and found it useful, although some of the  final chapters are somewhat unclear.  I can think of no other book, which  can replace this one for a shorter course in the philosophy of science for  undergraduates in fields outside philosophy itself. (Compare my review of  Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy).	2000-04-26
US	50790397	RMF7JHPWVS6R1	041516916X	794976181	Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy: CD-ROM with 10-user network license	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Simply indispensable	We bought this encyclopedia set to the Royal School of Library and Information Science in Copenhagen (both the 10 vol. hardbound and the cd-rom version). I simply find it indispensable and so do many of my  colleagues and students. My experience is that this effect comes from the  first glance in this work. We are not using this work as professional  philosophers but as library and information scientists who needs a broad  orientation about fundamental problems related to knowledge, its  production, dissemination and use. In my opinion there is a general trend  in many of the social sciences towards more theoretical and philosophical  foundations. In this process it is extremely important that you have works  that  bring concise introductions to various traditions in thinking and  scientific methodology. The importance of this work is in my view, that it  allows researchers and students in social sciences and other fields to have  a central reference point when we put forward our arguments. <br />This work  is useful along several dimensions. In this review I shall only mention  epistemology and the philosophy of science. We have in all the sciences  (especially in the social sciences, psychology, media and information  sciences) many approaches or &quot;paradigms&quot;, for example: (social)  constructivism, critical realism, empiricism, feminist epistemology,  hermeneutics, historicism, paradigm theory (Thomas Kuhn), Marxist  philosophy of science, critical rationalism (Karl Popper), positivism and  logical positivism, postmodernism and poststructuralism, pragmatism,  rationalism, and realism (with scientific realism and antirealism). One  simply need to be informed about the basic principles behind such  approaches, and the Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy is the only place  where you can get a reasonable detailed and comprehensive overview. Add to  this that every article starts with a summary, and ends with references and  reading lists (often annotated). This is simply a very user friendly  design.  Of course no work can answer all questions, and of course serious  students need much more than this (and of course a few articles is a little  disappointing). This work is, however, an important tool, that in my view  cannot be overestimated. Its real importance is, I think, that it can  strengthen the theoretical approaches in many sciences because it provides  us with a common overview and reference point. When I am introducing or  discussing Library and Information Science, I am trying to connect the  different approaches or paradigms in this field to basic philosophical  questions (se my article &quot;Library and information science: practice,  theory, and philosophical basis in the journal Information Processing and  Management, vol. 36(3), 2000, pp. 501-531). In this way I hope to be able  to contribute to the development of this field. In my opinion all other  fields should benefit in a similar way.  Why is philosophy important for  most fields? Because the empiricist and positivist view is simply wrong.  You cannot produce knowledge from observations alone. You simply have to  consider many theoretical issues which have been clarified through  accumulated experiences.	2000-04-25
US	50790397	R1TEZ9CYMVPCG7	0803977638	606025390	Naming the Mind: How Psychology Found Its Language	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Cleaning up in Psychology	This is a critical book about the development of psychology. It is not a pink description of a development from primitive thinking to present glory, as most books on the subject are. It is almost the opposite. It can be  compared with Stephen Jay Gould's &quot;The Mismeasure of Man&quot; because  it is very critical of main-stream psychology's view of man, its  methodology, language and so on. (In an earlier book from 1990 he described  the statistical methods in psychology as &quot;methodolatry&quot;). There  is no doubt that Danziger is an authority in the history of psychology, and  his researchs has influenced many books in this field. The basic idea in  the present book is that the language of psychology developed as a soft  kind of behaviorism using dependent and independent variables. From a  broader variety of approaches, this &quot;variable psychology&quot; came to  dominate international psychology almost totally, and only in the 1990's  signs of weakenings in this hegemonistic approach seems to appear. The  development of this dominant approach in psychology is explained from using  a kind of social-constructivistic methodology. Psychology developed the way  it did because psychologist allied themselves with school administrators,  the Army, and similar groups. A psychology serving the students, the mental  health patients, and other (end)users would have looked very differently.  This book deserves to be read and discussed widely. I myself have used it  in a paper about &quot;the classification of psychology&quot; in the  journal Knowledge Organization, 1998, 25(4), 162-201.	2000-04-17
US	50790397	RJS5SXVN840FA	0389208078	987485138	Geography: History and Concepts a Student's Guide	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A model text	This book is now out in a third edition (SAGE Publications, 1999). It is a book about geography, but I review it as a model on how an author in one of the (social) sciences can analyze his discipline in a philosophical way.  ------ The book presents different philosophical positions such as  positivism, marxism, structuralism, realism and poststructuralism in a  clear way and describes how such positions have influenced the development  of geography. In my opinion such philosophical analysis of (social)  sciences are rare, but extremely important. I whish I knew of similar  qualified books in all other domains. Such books shows that sciences are  built on assumptions, that can be questioned and they help developing  critical thinking.	2000-01-07
US	50790397	R2AVOTI7ER21SZ	0804727279	994333612	Open the Social Sciences: Report of the Gulbenkian Commission on the Restructuring of the Social Sciences (Mestizo Spaces / Espaces Metisses)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	The Domain(s) of The Social Sciences	This is a short and easily read book about the social sciences, how they evolved, what basic topical and methodological issues defined them, how they found their place between natural science and the humanities, and how  they developed their internal relations. The book is not just descriptive,  but also critical in its analysis. It discusses the special kind of narrow  view that dominates these sciences, and argues for a new organization of  the social sciences. It basic argument is that one cannot meaningfully  study a problem in one of the social sciences without regarding  perspectives from the other.  One could wish some more details of the  single social sciences (e.g. psychology and educational research) and about  epistemological influences (e.g. behaviorism and cognitivism). <br />The book  should be of interest to science studies and to people concerned with the  classification of the sciences and the organization of knowledge. It is one  element in what I have christened &quot;domain analysis&quot; in library  and  information science.	1999-12-28
