US	50808083	R2NDWOC303XQ6A	0192829815	220829589	001: Goethe: The Poet and the Age: Volume I: The Poetry of Desire (1749-1790)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	This one sets a new standard.	There are two points of interest here, one being the life of Goethe, the second being the job that Boyle has done in presenting it.  As to Boyle's work, I would be hard pressed to reconstruct the details of my own life with anything approaching the thoroughness provided here by Boyle.  This is virtually a day to day account from birth to age 40, multidimensionally presented as Boyle meticulously places Goethe in the total context of his environment and provides us with the background to judge the development of the young Goethe as both artist and man.  The faults of this biography, some of them existing by sheer volume and weight of content, are many and obvious.  But, the imperfections are also in my view irrelevant to the tremendous accomplishment of the work as a whole.  First, be informed that Boyle is a first rate intellect who is almost as able as his subject to a clarity of expression and penetrating insight that one finds only in the best minds.  Boyle is possessed of the intellectual talent to provide a synthesis of man, history, environment, religious and philosophical ideas as well as standard universal human values and emotions, which makes this biography unique in its all encompassing presentation of its subject.  It is apparent from the beginning that Boyle is attempting to provide to the reader the development in all phases as Goethe passes through age 40, which is when this book ends.  Secondly, Boyle provides thorough scholarship and obvious effort.  It seems that Boyle has read every published word written by Goethe and much that has been written about him, and in addition to the mere reading has studied and logically glued together and digested the life in all its dimensions.  While many biographies purport the same, the extent taken here appears to me to be unmatched.  The results of this highly energetic undertaking is basically to subsume whatever imperfections exist in the work to give us what undoubtedly is the best biography of Goethe,and, Isuspect, also the best biography, period.  This review would be incomplete without a word about my reaction to Goethe himself, for this is an author who sparks an unusual amount of attention on the other side of the Atlantic, and after reading of the first 40 years of his life I would say the stage had been set by then as to how Goethe would subsequently be called the German Shakespeare.  One of the first to write a biography of Goethe in English was George Henry Lewes, better known as the husband of George Eliot of Middlemarch and Silas Marner fame.  And, I must add, after reading Boyle's work that this is an entertaining and fascinating life backgrounded by a spectacular but little understood German culture of the time, as we witness Goethe, the determined agnostic attempt to find a meaning for his life without religion.  How this is done in the first 40 years provides for the reader a rewarding, entertaining experience, and also much food for thought.	2003-10-08
US	50808083	RDX6V5C05B6BD	0571196535	204604495	Wagner Remembered	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Flawed genius, great book.	Wagner would be 'the man' for opera buffs, but for the non operatic, including this reviewer, Richard Wagner is a footnote in the historical consciousness from whom we hear an occasional note, vaguely associate with some powerful music out of the late 1800s, and ever that disturbing sense of an anti-Semetic presence.  Wagner Remembered brings such vague recollections to life by anthology of sixty something third person accounts about the composer written by friends and acquaintences close in time to some encounter with Wagner.  There are included written impressions by such as Queen Victoria, King Ludwig of Bavaria, Nieztsche, the son Siegried, a memorable erudite rendition by Judith Gautier, all ranging from the mundane such as the furniture in the house or the cut of the clothes to complex analysis of the bombastic personality. Rather than haphazard compilation, it seems that Stewart Spencer gives to us a laborious effort of intense scholarship honed in multiple libraries and academic back alleys, and the result of this unusual format in biographical form is a suprisingly complete picture of the total package.  Spencer is unable to include everything and seems intentionally to omit anything written by Wagner or the wives, treats (as noted) only superficially with the deeper relationships with Berlioz, Nietszche and Liszt, and deals only thinly with the operas.  Also receiving superficial treatment are Wagner's anti-Semetic views, and while from this volume it is clear that he has them, it is unclear whether those views reflect merely the nationalism and isolation of those times, or whether Wagner and this admitted and advertised prejudice from a position of influence contribute in part to the conflagration that was to come.  What does transpire in Wagner Remembered is something we all recognize, namely that our perfect expectation of mental genius is too frequently disappointed as we are presented simultaneously with a kind and thoughtful gentleman, but also an intellectual bully, philanderer on both his wives, and unrepentant deadbeat, who viewed his mental qualities as placing him above the ordinary milieu.  Perhaps Wagner was correct in this view of himself.  Certainly the quintessential experience of listening to a Wagner prelude creates to some extent the illusion or reality, take your pick, that the enormous talent does overshadow everything else.  Credit Stewart Spencer with giving us an splendidly successful volume about a fascinating life.	2002-04-23
US	50808083	R2OYDECWJ3HHYK	0393972828	980949698	Faust: A Tragedy (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	5	120	126	N	N	Five bright stars.	\\"Vainly in the day time labored, pick and shovel, clink and strike.\\" Goethe worked on Faust for much of his career, but composed some of the best of Part II in a time of life when most are in their rocking chairs or in the intensive care ward of the local nursing home. Goethe in his late seventies and early eighties would rise in the early dawn and compose some of the best poetry written. \\"I would elevate my mind to a kind of productivity which brought all this forth, in a full state of consciousness and which pleases me still, even though perhaps I could never swim again in such a river.\\" It has been said that German poetry is difficult to translate or untranslatable, and this seems true with some translations of Faust, but the Norton contains a superb effort by Walter Arndt which appears always so on the mark that one suspects Arndt actually embellishes the German, but, rather than quibble over accuracy, it is all so good you will hardly care. Goethe builds upon the medieval Faust legend as a skeleton for his own writing in epic-poem style with various meter fashioned to fit the subject. Faust, weary of the ways of the world (one can almost hear the 60s hippy) embarks on a journey of self-discovery, skirt chasing and empire building finally ending in his 100th year in the ultimate trip, with a little help from his friend, Goethe. This composition is remarkable in innumerable ways. One can use a thesaurus of superlatives: wonderful imagery, perfect choice of words, peerless imagination, beautiful poetry, a unity to the whole which is memorable, as well as numerous wonderful scenes and lines, and always an intelligence that seems to absorb and understand everything. Of course, one can differ with Goethe philosophically. There are other angles from which to view life than Faust and his Mephistophelean foil. And Faust, which contains all the universal ingredients, can be faulted at times, dwelling too much on the antique philosophy, politics and literary questions which interested Goethe in his long life. But all this seems irrelevant to Faust as a work of art, permanently canonized for its beauty and writing alone, whatever disparagement or praise one might hold for its meaning or content. The Norton Edition is edited by Cyrus Hamlin whose interpretive notes are scholarly, contain a subtle respect for Goethe, and are in themselves a book worth reading. The selections of Goethe comment and scholarship range from the brilliant to the outer eliptics of literary criticism, and the included illustrations and Goethe letters on composition are a nice touch. The work of Hamlin and the Arndt translation which here frame Goethe as the main event make the Norton Critical Edition of Faust (2000) one of the better books one is likely to pick up.	2002-04-03
US	50808083	R2QE3JHW5BKDAF	0385031149	132943002	Goethe's Faust	Books	2	21	41	N	N	Questionable playing!	This review and the stars are limited to the Kaufmann translation rather than the substance of Faust.  Though confessing personal irritation as to reviews dealing with translation (for after all, who cares, and we would rather have your learned opinion of the book, please), after enduring this translation, I have happily passed the forgoing neophyte point of view, being here subject, as one in a symphonic pit, to questionable playing destroying some very good music.  One hesitantly criticizes a dead man(Kaufmann) credited with such a large and apparently well done body of work (though Kaufmann's translation of Heine appearing in Norton Second Edition of Faust (2001) is similarly scrummed up.),including Kaufmann's introduction here, which takes pain to reveal that translators take liberties with Goethe, but that the Kaufmann translation is faithful and literal, where possible.  But, like a gullible freshman, Kaufmann sets himself up by (laudably) including on the left the original German so that line by line comparison with his translation on the right is possible, at least for those with rudimentary German.  Proceeding on past the intro, and faced with the constant page by page temptation to actually read the German, suspicions of &quot;mistakes&quot;, and more disturbingly an awkward and tortured text begin their insidious accumulation.  Such problems the reader is to attribute directly to Goethe, for Kaufman has warned in his intro &quot; Goethe was not always at his best&quot;, that Goethe's style is like &quot;sapphires in the mud&quot; with a lot of mud and an occasional sapphire, and further, forwarding the implication that much of Part II is only questionably worth persevering through, a statement which might be big news to some very reputable critics.  The phalacy of blaming Goethe becomes palpable, even shocking, on comparison of the Kaufmann with the Walter Arndt translation in the Norton Second Edition, and also by reading of Goethe's letters and conversations in the Norton which reveal with certitude the always eloquent writing of this genius who took such obvious pains to communicate artistically and clearly his every word.  Where Kaufmann is clumsy, off the mark, constantly mistranslating basic German words, and misinterpreting meaning so as to cause impossibility in understanding, the exact same lines in the Norton are understandable, poetic and eloquent.  These are two different books, one hesitant, choppy and questionably accurate, while the other appears to create in English the masterpiece that is Faust.  Recognizing that any translation is at least partly a matter of individual preference and taste, this reviewer would nevertheless have to recommend at least a glance at the Norton prior to spending the considerable time necessary to make it through this timeless classic.	2001-12-16
US	50808083	R3ALWZA48UVVJZ	067973225X	161451712	As I Lay Dying: The Corrected Text	Books	3	3	7	N	N	&quot;Stupidity can be catching&quot;	This book deals with the death of a parent, a story which hits home for most of us, but Faulkner's boast that he would write this in six weeks and never have to put pen to paper again is placed in perspective by considering the same subject in other hands.  Hamlet's soliloquy at the burial of Ophelia; the consternations of Leopold Bloom (*Ulysses*) at the Dingham's funeral; the death of the father in Balzac's *Pere Giorget* come to mind as eloquent treatments of death, and do cause considerable puzzlement as what Faulkner might have been drinking when he made his boast.  Faulkner admittedly in this early work displays a gift for originality, interesting surprises and twists of plot.  Addie's death takes on a homespun 'life must go on' impact with which one can identify, and we see a perspective and point of view as the pitiful Bundren clan persevere through every imaginable insult.  And, Faulkner creates picture images which stick to the ribs.  Can one forget the mule's feet sticking out of the river; the buzzards following the stench; or the new bride walking out almost before the old one is buried.  Nevertheless, it is difficult to view Faulner's novel as other than poaching on sacred territory by a lesser author who questionably renders justice to his subject.  The weaknesses here begin with stream of consciousness in sophomoric dumbed down prose reminding of such as Joyce only in in wild imagination.  One easily inhales this without dictionary, without thesaurus, and in need of a search warrant to find a truly intelligent sentence or memorable line.  After creation of imagery, we suppose that somewhere Faulkner will really strike a chord.  But what we get is something like &quot;My mother is a fish&quot; or imbeciles constructing a coffin under their dying mother's nose.  Adjectives such as crude, defective, drunk, some to mind.  After the imagery expires, what really is left of As I Lay Dying?	2001-10-30
US	50808083	R2QDPW3HKKUBCQ	0140422072	965481570	The Faerie Queene	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The writing and the artistry save the day.	&quot;For the method of a poet historical is not such as of an historiographer; for an historiographer discourseth of affairs orderly as they were done, accounting as well the times as the actions; but a poet thrusteth into the midst even where it most concerneth him, and there recoursing to the things forepast, and divining of things to come, makes a pleasing analysis of it all&quot;<br />Spenser wrote a letter to Walter Raleigh (above excerpted) to explain this strange cacophony of FQ, a mixture of ancient mythology, Renaissance Christian morality and enough obscure symbolism for an academic brigade; a tribute to country and  queen. Knights from the court of the Faerie Queen conduct a search and destroy mission against evil in the form of a pack of minor villains pecking away at the heroes of the poem, but each one perpetually foiled. Such as Archimago, the witch Hectate, the philanderer Malbecco receive comeuppances in jousts, internecine squabbles or palace tours, with this type of constant action occupying canto after canto that at some point the content aspect becomes a bit wearisome.  Amid this &quot;action&quot; are endless lists of virtues allegorized in each book, the reader being skewered to a Platonic ideal especially evident in females with such as the knight Britomart representing strenght and accomplishment in women, Una, the ultimate fantasy chick, and several others with such heights of description one does expect something mind blowing ahead, perhaps at last the perfect woman, to which in FQ Spenser comes close without cigar.  The joust with the evil forces of nature seems unique to Spenser, who seizes the reader by the lapels with an in one's face style of optimism such that worst elements suffer defeat by contrast with more worthy opponents.  There is little in FQ of the the weird, off the wall bastardizations of human nature being written almost at the same time by the playwright down the road. This world of Spenser's appears mostly black and white, and totally devoid of the perceptual uncertainty or moral relativity of a Lear or Hamlet, though one senses toward the end with introduction of &quot;mutability&quot; a weakening in the poet: &quot;Then since within this wide, great universe nothing does firm and permanent appear.&quot; It is faint criticism of genius to call FQ a shade below the top with its questionable, archaic content simply outweighed subsequently, but for the glaring and obvious truth that this is some of the greatest poetry that has been written by one of the best poets.  FQ is saved by its lyrical verse, by the brilliance of its expression; by the talent of this tremendous intellect to place into rhyme over hundreds of pages such enormous complexity of expression. To call this accomplishment &quot;a pleasing analysis&quot; though as well said as the rest of this poem, is understatement. Shakespeare tends to stir with eerie omniscient intellect, and Spenser does the same, but in a tone and manner so sharply in contrast. FQ contains cleverness, insight, a piercing intelligence, but all rendered with such brushstrokes of eloquence as is simply unequaled. As happens too often, Spenser died before he finished, and one speculates had he lived what else might have been &quot;thrustest into the midst&quot;.	2001-10-01
US	50808083	R2GNVP9B5LNZLW	157322751X	144250243	Shakespeare: The Invention of the Human	Books	5	6	12	N	N	an ultimate book?  this comes very close.	Shakespeare invents the human quite simply because Shakespeare was possessed of the broadest intelligence in history, and he used that intelligence to deal with the human personality, which is after all the essence of being human.  Did he so invent.  Mr.Bloom concludes, &quot;It is merely true.&quot;  Every author prior to Shakespeare including his precursor, Mr.Chaucer, and since--under Bloom's comprehensive analysis--failed to place in writing the depth of human personality accomplished in the plays.  The total complexity, the vast scope, the very transcendence of the central meaning and purpose of life has yet to be stamped on the page by anyone with the comprehension of William Shakespeare.<br />At first in Bloom's book this reviewer believed that Bloom meant that Shakespeare invented the human personality in literature, a thought much easier to understand.  But, it becomes clear as one reads that Bloom intends also that this &quot;invention&quot; is a physical embodiment in our very lives for simply, the invention of &quot;human&quot; means a living mind which can fulfill itself completely only if it first possess the depth of understanding only displayed and elaborated in Shakespeare.  Shakespeare took the human piece of clay, identified its intellectual universe, and placed it there to deal as only the mind of Shakespeare has ever been able.  And for those who say well you overlooked this author and that author, Mr. Bloom presents the relevant excerpts from all the plays, and on reading, it is difficult to impossible to dispute.  Basically, Mr. Bloom goes through play after play after play, and makes his case.<br />As to the book itself, this reviewer initially skipped around, reading a chapter here and there annoyed with the much mentioned excesses, but at some point decided to read the book from first word to last.  Reading the book straight through one gains a far expanded perspective.  It is believed here that there is only one possible fair minded reaction to this book, which is that it is one of the most well written, well thought out, stunningly brilliant bits of scholarship yet written.  In addition to all of his gifts, Professor Bloom has that ability of common sense, the knack of putting everything into absolutely clear perspective, sensing every concern.  One reads here brilliant analysis after brilliant analysis, and just when we are thinking that both Bloom and Shakespeare must be exhausted, we find that both have saved the best for last.  Bloom's reviews of Cymbeline, Winters Tale, Tempest, crescendo in their insight, and probably the last play, The Two Noble Kinsmen is at the very summit of Bloom's attempts through these final plays to surmise the consciousness of Shakespeare himself.<br />It is unnecessary to be a bardoleter to appreciate Bloom. One can recognize the dour pessimism and sometimes bizarre subject matter of William Shakespeare.  But one can still value the journey on which Bloom takes us here, the very ultimate of teachers, he shows us there is so very much to learn.	2001-02-18
US	50808083	R202T8IAN0XBNC	0811213064	51695532	On the Edge of Reason (Revived Modern Classic)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Talented writer; excellent book.	Occasionally one stumbles onto an book or author finding something special.  On the Edge of Reason certainly falls into this category for it possesses a quality and intelligence one rarely encounters.  Interpretation of the story is difficult simply because it emcompasses so much with Kreleza writing in an omnicient style tending eventually to answer its own questions and resolving every thought by broad consideration and rare insight. Kreleza's perspective in centering his tale on &quot;human folly&quot; seems both original because of unique intelligent presentation, and also age old because certainly human stupidty has been dealt with before.   One is reminded of Lear's &quot;stage of fools&quot;; Macbeth's &quot;parade of idiots&quot; and from Henry IV &quot;in everything the purpose must weigh with the folly&quot;.  The narrator's struggles create a sense of intense deja vu, for we have all been there, maybe in a less protracted sense, but this is simultaneously a story both unique and common.  Certainly one keeps coming back as one reads to A Man for All Seasons, as our narrator displays all the attributes of Thomas Moore, in far less heroic style. By the end we find a far broader context than bare human folly, as On the Edge of Reason becomes a complex tale of the dilemas and contradictions one faces in life, with an understated ending that leaves one just shaking the head.  It is doubtful, and the reviews seem to indicate this, that one can read on the Edge of Reason without being at least somewhat blown away.  The book is that well done, and certainly deserving of much wide recognition.	2001-02-15
US	50808083	RH9M9A0E9LHNX	0156495899	179633092	Lectures on Literature	Books	3	32	49	N	N	Pull up a chair	These lectures given by Mr. Nabokov at Cornell in the 50s and 60s are so faithfully transcribed complete with doodlings and scratchings that one can visualize the author amid a squadron of freshly scrubbed sophomores inquiring whether anyone managed to stay awake through the first 500 pages of Bleak House.  Immediately coming through here is the time and effort given by Nabokov in putting these lectures together as well as his obvious enthusiasm, knowledge and intelligence for his subject matter.<br />The substantive content, while helpful, especially to a dabbler in literature as myself, lucid, well given, and well constructed, was somewhat disappointing perhaps more due to my own expectations than any deficiency in the work itself.  Nabokov immediately limits himself by noting that any ass could decipher the opinions of the various authors on the important questions of the day, and that he, Nabokov, would confine his comments to plot, structure and style.  Good as far as it goes for such authors as Austen and Stevenson, but for me a purely mechanical approach with such as Kafka, Dickens and Joyce, where it seems to me to omit where these fit into a philosophical, psychological, or historical framework ignores much of the value of their work.<br />So, rather than comments on the beginnings of existential literature which I peceive in Bleak House, we get a Nabokov almost totally transfixd by plot with some limited ad hoc comments about structure and style, which, while interesting, are also basically useless, both because Nabokov fails with any consistent approach from work to worik, but also because the comments lack any kind of comparative analysis relating to e.g. quality, artistry or ability.<br />Neverthless, Nabokov certainly is excellent in his explanation of plot of six well known works.  We get maps of Dublin, a drawing of the rooms in Metamorphosis, a schematic of the position of various characters at the parties of Mansfield Park, as well as the author'sown selected passages to illustrate the construction of the story--all of which aid in understanding especially adding to what we might have missed in our own reading.  To be fair, Mr. Nabokov does occasionally make comments regarding any perceived merit or deficiency in the works, e.g. when absorbing Ulysses one might be questioning the rave reviews of that particular work, and indeed Nabokov here and there hints at certain shorcomings in Joyce as a writer and Ullysses as a great book.  But this type of more penetrating analysis is much too rare for lectures given by a noted author, noted professor of literature at an Ivy League school.  All in all, interesting, glad we read, but incomplete work by this charismatic literary personality.	2000-12-21
US	50808083	RMHRGLA7NQ7WV	0553214047	247841222	A Portrait of the Artist As a Young Man	Books	3	1	1	N	N	mild interest here	Upon finishing Portrait one understands much better Joyce's seguay into Ulysses.  Ulysses turns ordinary people in an ordinary day into an experimental novel.  Portrait, much the same, uses the very ordinary life of its author as a model for the main character.  Unlike Ulysses, Portrait simply fails to generate a whole lot of interest, unless one is specifically enthralled with the relation of young men to their priests, or interested in the mundane conversations of university students.  The book begins strongly enough with a clever rendition of the earliest years of Stephen Daedelus. But, as the book curves more to Joyce's struggles with his Catholic upbringing, my interest begain to wain, and by the end, suspecting Joyce had lost enthusiasm in his own book, I was quite happy to have only a few more pargraphs before me.  Now, I have an equal disinterest in sailing, but have read books on sailing which captured my interest against my will.  Portrait never reaches this point, and while understanding it on an intellectual level, for me there is a distinct lack of passion, drama, story line, or the basic subtle artistry that makes for a good book. There were some high points highlighted by a sermon so explicit an exposition of the Christian Religion as to expose that religion.  Certainly Joyce with this rendition of the sermon proves his ability to outwrite and outpersuade anybody who had written of Christiantity to date, and so flashes a bit of his great talent.  In the end, I felt that Portrait contained a few very well written parts, and while the writing certainly is on a high plain, in the panopy of literature this was barely average.	2000-12-06
US	50808083	R3A8HU58VH5LAY	0553214047	247841222	A Portrait of the Artist As a Young Man	Books	3	2	5	N	N	mild interest here	Upon finishing Portrait one understands much better Joyce's seguay into Ulysses.  Ulysses turns ordinary people in an ordinary day into an experimental novel.  Portrait, much the same, uses the very ordinary life of its author as a model for the main character.  Unlike Ulysses, Portrait simply fails to generate a whole lot of interest, unless one is specifically enthralled with the relation of young men to their priests, or interested in the mundane conversations of university students.  The book begins strongly enough with a clever rendition of the earliest years of Stephen Daedelus. But, as the book curves more to Joyce's struggles with his Catholic upbringing, my interest begain to wain, and by the end, suspecting Joyce had lost interest in his own book, I was quite happy to have only a few more pargraphs before me.  Now, I have an equal disinterest in sailing, but have read books on sailing which captured my interest against my will.  Portrait never reaches this point, and while understanding it on an intellectual level, for me there is a distinct lack of pashion, drama, story line, or the basic subtle artistry that makes for a good book. There were some high points highlighted by a sermon so explicit an exposition of the Christian Religion as to expose that religion.  Certainly Joyce with this rendition of the sermon proves his ability to outwrite and outpersuade anybody who had written of Christiantity to date, and so flashes a bit of his great talent.  In the end, I felt that Portrait contained a few very well written parts, and while the writing certainly is on a high plain, in the panopy of literature this was barely average.	2000-12-06
US	50808083	R1VTTZF1EUYDQD	0140282025	132792490	The Age of Spiritual Machines: When Computers Exceed Human Intelligence	Books	5	22	23	N	N	you've got to be kidding	I read an excerpt from this outstanding book in the magazine Scientific American about a year ago, causing me immediate future shock, now exacerbated and expanded upon reading the entire book.<br />If you read the last chapters first it would be easy to conclude that Mr. Kurzweil is crazy. However, we have here an obviously highly educated computer scientist, successful business person, and superb writer, who also apparently has spent significant time and personal engergy considering the implications of our present science.  Given the attributes and qualifications of this author, the substantive content of the book then becomes extremely difficult to ignore or dismiss, and I certainly wonder when the implications here presented will begin to create the expected anxiety among our general population.<br />Mr. Kurzweil carefully sets the stage for his various futurist predictions.  He presents a most interesting history of computer science; an intro to the law of &quot;chaos&quot; theory, and a rendition of the theory of evolution intelligent enough to permanently stifle any creationist; a comprehensive, informative explanation of both machine and human intelligence, which upon reading, I finally understand the mental machinations of my animals and of myself--call it &quot;consciousness explained&quot;, and we are made aware of its scientific limits and possibilities.  And, for those who have any question at all that machine intelligence equivalent to human intelligence is possible, Mr. Kurzweil breaks it down into both understandable and frightening reality.<br />The book examines the present state of knowledge regarding both human and computer intelligence from the established technology to the most esoteric research, and then proceeds to project where all this will take us on a timeline ending in the year 2099.<br />Mr. Kurzweil several times states his own optimism about what he projects and predicts, but in truth can his surmises suppose anything but the end of the human race as we know it.  Mr. Kurzweil has machines going to church, a mother merging with her computer, human brains which become software programs, and on and on.  Thankfully Kurzweil ends at the year 2099, since for me one of the unwritten implications of going further would be to question what really is the difference between God and Kurzweil's machines.	2000-12-01
US	50808083	R2Y66O5DMIHJ15	092934619X	859415854	Training Thoroughbred Horses	Books	5	31	31	N	N	Superb	Impossible that present day horses would beat any horse trained by Preston Burch.  Just read the exercise prescriptions in this book and be blown away.  I certainly was.  Here is carefully controlled training by a trainer understanding that his horses are participating in an athletic event.  This is a book about conditioning equine athletes and also contains every other aspect of training and caring for thoroughbred race horses in a well written book by an individual who apparently understood the great care required.  I held off reading this fearing it was dated, but what a pleasant surprise to find the extreme if succinct comprehensiveness here, every aspect is covered by a fellow who tried to do everything correctly.  This is Ivers before Ivers, and one does wonder whatever happened to trainers like Max Hirsch and Preston Burch.	2000-11-26
US	50808083	R2CRZ6M67981KH	0192836226	342577083	A Sentimental Education: The Story of a Young Man (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	3	4	30	N	N	x	A decently written novel of Paris, 1840s, centers on young student Frederic Moreau matriculating through 10 years of his young life amid personal struggles and tumultuous revolutionary period in France.  Various characters pop in and out, all possessing presumed intelligence, and quirky &quot;with it&quot; personalities.  There are artists, editors, students, lawyers, bohemians, politicos, sharing common friendship, daily chat sessions, a little coterie of characters reminding of Greenwich Village 1960.  The stage is set for a series of interesting interactions between Paris intellectuals with multiple possibilities for a powerful story.  Even the title here suggests a subtlety of creativity and art.  In my opinion, Flaubert falls far short of potential here, and my maximum comment re the book is that it is somewhat cute.  The author fails to develop the characters.  We get bits and pieces but finish without full understanding of any of them.  The story line basically degenerates to Frederic Moreau's seduction of various women, mostly other men's wifes with the modus operendi being befriend the husband, seduce the wife.  In the end, with the protagonist's 100% failure rate, we have &quot;Sentimental Education&quot; I suppose.   But despite the cuteness, the basic story is of hypocrisy and the ironic disgusting behavior of the main character all without comment by the author.  Little to redeem this and very forgettable.	2000-11-08
US	50808083	RJIWH0NNWZYUM	0679722769	705442339	Ulysses	Books	5	1	1	N	N	x	Preface by stating difficulty of full appreciation and fair comment on Ulysses on first reading.  One proceeds ungrounded in the various contexts exposed to the author's unique and various styles wherein apparently Joyce attempts creation of reality by limiting his writing to the thoughts and communications of his characters without the crutches of traditional literature.  Unknown to me why Joyce chose this particular style, though I speculate he must have wanted to illustrate the irrational nature of the thought process, and perhaps to show off the workings of his own mind.  Joyce combines this method with what seems a deliberate effort of obscurity rather than clarity, complexity rather than simplicity, often degenerating into incoherence.  He flits about continuously over dozens of subjects within the same page, and most often seems unwilling, or perhaps unable, to bring it all together causing frequent head scratchings for the skeptical reader.  But in all this is an author so obviously brilliant that you chug on even when hopelessly lost, always expecting the bells to chime and lights to come on.  There are many well done scenes, for me--the first chapter of young men bantering, the classroom in chapter 2, poignant expression of husband and wife relations with bloom and molly in the bedroom, and bloom back in bed after a night of carousing; an ending soliloquy that finally puts women in their place, and could that have been done more effectively--all rendered in writing flashing ability equivalent to the all time best.  An imperfect book, but as many reviews note, it is a book on so many levels that generalization is impossible.  I will appreciate Ulysses for what I believed it was, which is a lighthearted humorous thought provoking exposition in the style of the author of his own significant gifts.	2000-09-20
US	50808083	R3Q8LO2R18DGE7	0060183918	218042172	Your Miracle Brain: Dramatic New Scientific Evidence Reveals How You Can Use Food and Supplements To: Maximize Brain Power, Boost Your Memory, Lift ... Creativity, Prevent and Reverse Mental Aging	Books	5	24	27	N	N	RESOUNDING THUMBS UP	That this book is anything but the best seller to beat all best sellers  reaches astonishment.  Every person on the planet ought, needs to, has to  read this book, the issue being quality of life through improvement of  cognitive functioning.  The good (great) news:  the knowledge presented  here will improve the way you think.<br />Carper moves into an apparent vacuum  in the medical community which appears to me bent on keeping the lid on  amazing new discoveries.  But this book gives a full account.<br />Ms. Carper  summarizes the lastest scientific information on nutrition and brain  research.  With regard to each specific area she discusses the knowledge  available; the mechanics, the dosage; expected results; etc.  She cites the  studies in support, but alas leaves the reader to discover the problems. We  are presented with a number of reputable scientists, doctors and brain  researchers.  This one conducting studies on Omega 3; that one on Vitamin  C; the next one on alpha lipoic acid and so on.  The way Carper presents,  each of these researchers has a pet project usually limited to a single  dimension, and the number of persons she cites who put all this into a  program is zero, this is left to medical writer Carper--a commentary on the  state of our science.  Ms. Carper does present her own conclusionary  chapter--without citing any research on the conclusions probably because we  are currently without--but we are left to wonder and decide for ourselves  whether we should be doing and taking everything or just some.  She fails  to include a chapter on what is unknown, the possible harmful effects of  various combos, etc.  ONE THING THOUGH IS CLEAR.  THERE IS A LOT ABOUT THE  BRAIN THAT IS UNKNOWN TO MOST PEOPLE, HERE PRESENTED, AND THUS A RESOUNDING  THUMBS UP!	2000-09-14
US	50808083	R24C5LY3POGDQN	0316511579	722335551	The Year 1000: What Life Was Like at the Turn of the First Millennium, An Englishman's World	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Y1K	Interesting comparison here of our present age with the year 1000 in  Anglo-Saxon Engla-Lond.  The work distinguishes itself from other  historical work of the same era by using the hook of comparing millennium  to millennium, and as such the authors legitimately focus on the year 1000,  the time of the Viking longboats, Danes, Ethrelred the Unready, and Y1K in  the person of the Anti-Christ.  This book is crammed full of information  about every aspect of life in the year 1000 with the authors providing the  available historical information, which is scanty, and filing in the blanks  with their own substantial insight an imagination.  Primarily this book is  entertaining due to its timeliness, as I might have had somewhat less  intense interest in the time period but for the second millennium, and the  authors do a superb job of providing that entertainment, but do so with a  background of obvious research in a scholarly style still light enough to  be enjoyed by all.	2000-08-09
US	50808083	RSTRUUZLGDT0F	0914061542	114213287	Hadji Murad	Books	2	2	10	N	N	Chechnia 1852	High expectations of this little book, the last published of Leo Tolstoy.  Read War and Peace, read AK, read a few reviews on this.  The book starts  out nicely enough with a narrator relating story of a flower that on being  picked refuses to expire.  Definitely some story telling ability behind  this, but I kept expecting this little book with multiple obvious  possibilities to crescendo into something much more than it ever became.   Initially I questioned the translation with its many obvious errors  thinking perhaps here Tolstoy was left behind in the Russian.  We have sort  of a plain straightforward prose which rarely embellishes, and simply fails  to achieve the high art and imagination expected of this author.  Hajiid, a  devout Muslim, is caught in the cross fire between the Russian invaders and  his own Inman Shamil, who is after his scalp.  Hajiid defects to the  Russians then back again, to which the russians take unkindly, ending with  the hero's unexpected but brave demise.  Essentially, despite his  devoutness this is a man amid the law of the jungle set on pursuing his own  self interest.  I suppose Tolstoy saw in Hajiid Murad the energy and will  to live of the flower, but my reaction by the end was a little bit ho hum.	2000-08-09
US	50808083	R11NP4AX8OLHWU	0316511579	722335551	The Year 1000: What Life Was Like at the Turn of the First Millennium, An Englishman's World	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Y1K	Interesting comparison here of our present age with the year 1000 in  Anglo-Saxon Engla-Lond.  The work distinguishes itself from other  historical work of the same era by using the hook of comparing millennium  to millennium, and as such the authors legitimately focus on the year 1000,  the time of the Viking longboats, Danes, Ethrelred the Unready, and Y1K in  the person of the Anti-Christ.  This book is crammed full of information  about every aspect of life in the year 1000 with the authors providing the  available historical remnants, which are scanty, and filing in the blanks  with their own substantial insight and imagination.  Primarily this book is  entertaining due to its timeliness, as I might have had somewhat less  intense interest in the time period but for the second millennium, and the  authors do a superb job of providing that entertainment, but do so with a  background of obvious research in a scholarly style still light enough to  be enjoyed by all.	2000-08-09
US	50808083	R2ULQO2VEGQJHN	1884475019	354871593	Backyard Race Horse: The Training Manual, a Comprehensive Off-Track Program for Owners and Trainers	Books	5	15	16	N	N	An excellent informative book	It takes an unbelieveable amount of time, effort, and money toget your racehorse across the finish line.  Most racehorse owners turntheir animals and their money and unconditional control over to the racetrack trainer, usually to have the animal return to them injured, most permanently, within a 6 month period.  Ms. Castillo, via this excellent book, provides an alternative in her own experience of training horses on her farm.  The book is both a how to manual for the beginner and a comparative analysis for the experienced.  Ms. Castillo takes you through her training, a to z in great detail.  You may argue with her technique or you may question her methods, but I found the information provided invaluable and for myself inspirational to my own training efforts.  Ms. Castillo relates how to overcome every obstacle an owner may face in training their own animals, and she is a welcome pioneer promoting her unique idea--instead of pouring money down the toilet with the local track trainer, a practice which ejects owners from the business usually within a couple of years, instead for those thousands and thousands of horse owners, train your own!  It could hardly get any better than that.	2000-05-31
US	50808083	RRY7H7ER3ZRMH	0451526384	569473707	Persuasion	Books	3	2	5	N	N	persuaded with reservations	This book might have been a small chapter of a tremendous book.  Perhaps it was curtailed by intent.  A shallow, somewhat childish plot serves as background for significant character development of Anne Elliot, initially  portrayed as a shy retiring late 20s wallflower, but every character,  including her Wentworth, view Anne as an intelligent obviously gorgeous  woman.  What we do have in Persuasion is the admirable psychological  manipulation by Anne of her own environment, and though we may be less than  entranced by a tale of the English idle rich, we do have a woman of strong  mind weaving through a soap opera society of parties, walks by the sea and  cards. If able to ignore the vacuous background of the novel, we have good,  somewhat humorless auto-pilot type writing showing perhaps more potential  than actual accomplishment.  I read Pride and Prejudice 30 years ago and  remember absolutely nothing about it except that I liked the book.   Persuasion very likely will leave a similar impression.	2000-05-16
US	50808083	ROGGVCQQKSJU9	0929346327	491790161	Traits of a Winner: The Formula for Developing Thoroughbred Racehorses	Books	3	11	12	N	N	worthwhile	This is a book by a very conventional trainer about the training and care of Unbridled to win the Derby and Breeder's Cup.  Mr. Nafzger sets out the training program of Unbridled, and for his stable, and as such the book  gives a valuable insight into the methods of one successful trainer.  I  think Mr.Nafzger is to be congratulated and thanked for putting all this in  writing.  If you want to know how the majority of your trainers at the race  track operate, this book is most instructive.	2000-05-01
US	50808083	R3EFTA0HT04L58	0802150241	26587324	Endgame: A Play in One Act and Act Without Words	Books	3	6	10	N	N	total eclipse	A reader as myself would hesitate to review this play which requires the schollar.  So, last having read existential philosphy 30 years ago, my impressions serve as my limited contribution. End Game qualifies as unique  illustration of a manner of thinking, and as such I would agree this play  powerfully contributes. What more dramatic way to illustrate  hopelessness,purposelessness,and every deficiency  than this play, the  ultimate absurdity.  In fact it is somewhat ridiculous to continue reading  on after the first couple of pages.  The content here is that we are  without content, the epitome so to speak of meaninglessness.  Is this some  great drama? One would suspect many ordinary writers  capable or more  capable of the dramatic and written achievement, and so I have difficulty  proclaiming excessive fame to this author on this play.  End Game seems  more an illustration or example than an great achievement; a progression  (purgation?)rather than tour de force; a segue of philosophy to the stage,  but falling short of quality I normally would subscribe to a great work of  art.	2000-04-16
US	50808083	R2EQH1KQW2UA3O	0140433880	3653538	Middlemarch (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	insufficient superlatives	I'll add my own impressions that every prospective husband and wife, and every husband and wife should read this book.  It's been noted that Middlemarch contains some of the finest scenes of married life  written.   Criticism serves to place this work with the greatest of classics.  In that  perspective I only felt Middlemarch short of Shakespearean omnicience and  less sweeping and broad in power than some of the Russian stuff.  Elliot's  machine gun intellect, present in every word, sentence and page, requires  intense concentration reducing a little my ability to reflect and enjoy as  I read.  But the code word here is &quot;brilliant&quot; or substitute any  similar adjective for this most enjoyable and worthwhile book.	2000-03-30
US	50808083	R15ELJU3LMSKCM	1884475019	354871593	Backyard Race Horse: The Training Manual, a Comprehensive Off-Track Program for Owners and Trainers	Books	4	5	5	N	N	very worthwhile	I respectfully differ with the last prior review.  Back Yard Race Horse very truly does aim itself more toward the horse racing novice, but that seems to be an intent, rather than a fault.  The book is just superb in its  all inclusive information on every aspect of horse care, training, and the  race track.  And for the experienced trackster Ms. De Castillo at the very  least will provide you with comparative information by which you may either  agree or disagree or evaluate your own program. Backyard Race Horse  additionally sets out a program for those who are unable to train at the  racetrack, and as such, rather than being pretentious or pushing a program,  merely sets out the backyard experience of its author.  She shows how she  did it, and demonstrates that it can be done.  And finally, and most  valuably  Ms. De Castillo pioneers the benefits to horse racing of  recruiting the hundreds of thousands of potential backyarders into the  sport.  This is an excellent book, well written, informative, and highly  recommended.	2000-03-30
US	50808083	R2CF6U1WRTUUV4	0061013838	846900747	The Miracle Heart : The Ultimate Guide to Preventing and Curing Heart Disease With Diet and Supplements	Books	4	22	23	N	N	very informative	This book summarizes much of the latest research on prevention of cardiovascular related diseases.  The author covers almost all (forgot, e.g. &quot;melatonin&quot;) of the bases in relating the latest  developments in diet related heart disease prevention, and as such I found  it an excellent informative book.  The author reports the studies, the  results, the recommendations and the dosages relating to supplementation of  vitamins, minerals, some herbal products, omega 3, etc. etc.  The book  contains new information that I believe has yet to be widely disemminated..   I discern the same weakness in this book as in much of the current  information on diet, to wit, how to combine all  into a single plan of  treatment.  The author might have reported to us that studies have yet to  be done on how these divergent benefits of supplements can be  advantageously and safely combined, but instead omitted any such  discussion.   Additionally, and I note this as another suspected weakness  in my mind of the medical work currently being done on diet, it seems that  all of the information is coming out of what I consider to be highly  suspicious &quot;population&quot; studies, as opposed to research on  individuals( or  monkees) on the chemical effects on a single individual of  supplementation.  If I am going to take 1000 grams of vitamin C per day, I  would like to know the immediate and long term chemical effect, as opposed  to knowing that 6000 people lowered their risk of heart attack by 19% by so  taking.  And, then, immediately after reading the book, what do we get but  one study concluding  that excess C contributes to, rather than prevents,  the problem.  But as an educational tool this is a very fine effort!	2000-03-16
US	50808083	R3019CCM7HOIS8	093584208X	968684514	The Fit Racehorse II	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Race Horse Owners' Alert	Your trainer will injure every horse in the shedrow, most within 90 days, guaranteed.  According to Tom Ivers our race horses lack the physical conditioning necessary to perform what they are being asked to perform.   And hence, Fit Race Horse I (1983) to Fit Race Horse II, and all the superb  tapes, newsletters, books and lectures in between.  The best Ivers' book  was the original with its witty insight into the sport.  The Race Horse  Owners' Manual was the most complete.  Tom Ivers is a pioneer in bringing  science to the racetrack in nutrition, shoeing, veterinary, and exercise  physiology.  Ivers summarized, compiled, exploded the old wives' tales and  generally exposed the questionable world of the professional horse trainer.   Ivers valuable contribution to the sport one day will be recognized.  Much  of Mr. Ivers work is out of print, so Fit II, probably the weakest of his  work, is what we have, but it still contains much of the prior work and  conclusions.  Ivers overlooked that in athletics everybody trains  differently and I am unable to endorse the exercise prescriptions, even  having followed them religiously with a couple of horses.  But despite that  one flaw, besides Ross Staadens invaluable &quot;Winning Trainers&quot;,  Ivers work is easily the best I've read on training race horses.	2000-03-09
US	50808083	R1M4E1U1331EXE	0646091549	356612539	Winning Trainers: Their Road to the Top	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Insufficient superlatives for this one.	Without a doubt, Ross Staaden's book is the best book on race horses and race horse training written.  I was particularly taken with the section on Tommy Smith, leading trainer in Australia 33 years in a row.  Staaden took  everything from the horses mouth, so to speak, as he interviewed  extensively the trainers he most skillfully  writes about.  If you want to  know how the best do it, this is your book.	2000-03-07
US	50808083	R2PM3BCP4GV0H2	0553582100	638405942	Controlling Cholesterol the Natural Way: Eat Your Way to Better Health with New Breakthrough Food Discoveries	Books	3	61	70	N	N	worth reading	An excellent book which I heartily endorse for a layperson's understanding of cholesterol.  An everything you need to know book, with all the latest as of the publication date.  The doc also has recommendations based on his  own experience and research, most obviously well considered and grounded.   Of course, things are moving so fast in heart and health research that I  have questions since the two months ago I read this book, and things are  left unanswered. I felt the book failed to synthesize adequately all the  information that is coming out.  E.G. how do we combine the benecol with  the vitamin e,c,b, the fish oil, the garlic, the COQ-10, the flaxseed oil,  melatonin etc.  Does the benecol affect absorption of some of these other  food ingredients being touted now by the researchers? And, do we take  something, or everything, and if we combine everything, when do we ingest?   I also had questions, unanswered, about the doc's touting of oat bran and  psyllium fiber, since other research indicates that these foods, like  processed wheat flour, have high glycemic indexes, and therefore that large  ingestions would by inference tend to increase blood triglycerides.  Thus,  maybe I consider this more an information book than a program book, as I  felt that latter aspect as explained needs more work.	2000-02-19
US	50808083	R3GPS10FMI4KCA	0679759069	600988119	Bad Land: An American Romance	Books	3	2	4	N	N	a geography lesson	Bad Land, I felt, deserves its accolades, both as a fine book, and a tremendous descriptive book of the area of Eastern Montana.  It is a book for geography students and teachers, but also generally worth reading.   It  is a story of immigrants in; immigrants out; some short of the tough land,  and others having better things to do than build fences, and endure  droughts and unspeakable winters.  Only some unique persons' cup of tea,  this area, and so in keeping with one of Raban's themes, the effect of  geography on character.  The author enhances his superior writing and  adequate, if incomplete, research with his own presence in the area over a  period of, apparently, two years.  In the way of minor kibitzing, I could  have done without the sacrasm about Joe Montana Day, and I also felt the  book weakened a bit in the final third, particularly when the author  dropped the ball on the story line of the families.  I would have liked to  know specifically (instead of generally) why the Wollastens left. This book  is recommended good reading.	2000-02-13
US	50808083	R24L8D1X4SYAZF	1573225142	106716475	The Western Canon: The Books and School of the Ages	Books	4	13	18	N	N	superb	Only Shakespeare here prevents 5 stars.  But I was inclining to three stars as it seemed to me the professor had trouble organzing his brilliant scholarship into coherent paragraphs.  But, midway through my comprehension  improved, with essays on Wordsworth, and Austen, and then just a brilliant  chapter on Emily Dickinson--near Shakespearean in language and thought,  this author is brilliantly insightful with precise, profuse  vocabulary--followed by equally nice chapters on Tolstoy and Freud.  And so  I respectfully differ with some reviews in criticism of the writing  ability, which I believe on par with those the professor reviews.  Thus, to  me, the writing, the enormous IQ, memory and synthesis of material,  scholarship and vast depth of insight are the good parts of the book.   Though an unqualified judge,  I believe the professor gets himself in  trouble in the subjective part of the book, to wit his opinions of his  subject matter, and the way he characterizes and interprets the canon, in  my humble view, very narrowly.  While I appreciate literature as an  explanation of intellectual freedom, and I think I understand the  professor's almost mystical &quot;secular transcendence&quot;, it seems to  me that this buzz is reached too much by a concentration in the literature  of the weird, the strange, the bizarre and at times repulsive (Whitman and  Proust).  In defense of the author, he anticipates and contradicts every  argument, and he, contrary to many reviews, supports everything (actually  ad naseum if you read the whole book).  The basic conclusions are  convincing to the point of unassailability, and yet there is still a little  wonder whether we are looking at literature here through a most narrow and  obsessive prism.  To me this book is a must read.  It is overwhelming.	2000-01-18
US	50808083	R2SYQZKNH490WG	0670887315	929204920	Disgrace	Books	2	5	12	N	N	lukewarm	Let us avoid confusing this mediocrity with a great novel.  We have here a five star story with a two star execution.  David Lurie, the middle aged protagonist on the downslide, maintains an air of intellectual superiority  through a steady progression of reversals less dark than some reviews  portend.  The book deals with interesting, universal themes:  the clash of  two cultures; a difficult parent-adult child relationship; growing old.   But unfortunately in the development, every single twist of plot winds up  without going anywhere.  The writing is passable, entertaining, and lacking  in wit and cleverness. To give Coetze credit there is a modern philosphical  and psychological background to his characters, but I read the book and I  am unable to tell you what it is.  How much more interesting and believable  had Lurie finally received his come-uppance, perhaps from a more  intellectually capable Melanie, or had the black criminals been dealt with  in some manner after their crime, maybe by a firing squad of black African  police.	1999-12-28
US	50808083	R3L3R2I76IUXMJ	0679442626	239763542	Passage to Juneau: A Sea and Its Meanings	Books	3	6	13	N	N	landlocked reader	For this landlocked reader I was immediately disappointed to discover that what I supposed would be a journey into the nether regions to be actually a trip along a much traveled sea route.  And in truthfullness, for the first  hundred pages, the subject matter of the sea, of little interest to me, was  very boring.  However, as the tale progressed, I admit to becoming more  interested, and thanks to the author, more knowledgable.  I perceived Raban  to be intelligent and entertaining with high marks for being very well read  and insighful.  On the other, was a collection of ad hoc meanderings,  united only by the journey, suffering  just a tiny bit from less than  totally clear thought process..  I enjoyed the book and would have to call  the last chapter memorable.	1999-12-13
US	50808083	R2ED0FQ7047M83	0880116072	130439295	Sports Speed: #1 Program for Athletes	Books	2	57	61	N	N	A very tough read.	As the title suggests, this is a book about improving your speed.  It is a general book applicable to any sport.  And so the authors go to great lengths to generalize their program.  I expected to read about the latest  in exercise physiology concerning speed, recommended training, and  exercises.  We do get that sort of thing in a manner of speaking, but to  put it very bluntly, this book is one of the most jumbled, mixed up,  illogical presentations you are likely to read.  Hard to believe three  college graduates put this together.  In order to get anything out of this  book you kind of have to trudge all the way through it and improvise your  thought process as you go.  The authors give absolutely zero help. Do we  get titles to the latest studies on sport speed--in the negative.  Do we  get information on the latest persons doing research on the subject--in the  negative.  Do we get a logical, understandable training program--in the  negative. What we get instead is kind of a hodge podge of information  coming from all directions without hardly any logical organized  presentation. Oh--there is the seven step speed training program presented  in 7 different chapters.  And to give credit--it does look like this is a  good speed improvement program.  However the information  the seven  chapters (and you have to get through 3 almost imconprehensible chapters to  get to the program) seems to rain down from the sky in a very disconnected  fashion.  There are few explanations of the whys and wherefores; there are  zero explanations on where the program comes from or how it was put  together, or where it fits in anywhere in what is being done by any one.   It is just there, presented, and I suppose we are supposed to swallow it  all on faith.  There are presented many descriptions and photographs of  useful looking exercises.  I do know more about speed improvement after  reading the book.  But the information was gotten by pulling teeth.	1999-11-22
