US	50814665	RF6P5SMNPF56	1595324062	358049214	Fruits Basket, Vol. 11	Books	4	31	33	N	N	Things get serious.	This volume of Fruits Basket is heavy on the drama.   <br /> <br />As it starts out, Tohru and Yuki silently return to the others after his admission, and the gang's vacation plummets as Akito starts to summon some of them for private emotional abuse sessions - beginning with Haru and then proceeding to Kyo, who almost breaks under the ordeal.  Realizing what Tohru has become to the family, Akito ominously storms off to have it out with her.  But Akito didn't count on being challenged by someone who will not stand for him going after Tohru... <br />Momiji. <br /> <br />Such emphasis has been placed on Yuki and Kyo's relationship with Tohru that it's easy to overlook how close she's become to Momiji in a very different way, and since we often forget how old he is because he looks and acts so young it's a shock when it's he who faces Akito down.  Momiji's confrontation with Akito is well done and frightening - considering our knowledge of Rin's trip to the hospital and Haru's warning in the last volume that Akito dislikes him.  This is definitely his volume, as he shows himself to be as much Tohru's prince as Yuki or Kyo - if not more.   <br /> <br />Also including the stunning revealation of Akito's place in the Zodiac, this volume is one of the strongest so far.  <br />	2005-08-18
US	50814665	R372EZL94V8QZ6	1588341224	802384966	The Dinosaur Papers: 1676-1906	Books	4	25	25	N	N	A milestone publication	I was walking through the bookstore when what to my wondering eyes should appear but this volume.  It was sealed, but I snatched it up despite the pricetag due to the anticipation of what the title suggested.<br />When I opened it, I almost dropped in shock.  Here in my little hands were Mantell's paper on Iguanadon and Buckland's on Megalosaurus.  And that was just two of the appetizers.<br />Not impressed yet?  How about a salad-or-soup course of Leidy's description of Hadrosaurus?  Feel like a main course of Dollo's papers on the Iguanadons of Bernissart, dressed with Seeley's discussion of Archaeopteryx?  You can choose between a side dish of Marsh's reconstructions of Trike and Stego.  And for dessert?  Osborn on Brown's discovery of T-Rex.  <br />These are papers of legend that you may have heard about in summaries of Dinosaur history but never thought you'd ever see released to the general public - and there are even more than those I've mentioned.  Did I also mention that they also come with the original drawings included?<br />This is a no-brainer that everyone with more than a passing interest in dinosaurs should have in their library.  The only reason I left a star off was the lack of a useful tool - there are no side or foot notes to inform you when science has proven these papers wrong, although Weishampel's chapter intros do clarify some points.  But then, if this book is of interest to you, you're presumably pretty much updated anyway.	2003-10-17
US	50814665	RD76QF5Z59PMB	0786918047	455217726	Time of the Twins: Dragonlance Legends, Volume I	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The Saga Continues.	The War of the Lance is over, the world once again at peace.  Goldmoon and Riverwind fade into history, happily married, and Tanis and Laurana are firmly together in spite of Kitiara's shadow.<br />Caramon, however, cannot get over Raistlin's decision and is slowly destroying both himself and his marriage to Tika.  Having hit rock bottom, he finds a glimmer of hope when Tasslehoff, more or less recovered from his terrible grief over Flint's death, arrives with Lady Crysania - a Cleric of Paladine who has met with Raistlin and has a plan to save the Mage's soul.<br />Caramon sets out with Crysania, Tas, and a secret weapon, but is forced to turn to Par Salian - the mage who conducted Raistlin's test so long ago - for help due to unforseen events.  He must travel back in time to find help for a wounded Crysania and perhaps stop the evil mage Fistandantilus from ever possessing Raistlin during his test - a simple enough task for the powerful Par Salian, as long as a member of the magical races - Dwarves, Gnomes and Kender - is not involved, as they can alter time should they travel through it.<br />One guess who follows him in a fit of curiosity (and to be fair, genuine concern)...  <br />The deed and possible damage done, Caramon races to find either Raistlin or Fistandantilus - or both - without knowing if Tasslehoff's presence has effected a positive or negative change.<br />This is quite a change from the Chronicles, much more intimate in scope and more about the relationships between a handful of people.  Some readers will be shocked at the state Caramon's in as the story begins, but it's not really surprising when you take a moment to consider everything you know about the twin's relationship up to this point.  Watching him pull himself back together is quite interesting.<br />We also see what the taking of the Black Robes really means for Raistlin, as we start to unravel his intentions towards his brother and Crysania - as well as a now dangerous Tasslehoff.<br/>The real pleasant surprise to me, however, was Tas - ironically now the oblivious and innocent major threat to Raistlin's plans (an inspired twist that will obviously have major implications).  I was curious as to where the writers could go with him without Flint, but there turned out to be no need for worry.  His relationship with Caramon in this entry borders on downright fascinating as, from lack of any alternative, he acts as his friend's protector, sole emotional support, tough-love dispenser, sounding board and conscience.<br />All this - and it ends with a cliffhanger that left those of us who brought it when it was first released reeling in shock as War of the Twins wasn't released until a few months later.<br />Bottom line - anyone who liked Chronicles won't want to miss Legends either.	2003-10-01
US	50814665	RIXI6MTQZE5NN	0945953054	448417623	The Vampire Tapestry: A Novel	Books	4	31	33	N	N	One of the genre's best.	Humans are cattle.  There is no other reality for vampire Edward Weyland.  That is, until two wounding bullets at the hands of vampire huntress Katje de Groot leave him vulnerable to a greedy third-rate Satanist named Reese, and his existence is changed forever by a frantic, knee-jerk act of compassion by a sensitive teenager named Mark.  Further affected by the love of a disturbed psychiatrist named Floria and the friendship of a kindly but troubled professor named Irv, Weyland must discover if these three humans have given him a great gift - or a terrible curse...  <br />This is a novel that doesn't allow you to leave your brain at the door.  Charnas is delightfully subtle - there's no one big moment where you can point out that Weyland has changed, and it is sometimes a whole chapter later before you find out what effect the human &quot;guest stars&quot; have had on him, all of them affecting him in very different ways.  And she never lets you forget what he is - this is not someone you would ever want to have a cup of tea with.  This is probably the best depiction of the vampire as a predator, neither good nor evil.  We remain rather detached from Weyland as he almost clinically self-examines himself.<br />Weyland's relationships with the humans he encounters are so different that each chapter varies wildly in tone.  I personally found Mark's chapter the most powerful, with a wonderful picture of the terror and aching conscience of a truly good boy, and Floria's curiously anticlimatic considering her obvious significance.  Everyone will have a favorite.<br />Though not quite perfect, a welcome addition to any vampire fiction collection.	2003-07-25
US	50814665	R15Y90DTFZJD6F	0785108122	378093184	X-Men: Vignettes, Vol. 1	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Some Quieter Moments	This volume collects the backstories printed in X-Men Classics from it's beginning through it's reprinting of the Dark Phoenix Saga.<br />Basically, it's a collection of short stories about what happened \\"between the lines\\" of Uncanny at this period of the X-Men's history.  Often they're quieter, relationship-driven stories as opposed to the action of the series proper.  It helps if you have the stories that the vignettes are backing up in front of you for reference if you don't think you'll remember them - if you don't know what's going on you might be lost.  <br />Some of the vignettes are better than others, and of course your opinion will be colored by which characters you like most.  Certainly two of the Nightcrawler stories are essential reading and some of the best material ever written for him.  The first is \\"The Big Dare\\" - the notorious buddy classic in which Nightcrawler and Wolverine play a famous game of tag that results in Logan getting Kurt a little tipsy and daring him to walk down the street in public undisguised.  The second is the beautiful tearjerker \\"The Gift\\", in which Kurt bonds with a little boy to whom he self-appoints himself guardian when he sees the child walking down the street alone in the middle of the night.	2003-05-16
US	50814665	R2UEGQQF3056TZ	0939766965	589017129	The Uncanny X-Men: The Dark Phoenix Saga	Books	5	6	7	N	N	An X-Men Pinnacle	It is up to each X fan to decide if subsequent events have diluted the power of the Dark Phoenix saga, but it is still the one story that everyone who really wants to know the X-Men must be familiar with.<br />Seemingly by a miracle, Jean Grey's life was recently saved by psychic melding with an elemental force called the Phoenix.  Unfortunately, a price soon becomes apparent.  At first in small ways, it starts to become obvious that the Phoenix has started to change Jean, wheather for good or ill not immediately apparent.  As the obscene Hellfire Club - which makes Magneto look like a boy scout - tries to find a way to make use of Jean, it slowly becomes evident that the power of the Phoenix is becoming beyond her control.  This time, not even her teammates - not even Scott - may be able to save her.<br />This story is still powerful, and younger readers should be aware that, at the time, it sent shockwaves through the comic reading world because nothing like the tragic resolution had ever been done before.  It was grim indeed.<br />There is, however, a light at the end of the tunnel.  As the remaining X-Men grieve, a young girl hesitantly arrives at Xavier's to begin schooling - a girl who had a peripheral involvement in the Phoenix events.  She's Kitty Pryde, who will eventually become the love of Colossus' life, like a foster daughter to Storm and like a little sister to Nightcrawler.<br />Newer fans will be surprised in particular by the beginning of Kurt and Kitty's friendship. \\"I don't think the little Fraulein likes me\\", Kurt notes to himself during the calm before the storm.  The matter is dropped in the whirlwind of events, but it will come back to haunt them both.  The truth is that Kitty, in spite of her best efforts to hide it, WAS a bit frightened by Kurt for quite some time.  It would take alot of mental conditioning on her part and patience and sensitivity on his before she became his fiercely adoring Katzchen.	2003-05-15
US	50814665	R1BD1TKQCI4DOV	0786918055	577085969	War of the Twins (Dragonlance Legends, Vol. 2)	Books	4	11	13	N	N	The Turning Point	Continuing where \\"Time of the Twins\\" left off, this entry in the Dragonlance Legends trilogy furthers Raistlin's plot to overthrow the Queen of Darkness.<br />As it begins, after quickly dispensing with the formality of lying through his teeth about what really happened to Tas in Istar and completely winning over Caramon and Crysania, Raistlin coldly proceeds with his manipulative scheming even as he starts to show traces of the man he once was.  Events finally force him to take what seems to be the road of no return as Caramon finally comes to terms with what his twin really is.<br />This entry includes some of the most touching dialogue in the series between the twins and explains more deeply why Raistlin is what he is.  Caramon, facing an almost surgical separation from his twin as more things come to light, finally comes into his own.<br />Due to plot reasons, we don't see much of Tas for awhile outside of an interlude revealing what has happened to him after \\"Time\\"'s cliffhanger.  One of the series' major forces of kindness and compassion, his own nature hasn't allowed him to associate Raistlin with the face of evil.  Combined with his unintentionally dangerous trump card ability to alter time, this makes him frighteningly vulnerable - and when he rejoins the correct time frame, unfortunately running into Raistlin first, the meeting between the two results in what might be the most psychologically disturbing and horrific two chapters in the whole Dragonlance saga.  When faced with the depths to which Raistlin is willing to go, even his most admiring fans will be forced to wonder if he is indeed worth saving at all - a question that will dominate \\"Test of the Twins\\".	2002-12-18
US	50814665	R3MJYU64HVXO73	0345363132	74059498	The Sunne in Splendour	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Medieval Fiction at it's Best	It helps that I happen to agree in general with Ms. Penman's opinion of Richard III's strengths and weaknesses and what he probably was and was not guilty of, but whether or not you do too, this saga of the reigns of the two Yorkist kings of England is probably the most gripping novel so far in her medieval historical fiction collection.<br />As it opens, Queen Margaret, paranoid due to her Lancastrian husband Henry V1's mental illness, has Richard, Duke of York and his eldest son Edmund assassinated simply because of York's popularity.  York's youngest son Richard watches in adoration as his now-eldest brother Edward then crushes her, becoming King of England himself.  But triumph turns to tragedy as Richard watches Edward mary the grasping Elizabeth Woodville, gets caught in the middle of Edward's battles to the death with their cousin Richard Neville as well as their own brother George, is left by Edward's early death to deal with the Woodvilles as Richard III and finally suffers the greatest of his many personal tragedies just as Henry Tudor, the last hope of the Lancastrian family, finally makes his move.<br />The characters are incredibly strongly drawn. My only complaints might be that, although a good romance is nice, Richard's relationship with his wife-cousin Anne, the second main character, is sometimes a bit too sugary for me; and his cousin Henry Stafford of Buckingham is so stereotypical (everything but a twirling mustache!) that it's hard to believe Richard was taken in by him even if he was so devoid of other adult male relatives that he was blinded by gratitude.  Edward, the third of the three main characters, is just right - with enough good points to make you understand Richard's devotion while still making it clear that he had alot to do with the subsequent disaster that befell his sons as well as Richard.<br />Speaking of said disaster, we will, of course, probably never know the answer to the all-important question of Richard's reign - whetheror not he murdered Edward's sons Edward V and Richard of York at only 12 and 10 years of age.  Penman's solution is quite interesting - it wasn't Richard, but her Edward V is an angry boy who barely knew Richard, was devoted to his Woodville relatives and would never forget either that Richard (however justified) executed his Woodville kin or his claim to the throne (which more historians are considering invalid as more start to believe that Edward IV had been precontracted before his marriage to Elizabeth) - leaving open the question of what Richard might have had to do a few years down the road whether he wanted to or not if someone else hadn't done it for him.<br />The children are, incidentally, as fully developed as the adult characters.  Ironically, it's George's son Edward (whose mind-numbing, drawn out fate after the events of the novel made what may have happened to his cousins seem merciful in comparison) who will haunt you afterwards rather than the famous Princes in the Tower. <br />The novel is also, refreshingly, not dominated by the question of the Princes' fates - much, much more happened in Richard's life, and it's the whole tapestry of Richard's short, sad history that makes it so wonderful.  Some of the most memorable subplots - like the almost unbearably tragic story of Richard's sweet-natured cousin John Neville whose suicide/death in battle saves him from having to chose between deserting his brother or possibly having a part in Edward or Richard's deaths - are long over before there's even a hint that Richard will eventually wear a crown.<br />After all, even Richard's fiercest critics have to grant him that to make a fair decision, one has to start the story from the begining.	2002-10-26
US	50814665	R23PTYJ2PP5W3B	019283570X	729198005	The Kalevala (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	38	44	N	N	The Finnish Illiad	This sister to the Norse Sagas is the masterwork of Finnish mythology.<br />In it we follow the three main heroes - the elderly Vainamoinen, wise in everything except love; his brother Ilmarinen, the presumably middle-aged master smith; and Lemminkainen, the reckless young lothario who causes his wife and mother endless headaches but who we like enough anyway that we worry about him when he gets into trouble.<br />In some ways, it's a product of it's time. This was written in a time when women had no say in who they married; they had no recourse if their husbands were abusive; and they were virtually their mother-in-law's slaves until their younger brother-in-laws or sons got married and they weren't the low women on the totem pole anymore. Althoug Aino's story offers a message about this system, it's pretty much accepted. This is what life was really like at the time these stories were sung.<br />In other ways, though, it's surprisingly modern. Although the results usually aren't so serious, we've almost all been taken down a peg by an elder like Joukahainen at some point in our lives when we've needed it. I would imagine that many widowers - and widows, for that matter - can relate to Ilmarinen's sense of loss when he loses his wife.<br />And then there's Kullervo. He wins the all-time teen angst award hands down. It's fascinating how his cycle deals with a question psychologists have grappled with for centuries - are kids taught to be good, or are they just born good or bad? He's a danger to society, yes - but he may also never have had a chance. No matter what you feel about what he does, the scene where he wanders pitifully among his family asking if anyone would cry if he died until he gets what he needs to hear from his mother, can move you to tears. Just read the headlines about the latest school shooting. There really are kids almost this messed up out there.	2002-08-30
US	50814665	RK1IMB1TEWY24	0380002930	498635851	Watership Down	Books	5	6	9	N	N	A fantastic journey	Nothing short of a masterpiece, \\"Watership Down\\" does for the English countryside what \\"The Jungle Books\\" did for the Indian jungles - and, like \\"The Jungle Books\\", should first be read in pre-adolescence but becomes even more profound upon rereading as an adult.<br />We are immediately introduced to two of the three major characters of the novel. Fiver, a small rabbit prone to visions of the future, receives a mixed blessing - a horrendous vision of the destruction of his warren, as well as another of a promised land - a land of safety and security. Insistant that the whole warren must be evacuated post haste, he is assisted by his self-assured brother Hazel, who agrees partly because he has lived his whole life watching Fiver's visions come true and partly because he is becoming weary of the warren's inequality and wants a better life for Fiver - and by extension all the other rabbits who will never become members of the elite Owsla and face a rather bleak future. Their mutual admiration and devotion are the emotional center of the story.<br />We are introduced to the handful of rabbits that they are able to convince to defect, most because of Hazel's influence or because they were discontented anyway rather than that they have faith in Fiver's visions at this point. Chief among them is Bigwig, a commanding Owsla member whose support is an unexpected surprise.<br />As the story goes on, they face many natural and man-made perils, reach Fiver's Down, learn the fate of their original warren, attempt to create a just government and attempt to ensure the survival of their new warren by attracting does to immigrate (the original immigrants are all bucks)<br />It all ends in a nailbiting climax in which Bigwig faces the evil fascist General Woundwort, who vows to personally kill him for spearheading a rescue of oppressed does and a buck from his warren; Fiver faces a quieter but no less gripping battle for his spirit when the realm from whence his visions come threatensto overwhelm him; and Hazel makes a desperate bargain with their god Frith, the personification of the sun.<br />It's actually their more subtle traits that make the rabbits - and the book - so fascinating. We admire Bigwig for his bravery, but love him for refusing to attempt to become a dictator and - after a few hard-earned lessons in humility - acknowledging the merits of those superficially weaker than him. We admire Fiver for his courageous stands when he knows he's right - even when at one point it threatens his relationship with Hazel - but love him for his constant struggle just to remain sane in the face of an ability that might be a public treasure but is also an appalling personal tragedy. We admire Hazel for his heroism at Nuthanger Farm but love him for his integrity and political vision. <br />There are moments of humor - particularly involving Bigwig's unusual friendship with a friendly, flamboyant seagull named Kehaar who's a favorite of fans among the supporting characters, but it's the vivid descriptions of the horrors of rabbit life that will haunt you once the novel is done; like the visceral description of the inevitable holocaust that Fiver predicted as well as more subtle terrors such as when Fiver tries to explain to Hazel that he isn't at all sure that the realm from whence his visions come is particularly friendly.<br />An exciting, deep tale that everyone should read at least once.	2002-08-19
US	50814665	RD4GZODWKH571	0062771639	388081497	Access Paris (5th ed.)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	If you're staying awhile...	When my friend and I went to France for the first time, we decided that our trip would consist almost totally of Paris, which has so must to see that it deserves about two weeks in itself.  When the time came to start looking for guidebooks, by coincidence a letter writer in a travel magazine raved about this Access edition, so I picked it up.  I wasn't disappointed.<br /><br />If you're only spending a few days it isn't a good choice - you'll only be dealing with must-sees like the Eiffel Tower and Notre Dame anyway.  It is ideal, though, if you're staying for 2 weeks or longer, sectioning off neighborhoods of the city into chunks that are tourable in a day.  This is definitely a mark-up book, begging for sights you want to see, restaurants you want to eat at, and stores you want to shop in to be highlighted or circled.  The color highlighting is a useful tool, the drawings are wonderful, and the entries fun and informative - a delight to read when you're actually sitting down at the destination being described.<br /><br />A good guidebook for the tourist making more than a token visit and who's willing to do a little work beforehand.	2002-08-10
US	50814665	RQNOCW0LM6H2U	0783889852	324681623	The Hand of Oberon: The Chronicles of Amber	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A turning point	&quot;The Hand of Oberon&quot;, the fourth book of the first Amber series, is perhaps the most pivotal.  Within, many of the mysteries we've followed since &quot;Nine Princes&quot; are finally resolved, setting us up for the big climax in &quot;Courts of Chaos&quot;.<br />In addition to enough plot twists to make your head spin, it's also notable for Corwin's first real problem with Random - who finds that he might have very personal reason to take out a sibling who Corwin considers necessary for information purposes.  The fact that by this book just the thought of a rift between them makes you squirm is proof of how important their relationship has been - not only because strategically Corwin needs someone to back him up but because, in a world where so much else has been suspect, we know they honestly like eachother.	2002-08-03
US	50814665	RY1NUS2BT66TY	0380014300	248658617	Nine Princes In Amber	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Meet Fantasy's First Family	\\"Nine Princes\\" begins the Chronicles of Amber, perhaps the most utterly fun series in Sci-fi/Fantasy.<br />As it begins, the narrator Corwin - Prince of the magical realm of Amber - wakes up in a hospital with amnesia after an apparent murder attempt, aware only that it was probably a member of his own family who tried to do him in.  Leaving the hospital with intentions to interrogate the sister who admitted him, he meets wild child youngest brother Random.  Initially keeping his condition close to the vest, Corwin learns that his father and brother Brand are missing, throwing the family power struggle - involving the family's nine princes and to a lesser extent their sisters - into chaos.  With little other choice, Corwin decides to trust Random and put his life into his hands.  It turns out to be a lucky gamble - he's run into the right brother first, and Random points him to a magical means of restoring his memory, promising (and more importantly actually intending) to stick with him.  Through the next four books Corwin - sometimes solo and sometimes with major and minor assists from Random (who becomes the story's \\"safe place\\") - begins the long process of finding out what happened to his father and Brand and who wants him dead.  On the way, he discovers that some of his siblings were exactly what he thought them, others were better or worse than he believed,  some have changed and some he never even really knew at all.<br />The series is always suspenseful, often darkly funny, and sometimes even surprisingly moving.  A second series followed, but it in no way compared to the original first five novels.<br />This is one of the greats.  Buy the next four books too, or you'll regret the wait in between.	2002-08-01
US	50814665	R22C46RNTBNF0U	1890132446	172119394	The Safari Companion: A Guide to Watching African Mammals	Books	5	61	62	N	N	Great for Amateurs	Most African Mammal guides are designed for people working in that field.  Here, we have one specifically designed for the average enthusiast who wants to know a bit more than provided in the also essential Audobon Guide to African Wildlife.  Let's face it - while you may get the occasional bird or even reptile enthusiast, it's the mammals that capture the imagination of the average person on the street when it comes to the wildlife of Africa.<br />You don't have to travel to the Dark Continent to enjoy this one, and - in acknowledgement that people can be interested in wildlife without necessarily being able or willing to go on Safari - it's also designed for use if you're fortunate enough (as I am) to be a regular at a quality zoo or even a regular viewer of &quot;National Geographic&quot; or &quot;Nature&quot;.  <br />The book is very easy to use and browse through, explaining habits and noting the best parks and reserves for each animal, as well as the animal's major predators or relationship with other predators.  You don't have to look through it long to wish for similar volumes for Asia and North America.   <br />Certainly worthy of being one of the first books on the shelf of anyone who loves African wildlife.	2002-06-21
US	50814665	R1JWG0NG0EEY9H	0618056777	612867510	Through a Window	Books	5	35	35	N	N	A Riveting Sequel	In \\"In the Shadow of Man\\", Jane Goodall introduced us to the Chimpanzees of Gombe. If anything, this sequel is even more fascinating.<br />The whole study reads like a sweeping saga. As \\"Shadow\\" closed, the \\"main characters\\", the Flo family, were thriving, though there was a tinge of sadness with the realization that Flo wasn't getting any younger.<br />As \\"Window\\" opens, the inevitable happens, and we learn how each of Flo's children coped with her death - including a foreshadowed tragedy. We then watch her sons find their place in the male hierarchy and see what her daughter has learned about successful parenting from her mother.<br />The \\"supporting cast\\" is as interesting as that of \\"Shadow\\" - like Jomeo, a large male who never reached the high position one would have anticipated; Goblin, the Machiavellian politician who works his way up the ranks by befriending Alphas; Evered, who never reached a particularly high position but may have had the last laugh on all the males by quietly fathering the most children of the lot of them and Passion, the psychotic, nightmarish baby cannibal who sounds like something out of a horror movie.<br />The book also documents the brutal, disturbing territorial war that proved that Chimpanzees are capable of violence against eachother. This is a war that would have never been recorded had the study ended when originally scheduled - showing why long term studies are needed for long lived animals like chimps and elephants.<br />Both books should be among the first in the collection of everyone with the slightest interest in animal behavior. I keep up with the continuing story on internet, but I still can't wait for Ms. Goodall to continue with another book about what happened next.	2002-06-20
US	50814665	R3H3KBNRTD1ECV	0140481745	627077236	The Lion in Winter (Penguin Plays)	Books	5	35	38	N	N	The Modern Middle Ages	This play about the famously disfunctional family of England's Henry II is perhaps the most devestating family drama this side of \\"Long Day's Journey into Night\\".<br />For those who want a real epic, it can - but doesn't have to - be read as a sequel to Jean Anoilh's \\"Becket\\".  Personally I found that this adds to the tragedy.<br />It opens during a fictional family Christmas get together that is combined with a historical meeting between Henry and France's young King Phillip.  Henry's persistent humiliation of his wife, Eleanor of Aquitaine, through his string of mistresses has prompted her to hurt him in the only way available to her - by systematically destroying his relationships with their sons.  Now Henry - although not old yet - is no longer a young man.  The fact that a potentially dangerous Phillip - who has a legitimate axe to grind with Henry - is no longer a child forces them to realize that their familial intrigues have set their boys up for both internal and external disaster upon Henry's death.  They make a real effort to save both their shattered marriage and their shattered children, but it may already be too late ...<br />The main tragedy, of course, is what Henry and Eleanor have done to their children.  Richard is admirably brave but has had much of his compassion beaten out of him and replaced with brutality.  Geoffrey's great sense of humor has been blasted in the bud, and his fustrated capability of love makes a weapon of an intelligence that would have been an asset to anyone who would have shown him the slightest affection in return (it's worth noting for those who don't know the family's subsequent history that given the condensed time of the play, Geoffrey would presumably have died in a fatal tournament accident soon after the action of the play - making him even more poignant).  John, the youngest son of Robin Hood fame, is somewhat mishandled - his failure had much to do with Richard's prior mismanagement and lousy historical timing rather than his own faults, and the ruthless streak that doomed Geoffrey's son Arthur (who isn't in the play) as well as his general competence in many instances (he would later rescue Eleanor from a siege in a manner that would have done Richard proud) doesn't really come across - but in an otherwise excellent play Goldman can be forgiven for bowing to popular opinion in one case.<br />An accurate depiction of the dynamics of the Plantagenet family, \\"The Lion in Winter\\" is also a timeless study of what constitutes a healthy family.	2002-04-24
US	50814665	R13QB9RPKM1W6P	0399501487	502818647	Lord of the Flies	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Absolutely devestating, absolutely essential	This wicked parable of society is firmly in the top 10 novels of the 20th century.<br />If you're reading this, I'll assume you're one of the presumably few people that didn't read this at some point for high school or college (by the way - it's definitely not appropriate for ages younger than high school). If so, there's no excuse for not picking it up immediately.<br />It starts, famously, with English schoolboys in an airplane crash on a deserted island in the wake of nuclear war (and - lest we be too hard on the boys - this point is deliberately made to show that adults fared no better than the boys will). The pilot, the only adult on board, is killed - and the boys have to create a civilization from scratch.<br />Eventually factions are formed, and tensions arise between the \\"rescue\\" faction led by a boy named Ralph, which focuses on keeping their shelters in repair and a signal fire burning, and the \\"hunting\\" faction led by a boy named Jack, which becomes less focused on prioritizing rescue and slowly start to like their hunting a little too much...<br />Eventually the rescue faction dwindles to Ralph; Piggy, a stereotypical nerd who nevertheless becomes Ralph's firmest ally in keeping some kind of order; Sam and Eric, two basically decent twins and Simon, a kind, painfully shy epileptic who has the firmest handle on what's really happening to them.<br />With things spinning out of control, Ralph and Piggy confront Jack to try to restore a semblance of sanity, while Simon faces psychic battle with the Lord of the Flies, who represents - depending on the reader - Simon's prodigious understanding of chaos, the evil within not only all the boys but all of us, the devil himself, or all three, which are not mutually exclusive.<br />A dark, disturbing masterpiece.	2002-04-18
US	50814665	R3NEO3SC5X5LPD	0800630750	946076991	Fortress Introduction to the Gospels	Books	5	18	19	N	N	A great introduction to the gospels	Most biblical studies are quite frankly designed for scholars and seminary students.  As a general reader, I can unhesitatingly recommend this small volume that helps you understand the basics of the Gospels.<br />There are three sections for each of the four Gospels, discussing Characteristics (what makes it different from the other three Gospels), Historical background (where, when and why they were probably written and whether Matthew, Mark, Luke and John actually wrote them) and Major Themes (the messages that each writer wanted to get across).  Things that the general reader might not be aware of, like the phantom &quot;Q&quot; Gospel that probably provided Matthew and Luke with material and the controversy over whether John or Lazarus was the &quot;Beloved Disciple&quot;, are introduced in easy to understand fashion without overwhelming non-scholars.  There is also an appendix summarizing the &quot;Gnostic Gospels&quot; which, although I wouldn't count on finding them in new copies of the New Testament anytime soon, are gaining credibility with scholars (especially the Gospel of Thomas).<br />I found it interesting and informative.	2002-03-30
US	50814665	R3M7OQ6UG5GAR	067172276X	196017117	Measure for Measure	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Shakespeare's most underrated	In this somewhat disturbing classic, we have characters in almost as much a dilemma as Hamlet himself.  Claudio, a young man, has gotten his fiance pregnant before their wedding.  Unfortunately for Claudio, the local Duke is out of town finding himself, and in his stead is Angelo - a stickler for the rules, although he's far from squeaky clean himself.  The said rules in this case, although obscure, call for execution.<br />Enter Isabella, Claudio's sister - a novice nun - to plead his case.  Incredibly, Angelo starts to have some not-very-nice thoughts, and soon enough he's telling her he'll let Claudio go - if she spends the night with him!<br />In modern times one might think this reprehensible but a no-brainer - most sisters aren't going to let their brothers die young if there's anything they can do about it even if they are convent bound.  But consider that in Shakespeare's time Isabella's soul would have been very much at issue.<br />So we have Isabella's soul and Claudio's life at stake, and there's still no word from the deadbeat Duke!  Will something happen before time runs out?<br />Angelo is one of Shakespeare's most interesting villains, knowing that he's setting himself up to go straight to hell but still not able to stop himself.  Isabella has to deal with a problem that makes those of many other Shakespearean heroines seem like child's play.  As for Claudio - his prison monologue, where he starts off trying to be brave for Isabella but ends up as frightened as anyone in his predicament would be when human nature kicks in - is as powerful a tour de force as Clarence's scene in Richard III.   <br />Not to be missed by Shakespeare fans.	2002-01-30
US	50814665	RQ9IXPTK6S5C3	0345339738	669379389	The Return of the King (The Lord of the Rings, Part 3)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Goodbye to Middle Earth	Tolkien refuses to end things quite as expected in the conclusion of the Lord of the Rings.<br />As it begins, Pippin stews in Gondor recuperating from his traumatic experience at the end of his story in &quot;Two Towers&quot; under Gandalf's watchful eye, while we see the final battle through Merry's eyes as he unexpectedly plays a major part in the end of the war.  Meanwhile, Sam attempts to rescue Frodo, who is weakened both physically and mentally as they near Mordor...<br />This is the most emotional entry of the trilogy, ending not with the war but it's aftermath as the hobbits return to the Shire only to find that trouble has hit home.  Merry leads a defense as Frodo begins to learn the price he must pay for having been the Ringbearer.<br />Not only the greatest fantasy ever written, the trilogy also becomes, in this final installment, an allegory about why isolationism doesn't work - and why sometimes the good fight has to be fought, occasionally at great cost, long before home becomes the battlefield.	2002-01-28
US	50814665	RNQY88LR4LZLI	0451525264	996904481	Les Miserables	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The version to read	Many, many people cringe in dismay when they see the size of this more or less unabridged version and go running for an abridged version instead.<br />The pros of an abridged version is that it concentrates on the central, surpremely crucial storyline of Jean Valjean's spiritual progress and Javert's obsessive pursuit, leaving out much tedious filler.  Keep in mind - Hugo was writing in a time before radio or tv, when reading was the big evening pastime.<br />The con is that it also leaves out or edits pre-barricade scenes involving some of the most memorable secondary characters like the steely-but-not-made-of-stone Enjolras and the pitiful but likeable Grantaire. Gavroche, everyone's favorite gamin, is often cut to shreds - his bravery and wit intact but much of his deep compassion and generosity left by the wayside.<br />My conclusion is that although this version can be slow reading at times, it is infinitely preferable to losing quite a bit of what makes this novel so compelling. You can always skim through the special interest tangents, and your efforts will be emotionally and spiritually rewarded.	2002-01-25
US	50814665	R1X8FRI4068V54	0806519940	716650643	Haunted City&#151;Updated: An Unauthorized Guide to the Magical, Magnificent New Orleans of Anne Rice	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Perfect for the specialist	If you're going to New Orleans largely because you're a fan of Anne Rice's Vampire and Mayfair Witches novels, then this is an essential. <br />I used it on my first trip to New Orleans. It includes self-guided tours of the French Quarter and Garden District that include Vampire Chronicle and Mayfair sites respectively without leaving out the must-see unrelated sites and experiences. The only caveat is that zoo fans should be aware that the Audobon is one of the best in the country. <br />Three types of sites are covered - those related to Anne Rice herself, those used in - or speculated to have inspired locations in - the books, and those where parts of &quot;Interview&quot; were filmed.<br />With chapters on guided plantation, swamp and cemetary tours, as well as restaurants and hotels (the last including descriptions of ambviance that helped me considerably in my choice of hotel), you'll have everything you need to plan your trip and not miss anything like the Ursuline convent where Louis found Claudia and the Gardiner House that inspired the home that Lestat, Louis and Claudia shared. <br />Best of all, Ms. Dickinson wants us all to be careful out there in a city that can become ominous if you go too far off the beaten track sans tour group - especially at night. As she wittily reminds us, we're not all as indestructable as Lestat, and if an area - even one that contains an Anne Rice site - is unsafe, she doesn't hesitate to tell us so. Following her advice, you'll see everything you want to see and get home safe and sound.	2002-01-14
US	50814665	R2YFNTPTRT2I0R	1576734773	903333450	Daughter of Jerusalem (Daughters of Faith)	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	The Story of the Early Church	This is a stunning retelling of the story of Mary Magdalene, the follower of Christ who played a critically important role in the Easter story.<br />As the book begins,the disciples are at the stage where the sting of Jesus' death has begun to be healed by the events of Pentecost. It is a time when Mary reflects on her life thus far.<br />As a young woman, Mary naievely gets herself into a position conductive to what we would now call date rape with a young man who is already engaged. Of no use to her family after her deflowering, she is thrown into the streets, where to survive she is forced to become a kept woman. As time goes on, she tries to compensate for her helplessness by using her sexuality to gain a measure of power - until she meets Jesus and her life is changed forever.<br />In the early days of the church Mary must now face a life without her Teacher, the knowledge that the chances of ever meeting a man who would be willing to marry her is now slim to none, the possibility that some or all of her male friends might be executed ... and her past, which now comes back to her.<br />Although the characters from Mary's past and Peter and Andrew's families are added to flesh out the story, the novel sticks to biblical accuracy. The fact that Mary has to deal with her past life even after her salvation is also true to life and very realistic.<br />The secondary characters are also well drawn, especially an overwhelmed but unflappable Simon Peter and a fascinating Joanna - who along with Mary herself proves that the female disciples played a different but no less essential role in early Christianity than the Twelve. The section where she describes her conversion is one of the most interesting parts of the book to me, and makes me wonder why Mr. Lemmons created a fictional friend of John's for book three instead of telling the story of this undoubtedly gutsy lady who left not only her husband but Herod's court for Jesus. Surely she deserves as much attention as Lydia Purpuraria.	2002-01-10
US	50814665	R2BDGNF7GALAKV	0842338705	179081435	The Priscilla Diary (First-Century Diaries)	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	Another winner	This is arguably my favorite in this wonderful series about the life of Paul as seen through the eyes of those who knew him best.<br />As book four begins, as usual with painful but unsurprising news of the martyrdom of one of the characters we've come to love, Priscilla remembers back to what must have been one of the worst times of Paul's life - with Priscilla and Aquilla going to Rome and life-threatening danger; no news from Timothy about whether the Philippian congregation has survived Blastinius' latest assault and, worst of all, the mysterious disappearance of Titus, who as time goes on seems more and more likely to have been killed.<br />Priscilla herself is one of the most engaging voices in the series in this entry which proves that just when everything seems to be going wrong, God sometimes gives us a break in this world.  With the inevitable subject matter of the next and last book (not yet released as of this writing), it's a period of happiness the characters must sorely have needed to face what was to come.	2002-01-01
US	50814665	R1DDO0QO90PEB	0842335994	395595571	Unafraid: Mary (The Lineage of Grace Series #5)	Books	3	15	17	N	N	The Series Ends	Francine Rivers ends her wonderful &quot;Lineage of Grace&quot; series with the life of Mary.<br />In this version Mary is hardly meek and mild, but a teenage girl impatient for the coming of the Messiah. When she has Jesus, she is shocked when no one believes that she was a virgin when she became pregnant - the begining of a rude awakening. It is Joseph who realizes, as he is dying, that his stepson will be the Man of Sorrows - and Jesus' refusal to save Joseph because it's his time is Mary's first sign that things will not go the way she expected. Will she spend the rest of her life bitterly waiting for Jesus to become the awaited warrior-king and prove to the world that she didn't sleep with Joseph before their wedding?<br />Ms. Rivers has taken a daring risk by making her Mary a not-necessarily likable person who, for instance, can only see her children with Joseph as falling short of her expectations after having raised the only perfect child who ever lived. Herein lies the point. Up until now, the series has been admirably non-denominational. Ms. Rivers, a Born-Again Christian, deliberately makes the point that Mary was a normal person just like you and me - and in no way divine. I'm Protestant myself - and this is in fact one of the cornerstones of our denomination - but Catholics, you've been warned...<br />This is actually in some ways my least favorite of the series, although I see what Ms. Rivers was trying to do. Read it to complete her vision, but also try the excellent &quot;Two from Galilee&quot; by Marjorie Holmes, which I feel covers the relationship between Mary and Joseph better.	2001-12-09
US	50814665	R2823TMLMYU0TF	0062501178	664235755	The Son of Laughter	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	My favorite biblical fiction	Jacob, to be truthful, had never really spoken to me before this novel.  This hauntingly beautiful retelling seeks to explain why he acted the way he did without whitewashing him.<br />The well known stories of his relationships with his parents and twin brother Esau are here, as well as his two wives and sons and the famous ladder dream and wrestling match with the angel.<br />Jacob is no saint (for instance, the fact that he barely sees Bilhah and Zilpah as people when he thinks of them at all subtly brings the point home of what being a slaveowner really means), but he has spoken to Mr. Buechner through the ages about why he was justified in doing what he did to Esau and preferred Joseph to such an extent over his other sons (Joseph, incidentally, is the most loveable character in the book, finally breaking the cycle of pain as the embodiment of the reconciliation of Jacob's mind to Esau's heart, and Jacob's retelling of Joseph's story - presumably from what his son told him after their reunion - is beautiful and one of the highlights of the novel).  Through his life there is only one constant - God - and their relationship reminds us how frightening the Lord must have seemed at times to the patriarchs and matriarchs long before the Good News.<br />Buechner's voice for Jacob is utterly compelling, and the novel is biblically sound with one major exception.  Like many before him and doubtless many who will follow, he doesn't deal with the thorny Biblical fact that Dinah was raped and Jacob wasn't all that concerned about it (the issue is skirted by theorizing that Jacob knew Dinah loved Sheckem and what happened between them was consentual).<br />This will eventually become a classic.  Please note that at times it is rather sexually explicit - definitely an R rating.	2001-12-09
US	50814665	RLV4VSF7AFJO0	0060611413	239825046	Peculiar Treasures	Books	4	19	19	N	N	Thoughts to Ponder	Having enjoyed Mr. Buechner's biblical fiction, I also picked up this volume of his musings on the people of the Bible.  I wasn't disappointed.<br />I don't know if I would recommend it as a who's who to non Christians who want a quick reference - some of the entries don't make sense if you don't know your Bible - but for those who do, it's an often amusing reflection on our faith.  It's also sometimes profound.  Some of my favorites - Why do discussions of David and Jonathan anymore seem to revolve around whether or not they were gay and miss the point of their wonderful friendship?  What would Uriah have to say about his murder if he could chat with us now?  Was Gabriel as scared as Mary during the Annunciation?  What happened if, as is likely, Jesus and Judas met again when Jesus descended into hell?  <br />This is one to keep next to your Bible.  Mr. Buechner's worldview is comforting and compassionate, and this volume speaks as a little gospel light.	2001-12-07
US	50814665	R3VG0OYZSLP5A1	0842319255	949398669	John, Son of Thunder	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	A different version	Most of us think of John as the lucky disciple - the one who didn't die a martyr. Ms. Traylor makes the point that his lot may have been the hardest of all in this fictionalized account of the life of the young man who stood at the cross with Mary and the old man who wrote the book of Revealation.<br />Living to be an old man meant, for John, the horror of seeing everyone he ever loved die - not only Jesus but his earlier mentor John the Baptist, his brother James, best friend Peter, adopted mother Mary and even the young disciples following Paul. It isn't until the end of his life that he comes to understand, through what he learned from Christ, that it's our souls and not our bodies that count. Only then is he given the rather dubious gift of the vision of the Apocalypse, ad he finally understands why he was meant to survive his loved ones.<br />The book is quite biblically sound, with the possible exception of the notion that Mary sister of Lazarus was the love of John's life - and althought it's not mentioned in the Bible there's no real reason why it couldn't have been true. All the characters are well written, so you feel awful when John looses them even though you know what's going to happen (I especially liked the charming portrait of Peter's brother-adoring and painfully shy &quot;little&quot; brother Andrew and the powerful, heartbreaking depiction of John the Baptist's last thoughts). A good addition to your biblical fiction library	2001-12-06
US	50814665	R229N8J9ZWHSA5	0824941810	70889212	The Ideals Guide to Places of the American Revolution	Books	5	8	9	N	N	An Enthusiast's Dream	With this book in hand, look up the state you're visiting and you won't miss any important Revolution sites.  Having made pilgrimages to Boston, Philidelphia and Annapolis before I had this book, I can attest that as far as I know it left no major site unmentioned when I sampled the sections on these essential Revolution cities, and included many sites in more obscure locations one might otherwise miss.  Great and abundant  pictures make this a fine collectible for Revolution enthusiasts who have visited the sites as well as those who are unable but would like visuals.	2001-12-05
US	50814665	R2QWVBAE8OB215	0295972599	331335983	Looking at Totem Poles	Books	5	25	26	N	N	A tour of the Northwest	This is absolutely essential for anyone going to British Columbia or Alaska.  It gives a brief description and explanation of almost all the important outdoor totem poles you'll come across, taking you through the poles figure by figure.  I found it invaluable when in Victoria's Thunderbird Park and Vancouver's Stanley Park and Museum of Anthropology.  A real gem you'll read over and glance through again once you're back home.	2001-09-04
US	50814665	RTDXGPPM98RQX	0295975245	144713376	The Raven Steals the Light	Books	5	17	18	N	N	A Haida legend primer	I brought this book on a trip to Vancouver and Victoria and read it in the evenings after returning to my hotels. As a European American, I found it indispensable to understanding much of the art I saw on vacation (especially Totem Poles). This book relates many of the best known Haida stories, including those of the noble, tragic Bear; the intrepid, versatile human fisherman-hunter Nanasigmit and above all the amoral but always fascinating Raven. Almost all the stories are simple, yet strike a deep chord. Add this to &quot;Looking at Totem Poles&quot; and &quot;Kwakuitl Legends&quot;, both also reasonably priced, and you'll be well on your way to understanding the basics of First Nations culture.	2001-08-30
US	50814665	R6NNYGBJSKYDY	0192835033	160604498	The Jungle Books (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	12	20	N	N	A True Original	The Jungle Books are usually marketed as juvenile fiction.  True, this is essential reading for children, but it's even deeper when you read it as an adult.<br />Although &quot;Rikki-Tikki-Tavi&quot; and &quot;The White Seal&quot; are just as good as the least of the Mowgli stories, it is the various tales of the boy raised in the jungles of India that are - and justifiably - the heart of the collection.<br />As a baby, Mowgli is found and raised by a clan of wolves and three godfatherly mentors who each teach him about life in different ways - Baloo the Bear, who teaches him the technical laws he'll need to survive; Kaa the Python, the nearly archtypal figure who teaches him even deeper lessons; and Bagheera the Panther, who perhaps loves Mowgli most of all but understands all too well the implications of the ambiguous humanity of the boy he's come to care for.<br />The stories have it all, from the alternately humorous and frightening &quot;Kaa's Hunting&quot;, where Mowgli learns an important lesson about friendship and it's responsibility, to the epic &quot;Red Dog&quot; that reads like something out of Homer, to &quot;Letting in the Jungle&quot; which, without giving anything away contains a disturbing paragraph that's both glaring and a long time in coming if you've read between the lines in the previous Mowgli stories and yet at the same time so subtle you can almost miss it's importance.<br />If you didn't read it as a child, read it now.  If you did, read it again as an adult.	2001-08-01
US	50814665	R3QZ6ICY2CJZLS	0553213393	904052489	Inferno (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Greetings from Hell	Many writers have imagined what the underworld is like, from ancient times to our own - but no one has ever matched Dante's nightmare, written as a warning to a Renaissance Florence that would face the Great Plague only a generation later.<br />We begin as Dante is met by the ancient poet Virgil, his guide on this first leg of a tour of the afterlife (Purgatorio and Paradiso follow - Inferno, regarding sin, despair, and a little gossip of Dante's time, is of course the most powerful and popular of the trilogy). He meets the righteous heathens who were not exposed to Christianity but may have hope of heaven eventually, and further on those guilty of relatively minor sins like adultery and gluttony. But soon enough they reach that famous gate after which all hope is to be abandoned. Be afraid. Be very afraid.<br />This is a fascinating document of the ethics of the time, and it's interesting to compare Dante's morality to our own in the 21st century. For Dante premeditated intent is everything, which means that a hotheaded murderer is on a higher level of hell than, for instance, a deliberate flatterer - something I think it's safe to say most of us would violently disagree with. It's also quite interesting to watch Dante himself change, as he moves from compassion (he actually meets some departed friends, especially in the less tortuous upper levels) to occasional viciousness (as he not surprisingly meets departed enemies, especially in the unspeakable lower levels).<br />This is also a horror story of the first rate. If you doubt this a reading of, for instance, Ugolino's account of his starvation with his sons and grandsons near the end should change your mind in a hurry - and there are many other examples. Aside from Virgil's presence there is very little relief as the punishments become more and more horrific.<br />If you have a glimmer of fear for your immortal soul and a good imagination, this is potentially nightmare inducing stuff that's likely to keep you good for quite some time to come.good for quite some time to come.	2001-07-29
US	50814665	R2KHJF0QC5PFN7	0836135261	122178149	Leah (People of the Promise)	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	A different take on the Jacob story	This is a lovely little retelling of the Jacob story from his first wife Leah's point of view.<br />In love with Jacob but realizing that he's barely noticed her, Leah takes desperate measures and pulls the world's most famous bed trick.  With Jacob believing himself finally in bed with Leah's younger sister, the beautiful Rachel, they consumate their marriage and when the morning light comes Jacob finds that he is saddled with a woman he doesn't love - although in time he gets his Rachel as well.<br />Leah consoles herself with the knowledge that she is the mother of Jacob's sons, with Rachel apparently barren.  But then the long-awaited Joseph is born, and Leah must bear the disinheritance of her eldest son, goodhearted Reuben, who has done nothing wrong except to not be Rachel's (the Bilhah scandal is never mentioned, which is a shame as it would have been interesting to see Leah's reaction to Reuben's one major moral lapse).  Leah must draw on inner strength and God to deal with the difficult times that follow, including the Shechem massacre and it's aftermath, a sickening suspicion that her sons had something to do with Joseph's death (and this version ends grimly, as Leah did not live long enough, as Jacob did, to find out that Reuben saved Joseph by suggesting he be thrown into a well instead of killed outright) - and, always, the knowledge that Jacob will always love Rachel more than her.<br />It is not until the end of her life that Jacob shows Leah that he has noticed how she has been the glue that binds the family together and how much her intelligent advice has meant to him, even if it was Rachel's bed he went to most nights.  And, of course, it is Leah - not Rachel - who is honored with a place in Jesus' ancestry.<br />Shott keeps the novel in historical perspective, not trying to modernize the morality of biblical times.  He also intriguingly picks up on the Bible's mention of Leah's bad eyesight and vividly describes what it must be like to live in aworld where you have to ask someone to tell you what's going on if it's more than a few feet from you.	2001-05-28
US	50814665	R1WZ4AGGYIHWOK	0792270207	613003653	Hunting With the Moon: The Lions of Savuti	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A wonderful supplement	No nature video collection is complete without at least two or three of the Joubert's works on the wildlife of Botswana, and this book complements their video work wonderfully.<br />The major focus of their work has been the elephants and lions of Botswana, but the book is a good overall view of the wildlife of the Savuti area.  Fans of the videos will enjoy the memories they share, such as their agonizing  but ultimately correct decision to let Tau the cub fend for himself and the day they gave Ntchwaidumela his name.  <br />It is not always an easy read.  Their subjects have not always fared well - in particular they painfully inform us that all but one of the adult male lions in their study group, including the five who starred in their two lion movies, have since been killed by hunters.  Their annotated field notes, &quot;The African Diaries&quot;, also in print, is largely about how this situation has forced them to take time away from behind the camera to be active in politics.<br />But this work is largely about happier days and the making of some classic videos.  The still photographs within make this book worthy of becoming a classic itself.	2001-02-12
US	50814665	R2I6TEWZMWZCF8	0253337739	846903644	Dinosaurs of Darkness (Life of the Past)	Books	3	14	14	N	N	A mixed verdict	One really has to give two reviews for this book.  As a chronicle of fieldwork, it rates a 4.  These folks had to face some of the most difficult excavating imaginable - tunneling through hard rock often being pounded by surf!<br />Unfortunately, they give us very little on their thoughts about the lives of the dinosaurs they found other than that their star hypsilophodont probably had unusually acute vision, and fail in that respect where &quot;Digging Dinosaurs&quot; and &quot;Dinosaurs of the Flaming Cliffs&quot; succeed so wonderfully.  One gets the impression that they rushed this book out before fully completing their research, which is a shame because this could have been a very good book indeed if there had been a bit more about the dinosaurs themselves.  For fans of dino behavior this really is only a 2.	2000-12-09
US	50814665	R1K024W1OOTFI9	0743407245	201366598	The New Dinosaurs	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A dino masterpiece!	It just doesn't get any better than this - gorgeous drawings accompanying written snippets of fictional dinosaur life.  Almost every type of dinosaur is well represented except the ostrich dinos.  Some of the stories are based on specific famous finds like the &quot;Fighting Dinosaurs&quot; of Mongolia, Ostrom's Deinonychus-Tenontosaurus death assemblage, and what seems to be a wild interpretation of the Glen Rose trackway. Others are unproven scenarios that are likely to have occured, perhaps the most inspired being a vignet about the dinosaurs living at the exact time and space where the continents started to divide. With the original work flanked by art based on the latest finds, this book is up to date at the moment, and brings dinosaurs to life in a way more technical books just can't. <br />By the way, you may not want to buy this for bedtime reading for the kiddies unless you feel like explaining Parasaurolophus sex!	2000-12-09
US	50814665	R2AKN2A71M9BIR	080186481X	639320447	Quest for the African Dinosaurs: Ancient Roots of the Modern World	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Where's the dinos?	I was really excited to find this book had been rereleased, and grabbed it the minute I saw it. It has a good reputation, and I had liked Jacob's &quot;Lone Star Dinosaurs&quot;.  Unfortunately, only about half the book is actually about dinosaurs.<br />A person writing about dinosaurs may have a scientific duty to make the point that dinosaurs were not alone in their world and a moral obligation to discuss the indigenous population if they're describing a dig in a third world country.  I can even sympathise with the fact that Jacobs found the giant crocodile and early mammals his expeditions found as fascinating as the dinosaurs but knew that he'd have less of an audience if he didn't push the dinosaurs.  But he (or his publishers) should have bitten the bullet and been more honest with the book's title once these other considerations were given as much paper as they were. <br />That being said, a chapter about Malawisaurus is currently the best source for the general public about Titanosaurid sauropods.  As for African dinosaurs in general, this and Phillipe Taquet's interesting &quot;Dinosaur Impressions&quot; are our choices at the moment unless and until we get a book about the turn-of-the-century German expeditions or - more likely - Paul Sereno's recent work.  A good, up-to-date work on the dinosaurs of Africa has yet to be written.	2000-11-18
US	50814665	R9RPUKR5N132N	0679454489	312807149	Merrick (Vampire Chronicles)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Both Chronicles Continue...	Anne Rice has written the first crossover novel of the Vampire and Mayfair Witches Chronicles.<br />The Vampire Chronicles return to New Orleans after time primarily spent in Italy.  Of greatest interest to Vampire Chronicle fans is the return to the forefront of Louis, seriously trying to get up the nerve to do himself in and as devestated as ever by Claudia's fate.  <br />With the other vampires gone and Lestat once again in an apparently comatose state, David uses his worry over Louis as an excuse to contact his protege and sometime lover Merrick, a Mayfair Witch who he hasn't seen since his body switch and misses desperately.  He asks Merrick to raise Claudia's spirit so that Louis can know the state of her soul.  The question is not weather Merrick can, but weather her very contact with David and Louis will corrupt her despite their best intentions. <br />Some of the novel is disturbing - especially when David talks about his rather sordid past - but then again, the whole point of the series (at least to me) is the struggle between good and evil impulses and the consequences when evil wins out.<br />Although not my favorite of the series, no one who's kept up with the chronicles is likely to want to miss finding out if Louis finally gets some closure.  And as always, New Orleans - itself one of the series' main characters - haunts you long after you've finished the last page.	2000-10-25
US	50814665	RFONQJ44YACQ2	0874805562	971055408	Dinosaurs Of Utah	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	The best popular adult book on U.S. dinos	This book is about the dinosaurs of Utah (and dinosaurs found close enough to Utah that it can safely be presumed they crossed the border), but it is also second to none I've read as a discussion of U.S. dinosaurs in general if you're already brushed up on your dino basics (although not overly technical, the author does waste no time in getting down to business). <br />The book covers equally the great dinosaurs of the midwest - especially the Jurassic dinosaurs the area is world famous for - and their environment (an asset or a negative depending on your interests).  A particular strength is that almost equal space is given to the more obscure species and their more famous counterparts when the fossil record warrants it.  Gorgeous artwork clinches this work as a gem - certainly in my top 10 dino books.	2000-10-16
US	50814665	R2XAHFSPPF7AWR	0140234020	506495276	The Wars of the Roses: Through the Lives of Five Men and Women of the Fifteenth Century	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A great supplement	This history follows five second tier players through the War of the Roses:  William Hastings, Edward IV's best friend; Jane Shore, their mistress; Margaret Beaufort, the mother of Henry Tudor - the top Lancastrian during the second phase of the war; Archbishop Morton, Henry's crafty advisor and the Earl of Oxford, a ranking Lancastrian.<br />This is not a good introduction to the war, not really revolving around the major players like Edward, Henry, Margaret of Anjou and Richard III - but if you are already familiar with the basics (read: Allison Weir), this should be the second book on your shelf about the subject.   Each of the five protagonists changed the tide of the war at some point in either the battlefield, bedroom or negotiating room, and Seward makes their stories as riveting as the latest tabloid even when you know what's going to happen next.  Especially interesting is the summary about the rest of the lives of the four survivors - most accounts of the war end with Richard III's death, their fates lost in the shuffle.  Here, in this book, they get their due.	2000-10-06
US	50814665	R13WWT4UBHIK9I	0393970124	821153252	Dracula (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	4	23	26	N	N	The Original Vamp	This is the horror novel that launched a thousand vampires.<br />Actually,  it's not really a novel - it's a collection of letters. Two women, best  friends Mina and Lucy, are happily sharing their love lives with eachother  on paper.  Mina is about to marry her beau Jonathan Harker; and Lucy is  trying to choose between Dr. Arthur Seward and Quincey Morris, true-blue  good guys both.  Suddenly, a stranger from Transylvania comes to town and  Lucy becomes gravely ill.  Seward writes to his mentor, Dr. Van Helsing for  help.  The good doctor does indeed know what they're dealing with, but he's  too late to save Lucy.  The group barely has time to grieve before strange  things start happening, and by the time they realize that the  stranger,Dracula, is in fact a vampire, he's set his malevolent eye on  Mina...<br />Some people find the letters tedious, and that there's far less  of Drac around than they'd expected - but try to read them as if you also  don't know what he is yet.  The &quot;news clipping&quot; about the  Ghost-ship's arrival from Transylvania, for example, is still chilling -  and the final chase scene, in which the friends lose one of their own,  still packs an emotional and adrenaline punch.	2000-09-06
US	50814665	R2LR36DMCIK0D9	0805052046	93173420	A Place of Greater Safety: A Novel	Books	5	111	119	N	N	A sweeping masterpiece	This is quite likely ther greatest historical fiction ever written about the French Revolution.<br />It follows the careers of three of the  revolution's architects - Georges Danton, who wants to be rich and famous;  Camille Desmoulins, who wants just once in his life to make his father  proud of him; and sensitive Robespierre, Camille's school friend who  believes there's something wrong with the system but isn't out for  blood.<br />Camille is center stage at the storming of the Bastille - a stage  he will never quite again regain.  Danton becomes involved in the political  aftermath, and they drag Robespierre kicking and screaming into the  bloodbath that follows.<br />Eventually Danton is softened by the death of his  long-suffering wife and Camille is horrified when friends start to go to  the guillotine.  Robespierre, however, has indeed become the fanatic they  wanted to make him.  They realize he must be stopped - but with Danton  involved in government corruption and Camille seen weeping publicly for a  condemned prisoner and emotionally torn between his two friends, it may be  too late...<br />The storytelling here is masterful, sympathies wavering from  one of the trio to another - an amazing feat considering that the  &quot;Citizens&quot; have to be among history's great mass murderers.  The  book is long, but nothing really could have been left out - the Revolution  was this epic in scope.  Other historical figures weave in and out of the  narrative - an initially stupid and vain but ultimately moving Marie  Antoinette; briefly but memorably a harried Lafayette who realizes they are  at the brink of something far more horrible than the Revolution's older  sister in America but can't change the tide of history by himself; and many  others - above all a frightening Marat.<br />Mantel purposely kept Marat a  supporting character because he was a bit older than the main characters  and thus his story is a bit different than theirs.  She hopes to write hisstory eventually, and I can hardly wait to see the results.	2000-08-23
US	50814665	R34TU4O8FQ7WDC	0393007367	103876003	Shakespeare Our Contemporary (Norton Library)	Books	5	17	20	N	N	A Classic of Modern Shakespeare Criticism	This is not - repeat not - necessarily a call for the Midsummer Night's Dream fairies to be played as a motorcycle gang, Richard III to be played  as Hitler or Romeo to shoot up instead of drink poison - although this book  has inspired all of the above. It is, however, a brilliant call for actors  and directors to bring their life experience to Shakespeare.<br />In Kott's  case, this means life under communist Poland.  He identifies with those  characters who live under regimes in which one wrong word can mean the  gallows - especially those characters in the history plays.  Yes, if we  think about it, their sense of dread and suspicion must have drastically  affected their whole lives - but it is Kott's genius to state the obvious  so eloquently.  This is politics not as rhetoric but as it affects everyday  life. A must read for anyone who loves or is about to act in Shakespeare's  political plays.	2000-08-18
US	50814665	R14WCKK0MQ8WND	0140445277	569503661	The Brothers Karamazov (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Unforgettable	This is, quite simply, the greatest book ever written.<br />It is about many things, but most of all about guilt - what constitutes it and how it  affects us all.<br />The main characters are three supremely different  brothers - Dmitri, a hedonist; Ivan, a sharply intelligent cynic; and  Aloysha, the gentle youngest brother studying for the monastic life who  provides their only bond.  The three are subjected to the most horrible  father in all literature, and the story revolves around their reactions to  his murder.<br />None of them dealt the death blow, but there are other ways  of being guilty of a crime.  Is Dmitri guilty because he was on the way to  kill his father himself?  Is Ivan guilty because he left the house knowing  what was going to happen?<br />The tension mounts as Dmitri is arrested for  the crime and Ivan's whip-sharp mind becomes his worst enemy.  Can Aloysha,  facing his own spiritual crisis, convince Dmitri to defend himself and also  save Ivan from encroaching madness at the same time?<br />It's hard to pick a  favorite character because we love them all in such different ways - Dmitri  for his innate warmth, Ivan because his cynicism masks a deep pain that he  can't stop the atrocities that mankind commits against itself, and Aloysha  for his innocence and desperate need to believe in his brothers' essential  goodness.<br />Like life, the novel provides no neat, pat answers - it's the  journey that counts.  Readers too wrapped up in the plot will miss the  development of three of the most fascinating and moving characters in  literature.	2000-08-11
US	50814665	R1USWS8S06D371	0140433228	216287092	The Grandissimes: A Story of Creole Life (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	14	16	N	N	"Do the Right Thing" - a century before the movie!	This farsighted inditement of Southern society is still powerful today.<br /><br />Much of the story is seen through the eyes of Joseph Frowenfeld, a young Northerner of German background who has just moved to Louisiana with his family. He is soon left bereft by yellow fever, and with nothing to go back to is befriended by several kind souls, chief among them Honore Grandissime, the scion of a filthy rich Creole family.<br /><br />He is quickly dismayed by the inequities of New Orleans society, a confession that prompts his new friend to pour out his heart to him. Honore, who knows what his family is, longs to reach out to his Mulatto half-brother and share the family business with him. He also wants to do right by the beautiful and virtuous Aurora Nancanou and her daughter Clotilde, who have been left destitute (by genteel standards, anyway) after Honore's father murdered Aurora's husband and swindled her. Honore would like to court Auroura, but honorable man that he is doesn't want to take advantage of her by performing his good deed barely before knocking on the door. In short, he wants an end to the moral decay of the old South.<br /><br />He is not so deluded, however, as to think he can live happily ever after married to Auroura with his brother at his side. The Grandissime family will not give up it's ill-gotten wealth and prestige without a fight, and with few exceptions save his delightful cousin and protege Raoul - who is still too young to have a voice in family affairs - he is virtually alone.<br /><br />Inspired by his new friend, Honore finally makes his lonely stand, unsure that his efforts will bear fruit - or even that they won't end with a Grandissime bullet in his back.<br /><br />Honore must rank as one of the most likable of literary heroes - a good man who you can unreservedly sympathise with and root for. The point is not that he succeeds - we are left very much uncertain on that point - but that he has the strength to be the first to fight for what he knows in his heart is right. It's a struggle that many concientious white people are facing now long after this book was written.It's a struggle that many concientious white people are facing now long after this book was written.	2000-06-14
US	50814665	R3C0V7OPFR3L4X	0394432622	928897898	Kristin Lavransdatter: The Bridal Wreath; The Mistress of Husaby; The Cross	Books	5	16	16	N	N	The Life of a Medieval Woman	This marvelous trilogy relates the story of a 14th century woman, Kristen Lavransdatter, from childhood to deathbed.  What a journey it is.<br />Kristen starts off raised by an adoring father and a distant mother.  Her father  betrothes her to the son of a neighbor.  She quickly comes to like Simon, a  kind, reliable young man who even adores children.  She is quite happy  until she meets the handsome, mysterious Erlend, who has a reputation for  trouble after having children with a woman who was married at the  time.<br />Kristen falls deeply in love with Erlend, and they begin a torrid  affair.  Eventually, Simon finds out; and Kristen demands he take the blame  for ending the engagement, now too far along to end without scandal - in  the selfishness of young love thinking only of Erlend's reputation.  Simon  agrees, in part because he's too nice - and wise - to force her to marry  him now, and in part to protect Kristen's father, who he likes, from being  forced into a duel with Erlend.  Kirsten gets her Erlend just in time, as  she is already pregnant.<br />The years go by.  Kristen makes peace with her  parents before they die and starts to raise a family.  Simon, not cut out  for either celibacy or childlessness, marries twice - the second time to  Kristen's sister - but ends up grievously wronging both wives because  they're just substitutes for Kristen.<br />As they enter middle age, Kristen  has come to realise that the traits that made Erlend such an exciting lover  also make him a less than admirable husband and father - and that it's  Simon who has always been there in her darkest hours.  But it's now too  late, and she must live with the choices she made in her youth.  She  devotes her life to God and her children, who give her the same joy and  pain she gave her own parents - and the circle of life completes  itself.<br />Beautifully written, this series turns one life into an epic.	2000-06-09
US	50814665	RVMESH28QT053	0684867192	792974017	Scandalmonger: A Novel	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Times change, but people don't!	A popular, charismatic politician cannot be proven guilty of financial misdeeds.  His enraged enemies keep digging and digging until they find personal dirt. <br />No, this was not the Clinton scandal.  It was what  happened to Alexander Hamilton during Washington's presidency - and he was  forever barred from higher office thereafter. That is just the beginning of  the story.  John Adams looses a chance for a second term after a diplomatic  scandal, but that's nothing compared to the skeletons that will arise from  Thomas Jefferson's closet.  Will all be revealed?<br />After reading this  book, one truly believes it's a miracle that our country survived it's  infancy.  Think about it - this mudslinging was going on before anyone even  knew if England was going to invade anytime soon.  After all, the  Revolution was only a generation old.  <br />The story is riveting from  beginning to end, and these are not your elementary school founding  fathers.  James Madison comes off likable, if weak willed; and you feel bad  for Adams, who for all his faults stayed on the straight and narrow.  But  most of the rest are a veritable viper's den.  Monroe is the ultimate  Machiavellian; and Jefferson is much, much worse - at least Monroe knows  what he is - Jefferson doesn't even realize what he has become.<br />The  shocking ending is based on fact, but much is Safire's conjecture.  It's up  to each reader to decide how close to the truth he's hit - but you leave  with the uneasy feeling that he may be uncomfortably close to home.	2000-05-26
US	50814665	R30B0YWYETTZ3X	0750916060	173670487	Letters of the Queens of England 1100-1547	Books	5	15	16	N	N	An important addition to any Medieval or Tudor library	This is a fascinating look into the lives of the women of the kings of England from Medieval to Tudor times.  These women were amazingly diverse, their letters ranging from kindly requests to their husbands on behalf of others to arrogant demands to their sons; from mundane business like  household expenses to true slices of history, like Eleanor of Aquitaine's  desperate plea to the Pope for her imprisoned son and the love letter that  sent Catherine Howard to the executioner's block.  There are also  interesting summaries before each woman's letters of their place in history  and the lives of their husbands and sons. Not to be missed by anyone  interested in the periods involved.	2000-03-05
US	50814665	R4K9FKT2CTDBS	0747233667	383961103	A Bloody Field by Shrewsbury	Books	5	55	58	N	N	A preview to the War of the Roses	This is a must read for anyone interested in the War of the Roses or the events that led up to it.  In some ways it is more accurate than Shakespeare's plays (Hotspur was not Hal's age but a few years older than  Henry, and like most royal murders we can make educated guesses but we  don't really know for certain how Richard died), and the missing pieces of  the puzzle that Ms. Pargeter inserts are believable (Hotspur's presumed  contact with Glendower during this period and Hal's relationships with  three men he loved in very different ways - and his reaction to the fact  that two of them would have to die, and the third sell his soul, for him to  become king).  Above all,  this is a very moving story about the emotional  cost of politics.  The fact that much of it may be close to the truth makes  it painful to read at times but even more poignant.	2000-02-05
US	50814665	R1BP4N5HW3UXXT	0385477759	332352105	Dinosaurs of the Flaming Cliff	Books	5	8	12	N	N	An essential update	Growing up in New York with the American Museum, I was an early dino fan.  I made my parents get all the dinosaur books I could find, and they all had three pictures in common.  The first was a poor Brontosaur being killed by  an Allosaur (preferably squashing said Allosaur in it's death throes).  The  second was a Tyrranosaur and Triceratops locked in combat through eternity  (said Triceratops preferably avenging the death of an innocent duckbill at  the jaws of said Tyrranosaur).  And the third was always a Protoceratops  defending it's eggs from a vicious Oviraptor - the third in the unholy  carnivorous dinosaur trinity, because we had never heard of  Velociraptor/Utahraptor.<br />This was only twenty years ago, and recent  discoveries have turned this whole third scenario on it's head.<br />The  American Museum's expeditions to Mongolia have changed everything we know  about Oviraptor.  This one is a must for all dinosaur fans, taking us  through what the expedition has learned about Mongolian dinosaurs since the  seventies and describing the harrowing conditions that the expedition had  to face.	1999-12-13
US	50814665	RV2L7DSRIL8TV	0521583721	543974217	Dinosaur Impressions: Postcards from a Paleontologist	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A different view	As most of us dinosaur fans in North America are familiar only with the great U.S./Canadian/Mongolian expeditions,  I noted with delight that a book had finally arrived about French expeditions.  For diversity alone,  this one belongs on any dinophile's bookshelf.  As Taquet is the discoverer  and describer of Ouranosaurus (a likely missing link between the  iguanadonts and duckbills), it's of particular interest to ornithopod  lovers.  Those familiar  with the American Museum of Natural History will  get a kick out of the cameo by the Mongolian expedition.	1999-12-08
