US	50813598	RT9KTJXONMM1N	0060009268	926354235	The Trouble With Valentine's Day	Books	1	8	17	N	N	Poorly Written/Edited ChikLit	Where was the hero? Rob was an egotistical jerk who never grew as a character or had ANY redeeming qualities by the end of the book. In the beginning he clearly was not hero material, an adulterer and a swagging jock who thinks he deserves a bit of something on the side for doing a good job at work. There was a  lot here for this so called hero to overcome but he never does. He doesn't seem to want to work at anything least of all his own problems; wait, he doesn't see that he has any problems. His relationship with his daughter was one Gibson could have used to make him appear human, yet it fell far short of anything closely resembling normal. The subplot with his exwife was so cliche and cluttered the book,  which served little purpose, but to annoy the reader.<br /><br />Kate on the otherhand was also extremely artificial and not very likeable.  Who could believe she was a once a PI, she seemed such a whimp whinning about Valentines Day?  She lacked any real depth of character, and made no attemp to grow from the conflict that put her in Gospel in the first place. She treated the people of Gospel as if they were stupid and she was there to redeem them. And this helps her through the  conflicts of her job HOW?<br /><br /> She treated her grandfather as if he was someone to be tolerated rather than comforted and respected. There was never any growth where one protagonist might help the other get over their conflct and in the process resolve their own. In fact there was no conflict, just a desire for sex. Where was the sexual tension? None, just \\"fornication\\" as Stanley says.  However on the plus side ( the only one in the book), there was Stanley and Rob's mom. Now that is a relationship that should have been celebrated and explored, a bit of the \\"real Gibson\\" shinning through here.<br /><br />This book was a disappointment from page one and grew to a resounding wall banger at the end. Romance readers read because they want romance, not just sex; they want to see characters solve their problems in ways that are believable which gives the reader a sense of hope in the human condition. It is the journey toward a meaningful relationship of which sex is but one part. There was no journey of toward lasting love here, just sex. This is the kind of story/plot  that gives romance fiction a bad name in mass market fiction; all fluff no substance.to see characters solve their problems in ways that are believable which gives the reader a sense of hope in the human condition. It is the journey toward a meaningful relationship of which sex is but one part. There was no journey of toward lasting love here, just sex. This is the kind of story/plot  that gives romance fiction a bad name in mass market fiction; all fluff no substance.	2005-03-20
US	50813598	R1X4RVODNOW198	0373218788	152012696	First Born (Morgan's Mercenaries)	Books	1	5	6	N	N	Don't Bother	As a loyal fan of MS Mckenna's early works I was very disappointed with this book. Ms Mckenna has many military books to her credit so... why in book #23 would she get something as simple as military ranks wrong. She has  her hero going the wrong directions from a CWO3 to a CWO2 as a promotion. OPPS!  This has been a growing problem with her more current books as well; a case in point she refers to women in the Navy as Waves. There haven't been WAVES in the Navy since the 70's. So a book in 1990's present shouldn't use that word, it isn't accurate and takes the knowledgable reader out of the story. If she can't get it right then get a copy editor who can. Military romance readers expect books to get military issues right, or why bother using the military theme.<br />Add to this the plethra of backstory filler about Morgan's story, which her loyal readers know, slowed the pace down considerably and didn't add to the story at all. Even if the reader didn't know Morgan's story so much backstory took away from the  H/H own story and it ended abruptly. Had that filler not been there would  have been more pages for a more intense story line for this H/H who deserved better care from such a seasoned author. The Native American mysticism was over done and a bit too preachy which short changed this reader's appreciation of the heroine.<br />She never created a believable enough dark moment from which the h/h can come to terms with their future. The hero has a big change in attitude but the transistion was not believable as it was not done through growth but NA mysticism. There was a lot  unsaid here between Morgan and Jason and this reader felt cheated. We see no change in the heroine at all, she comes off as too perfect and not real.  The story ended all too quickly leaving a bland taste in my mouth. It would be nice if Ms Mckenna can find her voice again like her books RED TAIL and BEGINNINGS.<br />If you have to read it find in a used bookstore.	2004-07-06
US	50813598	R2KY6J9H1FJY5N	0778320243	526661006	In Confidence	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Six Star Read	Karen Young doesn't disappoint readers. This latest offering is &quot;classic&quot; Young. What readers will love is her ability to keep the romance at the forefront of a suspenseful tale of incredible evil. Ms Young doesn't let either main plot take over at the expense of the other. Her characters are not only well fleshed out, but are the type of characters the reader can identify with and cares about when the last page is turned.<br />Romance fiction offers readers a wide variety of choices in the sub-genres, but every romance reader demands the &quot;romance&quot; always remain at the heart of the story. In  IN CONFIDENCE , Ms Young hasn't forgotten that simple rule and the reader is rewarded with a fantastic page turner they can't put down.<br />Brava!!	2004-02-13
US	50813598	R1CDR72W9XS1UC	0373273282	479497398	Aim for the Heart (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1258)(Eagle Squadron series)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Great Plot and Heroine	Having read the first two  offerings in Ms Weaver's Eagle Squadron, this book is a wonderful addition to the trilogy. The heroine is both heroic and vulnerable. The hero is a wonderful blend of both alpha and beta male, which is often missing in the military romances.<br />The plot is unique and revolves around the scientific discoveries of a scientist who is just too honorable for his own good. The plot moves quickly  with many twists and turns. Her loyal readers will be pleased to find the same comradery found in the first two books between members of this special squadron.  Only this time it is made more special when their lone female compatriot is threatend on the latest mission for the Eagle Squadron. Yet it is her heart that she is worried about. Readers will enjoy her struggle  to define the perameters of Captain Sarah Fox the warrior and MS. Sarah Fox the woman.<br />Readers who enjoy Catherine Mann, Candace Irvin, Merline Lovelace and Suzanne Brockmann will enjoy Ms Weaver's contribution to the growing number of military romances that have become popular with romance readers.	2003-11-19
US	50813598	R393M4L7GFW6Y4	0743442660	9090282	My Big Old Texas Heartache	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Witty Twist To A Well Used Romance theme	One has been hearing of late the echoes of complaints from readers who say romance authors are not offering anything new to the same old plots. I would have to say try this delicious new romance from a master storyteller Geralyn Dawson. In MY BIG OLD TEXAS HEARTACHE, Dawson takes the theme of a secret baby ( of sorts) into a new realm by adding a very creative twist. She has created a hero/heroine who the readers can identify with and compliments them with secondary characters who add just the right seasoning to make this a very tasty romance.<br />I loved her use of witty Texas humor, a trademark her loyal fans will recognize. She has a number of levels of plots here but is able to intertwine them into a complex story that is satisfying on many levels. The only draw back is the sexual tension is a bit on the light side but the plot is so well crafted you won't feel cheated.<br />I am looking forward to Nicholas's story and here's hoping Ryan will get his own story as well. This one should be at the top of any serious romance reader's to-buy-list.	2003-09-02
US	50813598	R1LNPKVHG1RKFS	0373711441	306066837	The Second Family : You, Me & the Kids (Harlequin Superromance No. 1144)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Where was the Sexual Tension?	The story begins with a great premise but as it is supposed to be a romance, it dies a very slow painful death. The mystery of who-done-it was well done, but took away from what little romantic conflict that was here. The romance was only a poor second to the story. Readers expect believable sexual tension and that the mystery will be secondary to that. There is no way the h/h could have come to their HEA conclusion, they didn't know each other well enough to make that resolution even remotely believable. Their conflict with each other didn't allow for satisfying sexual tension to develop. They were not a couple I could care about together, though the kids were.<br />The children were wonderful as well as their interaction with the h/h seperately. The hero was well defined and very likeable.<br />The heroine was only adequate: a bit selfish to really endear her to me and seemed out of character for the supposed issue of family unity. However, the h/h conflict, which should have been at the center of the story, seemed cliche and trite; nothing new and at best overused in this type of romance fiction.<br />If you read the story for the mystery you won't be too disappointed. Though for me it did end way to quickly with the strings all tied up neatly, which would have only been acceptable if the conflict of the h/h was at the center of the story, which it wasn't. But if you read it for the romance... the resolution between the h/h is a bust, as their sexual tension was sadly lacking. I was very disappointed with the lack of development of the supposed conflict of this couple. I felt cheated with the ending.<br />I love the fuller stories readers have come to expect from Harlequin SuperRomances but this was a rush job and so unlike the expected quality from this author. Save your money and read her back list if you want a satisfying romance.	2003-08-05
US	50813598	R1NYOHOW8ZWHHZ	0312265778	414570088	With a Vengeance	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	SHE'S BACK With A Vengeance!!!	Not since her BAD MEDICINE has Dryer provided readers with an intense tale of complex depth as is found in WITH A VENGEANCE. Clearly her on-the-job training with a real SWAT team of medics allowed her to provide readers with the kind of tale we have come to  expexct from this master storyteller. Though many may know her as romance writer Kathleen Korbel, she provides her mystery readers with slivers of romance without losing sight of the true focus of her story-suspense!!! This is one protagonist that won't be easily forgotten. Strong smart women heroines proving who is really the weaker gender!!!<br />This is one of those books once started can't be set aside, so set a block of time so you won't be interupted. When you enter Dryer's world all else seems secondary. This is a page turner not to be missed by serious readers of suspense/mystery. A 10 star read on 5 star scale!!	2003-04-06
US	50813598	R17KDVISRIAZC9	050552497X	441276549	The Last Male Virgin	Books	5	20	22	N	N	A fun premise with a message	I thought the premise was a breath of fresh air. Ms Deauxville's hero was a captivating delight and quite unique in a very sexy intelligent sort of way. The premise was uniquely funny. I found myself chuckling throughout the book at both his antics and their innocense. And if there was any draw back to the read, I did want to shake the heroine a bit, because she just couldn't get over wanting to please her family instead of herself. I think at times she was a bit whiny and a bit self depreciating. But when you get to the final pages, she very nicely redeems herself much to the hero and reader's delight. Very unexpected and the imagery was very well done.<br />Her hero is destined to be a favorite of many a reader; so male, so alpha but oh so interesting complex. This one should be read because it takes humor and romance to new heights along a journey that is just plain fun made all the more desirable because it is well paced with a clear resolution at the end.THE LAST MALE VIRGIN is a wonderful place to escape to for an afternoon of humorous bliss.	2002-10-01
US	50813598	RGP8HX0DE7S1G	0345447395	543272644	The President's Daughter: A Novel	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Wow Romance and supense at its best !!!!	Ms Stewart has done it again, a wonderful tale with just enough twists and turns to please even the most skeptical reader. I loved how she keeps the reader involved in solving the mystery as the romance between Dina and Simon progresses. Romance readers might be caught off guard when the h/h don't meet until a third of the way into the story but when they do...  only with Ms Stewart's deft hand at creating characters readers care about will the story take on new satisfying depth.<br />I loved the ironies in the book that seemed to attack our own prejudices about the press and their lack of ethical high ground. This one is what Romantic Suspense is supposed to be about (a well crafted blending of Romance and Suspense) but so often isn't.  Neither romance readers nor suspense readers will be let down with this one.<br />Ms Stewart has once again proven she has a unique talent for writing romantic suspense first offered with THE BROWN-EYED GIRL, a classic Romantic Suspense. THE PRESIDENT'S DAUGHTER is a fine example of an author growing in her craft where the reader is the one is the one who benefits the most. I couldn't put this book down after page one; I just had to know who and why things were happening. There was never a lull in the action, a sure sign of professional storyteller.  Readers will come to care about this hero and heroine well after they solve the mystery of a cover-up, political secrets and the all-important \\"who dunnit\\". THE PRESIDENT'S DAUGHTER will be read and reread as it sure to be a Keeper on many a reader's shelf. CLASSIC ROMANTIC SUSPENSE AT ITS BEST.	2002-08-09
US	50813598	R6ZWEAEQLEGF4	0373710704	682387803	Midway Between You and Me: In Uniform (Harlequin Superromance No. 1070)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Hurray!!!! Finally an  Asian Heroine	This has to be one of the best finds of the year. The story is fresh and her use of flashbacks was deftly done, adding much to the story. The plot has an on-the-edge-of-your-seat sense of suspense but she doesn't plant any red herrings and certainly offers up a chance for the reader to figure it out but even when they do the story only gets better. Her hero rivals any of those found in a Suzanne Brockman book, but he has his own sense of honor and dedication. That he isn't a SEAL but a SEABEE makes him all the more loveable to the reader and those who have read her first one will enjoy revisting some friends.<br />That Ms Brewer chose to set almost the entire book outside the US added much to the appeal. Nor did she sell out to the current trend in military terroism stories. The Vietnam element was an especially fresh touch and one I would like to see more of in military romances. She incorporates a number of well planned twists and turns which drive the reader on.  Though the ending is quite predictable, it is after all romance, she provides the reader with a romantic story to the very last page.<br />The only draw back, mind you not something the author had anything to do with, is the cover. The cover art was so far off base it was a joke ... the hero has both enlisted ranking (chevrons on the shoulders) and LT bars on his shirt. OPPS!!!!  Harlequin and Silhouette have had growing trouble getting some of their military covers right: no enlisted men in the Navy don't wear khaki (except Chiefs, though this man is clearly a second class petty officer) nor do officers wear khaki socks. It is frustrating to see an author create such an unique story only to have a publisher take so little care with its presentation. Not very professional nor does it support their cry it is the cost of cover art that is driving up the cover prices. Seems they surely aren't getting their money's worth. Here's hoping Ms Brewer's next book is able to break out of the catagory realm into single title where her talent for creating uniquely compelling books with characters/plots deserving of  professional presentation.<br />But that criticism aside, the story is bound to find its way to many a keeper shelf, I know for me it is right there along side Ms Brewer's SEAL IT WITH A KISS and SIGN, SEAL, DELIVER. Ms Brewer is a rising star to watch in this growing field of military romances. Few do it better!!!ngle title where her talent for creating uniquely compelling books with characters/plots deserving of  professional presentation. <br />But that criticism aside, the story is bound to find its way to many a keeper shelf, I know for me it is right there along side Ms Brewer's SEAL IT WITH A KISS and SIGN, SEAL, DELIVER. Ms Brewer is a rising star to watch in this growing field of military romances. Few do it better!!!	2002-07-26
US	50813598	R25ID42ZLOSHXS	1586190334	166043302	The Blood Remembers	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Barbara Erskine fans will love this new author!	As a fan of Barbara Erskine and Sharon Kay Penman, I found this book right up my alley. I enjoyed the protagonist and how the author was able to keep her at the forefront of the story. The historical elements were wonderful as was the description of the locations. As a big fan of books with reincarnation/genetic memory plot elements I was so impressed with the depth of this story. That it kept my interest to the final pages makes this one of this year's best finds for me. I look for more from this talented author in the future. Historical fans will love this one.	2002-07-19
US	50813598	R3J48ZADZ780V5	0451205804	923981954	Hazard	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Race and Anne are a uniquely suited couple !	Ms Beverly consistently provides her readers with stories set in popular periods: Medieval, Georgian and Regency. What sets her apart from the pack is she provides historical depth of location, and character without giving the reader a distracting history lesson. HAZARD is no exception, classic \\"Beverly Regency\\", not to be confused with other water-downed regencies that are often stale and predictable. Though some may find there isn't her usual dashing hero here - Race being a bit outside the sphere of the Rogues. However, through Race, she provides her readers with a very delightful combination hero: oft times Beta, but when provoked he is all Alpha male, much to the reader's delight. Anne on the other hand, was at times a bit wishy-washy (not a typical Beverly heroine). I would have liked a bit more backbone from Anne in the beginning. She let her handicap limit her. When she does finally become a \\"Beverly Heroine\\" it seems a bit too little, too late.<br />Together they are a delightful couple especially with their interaction creates wonderful moments of laughter and frustration for them both. They are a couple who readers will care about and delight in their discoveries of each other and their needs and wants. The only draw back for me was this recognition comes too late and shortchanges the necessary black moment, which wasn't that foreboding. She ties the ending up maybe to neatly without enough angst given their class problems. Help from an unexpected quarter was a nice touch and is sure to provide more readers in the future.<br />Ms Beverly has provided countless hours of fun with her Rogues and those who are in their inner circle. Many a reader wouldn't mind being part of that circle where friendship, loyalty and love are the cement that binds their friendships. As a spin off to other tales of the Rogues, HAZARD may not be one of her more bold stories. Yet, Ms Beverly provides the reader with a tale of two people who live just outside the boundaries of the their societies who together find a place in each other's arms that both satisfies and comforts them when little in the outside world does.<br />I found HAZARD as good as any of the other Rogue or Malloren stories and a nice change of pace with less than perfect characters who redefine what finding that special other half means. Readers who like the Rogues will be happy to see some familiar faces but this one can stand-alone. That Ms Beverly provides the reader with extraordinary characters, who are not what they seem, makes their discovery of a lasting love so very unique. A \\"Jo Beverly Romance\\" is what defines historical romances and she is one of this genre's reigning Regency Hostesses who would always have a voucher for Almacks.e their societies who together find a place in each other's arms that both satisfies and comforts them when little in the outside world does. <br />I found HAZARD as good as any of the other Rogue or Malloren stories and a nice change of pace with less than perfect characters who redefine what finding that special other half means. Readers who like the Rogues will be happy to see some familiar faces but this one can stand-alone. That Ms Beverly provides the reader with extraordinary characters, who are not what they seem, makes their discovery of a lasting love so very unique. A \\"Jo Beverly Romance\\" is what defines historical romances and she is one of this genre's reigning Regency Hostesses who would always have a voucher for Almacks.	2002-07-16
US	50813598	R34MXMZW283DPU	1551669196	190702677	Twice Burned (Mira Romantic Suspense)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	WOW!!! A mesmerizing page turner!!	This latest offering from \\"new on the romance suspense scene\\" Jan Coffey is sure to turn many readers heads. From the stunning cover to the incredibly satisfying tale within, this book is sure to become a classic in the romantic suspense sub-genre. It has all the important elements: characters readers care about from page one, a suspenseful plot with incredible depth (angst and hope), secondary characters who don't distract from the story but add richly to it and of course the all important ending sure to hold the reader to the final page.<br />Ms Coffey's talent to tell so much story in so few words makes her standout as a pioneer in this growing sub-genre. Add to this Ms Coffey is able to provide an incredible balance between the romance and suspense without one suffering for the other makes her a must read for serious romance readers. Something today's leading authors in this arena: Catherine Coulter and Julie Garwood, could learn from Ms Coffey.<br />That Ms Coffey is a mid-list author makes this affordable, but it won't be for long as a hardcover contract is surely on her horizon. Ms Coffey joins the ranks of other mid-list authors Dee Davis and Mariah Stewart in providing what is surely destined to be Classic Romantic Suspense. If you haven't  tried Romantic Suspense, why not start with the best, TWICE BURNED by Jan Coffey?	2002-07-12
US	50813598	R3BVHMZ0COVJU3	0425185435	619675261	The Suitor	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A Regency Period Romance With Depth and Angst!!!	Spin-offs often are a letdown, but Ms Hingston has out done herself with THE SUITOR. The reader, who was introduced to Katherine in HOW TO KISS A HERO, will realize it will take an incredible talent to make this snobby 'deb' not only a heroine, but a likeable one. Yet Ms Hingston's latest offering, THE SUITOR, is \\"THE\\" finest example of character transformation a romance reader will find in today's titles. This can only happen because of Ms Hingston's strong ability to keep this element (the transformation) before the reader. In doing so she provides an incredible experience for the reader who sees our spoiled brat experience her first pangs of love, a love that grows to provide not only a journey of adventure, but one of self discovery. That this journey is rich with disappointment yet laced with enough hope to keep the reader turning page after page toward a deliciously satisfying end.<br />Ms Hingston's hero is a wonderful compliment for our heroine. He is strong, deliciously sexy and yet quite vulnerable. This element of vulnerability and added mystery as to whom he really is, is what makes this such a wonderful read on a number of levels. There is one scene sure to evoke images from the movie A WALK IN THE CLOUDS. Yummy, Yummy!!!<br />Brava to Ms Hingston for actually convincing a romance publisher to allow her to create a sweeping tale that takes the reader from England to France, a setting we romance readers have been told is taboo, and back again on a wonderful rich journey. That this book is over 400 pages should alert the reader they are going to be treated to a multi-layered tale with twists and turns sure to move the reader toward a most satisfying end.<br />Ms Hingston, one of the often forgotten mid-list authors, consistently provides her readers with richly complex stories driven by characters and plots readers care about well after the last page is turned. THE SUITOR is a new breed of Regency period offerings which are giving new life to a subgenre which has become stale and predictable. What makes her approach fresh is she isn't caught up in the culture of the period at the expense of her story or characters. THE SUITOR will stand alone as keeper read, but why shortchange your enjoyment of Ms Hingston's talent by not reading the first in this series, HOW TO KISS A HERO as well .e which has become stale and predictable. What makes her approach fresh is she isn't caught up in the culture of the period at the expense of her story or characters. THE SUITOR will stand alone as keeper read, but why shortchange your enjoyment of Ms Hingston's talent by not reading the first in this series, HOW TO KISS A HERO as well .	2002-07-05
US	50813598	R3F1VEC32F85MF	0373710666	418927099	Practice Makes Perfect: Serenity House (Harlequin Superromance No. 1066)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Rich Emotion  Sure to Touch the Reader's Heart	I have found that there isn't a Shay book yet that hasn't been a wonderful read, each a cut above of what is being offered in the Superromance line from Harlequin.<br />The premise of this story is very well developed with a  delivery  fast paced, sure to keep the reader from putting it down to get back to their real life. However, the reader is going to have to like pushy male protagnonists. I felt at times  our heroine was the only one expected to reach a growth in character. Ms Shay could have tempered this story giving her hero some unique inner conflict for which our heroine could help him resolve.  A bit too one sided at times. Yet, Ms Shay was able to temper the hero's pushiness with rich, emotional compassion as his heroine found her way toward her heart's desire.<br />I look forward to the next two books in this series, with hope all the women first introduced in this story of the trilogy.will have a chance at finding their own special knight-in-shinning-armour. Of course if anyone can create that special female protagonist who can slay a few dragons of her own to win her prince, Ms Shay has the unique talent to make it happen.	2002-06-27
US	50813598	R2O6DAVES7T33U	1576739252	504651803	The Healer (O'Malley Series, Book 5)	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	A 6 star read on a 5 star scale!!!	As a fan of all her books, I was a bit let down with THE PROTECTOR but THE HEALER more than makes up for it. I want to know where to find heroes like Cole Parker, hurray for Beta Males!!!! This one felt like it was right off the front page of today's news but it was realistically handled creating both a  comforting and heart warming conclusion. There will be some wonderful surprises, with laughs and tears along the way, but then loyal O'Malley readers have come to expect the most human of emotions from this unique family.<br />Rachel and Cole were surrounded in love with all the family present, which can make for crowded quarters at times, but Ms Henderson handled it with a deft hand as she kept the mystery, and relationship in equal servings before her readers. Although each book does stand alone, if you haven't real all the of the O'Malley's this is not the one to start with, the impact of the journey will be lost. I know the reader will just have to find out who Dave/Kate, Marcus/Shari, Quinn/Lisa, Tom/Jennifer are from their respective stories, so this may not be the one to start with. Yet, buy it now and read them in order so you will have it done just in time to find out where troubled Stephen has gone in her last of the series THE RESCUER.<br /><br />Dee Henderson is the Queen of Inspirational romances and here's hoping more romance readers will discover her unique talent. Her characters are Christians with their journey in faith to grow with their God as part of the story, it is but a part of who they are. Her readers aren't preached at or brow beaten as is the case with many Christian writers, often leaving a bad taste in the mouth of those with who are non-Christian. Henderson's stories are what good Inspirational romances should be, but are so very often aren't.<br />Brava!!! Ms Henderson	2002-06-14
US	50813598	R184WYWSYDR1NB	1576738876	889242168	True Valor (Uncommon Heroes, Book 2)	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	A read that grows on you.	Having read all of Ms Henderson's books I especially like the first book in this series,TRUE DEVOTION. What made this new one in her military sereis a bit unique is the love grows through the strength of the letters our couple exchange while together and apart: she serving in the Navy and he in the Air Force. That they are both some of the time on very similar missions in the same part of the world allows for an incredibly dramatic rescue that is sure to keep the reader on the edge of their seat. In true Inspirtational Romance fashion there is no intimacy, however the sexual tension is there but more importantly so is the development of love for each other with their reliance on their faith.<br />What I especially like about all of Ms Henderson's books is that the characters are well steeped in their own spiritual faiths or their journey toward that end. She doesn't preach to the reader and her characters are not there as a means of converting the reader. Their spirituality is who they are and as characters searching for that one true love they rely on their spirituality to make it happen. Because of this Ms Henderson's books could easily stand side by side any single title romance that was not Christian based and hold her own in the development of the couple's search for that one true love. That through this series she has chosen to have her characters be in the military and in locations right off the front page news makes it that much more enjoyable.<br />I look forward to reading the next installment in this series and the O'Malley series. I am assured with future offerings of excellent reads which will allow me, the reader to identify with the individual journey toward faith and love through her incredible characters and interesting plots. Her research is impeccable.<br />I wish more romance readers would take the time to throw off their misunderstandings about Inspirational Romances, they can start by reading the reigning Queen of Classic Inspirationals...Dee Henderson. No one in the this sub genre does it better than Dee Henderson.e Henderson. No one in the this sub genre does it better than Dee Henderson.	2002-04-24
US	50813598	R3NE9JVBUU9CMI	0373259735	32291308	Hot On His Heels (Manhunting)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	"Sex in the City...Wisconsin style "	Looking for a fast read this one fills the bill in many ways. Ms Sharpe's characters have not only biting wit, but a sense of sophisticated humor a cut above both catagory and single title romances. The only drawback, if there is one, is that book was too short (the reader must keep in mind the guidelines of the line). One could only wonder where she could have taken this couple if she had been allowed more space, it would have been a sensual roller coaster ride for sure.<br />Today's readers are looking for books to make them laugh, yet this one offers the added bonus of well crafted sensuality that romance readers can't get enough of! HOT ON HIS HEELS will be devoured quickly leaving the reader with a satisfied sigh and ache for more. Thankfully we won't have to wait too long for the next installments of this \\"SEX IN THE CITY... Wisconsin Style\\" foursome which is sure to find its way to many a romance readers keeper shelf.<br />With the cry from publishers for more modern, hip, today's kind of heroines, it is nice to know authors like Isabel Sharpe have the unique talent to provide them without losing out on the reason most readers read romance....THE ROMANCE	2002-04-13
US	50813598	R2TH9SMGTQQB1N	0373710550	565387274	Fleet Hospital: In Uniform (Harlequin Superromance No. 1055)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	The first Chapter grabs the reader like no other.	Desipte the premise that a non-military type would be involved in such an investigation, this book is a very unique offering from Harlequin Superromance, which too often plays it safe with tried and true plots and characterization. The hero in this story is a typical hero of this subgenre, but what makes the book so unusual is the quirky heroine. She is tough, mouthy and admittedly claims she is white trash, but this author makes her so much more. Although the romance is there, there could have been more sexual tension between our couple, but what she does with the secondary cast of characters without cluttering the story up is quite amazing<br />I think what makes the plot so unusual is that it is more a suspense first and romance second. Once I accepted it I like the story so much more. That one would find such an intricate story in a Superromance makes it all the more unusual but that is really an advantage to the reader. There are enough clues for the guessing of the whodunit combined with some very unique and fresh twists to the story that it is a rare treat for the reader. The first chapter alone and all its angst and intensity makes the price of the book worth it, especially for unpublished authors who want to learn how to quickly reel in the reader.<br />Read the story for the strength of suspense and characterization and don't sweat the plot flaws. This is a very good example of an author writing outside the box and I am glad Harlequin took a chance on it as a Superromance.	2002-04-13
US	50813598	R2EIPMX0LBOH7S	0373259735	32291308	Hot On His Heels (Manhunting)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	"Sex in the City...Wisconsin style "	Looking for a fast read this one fills the bill in many ways. Ms Sharpe's characters have not only biting wit but a sense of sophisticated humor a cut above both catagory and single title romances. The only drawback, if there is one, is that book was too short(the reader must keep in mind the guidelines of the line). With the cry from publishers for  more modern hip today's kind of heroine, it is nice to know authors such as Isabel Sharpe have to the talent to provide them without losing out on the reason most romance readers read romance....THE ROMANCE. <br />Want a book to make you laugh with the added delight of well crafted sensuality?  HOT ON HIS HEELS is the ticket and will be devoured quickly leaving a wonderful aftertaste	2002-04-13
US	50813598	RTY2CFM1J5ARM	0804119767	277424100	Dark of the Night (Ivy Books Contemporary Romance)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Classic Romantic Suspense	It is always exciting to find an author who keeps getting better and better with each new book. With DARK OF THE NIGHT Dee Davis has created the new standard for excellence in Romantic Suspense.<br />What makes this book a classic is that she has been able to weave together the \\"romance\\" readers crave, within the body of a suspensful tale that pushes the reader scrambling toward a satisfying final page. Quite often in Romantic Suspense offerings either the romance or the suspense suffers at the expense of the other.  Yet not with this offering. Ms Davis has effortlessly blended the two together:  the romance nor the suspense plot suffers as both are professionally presented and executed creating an especially statisfying read. The reader will adore this hero and heroine who struggle to find a way to have what they each seek but not at the expense of those they care for. Although at times there seems to be maybe one to many subplots going on, she weaves them altogether making a rich tapistry the readers will cloak themselves in.<br />I appreciate an author who can leave just the right amount of clues along the way and still offer up some surprises to the very end. This is a fullbodied story with many twists and turns, yet the reader will appreciate the lack of red herrings so often used by authors to throw off the readers scent. It is apparent she always has the reader at the forfront of her story, something some more experienced authors could learn from.<br />Davis provides all the right ingriedients with an especially high level of sensuality in the romance, the sexual tension between our couple seems to increase effortly as they crave each other when the suspense heats up. With so many big names leaving traditional romance to enter this fast growing subgenre, it is wonderful to see a newcomer set the classic standard of what a romantic suspense should be. Garwood, Johanson and Coulter could take a few lessons from this newcomer on what  romantic suspense should be and often isn't.<br />If you haven't read any romance suspense before starting with this classic best may make all others pale in comparison. Yet, why not start with the best of this subgenre! If you read no other romanctic suspense book this year, DARK OF THE NIGHT should be on the top of your TBR pile. This one is surely destined to be a future RWA RITA recipient.be and often isn't. <br />If you haven't read any romance suspense before starting with this classic best may make all others pale in comparison. Yet, why not start with the best of this subgenre! If you read no other romanctic suspense book this year, DARK OF THE NIGHT should be on the top of your TBR pile. This one is surely destined to be a future RWA RITA recipient.	2002-03-31
US	50813598	R15R9IRMF2NJUB	0440236371	525635755	The Beauty (Bride Quest, Book 4)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The  Best of this newest Trilogy	THE BEAUTY is Jacqueline's story, but unlike many historical romances that are told from only the point of view of one of the<br />featured couple, this story showcases a very special couple: each with a unique voice. The BEAUTY is a sort of medieval Beauty and the Beast tale, but it is so much more.This second installment in the Scottish trilogy of the Bride Quest series by Claire Delacroix is sure to delight readers with its unique blend of both humor and deep emotions.<br />Jacqueline, Eglantine's first born daughter had barely escaped a betrothal that had ended in disaster when she was almost raped . She of all the daughters of Eglantine is the quiet soul with an inner beauty that out distances her outer beauty; at least that is how she believes others see her. But despite her many gifts she possess she is terribly frightened of men and is seeking a life as a Bride of Christ.<br />Angus MaGillivary is a battle weary Crusader who in the darkest days at Outremer held onto the dream of home. Yet, upon his arrival at Ardfinnan in the Scottish Highlands all was for naught when he learns his home has been taken and his  family are all dead. In an act of vengeance he and his often times funny side kick, Rodney decide to capture Mhairi, daughter of the man who he believes has destroyed his family. Blinded by the vengeance(no pun intended as our hero is blind in one eye) he captures the wrong maid with the resulting effect his heart and life will never be the same.<br />Although freightened of Angus, she learns despite his barbarian methods he is not a man to fear and begins to let down the barriers she has erected to keep men at bay. As they travel they experience a number of events that help develop a tenuous friendship, especially when she meets the mysterious Edanna who helps her to see Angus and what he could become when past wrongs are corrected. With the knowledge he will let her go back to her family when all is said and done, she begins to fall in love with this tortured hero, and in the process becomes more whole herself. But will they come far enough to have a life together?<br />As in the case of her other books Ms Delacroix effectively uses secondary characters (Rodney for humor, Edanna for mystery and Father Michael for gentle spirituality) to move the couple toward their satisfying end, even if they don't have a clue they deserve to be together. She even has a few surprises<br />that caught me off guard but none were red herrings and will delight the readers.<br />THE BEAUTY is a wonderful adaptation of the fairytale Beauty and the Beast sure to provide readers with many satisfying sighs of satisfaction. As in the case of the other two books in this trilogy, Ms Delacroix's greatest strength is creating brilliantly formidable heroes who in the company of their soul mates are gentle and loving, if a bit slow to realize they deserve the gifts bestowed on them. Although it could have been set anywhere outside of Scotland, it should be read for the plot and characters who seem to fit well into Ms Delacroix's medieval voice.tortured hero, and in the process becomes more whole herself. But will they come far enough to have a life together?<br />As in the case of her other books Ms Delacroix effectively uses secondary characters (Rodney for humor, Edanna for mystery and Father Michael for gentle spirituality) to move the couple toward their satisfying end, even if they don't have a clue they deserve to be together. She even has a few surprises<BR>that caught me off guard but none were red herrings and will delight the readers. <br />THE BEAUTY is a wonderful adaptation of the fairytale Beauty and the Beast sure to provide readers with many satisfying sighs of satisfaction. As in the case of the other two books in this trilogy, Ms Delacroix's greatest strength is creating brilliantly formidable heroes who in the company of their soul mates are gentle and loving, if a bit slow to realize they deserve the gifts bestowed on them. Although it could have been set anywhere outside of Scotland, it should be read for the plot and characters who seem to fit well into Ms Delacroix's medieval voice.	2001-12-17
US	50813598	R2U60IQG6L1F24	0440236401	176336582	The Temptress (The Bride Quest)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Yummy Hero,	THE TEMPTRESS has an almost fairytale quality missing in today's historical offerings and should please those who have been following the tales of the women of Ceinne-beithe. Yet, readers will wonder, is pampered lass  quest anymore important than that of a battle weary Crusader who must marry to consummate a quest of his own?<br />Esmeraude, is the youngest daughter of Countess Eglantine de Crevy, Now of a marriageable age, her mother and step father Duncan have assembled a number of eager knights who will vie for her, as much as for her dowry and womb. Yet, like many of the maids in this series her heart is full with the expectation of seeking her own destiny: a lovematch.  Bayard of Villionne is a battle hardened Crusader who, despite is conflict with his choice of liege Lord, is held captive by the desires of his grandmother and family honor. When he arrives at Ceinne-beith as a well accomplished knight he doubts not that he will succeed for the hand of the young maid, who he assumes is an maid of country innocence. He rises to the challenge of the pursuit of this maid, not unlike those same challenges  found on the battlefield.<br />But can he stay one step ahead of an evil bent on keeping him in his place, and one surely bent on destroying Esmeraude as well. Of course is it any wonder with THE TEMPTRESS's fairytale-like quality there should be just such evil. Unlike those of our childhood fairytales, there is not a traditional<br />dragon to slay but one of a two legged variety readers should discover early in the book.<br />Although a fun read there are a number of elements of the story that bothered this reviewer. First and foremost was the heroine who at times seemed to be so out of character for the time period(ie... her willingness to give her virginity away so casually and putting her need to find a man to love her rather than what she could bring to the relationship) Virginity being a gift that can only be given once, seemed to be less important to her than giving her heart. Yet, to this reviewer the giving of such a gift seems to be  convincing only when she knows the receiver also has given his heart to her. Thier coupling  certainly was well written, one the reader will enjoy.<br />The hero, who made the book for me was also not without his contradiction of character.  At first in the presence of Emeraude's family and other knights his chivalrous honor shines through like a beacon proclaiming all the good that a fairytale knight should be with honorable declarations of his intentions. Certainly he outshines the other knights present with his diplomacy at the court of the Lord of Isles and elsewhere. So when did his armor get tarnished, or at best lose a bit of its shine?<br />When he meets our tempting maid he knows who she is yet quite  wilingly takes what is offered, not very chivalrous in the great scheme of things. This reviewer would have enjoyed seeing him with a bit more angst both above and below the beltline. Denial of ones desires makes the gift all the more special. But with this said, this is after all a work of fiction, a well crafted journey where the reader escapes the woes of the real world: one where evil is conquered but only when true love is found.<br />THE TEMPTRESS has wonderful secondary characters, especially Celie. She provides the heroine with a level headed sidekick who knew the score from the start. For loyal readers of the series the appearance of not only Duncan and Eglantine but Angus and Jacqueline will add to the enjoyment of Bayard's and Esmeraude's quest of the heart as well. Also  Ms Delacroix does more than just an adequate job with her medieval voice, she has a rare gift readers should enjoy. For it is not so much her choice of words that are exceptional, but the development of the medieval syntax of her speakers. Although not overpowering with historical references, this is after all a fairytale that should be read for the plot and characters rather than for a sense of Scottish history.<br />Can this reviewer give THE TEMPTRESS a thumbs up? You bet. Although not quite as good as the first three books with the Irish setting this one is a nice conslusion to the Scottish trilogy. Fans will feel like they have come home to the highlands.ttish history.<br />Can this reviewer give THE TEMPTRESS a thumbs up? You bet. Although not quite as good as the first three books with the Irish setting this one is a nice conslusion to the Scottish trilogy. Fans will feel like they have come home to the highlands.	2001-12-17
US	50813598	R1OFSQ1E3NH7D2	0515131547	818770007	The Border Bride (Highland Fling Romance)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Remarkable Debut Author	The time-honored reiving tradition of the Scottish and English border clans takes a deadly turn when one heir is murdered and another is captured in Elizabeth English's debut historical romance, THE BORDER BRIDE. As echoes of revenge are heard from some in the Scottish Kirallen Clan, across the border in England a scheming plot to foil the tenuous peace is hatched by the Darnleys. The price of peace is to be paid by a young couple who have lived as outsiders from their respective family's fold for a long time. Through this marriage our couple must pay the price of each of their father's sins; sins sure to drive Jemmy from his family and Alyson to another she knew nothing about. For this very special couple, by agreeing to this bargain each enters a fragile game of trust and acceptance, which neither has been able to obtain in their short lives.<br />As the premier book in Jove's new historical line, &quot;A Highland Fling Romance&quot;, Ms English has created a plot of remarkable depth, rich with character angst and some interesting twists to a common theme, something often missing in these themed series from Jove.<br />What makes THE BORDER BRIDE an exceptional read is the depth of her characters; both primary and secondary. Jemmy and Alyson are characters readers will care about as she weaves them through a series of conflicts both internal and external with a surprising depth not often seen in these tales from Jove. Her deft ability to create characters with passion makes this an enjoyable read on a number of levels. Added to this, Ms English effectively offers a well crafted paranormal element, albeit minor, adding further to the reader's enjoyment of the journey through this tale of mistrust and revenge. Ms English's ability to make the reader feel the same frustration and anger Jemmy and Alyson feel and their own  feelings towards each other is not often done so well in a debut book.<br />For those readers who been complaining about the quality of historical reads of late, Elizabeth English is a rising star to be read and talked about. If THE BORDER BRIDE is an any indication of the quality of stories chosen for this new Jove series, readers are going to be devouring them like a bag full of M&amp;M's after weigh-in night at a Weight Watchers.reads of late, Elizabeth English is a rising star to be read and talked about. If THE BORDER BRIDE is an any indication of the quality of stories chosen for this new Jove series, readers are going to be devouring them like a bag full of M&amp;M's after weigh-in night at a Weight Watchers.	2001-11-12
US	50813598	R3M0QJCV9HRNF2	0515131547	818770007	The Border Bride (Highland Fling Romance)	Books	4	24	25	N	N	A Remarkable Debut Author	The time-honored reiving tradition of the Scottish and English border clans takes a deadly turn when one heir is murdered and another is captured in Elizabeth English's debut historical romance, THE BORDER BRIDE. As echoes of revenge are heard from some in the Scottish Kirallen Clan, across the border in England a scheming plot to foil the tenuous peace is hatched by the Darnleys. The price of peace is to be paid by a young couple who have lived as outsiders from their respective family's fold for a long time. Through this marriage our couple must pay the price of each of their father's sins; sins sure to drive Jemmy from his family and Alyson to another she knew nothing about. For this very special couple, by agreeing to this bargain each enters a fragile game of trust and acceptance, which neither has been able to obtain in their short lives. <br />As the premier book in Jove's new historical line, &quot;A Highland Fling Romance&quot;, Ms English has created a plot of remarkable depth, rich with character angst and some interesting twists to a common theme, something often missing in these themed series from Jove.<br />What makes THE BORDER BRIDE an exceptional read is the depth of her characters; both primary and secondary. Jemmy and Alyson are characters readers will care about as she weaves them through a series of conflicts both internal and external with a surprising depth not often seen in these tales from Jove. Her deft ability to create characters with passion makes this an enjoyable read on a number of levels. Added to this, Ms English effectively offers a well crafted paranormal element, albeit minor, adding further to the reader's enjoyment of the journey through this tale of mistrust and revenge. Ms English's ability to make the reader feel the same frustration and anger Jemmy and Alyson feel and their own  feelings towards each other is not often done so well in a debut book.<br />For those readers who been complaining about the quality of historicalreads of late, Elizabeth English is a rising star to be read and talked about. If THE BORDER BRIDE is an any indication of the quality of stories chosen for this new Jove series, readers are going to be devouring them like a bag full of M&amp;M's after weigh-in night at a Weight Watchers.	2001-11-12
US	50813598	R1XXUJU97ZHSYD	0515131547	818770007	The Border Bride (Highland Fling Romance)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Remarkable Debut Author	The time-honored reiving tradition of the Scottish and English border clans takes a deadly turn when one heir is murdered and another is captured in Elizabeth English's debut historical romance, THE BORDER BRIDE. As echoes of revenge are heard from some in the Scottish Kirallen Clan, across the border in England a scheming plot to foil the tenuous peace is hatched by the Darnleys. The price of peace is to be paid by a young couple who have lived as outsiders from their respective family's fold for a long time. Through this marriage our couple must pay the price of each of their father's sins; sins sure to drive Jemmy from his family and Alyson to another she knew nothing about. For this very special couple, by agreeing to this bargain each enters a fragile game of trust and acceptance, which neither has been able to obtain in their short lives. <br />As the premier book in Jove's new historical line, &quot;A Highland Fling Romance&quot;, Ms English has created a plot of remarkable depth, rich with character angst and some interesting twists to a common theme, something often missing in these themed series from Jove.<br />What makes THE BORDER BRIDE an exceptional read is the depth of her characters; both primary and secondary. Jemmy and Alyson are characters readers will care about as she weaves them through a series of conflicts both internal and external with a surprising depth not often seen in these tales from Jove. Her deft ability to create characters with passion makes this an enjoyable read on a number of levels. Added to this, Ms English effectively offers a well crafted paranormal element, albeit minor, adding further to the reader's enjoyment of the journey through this tale of mistrust and revenge. Ms English's ability to make the reader feel the same frustration and anger Jemmy and Alyson feel and their own  feelings towards each other is not often done so well in a debut book.<br />For those readers who been complaining about the quality of historicalreads of late, Elizabeth English is a rising star to be read and talked about. If THE BORDER BRIDE is an any indication of the quality of stories chosen for this new Jove series, readers are going to be devouring them like a bag full of M&amp;M's after weigh-in night at a Weight Watchers.	2001-11-12
US	50813598	RA3QXCAIQROVA	0804119708	300550023	Over the Edge (Troubleshooters, Book 3)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Add another Rita to this author !!	Not a fan of over the top aplha males, this book was wonderfully plotted and a very welcome surprise. Crying males are so beta male wonderful to find given the current trend in contemporary romances. With OVER THE EDGE Ms Brockman has given readers smart, sexy sensitive heroes challenged by the strength and beauty of women: there are no whiney wimps in a Brockman book: male or female.<br />Surely experienced romance readers will understand that Alyssa and Sam will find their own HEA down the road but she has created the ultimate angst for this couple. Nowhere is the reader mislead to think this is Sam and Alyssa's story, but it was nice to see them added giving the whole book a well plotted depth so lacking in other contemporary fiction.<br />What made this one so enjoyable was there were three distinct couples to enjoy, but only one could be resolved at the end. To do more would be cheating both Alyssa and Sam and Gina and Max: each deserves and will get their own story. The only downer was the sub plot of Helga, the reader will figure out her problem quickly but Brockman let that drag on too much. Might be seen by some as filler, but as this was Teri and Stan's story it was understandable and gave Stan a more human side; the ulitmate gentleman.<br />The story was gritty with language(but as a former service wife, it was well within the context of the characters,) and given the timing it might be a bit too close to reality for some because of today's headlines but it should be read by those who want to see the good guys win and win big. We all sort of need to feel that again. Given this past week it is refreshing to find that love like the mythical phoenix can rise from the ashes and triumph.<br />Brava! Suzanne Brockman is romance's Tom Clancy and romance is so much better for it!	2001-09-23
US	50813598	R32VMNCJKEZ0NL	0380814021	287069968	The Princess Diaries	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Smart Intelligent Read for Teens	Wow what a captivating book. So few books like this are out there for the in- between readers: not children but not adults either.<br />Meg Cabot has created a wonderfully rich protagonist with Mia; she is bright, witty but still a vulnerable child at heart. The dialogue was rich with angst and humor bringing to life the often horrific time called \\"the teen years\\".<br />The way the book is laid out in diary form made the book seem as if the reader is sneaking a peek at time when all Mia's life seemed to be in turmoil: her father is back with startling news, and the grandmere' from hell has come to rake havoc with Mia's life both in love and friendship.  And to top it off her mother is in bothersome love relationship with here Algebra teacher; the very same teacher who is failing Mia, but that is lost on her mother, the flighty artist. Lilly is a nice contrast both as a friend and nemesis. Michael's role in the story is an anchor that many youthful readers will identify with.<br />Unfortunately, when Hollywood got a hold of the story, it is but a sketch of the original; Californicating the original intent with silly slapstick humor and any true teen angst found in the book is sadly missing in the movie.  The movie is for preteens but the book is for teens. If you have a choice read the book and take your little preteen sibling to the movie.<br />This one will definitely find its way to the middle school library where I work. With so few truly exceptional Young Adult books out there for the 13 to 18 years, THE PRINCESS DIARIES should be in every Middle School and High School library. THIS IS DESTINED TO BE A CLASSIC!!!	2001-08-21
US	50813598	R1LLW1KWA13NPR	0821765957	72546079	Key West	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A bit Choppy in places but wonderful people to hate!!!	A terrorist kidnapping, a horrendous car wreck and the loss of a child are but of a few of the mysteries which draw a confused young woman back to her Key West home for answers in Stella Camerons paperback release of KEY WEST. With the growing number of romance authors trying their hand at romantic suspense it is clear Ms. Cameron has found her nich. In KEY WEST she offers readers an intense story set in a short period of time so fast paced, readers will wonder where the time went. The mystery of what really happened and why so many people want to control the heroines life grabs the reader innocently as it slowly reels them in, trapping them in a disturbing, and at times, hopeless reality.<br />Sonnie Giacano has had enough neglect and abuse from her husband, Frank; a has-been tennis star who is on the descending side of his career. When he demands they meet at the Miami airport she decides to get a backbone by informing him of her intention to seek a divorce. Unusual courage for her despite being pregnant with his child: a child she thought would bring them closer yet seem to repulse him . Frank Giacano is a suave low life whose waning talent on the court is only overshadowed by his excesses off the court and he intends to use Sonnies wealth to rectify his problems. Franks repulsion at her pregnancy is nothing compared to the life altering trauma awaiting her at the airport. Her world is turned upside down when she is met by Franks brother Romano with news that Frank has fallen victim of a terrorist kidnapping. Apparently her reaction to such dreadful news is to drive away at a reckless speed causing an auto accident which results in the loss of her unborn child and months of intense recuperation without a clear memory of what happened that fateful day. But what will happen to her when the memories start to come back as disturbing as they are and who will be there to protect her from her enemies or herself?<br />Armed with only the information her family has provided her about her last 8 months she returns to Key West because something just isnt right. Telling only her sister Billy where she has gone, she takes up a waitress job at one of the local watering holes. At The Nail she becomes friends with Ray Talon and his lover/partner Bo. Although she doesnt need to work, the friendship she develops with the locals helps her come to terms with her memory loss. Of course, as strange things begin to happen she questions her sanity while seeking help from Rays brother Christian, a former NYPD detective who is carrying around a whole car load of his own emotional baggage. Christian initially refuses to help but it doesnt take long for him to conclude that someone is out there trying to scare Sonnie away from the truth. With the arrival of Romano and her sister Billy, it becomes clear to Chris these people do not have Sonnies best interest at heart. But why? Will they help to answer one burning question, is she a widow or a wife? These answers plus many more must be revealed if Christian and Sonnie can have a future, but will it cost one of them their life?<br />Stella Cameron consistently provides her readers with intense stories which capture the readers attention from the very start: whether it is historicals set in Scotland or her contemporaries set in her own locale: Seattle. Is it any wonder with her unique talent at creating gritty heroes, who have a that special soft spot for vulnerable heroines, that she is able to gently lure the reader to a deep dark place filled with suspense and romance. No reader will escape the hopelessness this heroine feels as she draws on the strength of her earthy hero when they together discover whodunit and why.<br /> This is romantic suspense so intense the reader forgets the real world around them as they willingly lose themselves to a world of deception created by one Romances most gifted story tellers.amily has provided her about her last 8 months she returns to Key West because something just isnt right. Telling only her sister Billy where she has gone, she takes up a waitress job at one of the local watering holes. At The Nail she becomes friends with Ray Talon and his lover/partner Bo. Although she doesnt need to work, the friendship she develops with the locals helps her come to terms with her memory loss. Of course, as strange things begin to happen she questions her sanity while seeking help from Rays brother Christian, a former NYPD detective who is carrying around a whole car load of his own emotional baggage. Christian initially refuses to help but it doesnt take long for him to conclude that someone is out there trying to scare Sonnie away from the truth. With the arrival of Romano and her sister Billy, it becomes clear to Chris these people do not have Sonnies best interest at heart. But why? Will they help to answer one burning question, is she a widow or a wife? These answers plus many more must be revealed if Christian and Sonnie can have a future, but will it cost one of them their life? <br />Stella Cameron consistently provides her readers with intense stories which capture the readers attention from the very start: whether it is historicals set in Scotland or her contemporaries set in her own locale: Seattle. Is it any wonder with her unique talent at creating gritty heroes, who have a that special soft spot for vulnerable heroines, that she is able to gently lure the reader to a deep dark place filled with suspense and romance. No reader will escape the hopelessness this heroine feels as she draws on the strength of her earthy hero when they together discover whodunit and why. <br /> This is romantic suspense so intense the reader forgets the real world around them as they willingly lose themselves to a world of deception created by one Romances most gifted story tellers.	2001-08-08
US	50813598	R12DDVRE7FZLHL	0312272545	456636470	The Gripping Beast	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Delicious New Find!!!!	Although not a serious mystery reader I found this story to be very compelling from the first page and I eagerly look forward to a trip to the Orkneys next year. From the moment Isabel reaches Orkney she is set for a roller coaster ride of emotions and events not of her own choosing but ones she will endure to get to the bottom of the troubles. Not being able to trust anyone,like Isabel, the reader will be on the edge of their seats as she has one frightening encounter after another. The mythological elements are especially well done adding much to the story. Unlike other mysteries the tale is told with depth but there are no red herrings here to fool the reader, especially us inexperienced ones. The story moves along with well paced events, the writing is crisp with no filler to spoil the elements of surprise and the reader will care about what happens to Isabel. The characters especially Isabel and Ross are going to capture the readers attention but there are a few more such as Graham and Andrew who could have been developed more. Here is hoping that the author will return the reader to the Orkneys with more chilling tales involving this wonderful cast of characters in the very near future. A remarkable first book not to be missed by readers who love tales set in Scotland rich with mythical details.	2001-08-06
US	50813598	R1O3HNXTK77CPT	031226982X	806283860	The Last Time I Saw Paris	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Wonderful premise but made to easy  by elements of the plot	When I first started the book I enjoyed the idea of the premise: a stay at home wife devoted to her husband, his career, their children; my generation. You know the type on the cusp of a new journey in her life, as the kids are gone, and it should be time for the couple to re-emerge. When the chance arrives it is fraught with all too familiar elements for many women of my generation: a husband too involved in his own life to make room for her or better yet he has someone new to share that new life with.  Well despite this numbing event unlike most of us she has far too much money or status to be in any real danger of not making it. After all to find her self she is going on a second honeymoon trip with a new love interest and money is no worry.  I mean how many women find them selves in this position with no career skills to make it on their own let alone getting to take a trip to France to ponder and take a wonderful caring newcomer with her?  Where do I go to sign up?<br />Sure I am not naive this is fiction and given such, many of life's realities shouldn't play in it. However, it would have been nice to see this woman have a bit more to worry about than missed luggage, hotel reservations gone bad and car troubles, all easily solved with money. A little bit  more reality here would have been nice and her journey to discover the new &quot;you&quot; would have made this one more than just a good beach read .<br />Also, wouldn't it have been a bit nicer for her own character development if she had not succumbed to the same adultery her husband had. Granted who wouldn't want to go with the sexy Dan but I felt like she used him for her own end not unlike her husband; not a way to start a relationship based on trust. I was also disappointed with the ending also, the dialogue at the airport, seemed to me she didn't really learn anything new.<br />Although I will admit the scene with her husband in the Paris restaurant was a wonderful display for our protagonist, RIGHT ON!!!<br />All in all I gave the book a three because, even though it was a fun read for a lazy afternoon, I wanted more depth of character from our protagonist and a bit more real situations the reader could identify with. Dan could have been fleshed out more, reactions from her kids and her husband well he was pure stereotype, you know the kind we love to hate.<br />If money is an issue wait for the mass marked release.GHT ON!!! <br />All in all I gave the book a three because, even though it was a fun read for a lazy afternoon, I wanted more depth of character from our protagonist and a bit more real situations the reader could identify with. Dan could have been fleshed out more, reactions from her kids and her husband well he was pure stereotype, you know the kind we love to hate. <br />If money is an issue wait for the mass marked release.	2001-08-06
US	50813598	R1CE3HNLOGDF35	0373709994	905480204	The Baby Cop: Count on a Cop (Harlequin Superromance No. 999)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A well executed Plot	One of the joys of reading category romances is that the plot is executed in a small time frame. However, it can be a problem as well, because the romance has to be upfront and well defined from page one. Ms Fox is a master at making this happen with an apparent ease sure to add to the reader's journey of love's discovery.<br />In THE BABY COP, she has created what appears, at first, to be a very strong case of opposites attracting, but becomes so much more which is sure to delight readers. She uses a wonderful plot device with a police dog, mirroring her heroines' fear which created, for me, one of the most endearing moments in the book.<br />Ethan is sure to be a favorite with readers as he is a delicious blend of the strong but silent sensitive beta male but when it comes to protecting those he loves (family and children) he emerges as the avenging Alpha male. Regan on the other hand is billed as a by-the-book ball breaker bureaucrat, but the reader will soon see she really is reeling from a bad relationship gone sour. At times she is not too endearing but our hero takes care of that and the readers will cheer.<br />Sometimes category romances are viewed as a poor relation to their cousins the single title romance, however if THE BABY COP is any indication of the quality of the genre, with its wonderful rich conflict, characters you want to know in real life and heartwarming love, the reader can be assured of journey sure to touch their heart.	2001-07-26
US	50813598	R137RYGJEHNTNS	0671034480	247058950	Sizzle All Day (Sonnet Books)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A Fun Romp from the Mistress of Romantic Humor	As a fan of the romance mass market industry one the reasons it is so popular is the vast variety in sub-genres; there is something for everyone and almost every month. As both reader and reviewer I enjoy mostly Historicals set in Scotland or with a Scottish hero/heroine. However, not a great fan of Americana historical books, I especially shy away from any book with a Texas setting or hero; over the top seems to be the accepted norm. Well you can imagine my delight/dismay to find both in Geralyn Dawson's exceptional new romp, SIZZLE ALL DAY. Never one to back away from a challenge I plunged into this sequel to SIMMER ALL NIGHT and I am so very glad I did.<br />Jake Delaney wants his own life. His sister is married to his best friend and when he has found one of the few remaining copies of the Texas Declaration of Independence, his life will at last be his own. He wants to travel and experience all the world has to offer a carefree single man. His mother's trip to England, her place of birth, has afforded him the opportunity to do just this when it is rumored a copy of this document is to be found in Scotland. Escaping to Scotland has an added benefit: a chance to escape his mother's constant attempt at matchmaking. His only companion in the wilds of Scotland is the wee pup affectionately named, Scooter, who has lost the use of it's hind legs.<br />Gillian Ross and her family at Rowanclere Castle in Scotland are struggling to find a way out of their financial woes. It is Gillian's responsibility now that her one love affair has gone sour, her twin sister is married and very pregnant, a younger sister and an aging uncle depend on her for care. Much to her regret it seems only sensible to sell the castle, the only stable home since her parents death. The problem is the only one perspective buyer desires the castle but only if comes with it's own resident ghost. Much to her dismay it seems theirs is surely the only one in Scotland that doesn't have one. So what is lass to do: create one with results sure to have the reader in stitches.<br />Jake arrives at Rowanclere Castle under the false pretense of doing research. Through this research he plans to get the document and be on his way. However, his arrival seems the perfect opportunity for Gillian to set her ghostly plan into motion. As luck would have it, certainly the special kind of luck brilliantly created by Ms Dawson, both Jake and Gillian have the tables turned on them with delightfully humorous and intensely sensual results. But all these antics take on a curious twist when Jake's mother turns up at the castle as the special friend of the expected buyer. Each is disturbed by the outcome of this arrival with results that will test them to the limit much to the delight of the reader.<br />There will be much laughter for the reader in this tale but even more poignant scenes sure to bring on the reader's tears, so have the tissues ready. What works so well for this delightful romp is the strong sense of duty both Jake and Gillian have to others at the risk of their own desires. This is made possible by the excellent care with which Ms Dawson has researched and developed the plot: she blends the brashness of a Texan with the age old steadfast stubbornness of a Scottish lass effortlessly. Add this to the incredibly sensual stirrings each feels for the other as they struggle to find a way to have what is their heart's desire. One can only wonder what their offspring might be like.<br />As this very special journey moves toward its climax one gets a strong yet unexpected sense of a \\"Gift of the Magi\\" scenario unfolding as Gillian and Jake each tries to give the other their heart's desire even when it means their own will be devastated by the loss. Ms Dawson, a seasoned storyteller, knows readers expect a \\"happily ever after\\", but she makes both her couple and ultimately the reader work for it. Being in touch with reader's expectations is what sets a Geralyn Dawson romance apart.Ultimately because of these unique talents, she is able to provide a tale so overwhelmingly special it will be found on many of this year's \\"best of \\" lists.<br />SIZZLE ALL DAY is sure to charm readers as the mists of the Scotland are bewitchingly pierced by the twang of a most seductive Texan. However, run don't walk to your book seller because SIZZLE ALL DAY along with SIMMER ALL NIGHT are sure to fly off the shelves and you don't want to be left without your copy when the dust clears.<br />Jody Allen, Romancing the Celtic Soulart. Ultimately because of these unique talents, she is able to provide a tale so overwhelmingly special it will be found on many of this year's \\"best of \\" lists. <br />SIZZLE ALL DAY is sure to charm readers as the mists of the Scotland are bewitchingly pierced by the twang of a most seductive Texan. However, run don't walk to your book seller because SIZZLE ALL DAY along with SIMMER ALL NIGHT are sure to fly off the shelves and you don't want to be left without your copy when the dust clears. <br />Jody Allen, Romancing the Celtic Soul	2001-07-22
US	50813598	R5F9S43NSWCI6	0451409892	947961599	Phantom Waltz	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A 6 Star story on 5 Star scale	I found this story to be one of the best I have read in along time. Although it helped Ryan was wealthy( this is fiction after all), what he really gave her was unconditional love and acceptance.  I found the couple to be endearing, and the story deliciously romantic.  What Ryan gave Bethany was far more than money could buy. The added characters of Sly, T-Bone and Tripper were a delight.  As was the scene in the bar.<br />Ms Anderson's writing is fresh and not cluttered with information the reader doesn't need.  For me this one is destined to be the book of 2001 because it takes romance fiction to a new higher level.	2001-07-17
US	50813598	R1VJW6ZYSAAE5S	0821768719	637685180	To Tame a Duke	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A fun romp with a Sassy heroine!!!	As a fan of Ms Grasso's work I found this new one, to be a classic bitingly funny Grasso romp, one I just couldn't put down. If you are a fan of the Bard, you will want to read this one, as they quote Shakespeare throughout, at the funniest of times.<br />Our heroine is a Wharf Rat from Boston who makes a death bed promise to raise and protect her baby brother. Her brother from birth is slow to develop mentally but he steals many of the scenes and is one character who adds special moments to the story<br />Seems Lily has a special gift that is needed for the American war effort of 1812. She has a photographic memory and turns to spying  for the American cause. Her brother and fiance enlist her and thru these deeds she earns the nickname the GILDED LILY. When they leave on a special mission, she and Michael meet their future head on.<br />James Armstrong, becomes the Duke of Kinross on the death of his brother in America. Seems his brother was hung and the implication is his death is the result of the work of the Gilded Lily. Seeking a way to escape his impending betrothal with one of London's spoiled females he takes the opportunity to leave her in the lurch as he travels to America to seek revenge on this Gilded Lily. He is after all in mourning, as he escapes the matrimonial noose.<br />He quickly captures Lily and her brother Michael thinking she is a he and transports them both to England for revenge. A revenge that is sensually seductive when he finds she is a female. But as luck would have it, the kind of revenge he seeks may be his own downfall when he loses his heart to Lily. Yet they both may lose than their hearts as a killer stalks them.<br />The theme of the story itself is nothing new, but there is a mystery as who did kill James's brother that will keep the reading racing to the final pages. But what makes this a five star read is Grasso's signature &quot;witty banter&quot; between James and Lily. You can always count on great one-liners in a Patricia Grasso book. Lily is just the type of sassy heroine, with great one liners we have come to expect from Patricia Grasso. It is a laugh out loud book to be enjoyed in one sitting.<br />Readers will delight as well in how Michael is portrayed in this book, he is not to be pitied, and he despite his impediment could have his own story very easily. With his innocent actions he is reminisent of some of the beloved quirky secondary characters in her past books.<br />This a must read for her fans and those who want a story where love triumphs over two stubbornly realistic characters.  Historical romance at its best!!!ia Grasso book. Lily is just the type of sassy heroine, with great one liners we have come to expect from Patricia Grasso. It is a laugh out loud book to be enjoyed in one sitting.<br />Readers will delight as well in how Michael is portrayed in this book, he is not to be pitied, and he despite his impediment could have his own story very easily. With his innocent actions he is reminisent of some of the beloved quirky secondary characters in her past books. <br />This a must read for her fans and those who want a story where love triumphs over two stubbornly realistic characters.  Historical romance at its best!!!	2001-07-15
US	50813598	R1HQZ5ZUI8KM5Q	038531826X	871007221	The Border Hostage	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	A wonderful Sequel to TEMPTED	We first met the Kennedy's in TEMPTED when Flaming Tina Kennedy stole the heart of Ramsey &quot;Black&quot; Douglas set to the brackdrop of the Border turmoils of 17th century Scotland before the Battle of Flodden.  Tina's half gypsy brother Heath plays an important role in helping his sister find her heart desire and was deserving of his own story.Well... in THE BORDER HOSTAGE, Ms Henley doesn't disappoint.<br />Heath is living with his sister and her husband some months after the horrendous battle at Flodden which about distroyed all of the &quot;Flowers of Scotland&quot;. Heath ignored by the rest of Kennedy Clan as their father's by blow,  has found his place with the Douglas clan as a horse trainer. Thru his Celtic gift of magic he senses his sister, who is swollen with child, is in dangers and he rushes to her tower room. Here he is captured by border reivers who mistake him for his brother in law Ramsey&quot; Black Ram&quot; Douglas,and in true hero fashion he willing is captured to keep both Tina and Ram safe.<br />Across the border in England, Raven Carleton has found her own unigue niche, she trains  raptors, much to her mother's dismay. Seems mother sees titles/money/status in her daughter's future and will do everything to  rise above her own meeker border beginnings. Including linking with a border family's who job is to secure peace on the Enlglish side of the Borders. But Raven wants to be left alone to make her own choices both in how she will act and who she will choose for a husband, despite her interest in local &quot;catch&quot; Chris Dacre. Yet, she has a magical link to her Celtic heritage when she is inducted into the CRAFT by her grandmother.  When the couple first meet, it seems in a case of mistaken identity again as Heath has been taken across the border and left for dead. Yet, he survives and finds himself at the mercy of Raven who calls him a filthy Scots bastard. Yet in true Scots Revier fashion he gets her out her clothes only to take her shirt(one of her brothers she wasn't supposed to have on) and wears it to escape. leaving her virtue intact and her being in outrage. Thru this first encounter they share an inkling of a shared magical link, but both are too concerned with their own problems to delve into what the magic might hold for them.<br />In Heath's determination to find out who wants Black Douglas dead, he meets with Raven head on as they clash over border disputes. Yet, thru this  Celtic magical bond our couple to begin a journey of love and self discovery:  a highly charged senual link as only Ms Henley can provide.<br />What makes this such a fun read is the hero is a man of courage, honor and pride. To compliment him Ms Henley has given him a heroine who like the hero is searching for self and when she must, she listens to her heart despite what others expect of her: another Flaming Tina who can't obey when her man is in touble.<br />Readers who have read TEMPTED will enjoy meeting up with the Kennedy Clan, as they too must share a journey of discovery, forgiveness and acceptance, but this clearly Heath Kennedy's story. Although each book stands alone, if the reader hasn't read TEMPTED, buy it now along with THE BORDER HOSTAGE, you won't be disappointed. It was a delight for this reader to see Ms Henley return to her classic historical romances. The pace is measured and the story is exceptional with loves discovery at the forefront and history in the background giving it depth, until the final page,<br />Here is hoping we readers get Duncan's story in the near future. THE BORDER HOSTAGE is worth the hardcover price and is classic historical romance.take her shirt(one of her brothers she wasn't supposed to have on) and wears it to escape. leaving her virtue intact and her being in outrage. Thru this first encounter they share an inkling of a shared magical link, but both are too concerned with their own problems to delve into what the magic might hold for them. <br />In Heath's determination to find out who wants Black Douglas dead, he meets with Raven head on as they clash over border disputes. Yet, thru this  Celtic magical bond our couple to begin a journey of love and self discovery:  a highly charged senual link as only Ms Henley can provide.<br />What makes this such a fun read is the hero is a man of courage, honor and pride. To compliment him Ms Henley has given him a heroine who like the hero is searching for self and when she must, she listens to her heart despite what others expect of her: another Flaming Tina who can't obey when her man is in touble. <br />Readers who have read TEMPTED will enjoy meeting up with the Kennedy Clan, as they too must share a journey of discovery, forgiveness and acceptance, but this clearly Heath Kennedy's story. Although each book stands alone, if the reader hasn't read TEMPTED, buy it now along with THE BORDER HOSTAGE, you won't be disappointed. It was a delight for this reader to see Ms Henley return to her classic historical romances. The pace is measured and the story is exceptional with loves discovery at the forefront and history in the background giving it depth, until the final page,<br />Here is hoping we readers get Duncan's story in the near future. THE BORDER HOSTAGE is worth the hardcover price and is classic historical romance.	2001-07-09
US	50813598	R30238OG5O6TUH	1576737535	244296406	The Truth Seeker (O'Malley #3)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Lisa and Quinn...Yummy !	Let's face it romance has spawned many intersting families but none so special as the O'Malleys.  Readers  first met Dave in DANGERS IN THE SHADOWS, then again in NEGOGIATOR when he met his very own O'Malley  and the family was born. Readers have enjoyed the journey of discovery thru each of the O'Malley stories and with Lisa's story we are sure to have at least three more. But then there are their kids &lt;g&gt;.<br />THE TRUTH SEEKER is an example of an authors growth, as she creates a story full of suspense but never losing site of the romance of her couple and the link to all the books, their sister with Cancer. Here we have Lisa and Quinn who we meet in THE GUARDIAN, where the sprarks first flew, but nothing like their own story. This one is full of suspense as our couple find their own connection with their spirituality and their love for each other, despite the evil that engulfs them.  Also the whole family is there as well so it it like visiting good friends.<br />What makes Dee Henderson's books unique is although they are Christian based in their concept and delivery they are not preachy.  They will appeal to both Christians and non Christians who want classic romantic suspense. But if it is Inspirational Romances you are looking for, then DEE HENDERSON's books are classic Inspirational Romances. You can't call your self a romance reader if you haven't at least one Henderson book on your keeper shelf.	2001-07-09
US	50813598	R1YJ082KA0E472	0373834675	16151770	Shadows / Daddy in Demand	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Finally Dori's Story ( Jensen)	Having enjoyed the Mckeon Brothers stories so much, I was excited to find this anthology of sorts. Finally we get to find out if Sal and Dori ever make it happen. But the story has a few interseting twists and some angst. that at times seemed to be a bit over done.<br />Dori finds she must come to terms with who and what she is to make a new start. Part of the plan includes divorcing her husband who left her at the alter, for another woman.  But now two years later the problems keep mounting when she needs his help when she finds a baby in her back seat with a note  saying the bio mothers no longer can care for him, oh yeah the baby come with $11,572 as well. Although both Sal and Dori join together to take care of Max, will it be enough to bring them together and keep them that way?<br />Not a fan of overbearing Latin men, I was especially pleased to find I really liked Sal. A great hero for our Dori if only she would quit whinning, but in true Mckeon fashion she rises to the occasion leaving the reader satisfied as well as the entire Mckeon clan.<br />For those who have read the other McKeon brothers books this is a must read, allyour favorites are back. And you get a backlist Stella Cameron story in the bargain, for the price of a single title. Not bad and a great read!!	2001-05-29
US	50813598	R19L5DSXBSV1K8	0515130435	475135941	Irish Hope (Irish Eyes Romance)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A Fun Romp to this Series	This second book by Donna Fletcher for Jove's IRISH EYES line is a fun book and cut above most of the offerings in this somewhat disappointing line( only the Fletcher and Hendrix titles are worth bothering with). The line began with Ms Fletcher's IRISH DEVIL, which despite lacking any real Irish historical depth to the story line, was still a wonderfully  plotted medieval and well worth reading. This one is a spinoff of that story and is equally well developed with a fun romp with new and old friends to meet. This tale will hold the reader to the very last pages as the story unfolds using the main characters in the first book to enrich the story of Colin and Hope. The sensual level in this book is exceptional and well within the scope of the story, ie not filler.  One can only hope now that we have had both Faith, and Hope, could Charity be the woman for the newly introduced Rath!! Here's hoping that Ms Fletcher will give this poor line of books another shot in the arm with the final book in the Devil Series.	2001-05-28
US	50813598	R119P9NCZB2JFB	0743418166	780559593	Good in Bed	Books	5	8	10	N	N	About Time  A Woman Who Is Real!	Fantastic read from this first time author. The book was like an old comfortable friend who one could curl up with and share all the pain and happiness. I didn't want it to end but the when it did I felt satisfied the author didn't succumb to making the protagnoist gain her fulfillment thru weight loss.  Three cheers,finally a heroine for the Queen sized women, who was witty, bright and on a journey of self discovery and deserving of love.  So when is the sequel?	2001-05-26
US	50813598	R3GBTPK31C8PM7	0671034588	361342714	Spellbound	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Where is the Baker Voice We Love?	Having read all of her books, especially her early work, I was disappointed with this offering. There was nothing wrong with the writing, which is always crisp and to the point. But for me the story line was ho hum. I didn't care for the heroine at all, she seemed too bland.  And the story seemed too morose to me, not too uplifting as it moved to the final pages. Certainly her past books are not happy go lucky stories, but they are at least rich in Irish detail, and this one seems to have far too many lifeless characters, except the children.  Will I stop buying her books? NEVER. Although I appplaud authors who step outside of their traditional story lines, I would love to see a return to her paranormals, they are a classics and the very best in Irish Romances.  I don't say don't buy it,but be aware this is a different voice for Jeanette Baker, not one I liked very much.	2001-05-26
US	50813598	R2Y09U97YBV8LF	0440235227	407450033	Midnight Honor	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Historical fiction at it's Best!!	I first saw a portrait of Anne Mackintosh in a museum in Scotland and was intrigued by her story, which is much more heroic than say Flora MacDonald. Having found only a few references in history to these Macintoshes of Moy ( those being PRINCE CHARLIE AND HIS LADIES/Compton Mackenzie and DAMN REBEL BITCHES: Women of the '45 by Maggie Craig)I was a bit apprehensive of a fictional account of this woman and her husband, who history reports was a love match. But I was delightfully surprised at Ms Canham's story.<br />I found this story wonderfully told with all the angst that should be there given times and this couples love for each other despite their different causes. Although, this was a fictional account and details of their lives were left out, she told the story with the unique rich detail that only an author of her caliber can write. The history never became the story but with actual participants of the period you can't tell it without historical details the likes found here. I do have to wonder why some would say there was too much history, adding only: Why then are you reading historicals romances in the first place? Historical writers pride themselves on getting it right so you can't leave history out for this story nor can you change real history unless you tell the reader why. Anne and Angus were products of their time, thus varied elements of the time needed to be shown and she did it very well.<br />Although I will agree this story reads more like exceptional historical fiction, the likes of Penman et al,rather than some of the current bland historicals offered. Yet, in my mind the wonderful sexual tension developed between both John/Anne and Angus/Anne was incredible. And although we don't know historically if there was ever anything between John and Anne, the reader will be statisfied with Ms Canham's version.<br />The ending also falls well within the realm of exceptional romance, with the kind of ending sure to leave the request sigh. As one who has researched Anne Macintosh of Moy for 7 years I found MIDNIGHT HONOR a wonderful interpretation of &quot;what if.&quot; I don't think the reader can ask for more: great romance, sexual tension, a couple of heroes to die for and heroine who found the real meaning of love. Isn't this why we read romance?as researched Anne Macintosh of Moy for 7 years I found MIDNIGHT HONOR a wonderful interpretation of &quot;what if.&quot; I don't think the reader can ask for more: great romance, sexual tension, a couple of heroes to die for and heroine who found the real meaning of love. Isn't this why we read romance?	2001-05-26
US	50813598	R5CXHQ9P6E8FB	1575667134	173884835	Finding Ian (Zebra Contemporary Romance)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Nice Departure from her normal work	Readers have come to expect a certain well developed voice from Stella Cameron, whether she is writing her best selling romantic suspense thrillers or her well loved historicals.  Yet, with FINDING IAN she provides readers with a truly unique new voice which will have readers clamoring for more.  From  the misty bay of San Francisco to the wind swept moors of Cornwall, a father searches for the son he gave up at a time of great personal loss.  This search  will take him to a sleepy village where, before he can be reunited with his son, he must come to terms with ghosts of his past.  To accomplish  this he must open his heart to a young woman who has as much to lose as she has to gain.  With FINDING IAN  Ms Cameron has created a fascinating new voice so very different from her current romantic suspense bestseller. This one is  rich in emotional depth as the reader is taken on an emotional  journey towards love's discovery: father to child, child to family and espically man to woman. Readers may find themselves not liking  Byron or Jade's actions at times throughout the story but will have to admit Ms Cameron has captured every nuisance realistically  and within the context of the story.  FINDING IAN is a wonderful example of an author not caught in a rut, one who is willing to step outside of her norm and offer readers a breath of fresh air. With this talent it is no wonder Stella Cameron is one of Romances reigning icons, who readers have come to associate with the very best the genre has to offer.	2001-05-14
US	50813598	R3UMVCQ501R4TI	1576736423	399001011	The Guardian (The O'Malley Series #2)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The O&quot;Malley's just get better and better	Danger and intrigue are no strangers to the O'Malley family but when they fall in love they fall hard with complications sure to touch their spiritual soul.  First it was Kate, now Marcus, the patriarch of this rag tag family of orphans, has his hands full not only keeping his witness alive but his heart from breaking because God's love has forsaken him.  A 2000 Rita winner for her DANGERS IN THE SHADOW, author Dee Henderson returns for the second installment in her O'Malley series with Marcus's story, THE GUARDIAN and oh my what an installment it is!!<br />Dee Henderson's  THE GUARDIAN is a must read for those who crave a tale full of incredible intrigue, &quot;on the edge of your seat&quot; adventure with a hero and heroine  cloaked in God's love  as they  learn to trust in God and each other.  The O'Malley's are one of Romance's  most incredible families and should not be missed by serious romance readers. Ms Henderson takes the Inspirational sub genre to new heights as her body of work is the &quot;classic standard&quot; by which both new and seasoned authors should set their sights.	2001-05-14
US	50813598	R37JZL4P7C8AJ0	0671785915	399661757	Voices Carry	Books	4	0	0	N	N	4 1/2 Read from a 5 Star Author	On the heels of THE BROWNED EYED GIRL, this new book by Ms Stewart was much anticipated and she didn't disappoint. The suspense was richly developed and believable. The story at times was alarmingly evil but then Ms Stewart is a master of evil suspense. The only draw back was a bit too much time was spent on back story for our couple, bogging the story down at times and it really wasn't needed ( hence no five star rating).<br />It is hoped Ms Stewart will continue to develop stories rich with strong heroines and supportive heroes: be they contemporary love stories or her current trend toward evil suspense. Having been a fan of her earlier work, it is hoped she will continue to help set the standard in Romantic Suspense: few have her touch in developing heart stopping evil intent. You can't go wrong with any books by Ms Stewart. She deserves her growing body of fans!	2001-05-14
US	50813598	RII45QRHRMFX	0821768301	874274000	The Irish Enchantress (Irish Trilogy)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	A Wonderful Irish tale.	Cursed land, a banished witch, a bit of magic and a skeptical English Knight make for an  appealing new tale from a familiar voice in THE IRISH ENCHANTRESS.  Amy J Fetzer first introduced Fionna O'Donnel in her richly  fascinating drama THE IRISH PRINCESS. Fionna banned from her family for a decade is nearing the end of her banishment but now her past clashes with her future as she claims not only her daughter, her people but is offered the chance for an incredible love, with magic of a most extraordinary kind.<br />Ms Fetzer has a an engrossing tale here made even more delightful with the appearance of  two youthful secondary characters who add much to this sometimes dark tale: Connal and Sinead. Each adds special elements sure to delight the reader helping to enrich the story, certainly readers will demand their story in the future. I sure expect to learn more of this delightful couple in the future.  Add to this some very special and often unexpected evil that can only be rendered impotent by Fionna' magic  and the reader will not want to turn the last page.<br />Although not all is perfect in the telling of this tale.  I would be remise if I didn't warn the reader they may find at times, especially in the beginning, that something is missing: a back story implied but not known which may cause  reader confusion.. Because of this I would highly recommend reading THE IRISH PRINCESS first.  Each book in a series can and should stand alone and in all fairness THE IRISH ENCHANTRESS does for the most part stand alone. Yet,  reading both books  will allow the reader to fully enjoy the unique magic found in  Ms Fetzer's medieval Ireland.<br />Amy J. Fetzer has created a wonderfully rich and distinctive addition to a body of work  reflective of  what is especially good with historical romantic fiction. Whether the reader likes the location or the time period, THE IRISH ENCHANTRESS is sure to be a favorite amongst her growing fans and those new to her work.	2001-05-14
US	50813598	R16W85P4B9QXR1	080411966X	437911979	After Twilight	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Wonderful rich suspense!!	Amidst a violent storm a dubious marriage ends in a bizarre accident.  Yet, when the young widow should be planning  to start over, she is forced to run from her past. Must she travel alone or are there those she can trust?  Dee Davis's AFTER TWILIGHT is a delicious tale of romantic suspense seasoned with zesty twists and turns sure to satisfy the reading palate of  romance readers especially those new to romantic suspense.<br />Artist, Kacey Macgrath finds a shaky sense of peace in her grandmother's cottage in County Claire, Ireland as she hides from her husband`s creditors and her guilt.  Kacey, a widow with a questionable past, has a unique artistic gift which the disreputable  Enrico Gienelli wants to employ. As tempting as his offer may be, she also meets the handsome Breadon Roche, who seems to touch a part of her that has lain dormant since her husband`s untimely death. Is now the time to trust the two vastly different men who enter her life?<br />Breadon Roche, is not all he seems to be. He has finally found the widow of Alex Madison who he believes has defrauded his galleries. That she even knows Gienelli makes her innocence suspect.  Yet, when he meets Kacey, can this skitterish  woman really be part of the scheme perpetuated by her dead husband?  With her unique artistic gift it seems likely, but as his attraction for her grows, he is torn between what he knows has happened and who may be responsible. But when some disturbing incidents happen to Kacey, can our charming  hero separate his  protective feelings for her and protect his company as well?<br />As AFTER TWILIGHT begins there seems to be too many characters introduced all at once and the story gets bogged down a wee bit keeping everyone straight.  Yet, readers should persevere, because the suspense is first class storytelling as Braedon and Kacey race toward an exceptionally satisfying conclusion. Set in Ireland, this one should be read for the plot and not the location. However, Ms Davis has expertly nailed the Irish syntax of her Irish characters, showing a unique flair that echoes that of  JoAnn Ross, the queen of Irish dialogue.<br />As more established authors have joined the Romantic Suspense band wagon in recent years,  few authors have Ms. Davis's natural flair at providing readers with a tale sure to keep them on the edge of their seats. Although the ending may be predictable, it is the journey that makes this second book by one of Romances' Rising Stars an exceptional  read. Once the reader starts AFTER TWILIGHT they better put their life on hold as they won't be able to put this one down: the suspense exceptional and the romance memorable.expertly nailed the Irish syntax of her Irish characters, showing a unique flair that echoes that of  JoAnn Ross, the queen of Irish dialogue.<br />As more established authors have joined the Romantic Suspense band wagon in recent years,  few authors have Ms. Davis's natural flair at providing readers with a tale sure to keep them on the edge of their seats. Although the ending may be predictable, it is the journey that makes this second book by one of Romances' Rising Stars an exceptional  read. Once the reader starts AFTER TWILIGHT they better put their life on hold as they won't be able to put this one down: the suspense exceptional and the romance memorable.	2001-05-14
US	50813598	RZM0UDVVI97UI	0373291493	990503138	Ice Maiden	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A New Voice from Harlequin Historicals	It is often said in the Romance Industry it is much harder to sell the second book than the first. However, for Debra Lee Brown this doesn't seem to be the case and readers should be thankful. On the heels of her debut book,THE VIRGIN SPRING, her latest ICE MAIDEN, is a wonderful example of the quality stories readers have come to enjoy from Harlequin Historicals. The ICE MAIDEN takes the reader on a journey to the northern islands of Scotland, home to the Norse culture as it traded and clashed with the Caledonians on the Scottish mainland.<br />George Grant, cheiftan of Clan Grant, is traveling north with his brother on a mission to meet with his betrothed and her father a fellow chieftan. However, the seas being rough during this season, his ship encounters a horrible storm and is wrecked on the rocks of an island. Overcome from guilt at the lost of not only his entire crew but especially his brother, he finds he is the lone survivor, or has he survived?<br />Seems he has awoken in what he believes to be the Norse Valhalla, but is confronted by a woman like no other he has encounter in his journeys. Yet, when he learns of her outlandish demands, he finds he actually might have preferred Valhalla. Her demand he marry her if he ever wants to see home again seems to be a bit over the top. Yet, time is of the essence as he must meet with his betrothed at the commands of his king. So he agrees if reluctantly.  Rika, is an incredible young woman who having been abused by her betrothed, who has since gone a-Viking, seizes on George arrival as a means to an end. But that can only happen if she is able to aquire her dowry from her neglectful father, but only upon her marriage. Although George is appalled by her desperate desire for her dowry, only the Lawmaker and a few of her brother's loyal friends know the dowry is to be used to free her brother from his captor. As honorable as George if only Rika could learn to trust again she might obtain her brother's freedom and her heart's desire.<br />What seems a simple marriage in name only, quickly becomes much more as George and Rika try to balance their growing feelings for each other with their obligations to others.  But George's future lies with his betrothed on the mainland, and Rika's future lies in rescuing her brother. But will it be enough for both when all is said and done? Added to this, Ms Browne's wonderful use of secondary characters create undercurrents and mysteries sure to make the trials of our couple even more compelling. The reader won't be disappointed as our couple arrive on the mainland of Scotland to an exciting adventure and a future which seems just out of their reach.<br />One of the current criticism of short historicals, when compared to single title historicals, is they are too light and lack any significant depth for the historical period. Yet, like fellow Harlequin Historical authors Shari Anton, Margaret Moore and the late Suzanne Barclay, Ms. Brown's skills lie in telling a tale rich in historical detail with characters, primary and secondary, whose problems and resolutions are important to the reader. Ms Brown's ICE MAIDEN is a fine addition to her growing body of work, and we hope Harlequin will continue to provide her an avenue to delight and entertain their readersd her heart's desire. <br />What seems a simple marriage in name only, quickly becomes much more as George and Rika try to balance their growing feelings for each other with their obligations to others.  But George's future lies with his betrothed on the mainland, and Rika's future lies in rescuing her brother. But will it be enough for both when all is said and done? Added to this, Ms Browne's wonderful use of secondary characters create undercurrents and mysteries sure to make the trials of our couple even more compelling. The reader won't be disappointed as our couple arrive on the mainland of Scotland to an exciting adventure and a future which seems just out of their reach.<br />One of the current criticism of short historicals, when compared to single title historicals, is they are too light and lack any significant depth for the historical period. Yet, like fellow Harlequin Historical authors Shari Anton, Margaret Moore and the late Suzanne Barclay, Ms. Brown's skills lie in telling a tale rich in historical detail with characters, primary and secondary, whose problems and resolutions are important to the reader. Ms Brown's ICE MAIDEN is a fine addition to her growing body of work, and we hope Harlequin will continue to provide her an avenue to delight and entertain their readers	2001-05-14
US	50813598	RNBHQ94U33LXL	0373271484	945597834	In Close Quarters	Books	5	2	2	N	N	STEAMY HOT!!! new Sequel to FOR HIS EYES ONLY	When the reader got a taste of both Karin and TJ in FOR HIS EYES ONLY, who would have thougth Ms Irvin would give this unlikely pair such a hot melting love story IN CLOSE QUARTERS. From page one the reader is taken on a delicious sensual journey, but with incredible tight writing the journey takes but a matter of days. But OH!! the days, Ms Irvin has pulled out all the stops on sexual tension, after this one, a trip in a whirlpool will never be the same. Add to this the incredibly scrumptous model on the cover, and this will be one hero not easily forgotten by the reader. As the mystery unfolds there are as many surprises for our couple, as the reader. Both sexual and story tensions are there to the final pages with a few nice but unexpected twists. Our couple clinging to hurts in their past will make it hard for to let go but for each other they find the answers, but hopefully not to late for one of them.<br />With two wonderful military books under her belt it is hoped that Ms Irvin is given the chance by a single title publisher , to stretch her wings with a full length offering. She has joined the Ranks at the Top:Susanne Brockman and Lindsay McKenna, in providing the very best in military romances.	2001-05-08
US	50813598	R2RUIRGKDJ9FB1	1840182989	181533930	Damn Rebel Bitches	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Wonderful edition to Scottish Women's History	I found this book to be one of the great finds in recent years. Scottish women, be they common or noble, have always had a unique place in Scottish History. Unfortunately their story is often missing from the pages of Scottish history annals.  Ms Criag has provided readers with a unique glimpse into the romantic period of the second Jacobite uprising from the women's point of view. The women were remarkably loyal to a man and cause doomed from the start. This is a must read if you want an historical approach that is scholarly in its content but entertaining in its delivery.  This one should be in all Scottish historians' keeper shelves.	2001-03-10
US	50813598	R3Q3Y6QHVW60RU	1576736202	417054289	True Devotion (Uncommon Heroes, Book 1)	Books	5	38	41	N	Y	Move Over Brockman	There is just something about a man in uniform which has romance readers' hearts all a tweeter especially if the uniform is that of a Navy SEAL.  One need only look at the highly successful SEAL books by Suzanne Brockman to know what branch of the military service is the reader's favorite. Well move over Susanne Brockman, there is a new kid on the block who has created a truly stunning tale of love and devotion to God, Country and to those left behind when the missions are done. TRUE DEVOTION is the remarkably poignant story of a Navy SEAL widow and the man whose love for her is tied to her husband's death.  Multnomah author, Dee Henderson, who has captivated romantic suspense readers with DANGER IN THE SHADOWS and THE NEGOGIATOR, has crafted a tale of love and devotion sure to fascinate the most cynical reader.<br />Navy widow and lifeguard, Kelly Jacobs has found herself in tight spots before but nothing like this. Relying on survival skills her deceased husband taught her may not be enough to save her and the young surfer as they are caught in a rip tide being drawn out to sea.  As the biting cold of the water is taking its toll and darkness sets in Kelly races to keep her young charge alive and her strength up but her spirit takes the biggest toll.  With the knowledge Navy SEALs take care of their own including widows, her only hope is they will be found soon by the Navy or Coast Guard.  Yet, as the tide pushes them further away from the few lights still visible from the base, her thoughts drift to her husband's best friend, Navy SEAL Lt. Joe &quot;Bear&quot; Baker. As her faith and spirit are tested to the limit it seems she has some unfinished business about her husband's death and her growing feelings for &quot;Bear&quot; Baker. Will he find her in time to explore them or is it her time to join her husband?<br />In TRUE DEVOTION, Ms. Henderson has provided readers with a uniquely plotted story using the &quot;second chance at love&quot; theme; a theme sadly lacking in today's romance offerings. The fact Dee Henderson  does it with a crisp professional voice makes TRUE DEVOTION a must read even if you have never read an Inspirational book. Readers are sure to become loyal fans of Ms Henderson's work after reading the first chapter of Kelly's intense personal introspection: truly incredible writing sure to make the reader's heart ache at the intensity of her feelings. Have the tissues ready!. Her impressive knowledge of the workings of Navy SEALS never takes over the story but then she never lets the spirituality of her books become preachy either. This is what makes a Dee Henderson novel something very special.  If you are a fan of Navy SEAL stories, you must read TRUE DEVOTION, a story with depth and emotion far surpassing the best of Suzanne Brockman's Navy SEALs. Dee Henderson is truly one of Romance's rising stars.lacking in today's romance offerings. The fact Dee Henderson  does it with a crisp professional voice makes TRUE DEVOTION a must read even if you have never read an Inspirational book. Readers are sure to become loyal fans of Ms Henderson's work after reading the first chapter of Kelly's intense personal introspection: truly incredible writing sure to make the reader's heart ache at the intensity of her feelings. Have the tissues ready!. Her impressive knowledge of the workings of Navy SEALS never takes over the story but then she never lets the spirituality of her books become preachy either. This is what makes a Dee Henderson novel something very special.  If you are a fan of Navy SEAL stories, you must read TRUE DEVOTION, a story with depth and emotion far surpassing the best of Suzanne Brockman's Navy SEALs. Dee Henderson is truly one of Romance's rising stars.	2000-12-01
US	50813598	R1M7KXXLOTEHUB	076422218X	664662238	An Ancient Strife (Caledonia Series, Book 2)	Books	4	21	22	N	Y	The Saga Continues	Michael Phillips has provided readers with a wonderful continuation to his first book THE LEGEND OF THE CELTIC STONE. Yes all the elements are there, the rich history both past and present, the same characters and a continuation of the mysterious journey our protagonist is making. However,there are some interesting suprises for the readers of the first book with a twist in the contemporary story with the introduction of some new characters and a sub plot with one character in particular.<br />However, the story is as compelling as the first as our hero continues his journey toward understanding his Scottish past and what importance it has for his future. The back stories featuring Scottish history are wonderfully crafted and will delight the reader but might not have as much importance to the contemporary plot as the first book, still all in all good reading.  For those who haven't read the first book, this one really can't stand alone as there is a need to know much of the background and the impact of the story will be lost. However, I would highly recommend both books for the reader who wants a lush historical journey but needs the anchor of a contemporary story right from today's headlines.  These two books will appeal not only to the historical reader but those who like a bit of romance as well and of course as this is book is from a Christian publisher there are elements of strong faith but they never overpower the story.  A wonderfully delicious addition to a body of work that has much to offer the discerning reader.	2000-12-01
US	50813598	R1KTRDS6BCWGM6	1576736083	224811550	Negotiator	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Incredible Intense Drama	What is a family? For the O'Malleys it has nothing to do with blood, who as orphans decide to become a family. Each one has a unique talent that serves mankind but their loyalty is to the family. So when one hurts they all do, especially Kate when she learns her sister's secret.  Dee Henderson running high on the triumphant success of DANGERS IN THE SHADOWS has returned with her promised THE NEGOTIATOR; delicious Dave's story.<br />FBI agent Dave Richman  finds himself trapped in hostage situation, hidden from the captor but not the police negotiator. All becomes quite complex however, when the negotiator is a woman which terrifies Dave.  Yet, Kate is like no other negotiator or woman he was seen before and quickly takes command of the captor with no help from him. What he can't understand is his sudden attraction to her and why that bothers him?<br />Kate O'Malley. as a police negotiator, had thought that she had seen it all. Of course who would have thought that a cocksure FBI agent would find himself a hidden element in this scenario. Now she has  to keep her captor cool and the agent from doing anything stupid. But Dave is not stupid as he quickly realizes that Kate is one exceptional negotiator let alone woman. A woman he wants to get to know more, something that has always eluded him as he cared for his sister. Yet, as he later meets her family he senses that making time with Kate is going to be no easy task. But there are other even bigger hurdles to jump for both Kate and Dave.<br />Ms Henderson has crafted a vividly intense story of a young woman's search for answers to a child's strange past, accept without fear the love of a man she has come to cherish and how it is all possible when one accepts God's love. This story takes the reader on a incredibly plotted roller coaster ride full of suspense sure to keep the reader's heart in their throat as an especially evil element surfaces from Kate's past. THE NEGOTIATOR is the first of a number of planned O'Malley books; save keeper space because the men and woman of the O'Malley's are sure to learn what being wrapped in God's love means for each of them.  Ms. Henderson's work has always been considered gourmet Inspirational Romance, but those who read other romance genre' need only to tantalize their palates with any of her wonderful offerings to learn what a truly gifted storyteller she is.ley books; save keeper space because the men and woman of the O'Malley's are sure to learn what being wrapped in God's love means for each of them.  Ms. Henderson's work has always been considered gourmet Inspirational Romance, but those who read other romance genre' need only to tantalize their palates with any of her wonderful offerings to learn what a truly gifted storyteller she is.	2000-12-01
US	50813598	R190I211JPK9BE	074340341X	810127421	A Season in the Highlands	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Deveraux should have kept it hidden	Deveraux's story!!! Wow what a major disappointment. This anthology was a long awaited and should be read by those who want a bit of the season with a Scottish twist. But don't buy it for the Deveraux story, which was shallow, uninteresting and had no Scottish flavor at all. One almost felt sorry for the characters as they deserved a better plot from this master storyteller. Sure there was the usual great oneliners but they couldn't  hold this plot together, which lacked any real sexual tension or depth nor was the premise believable. It was a rush job if there ever was one. My heavens she didn't even get the castle right, it is Edinburgh Castle and Holyrood Palace, the copy editors should hang their heads in shame on this opps!!!. Also DIY is a well known term in the UK but rarely used here, that too should have been caught be a good copy editor. There was no soul to this story, unlike some her other anthologies which number among some of the best but this one was so very off the mark. Why the secrecy from the reviewers makes one think it wasn't ready because it sure wasn't because it was the quality of a lead story.<br />But don't dispair the other four stories well make up for all that was lacking in the Deveraux one. If you want laughter then the Barnett and Dawson stories are the right ticket. Ms Barnett's tale is short, sweet and will leave a wonderful warm glow. Dawson's is a rare treat for fans of her past books and will sure to generate new sales for her last two books as she gains new ones with her nouvella. The Cabot and Binder tales are equally well written and will satisfy the most descerning reader, as they both have captured the Scottish soul beautifully.<br />If this Anthology were served as a wonderful holiday feast the reader would find the Cabot and Binder stories make great appetizers, the Barnett story a savory main course and the Dawson one a fun delicious dessert but the Deveraux one is best likened to that certain unfavorable vegetable one moves around their plate but just can't swallow.oves around their plate but just can't swallow.	2000-12-01
US	50813598	R3NC894BF1FHQJ	006108073X	980876189	Lady of Lochabar	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Jeanette Baker's first Romance	Those who have loved the wonderful voice of Rita Winner Jeanette Baker, they will want to have this first book from this exceptional author.  Although she does tell the reader that she has manipulated the actual time period, the story is a fictional account of a young child who was one of the few surviors of the horrible Glen Coe Massacre and her life with the man whose family is her enemy.  The hero and heroine are of warring clans but their mutual attraction is what draws them together but not before our heroine has some heartaches along the way and the hero must deal with his family's wicked ways.  Readers will be sure to put this one on their keeper shelves.  This first romance is sure to be a favorite for those who love a tell of love and passion set to a backdrop of the turbulant times of 1600's Scotland with the Campbells and MacDonalds constantly at war with each other and the English government.	2000-10-14
US	50813598	R1BVGGSLYNO77G	0671786113	486399296	Fair Haven	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Next best thing to a trip to Ireland	From the start readers will feel as if they have been taken on vacation to  western Ireland when they meet Michael and Erin who share the friendship of  their dying friend.  His last gift to them is their discovery of an  incredible love for each other through the tears of saying goodbye. A love  reflected in those around them, espeically the children. This is an  exceptionally well plotted ensemble piece but the romance is never lost to  the reader and will certainly leave a well satisfied sigh along with a few  tears.  With FAIR HAVEN, JoAnn Ross returns readers to her magical Ireland;  an Ireland she knows so well readers are sure to feel the sweet mist on  their faces as their hearts are warmed by the lyrical sound of an Irish  brogue. FAIR HAVEN is easily the best book published this year.	2000-08-29
US	50813598	R11P50NHHNQIBY	0671026836	275845431	Indiscretion (Sonnet Books)	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Great Hero but....	Although Ms Hunter is an auto buy I found this latest book from her to be a bit of disappointment. The heorine is of the sort who whines thru the whole book over an incident that appears in their shared past. An incident  she was willingly party to. She seems to want to blame the hero for the  whole thing and it is clear to this reader she needed to get over it and  move on. Here was a man who adored her, she needed to take the chance; she  deserved him and he her. She does eventually get over it but not soon  enough for my total enjoyment of the book. This hero however was a delight,  the best reason to by this book. Great comic relief, rivals some of today's  best commedic contemporary romance authors, ie... SEP. It is hoped that Ms  Hunter will return to the style of her earlier works where her heroines  were strong. providing a wonderful compliment to their heroes.  Although  not my favorite of Ms Hunter's body of work, I would reccomend it for the  excellent characterization of a hero.	2000-06-27
US	50813598	R17LN253CA083G	0006497802	584944189	Lady of Hay	Books	5	13	14	N	N	WoW, a Blast From the Past	What wonderful news to see a classsic book make a reappearance. Who can we thank for such insight? LADY OF HAY is classic past lives/reincarnation, certainly a step up from current time travel . This is where it all started  influencing authors such as Jeanette Baker and Jude Deveraux.  LADY OF HAY  was a wonderful read when it first came out and is now a classic in its own  right, sure to help a whole new generation of readers discover this  exceptional author. The concept of writing two storylines in two seperate  time periods with each effortlessly interwoven with the other is only  possible because of the exceptional writing talent of Ms Erskine. If you  are reader who devours all sorts of the paranormal historicals and  historical romances  this one should be an automatic buy, because this is  where is all began.  This is not time travel this is reincarnation and no  one does it better than Barbara Erskine.  Jody Allen,  Charter member-RIO  Reviewers International Organization	2000-06-27
US	50813598	R2CF12Y583PRC8	157673577X	306852563	Danger In The Shadows	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Don't fear the Inspitational format	As this is  my first inspritational romance I have come to learn that Ms Henderson is sure to become the benchmark for  all other authors to emulate. This offering is one of those books you can't put down and lingers  with the reader well after the last page leaving a uplifting warmth absent  in other romances .  In the past inspirationals equalled a story rift with  Christian messages, as if one could pack a romance around a sermon.  However, this offering from Ms Henderson is what classic romance is all  about: wonderful characters discovering a special love as a sinister  element intent on destroying it looms ahead. They rely on their own  personal strength with God and each other to pull them thru. There are no  preachy messages here but a perfect example of a love of each other and  their relationship with their maker.  Dee Henderson is an author to watch  as each of her next books are as special as this one, each with a romance  which reveals not only love for each other but their God as well. BRAVA !  The best of romance in any subgenre!	2000-06-27
US	50813598	RSU0JZ2IPEVSH	0515127868	210393193	To Marry an Irish Rogue (Irish Eyes)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Top of the line for Irish Eyes	After reading all of the books in this new line from Jove, I find the only one that comes close to capturing the essence of Ireland is Ms Hendrix's book. It is bold in its inception and cunning in its delivery. She has done  a wonderful job of creating Irish syntax making one feel as if they are  right there in County Clare.  The story doesn't disappoint with a  collection of stories within a story sure to leave the reader well  satisfied. It is exciting to find a new voice who has joined the ranks of  Joann Ross and Nora Roberts in giving us an Ireland to love.	2000-06-27
US	50813598	R3UP3D6D57JRC7	0786000392	159408123	A Deeper Magic	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	Classic Romance	This early offering by Ms Hunter far surpasses all of her subsiquent offerings. Not that those books aren't good but this one is exceptional.  She has the hero meet the heroine the first time in a less than perfect  light but one in which a die has been cast. When they meet again on the  lonely Western Scottish island this meeting  creates magnificent sparks as  not only do they feel the pull of attraction for each other but sparks fly  as her magic mingles with his science and the result is a love story that  is what classic romances  are made of.  The transformation of the heroine  from a self centered party girl of sorts into a woman of deep passion for  the land and people is a wonder to behold. Yet it is thru this  transformation that Ms Hunter allows the hero to also experience his  transformation  creating a wonderful blend of strong Beta male laced with a  pinch of Alpha for good measure. This one will leave the reader with a deep  satisfied sigh.  A DEEPER MAGIC may be one of those books hard to find now  that it is out of print but you can't claim to be a historical reader if  you haven't read this one. It is well worth the search and will be read and  read when one needs to feel that contented warmth of classic romance.	2000-06-27
US	50813598	R2W3UMTND74FVV	0006479286	655324600	On the Edge of Darkness	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Wow, a return to Classic Erskine	Having found this book in Scotland last fall, I excitedly purchased it and set aside, only recently getting a chance to read it. This is classic Erskine and a welcome return after her last two books which seemed to be  written for the American market rather than from the heart. All the classic  Erskine elements are here: a Celtic theme, wonderful paranormal elements  and a mystery to be solved. Ms Erskine will not disappoint with this latest  offering. This one is sure to  join the ranks of KINGDOM OF SHADOWS and  LADY OF HAY in providing the reader with a full-bodied read of such depth  and mystery that even the most cynical historical reader won't be able to  put it down. Glad to see a return to what she does best; classic paranormal  fiction	2000-06-27
US	50813598	REGHN2JBEZTE3	0821766473	992311742	Reilly's Law (Irish Blessing)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Wow what a Debut Book	When three young Irish lads lose their Gran, they celebrate her memory as they recite the Druidic  Blessing, be it a blessing or a curse. But for Bryan Reilly, years later he must decide whether the appearance of a  beautiful young woman and her charges are not really a curse or the  blessing he so richly deserves. Although the story is set in England for  the most part those who want a distinctive Irish flavor won't be  disappointed. This debut book from new Ballad line from Zebra is sure to  capture the heart and soul of many historical readers as they take a  journey with two lost souls who have placed honor and integrity before  their own needs.<br />&quot;REILLY'S LAW is fast paced with plenty of  surprises and Ms Keys leaves no loose ends which is remarkable for a debut  book. Knowing this is the first of the Irish Blessings trilogy, readers  will delight in the arrival of REILLY'S GOLD( Dec.2000) and REILLY'S PRIDE(  May 2001) if only so to find out what Bryan is up to. Ms. Keys is a welcome  new voice in historical romance and if this is the quality of the stories  Zebra will offer in their Ballad Romance series romance readers are in for  a rare treat.&quot;  ...so says Romancing the Celtic Soul	2000-06-27
US	50813598	R33J3913OID0IO	0006472648	231566132	Child of the Phoenix	Books	5	40	42	N	N	Classic Historical Writing by the Queen of the Genre	Having read two of Ms Erskine's books LADY OF HAY and KINGDOM OF SHADOWS finding this one with references to people in her other books was like visiting old friends. This book is a masterpiece which should be savored  like fine wine and Godiva chocolate. The reader is catapulted thru time  viewing all through the eyes of one woman who was wife, mother and lover to  some of the most interesting historical personas of the time. Although  fiction, the reader is given a uniquely detailed glimpse into the lives of  British medieval historical personas, seldom seen nor attemped by less  gifted writers. With this book Ms Erskine is in a class by herself and  should be read by both those who are new to her work and those who are  fans. This is a must read for anyone who loves richly woven historical  sagas. Jody Allen,  Charter member of RIO-Reviewers International  Organization	2000-06-27
US	50813598	RWLHQKDGIV5OE	0764222171	443468059	Legend of the Celtic Stone (Caledonia Series, Book 1)	Books	5	16	20	N	N	Wonderful Find	This book was a rich taspitry of history told through the eyes of a troubled young man searching for self and where he fit in whole picture. I was hesitant to read this book knowing it came from a Christian publisher  but the story premise was too compelling to pass up. I was mesmerized at  the different albiet fictional accounts of the history of the Celts across  history.  I couldn't put it down, the top layer story was what held the  whole concept together inviting the reader to quickly return to see what  had happened next. The only draw back I had with the story was the heavy  hand,at times,  to make the Druids the bad guys implying now anyone who  practises this is somehow evil. I am not sure why I expected something  different from the author and his choice of publisher on this element, but  all and all it didn't take much away from the story  and I eagerly await  the next installment in this uniquely plotted saga. I sure am glad to see  that there are still publishers willing  to publish the saga historicals of  the past.  This book is not to be missed by any serious readers who are  looking for richly detailed Celtic stories.  Jody Allen, Charter Member of  RIO- Reviewers International Organization	2000-06-27
US	50813598	R1J1WNKKX9IXVO	0451197186	522302283	Highland Treasure: The Dreamer	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Wonderful new Trilogy from the Word Masters	This new offering from the McGoldricks is sure to become a favorite in the sub genre of historical romances. All of their books showcase their unique ability to use the written word so effortlessly, with &quot;less is  more&quot; being their motto. The history is well researched and accurate  however they never let the history become the story.  With this new  offering readers are treated to a unique set of women who have fallen on  hard times who will find their spiritual other half in the Highlands of  Scotland. This first story was made even more special when the hero who was  first introduced in FLAME returns for a love of his own. And Catherine is a  wonderfully rich heroine (sure to give this highlander a run for his heart)  the kind the McGoldricks are famous for. Yet, even when this special couple  have finally succumbed to their passionate fate,they now must find out what  is going on in the Glen- we are talking a full-bodied read with a few  surprises for the faithful fans of their past books . What makes this and  all the McGoldrick books special is the reoccurance of past characters  interwoven with the new books. But unlike some spinoff books each of these  books are able to stand alone.  IF you like books set in Scotland with  intelligent heroines and heroes who in their boldness are gentle then this  first book in their trilogy is a must read. But save room on your keeper  shelf for the next two due out later this year.	2000-06-27
US	50813598	R1ZBKHN5K3LJ8W	0515127213	28187231	The Courtship	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Opps!  Where is her beloved voice....	As a fan of Ms Coulter's historical I have but one question to ask, where did here wonderful historical voice go?  This was a very disappointing book from an author who is what Classic Romance is all about. The discipline  element was not only absurd but where was the romance? I am all for an  author challenging the envelop to provide a new element in romance but this  was so over the top I did wonder if it was done by a ghost writer: one who  doesn't have a clue about Ms Coulter's wonderful historical voice.  With so  many choices out there vying for my &quot;romance book buying&quot; dollar,  I hope this is not a new trend from a beloved author. Hardly a comfort read  like the Sherbrooke Bride series, maybe it it time for Ms Coutler to step  away from the regency period and return to the Viking/medieval  era of her  earlier books, which are keeper shelf material. I'll pass on this one, and  use it as a trade at my local UBS. Maybe it is unfair to expect a perfect  read each time but this was hardly what one would expect from this Best  Selling author. Opps!	2000-06-27
US	50813598	R4KC0E7EG6RNV	038097536X	271652627	The Heir	Books	4	10	13	N	N	A wonderful journey of happily ever after- 4 1/2 star read	Having not a read a Lindsey in awhile I was totally enchanted with this book set in 19th century England. Although it may appear to be a Regency period, the only reference to a monarchy was the Queen so one could surmise  this was more a Victorian period piece. But that didn't matter. What I  found so enjoyable about the book was that even though it was predictable  in its conclusion the journey to get there was a delightful escape in the  romance reading experience. Maybe not with the angst/intrique of some of  her Mallory books, yet the heroine in this book was one of the most  delightfully portrayed heroines in a long time for this sub genre'. Sabrina  is whitty, knows her place in the great scheme of things with society but  is able to help not only the hero-Duncan MacTavish, but interacts  wonderfully with some of the other characters who hopefully we will see in  future books: Mavis and Lord Locke, to name but a few.  The hero, although  wonderfully noble, takes a backseat to this heroine. Yet, it is thru his  friendship with her he is able to see his way toward a future much more  hopeful than he finds when he first arrives admist betrayals by those who  claim to love him. Sabrina's silly banter with both Duncan and Locke is  delivered as a unique counterpoint to the friendly and not so friendly  banter of both Duncan's Scottish and English Grandfather's. Add to this the  lesser developed banter of arguements by Sabrina's aunts and it makes for a  delightfully fun romp.<br />To counter the goodness of Sabrina Ms. Lindsey  has created a wonderfull selfcentered nasty creature in Ophelia Reid who  finally gets her due but not without hurting innocents along the way. I for  one was thrilled when both Mavis and Sabrina had at her,this kind of  retribution is not often perpetuated by the heroine but it made me like her  and Mavis all the more. These were characters who to my mind acted in true  fashion by not being so unbelelivably forgiving.  There were few low points  to this story as the readers is whisked along with things not settled  between Sabrina and Duncan until the very end. I especially liked that the  sensuality of the couple did become the story, as seems to be the trend in  today's romance ficiton but that the story was about Duncan and Sabrina's  journey to find a lasting love. I found this to be a wonderful return to  the type of story Ms. Lindsey is loved for. Certainly a keeper in my book.  Having read many harcover of late this is one of the few worth the added  cost.oints  to this story as the readers is whisked along with things not settled  between Sabrina and Duncan until the very end. I especially liked that the  sensuality of the couple did become the story, as seems to be the trend in  today's romance ficiton but that the story was about Duncan and Sabrina's  journey to find a lasting love. I found this to be a wonderful return to  the type of story Ms. Lindsey is loved for. Certainly a keeper in my book.  Having read many harcover of late this is one of the few worth the added  cost.	2000-05-17
US	50813598	R3L421MZYVQT47	0440235340	130882527	School for Scandal:  How to Kiss a Hero	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A breath of fresh air to regency romance.	Romancing the Celtic Soul says... Ms Hingston's delightful tale, HOW TO  KISS A HERO, is sure to add a breath of fresh air to the current offerings in Regency period historicals.  I was delighted to see how well developed  the cast of characters were for a Regency.  Readers will clamor for more  tales from the School for Scandal as Gwen, and Elizabeth must have there  own stories. In like fashion, readers will want to know if there is a hero  for the sullen but waspish Lady Katherine as well.<br />Although the story  takes place entirely in England, there are many delightful references to  Scotland.  Lady Meagan Boru is a wonderful comic addition, butlers beware!  Even the dour Scottish valet adds an element of suspense that will catch  the readers by surprise.  Ms. Hingston has proven time and again, with her  unique talent at creating well developed stories, that the Regency period  need not be boring nor predictable to be fun. HOW TO KISS A HERO is much  more than a tale of an ugly duckling's transformation as she teaches her  hero about courage with a special love sure to make him whole again, much  to the delight of readers.	2000-02-28
US	50813598	R2R28X7GE6UR00	0515126772	914501828	Jewels of the Sun: The Gallaghers of Ardmore Trilogy (Irish Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Irish Fun	Kudos to Ms Roberts for a wonderfully light story set in a beautiful part of Ireland. The story was not indepth like some of her others but it was a fun read with real characters who could easily be found in countless Irish  villages. Having been to Ardmore and drove the route from Dublin as a first  time driver I found that she has captured the true sense of adventure with  delightful humor. Few do it better than Nora!  I am thankful that Nora is  able to continue to provide her readers with a wide variety of choices, so  those of us who read for fun don't need to have feel that each of her  stories have to be intense. I say lighten up to those who complain this is  fluff. This may not have the emotional punch her BORN IN series has but I  believe it to be a truer picture of the people of Ireland. I look forward  to finding about the others in Ardmore soon with each new book in this  wonderfully light trilogy.	2000-01-25
US	50813598	R1569ALTCXHUNJ	0312868588	375756038	Border Crossings	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	An Irish Family's Peace: for country and family	BORDER CROSSINGS is like a rare diamond with  many unique facests casting off interesting insights into one familiy's struggle to find a compromise for the love of their country, their family and for each other. Ms  Bellecera will have readers on the edge of their seats as an Irish family's  loyality is challeneged at every turn, but poignantly seen through the eyes  of an American daughter-in-law. Not only does the author share a rare  insight into the problems of Northern Ireland and its politics but she  achingly shows how these politics effect the common man on both sides of  the issue. BORDER CROSSINGS is so powerfull it will stay with the reader  long after the last page.	1999-06-21
US	50813598	RP4034QSD7JPF	0373242662	51170558	A Family Secret (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	You gotta love to those tortured heroes!!!	Ms. Brashear's hero in A FAMILY SECRET is a wonderful blend of angst and sexy emotions as he struggles to live with the hand his dead father has dealt him. Of course it doesn't help the object of his desire is the one  person who is an instrument of his father's treachery. Ms Brashear's unique  talent at creating troubled characters is showcased when Boone and Maddie  struggle to learn that each is the other half of their whole. Readers  should put this on their &quot;to buy&quot; list as soon as possible to  ensure getting a copy. Jean Brashear will soon be an automatic buy for the  most discriminating readers, but will there be enough copies for all who  want one? .	1999-05-26
US	50813598	RHWNMD3W9HU6G	0451408004	45910726	A Stockingful of Joy (Onyx Historical Romance)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Snow Rose a five star read in a four star anthology	Although the other stories in this anthology were interesting reads none touched me like the Snow Rose by Susan King. It was a poignant story of how a young woman was able thru  her own pain helped another deal with his  pain, making the reader the winner. Having read the prequel of sorts to  this nouvella, THE RAVEN'S WISH, I found that she has created a wonderful  story for one of the many Fraser cousin's who needed their own. The story  was believable and was perfect for the holiday season<br />creating a  believable sense of hope that all will be well. It isn't easy to write a  satisfying story in so few pages but Ms. King's writing ability shines thru  with this most endearing story of a promise redeemed in a most unusual way  by a most wonderful hero all to capture the love of his heroine. Of the  stories in this anthology Ms King's gave the reader the most hope this  holiday season and her other books are not to be missed by any who call  themselves romance readers.	1999-04-25
US	50813598	R2W2YP2WVPWDUJ	0451406621	532895812	The Angel Knight	Books	5	70	71	N	N	Five Star read From Five Star Historical Researcher	To all you who like a good medieval story or one with a Scottish setting Susan King's THE ANGEL KNIGHT is wonderful. The setting is 1306 Scotland where the heroine Christian has just burned her lowland castle in support  of Robert Bruce. As she escapes she is captured by King Edward's men and is  imprisioned in a cage hanging from a castle in the borders. She is found by  the hero Gavin Faulkener at near death. He has returned to England having  been exiled 10 years before for treasonous talk about the way the English  sacked Berwick so although he is an English Knight of the realm he has very  little loyalty to Edward. He has been given Christian's castle and is  expected to restore it as well as look for the legendary gold that lies  buried in the castle. He removes Christian from her cage with very little  authority as he believes she will die and marries her quickly as means of  solidifying his right to the castle.  She doesn't die and as he restores  the castle loves grows between the two. There are, as usual, wonderful  developed secondary characters and an element of mystical Celtic lore.  A  strong point of Ms King's work is that she knows her history and blends it  so nicely with her romance novels but the history doesn't take over the  story. I would highly reccommend this one as well as all of her books for a  most satisfying historical read; she easily is at the top of historical  romance rung with books that are well thought out and historically accurate  to boot. No one does a Scottish setting better than Susan King	1999-04-20
US	50813598	R7YB5PW4Y3VOI	0451407687	225483294	Laird of the Wind	Books	4	20	21	N	N	A Scottish Romance With Depth	Having read all of Ms King's books, I found this one to be one of her most intriquing reads. Although not my absolute favorite, she provides the reader with a flawed hero struggling with an internal conflict: a flaw not  of his making but from the conflicts around him. Add to this a storyline  that is unique in its inception and creative in its delivery. The conflict  between the hero and heroine and the influences from without make this an  exceptional read. Ms Kings working knowledge of Scottish history along with  a unique talent to create plots that are unique is what sets her apart from  other historical authors such as Amanda Quick, whose stories are formula  writing needing only to insert a new heroine/hero in the same old plot so  that each is a reflection of the last. Julie Garwood(whose Scottish stories  are among my favorites) are sweet comfort reads which never create the  intense internal conflicts that a Susan King books does; to compare them is  like comparing CNN to CBS, each has it's own niche. Garwood books lack any  real historical content, having read them all can't say I came away  learning anything new about Scotland but I don't think that is her intent.  The reader gets a great story with Ms. King so historically centered  that  the reader feels they are there. Ms. King's books are not comfort reads but  are wonderful full bodied stories rich with internal conflict and a history  well researched. Any book by Ms.King is a keeper to be re-read when the  mood strikes.	1999-04-20
US	50813598	R3DD2Q2D6KZYJR	0451407741	750082658	The Heather Moon (Scottish Clans)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Historical Romance at It's Best	Ms King has done it again with a story that is intensly satisfing for the reader. She has created wonderfully developed characters who the reader will care about and who become more real as each page is turned. Ms King's  become a leader in writing historical set in Scotland and Heather Moon is a  classic example of her extraordinary talent.  When others are clamouring to  write about the Highlands she can give the reader a story set in the  turbulant southern Borders of Scotland that is rich in detail with  historical twists and turns that satisy the most synical reader. HEATHER  MOON is a keeper to be sure for any serious romance reader who wants a  story that is well researched but at no time does the history take over the  story. Never does she use the often trite meaningless sex scene to move her  story along. The sensual scenes are done with taste and within the context  of the story.  No romance author today weaves a more vivd tapistry of  history, intrique, magic and love with all its many hues than MS. King. You  can't be a serious romance reader if you don't read Ms King.	1999-04-20
US	50813598	RZDN0XHNL0K4A	0451405455	176277315	The Raven's Wish (Topaz Historical Romances)	Books	5	36	37	N	N	A Great 2nd book from a First Class Author	After the battle Blar-na-Le'ine (historically accurate), when only five Fraser warriors remained, a legend was born. Eighty Fraser widows are with child and legend prophesies all will give birth to fatherless sons: a new  generation of Fraser warriors. However the legend also produces a welcome  gift, a wee lassie, Elspeth Fraser. Raised with her male cousins at Castle  Glenran, Elspeth is as wild and as free as her beloved Highlands and male  cousins. She adds to the legend the gift of second sight. In a vision she  sees a man in black riding a black horse circled by ravens (death). Soon  after, she and her cousins confront their enemies, the MacDonalds. As luck  would have it, they are observed by Duncan Macrae, dressed in black riding  a black horse. Duncan is the lawyer (a lawyer you will love) sent from  Queen Mary's court to present Clan Fraser with a &quot;bond of  caution&quot; as a means to stop the feuding between the neighboring clans.  Because of this mission he intervenes between Elspeth and the MacDonalds.  When he touches her, Elspeth and Duncan's fate is sealed in this vision. A  vision that reveals his death at the heading block and her role in  it.<br />Duncan, absent Laird of Dulsie, begins to feel the pull of his native  Highlands as well as his growing desire for the wee lass, Elspeth. In an  effort to protect Elspeth, her cousins suggest she marry Duncan and in turn  the Fraser Clan will sign the &quot;bond of caution.&quot; Elspeth refuses,  despite having feelings for him, because of the vision. Duncan agrees to  marry her. Their marriage ceremony is one of the most humorous scenes in  the book thanks to the antics of the cousins. From here Ms King takes the  reader on exciting twists and turns through the Highlands and Lowlands of  Scotland as Duncan and Elspeth triumph over evil to discover love and  loyalty. Yet it is this love and loyalty that brings them face to face with  the reality of Elspeth's vision.<br />Ms. King has done what few writers have  tried to do. She has told an intriguing story about Scots: blending the  historic character of Highlander and Lowlander. BRAVA!! This book is a must  for anyone who loves a story with intrigue, magic and lasting love. It's  time to dust off a space on your keeper shelf because THE RAVEN'S WISH  deserves a place there but save a place for her delightful story in the  Anthology A STOCKINGFUL OF JOY where she returns to the wonderfully sexy  Fraser men. The story is called &quot;The Snow Rose&quot; and is not to be  missed. It is a wonderful sequel that shows eloquently the talent that Ms  King has in creating charcters that stay with a reader well after the last  page.writers have  tried to do. She has told an intriguing story about Scots: blending the  historic character of Highlander and Lowlander. BRAVA!! This book is a must  for anyone who loves a story with intrigue, magic and lasting love. It's  time to dust off a space on your keeper shelf because THE RAVEN'S WISH  deserves a place there but save a place for her delightful story in the  Anthology A STOCKINGFUL OF JOY where she returns to the wonderfully sexy  Fraser men. The story is called &quot;The Snow Rose&quot; and is not to be  missed. It is a wonderful sequel that shows eloquently the talent that Ms  King has in creating charcters that stay with a reader well after the last  page.	1999-04-20
US	50813598	R13PDAPO4EDZEH	0451408179	980095422	Red, Red Rose	Books	4	1	1	N	N	If you like Richard Sharpe you will love Lt. Val Aston	The story is really from the pov of the hero Valentine Aston, who is the natural son of an Earl. The prolouge is quite long but it helps to understand this dishy hero. The time setting is early in the Peninsular war  as Wellington and his troops are trying to push the French from Portugal.  The heroine is wonderful as well as she helps him to come to grips with who  he is and how to love. There is quite a good story here and though I did  firgure out what was going on early I loved how the author spun the tale as  our wonderful hero Val grew to understand love and what it meant to be  loved. Ms Farrell's ability to show the transformation was quite good.  There were great secondary characters but they never took over. She even  added a bit of humor with  the hero and a piglet. If you like the regency  period but want a story that has messages for today this is one that you  should check out. This one moved me to tears more than once.	1999-02-04
US	50813598	R3QU106CH1J4KX	0821756699	220784604	Beloved Heart	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	A wonderful PS to a great trilogy	BELOVED HEART is a wonderful completion to the saga of the family of Michel Faurer and Madeleine de Courtnay first told in Ms.Burgess's BELOVED KNIGHT. BELOVED KNIGHT, the first in the trilogy, sets the stage for future  books; set in a back drop complete with Templar Knight betrayal and the  struggles of Robert Bruce's fight for Scotland's freedom. Next in the saga  came the story of son, Rene and his struggle to capture the fiesty Cat  Douglass, while struggling with a legacy his father left him. BELOVED HONOR  is filled with page turning conflicts rich in anguish as both Rene and Cat  find a way to to secure their love and Scotland's future. Lastly the third  book in the triology is possibly the best of the first three books.  This  is the story of Anne Faurer, the daughter, who has her mother's beauty and  her father's determination to fight for Scotland's cause. However, she  loses her heart to the English Lord who now owns her parent's home. Yet  their lives are interwoven as she races to save a brother she loves and  possibly lose the only man she could ever call her BELOVED LORD. The ending  of this last book leaves the reader wanting more and Ms Burgess doesn't  leave her faithful readers hanging. However, she jumps the story up 400  years to another time in Scottish history where admist the turmoils of  another fight for freedom, a love is born in the home that was built of  Faurer love. BELOVED HEART is a cherished PS to the BELOVED saga. All four  books are not to be missed by those who love a tale interwoven in a  tapistry that reflects the rich details of Scotland's history where love  for one's country is as important as love for each other. Mallory Burgess  is one author not to be missed by serious historical romance readers.	1998-11-14
