US	50813924	R1U2UZY859N66Z	0967457602	659589960	A Fortune at Your Feet: How You Can Get Rich, Stay Rich, and Enjoy Being Rich with Creative Real Estate	Books	3	21	24	N	N	The author has a long real estate career BUT....	Some people claim that A. D. Kessler is the father of creative real estate.  He is the publisher of a magazine by that name, Creative Real Estate.  Also Robert G. Allen of \\"Nothing Down\\" fame apparently attended creative real estate classes conducted by A. D. Kessler before writing \\"Nothing Down\\".  With those three credentials before him there are certainly high expectations for this book.  The author started investing in real estate following his return as a decorated and wounded soldier from World War II.  At 80 years old and still currently active in real estate, Kessler's career in real estate is among the longest.  The only other living author/investor that comes to mind is David Schmacher and his book \\"Buy and Hold.\\"  <br />Kessler gives freely in his book of his sage advice.  <br />\\"There are no problem properties only problem ownership.\\"<BR>\\"Buy in the path of progress.\\"<BR>\\"Find property that is increasing in value.\\"<BR>\\"Buy on the water side.\\"<BR>\\"Buy on the hill side.\\"<BR>\\"A word on Pyramiding    Don't\\"<br />Much of this is generalities that either is common knowledge or is subjective.  I'm sure almost every investor is looking for a property that will increase in value.  And most people don't need to read a book to come to that conclusion.  But the implementation of that idea is easier said than done.  Buying on the hill side and water side are also kind of intuitive.  His caution on pyramiding is that you could be overextended if there is a decrease in market value or some other turn in your fortunes.  There is merit to that, but on the other hand to grow you have to expand.  There is a fine line between overextending yourself and growing your business, but I can't tell you where that fine line is for you.   Kessler ascribes to the win-win negotiating theory as does his student Robert G. Allen.  There are many techniques that if you read the Allen book will seem familiar.  Substitution of Collateral, walking the mortgage, dealing in paper, are just someof these topics.  There is a section on exchanging, options and estate planning.  There are many personal stories about Kessler, his associates, clients and friends in the book from the author's long tenure in real estate.  But despite the experiences of the author and his long career in real estate, this is not an excellent book, only a good book.  Most of the stories are general in nature and don't present the details to translate this story to something practical today.  The original book was written in 1981 and updated in 1999 for the new millennium.  With Kessler's wealth of experiences, his Creative Real Estate Magazine, and the gurus he has taught, I would have expected this book to have the possibilities of either a 4 or 5 star rating.  But with the generalities, the platitudes, and profundities and lack of details I can only give it a 3 star rating.	2003-04-13
US	50813924	R1IWESKGPGW2AH	0671526189	639436988	The Challenge	Books	2	10	10	N	N	Dated but True Story of a Real Estate Challenge	Robert G. Allens third book written in 1987 chronicles the challenge of taking 3 people of out a St. Louis unemployment line and teaching them about real estate.  The Challenge is for the 3 students to have $5,000 cash in 90 days.  This is a true story that will have many parallels to the fiction story written by Allen 15 years later in The One Minute Millionaire.  This book is inspirational and motivational rather than an instruction book on real estate.  This book by itself would not provide a person with enough information to go forward and this book doe not even share all the instructions that are given to the 3 unemployed students.  <br />The book is easy to read and understand, and the inside dust jacket claims that it reads like a novel.  This may be true, but if you are looking for a recipe or a cook book, you will be disappointed.  The Challenge is more of the story of how 3 people without cooking knowledge could become short order cooks.  But if you wanted a book telling you HOW to be a real estate chef, this book is not for you.  On the plus side these are real people with real stories, sometimes sad, sometimes happy and they started with literally nothing and succeeded with the teaching of Robert Allen and the mentoring and coaching of others assembled for this project.  At the end of the book one of the students is said to have controlled over several million in real estate.  I would have liked to see more follow on, and even an update to the present.  Apparently The Challenge itself took place in the summer of 1984 and for me I would like to see where Steve and Mary Boneberger, Karen and Philip Moore, and Nora Jean Boles are today with respect to their real estate investments.  The real story is about them and its a compelling story at that, but it is not a real estate instructional book.  I enjoyed reading their story, but I would have liked to see what instruction they were given, more details of the deals they didand a more detailed follow up on their successes after The Challenge and for that and the age of the book I would rate it as 2.5 stars.	2003-03-30
US	50813924	R1HDV7Z6JB3DYX	0671725580	518520568	Nothing Down for the 90s	Books	4	32	33	N	N	Classic, historic, Real Estate book	First written in 1980 and updated for 1990. Robert G. Allen's book has sold over a million copies and is the all time bestselling real estate book.  When I first read this book in 1980, I was very impressed; and after taking Robert Allen's \\"Nothing Down\\" seminar and meeting him in person I was more impressed.  Though I had bought real estate including a personal residence and investment property before reading his book, Nothing Down made an impact.  The message was you can buy real estate without cash.  What a great message for somebody who doesn't have any cash.  There are certainly portions of this book that are out of date.  He writes of 10% annual appreciation in properties, as if its etched in stone.  But where I live the appreciation rate has been more like 3% on average.<br />Rents and purchase prices listed in the book are also out of date, as you would expect for a 13 year old book.  A four unit example in the book is listed for sale at $78,000, not many of those left today.  In addition there are references to the Resolution Trust Corporation, which no longer exists.  Some of the techniques for Nothing Down were the result of brainstorming between the author and other investors and associates.  Some of these techniques were great in theory but are difficult to apply in the real world.  In one chapter of the book the author states that when you buy properties in foreclosure that \\"you pay sometimes 60 to 70 cents on the dollar.\\"  Two factors have affected foreclosure sales.  The first factor is more and more property owners are deeper in debt and there is often little, zero, or negative equity.  The second factor is that there is much more awareness of foreclosure sales and they are much better attended by investors looking for bargains.  To the author's favor is his credit to John Schaub and Jack Miller for their input to the chapter of 5 year retirement.<br />Prior to Robert Allen's \\"Nothing Down\\" there were only two significant real estate book, to my way of thinking.  Those would be \\"How I turned $1,000 into 1 Million in Real Estate in My Spare Time\\" by William Nickerson (1959) and \\" How you can Become Financially Independent by Investing in Real Estate\\" by Albert J. Lowry (1977).  Oh there were other books some of them were even fairly decent.  But none with the impact of Nickerson and Lowry until Robert Allen, who not only spawned many real estate books, courses, and gurus of the last 20 years.  There is a historical significance to \\"Nothing Down\\" by not only its message, but also what came after it and what had come before it.  The Nickerson and Lowry books mentioned here are also recommended reading.  The Nickerson book is harder to get and more expensive, but the Lowry book is almost as good.<br />Allen writes in an easy to understand style, that shouts out that real estate is an investment that the average person can comprehend and accomplish goals of financial success.  There are chapters in the book on paper, lots of owner financing ideas, and overcoming roadblocks.  If you are just starting out in real estate this is a great first book, because if you read most other books of the last 20 years, there will be some of Robert Allen's influence there.  Go to the source.  If you're an experienced investor, you probably already read this book.  The book is dated as mentioned before, and some of the techniques may not apply today, and some may even be illegal today, like \\"silent second mortgages.\\"  Mortgage seasoning was not even a term used 20 years ago, but now you hear it almost every day.  Additionally the book does not mention other current aspects of real estate investment such as limits on the number of mortgages one person can have.  When I first read this book in 1980 it was clearly a 5 star book.  And even though I still appreciate the historical significance of this classic book, there are clearly portions of this book not updated to today;  and for those flaws the rating today is 4 stars.y of thinking.  Those would be \\"How I turned $1,000 into 1 Million in Real Estate in My Spare Time\\" by William Nickerson (1959) and \\" How you can Become Financially Independent by Investing in Real Estate\\" by Albert J. Lowry (1977).  Oh there were other books some of them were even fairly decent.  But none with the impact of Nickerson and Lowry until Robert Allen, who not only spawned many real estate books, courses, and gurus of the last 20 years.  There is a historical significance to \\"Nothing Down\\" by not only its message, but also what came after it and what had come before it.  The Nickerson and Lowry books mentioned here are also recommended reading.  The Nickerson book is harder to get and more expensive, but the Lowry book is almost as good.<br />Allen writes in an easy to understand style, that shouts out that real estate is an investment that the average person can comprehend and accomplish goals of financial success.    There are chapters in the book on paper, lots of owner financing ideas, and overcoming roadblocks.  If you are just starting out in real estate this is a great first book, because if you read most other books of the last 20 years, there will be some of Robert Allen's influence there.  Go to the source.  If you're an experienced investor, you probably already read this book.  The book is dated as mentioned before, and some of the techniques may not apply today, and some may even be illegal today, like \\"silent second mortgages.\\"  Mortgage seasoning was not even a term used 20 years ago, but now you hear it almost every day.  Additionally the book does not mention other current aspects of real estate investment such as limits on the number of mortgages one person can have.  When I first read this book in 1980 it was clearly a 5 star book.  And even though I still appreciate the historical significance of this classic book, there are clearly portions of this book not updated to today;  and for those flaws the rating today is 4 stars.	2003-03-29
US	50813924	R2YB604SWG46GL	0671621009	627269928	Creating Wealth: Retire in Ten Years Using Allen's Seven Principles of Wealth!	Books	2	22	23	N	N	A let down and out of date	After the phenomenal success of \\"Nothing Down\\" in 1980, Robert Allen's second real estate book \\"Creating Wealth\\" published in 1983 was a big disappointment. Even when I read it for the first time in 1983 I was let down. Reading it again in 2003 \\"Creating Wealth\\" is even a bigger disappointment. I like Robert Allen in general, and have heard him speak in person.  He has some great ideas and is the Father of Nothing Down. The chapter on Federal Income Taxes is totally obsolete having been written before the tax changes of both 1987 and 1997. The introduction of the Alternate Minimum Tax makes the paying of zero taxes, as proposed by this book even more difficult if not impossible. The ... cap on passive rental losses and the extension of depreciation schedules to 27.5 years for residential properties also has effectively limited a taxpayer's ability to pay zero taxes. The chapter on coin collecting seems to be out of place in this book. Those 16 pages in a 300 page book on real estate seem to serve little purpose except as a failed attempt to show that the author is not one dimensional and limited to real estate. If real estate makes you a millionaire, I don't see anything wrong with being one dimensional with real estate.  The chapter on where to put your cash is also extremely out of date when banks, CDs, and money markets are paying such low current interest. Additionally the book was written before the savings and loan bailout/fiasco. The chapter on asset protection is weak and was written pre-LLCs. And the chapter of Limited Partnerships is also dated.    Some of the content is a repeat of what was in \\"Nothing Down\\" and some of the content is repeated in later books by the author. The story of \\"Acres of Diamonds\\" and of the LA Times challenge are later written about in other Allen books. There are some excellent points made in the book, one of my favorites is that the buying of real estate is the most exciting aspect of real estate, while the rental management isboring and a hassle. In that chapter entitled \\"I Hate Real Estate\\", the author says that despite the hassles he buys real estate \\"because the good points far outweigh the bad ones.\\" That does sum it up, real estate is a way for an average person to make some money, increase your assets, and retire early. Also included in the book is his automatic pilot program, whereby real estate throws off cash with little time investment. The chapter on the \\"Lazy Man's Method\\" also is worth while and explains his idea of advertising for sellers to call you. There are interesting tips and his \\"Property Selection Grid\\" will help to distinguish a good purchase from a bad purchase, and an excellent purchase from a marginal one. The 5 categories on the grid are seller motivation, location, financing, price, and property condition. By evaluating each property on a scale of 1 to 3 for each category you can determine if a property is worth pursuing. Allen says only buy property scoring 12 or above. Overall the book is not as good as \\"Nothing Down\\" and several chapters are out of date, therefore I can only rate it 2 stars.	2003-03-29
US	50813924	RDTSACUHQ4SMN	0324134908	115017249	Internet Marketing in Real Estate	Books	5	0	0	N	N	This book conects the dots bwteen the web and Real Estate	I have seen no other book devoted to the internet and real estate.  This book is loaded with good information on setting up a web site for your real estate interests or business.  The book is written that even a person unfamilar with the technical aspects of the internet can benefit from this book.  This book written in 2001 is up to date in the ever changing world of the internet.  There are tons of web sites listed in the book, which if that was all there was in this book would be valuable.  Ideas on the content of your web site is provided, as well as a chapter on email.  Conventions with email, and even email etiquette.  Anybody involved in real estate, whether an agent, broker, investor, or an individual buyer and seller of real estate will want to read this book.  And don't forget about landlords and property manager, who should also have a web site.  One advice given in the book is that everywhere that your phone number is printed so should your email address.  I would only add to that also your web site URL.	2003-03-20
US	50813924	RE27SLG9BR3AI	0324134908	115017249	Internet Marketing in Real Estate	Books	5	1	1	N	N	This book conects the dots bwteen the web and Real Estate	I have seen no other book devoted to the internet and real estate.  This book is loaded with good information on setting up a web site for your real estate interests or business.  The book is written that even a person unfamilar with the technical aspects of the internet can benefit from this book.  This book written in 2001 is up to date in the ever changing world of the internet.  There are tons of web sites listed in the book, which if that was all there was in this book would be valuable.  Ideas on the content of your web site is provided, as well as a chapter on email.  Conventions with email, and even email etiquette.  Anybody involved in real estate, whether an agent, broker, investor, or an individual buyer and seller of real estate will want to read this book.  And don't forget about landlords and property manager, who should also have a web site.  Personally I have 2 web sites and of course email; and there will come a time if it has not already happened where, you will not be able to operate in this business without either.  One advice given in the book is that everywhere that your phone number is printed so should your email address.  I would only add to that also your web site URL.	2003-03-20
US	50813924	R2MWP51177DVIK	0609609491	110923267	The One Minute Millionaire: The Enlightened Way to Wealth	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Motivation & Inspiration not a tech manual	I have bought and read now 7 of Robert G. Allen's books, though I have never read any of Mark Victor Hansen's books, but I am fond of Chicken Soup.   This therefore is not the first book by Robert Allen that I've read; and just as obvious, I have kept reading Robert Allen because there was always something in his books that interested me, mostly real estate.  I was somewhat disappointed by the book.  Obviously when you combine the talents of two best selling authors, the expectation are high.  Perhaps the expectations and subsequent disappointment would not have been as great if the book was written by John Smith and Jim Jones.  But if the book has been written by two unknown authors, then I'm positive that the sales would never have been as great as they have been.  I'm sure that many people have purchased this book, just because of the reputation of the authors.  To their credit both authors are proven and accomplished authors and marketers.  The concept of two books, one fiction and one non-fiction in a single binding is an interesting concept.   I do however remember a .25 cent Wonder book with two books in one, having another book upside down where the back cover usually was located, so they did not originate the twin book marketing package.  On page 178 there is a typographical error, which surprised me as I don't ever remember an error in Allen's other books.  Perhaps the editor of the Allen/Hansen Dream Team wasn't a Squirrel (detail worker).  An annoying aspect of the book was the repeated references to their website.  In some cases it was if a sentence was written in the book, and the completion of that sentence had to be found on their web site.  Other times it seemed that the reference to the website was a gratuitous advertisement.  In either event I understand why they sprinkled the website throughout the book, but it was not always appreciated.  In the former case if a sentence or a thought needed to be completed then it should have been written out inthe book.  In the latter case perhaps a chapter entitled, \\"And now a word from our sponsors\\" would be more appropriate.  When there are numerous commercials within the text of this book or any book, I always feel like maybe the book should have been free instead of [$$].<br />All that said the authors write well in a smooth flowing and understandable style.  Much of the book is motivational or inspirational.  There is spirituality to an Allen book that is worthwhile but missing in many other authors.  I've had the pleasure of hearing him speak and he has a commanding personality in person as well as through his writings.  He writes in the book about tithing and how giving is always returned to the giver in one form or another.  The bible says that you will reap what you sow.   Sort of like what goes around, comes around.  The nonfiction book has chapters on networking, team work, systems, skills, leverage, and 24 principles of wealth.  Positive thinking and the power of your own mind are recurring themes throughout the book. <br />The fiction book concerns the story of a down and out young woman and her road to financial recovery using the techniques of the nonfiction book.  At first I thought maybe that Allen wrote the nonfiction book and Hansen wrote the fiction, but I'm not sure that that's true, as they both might have written both.  The characters of the fiction book are all female except for the token two males.  One of the males is a lying, cheating, scheming, cold hearted SOB, while the better of the two is only a two faced, lying, ne'er do well, scoundrel.  This may be political correctness, but I call it male bashing.  Unfortunately the authors are not the only ones guilty of this, as this philosophy is prevalent in TV, movies and other books.  The fiction book was an easy read and could be read in one sitting, albeit long.  While there's not much chance that this story will ever be made into an academy award winning movie, it is an interesting and somewhat riveting tale interwoven with lessons.  The story is more of a parable.  And since it is a parable the $1million in 90 days, should probably not be taken literally.  It is a simple story used to illustrate the points made in the nonfiction book.  To that end I feel that it is a success.  <br />Since I had read so many other books by Robert Allen, I was able to pick out stories from this book that were also included in earlier books.  The real estate section of the nonfiction book is a good 20 page summary of \\"Nothing Down\\"; while other sections were lifted from the \\"Multiple Streams\\" books.  And the one real diamond among the 49 cubic zirconians (fake diamonds) exercise, that is retold in the book is one that I got to witness first hand in Philadelphia years ago.  The first time you see this exposition, I must say, is most impressive and thought provoking, and is still well remembered.  Allen puts the 50 stones on a table and offers to give the real diamond to a member of the audience, who can distinguish the real one from the fakes in 60 seconds.  I take it that he has done this many times and nobody ever gets the diamond.  The lesson being with the proper training and tools, anybody could pick out the real gem.  <br />I'd recommend that anyone read this book knowing that the main trust is inspirational and motivational, but that this is not the best book ever written.  It is not even the best book ever written by Robert Allen, and for that it's rated a solid 3.5 stars out of 5.	2003-03-17
US	50813924	R1SBF5047W992V	0761525319	579985176	Managing Rental Properties for Maximum Profit, Revised 3rd Edition: Save Time and Money with Greg Perry's Foolproof System for: *Buying the right ... tenants *Getting paid on time *Fixing and	Books	3	73	76	N	N	Not the best, but not the worst either	This is not the best book on land lording, and not even the second best, but none the less this is a book worth reading.  However, if you are a serious landlord and are only going to read one book, this is not the one to read.  The #1 book to read is \\"Landlording\\" by Leigh Robinson, which I rated as 5 stars.  \\"The Landlording Kit\\" by Jeffrey Taylor is rated 4 stars by me.  And Greg Perry's book and Richard Jorgensen's book \\"The New No-Nonsense Landlord\\" is 3 stars.  The Milan book is a solid one star.<br />I still recommend that you read this book, just not ONLY this book.  The author claims that he \\"owns and manages or co-manages nearly 50 rental properties.\\"  That's a pretty vague statement.  He could own and manage 1 property and co-manage 45 properties and that would be \\"nearly 50 rental properties.\\"  One of his early points is that your name and phone number should not be advertised in the rental ad.  He says that you should establish an open house Friday afternoon and Saturday morning and have all the prospective tenants come around at one time.  This would save you phone time with prospective renters, but I'm not sure that this would always be effective.  When renting averaged priced rentals in the season, this might work;  but I can see times when renting a high priced property or renting out of season that there would be few maybe no prospects at your open house.  In another chapter the author suggests filing your deed at the courthouse with the clerk of courts as routine with every lease signing.  First of all in Pennsylvania the Clerk of Courts only handles criminal proceedings, so that wouldn't be the right place to file anyway.  But more importantly filing the lease is an unnecessary cost as well as a very public window into your private affairs. <br />On the other hand another tip of driving by your rental properties when in the vicinity makes a lot of sense to me.  Checking up on your rentals routinely can be a good dose of preventive medicine.  Another excellent tip is to lower your tenant's utility bills.  Even if the tenants pay the entire heat bill, insulation, storm windows, etc. will be appreciated by the tenants and lower heat bills will cause a renter to stay longer.  Providing appliances is a great landlord debate.  Personally we provide apartments with refrigerators and stoves, but many houses are rented without refrigerators.  Some higher end properties are rented with dishwashers, and washer and dryers.  If I house has a garbage disposal, we'll keep it. But if it breaks it will not be replaced.  Recently one disposal had a tendency to attract beer bottle caps.  First and second repair bills were at tenant expense.  My philosophy is that the more and heavier things that the tenant owns, like refrigerators, washers, and dryers, the less likely they will move.  But I can't give you proof for that.  <br />Mr. Perry does recommend that you buy houses where the rent is 1-2% of the purchase price per month.  In other words a $100,000 house would rent for $1,000 to $2,000 per month.  That's a great idea but hard to execute in reality.  Two percent is very hard but not impossible to get.  You'll have to look hard and NOT be in a high priced area.<br />This is not a bad book, but it's not the best either.  There are many tips in the book.  The author has some good ideas, but other authors have more.	2003-03-16
US	50813924	R2EONHQJKRUT5L	0767905385	262010179	Catch Me If You Can: The True Story of a Real Fake	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A true and daring story of a teanaged con man	I've seen the movie and read the book and I enjoyed both.  The movie stars Leonardo DiCaprio as the con man of the title being pursued by Tom Hanks as the FBI agent.  The book is a true story about a 16 year old New York runaway who leads the FBI and other law enforcement on a 5 year globe trotting escapade of bouncing check, forged payroll checks and life in the fast lane.  The author impersonated a Pan American pilot, a pediatric doctor, and an attorney among others.  He did this mostly as a teenager who dropped out of high school.  Obviously he is not your average drop out, but an intelligent and scheming confidence man.  He was more that just a two-bit paper hanger, as he developed techniques using the Federal Routing identification number that had not been used before.  After being caught and imprisoned in France, Sweden and United States, Frank Abagnale used his expertise and talents to improve the check banking system, help catch other criminals, work with the FBI, and start his own secure documents corporation.  In the back of the book is a question and answer section with the author where he reveals that the movie is 80% accurate.  Obvious you can not put a book covering 5 years into a 2+hour movie so some events were altered, and of course some events in the book were omitted from the movie.  I give this book my highest recommendation as a fun and enjoyable read.  I myself enjoyed all that much more knowing that this is a true story, written by the actual perpetrator, of his exploits as mostly a teenager.  Adults as well as teenagers will like this book. This is a an easy read and a fun book to read, I hope you enjoy it as much as me.  I'm also planning to read the author's other book, \\"The Art of the Steal\\".<br />Older reades will see some similarities in the true book/movie, \\"The Great Imposter\\" which starred Tony Curtis.	2003-03-09
US	50813924	RQL6C1T7U21ZV	0965291715	27087881	All About Escrow and Real Estate Closings: Or How to Buy the Brooklyn Bridge and Have the Last Laugh! (Complete Guide to Your Real Estate Closing)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	There is no other book with complete closing information	I read this fine book, that is so correctly titled.  This book is \\"All About Escrow and Real Estate Closing.\\"  Every aspect of the closing from pro-ration of taxes, title insurance, holding title, and closing statement are included in this book.  In addition there is an appendix which in 1 paragraph for each of the 50 states outlines the settlement procedures in each and every state.  There is also 10 pages of blank forms in the back of the book, which are suitable for copying and using.  The book is easy to read taking a complicated and foreign subject and breaking it down and explaining it.  It comes as no surprise that this book is used by real estate schools and professionals.  Every real estate professional should have a copy and read it as well as use it for reference.  If you ever had questions about a real estate closing, those questions are probably answered by this book.  If you are only ever going to buy one or two properties this book is going to be over kill, but if your plans include buying multiple properties and you are a real estate investor, then this book will be a helpful tool in your real estate toolbox.  <br />The illustrator is Dave Patton, who also did fine work in Leigh Robinson's excellent book \\"Landlording\\".<br />My only reservation is that some aspects of settlement are handled differently in different states and locales, that everything could not be covered in this book.  There is no standard for settlements in different states and some states use different documents.  Also some states have a simultaneous closing whereas others have the buyer and seller go to settle at different times.	2003-03-09
US	50813924	R1PDMCIPNGR9FO	1570713316	960914695	How to Negotiate Real Estate Contracts: For Buyers and Sellers : With Forms (ESSENTIAL GUIDE TO REAL ESTATE CONTRACTS)	Books	4	23	23	N	N	Real Estate Contracts fully expalined	I understand that Attorney Mark Warda has written over 60 books on real estate and the law, and this is just one of those books.  He dissects the real estate contract between the buyer and the seller going over each and every clause and explaining its meaning in layman's terms.<br />Also included in the book are 8 different forms. If you are represented by a competent and knowledgeable real estate attorney, then this book may not be necessary. But if you are buying and selling property without an attorney then this book is a must. The more property you buy and sell the more you need this book. On the other hand if you already have many settlements under your belt this book will not have many new ideas for you.<br />This book would most benefit the beginner or intermediate real estate investor. I also read another book by the same author on \\"Land Trusts\\" and got much more from that book.	2003-03-09
US	50813924	R1VF24V4LWD9XW	0471579351	40815697	How to Buy and Sell Apartment Buildings	Books	1	78	92	N	N	this is a  [Bad]  book about a [Bad] get rich scheme!	This book published in 1993 is one of the worst real estate books ever written.  It surprising that a book this bad has lasted this long.  Anybody who gives this book a good review is related to the author or seriously delusional.  Some real estate books are bad because the author is unfamiliar with the topic, or can not offer detailed real world advice from their theoretical perspective.  Believe it or not some real estate books are written by authors, who don't know what they're talking about, or tell a tale that has no basis in the practical real world.  Mr. Vollucci apparently has been an investor for 25 years, at least according to the book's cover. so from his years of experience, you would assume that he would write a good book.  You know what they say about assuming.  He also has taught a real estate seminar entitled \\"Three Moves to a Million.\\"  This is a catchy title!   The author states, \\"You too can become a millionaire starting with just $6,000, and you can do it in only three moves, if these moves consist of investing in midsize apartment buildings.\\"  He further defines midsize as 18 to 100 unit complexes.  The first move is to buy a \\"hypothetical apartment building for $600,000\\" in Phoenix. He hypothetically forms an investment group of 10 individuals who put up $6,000 EACH for the down payment.  Four years later the Phoenix property is \\"hypothetically\\" sold for $860,000.  And a second \\"hypothetical\\" 44 unit building was bought in Boston for $1,750,000, now with a group of 5 investors.  Apparently one \\"hypothetical\\" investor went home.   Two years later the Boston property is \\"hypothetically\\" sold for $2,325,000.  The third move was a 40 unit building in Seattle bought for $1,450,000 with no investing group.  The one investor takes the proceeds from the Boston building and buys the Seattle building by himself.  In 1990 the Seattle building was \\"hypothetically\\" sold for $2,267,043.  Therefore the author using a computer program and 10 years of hindsightturned a mythical $6,000, into a \\"hypothetical\\" $1million dollars in only 10 years.  <br />In the book are other facts that are suspect.  For example its written in the book \\"that seven out of ten millionaires made their money in real estate.\\"  Read \\"The Millionaire Next Door\\" and the Forbes 400 riches for the real scoop.  You'll find that the 7 out of 10 figure is grossly exaggerated by the author. <br />If you want to play a computer game and you want a million dollars \\"hypothetically\\", then this is the book for you.  Otherwise read \\"The Millionaire Next Door\\" By Thomas Stanley and William Danko for information on REAL life millionaires.  And for buying real estate apartments read William Nickerson's \\"How I Turned $1,000 into a Million in Real Estate in my spare time\\", which is not a computer simulation game.	2003-03-05
US	50813924	R33MYJQ4DEJKH8	078688777X	939146126	Get Clark Smart: The Ultimate Guide to Getting Rich From America's Money-Saving Expert	Books	3	22	29	N	N	A good overview of many consumer issues...	There are about 72 different topics discussed in this book from buying a house and car, to identity thief and timeshares.  Each topic is 3 or 4 pages long and this is an easy book to read.  If one topic doesn't interest you you can skip over it to the next.  Also this book can be used as a reference book.  the author apparently has a radio call in show where he answers consumer questions.  I have never heard the show apparently its not carried in our area.  So I had no preconceived notions about the author before reading the book.  The subtitle to the book is the \\"ultimate guide to getting rich from America's money saving expert.\\"  Clark Howard may be the country's money saving expert, but this book is not a guide to getting rich.  The subtitle is misleading and ironic since the author is crusading against the misleadings of consumers by various companies.  The information contained in the book is worth while, but the book is not a getting rich book.  There are plenty of web sites listed in the book and if one topic was of particular interest to you, further reasearch would be needed.<BR>There are many money savings tips in the book, but I didn't count them to see if there were \\"hundreds\\" as the book's cover claims.  The book is very informative, covers many diverse topics and is worth the price of less than $12 on Amazon.com, but I felt that the subtitle and cover claims are over the top.<BR>Overall its a 3.5	2003-03-02
US	50813924	R3NSPCCH8XQ5AO	0793127092	24849667	Real Estate Confronts Reality	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Good, but dated info on changing real estate industry	This 1998 book is good as far as it goes.  Interviews in the book date from 1997.  Today in the rapidly changing real estate field 5 or 6 years is a long time, perhaps too long.<BR>I thought that the book was primarily aimed at real estate agents and brokers.  There are lots of cautionary words and tones in the book basically saying the industry is changing and those participants ready, willing and able to change can adapt to the future of the real estate industry.  Those wishing to do business as usual are going to be left in the dust.  There's a chapter on the National Association of Realtors and whether they will survive or not.  There's a chapter on HFS, which now owns Century 21, Coldwell Banker, ERA, Cendant, and PHH. Is obviously a giant force in the real estate market place.  In addition there are chapters on consumers, tech, internet, and demographics.  Overall this is a good book but not an excellent book, suffering from the age of the book and the rapidly changing real estate/internet landscape.	2003-03-01
US	50813924	R149XJ5ALF6HXR	189378200X	596237369	The ABCs of Asset Protection	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good Material but much too short!	I liked the substance and idea of this 1998 edition of this book.  The concept of protecting your assets is only prudent action in today's litigious society.  William Bronchick, a Colorado Attorney and real estate investor subtitles his book \\"How to Shelter Your Assets from Lawsuits, Liability, and Financial Disaster.\\"  The text of the book is only 80 pages and is printed only on one side and double spaced.  The blank pages are NOT numbered, but none the less this is a small text.  There are appendices and other resources  <BR>In the back of the book, and there are also advertisements in the book for other Bronchick products.  Overall I liked the book, the author writes of avoiding lawsuits, personal liability, appearing broke, control don't own, limited liability companies and bulletproofing your protection.  These are all good ideas and I would have liked to see expansion of these topics.  This is a good book to start, but you're probably going to want to read other books, and talk to other attorneys to round out your knowledge of this crucial subject.	2003-03-01
US	50813924	R1XPSQ7CEOYSYY	0793144914	961102119	Flipping Properties: Generate Instant Cash Profits in Real Estate	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Flipping real estate made easy and legal	If you're interested in flipping real estate, or the quick buying and selling of property then this is the place to start.  Author Bronchick, a Colorado Attorney is an very qualified investor who draws on his experiences buying and selling property and that of his clients and associates.  Flipping has recently gotten notoriety from fraudulent activities of false appraisals and other fraudulent activities.  The Authors tell you how to work as a flipper and do it legally.  There is a glossary in the book as well as 5 appendices listig good deal checklist, sample ads, sample forms, state foreclosure guide, and internet sources.  The text of the book is 154 pages and the glossary/appendices are another 55 pages.  You may not find everything about flipping in this book, but this is the best place to start if you want to flip real estate, or even if your just curious to fid out more about the business.  I for one would have liked to see more depth and more information about flipping in this book.	2003-03-01
US	50813924	R2L9BPWV1TN6CP	0070330409	661183963	The New No-Nonsense Landlord: Building Wealth With Rental Properties	Books	3	10	10	N	N	A good book for the prospective landlord	This book was written in 1994 and may be viewed by some as being dated.  The author is a small real estate investor and tells of projects that he personally has been involved in as well as the project of other people he knows.  The stories are real and there are before and after photos in the book, which is quite uncommon for a book of this type.  There is a chapter on &quot;Success Stories&quot; that I particularily enjoyed.  There's a chapter of the &quot;Fixer-Upper&quot; which was also good.  Many of the other chapters about tenants and management were covered in other books with mcuh more depth.  &quot;Landlording&quot; by Leigh Robinson is an excellent book on the tenant and management side of the business and is much more comprehensive than this book.  This is a good book, but not a great book.  I appreciate the author's experience in rental properties and I liked to see the photos which help tell the story and make the examples very real.  This book does not have all the answers and if you expect that you will be disappointed.	2003-02-22
US	50813924	R21HRJHFLGSWX	0028636651	806221043	The Unofficial Guide to Real Estate Investing	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Comprehensive, and a Great Beginning....	This 368 pages book, not counting 63 pages of Appendices, is a very comprehensive book worthy of reading.  It is purposely written in easy to follow language and there is even a glossary of those terms that with which the reader might be unfamiliar.  In general I'm not a big fan of glossaries as it seems that many authors use the glossary as filler for the book.  That is not the case here.  In the margins are helpful tips, watch outs and money saver tips.  This is a good beginner or intermediate text, but experienced real estate investors will find this to be too elementary reading.  The text is comprehensive and can be used for further reference, as it does have an index.  The price is also right for this book at retail of $16.99 and is well worth the money spent.  At $11.89 on AMAZON.COM its a great bargain.  Besides the purchase of real estate, which many other books cover this book also gets into being a landlord, how to fix and upgrade a property and even whether you should rent to pet owners.  They say yes!  They recommend charhing extar security and extra rent to qualified pet owning tenants.  I would recommend that anyone contemplating real estate investing either as a part time avocation or a full time career to start with this book.  This is not the only book you'll want or need to read, but its a good first step.  this book doesn't have everything that you'll need but will start you on the right road.	2003-02-22
US	50813924	R86AE7QRYRA18	0471297860	398858582	Five Magic Paths to Making a Fortune in Real Estate	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Good Beginning Book, However	there is not enough meat on these bones for the experienced real estate investor. This 2000 book draws on the author's 30 years of real estate experience as an educator and consultant. His 5 paths are: Fixer-uppers, Lease/option, wholesale, buy and hold single family homes, as well as multifamily rentals. These 5 categories are by no means the ONLY paths in real estate, but they are the most common paths and the paths most frequently used by beginners. The book is 285 pages and is a wide broad look at real estate. The book is geared to the beginner and maybe the intermediate investor and would probably be too light, for the experienced inestor. However, somebody experienced in one of the 5 paths might enjoy and benefit from reading about the other paths, though light reading. There are so many topics discussed in the book, that many topics were not presented to the depth that I was looking for. There are case-studies in the book which are very helpful to illustrate the points the author is trying to make. In addition there are many examples using real dollar figures, which makes the understanding of the topic easier. But the vast number of topics covered dictates that the depth of each subject is limited. For example the chapter on Buy and Hold Single Family is 15 pages and the chapter on Buy and Hold multifamily is 14 pages. Compare this to the David Schumacher book \\"Buy and Hold\\" which is 306 pages. Now which book do you think covers the topic with more depth. This is a book that I'd would recommend to anybody, the advice given in this book is real, down to earth, and practical. This book is much better than many others, but will only scratch the surface for the serious investor. The depth given to each topic is not enough and will leave the serious, and hungry investor wanting more, but this is a good place to start.	2003-02-22
US	50813924	R2NIOWHT38F5X9	0793138086	40228232	The Real Estate Investor's Tax Guide : What Every Investor Needs	Books	5	48	48	N	N	Required Reading for every real estate investor	This Third Edition is a great book for all real estate investors, whether yoa are an agent or not.  In fact I think that is more valuable for the knowledgeable investor.   The author is a CPA and real estate broker, who has written a marvelous book relating the Federal Tax code to real estate applications.  There are chapters on Personal Residence Exclusion of $250,000/$500,000, Capital Gains, and Installment Sales.  you will find detail in this book that is not present in any other tax book for real estate investors.<br />There are 4 chapters on the Section 1031 Like Kind exchange alone.  There are also 4 chapters on the Passive Loss Rules.  In addition there are other chapters on Home Mortgage Deduction, Depreciation, and the Home Office.  The text is easy to read and very informative.  There are lots of Tips throughout all the chapters advising the reader of good things to do as well as inadvisable tactics.   Dealer Status is covered all too briefly in my opinion, as I would have liked to seen more on that subject.  I would also have liked to seen more on corporations and there is no mention of Limited Liability Companies.  But despite these shortcomings the book is excellent and covers the topics in good detail.  This is obviously a dry subject and reading the manuals and guidelines can sometimes give one a headache.  But with this book no aspirin is needed.  This book is a must for any serious real estate investor, whether you do your taxes yourself or hire a professional.  This book should be required reading before you get your real estate investor secret decoder ring.	2003-02-22
US	50813924	R1NKA9BPCQJN5T	068485550X	808743469	The Real Estate Game: The Intelligent Guide To Decisionmaking And Investment	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Sophisticated Yet Interesting Real Estate book	Harvard Business School Professor and real estate investor William Poorvu has written a book about real estate is far above most real estate books.  This book is nowhere near the run of the mill generic real estate book that tries to tell everything about real estate to people who don't have a clue.  \\"The Real Estate Game\\" is a sophisticated commercial real estate book written by a real estate insider.  This is not a book about buying your first house with no down payment.  <br />What this is, is a book about commercial real estate projects from concept, commitment, development, operations, and harvest.  The authors bring a behind the scenes and insiders' approach to commercial development.  He lays it out in the form of a game with properties, capital markets, players and external environment.  One of the stories in the book is that of Bill Zeckendorf's classic assemblage of Swift slaughterhouses into the United Nations property and vicinity.  Included in the book is the authors' commercial due diligence checklist.  This book would be most interesting to a person involved in commercial real estate, someone interested in commercial real estate or someone interested in the business of commercial real estate.  I think that this is the kind of book that you can refer back to time and time again.  There is a lot of information in this book and it may even be a book that you will want to read more than once.  It has a depth, and quality of information contained far superior to the average mass media real estate book without the dryness of a real estate textbook	2003-02-09
US	50813924	ROHNPPAIFPEAZ	0970116209	65317593	Buy and Hold: 7 Steps to a Real Estate Fortune	Books	5	37	39	N	N	Buy and Hold has my HIGHEST recommendation!	This is one of the best real estate books ever written.  I have read over 200 books on the subject of real estate and this one is in my top ten.  I also read the earlier 1992 version called \\"The Buy & Hold Real Estate Strategy\\" which sometimes sells for hundreds of dollars.  The later 2000 version is just as good if not better and costs ... on Amazon.  It would be a bargain at many times that price!  Today the author, David T. Schumacher, Ph.D owns approximately 66 units worth about $15 million.  While he owns his property in Hermosa Beach and Orange County, California, the principles apply to all areas of the country.  He has certainly benefited by the great appreciation rates in California, and while other areas have not appreciated as much, given a long enough period appreciation will build your real estate wealth.  He started buying Hermosa Beach in 1960, so he has had the luxury of 40 years or nearly as many years of appreciation on some building.<br />He shares the real estate stories of himself, his brother, mother and father as well as other friends and associates.  This vast wealth of 40+ years of real estate experience comes through in Dr. Schumacher's books.  He relates about a real estate investment that his parents made in 1939, buying a single family house with a garage and apartment for $7,000 with $500 down.  And his first real estate purchase on his own in 1956 of a 4 unit building in Hollywood for $20,000 with $1,000 down.  Some people might look at these deals done long ago as a negative and not relevant to today.  That is just not so.  The author is still an active investor and lecturer today and the principles of his book make sense now.  He had worked as a real estate appraiser for many years and relays in his book how to value a property.  In this book his 7 step approach includes: <br />1. Finding the Location<BR>2. Buy<BR>3. Long-term Financing<BR>4. Hold for 20 years<BR>5. Appreciation<BR>6. Sell<BR>7. Attain Your Fortune<br />Schumacher isstrongly against short term financing and balloon notes, feeling that they are time bomb waiting to exploded for the investor.  He prefers long term financing both from conventional institutions as well as owner financing.  He writes in his book about making personal sacrifices to ensure the comfort of his tenants as well as at earlier times<BR>to make up for negative cash flow.  He is willing to accept a negative cash flow if the property is a sound property located in a growth area.  <br />One of his strong principles is to figure out what the value will be in 20 years.  By studying government planning, building trends, and growth patterns, he feels that you can become proficient in determining what areas will have growth in 20 years and which areas will not.<br />The author writes that he likes to charge maybe 10% below the market rent to attract and keep the best tenants.  He states that a vacancy is better than a bad tenant.  His mother would bend over backwards for her tenants and would even lower the rent to keep a tenant.  He doesn't do a lot of re-financing and prefers to keep existing financing in place. <BR>He advocates not paying off a mortgage early for example.  <br />In his book he advocates buying rental properties with a good prospect of future growth.<BR>And while he suggests trying to negotiate the most favorable price, that is not the biggest issue.  Schumacher relates of negotiating on one property for 9 months, so he is not suggesting buying at any price.   However, when you have a long term prospective of 20 years or more, the price you pay is not that large an issue.  If you pay $105,000 instead of $100,000, it won't make any difference in 20 years if the property is now worth $400,000.  Or in the case of Schumacher, he bought a six unit in Hermosa Beach in 1960 for $85,000 with $3,000 down, that is now worth more than $1million.  Buy and never sell, or seldom sell is one technique that this book explores in detail and that you can learn togrow wealth over a long term.  This is not get rich quick, but more get rich slow.  In a way this book reminds me of William Nickerson's \\"How I turned $1,000 into $5 Million in Real Estate in my Spare Time\\", which just might be the first if not the best real estate book.  (Nickerson's book is out of print and can cost hundreds of dollars.) I highly recommend both of these books.	2003-02-09
US	50813924	RO9F23RPOZ14D	0793158737	325122411	The Landlord's Kit: A Complete Set of Ready-To-Use Forms, Letters, and Notices to Increase Profits, Take Control, and Eliminate the Hassle	Books	4	16	17	N	N	The book is filled with rental forms	Jeffrey Taylor aka, Mr. Landlord is an exciting and dynamic speaker in person and has a wealth of practical and hands on information about being a landlord from his 20 years of experience.  But to be honest I enjoyed Leigh Robinson's book &quot;Landlording&quot;  much more.  I'd still recommend that you buy this book but additonally that you buy the Robinson book too.  Taylor has about 50 helpful tips in his book and will benifit the current landlord or an aspiring landlord.  He has forms in the book that you will never have heard about or seen before.  Some of these forms may not be applicable to your rental situation, but they are there for you to decide. I have seen Mr. Taylor in person and he is an exciting speaker, so I'm a little disappointed in the text of the book.  I would rather see more Mr. Landlord, but maybe there's a second book in the offing.  The author leaves you wanting more, which is not a bad thing.	2003-02-03
US	50813924	R30PMA96J894LA	0930031989	762920383	Mortgage-Free!: Radical Strategies for Home Ownership (Real Goods Solar Living Book)	Books	3	113	119	N	N	Could you live in a 12x16 foot shed?	Find the answer to that burning question in this book,  \\"Mortgage Free\\" by Rob Roy.  I'm not exactly sure what I expected, but my expectations were more along the lines of a real estate or finance book.  The title of the book threw me. In reality this is more of a book about building your own house at a low cost, therefore not needing to get a mortgage and a whole lifestyle of low cost living and low impact on the earth.  Paul Terhorst's book \\"Cashing in on the American Dream\\" is also about living without a mortgage but from a totally different perspective.   Here the author Rob Roy, which by the way is a great name, writes about keeping your house small and simple to reduce the costs.  He writes of his own experience of lving in a temporary shelter before you build your own house.   In his case this was a 12x16 foot shed.  He even tells of using printer's plates as roofing material.  Not many wifes and kids are going to want to live in a 12x16 shed.  The author is a frugal, and conservative environmentalist and writes of that lifestyle.   He lives on $5,000 a year of his savings and does not work at a job per se.  The author is frugal, cheap, or what ever you want to call it and apparently it works for him and his family.  Will it work for everybody, I think not.  His job is building houses and writing about it.  I did enjoy the book and it was easy to read.  It was a learning experience for me and a few of the ideas in the book might be useful, but I'm not ready to sever the electric grid line just yet.  There is a very nice appendix in the book with building schools listed as well as an extensive bibliography.  This is the first book that I've read of the author, but I would consider others.  `I'd also recommend the Les Shur book \\"Finding Country Properties\\", the Rlaph Turner book and the Joe Dominquez and Vicki Robin book, \\"Your Money or your life\\".  If you liked \\"Mother Earth News\\" and \\"Whole Earth Catalog\\" you'll probably enjoy this book also.  On the other hand if you drive a Hummer and live in suburbia with your 2.5 kids, this might not be your cup of tea.	2003-01-29
US	50813924	R2RUL9A8WMP8A6	1888699019	580764223	Land Trusts for Privacy & Profit	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Land Trusts made simple for the layman	This 2002 book is up to date with a wealth of information concerning land trusts.  Written by a Florida Attorney with 20 years experience, and author of 60 books, this book is thorough and comprehensive.  One of the best part of the book is Appendix A which has a page for each of the fifty states as well as Washington, District of Columbia detailing the requirements by state and even court cases dealing with trusts in that state.  There is also another Appendix B which has all the forms needed for a trust from deeds, to co-trustee etc.  In all there are 27 forms.  There is also a bibliography and a list of court cases applying to trusts.  And there is the all importance, for easy reference, index at the back of the book.  The text part of the book is 124 pages covering set-up, benefits, operations, litigation, financing, buying, selling, taxes Federal and state, security laws, and the pitfalls/drawbacks/concerns of land trusts.  This is the most complete text on the subject that is geared to the layman non-attorney.  However, the author recommends and I concur, that you should consult with a local, knowledgeable attorney before jumping into a land trust.	2003-01-26
US	50813924	R2U7MYHPKOQ6CD	0932956254	973309136	Landlording: A Handymanual for Scrupulous Landlords and Landladies Who Do It Themselves	Books	5	141	143	N	N	The absolute BEST, accept NO substitute!	I just finished reading the 9th edition of Leigh Robinsons's super, excellent, definitive tome on being a Landlord or Landlady.   I had bought and read his 3rd edition in 1981 and found that to be excellent.  I have used the Rental Application form from that book hundred's if not thousands of times.  That earlier edition is worn out the back is broken and the pages are dog eared.  I was long over due for a new copy.  There are many, many updates from the earlier version, and the book has grown from 270 pages to 494 pages!  The latest edition has over 60 forms made and revised over the years by the author, a hand-on landlord himself.<BR> <BR>This book is a tremendous value, filled to the gills and them some with useful, practical, down to earth advice from somebody who actually is a landlord.  Leigh Robinson knows his stuff, there is no question about it.  If you are currently a landlord/lady then you should run, or trot to your keyboard and order this book from Amazon.com.  If you think you might want to become a landlord/lady then this book is recommended for you also.<br />One example contained in the book is having escrow accounts for the tenant's security deposits.  I have personally used this for years even though not required by state law.  The bank I use does not charge me anything to set up the escrow account with a separate sub-account for each tenant.  Even people sharing one place have a separate individual sub-account with interest accruing to the tenant.  Another example from the book is the landlord/lady's car.  You can drive your Mercedes, Porsche, or BMW, just not to your rental properties.   Personally I like a 1982 Cordoba, but a beat up car or pickup truck will do.  The reason for this is many tenants think that all of their rent ends up in the landlord/lady's pocket.  They forget about mortgage, taxes, insurance, utilities, repairs, supplies, etc.  <br />The author recommends that no appliances be furnished.  Usually for houses we don't provide any appliances except ranges, but supply refrigerators for apartments.  Very rarely would we supply washer, dryer, air conditioners, etc.  Leave that to the tenants, this reduces repair bills and responsibility.  One owner that I talked to had a refrigerator fail and the tenant claimed that the owner was responsible for spoiled food.<BR>Since then that landlord does not provide any tenant with a refrigerator, and therefore is not responsible if the appliance breaks or for food spoiled. <br />The author notes that 50% of tenants have pets and discusses at length the pros and cons of renting to the pet's owner.  Coin operated laundry is also discussed with the author`s recommendation being that you only provide if there are 16 people or 12 bedrooms in the building.  For smaller building than that it is not feasible to provide that to tenants.  Leigh Robinson's recommendation on page 273 for wording on a section 8 lease could save thousands of dollars.  In my opinion this book is invaluable and worth many more times the asking price.  There is no better book on \\"Landlording\\" and I think I've read most of them.  Buy it, enjoy it, use it, and profit from it.	2003-01-26
US	50813924	R203VC9KUGXSYL	0553052896	361637732	Cashing in on the American Dream: How to Retire at 35	Books	5	34	35	N	N	This book is The Best,  A  dream realized	I know this book is out of print but if you get an opportunity to buy or read this book I would recommend it.  And maybe, just maybe the author will update the book for this new century.  I certainly hope so.  \\"Cashing in on the American Dream\\" the title says it all, financial independence and early retirement.<BR>It may not be for everybody, but it appeals to many.<br />This book is a little dated when it refers to 8% CDs, but the concept is one which is timeless.  The author, Paul Terhorst was featured in \\"Money\\" magazine several times and has a web site [...]  The author retired from his CPA job at KPMG to live the life of world travel and financial freedom.  When he retired in 1984 he was making in excess of $125,000 a year.  The concept works best where you have a high priced personal residence in a hot real estate market.  The premise is that you sell your high priced house and your status car.  Then you take the proceeds and invest it in a SAFE, CONSERVATIVE investment living off the interest and never touch the principle.  You move to a lower priced area, either in the US or outside.  A friend of mine spends much of his time in Costa Rica and tells me that one can still live there for $10,000 to $20,000 a year.  I have been to Lake Chapala in Mexico where many Americans live a comfortable low cost life in a moderate temperate climate.  A major consideration is health insurance and health care.  Some people will be able to get continued coverage from their former employers or the employer of their spouse.  For many people this does not work.  <br />One of the basic concepts of the book is that you have money to begin with.  If you have no money this process just won't work.  But the author does have a chapter entitled \\"It takes less money than you think\\".  People living in coastal/metropolitan US cities are used to high priced houses costing $500,000 and up.  And this is not just Bill Gates type mansions.  Regular middle class houses can cost that much in parts of the US.  But at the exact same time there are places where houses are extraordinary inexpensive.  In rural areas outside the commuting area of the big cities there are houses that sell for $25,000.<br />Just think about how much less you could live on if you didn't have a huge mortgage payment and a huge car payment.  Terhorst talks about either not having a car or having a \\"station\\" car.  That would be the kind of car that you could leave parked at the train station and have no worries about dents. Scratches, and scraps.  There are plenty of older, some with low mileage cars around for low prices.  Something like a Chevy Station wagon from 15 years ago or a Chrysler Cordoba.  The purpose of the these cars is not to imress but just your basic cheap transportation.  And if the repair bill gets too high you sell the car and buy another cheap car to replace it.<br />According to the author he has moved out of CDs when the interest rates fell and has a more traditional portfolio of low costs index funds.  While living in Argentina him and his wife had an HMO, but currently are self insured and avail themselves of cheaper medical care outside of the US.  And while there are places where $50 a day doesn't cut anymore like Paris, the author is still able to live with that self imposed budget in many places. <br />The author writes about a life of traveling to different places around the world but always living on $50 a day.  That figure may need to be adjusted for inflation.  This book provides one blueprint for independence that though dated should be thought provoking in the reader and your dreams and creative juices flowing.  By looking at the author's website you can get a current update on their travels.  In January 2003 they were in Bangkok, photos on website.  This is a favorite book fo mine along with \\"Your Money or Your Like\\" by Joe Dominquez and Vicki Robin.	2003-01-20
US	50813924	R2BPTOO8X1UIVB	0761513116	308717987	The Wealthy Barber, Updated 3rd Edition: Everyone's Commonsense Guide to Becoming Financially Independent	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A simple financial Parable and Primer	\\"The Wealthy Barber\\" is a financial primer written in the form of a fictional story with characters who grow in the area of financial management and independence. I would describe it as sort of a financial parable. There is a lesson to be learned here and instead of telling the lessons in either a boring, or too-technical book, this author has chosen and woven a fictional story with a lesson or a parable.  Cathy, Tom and Dave get together with the local barber, Roy who shares his years of wisdom. There are chapters in the book involving wills, life insurance, retirement planning, personal residence, saving, investments and income tax. The lessons are basic and conservative. No day trading here or get rich quick schemes. Seasoned investors will probably find this book too elementary and simplistic. But some knowledgeable investors might find it to be a refreshing, thought provoking, simple overview. The primary reader target is really the novice or the uninformed. For this group I would heartily recommend the book. I would even recommend it for teenagers curious about investing and financial subjects. There are so many people that don't have a financial clue, for them this book would be excellent. The message is easy to read, simple and easy to follow. After reading this book an excellent follow on would be \\"The Millionaire Next Door\\" which expands some of the same themes of conservative saving and investing being a path to financial security, independence and a comfortable retirement. The book does not have an index, which I consider a shortcoming for the reader's future reference. I would also recommend as a companion read \\"The Only Investment Guide You'll Ever Need\\" by Andrew Tobias.	2003-01-20
US	50813924	R27J4IOOIY4C39	0743240863	581352398	American: Beyond Our Grandest Notions	Books	5	5	9	N	N	America and Americans at their best	What makes America the greatest country and Americans the greatest people?  Chris Matthews of Hardball fame takes those attributes and concepts of Americans from Abraham Lincoln to Jerrerson Smith (of Mr smith goes to Washington movie).  There are real life people and fictional characters like Bogie's Rick Blaine from Casablanca.  What makes America what it is?  and how are we unique in the world?  In this compelling and thought provoking story Chris Matthews tells us about ourselves.  In this world particularily since 9-11, the warm feelings of Patriotism are appreciated.  If I said this was a history lesson, perhaps a lot of people would be turned off.  but this book is better than that its a history books that's not dull or boring and gives us, dare I say, a historical prespective without being the dull and boring &quot;H&quot; word.	2003-01-19
US	50813924	R29CJ46GWCIB3O	0684862352	819251496	Now, Let Me Tell You What I Really Think	Books	4	1	2	N	N	TV's Hardball expanded and in print form	Chris Matthews tells of his background growing up in Philadelphia<BR>as part of the boomer generation.  He presents his opinions of the current state of the American politic from a combination of a historical prespective and an American movie prespective.  The movies are being held out as representing what American think.  Ironically in the same week I also read George Carlin's book, Dennis Miller's book and Bill O'Reilley's.  What do all these books have in common?  AS white, Catholic, eastern, urban, baby boomers, they have some similarilties in their background and do share some of the same thoughts.  Matthews' book is easy to read and not very long.  If you like Hardball, you'll love this book.  If you hate Hardball, forget about it.  And if you're somewhere in between give it a read.	2003-01-19
US	50813924	R38BBO3UWSWOX5	0964438011	915655382	Perpetual Income: How-to Generate Cash Flow from Low-End House Investments	Books	5	46	46	N	N	Perpetual income NOT limited to low end houses	\\"Perpetual Income\\" by Bryan Wittenmyer is an excellent second book written by the Reading, Pa. native.  He has done the investing in low end rental houses that he writes about in his book.  He shares his experiences, observations, techniques, and secrets in an easy to read 183 page book.  His vehicle of choice is low end houses to generate that perpetual income promised in the book's title.  But his rich background of nearly 20 years can easily be applied to rental houses in all price ranges,  He writes about favoring houses with 3 or 4 bedrooms to attract and keep family tenants.  Gas heat is his favorite heat choice, for example, because it is the cheapest.  And even when the tenants are paying the utilities, \\"cheap utilities mean happy tenants, which means less turnover.\\"  Conversely electric baseboard heat while being the cheapest to install is the most expensive to operate.  Many a tenant has moved from an electrically heated unit because of the high monthly costs.  Lack of vacancy is a major contributor to the success of rental houses.  Bryan also extols the virtues of exteriors of brick, stone or cement saying \\"the more the better.\\"  <br />Tenant selection, repairs, revenue collection are other topics discussed in this book.  The author writes of the pitfalls as well as the rewards without sugar coating the benefits of real estate.  This is not a get rich quick scheme, though there is a chapter on his plan to have a house free and clear in 60 months.  There are topics discussed in this book such as water, sewer and property tax traps, that are seldom if ever written about in other real estate investment books.  He has obviously learned much about rental houses and shares his experiences with the readers.  He discusses in the book buying houses with defective titles, and getting free carpet.   I recommend this book as well as the 2 others written by Mr. Wittenmyer.  ...I know that he will answer questions about his books through his web site.	2003-01-18
US	50813924	R1JSC7J3L8SZSM	096443802X	395019817	Real Estate Business and Investment Opportunities: The Complete Guide to Starting a High-Profit Business	Books	5	29	30	N	N	WOW, This book is jammed packed with real estate ideas	This 2002 book is the latest of Bryan Wittenmyer's three books and it is the best.  I recommend all three, but this one is my favorite.  For one, this book appears to be professionally edited and comes with an index, unlike his previous two endeavors.<br />At 370 pages this is also his longest book and it is jam packed with over 40 real estate business plans.  Included are such far reaching opportunities as title examiner, cell phone tower lease, real estate paper, publishing, broker, land investor and many more..  He provides the business model and the tools and skills required for these diverse paths.  I expect that many of them are paths taken by the author and some close associates. If you can't find a real estate opportunity in this book, there probably isn't one for you.  Mobiles homes, real estate consultant, professional management, home inspection, are just some of the topics in this book..  There are chapters on marketing, business tips and secrets and the 10 stupid things business owners do.  The amount of good information contained in this book is just overwhelming.  The author has a website ... and I know he'll answer your questions about the books as he has answered mine.  Some of the things that I like about Bryan Wittenmyer's books is that there is no fluff, he has done much of the things that he writes about, and that he presents his material in an easy to read, informative, and intelligent manner added details missed in other books and telling you the pluses and the minuses.	2003-01-18
US	50813924	R9TLRSZHL4EYS	0471151505	830752539	How to Invest in Condominiums: The Low-Risk Option for Long-Term Cash Flow	Books	4	25	26	N	N	Interesting premise, well written, but not perfect....	I enjoyed Andris Virsnieks' book very much.  The author writes in an informative, intelligent and down to earth style.  His premise is buy brand new condos as investment rental properties, and hire a professional management company to deal with the tenants and the day to day grind.  I like it.  I like the premise.  I like the low involvement approach, and I'm convinced that the author did what he said he did.  As opposed to some OTHER real estate authors whose books belong in the fiction section.  New buildings should have fewer physical problems and many of those will/should be taken care of by the builder/developer.  The author has been sucessful using his techniques and for that I applaud him.  <br />There were a few things that I was less than satified with the book.  The author only bought 7 or 8 condos and the last one was in 1986.  His condo purchases were only in the Seattle, Washington area and some of his experiences and therefore conclusions may not be universal.  And lastly though the book was published in 2001, it appears that much of the book was written in 1997 and many of the statistics end in 1996.  A re-edited version NOT referring to the last stock market downturn as being in 1987 would have been appreciated.<br />I've owned condominiums myself and currently still own condos.  I can attest to the truth and wisdom in Mr. Virsnieks' book.  He has a plan, he executes that plan, and has written good accounting of his personal path to a steady income, very little hassle and time, as well as early retirement.  This is not a get rich quick book, and the author does not have the bluster of late night informercials;  but this is a clear worthwhile read.	2003-01-17
US	50813924	R1YBNBNA3HNX35	0471329347	712650688	Goldmining in Foreclosure Properties	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Foreclosure is not an easy subject, but this is a keeper...	George Achenbach, has written other real estate books under the names Val Cabot and Lee Crown.  He has been a builder of 7,000 houses and a buyer of foreclosed properties.  He tells of his sucesses as well as his unsucessful ventures into the foreclosure world.  His book has pictures of and descriptions of the various foreclosure cases  with which he has been involved.  His book is written from the prespective of somebody who actually worked foreclosures for many years.  This is not the easiest area of real estate investment to work, but through deligence and perserverance the rewards can be extremely lucrative.  There are other books on foreclosure, but I can't think of any that are as good.  Over 50,000 copies of this book have been sold and with good reason.  There are a lot of PRETENDERS in the foreclosure field with books and course that have high promises and little substance.  George Auchenbach is the REAL Deal.  He's done foreclosure investing for many years and has written an easy to read layman book on foreclosure.  <BR>My only criticism is that some aspects are dated.  The cases in the book stretch back over the 30+ year career of the author and therefore some of the dollar amounts and the years of the transactions are old.  However the principles and lessons learned from the author's experiences are timeless.  This is best book on foreclosure that I've read, but I'm still looking for something better, that perfect book.   If I could I would have rated it 4.5 stars.  I recommend this book to anyone interested in buying foreclosure real estate.	2003-01-17
US	50813924	R1TC5RAT6YHZHA	0759671605	897769781	What Your Bank Doesn't Want You to Know . . .: . . .about Where to Invest Your Money	Books	1	57	61	N	N	Poor as a BOOK, ok as a pamphlet!	I was extremely disappointed with this \\"BOOK\\".  Page 29 to 53 consists of a glossary.  If I wanted a real estate glossary, I'd buy one.  Oh, yeah, I did buy one, years ago.  Page 55 to 107 is sample forms.  Again if I wanted a real estate forms book I'd buy one.  Oh yeah....  Page 109 and 4 lines on page 110 is the \\"closing\\".  Page 111 to page 128 is an Appendix.  Page 129 to 134 is additional reading and business services.  Page 135 & 136 is the author's biography.  So where the heck is the book?<br />The \\"book\\" is pages 1 to 27.  Page 28 is blank.  The information presented is done so by a professional author, who admits to just learning about Tax Certificates herself from a client.  Well maybe the client could write a better \\"book\\".  I know I could. <br />There are much better books available on the subject including<BR>Moskowitz's 16% Solution, as well as Lin Stone's book, Thomas Hendrick's book and several others.<br />DON'T waste your money on this slim little fluff of 27 pages that has the audacity to call itself a \\"book\\".  I feel ripped off and wish the author would give me my money back!	2003-01-16
US	50813924	R39EGBSADWRP23	0312252501	165161815	How to Be Invisible: A Step-By-Step Guide To Protecting Your Assets, Your Identity, And Your Life	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Buy the BEST, forget the rest...	and this book by J. J. Luna is the best!  He talks of legal, at home in USA, ways of protecting yourself and your privacy.  Forget offshore, you can achieve the freedom at home with anonomous privacy.  There are just enough, or prehaps too many people out there to avoid;  people that can harm you.  Mr. Luna's book details ways to help yourself and most of the things that he suggests are easy to do and relatively low cost.  Privacy is not only for zillionaires but also regular ordinary people.  I've read his book twice now, it was even better the second time.  And sorry but the other authors in the field are at least a notch below MR. Lina.  Thank you, Mr. Luna, I can't wait for more of your words of wisdom.	2001-04-17
US	50813924	R19AFY8QPU1PSR	1882877039	988381943	Streetwise Investing in Rental Housing: A Detailed Strategy for Financial Independence (The Panoply Press Real Estate Series)	Books	5	38	39	N	N	The author has been there, and done that...	H. Roger Neal quit his job in Columbus, Ohio as a sewer inspector to become a full time real estate investor.  He has done it, he has been there and offers some excellent advice, that applies to not only the low income  or lower middle income duplexes in which Neal specializes.  He primarily  buys these duplexes for the income stream, but does also buy other  properties to flip as well as single family houses.  He recommends that you  replace the roof and the furnace when you buy a property as a preventive  maintenance procedure.  I have never done that and have furnaces that  though not new have lasted up to 20 or more years after buying the  building.  He also recommends that you replace slate roofs, which I would  rather repair and replace individual slates or nails.  He recommends doing  more than the minimal to get by and has good suggestions like replacing the  toilet flapper every time a tenant moves out.  They wear out eventually  anyway, they cost next to nothing and save water and a service call later.   He recommends covering porch decks with plywood as a reasonable priced  alternative; I would only add indoor outdoor carpet glued down.  Most of  his other advice is top drawer and comes from the school of hard knocks.   He's practical and realistic which many other real estate authors lack.   Some authors clearly have not done half of the things they propose or claim  in their books.  That is NOT the case with Neal who has done it all.  I'd  recommend this book to both novice and expert.  This book has it all over  the late night infomercial people and cost a fraction.  So what are you  waiting for, buy this book from Amazon.com.  Neal didn't pay me, I'm not  related to him and have never even met him, but his book is a keeper!	1999-12-31
US	50813924	R10CQNBXT1SY9P	0966693272	659797661	How to Buy Land Cheap: 5th Edition	Books	4	72	76	N	N	Informative, Easy to Read, But Too Brief	With only 124 pages not counting the glossary and several lists and white space, this is one of the easiest books to read.  There is good information, but the depth applied to each subject is not enough.  The  chapter on Canadian land was different and not commonly written about,  especially in the states.  The author whets your appetite and leaves your  wanting more. And that was my slight disappointment with &quot;How to Buy  Land Cheap&quot;.  I have seen land bought for $1 and a house bought for  $50 (including the land), so I know that what Mr. Preston write of is not  only possible but true.  Every word is believable and there is no fluff,  boasting or exaggeration in this book.  The author is not blowing his own  horn or trying to sell other products.  Although refreshing and insightful,  this book is a primer and geared for the beginner.  And since the 50 states  have 50 different laws and rules, some of the information may not be the  case in some states.  I liked the book and the price is reasonable but I  just felt that the book was too short.  More advanced readers will find the  lack of depth boring and superficial.  This Fifth Edition text has  obviously been updated and the author is correct in stating that things  change and bargain real estate purchase methods change.  Just as  homesteading is no longer a viable option so has the RTC (Resolution Trust  Corp.) gone away.  The suggestion of using the United National catalog is  one that I had used myself as a source of regional information at a cheap  cost.  I've said it before, but buying land sight unseen in the era of  toxic waste dumps, wetlands, under ground storage tanks, and all the other  natural and man made diasters is foolhardy.  Even a trash pile on a farm  has been known to contain empty containers of weed killer or insecticide  that are toxic.  The author is correct in stressing that you do your  research. I recommend this book but not only to beginners and with the  caveat that it doesn't cover the topics to the depths that I would have  liked.  This book started as a phamphlet, today it is either a long  phamphlet or a short book.  I applaud the authors reference publication  lists as so many authors don't share their sources.  Mr. Preston write in a  down to earth style, easily understood giving the reader the feeling that  he knows his subject and has done it himself. His title is excellent and  the good book could have been excellent with more details, more depth, and  more stories of sucess.'t cover the topics to the depths that I would have  liked.  This book started as a phamphlet, today it is either a long  phamphlet or a short book.  I applaud the authors reference publication  lists as so many authors don't share their sources.  Mr. Preston write in a  down to earth style, easily understood giving the reader the feeling that  he knows his subject and has done it himself. His title is excellent and  the good book could have been excellent with more details, more depth, and  more stories of sucess.	1999-11-19
US	50813924	R3MRJTPREG4T2K	0966339304	863108398	How To Buy Land At Tax Sales	Books	4	109	109	N	N	Informative &amp; Easy to Read, Rare Tax Sales Tome	I just read Lin Stone's delightful and wonderful book on the subject of tax sales.  It was very interesting, though somewhat light reading that was also informative.  It left me wanting more, but unfortunately that more  does not exist.  The subject of Tax Sales is given only minimal coverage by  most real estate authors.  And for good reason, it is a difficult subject  where 50 different states have 50 different tax sale laws.  Additionally  most authors know little or nothing about the subject.  Do the liens  transfer with the property? What is the period of owner redemption?  Tax  Sales are probably the most treacherous form of real estate investment.   Seller disclosures, consumer protection and other statutory safeguards for  the real estate buyer just plain do NOT exist in the tax sale arena.  You  could end up buying a toxic waste dump, a cliff, a wetland, a tiny sliver  of land, a flood plain, a landlocked parcel or even underwater property at  tax sales.  I've seen all of the above at tax sale.  Nobody will tell you  about the property shortcomings, only your own research can overcome those  obstacles.  Most of the tax sale properties are junk; many are worthless or  have expensive problems like bad title; you have to distinguish the gems or  at least the diamond in the rough.   There are only two other books, by  Hendricks and Moskowitz, on tax sales that are even worth reading.  If  you're serious read all three.  Lin Stone tells a tale that is easy to  read, but is somewhat lacking in depth.  Big print and lots of white space  make the book seem bigger than it really is.  Stone does have chapters on  internet and adverse possession that are unique, fun and very interesting.   But chapters on Fannie Mae, Hud, VA, etc. are out of place, unnecessary,  and filler.  The chapters on finding the properties was enlightening.  The  chapter on buying a house was much to short as Stone concentrates on land.   In the back of the book the list of states does not include all 50,  obviously a conscious omission by the author. All and all the book was  informative, offered insight that only an experience tax sale buyer/author  can offer.  It would be an excellent choice for beginners, but would  probably be too shallow for the experienced tax sale buyer.  Also some of  the points made are not universal to different state tax sales.  As I said  earlier it is a difficult subject because of the vast difference of state  law.  This book is a beginning but by no means assume expertise after  reading.  Lin Stone's book will help, but be careful out there!	1999-11-17
US	50813924	R19R7O50AHD1IS	0761109609	898431671	How to Sell Your Home in 5 Days: Second Edition	Books	5	29	32	N	N	Original, unique, interesting and profitable	We bought and read the Effros book, it is unique.  I have read probably 200 real estate books and his 5 day method is different and effective.  You have to get over the mental block of starting off low in your asking price.  We modified the technique to serve our purposes.  We employed a MAI (Member  of Appraisal Institute) appraisal done on the property.  After physically  preparing the house by painting, cleaning, and some new flooring, ads were  placed in the newspaper.  We received offers above asking price and settled  within 30 days.  Everybody was happy.  We have William Effros to thank for  the unique idea, and ispiration of his book for our quick sale above asking  price.  Thank you, sir.	1999-11-17
US	50813924	RXKLQ11ZNBSPE	1892495007	134132667	Buying a Manufactured Home: How to Get the Most Bang for Your Buck in Today's Housing Market (Home Resources Series)	Books	4	57	59	N	N	Insider reveals Secrets of Manufactured Home Dealers	Kevin Burnside does a good job of covering the comprehensive subject of &quot;Manufactured Housing&quot;; what we used to call mobile homes.  He reveals the secrets of the dealers and arms the buyer with the tools needed  to make a good deal and avoid the scams of high pressure salesmen.  The  author also details the best options and features to order along with those  features to decline.  He reveals the type of construction that is desired  and the type of contruction that is not desired.  He includes real life  dollar figures to guide the prospective buyer and provides the needed help  particularily for first time home buyers who lack the knowledge and  experience to distinguish between a good price and a bad price.  This book  is long overdue and brings the author's expertise to the table.  There has  been much written on car values and how to get a good deal on a new car.   This book is one of the few written for mobile home/manufactured home  buyers.  I recommend this book to anyone looking to buy a new factory built  home.  I would have liked to seen the &quot;Consumer Reports&quot; article  reprinted in the book instead of merely mentioned; and I would have liked  some attention to used or older homes not just new homes.  Perhaps that  will be Mr. Burnside's next book?	1999-11-16
US	50813924	RDJIOOULQCWYA	0945959524	850604883	Country Property Dirt Cheap: How I Found My Piece of Inexpensive Rural Land...Plus My Adventures with a $300 Junk Antique Tractor	Books	5	45	47	N	N	Fun, easy to read, First Person Quest for CHEAP LAND	I just got the book yesterday from Amazon.com and read it cover to cover.  In a non technical easy to read first person account, the author tells his tale of CHEAP LAND quest.  The boyhood dreams of a small quiet. peaceful  place in the country that is low maintenance and CHEAP is not the authors  alone.  Others myself included have had similar fantasies.  The book reads  like a novel, not a tech manual.  Besides being easy reading the book is  informative and worth the price.  Its light and introductory and may not  satisfy the more advanced and professional reader.  The techniques are  sound and can be expanded to suit your individual needs. The chapters on  buying a cheap tractor and the chapter on building moving are both  interesting and different from other country real estate books.  One old  time farmer told me the tale of buying 100 acres for $6,000 and then buying  a tractor for another $6,000.  Years later with the appreciation of land he  lamented that he had bought that tractor instead of a 200 acre farm!  Land  is such a thrilling and basically fulfilling purchase.  It has the lasting  power of no other purchase, and the appreciation potential of few other  investments.  It may not make you as rich as Microsoft stock, but there is  a strange spiritual satisfying feeling attahced to a land purchase.  The  author brings out the peace and quiet calming nature of a country land  purchase.  I recommend both the book and the land purchase.	1999-11-16
