US	50826414	R3GJAMGCSMP5NJ	B00008AJCG	512931397	What Kind of Nation: Thomas Jefferson, John Marshall, and the Epic Struggle to Create a United States	Books	4	6	7	N	Y	Intriguing!	This is a most relevant book. It is the story of two cousins who consistently and relentlessly clashed over just what kind of nation the United States would become.    Thomas Jefferson and John Marshall were political polar opposites. Jefferson, the Republican, was a fervent believer in State's rights. He held forth strongly that unguarded concentrations of power within the Federal Government would ultimately lead to the destruction of the United States. He was right.    John Marshall's views were just the opposite. Marshall subscribed to a strong central government. He passionately believed that left to themselves, each State's regional self interest would lead to the destruction of the United States. He was also right.    Therein lays the conundrum that faced the early republic and led to the formation of the first political parties. Both sides were right and both sides were wrong. Both men lived to see their fears of unchecked concentrations of power in the Federal Government or in the States lead to exactly the assaults on liberty that each feared. But in a larger sense both men, probably without realizing it, truly lived the concept of checks and balances both subscribed to and cherished within the Constitution.    This is an amazing story of continual, unrequited confrontation. Make no mistake; these men did not like each other. Each defined the other as what was wrong with the early republic. Ultimately, John Marshall prevails in his bid to establish the Supreme Court as the final arbiter of the Constitution and the authoritative voice for the constitutional supremacy of the federal government over the states. More than 150 years after Jefferson's and Marshall's deaths, their words and achievements still reverberate in today's constitutional debate and political party battles. You will be fascinated by this work. Theirs was a confrontation that continues to define just what kind of nation the United States should be.	2005-08-31
US	50826414	R1Z1V2SW36L7C5	0070366764	870911206	Westward vision;: The story of the Oregon Trail (American trails series)	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Fascinating.	Noted historian David Lavender has penned probably the finest single volume on the Oregon Trail ever written. Starting in 1719, 130 years before the trail was formally established, Lavender slowly and concretely builds the story of the United States first claim to this territory by examining similar efforts by the Spanish, French, Russian and English which preceded the American claims.<br /><br />Incorporating and firmly underscoring the efforts of the Native Americans, the Mountain Men, Hudson's Bay Company and the early missionary efforts, Lavender reveals that these four groups did more to claim the Northwest for the United States than any politician or political party in Washington. Always in the forefront of Western Expansion, the impact of the missionary effort was pivotal to the US claim to this Norwest portion of our nation.<br /><br />This is a truly fine history and a remarkably excellent piece of writing.	2005-08-20
US	50826414	R2YFFH51YU8W3Z	0878421521	449264630	Bloody Bozeman: The Perilous Trail to Montana's Gold	Books	5	15	17	N	Y	Well Done!	Possibly the finest work in the early \\"Trail\\" series, the Bloody Bozeman clearly proves the utter senselessness of the early war with the Sioux Nation. Prior to the early hostilities, the area through which the Bozeman Trail was constructed was formally ceded to the Sioux by treaty by none other than General Harney. After the discovery of gold in Montana the population in the Bozeman area went from a few trappers and residual mountain men in 1862 to over 18,000 by 1864. So no truly new travel routes were needed. Even if one was, none other than Jim Bridger has established an alternate route west of the Big Horn Mountains, making the trail totally unnecessary. Last, an additional alternative route farther east of the Bozeman was concurrently developed which proved materially safer but for some reason known only to the Army was never allowed to fully develop. <br /> <br />So one is left to wonder why, with three different alternative routes into the gold fields, the Army forced the development of this trail by establishing the series of forts which Red Cloud fought so viciously against and ultimately forces the abandonment of. This trail was only open for 6 years and thousands died. Red Cloud's war was the only instance of a true US Army defeat in the West. <br /> <br />This is an amazing story, exceptionally well written and crafted. It doesn't so much seek answers as to why the Fetterman disaster occurred as it just simply describes how the trail developed, why it was used, who utilized it and why the Army ultimately withdrew. <br /> <br />Don't miss this one. It is truly a remarkable history of the settling and development of present day Western Montana. This is historical writing that will introduce you to more unforgettable characters than you can imagine and give you a sense of what it was like to carve a State from true wilderness <br />	2005-06-10
US	50826414	R2HUE03TEPRCU8	0553378651	499414161	That Dark and Bloody River (Historical Fiction)	Books	5	59	60	N	Y	Unbelievable!	I am an unabashed fan of Allen W. Eckert so if you seek an impartial review, best mosey on. This is one terrific book, possibly his very best.    Focusing on the first serious push west of the Appalachian Mountains and down the Ohio River by colonials after the Treaty of Fort Stanwix in 1764, the book details the continuing settlement efforts through the Revolutionary War and on to the early 1800's.      As in any migration in US history, this one was seriously contested in a most deadly manner. Literally, thousands upon thousands of people were scalped, butchered, skinned alive, impaled on stakes and tortured in the most unbelievably sadistic manner. There are no nice guys here. Both sides, the early American colonists and subsequent American citizens as protagonists and the Native Americans and their subsequent British allies, mounted military campaigns, patrols, ambuscades and battles that are quite shocking in their intensity and deadly intent. Even more stunning by today's standards, both sides paid for scalps. No sweetheart contest here, Eckert details a long, 30 + year bloody campaign, fought with ingenuity and hate. It is a continuous campaign fought over fur and land and Eckert puts you smack in the middle of it.    This fine book chronicles the major western migration route which settled and wrested control of the Trans Appalachian territory from Britain, France and Spain. It helped me understand, for the first time, just how serious the threat was of the possible separation of the Trans Appalachian west from the eastern seaboard comprising the original 13 States. By 1800 1 milliom people, 20% of our population, lived west of the Applachians. Easterners were totally unsympathetic to the plight of their fellow over-the-mountain citizens and were totally unconcerned with the butchery continually faced by the Westerners. When the East finally woke up to the seriousness of the situation and understood that the territorial gains secured by the Revolutionary Warwere at stake, the response was nothing less than the permanent establishment of the United States Army!    This is an awesome and successful literary undertaking which examines in detail the Nation's very first steps at what would, in later generations, become known as Manifest Destiny. You will not be disappointed.	2005-06-10
US	50826414	R8LEKA8DC9NYC	0140299874	436668799	Empire of the Bay: The Company of Adventurers that Seized a Continent	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	Incredible!	Hudson's Bay Company is quite simply the most successful commercial enterprise ever known to capitalism. Imagine a company that controlled one twelfth of the earth's surface, whose domain was 10 times larger than the Holy Roman Empire, a company whose beginnings date from 1682, that developed its own Army, its own Navy and whose stock is still reputed to be owned by Britain's Royal Family.    In the forward, the author claims this book is about the impact of Hudson's Bay Company on the development Canada over the past three centuries. But it is really not. The author is being too modest. It is really about the impact of Hudson's Bay Company on the development of North America and how HBC actually was responsible for the formation of Canada and the United States as we know them today.    Everything you read in this book is the result of the primary economic force of its time, fur. The fur business was the primary employer for the inhabitants of eighteenth century North America. As such, it was the primary driver for the continuing exploration of the North American continent.    This then is not just a book about corporate wealth accumulation but of territorial exploration and definition, of competing, overlapping claims at a time in which there simply was no law. HBC was the fur business in Canada and in a very real sense it was HBC that defined the northern territorial limits of the United States.    Read and enjoy this excellently written and well documented book. It is really a treasure. You will learn the amazing history of Canada and an incredible amount about the United States as well.	2005-01-30
US	50826414	R34F1MF5NMFM3A	0883940922	874624012	Gray Ghosts and Rebel Raiders: The Daring Exploits of the Confederate Guerillas	Books	3	14	16	N	N	Pretty Darn Good!	This is as good an account of Confederate guerilla activities in the Eastern Theater of operations as I have run across. For me, this book helped me understand 3 things: <br /> <br />1)The war was intensely continuous. It never stopped. Most historians focus on the major battles being as they were the key tests of strength between North and South. But the war was not made up of 15 or 20 segmented, key events. It was not a sometimes thing. It was brutally constant. These people were angry with each other, killing angry, and went out of their way to make their point as often as possibly. <br /> <br />2)The North's battle plan was exceedingly difficult to execute. Virginia's topography was not suited to a clean advance. Holding territory taken was difficult. Supply lines had to be thin, extended and vulnerable. The land itself had to be worth many divisions to Southern forces. And they took maximum advantage of the terrain. <br /> <br />3)The South fought a campaign of terror and was damn good at it. Both sides fought to win. Both sides fought to intimidate. The South was exceptional at this through the summer of 1864 but then the tide changed and when it did it was a tidal wave of unimagined proportions. <br /> <br /> <br />It is amazing how small some of these bands were that descended from the mountains to attack their enemy and then disappear. They snatched couriers to learn of Union movements and plans, destroyed bridges and railroad service, attacked sleeping camps and captured supply trains and prisoners by the thousands. They attacked in the evening, at noon, in the morning and at night. They even captured three Union generals from their beds, almost without firing a shot.  <br /> <br />This is a good book, one worth reading. It drives home the intensity and continuous nature of this conflict. You will not be disappointed. <br />	2005-01-29
US	50826414	R2UE9KMN7HUDY3	0395701015	509709654	To the Gates of Richmond: The Peninsula Campaign	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Gripping!	<br /> <br />This is Sears as his best.  <br /> <br />The Peninsula Campaign of 1862 was the largest campaign of the Civil War and one of the bloodiest. Of the 250,000 men who were engaged, only a fraction had ever been in battle before. One in four was killed, wounded or missing by the time the fighting ended.  <br /> <br />Unlike most Civil War battles which lasted at most a few days. this engagement lasted 3 long, miserable, unholy months. That the Union Army was so close to the Capital of the Confederacy that they could see the Richmond church steeples, it is truly amazing that that this continuous series of major engagements ended in a complete Union withdrawal. <br /> <br />Long the subject of controversy Union General George McClellan's performance is truly mysterious. It is almost as if, once ensconced in front of his objective, he felt the Confederates would surrender like gentlemen should and the War would be tidily concluded. He never considered a possible change of command. <br /> <br />This is the story not of George McClelland but of Robert E. Lee, a man who would take more chances, quicker, than any other field commander on either side until the emergence of Ulysses S. Grant. Taking command of Southern forces at a point in time when the Confederacy is all but lost, he launches a series of battles, now commonly referred to as The Seven Days, that drives Union forces away from Richmond and so effectively bottles them up that is it ultimately removed in an amphibious operation. That Robert E. Lee simply decimates his command, losing six of the seven battles fought is not an issue. The Confederacy is saved and lives to fight on for another 3 years. <br /> <br />To the Gates of Richmond is as good as it gets. You will not be disappointed. <br />	2005-01-16
US	50826414	RIBU5XKO6T1N2	0785812636	895062191	Grant Takes Command	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Remarkable!	The second in a two part study of General Ulysses S. Grant's Civil War leadership, Bruce Catton has written a vivid narrative following the enigmatic Commander in Chief of Union forces through the final year and a half of the war.  <br /> <br />This work won the Pulitzer Prize. Read it and you will appreciate why. It is a remarkably good book, excellently crafted, clear and precise. This one is truly well worth your time. <br />	2005-01-10
US	50826414	R172IO1AS506OC	0195038290	481575463	Mutiny on the Amistad: The Saga of a Slave Revolt and Its Impact on American Abolition, Law, and Diplomacy	Books	1	5	8	N	N	Really Poor!	Pay close attention to the other reviewer's comments. This IS one dry, boring book. And that is a shame because this event is a signal event in the course of our Nation's history. This 1839 mutiny by black Africans aboard a Spanish slave ship resulted in a trial before the US Supreme Court that pitted former President John Quincy Adams, who came out of retirement to defend the Africans, against the federal government. Importantly, this trial was held during the time in which the Gag Rule was in effect within the United States Congress, i.e., it was illegal to simply speak about slavery  within Congress. <br /> <br />It is a shame that this, the most famous and compelling slavery case before Dred Scott, is dealt with so poorly in this book <br />	2005-01-09
US	50826414	RZAWY3VVS9BTI	0060169214	803291769	A Way Through the Wilderness: The Natchez Trace and the Civilization of the Southern Frontier	Books	1	7	14	N	Y	Poor.	I like the majority of William C. Davis works but this work is not a good effort. It does not even begin to focus on the Natchez trace, does not adequately describe the impact of the city of Natchez on the early Southern frontier, ignores the separateness that characterized early southwestern America and barely touches on the existence of another road, the Military Road from Charleston to Mobile to New Orleans that had just as much impact on the settlement and development of this portion of the early southwestern United States. Whew, that was a mouthful!<br /><br />Unfortunately, these are the high points of this book. The book is poorly written, disorganized and follows no chronological sequence. If you are interested in the fascinating history of early Mississippi, Alabama and Georgia, consider The Old Southwest, 1795-1830 by Thomas D. Clark and John D. W. Guice. It appears that many passages of Davis' book are lifted directly from it.	2004-12-28
US	50826414	R2ZVXJS16MPMXH	0060934786	397865119	Flying Cloud: The True Story of America's Most Famous Clipper Ship and the Woman Who Guided Her	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Good Book, Good Read!	This is not a history book, nor does it claim to be. So if you are a sailing purist, looking for a true history of what actually happened on Flying Cloud's maiden voyage, you will be disappointed.  <br /> <br />If, however, you are looking for a good historical novel, and there is nothing wrong with using a novel's format to teach truly GOOD history, then you will be delighted. Based as much on fact as could be assembled, this is a story about the remarkable accomplishment of an excellent navigator who utilized as much of the scientific advances of her time as was then currently available, to achieve truly remarkable results. <br /> <br />I think most reviewers miss the point of this work. Eleanor Creasy, the story's pivotal character, was likely the first navigator on a truly fast ship to incorporate Matthew Fontaine Maury's, Physical Geography of the Sea. This compendium of seasons, winds, and currents flew in the face of all previous navigational works back to the beginning of time. It was the most remarkable sailing advance ever. Its impact on sailing was akin to the impact the Internet has had on the world over the last 20 years. Eleanor's adoption of it, her use of the most advanced scientific navigation tool of her time, is the reason HER achievement, not Maury's, stood for over 100 years. Her drive to win, to succeed in the great sea races of her time, her willingness to take risks no one else took, is the true essence of her story. <br /> <br />And those characteristics, when combined with what had to be her own innate excellence as a navigator, are why her achievement stands so tall.  She really had to be quite remarkable as an 1850s navigator: Why else would she have been entrusted with her ship's owners and her husband, the captain's, complete confidence. She simply had to be darn good before this trip. Thinking outside the box, as she likely often did, is what made her great.  <br /> <br />This is a good book. Don't miss it. <br />	2004-12-27
US	50826414	R3PKELN92L440P	0684804417	535683258	The American West	Books	2	6	15	N	N	Whimsical!	Dee Brown's The American West is a bumpy consolidation of three distinct books. The result is uneven, reflecting three different types of writing organization and style that yield a series of disjointed, non sequential and often unrelated vignettes that ramble across the Western American landscape.<br /><br />Focusing primarily on the West that occurred after the Civil War, it attempts to address a period of continual evolution, of transition between Native Peoples and their non native counterparts, between law and lawlessness and from one ecological state, wilderness, to settlement, farming and ranching. It probably cuts too broad a swath through Western history but for all its lack of continuity and sometimes poor writing quality, it is a book that manages to entertain and inform.<br /><br />Be prepared for some serious Native American bias. It is a very quick read with lots of short, powerful sentences that in a very direct way can evoke a reasonable amount of sympathy for the author's agenda. Unfortunately, he gets too personally attached to his thesis, i.e., the native Americans were treated poorly, and his emotional bias clouds his story line.	2004-12-26
US	50826414	R10MK2KJCUA5XB	0140084991	102398027	Empire Express: Building the First Transcontinental Railroad	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Very Good!	Empire Express is an amazingly well done epic.  <br /> <br />Starting at the beginning of the Age of Steam when only dreamers thought that America's greatest mid century engineering feat was a remote possibility, and winding up at the beginning of the Gilded Age, when only scoundrels seemed to be the survivors of this series of events, David Haward Bain weavers the tale of the building of the first Transcontinental Railroad. From the passes and tunnels of the Sierra Pacific and the Indian dislocations caused by the construction of the route, to the New York Boardroom skirmishes and battles, the swindles and the amazing Washington bribery that embittered two US Presidencies, Bain leaves no stone unturned in the description of THE event that finally bound the East and West coasts of the United States together for the for the time. <br /> <br />Starting in the mid 1840's when mountain men still roamed the American West and finishing in the early 1870's amid complex scandals quite beyond belief, Bain highlights just what an economic driver capitalism has been in the settlement and development of America as we know it today. For over 250 years men of all nations searched for the fabled Northwest Passage, the non existent sea lane that supposedly connected the Atlantic and Pacific oceans. It wasn't until 1862, during the height of the American Civil War that America decided to create on land the passage that did not exist by sea. <br /> <br />This is the story of that incredible undertaking, truly the final step in America's Manifest Destiny. <br />	2004-11-22
US	50826414	R15DEQXNC7INGV	038071938X	121873623	Freedom: A Novel of Abraham Lincoln and the Civil War	Books	4	8	9	N	Y	Intricate, Detailed, Spellbinding!	William Safire has a wonderful habit of selecting a definitive act in our country's history and weaving a tale which instructs the reader as to how and why our country is so great. The key tools used in Freedom are Abraham Lincoln and The Emancipation Proclamation. Do not expect the definitive work on Lincoln but do expect the definitive work on The Emancipation.    Safire's research is awesome. His detailed chronology depicting the major and minor players and, more importantly, the events leading up to the Proclamation's issuance, is very complete. His patience in developing his points and their interrelationships is truly amazing. This is a complex read but it is also a very easily understood one. This author is gifted with clarity and a writing style which flows easily, naturally.    Today, looking back, it is difficult to understand that The Emancipation Proclamation, a document which is so unerringly correct, could generate as much, if not more fear and intrigue in the North as in the South. And therein lays the crux of this work. This book analyses the impact the Proclamation had, not on the South, but on the North and, more importantly, within the North. Getting this Nation to guarantee freedom to all its citizens was no easy task. It was a complex and difficult birth. Safire's description of the events, the scheming and the intrigues is a journey you will not want to overlook.	2004-09-12
US	50826414	R3GALHGYZYICFH	0817308164	263257706	Island No. 10: Struggle for the Mississippi Valley	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Good Analysis!	In 1862 Island No. 10, so named because it was the tenth island south of the junction of the Ohio and Mississippi Rivers at Cairo, Illinois, was a natural fortress 1 mile long and 450 yards wide. It was shallow, 10 feet above low water, in the middle of the channel, and straddled the boundaries of the states of Tennessee, Kentucky and Missouri. It was an ideal site from which the Confederates could maintain control of both rivers, effectively choking all northern river traffic and thus the export of all Union production north of these rivers as far east as today's West Virginia. It was a critical site indeed.    But in March and early April of 1862, the combined Union army and navy launched a campaign for command of the Island No. 10, which became the site of the first extensive seige of the Civil War. Success here launched the elevation of General John Pope to command of the Army of the Potomac and set the stage for the Union's subsequent disaster at second Manassas. But this engagement also demonstrated the strength of Union control in the Mississippi River Valley and set the stage for the Union's ultimate triumph at Vicksburg and the opening of the Mississippi River system over a year later.    An often mentioned yet overlooked Mississippi River battle, Larry J. Daniel and Lynn N. Bock render an excellent analysis of this key, early Civil War Union victory.	2004-09-12
US	50826414	R17ITEGC4LLWU2	0803221037	872768032	Army Exploration in the American West, 1803-1863	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	Absorbing!	We need more historians like William H. Goetzmann. Focusing on the history of the Army's Topographical Engineers we get a completely different view of the Cowboy's and Indians portrayal of the American West that Hollywood likes to keep repeating. Goetzmann shows that almost to a man, and despite many faults, these engineers, the cream of each West Point graduating class, made a most remarkable contribution to the exploration, definition and integration of the American West into the rest of the country at large. <br /> <br />An extension of first the Executive branch and then subsequently of the Congress itself, these men not only defined what others claimed they saw, they scientifically refined what existed to a point where others, who could not see for themselves, could rely with the utmost confidence that things were as reported. Along the way, they influenced everything from much needed infrastructure changes such as road and bridge building, reconnaissance, railroad surveys, raw exploration, and map making to establishing frontier forts and our national boundaries themselves.  <br /> <br />These men accomplished for the United States what the English, French, Russians, Spanish and native peoples could not. They reported an accurate, scientifically based, in-depth understanding of what would be required to conquer and subdue a land that, from the beginning of time, had avoided and frustrated any and all attempts at civilization. This is the amazing story of the men who, more than any other single group, led in the development of the American West. <br />	2004-09-09
US	50826414	R120WA1QV08HFJ	0873381319	384325713	Civil War prisons	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Interesting.	This is a long neglected area of Civil War study. Written in 1930 this work draws upon official records, personal narratives and contemporary newspaper accounts. Issues, events and personalities are treated with very good detail. Starting with the negotiations for prisoner exchange Hesseltine traces the development of policies that ultimately resulted in the permanent incarceration of prisoners of war. The author's report is quite balanced. Both sides have quite a bit to be ashamed of.	2004-03-09
US	50826414	R1HOASN0DYNMQP	0803260962	854305025	Lee's Maverick General: Daniel Harvey Hill	Books	3	12	13	N	N	Poignant.	Daniel Harvey Hill had two key faults. First, he was a very perceptive officer. Second, he always spoke his mind. D.H. Hill was not the only general officer to find himself on the outs with Jefferson Davis during the Civil War but he was one of the very few who was consistently shunned after his fall from grace.<br />Hot tempered and unusually outspoken, he stormed his way through the Civil War, fearlessly leading Confederate soldiers at Malvern Hill and Antietam while continuously stepping on the toes of his superiors. Ultimately, he was made the scapegoat for the mutiny of almost all the general officers serving under Braxton Bragg after the confusing victory of the Army of Tennessee at the Battle of Chickamauga. This mutiny was so pervasive that Jeff Davis was required to leave Richmond and visit the battlefield in order to put down the revolt against Bragg, a Davis favorite. Amazingly, Davis retains Bragg against the wishes of almost every general officer who participated in this engagement.<br />This is a very interesting book, providing insight into why the Confederacy ultimately lost middle Tennessee, thereby opening the way for the Federal advance on Atlanta.	2004-03-09
US	50826414	R39RXLWA51F6TR	0385003420	301048909	The French and Indian Wars: The Story of Battles and Forts in the Wilderness.	Books	3	15	15	N	Y	Absorbing Compendium!	Between the period of initial colonial settlement and the American Revolution, a period of over 70 years, England and France fought four wars for control of the North American continent. This book focuses on these successive wars.<br />Edward Hamilton has reconstructed this amazing story of wilderness, forts and weapons. He takes the reader through each successive war with a surgeon's precision, utilizing some of the best maps ever constructed to detail the magnitude of the European engagement being fought on North American soil. Vital, thrilling and fascinating, the French and Indian Wars culminated an age old rivalry and set the stage for years to come. In the long view, this excellent account shows us exactly why we speak English today instead of French.	2004-02-24
US	50826414	R2B1LVC0D9MK9F	0806126132	574222330	Dangerous Passage: The Santa Fe Trail and the Mexican War	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Highway of Invasion.	In most histories of the War with Mexico, the part played by the Santa Fe Trail is given only a passing glance. So is the part played by the State of Missouri. In this well detailed book, William Y. Chalfant sets the record straight.<br />Stretching 800 miles through Indian country from Independence, Missouri to Santa Fe, New Mexico, the Santa Fe Trail played many parts during the western campaign of the War with Mexico: invasion thoroughfare, resupply route and strategic asset. The conquest of Mexico was a difficult military operation, made more difficult yet by the lack of communication, the vast distances involved, the logistical requirements of not one but two invasion campaigns and the necessary protection required to secure the Army's economic pipeline.<br />Mr. Chalfant does a very credible job of detailing the evolving role of the Santa Fe Trail and the US Army's response to defending this important lifeline during the Mexican War.	2004-02-24
US	50826414	R31XXLS9NI1KNL	080613223X	329490790	When the Eagle Screamed: The Romantic Horizon in American Expansionism, 18001860	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Crisp, Concise, Complete.	This is the finest single volume history on Manifest Destiny written to date. It is not introspective, it is not apologetic, and it is not revisionist. What it is is factual. Starting with the two primary architects of America's westward expansion, Thomas Jefferson and John Quincy Adams, Goetzmann proceeds to add the contributions or vision of each administration sequentially until the entire period, 1800-1860 is covered in complete detail.<br />This is a wonderful compendium of Manifest Destiny from the Adams-Onis Treaty and the Monroe Doctrine to the fur trade, the War with Mexico, and the California gold rush. Rather than focusing solely on internal developments, Goetzmann integrates external impacts into the story line as well. Thus the reader is treated to the impact of the various filibusterers, the impact on Latin American relations, the impact of our relationships in the Pacific Rim and most important the continual intriguing and rivalry with France and Great Britain.<br />This is a much needed macro study of the sixty years it took for the United States to grow from a fledgling republic to its emergence as a world power. No other nation completed this journey in such a short period of time. And no other nation has maintained its position with such complete dominance for so long a time. This is the story of how the United States emerged to not only fill a continent but to also embrace the world.	2004-02-15
US	50826414	R21T2VV2YZ2D7E	0471385034	483166435	John Jacob Astor: America's First Multimillionaire	Books	3	21	24	N	Y	Very Interesting.	John Jacob Astor led the life most people do not even dare to dream about. He was a serial entrepreneur at a time when most of the world was composed of farmers. He was so successful at his businesses that when he died he controlled one-fifteenth of all personal wealth in the United States! Among many other things it is safe to say he was a very driven man.<br />Born in relative poverty in Germany, he immigrated to the United States via England, arriving just after the Revolutionary War ended. Marrying the daughter of the woman who ran his boarding house in New York, his business career moves from the importing of musical instruments to the exporting of furs. So successful is he in the fur business that he is able to finance the establishment of the first American fort in Oregon and supports this effort with his own ships via Cape Horn. Returning east overland, his employees discover the route that subsequently becomes the Oregon Trail!<br />This is a swashbuckler of a story which spans not just the North American Continent but the global economy as it existed in his day as well. Besides furs, he traded tea, seal skins, opium and assorted other commodities through global wars and economic recession on a scale to match the great trading houses of England, the British East India Company and the Hudson Bay Company. He was a man who took huge business risks. A key focus of the book is naturally the fur trade, the dominant wealth generator of its time. This was his first truly big score, one that he engaged in for over 20 years and the primary venture through which he amasses the fortune that provided the investment capital for all the endeavors which would follow.<br />Alex Madsen does an excellent job of fitting Astor within the economic and political time period in which he lived. I have found information here on the fur trade I have found nowhere else. This is a very well researched book; one that not only reports on the biography of the life lived but the history of the time as well. There is a lot to appreciate here. It is a book well worth the time.the time as well. There is a lot to appreciate here. It is a book well worth the time.	2004-02-14
US	50826414	R3AUJWI2RY91X6	0316132446	356973667	Grant Moves South: 1861 - 1863	Books	4	24	24	N	N	Remarkably Good.	Grant Moves South is part one of a two part Civil War study of Ulysses S. Grant. It covers the period 1861-1863, the period in which Grant emerges as the key commander in the Federal western army. Grant was something of an enigma. In a period of armchair Federal generals, when ego, as opposed to performance, ran rampant in the Federal High Command, quiet Sam Grant unassumingly went about capturing not one but two Confederate armies in the field. During the entire length of the Civil War no other commander on either side captured even one.<br />The study of Grant in these years is really the study of Federal victory in the Western Theater of operations. Belmont, Fort Donelson, Shiloh, Corinth and Vicksburg are all key Union victories. With the exception of Corinth, they were all battles in which Grant was in command. It was Grant who was primarily responsible for opening the Mississippi and cutting the Confederacy in two. Emerging from the Civil War as the finest general produced by either side, during this phase of the war, while not the best, he certainly is the equal of Stone wall Jackson or Robert E. Lee. <br />His audacious Vicksburg campaign was a signal event. Cutting free from reinforcements and resupply he moves rapidly, deep into enemy territory fighting not one but four major battles to invest Vicksburg from its land side. He then conducts siege operations while keeping Joe Johnston continually at bay. Vicksburg is generally acknowledged as one of the finest campaigns conducted by either side during the war.<br />Bruce Catton's book is extremely well done and like all of Catton's works, very ably written.	2004-02-11
US	50826414	R2RLL1PLY2W1U0	0803281919	394763208	John Bell Hood and the War for Southern Independence	Books	2	15	18	N	N	Selective.	This biography of John Bell Hood is piecemeal; you will not find the whole story here. For example, it barely touches on Hood's contributions to the battles fought at Antietam and Gettysburg where Hood was openly critical of Robert E. Lee's battle plans. You have to wonder why, when focusing on an offensively minded General like John Bell Hood, the author chooses to really omit the first two Confederate invasions of the North! Surely his experiences there were the foundation for the attacks he subsequently led at Franklin and Nashville, Tennessee.<br />More importantly, the author does not take General Hood to task either for destroying the Army of Tennessee at Franklin and Nashville or for the continual politicking the General loved to engage in. John Bell was definitely not a loyal subordinate. He was quarrelsome, difficult and in reality, could not be trusted by his peers. <br />But he was a fighter. On any battlefield in which he was engaged he fought like a demon. It is quite likely that with the exception of Stonewall Jackson, John Bell Hood was the finest combat general the Confederacy possessed.<br />McMurry spends too much time trying to downplay the Peter Principal in John Bell's life, and, as a result, forgets to highlight those areas of this brilliant combat officer's contributions which should be thoroughly discussed in a book of this nature. As a result, he forgets to pay John Bell Hood the respect he is due.	2004-02-09
US	50826414	RNEBBOJABOPET	1877853208	666482715	Jubal Early's Raid on Washington 1864	Books	4	2	3	N	N	The South's Third and Final Invasion of the North.	In the summer of 1864, Confederate troops, under the leadership of General Jubal A. Early stole an amazing march on Union forces and invaded the Shenandoah Valley. General Robert E. Lee, in an effort to counteract the pressure that Ulysses S. Grant was putting on Petersburg, had entrusted Early with the task of seizing Baltimore or Washington. So successful were the Confederates in this maneuver that the Union High Command was completely unaware they had left the Petersburg battlefield.<br />When he first heard reports of this march Grant did not believe the Confederates had sufficient men and material to mount such an invasion. While Grant was ultimately right, this maneuver was much more serious than a feint and the Union's response to it was awful.  The Union's inability to defeat or even properly coordinate operations against Jubal Early led to the appointment of Phil Sheridan to battle the Confederates in the Shenandoah Valley and free Washington from Southern threats. But the Federal defensive cover in the Shenandoah and in the Baltimore/Washington corridor was so thin that a full division had to be diverted from Petersburg to Washington for its defense. It arrived in the nick of time.<br />This campaign was a near thing. Confederate forces came so close to Washington that President Lincoln came under hostile fire, the only US President to ever do so. While Grant was ultimately correct, the Confederates were not strong enough to launch an effective attack against Washington's defenses, Grant was also wrong: His army was out flanked and his capital was defenseless.<br />This was an amazing undertaking. The logistics alone were awesome and the battles fought were fierce. It was the South's third and final invasion of the North, the very last rabbit in the Confederacy's hat. <br />Mr. Cooling's effort here is quite good.	2004-02-09
US	50826414	R1BYHKR8YRX1TS	0892817100	651663620	The Lost Treasure of the Knights Templar: Solving the Oak Island Mystery	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Tighten Your Seat Belt for This Ride!	This book has everything you could want in a great novel: Vikings, Christians, Jews, Romans, Visigoths and Scots. That's right, Scots! Now when was the last time you read a good book on Scottish history!<br />This is a good read and you will enjoy it. If you wind up believing what is in here you will begin to realize that almost everyone of note in history was a Mason, Freemason, whatever. If you don't believe the oh-too-fast transitions then you will laugh out loud. But whatever your leanings are you are going to enjoy yourself.<br />The basic premise of this book is that Scottish decedents of Jesus are responsible for the amazing engineering that does exit on Oak Island, Nova Scotia, Canada. In it is contained the stupefying treasure of the Knights Templar, an outlawed religious order that dates back to the time of the crusades.<br />That no one knows what comprises this treasure is not an issue. Nor should it be, that would ruin the fun. Oak Island has so far defied any and all comers who want to discover its secrets from Franklin Delano Roosevelt on down. Read this book. It is wild supposition, a line of reasoning that is both intriguing and thought provoking.	2004-02-08
US	50826414	R3CXDY5D8I6AR8	0873384865	73464582	Red River Campaign: Politics and Cotton in the Civil War	Books	5	8	10	N	N	An Excellent Work!	Written in 1958, Red River Campaign is one of the finest pieces of literature written on the Civil War. Also known as &quot;one damn blunder from beginning to end&quot;, this book examines a somewhat forgotten campaign, one pursued by General Nathaniel P. Banks, a Lincoln political appointee and a soldier General Ulysses S. Grant had absolutely no use for.<br />Fought on the Red River throughout Central and Northwestern Louisiana, this campaign is a study in how partisan politics, economic need and personal profit determined military policy and operations in Louisiana and Arkansas during the spring of 1864. It is also a study in conducting military operations in a tactically useless theater of operations, an operation in which the Union Army was almost totally annihilated and one in which the Union River Navy was almost captured intact. Blunder does not begin to connote the foolishness of this campaign. It was a short operation, lasting from only March 12 to May 20, but wound up being one of the most destructive of the entire war.<br />Ludwell H. Johnson does a masterful job with his topic. The writing is clear and concise and the tale told is really quite amazing.	2004-02-08
US	50826414	R2WI8EOWIV954P	0820303704	145046095	Yankee Blitzkrieg: Wilson's Raid Through Alabama and Georgia	Books	4	7	7	N	N	The Campaign that Captured Jeff Davis.	In the spring of 1865 Union General James Wilson mounted a cavalry campaign designed to destroy the industrial sections of Alabama and Georgia that were still untouched by combat. From the Tennessee River to Selma and Montgomery Alabama and on to Columbus and Macon, Georgia this campaign was lightening fast, crushing everything in its path. <br />Moving 14,000 men over 500 miles in just a month is a remarkably uncommon feat. So is fighting 4 major battles along the way. But General Wilson's forgotten campaign not only defeated and captured Nathan Bedford Forrest but also captured Jefferson Davis and Alexander Stephens as well.<br />This book is the study of a massive Union cavalry operation that was executed with impunity, one that destroyed what little was left of the Confederacy. It is also the campaign that captured the Confederate government! <br />James Pickett Jones details this event exceptionally well. You will not be disappointed.	2004-02-07
US	50826414	R2P23ITU937K3I	0029201357	269467708	Sherman: A Soldier'S Passion For Order	Books	4	5	9	N	N	First in War, First in Peace!	William Tecumseh Sherman was an unusually good soldier. With the exception of Grant, he prosecuted the war as the South never imagined a Yankee could. He realized early on that this war would be long and brutal. He also realized that it would profoundly change the very nature of the United States.<br />John Marszalek gives the reader a man who never stops trying. From soldier to banker, from school teacher back to soldier, Sherman was a man who did his best all the time. He suffered quite a few set backs, some of them material, yet he always rebounded and it was this resiliency, this durability, that enabled him to persevere in his desire to end the Civil War in the only way he knew it could be ended, with the total destruction of the Confederacy.<br />Between Grant's war of attrition and Sherman's war of annihilation the rules of warfare were simply rewritten. Sherman was one of the greatest generals the Civil War produced. The story of his life is the story of a warrior. Seen by most historians as simply a destroyer, Marszalek justifiably points out that he just may have been one of the very best friends the South had.<br />You will enjoy this exceedingly well written book about an amazingly adaptive and creative man, one who fought hard for what he believed in and in so doing, laid the foundations for America as we know it today.	2004-02-07
US	50826414	R2VRE4GNOEJ9IR	0806125659	370535034	The Army of Tennessee (The Civilization of the American Indian Series)	Books	3	17	19	N	N	60+ years Old.	I like reading some of the older books written on various aspects of the Civil War. Stan Horn's book is often quoted in many of the bibliographies of more recent vintage. Despite its age, it remains a key work on the Confederacy's war plans in its Central theater of  operations. It is remarkably devoid of Confederate excuses.<br />The book focuses on the performance of the Army of Tennessee and Horn places the blame for its poor performance where it belongs, on the Confederacy's High Command. He does an unusually good job with the bickering that occurred in key command positions, analyzes Jeff Davis' curious support for Braxton Bragg and lays the blame for this Army's ultimate destruction under John Bell Hood where it belongs, at the feet of Jeff Davis.<br />Well written and researched, it is a book well worth the time.	2004-02-02
US	50826414	R3GPY0CVTKQDUG	0395924979	330550760	Across the Wide Missouri	Books	2	9	25	N	N	Not Too Good.	This book won the Pulitzer Prize. You have to wonder why.<br />If the author had stuck to his original premise, the Rocky Mountain fur trade in the mid to late 1830's, he would have had a winner. But only selected portions of that era seem to be here. Worse, Bernard DeVoto overlays so much extraneous information  on what is here, in such a dense fashion, that this work becomes incredibly difficult to follow. It really is a very odd book. Many, far too many passages move beyond opaque; they become indecipherable. The reader winds up spending more time trying to understand the relevance of certain passages than he or she spends on the story itself.<br />This book was written 57 years ago and literary styles have certainly changed. However, I think it is fair to say the author has a difficult time adequately communicating with his reader. The first half of the book is acceptable, but the last half reads like it was written by Edgar Allen Poe. DeVoto continuously makes up his own names for people, places and organizations. The result is a circuitous, nonsensical ramble much more based on myth than fact.<br />I was very eager to read this work and have really liked other works by Bernard DeVoto. Having read it, I feel cheated. I hope you have much more luck with it than I did.	2004-01-25
US	50826414	R3UBH8I2IOCV45	0805060995	34649879	Decisive Day: The Battle for Bunker Hill	Books	4	11	11	N	Y	This Man Can Write.	The Battle of Bunker Hill was a most singular event. It signified a complete break with Mother England: physically, mentally, and morally. It was a point of no return, a rupture which would never be healed.<br />Bunker Hill was a remarkably savage battle. As battles go, it was not particularly large affair. Twelve hundred Americans fought twice as many British. Yet, as the author points out in his introduction, nearly half of the British and one third of the Americans fell. It was a slugfest from which neither side ran, one whose ramifications still define us to this day.<br />Richard Ketchum has written a winner. He presents both sides views and is quite sympathetic to each. His prose is clear, precise, and compact. His maps and depictions are excellent. You will not find a more complete, fairer rendering of this event. You can almost hear the sound of battle and smell the gun powder. <br />This is an altogether excellent effort penned by a gifted writer.	2004-01-24
US	50826414	RFFWSILA0R7C0	0873514068	309441920	The Last Full Measure: The Life and Death of the First Minnesota Volunteers	Books	4	22	22	N	N	Electric!	This work makes your jaw sag. There were many heroic actions at Gettysburg: Pickett's charge, the 20th Maine, the 15th Alabama, the Iron Brigade, just to mention a few. But no one unit played a more significant role, to less subsequent acclaim, than the First Minnesota Volunteers.<br />One of the first regiments to respond to Lincoln's initial call, their service reads like a history of the Army of the Potomac. Their key work, however, was done on July 2nd 1863. During the Gettysburg campaign they suffered 70% casualties, 232 out of the 330 engaged. Amazingly, the majority of these casualties occurred in less than 45 seconds. <br />Even more amazing, after three days of fighting in which many units had distinguished themselves, the contribution of the First Minnesota, especially on the second day, wasn't immediately apparent to those who had not witnessed it. Such was the carnage of Gettysburg.<br />This is their story.	2004-01-23
US	50826414	R11JJQWMWSXBBO	0553293818	3497091	A Cavalryman with Custer (Eyewitness to the Civil War)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Good Story Well Told.	J. H. Kidd's personal reflections read like they were written by professional. They were. He was a newspaperman. He was also a Regimental Cavalry Commander under Brigadier General George Armstrong Custer. <br />Kidd's war observations and his feelings for his commander make very interesting reading. Mustered in during1862, he serves with distinction in the Eastern Theater of the war. Entering as a Captain, he returns home three years later a Brevet Brigadier General. During that time he not only serves with distinction in the majority of the engagements fought by the Army of the Potomac, he participates in the Union's revitalization of its Cavalry. Easily a laughing stock in the beginning, this is the same group of men that defeat JEB Stuart at Gettysburg and kill him at Yellow Tavern.<br />From 1863 on the Union Cavalry equaled or exceeded its Confederate counterpart. By war's end there was no contest. This is an insider's view as to how that transformation was effected.	2004-01-21
US	50826414	R2BKI4HR7BIU2Q	0375708766	343556390	Lincoln: A Novel (The American Chronicle Series)	Books	4	4	8	N	N	A Little Far Fetched (And Intended To Be).	This book is very entertaining.     Gore Vidal is an excellent author. However, this is not necessarily a good historical novel. It is quite long on conjecture and supposition, too much so. As a result, the history, the central topic that sells this book, is skewed, questionable.    But that is quite alright. It is why Mr. Vidal titled it, Lincoln: A Novel. There is no reason not to enjoy this work, it is good. Just understand that Vidal's book is more good, novelist conjecture than solid, factual history. It is an interesting and fun read, one to be enjoyed.	2004-01-15
US	50826414	R3NPRTKWITQIMA	0803287631	662867959	Campaigning with Grant	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Engrossing.	These are the personal reminiscences of Horace Porter, Aide-de-Camp to General Grant. He joined Grant April 4, 1864 and served with him for 9 years, 1864-1872. So by definition expect Federal bias and a father like depiction of Grant. That said, this is a very good Civil War learning tool, insightful as only the reflections of someone who was privy to the highest councils of Union command could be.<br />From his promotion to General-in-Chief until the end of the war, Grant had to make many tough decisions. Porter reports a number of these in his book. Most importantly, however, he reports on Grant, General of the Armies. My comments to come are not intended to  denigrate Robert E. Lee in any way. Let's face it, Lee's performance was awesome. However, Grant's performance was much better, if for no other reason than Grant's authority was greater than Lee's. Until the very last days of the war, Jeff Davis acted as his own General-in-Chief. For all but 4-5 weeks, Lee only commanded the Army of Northern Virginia. Grant, however, commanded all Federal armies. Thus, as biased as Porter's work necessarily is, Porter does give us the first and best look at a true modern general. Grant's political awareness, his understanding of logistics, close coordination with the navy, handling multiple armies, ability to improvise, understand and forge new methods of warfare such as Sherman's march, \\"mark him as the exceptional general of the nineteenth century\\". He really was.<br />Porter's book gives us a unique view of how Grant's abilities evolved. Equally important we get in-depth reviews of a variety of Union participants, everyone from Lincoln, to Hancock, Dana, Meade, Sherman and Sheridan just to mention a few. These personal reflections are quite worthwhile.<br />This is one interesting book, written by a well positioned observer. It is a book that adds greatly to understanding the workings of the Union high command during the final year of the Civil War.	2004-01-15
US	50826414	R9EJRBVRC614	0803287631	662867959	Campaigning with Grant	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Engrossing.	These are the personal reminiscences of Horace Porter, Aide-de-Camp to General Grant. He joined Grant April 4, 1864 and served with him for 9 years, 1864-1872. So by definition expect Federal bias and a father like depiction of Grant. That said, this is a very good Civil War learning tool, insightful as only the reflections of someone who was privy to the highest councils of Union command could be.<br />From his promotion to General-in-Chief until the end of the war, Grant had to make many tough decisions. Porter reports a number of these in this book. But he also reports on Grant, General of the Armies. My comments to come are not intended to in any way denigrate Robert E. Lee. Let's face it, Lee's performance was awesome. However, Grant's performance was much better, if for no other reason than Grant's authority was greater than Lee's. Until the very last days of the war, Jeff Davis acted as his own General-in-Chief. For all but 3 weeks, Lee only commanded the Army of Northern Virginia. Grant, however, commanded all Federal armies. Thus, as biased as Porter's work necessarily is, Porter does give us the first and best look at a true modern general. Grant's political awareness, his understanding of logistics, close coordination with the navy, handling multiple armies, ability to improvise, understand and forge new methods of warfare such as Sherman's march, \\"mark him as the exceptional general of the nineteenth century\\".<br />Porter book gives us a unique view of how Grant's abilities evolved. Equally important we get in-depth reviews of a variety of Union participants everyone from Lincoln, to Hancock, Dana, Meade, Sherman and Sheridan just to mention a few. These personal reflections are quite worthwhile.<br />This is one interesting book, written by a well positioned observer. It is a book that adds greatly to understanding the Union participants of the Civil War.	2004-01-15
US	50826414	R3QN3QXIDL7WJH	0803257325	160963393	Custer: The Life of General George Armstrong Custer (Bison Book S)	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Custer: Easy Victim.	In these days of political correctness George Armstrong Custer is an obvious target. Like so many of us who have trained hard for a profession, something you are really good at, it is a tough thing to put it down. Custer peaked early, unbelievably early. Six months after graduating West Point he was an officer engaged in the Civil War. By war's end he was a Brigadier General, the youngest ever. He was a 4 year combat veteran used to command, possessing the easy confidence of youth. He was at the top of his game and the pinnacle of his military career. He was only 25.<br />After the war, like so many others, his services were no longer required. He was out of work. So he did what most of us do, he went back to doing what he did best, in his case fighting. Make no mistake, Custer was a brave man. He was also a young one, guilty of the arrogance of youth. His death, at the Battle of the Little Big Horn, happened to occur when the United States was at war with the Sioux Nation. This is a small point most historians forget.<br />Today we are embarrassed by the genocide the United States practiced against Native Americans. We should be. But we need to remember that Custer himself was nothing more than a tool in the manipulation and ultimate eradication of Native peoples. Love him or hate him he was a professional soldier, following orders in a time of war. His current role as history's fall guy for an awful Indian policy that in many ways is no better today is truly undeserved. Jay Monaghan has written one interesting look at a man who did nothing more than follow his county's orders.	2004-01-13
US	50826414	R1LP4S28TQPK76	0394757637	108668770	Sherman's March: The First Full-Length Narrative of General William T. Sherman's Devastating March through Georgia and the Carolinas	Books	4	20	28	N	N	Fascinating!	In recommending to General Grant the he be allowed to break free from his supply lines and march from Atlanta to Savannah, Sherman stated,\\"I can make this march and I will make Georgia howl\\". He did just that. This is an amazingly good book by Burke Davis. Written with just a bit of Southern bias (\\"Federal troops...plundered their way through the South\\"), the author makes Sherman's point for him: \\"War is hell, there is no use in trying to refine it\\".    This book accurately depicts the experience of the 65,000 Federal troops who made this march. It clearly illustrates the complete inability of the Confederacy to defend itself, the breakdown of organized resistance and the subsequent impact on the South's population. Sherman's uncontested march through Georgia and the Carolinas represents the final nail in the Confederacy's coffin. After Lincoln's presidential victory in November 1864 one can only wonder why the South did not sue for peace. They must have known, had to have realized, that the end was only a matter of time. European recognition had been laid to rest 18 months earlier.     In a very real sense, the South visited the horror of Sherman's March upon themselves. After reading this book you get a good feeling for the serious disconnect, the complete lack of effective communication, between Confederate field commanders and their government's civilian administration. This book is an awesome accomplishment: It is a poignant testament to why there will never be a William T Sherman High School in Georgia, South or North Carolina.	2004-01-13
US	50826414	R3EVWMHN5VGT37	0807119741	57369294	P. G. T. Beauregard: Napoleon in Gray (Southern Biography Series)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Intriguing.	PGT Beauregard was an interesting personality. In most general Civil War publications, the North and South both had generals who were in and out of favor with their superiors during the course of the war. Beauregard was one of those, though he was mostly on the outs. <br />Yet he was one of only 8 full generals of the Confederacy. Interestingly, he held six independent commands and for a while he commanded the Army of Tennessee, one of the two principal field armies.<br />His defense of Charleston was very good. The city was never taken by Federal frontal assault. It took Sherman's overland campaign to force Charleston's abandonment but each and every seaborne assault was rebuffed. So he must have been a capable general.<br />But if he was capable, maybe even good at his craft, why wasn't he better utilized as a tool for Southern Independence? And if he was not useful to Jeff Davis during much of the war, why was he rushed back to service once Grant crossed the James? The answer is simple: Lee needed help and needed the best the South had available as the Civil War's end game played itself out. <br />This is the stuff Mr. Williams' book is made of. As on all occasions where significant events take place, power politics was present and Jeff Davis just may have failed to recognize his Ulysses S. Grant.	2004-01-08
US	50826414	R1Y2LLHK28JFIE	0312169728	466282666	Quantrill's War: The Life & Times Of William Clarke Quantrill, 1837-1865	Books	3	5	10	N	N	A Stomach Turner.	War is, among other things, uncontrolled chaos. Once a battle or an action starts, it takes on a life of its own. Hatreds, which exist during peace, ride unchecked during war. Both sides, North and South have much to be ashamed of during the entire extent of the Civil War. But no matter how horrific the ugliest portions of this conflict were, nothing really approached the Confederate's Lawrence, Kansas or Ft. Pillow massacres.    This is the story of the butchery which occurred at Lawrence, Kansas. Unlike Ft. Pillow, there were just too many civilian witnesses to effectively suppress or deny it. This is a capably researched and toughly written work that offers vivid evidence that barbarity and treachery are qualities that can characterize all groups and nations. It is what we consistently see occur throughout history when thugs rise to power.    You will not like what you read here. It is graphic. Civil War buffs are more than able to sanitize this war given the 140 years that have passed since it ended. We become one of three groups: pro North, pro South or just glad we did not split into two nations. This work desanitizes the conflict. It was an awful war and this was a Confederate war crime.	2004-01-08
US	50826414	R3UZ51EE5DCGZL	0452281245	994703224	Company Aytch: A Classic Memoir of the Civil War	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Pretty Darn Good!	I have to admit to being an unabashed lover of truly good personal narratives on the Civil War. They help us get away from the big picture to see what really happened and how the experiences impacted the participants. Sam Watkins' work is as good as it gets.<br />Sam's experience, stretching the entire span of the war, is quite simply amazing. Joining the Maury Grays, First Tennessee Regiment, he fights in all its major battles from Shiloh to Nashville. This is the story of combat, told by a veteran who not only fought hard but consistently. No shirker here, it is a wonder that he survived. His description of the action at Kennesaw Mountain will take your breath away.	2004-01-08
US	50826414	RSK89A1010KFZ	0803265948	357294483	The Seven Days: The Emergence of Lee	Books	3	2	8	N	N	Somewhat Muddled.	Dowdey is a Southerner writing about Confederate General Robert E. Lee, so expect this effort to be a bit biased. But it is a reasonably good summation of the final days of the Peninsula Campaign when George B. McClellan frittered away an early, life threatening blow to the Confederacy. So close to the Confederate Capital his troops could see Richmond's church spires, McClellan retreats despite winning the majority of the battles fought during these seven days. Lee, thrust into command after the wounding of Joe Johnston, has no strategic alternative. He has no choice but to attack. This he does with gusto.    In the face of these consistent attacks which decimate the South's army, McClelland, believing himself outnumbered, retreats and Lee's only course of action, attack, bluffs the Union commander into submission. Today most people recognize that Lee had no alternative. Equally important, most observers, North and South, are aghast at McClelland's horrific performance which he would repeat against the same antagonist at Antietam.     There is no doubt that Robert E. Lee rose to the occasion and did his very best under the most difficult circumstances. This is quite a good overview of those horrific battles.	2004-01-03
US	50826414	RA9BXOKUJOYUO	0811724387	786363941	From Cedar Mountain to Antietam (Stackpole)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Very Good!	This is an excellent account of the end of the Peninsula Campaign through and including the South's first invasion of the North, Antietam. Clearly written, concise and with excellent maps, the interpretation of tactics and strategy is excellent. Given Lee's misfortunes and incredible blunders, it is almost beyond belief that McClellan would let him escape a second time. You begin to think that the South's best general was not Robert E. Lee but George B. McClellan. <br />In his final battle McClellan truly proves himself either inept or treasonous, you decide. Thank God Lincoln finally fired him for good. Be prepared for a little Southern bias.	2004-01-03
US	50826414	R19ZYKKBPKK6I6	087517065X	887159728	The Great Wagon Road: From Philadelphia to the South	Books	2	47	57	N	Y	America's First Great Migration!	This work is so poorly written, repeats itself and wanders away from its subject so often that it is more like a collage written by a high school student than a serious history. It is a cluttered hodgepodge. Yet it is an important work, one that should be read.  It is only recently that I realized Philadelphia was to the continental colonies what Ellis Island was to the later United States. I wonder how many Southerners will be surprised to find out that their ancestors migrated from the North. While the concept is amusing in a wry sort of way, it also helps explain the developing sense of colonial identity. Those people up North or down South were not strangers. They were Aunt Mary, Cousin John, or Grandpa!  The growth of Great Britain's American colonies was constrained by 2 facts of 16th and 17th century life: the Appalachian Mountains and King George II. It was a horrendous task to cross the mountains and their sovereign forbid it. Founded on religious freedom, Pennsylvania became a haven for all sorts of people fleeing Europe. So for years, as population concentrations grew in and around Philadelphia, and because westward migration was out of the question, a natural migration southward occurred along an ancient Indian trading and warring path which connected the entire northern and southern east coast.   This path was acquired from the Indians over time and became known as The Great Wagon Road, so labeled on a map drawn by Thomas Jefferson's father, Peter. It is over this settlers' path from Philadelphia that the western portions of Virginia, North and South Carolina and Georgia were originally peopled. This migration was vast, lasting 50 to 60 years and numbering in the tens of thousands of people. And many of the original overnight camping spots grew to become American cities such as Winston-Salem, Augusta, Winchester and Gettysburg to name a few. After the American Revolution this flood tide turned westward into Tennessee and Kentucky along Daniel Boone's Wilderness Road.  This is the story of an almost unreported mass migration that occurred during Britain's colonial period, a movement that peopled major portions of what was to become the United States. Quietly, very quietly, the record shows that we really were one people long before the American Revolution occurred.	2004-01-02
US	50826414	R2ARH6F2V0C4AM	0942211030	943521145	Pat Cleburne: Confederate General	Books	1	2	10	N	N	Poor.	Pat Cleburne was an excellent battlefield commander. It is too bad that his brilliance does not show through in this dry, boring biography. Poorly constructed and written, please, save your money, and look elsewhere for information regarding this Confederate hero's life.	2003-12-31
US	50826414	R3R1OC9TAQRZNS	0060976179	902290656	Thomas Jefferson: A Life	Books	2	17	25	N	N	A True Farce!	If this is the best single volume biography on Thomas Jefferson then there is a lot of work left to do. Biography is about what men and women accomplish, what they do with their lives, how they live life and how they handle success and failure. This work of Randall's falls very far short on almost all scores.    To write over 560 pages of text and dedicate only 30 or so to his eight years as President of the United States and even less to his retirement when he did much valuable scientific work is really to miss the essence of what this man was all about. This man loved his country and contributed mightily to it. He formulated thoughts and ideas that still hold true today. Many of his policies are still in force. So where are they?    Not only does the author leave out so many of the crowning achievements of Jefferson's contributions to our American form of government, what he does cover is not adequately communicated. The writing is dull, uneven and confusing. Worse Randall actually plays with the facts. He denies Jefferson's relationship with Sally Hemings, a fact proved by DNA testing. He contends that the election of 1800 was really no big deal. And of course he would never admit to Jefferson's playing with freedom of the press. How silly. How misleading.    Of course Thomas Jefferson was a complex person. He was a politician; he always stood where the wind blew.  But a biography like this, containing several material misstatements of fact while omitting some of the man's most amazing contributions to the foundation of our country, does no one any good at all. It misleads the reader, misrepresents the facts and denigrates the incredible life that was lived.	2003-12-31
US	50826414	R13SAGOIR3OD5A	0385495404	556829614	The First American: The Life and Times of Benjamin Franklin	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Interesting!	H.W. Brands is a very good historian. This biography of Ben Franklin is really second to none. In these days when most biographers try to psychoanalyze their subjects with 21st century techniques, it is refreshing to read a work that focuses on the essence of biography: What did the person do and how well did he or she do it?    Well done, Professor Brands. Thanks to you your readers will know more about Ben Franklin, his accomplishments, the scope of his interests and his contributions to America. Prior to this I always thought of Franklin as a stuffy sort. No more. He was a most learned man, a leading thinker of his day as equally at home in the capitals of Europe discussing issues of trade and government as he was at home in Philadelphia creating a new country. Long viewed as a great consensus builder make no mistake, Ben Franklin was an ardent rebel, one who made a most dramatic contribution to the foundation of the United States.	2003-12-31
US	50826414	RSZZBBM2G35O4	0395924987	852310851	The Course of Empire	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Quite Excellent.	This is a book about the exploration, not the settlement, of North America. As such, it traces the 278 year history of European and American efforts to penetrate and understand the North American continent.<br />The Course of Empire then is a compendium of various and sometimes quite different national interests. Utilizing a chronological, fill in the blank approach, DeVoto literally fills in the map of North America as viewed, rightly or wrongly, by each succeeding explorer. Chapter by chapter this story unfolds across the entire history of North American exploration. Thus, the reader meets everyone in chronological sequence, starting with Balboa and ending with Lewis and Clark. <br />Since subsequent explorers often had access to the records of those that preceded them, DeVoto is not only able to fill in the North American map with the contribution of each exploration, he is also able to link each exploration to its fundamental drivers: national intent and economic interest. As a result, he is able to underscore the ebb and flow of New World power as each country's global interests and economic situation changed over time.<br />For example, Spain's 16th century interest was mostly focused on conquest and plunder. As a result, Spain's more northern explorations, led by De Soto and Coronado, were limited by the lack exploitable civilizations. In contrast, after the defeat of the Spanish Armada and Spain's decline as a world power, England's subsequent 17th and 18th century efforts were more driven by land acquisition, sugar and the fur trade. It is easy to see why then that the French and Indian War was fought and why Britain's explorations are so much more consistent and focused on such dramatically different sections of North America.<br />Of critical interest is how the author weaves the unbelievable scope of this effort into a consistent whole, telling the story of how the geography of North America limited and encouraged continental expansion and ultimately defined the national borders of the United States. This is an excellent work and well worth your time.	2003-12-30
US	50826414	RBTF125JL75A9	0806132795	798058187	So Far From God: The U. S. War With Mexico, 18461848	Books	4	87	105	N	N	Woeful, Wonderful and Wrong?	If anyone undertakes even a cursory study of the concept of Manifest Destiny, he or she will sooner or later be forced to deal with the facts surrounding the US war with Mexico.<br />The contemporary evaluation is that we were wrong and used pretense to steal one third of Mexico. The fact that we offered to buy the land which was ultimately acquired by arms, and for which we subsequently paid, does not auger well in our defense. But to use today's standards to judge the right or wrong of an event that occurred over 150 years ago, like many historians do today, never produces good history. Simply stated, Mexico's disorganized centrist policies left it unable to govern itself. If the United States had not taken Mexico to task, another nation would have. Mexico was incredibly unstable and corrupt. It was both socially and morally bankrupt, a fact often overlooked today.<BR> <BR>John D. Eisenhower leaves the correctness or incorrectness of this war where it belongs, with the reader. He tries to avoid the mistake of judging 19th century events with 21st century standards. Except for his short introduction, he makes no political statements. He neither supports this war as a natural extension of Manifest Destiny nor condemns it as some form of land based buccaneering. He simply reports the facts as they occurred.<br />And report the facts he does! What the American military accomplished over such a vast theater of operations with little more than 100,000 men in less than one year of active campaigning is almost incomprehensible. Mexico was no easy conquest. This became the bloodiest war the United States ever fought: 13% of those engaged died. But it was also a string of the most amazing, lightening fast victories, fought by officers who would face each as protagonists in the subsequent American Civil War. In a very real sense, this war with Mexico was a training ground for the holocaust that was to follow 13 years later.<br />This is a study in operational efficiency. American armies executed their war plans with impunity in four separate theaters of war and over thousands and thousands of miles. Fought from today's Brownsville, Texas to Monterrey and Buena Vista, from Veracruz to Mexico City, from Missouri to Chihuahua, and from El Paso to Los Angeles and San Francisco, this war spanned the continent. Fought at a time when communication really did not exist, when wagon trains and pack mules were the only forms of logistical support, this kind of coordinated effort was truly a spectacular feat of arms.	2003-12-22
US	50826414	RG8YF7H0VJPQQ	0805069399	603366254	John Quincy Adams (The American Presidents Series)	Books	2	42	46	N	Y	Not History's Favorite.	This is one of the few, possibly the only, early American President I am aware of who is consistently treated poorly by historians. It is almost like there is some unspoken conspiracy to paint the man as some kind of slacker. The closest we can come to this kind of consensual disapproval is how the American press treated Gerald Ford's athleticism. In Ford's case, this former center for the University of Michigan football team, an excellent recreational skier and a man who consistently shot golf in the low 70's was treated as an uncoordinated clod, who could not put one foot in front of another. Something similar is going on with the depiction of JQA.<br />Independent of his parents in Europe for 6 years, much of that time by his own choice, his biographers treat him as a mama's boy. That's right, the same man who undertook his first diplomatic mission for the United States at age 14! And it goes down hill from there. <br />Incredible successes as Secretary of State under James Monroe are glossed over, a Presidential vision for America that was the equal of Washington, Adams (his father), Jefferson, Madison and Monroe's combined, formulator of the Monroe Doctrine, extender of the Continental limits of the United States from sea to sea, ardent abolitionist who fought the Gag Rule in the House of Representatives for 9 years (that's right, he defends our most fundamental of freedoms, freedom of speech, and during a 9 year Congressional battle, defeats those who would have suppressed this freedom within our own Congress), founder of the Smithsonian, the list of this man's unbelievable accomplishments goes on and on.<br />Professor Remini should be embarrassed for this mediocre effort. Was JQA stiff, prickly and unyielding? Of  course he was. Was he obstinate, arrogant and difficult? Again JQA is guilty. But after his outstanding works on Jackson, Webster, and Clay for Professor Remini to simply repeat Nagel's poor work and not take the time and opportunity to fairly andaccurately report on this man's life accomplishments has got to be some form of academic bankruptcy. This book is only 155 pages long. And those pages are small. That should tell you something. Save your money.	2003-12-21
US	50826414	R39H4F4CMWCW3Z	0801848644	242905791	The Dawn's Early Light (Maryland Paperback Bookshelf)	Books	4	26	30	N	N	Exceptional!	Most of us are taught to believe that the War of 1812 was an American fiasco. Walter Lord's The Dawn's Early Light is an exceptionally well written work which depicts just how America sent the Brits packing for a second time and along the way earned not only international respect but also forged a sense of true national identity.<br />This is quite a fine work. Starting with the British burning of Washington, DC, Lord follows through to the defeat of the same army at Baltimore and the subsequent annihilation of the Duke of Wellington's finest troops, those that defeated Napoleon at Waterloo, at the Battle of New Orleans. While the battle sequences are extremely well done, the behind the scene negotiations are covered equally well.<br />This book delivers what most historians often forget. By defeating Great Britain twice, a very young nation, one whose ideas of self government were so uncertain that some of its own citizens though it would not work, developed a sense of self, one that was to set the tone for the rest of the world to follow.<br />This is a remarkably well written and structured work, sure to please all but the British!	2003-12-21
US	50826414	RCDAY6ZDIDZGV	0806131284	327107439	Agent of Destiny: The Life and Times of General Winfield Scott	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Fascinating Personality.	General Winfield Scott's life is very much worth knowing about. Serving 14 Presidents, 13 as a general officer, he executed the military policies of his Nation in its very earliest stages. He became a military officer almost by accident. He did this at a time when the United States was a mere concept, a fledgling country whose liberties and freedoms were undeveloped, untested and subject to interpretation by men who were not completely sold on Union. He fought in the War of 1812, executed his battle plans in the Mexican War with inpunity, captured Mexico City, and was head of the Army at the start of the Civil War. Passed over early and forced into retirement, his ridiculed plan for the subjeguation of the South would, in time, be adopted by subsequent generals.<br /><br />His time coincided with Manifest Destiny and he lived to see the United States evolve from an aggregation of sovereign States to a Nation that filled a continent.  The military was his life, the tool through which he made his contribution to America. Because he made his contributions in our country's formative stages, he has largely been forgotten. But he once strode across the evolving American stage with very big boots. A candidate for President, he left a set of shoes which very few military men have since been able to fill.<br /><br />John Eisenhower's book is a long overdue thank you. Well written with considerable attention to quite interesting detail, this book is as informative as it is entertaining.	2003-12-13
US	50826414	R3A0IOJQ3YBZ07	0471282537	60579388	Jackson's Way: Andrew Jackson and the People of the Western Waters	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	A Very Different Account	John Buchanan has written a most interesting book. Spanning the thirty year period 1780-1810 he covers a time of great uncertainty about just what to do with the existing and projected geographical definition of the fledgling United States. Aaron Burr was not the only person to think in terms of separation. Today, driving on Interstate Highways at 70 MPH through the Appalachian Mountains, it is difficult for us to understand just what an impenetrable barrier these mountains really were. No less a figure than Thomas Jefferson thought \\"whether we remain one confederacy or form into Atlantic and Mississippi confederacies I believe not very important to the happiness of either part.\\"<br />No wonder then that the people of the west, as the west was then defined, drew so closely together and became such an interdependent, insular block. Surrounded by enemies (Great Britain on the North, Spain to the South and West and indifference from their own countrymen to the East), land locked with no natural outlet for their goods and agricultural products and at constant war with Native Americans, this, the fastest growing segment of the US population, was threatened with extinction. Thus, the setting was a tinder box with a truly separate people ready for that particular leader whose interests were not just aligned with but also coincident with their own. <br />Andrew Jackson was such a man. This is a story of survival, a story of great personal courage, of a very independent people who hacked their homes and way of life out of a true wilderness. It is a story of how the foundations of the Jacksonian Era were so firmly laid that the 34 year history of the Virginia Dynasty was so completely crushed in American politics that it never resurrected. An oft overlooked, misunderstood or just plain ignored segment of American history, these thirty years in the west were pivotal to the development of early America. Andrew Jackson was truly THE man, a most amazing force to be reckoned with,and an American to the very core of his soul.	2003-12-12
US	50826414	R357VQ429CWWRN	0292712057	512813044	Battle on the Bay: The Civil War Struggle for Galveston (Texas Classics)	Books	2	6	20	N	N	Amusing.	This is a true, factual account of how a handful of Texans recaptured the Port of Galveston during the Civil War. But it is a book intended, or at least should be intended, for local consumption only.    I do not want to denigrate the heroic bravery of the Northern and Southern soldiers who fought and died in this engagement. Men did fight and die here, ships were captured and some prisoners were taken. But really, to subtitle this book The Civil War Struggle for Galveston is silly. There was no struggle; it was over in an hour. This wasn't Shiloh, Chickamauga, Vicksburg or Gettysburg. Four Union ships stopped by, landed a hundred or so soldiers and got gobbled up due to inadequate support. This happened thousands of times to both sides during the four years of the war.     Nothing of significance happened in Texas during the Civil War. It was just too far from the scene of the contest to have an overland impact. The capture of New Orleans and Vicksburg rendered Texas completely unnecessary as a theater of operations. The actions at Galveston and Sabine Pass were local victories yes, but they only amounted to repulses of minor Yankee probes which subsequently proved unnecessary Union blunders. Sabine Pass: The Confederacy's Thermopylae is another local bombastic claim to fame. Four wooden ships were pushed back.     If you want to focus on a serious and all but forgotten trans Mississippi Confederate victory try Confederate General Richard Taylor's Red River Campaign throughout Louisiana. It defended the critically important supply centers of Shreveport, Louisiana and Jefferson, Texas from a substantive, amphibious Union thrust. An entire Union Division was involved, thousands and thousands of men. Out manned and out gunned, Confederate forces dealt the Union a horrific defeat and almost captured the Union's entire Mississippi River ironclad fleet at Alexandria! It was a most singular campaign. After this engagement Union General Nathanial Banks, a close confidant and personal friend of Abraham Lincoln, never held another command. Red River Campaign: Politics and Cotton in the Civil War by Ludwell H. Johnson is quite excellent.    I realize no Texan will like this review. If you are a Galveston resident or area re-enactor, you may find this book of interest.	2003-12-12
US	50826414	RAVPJV12Y2FMZ	0684867192	792974017	Scandalmonger: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Quite Remarkable!	One of the finest historical novels I have read, William Safire's Scandalmonger is a book about the early tests endured by freedom of the press as defined in the United States Constitution. Based on actual characters and events, Safire brings to life the fundamental freedoms the founding fathers sought to curtail when it suited their tenure in power. The Alien and Sedition Acts were the first assault on our Constitution and occurred at a time when our fledgling Constitution was really a grand set of ideals as opposed to the foundation of American law and liberty that it has evolved into today.<br />Safire's tale is intriguing: Many of our currently venerated heroes, Adams, Monroe, and Jefferson to name just a few, are all shown to have feet of clay. No one individual or group is singled out. All are guilty of trying to deny or to conform freedom to their particular wants, needs and desires. It is actually scary to think that the truth was at one time not an allowable defense against a charge of sedition in the United States.<br />Very broad in scope, yet detailed in its examination, this is a fine work by a very fine author. I can only hope Mr. Safire elects to evaluate and explain the evolution of other freedoms we so thoughtlessly take for granted today.	2003-12-11
US	50826414	R10T9CIR6E4SFY	080907821X	514159811	Pox Americana: The Great Smallpox Epidemic of 1775-82	Books	4	8	9	N	Y	Remarkably Good.	This is an excellent work. It bogs down a bit in the second half but only for 30 or so pages as the author gets into the detail of some purported statistical analysis, information that could have been handled as an appendix. But overall it is a wow!    Starting with the impact of smallpox on the American Revolution, 1775 - 1782, Elizabeth Fenn continues her study with concurrent analyses of Mexico, where Church burial records provide a very solid underpinning for the magnitude of the epidemic, the Canadian interior, the Pacific Northwest and Alaska. The devastation was appalling. Twenty years later George Vancouver would report extended villages in Puget Sound without a soul. Lewis and Clark would report similar Native American villages in the interior that had been deserted for an extended period of time.    Fenn's effort was no simple task. The unexpected bonus is that for the first time I began to understand the magnitude of trading patterns that had been established by Native Americans on the North American Continent, before the arrival of Europeans.    This is a wonderful book, very enlightening and very well worth your time.	2003-11-04
US	50826414	R15JI6TODKTZ3S	0140275002	249467690	Angel in the Whirlwind: The Triumph of the American Revolution	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Outstanding!	This is simply the finest, single volume history of the American Revolution ever written. Remarkably well detailed, this is an excellent addition to the literature surrounding the American independence movement. It should be required reading for every American.	2003-11-01
US	50826414	REWGOUHJUZXW9	0195072596	678161387	The Road to Disunion, Vol. 1: Secessionists at Bay, 1776-1854	Books	2	10	15	N	N	Rough Road!	For a long awaited, monumental study of the South's road to disunion, you had best keep waiting. This is one tough read. There is good history here but this author is very complicated and has a hard time saying just what is on his mind. Was the story really this complex? Yes, it really was. But is it necessary to make a complex series of events murky and unclear? I don't think so. Freehling is a good historian but this is a far cry from his finest effort.	2003-11-01
US	50826414	R3HYBH7COMAZX2	9996416062	18942860	Campaign That Won America: The Story of Yorktown	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Ultimate American Triumph!	The Battle of Yorktown was the final battle in America's War of Independence. Written over 30 years ago, this account is still the standard by which all others are judged.<br />Based upon hundreds of eyewitness accounts and official records, the narrative flows very easily, detailing how Washington combined with Rochambeau and stole a march on the British. This book underscores just how much the United States owes to France. Without French troops and the French Navy, this amazing campaign, which resulted in America capturing its second British Army in the field, could not have been mounted.<br />This is no grade school version of American Independence. It is war in all its gore and all its sacrifice.	2003-11-01
US	50826414	R3LZ0KX4EOI8OW	0805016031	661790467	Daniel Boone: The Life and Legend of an American Pioneer	Books	3	6	10	N	N	America�s First Mountain Man.	This is an interesting book about a simple man who attained mythical proportions. When we think about the mountain men, we think of the explorers of the Rocky Mountains. One hundred years earlier, however, the west included the Eastern slopes of the Appalachian Mountains. Thus, Daniel Boone and men like him were the original mountain men, the men who pushed the frontier to the western slopes of the Appalachians and beyond, all the way to the Mississippi River.<br />This is a reasonably well done rendition of Boone's life. Equally important, however, is the glimpse we get into America's original frontier, the one that existed between the start of the French and Indian War up to and including the Louisiana Purchase.<br />John Mack Faragher does a credible job on a very difficult subject. This book depicts Boone in the same vein as the mountain men of the far west: wanderers to some, explorers to other. Regardless of which camp you fall into, Daniel Boone and the men of his period represent the earliest step in the westward movement that 100 years later would be termed Manifest Destiny<br />Boone's is a life that reflected those first steps.	2003-11-01
US	50826414	R3EWZCZW1IR4UM	0060937351	431993021	Life of Andrew Jackson, The (Perennial Classics)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Electrifying!	After Washington and Lincoln, Andrew Jackson is possibly the most important President in American history, and the most over looked. This book is an abridgement of the author's three volume biography that took 15 years to write. But unlike other abridgements, this one is really quite excellent.     Our first populist president, the first one to truly break the choke hold Virginia's aristocracy had on the formation and development of the early republic, Andrew Jackson was the first Chief Executive to put the American people first.    Remini's Jackson is a man of incredible contrasts. Egotistical yet selfless, hateful yet tender, his devotion to his country is so intense that it borders on chauvinistic. Reckless in the extreme, his explosive temper makes one wonder how he managed to accomplish anything at all. Yet his accomplishments are so paramount and his impact on the development of the early United States so indelible that he has managed to leave a legacy of goodness and of uncorrupted power second to none.    We should all know more about Andrew Jackson. More than any other President he stood fast for the American people. God help the person or country that stood in the way of his serving his people and defending his Nation.	2003-11-01
US	50826414	RUGUBISQ6HNHT	0805061231	510058680	Saratoga: Turning Point of America's Revolutionary War	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Excellent!	Richard M. Ketchum is as good a writer as there is. This account of the Battle of Saratoga during the American Revolution could just be THE definitive work on this subject. <br />As the preface to this book states, at Saratoga the British campaign that was supposed to crush America's rebellion ended instead in a surrender that changed the history of the world. Those 24 words are as succinct as it gets. Who could have guessed that those ragged farmers could have at first cut off and then captured a complete British army in the field? Yet that is exactly what occurred. Along with Yorktown and Cowpens this was one of the few times American forces faced English regulars in a stand up, toe to toe fight and won.<br />Saratoga signaled the ability of American arms and the ferociousness of the American spirit. It destroyed an intricate British campaign to separate New England from the rest of the States and ultimately secured French recognition of American Independence.<br />This is one richly detailed literary effort that truly does describe the turning point of America's Revolutionary War.	2003-10-31
US	50826414	R3EJP5W6BHM8XR	0871135884	183503963	The Long Fuse: How England Lost the American Colonies, 1760-1785	Books	4	1	5	N	Y	British Temper Tantrum.	This is a book about British arrogance. As you read this excellent work, the author lists the continuing, incredible decisions which had to eventually result in and force American Independence. The American Revolution did not occur because colonial Americans did not support their King, but rather, because their King failed his colonists so very, very miserably.	2003-10-27
US	50826414	R1AB0LZN3YQH	0471327166	75102432	The Road to Guilford Courthouse: The American Revolution in the Carolinas	Books	4	14	17	N	Y	Compelling.	Until this book I always associated the battles of the Revolutionary War with those fought in the Northern Colonies: Quebec, Saratoga, Boston, Brooklyn, Brandywine, etc. I had certainly heard of King's Mountain and Cowpens but I had no idea of the savagery or the multiplicity of engagements fought in the Carolinas.<br />This is a book that sets the record straight. From Sullivan's Island to Charleston, from Camden to King's Mountain and from Cowpens to Guilford Courthouse, the fidelity and the zeal of the American Rebellion burned here with an intensity second to none. In fact, the Revolutionary War in the Carolinas was more a civil war than a revolt. Brothers really fought and slew brothers. The British campaign was in reality an intense war of extermination.<br />John Buchanan has delivered the extraordinary sacrifices made to the cause of liberty in a rousing good manner. Written with grace and style, this is an amazing contribution to the literature surrounding the American War for Independence.	2003-10-27
US	50826414	R12R1W7N8AT3US	0811701131	501461338	Old Hickory's War	Books	5	14	15	N	Y	Awesome!	This easily readable, complete account of the origins of the Southeast United States pulls no punches. It is fascinating. I am an unabashed Andrew Jackson admirer. But how he ever got away with what he did confuses me. Aaron Burr was charged with treason and tried four times for only thinking about what Jackson executed with impunity. Timing, as they say, is everything.<br />Frontier justice, combined with an officially unsanctioned invasion of indisputably Spanish sovereign territory, is accomplished without so much as a truly serious international whimper. Jackson simply ignored and crushed ALL domestic opposition. This event has all the improbable content of the most outrageous novel: land based buccaneering, genocide, invasion, forced removal, betrayal and, most of all, proof that in the early stages of this part of what was going to become a major cornerstone of the future United States, that certain political sections of early America's hierarchy believed that might made right. Absolutely no democratic ideals here. I have never read anywhere what this book made me feel but I truly believe this was Jackson's first formal execution of his and other's concept of Manifest Destiny.<br />The authors are excellent. The subject matter is riveting. The local history is fascinating. Jackson is an American original. With all the good he did for his country he had to know that to execute this plan he needed safe harbor in the highest levels of the US government. Thank God he was on our side.	2003-10-27
US	50826414	R3DNCD911BSJ8N	0802117317	204539500	Wagons West: The Epic Story of America's Overland Trails	Books	5	21	22	N	Y	Unbelievably Good!	Frank Mc Lynn had written one of the finest pieces of literature on the subject of the United States' westward migration that has been written. Focusing on the pre California gold rush western expansion, he starts the book with the question, why? He then takes the reader sequentially through each year, 1841-1848, weaving from diaries and journals this epic story of our country's geographic growth. To say that these people were tough is to perfect the English art of understatement.    It is a complex story. The basic drivers are as different as are the dreams that were pursued. Yet this amazing story is unraveled in such incredible detail that the reader is truly left very informed of the events and people, large and small, that make up the fabric of this phase of our Nation's Manifest Destiny. As you turn each page you know that this work took time. The fortitude of the emigrants, the concentric, enabling combination of the mountain men, the missionaries and Britain's Hudson Bay Company and the surprising, early support of the Native Americans, all combine to describe a very different story than that which occurred after the discovery of California gold.     McLynn takes his time but makes sure each moment of the reader's time is satisfying. The result is a really remarkable work, unparalleled anywhere, by anyone else. But in the end there remains the question of why? Why did they do it? Why did they endure? Why did they continue to come, year after year, and in increasing numbers? This is an amazing tale told by a very gifted historian. You will not be disappointed.	2003-10-26
US	50826414	RPRZZKI1WBMUO	0393306402	597302523	Empire of Fortune: Crowns, Colonies, and Tribes in the Seven Years War in America (Reprint)	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	Revisionist French and Indian War.	This is a good, well written and valuable addition to French and Indian War literature. Not only is it a fresh look, it is a refreshing one. There is amazing detail here about people and places other historians only mention in passing. The focus in on the land, how it was apportioned or stolen, depending on your point of view, and of conflicting, contentious, self interest. At risk was an Empire, not only the one that the French, English and Native Americans wanted to control among themselves but also the one that respective Native American interests and tribes sought to influence and dominate within their own race.<br />This is really as good as it gets. Be prepared for a very complete, meticulous read. The third book in a trilogy about pre Revolutionary War America, Francis Jennings has written a winner, an absolutely excellent history of colonial and Native American cause and effect.	2003-10-25
US	50826414	R5DC5EAW9QAG3	0942597745	492582856	Nowhere to Run: The Wilderness, May 4th & 5th, 1864	Books	2	2	12	N	N	Basic Primer.	This is an easy, short read but it leaves the reader feeling like something is missing - like what happens. The first battle in the final campaign of the Civil War, one has to wonder why the author covers a single battle in two volumes and just where that second volume is. What there is of the battle is covered fairly well but the engagement is covered so much better by so many other authors that you would be well served to skip this rendition.	2003-10-25
US	50826414	R3U93Q1XXRTT6O	089029755X	797420427	The Twentieth Maine	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Very Good.	A regimental history that really reflects the combat history of the Army of the Potomac from Antietam to Appomattox, this piece of Civil War literature is well worth your time.    Pullen puts you in the action so effectively that you really begin to wonder how regiments like the Twentieth Maine were able to perform so heroically for so long. Credited with single handedly saving the Union flank the second day at Gettysburg, the 20th Maine produces one of the finest battle field commanders of the war: Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain.    With a combat record second to none, these boys from Maine just may have saved the Union. It is because of their efforts that the United States owes such a deep sense of gratitude to the entire State of Maine.	2003-10-25
US	50826414	R18EF1OQULA1WG	0807854433	226710031	Pemberton: Defender of Vicksburg	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Worthwhile.	This is the story of an interesting, duty bound person caught in a true no win situation. The first nail in his coffin is his simple, straight forward, selfless devotion to duty. The second nail was in not having any awareness of Jefferson Davis' complete duplicity. The third nail is his surrendering an entire Confederate Army while concurrently losing one of the South's most strategic strongholds. His fourth nail, to complete the box, was his forced disobedience of Joe Johnston's order to evacuate Vicksburg.<br />In short, Joe Johnston, the theater commander was right, President Davis, the Army Commander, was wrong and the Union born Pemberton, who obeyed Davis' explicit orders, became the fall guy.<br />Pemberton's Northern birth was just too good an excuse to blame the loss of Vicksburg on and Jefferson Davis, despite his explicit orders to the contrary, truly does let Pemberton take the fall for the loss of Vicksburg, coming as it die on the same day as the Confederate loss at Gettysburg. These two concurrent catastrophes sealed the Confederates doom by eliminating European recognition. Realizing British or French intervention was lost; Jefferson Davis needed someone to finger: Who better than a loyal, foreign born subordinate. <br />Vicksburg was not the Confederacy's or Jefferson Davis' finest hour. But it just might have been John C. Pemberton's. When he met Grant under that now famous oak tree, he had to know he was a discard, that his devotion to duty and to his superiors had caused his ruin and that his reputation could never be salvaged.	2003-10-25
US	50826414	R3686RVZJ45T7Z	0252062299	330824329	No Better Place to Die: The Battle of Stones River (Civil War Trilogy)	Books	3	26	30	N	N	No Punch, No Verve.	This is a very complete, very detailed account of the Battle of Stones River but it lacks the intensity of other works by Peter Cozzens. As a result, I was disappointed with the narrative. However, it is a good work, deserving of your time. <br />Fought by two mediocre generals, Braxton Bragg and William S. Rosecrans, this engagement was intense and ugly. As the 24,000 casualties indicate, once begun, there was little strategy involved. The opposing armies simply mauled each other. <br />As mention in my review of Stones River by James Lee McDonough, this was the first major battle in the Union's plan to seize the Nashville-Chattanooga-Atlanta corridor. Claimed by many to be a tactical draw, it was a Southern defeat of the worst sort. The South lost control of an invaluable asset, middle Tennessee's railroads. It is from this spring board that Union armies once again sliced the Confederacy in two. <br />If you are a Peter Cozzens fan as I am, know ahead of time that this is not Peter Cozzens at his best.	2003-10-21
US	50826414	R3BTVF88KJYIC8	0060922540	142937770	From Sea to Shining Sea: From the War of 1812 to the Mexican War; The Saga of America's Expansion	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Remarkable Accomplishment!	Very few books cover our nation's Manifest Destiny as well as this one does. Robert Leckie is at his absolute best.<br />Starting at the end of the American Revolution and continuing through the close of the Mexican War, Leckie covers every aspect of our nation's territorial expansion. War with the Barbary Pirates, the War of 1812, the Louisiana Purchase, the impact of Texas Independence and its subsequent annexation are all covered in complete detail.<br />Written in Leckie's straight forward, hurried, rushing style, this is a book that definitely will not disappoint. It is a pleasure to read and, if you are like me, it is a book you will enjoy more than once.	2003-10-13
US	50826414	R2AI37N2ZWBOH8	0912172258	488688997	Cry Comanche: The 2nd U.S. Cavalry in Texas, 1855-1861	Books	1	3	6	N	N	Great Title, Boring Book.	Purporting to be the history of the 2nd US Cavalry in Texas, this has to be one of the driest pieces of literature I have read in quite a while.<br />Known as Jeff Davis' Own this unit comes into being just prior to the Civil War. The great majority of its officers were Southern by birth and West pointers by training. This unit provided one half of the South's full generals at the start of the Civil War.<br />A story of patrol and boredom, that is exactly the way it reads	2003-10-08
US	50826414	R3QV9RND47T92A	0803251513	392940779	Broadax and Bayonet: The Role of the United States Army in the Development of the Northwest, 1815-1860	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Quite Interesting.	For those of us today that would like to think that the role of the US Army should be only fighting wars, you need to read this book. From the very founding of our nation, our Army has served as both an instrument of waging war and an instrument of waging peace. This book goes a long way to defining the Army's role in the settlement of the Old Northwest. The author reviews the Army's roles in public works, the building of public roads, its taming of the wilderness, its scientific achievements and its role as frontier policeman.     This is a short work but a very good companion to Robert Utley's Frontiersmen in Blue. In times of peace, the American military's impact is every bit as important to the development and protection of America as it is in time of war. This excellent little book reveals that the Army has always been an instrument of America's development and most likely always will be.	2003-10-08
US	50826414	R1FEPL4RBOICVE	0394495179	152594585	The Civil War, 3-Volume Box Set	Books	5	2	7	N	N	Amazing.	This is the most incredible story I have ever read. It took Shelby Foote 20 years to write and me 3 years to read. I was disappointed when I finished it. It was like losing an old friend.<br />I do not think there is a better, more complete, more definitive work on the American Civil War, yet remember this is a novel. Well researched and written this is a trilogy to compare with the very best. Bruce Catton is excellent; Shelby Foote is just much better.<br />Be very careful, one you start you will not want to stop.	2003-10-06
US	50826414	R1JU2ICIOS7M28	0870493019	851668416	Stones River: Bloody Winter in Tennessee	Books	4	9	13	N	N	Bar Room Brawl!	This bloody Murfreesboro, Tennessee battle became a turning point in the central theater of the Civil War. Starting with a Confederate surprise attack, 24,000 casualties would be inflicted on both sides before the Union army would awake to find the Confederate army having deserted the field three days later. Fought by two mediocre generals, Braxton Bragg and William S. Rosecrans, this engagement was intense and ugly. Once begun, there was little strategy involved. The opposing armies simply mauled each other. <br />Stones River was the first major battle in the Union's plan to seize the Nashville-Chattanooga-Atlanta corridor. Claimed by many to be a tactical draw, it was a Southern defeat of the worst sort. The South lost control of an invaluable asset, middle Tennessee's railroads. It is from this spring board that Union armies once again sliced the Confederacy in two.	2003-10-06
US	50826414	R2H9O6XQZ0A9MF	1854092391	302100797	Lethal Glory: Dramatic Defeats of the Civil War	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Worthwhile.	Lethal Glory is a collection of 15 Civil War defeats, some very dramatic, in which the victors, through incompetence or ignorance, never followed up on their accomplishments. What makes this book valuable is that it focuses on small as well as large actions. Thus, while the author focuses on some larger signal defeats like Fort Donelson, Fredericksburg and Pickett's charge, he also details many smaller actions, fights often overlooked by other writers. Engagements like Battery Wagner, Ball's Bluff, Fort Pillow and Centralia are reviewed in significant detail.<br />Very well written, this book contains a very complete bibliography.	2003-10-05
US	50826414	R32BT9BC1SXMM8	0395663601	873978864	For Country Cause and Leader: The Civil War Journal of Charles B. Haydon	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Real!	This is as good a set of personal reflections as you will ever read by an amazing combat soldier. From his induction, training and initial taste of Army life Charles B. Haydon puts you on guard duty and allows you to experience boredom, nasty weather, and interminable marches. Along the way you will fight for the Union at Bull Run, participate in the Penninsula campaign, particularly the fight at Williamsburg, the fight at Fredericksburg and to top it off, the sieges of Vicksburg and Knoxville.     Haydon was a gifted writer who rises from the ranks to become a lieutenant colonel. Oddly, he dies in Cincinnati of pneumonia. His is a most unusual journal. He was very sincere about being a good soldier and performed flawlessly under intense, continuous combat. These are the personal reminiscences of a very good man, selflessly devoted to his men, his comrades and to his country.    You will not be disappointed.	2003-09-28
US	50826414	R5J1YXN0ABUNW	0394564820	586694728	The Civil War in the American West	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Wish There Were 6 Stars!	This is an unusually good work. Focusing on the Civil War west of the Mississippi, the author covers not only the major North-South actions, but also the Indian actions which were necessary as well. There is full coverage of the Bayou Teche campaign in Louisiana, Pea Ridge, New Mexico, the Red River Campaign, the Minnesota Sioux uprising, Sabine Pass, the War on the western migration routes, the Mormons, etc, etc.<br />This is as good as it gets. The writing is clear and concise, the events sequential. This history is written so well that at times you will think you are reading a suspense novel. This is a very excellent work by a good historian who just also happens to be a gifted writer.	2003-09-27
US	50826414	R15MMAEW6R7AE0	1879664054	495091598	Crisis at the Crossroads: The First Day at Gettysburg	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Refreshing.	Hassler's depiction of the first day at Gettysburg is a no nonsense work that pleases from the get-go. An excellent history, this book details and asserts that the engagements fought here, northeast of and through the town of Gettysburg, were the keys to the Union's victory. Most current analysts agree.<br />This is an easily digested read. The writing style is fluid and to the point. The tactical decisions on both sides are detailed right down to the unit commanders. You sense the fear and guts of this first day of battle. An altogether worthwhile effort, this is Civil War literature you can read with gusto.	2003-09-27
US	50826414	R1ATSNDDC66VJJ	0195127420	480700536	Lone Star Justice: The First Century of the Texas Rangers	Books	2	6	22	N	N	Meaningless Effort.	I am not sure what I read. Whatever it was, it was not what the title asserted. Thin and vaccous, the history is not grappled with. The reader is left with the feeling that the author pulled back from his subject matter.<br />Everything is big in Texas, especially our tall tales. Whopper telling is a prideful art form. No where is it practiced to perfection better than in the telling of how this great state came to be. Separating fact from myth and outright fiction is a very difficult thing to do even for a respected historian like Robert M. Utley. At best this book is the most general of overviews. You will find nothing new here.	2003-09-27
US	50826414	R1LLR53TCWSTCA	1879664119	17047671	The Great Invasion of 1863 or General Lee in Pennsylvania: The Battle of Gettysburg, General Lee in Pennsylvania	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Impressive.	Written twenty years after the Battle of Gettysburg, Jacob Hoke delivered the definitive work on this subject, one that endures to this day. A citizen of Chambersburg, Pennsylvania his work is told mostly from a Union viewpoint. Hoke spends very worthwhile time setting the stage for the engagement, examining the key tactical drivers and their impact on the final outcome.<br />Despite Chambersburg being subsequently burned to the ground by the Confederacy, Hoke delivers a very balanced view of what occurred in very early July 1863. The writing is clear and uncluttered, the book is well organized and easy to absorb. Long a standard reference work on this subject, this work deserves to be read again and again.	2003-09-27
US	50826414	R18U1IZYH588YL	081172980X	496103006	Vicksburg: 47 Days of Siege	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Intriguing.	While most other Union generals are having a difficult time finding their hindquarters with both hands, Grant's Vicksburg siege allows him to capture his second complete Confederate Army in the field. By doing so he opens the Mississippi and literally splits the Confederacy in two.<br />This book details the 47 days of siege as it unfolded and resulted in the Western theater victory that would enable the Union to begin those operations which would ultimately crush the Southern Rebellion. Told from the viewpoint of those engaged on both sides, this story is at once poignant and powerful. Easily read, A.A. Hoehling has delivered a must read, detailing the fears and sorrows, the frustrations and death experienced by both sides.<br />Well done.	2003-09-27
US	50826414	R386K4KA9RO979	0028810864	364846015	Confederate Raider: Raphael Semmes of the Alabama	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Very Good.	This is an easy and enjoyable read, chronicling the life of Raphael Semmes, the South's preeminent commerce raider.<br />Rising from the obscurity of Washington, D.C.'s bureaucracy, Raphael Semmes's goes to sea the age 54 and never returns home until his ship, the CSS Alabama is sunk by the USS Kearsarge off Cherbourg, France toward the end of the Civil War. Along the way he assembles a list of victories that would make any successful naval commander blush.<br />But is that good enough for Semmes? After his defeat, he returns from France to the Confederacy. Avoiding the Union blockade by entering Matamoros, Mexico, he makes his way overland to Richmond where he not only is in charge of the Confederate Navy presence during the fall of Richmond, but he also subsequently is responsible for protecting the Confederacy's Treasury during the Presidential escape from Richmond.<br />Raphael Semmes is a true Confederate hero who again out foxes his Union counterparts in the final days of the war.	2003-09-24
US	50826414	R11QFA9I4GL5XE	1572490322	805723596	Monocacy: The Battle That Saved Washington	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Well Done.	This is a very interesting treatment of an often times overlooked battle.<br />Monocacy was the high water mark of the Confederacy's third and final invasion of the North. The chronological sequencing enables the author to tell a very balanced story, one that reflects not only the inadequacies of both sides during this engagement, but also reflects each side's total commitment to the death throes then currently occurring around Richmond and Petersburg.<br />Excellent maps with even better text, the author impresses upon the reader just how close a thing this really was. Best summed up by a Union soldier who simply said, &quot;Early was late,&quot; Cooling really captures the essence of this campaign. It was desperate, on both sides.	2003-09-24
US	50826414	R37BSRRME4UNPB	0781805023	753986348	Uncertain Glory: Lee's Generalship Re-Examined	Books	3	4	8	N	N	Maverick Thoughts	No one will ever accuse John D. McKenzie of writing a crowd pleaser. This is a very poorly written piece of literature. However, books like this are healthy and McKenzie's effort needs to be applauded.    Most books on the Civil War were written by Southerners. As such they attempt to explain away the obvious, like why the Confederacy failed so very miserably. The general theme in traditional Southern writing is that the best of breed was in the South. The South was on superior moral high ground and had the best, most intelligent people. But this position presents a bit of a conundrum: If Southerners were so superior, why did they start this fight in the first place when by their own admission the North had more of everything?    McKenzie's book represents the start of a good trend in Civil War literature. Both sides fought hard, both had incredible successes and both had amazing blunders. Gods did not fight this war, men did. And all of the men engaged, even Robert E. Lee, should justifiably be the subject of re-examination as he is in this work.    This is a book well worth reading. It probes. In the process, it asks some very interesting questions.	2003-09-22
US	50826414	R318AS136EQW71	0471390208	990023836	"A Few Acres of Snow": The Saga of the French and Indian Wars	Books	1	8	10	N	Y	Awful.	I am an unabashed fan of Robert Leckie's works but this effort is poor at best. There really is nothing new here. Most of this work is of exceedingly poor quality, no footnotes, no bibliography, and no substantiation of the story being told. Altogether, it is an amazing disappointment.	2003-09-21
US	50826414	R1OV5OHB1G92W6	0813190002	907691535	Albert Sidney Johnston: Soldier of Three Republics	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Balanced.	This is the story of a very interesting life. A good soldier and a fine man, Albert Sidney Johnston served in the background for so long that history questions his ability to rise to the top. <br />Adept at politics and administration, his leadership remains questioned despite involvement in the Black Hawk Indian War in Illinois, the protection of the early Texas Republic and frontier, the War with Mexico, the Mormon Campaign, and the stability of pre Civil War California.<br />Killed at Shiloh, the first top Confederate commander to die during the war, his death leaves the question of an unfulfilled life and thoughts of what might have been. His involvement in so many of the key areas associated with the early stages of this nation's Manifest Destiny, his life is an important one, one that impacts the long procession of events that lead up to the Civil War.<br />He is a person worth knowing about.	2003-09-21
US	50826414	R1W9ZTVI9OC00K	0195038630	345581260	Battle Cry of Freedom: The Civil War Era	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Phenomenal.	This fine work is simply the best single volume history on the American Civil War ever written. Complete, thorough and very readable, this scholarly yet practical history is the best cause and effect analysis to date of the event which spawned the America that exists as we know it today. It is a most detailed account of the complete redefinition of what America was to stand for. Very compelling, you will want to read this excellent book two or three times.	2003-09-21
US	50826414	R1XJCFG54HXZ7O	0785814477	143046422	A Life Wild and Perilous	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Sweeping!	This is a very good compendium of the principal players in the early American West. This former historian for the National Park Service knows his stuff and has produced an engaging, yet very scholarly book. It is a story of early exploration and commerce. In it you will meet all of the principal mountain men from John Colter and Jedediah Smith to Kit Carson, Joe Meek and Jim Bridger. Laid out in a very chronological fashion it covers the period from just after the Lewis and Clark Expedition up to the mid 1850's. It is a remarkable story of grit and determination as displayed by a series of unique individuals, who, it turns out, knew each other well. A fun read with some absolutely remarkable maps, Utley brings his subjects to life and details the amazing contributions these men made to America as we geographically know it today.	2003-09-21
US	50826414	RAW9R1030NUCV	0060921161	719751141	None Died in Vain: The Saga of the American Civil War	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Impressive.	Robert Leckie doesn't mince words. He writes in a rush. His writing is compact, succinct, and to the point yet he provides good detail for those events that warrant it. He does not waste time, yours or his.<br />This is a writer on a mission. His reader has no doubt where he stands. You will not find much gray here; he is a historian who sees cause and effect, black and white. He is focused, circumspect, acerbic, hilarious and truthful.<br />The result is that None Died in Vain is one of the finest single volume histories on the American Civil War. This book is not short or superficial. When you are done with Leckie's 658 pages, you will know what happened and why. You will know all the principle characters, the good ones and the bad ones who struggled for their respective sides.<br />This book is fun. This book is well written. This book is all you need to gain a very solid understanding of what occurred.	2003-09-05
US	50826414	R3QFCXRHEVP8N1	087928031X	921139657	Story of the Great March	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Sobering.	This is the Civil War diary of Major George Ward Nichols, aide-de-camp to General William T. Sherman during the latter part of the war. It is a personal story, describing his experiences during Sherman's March to the Sea and the subsequent march through the Carolinas. <br />For a personal journal it is surprisingly well written and describes this journey as a decidedly uncertain endeavor. Written in the vernacular of the time, it provides a unique insight into the operations and risks associated with the most singular military event of the war.	2003-09-01
US	50826414	R36OIM3NTX7U9J	0803257538	603227983	Bent's Fort	Books	4	17	19	N	Y	Surprising	Despite all we read, this is the first book that made me realize that there were two Old Wests. The first really starts with the fur trade; the second starts with the flood tide of white immigration. Somewhere along this continuum, Native Americans effectively disappear as economic units and as cultures. The focus of this book is on the first West, including its transition into the second.<br />This then is the story of the early west, when the first white emigration was necessarily in balance not only with the aboriginal inhabitants but also with the valid claims of Spain, Mexico, Great Britain and Russia. It is a story of intense competition, the story of a hugely successful commercial empire that really opened this vast section of the American West. It is the story of the Santa Fe Trail, the main route of commerce between St. Louis and Santa Fe, and the people who sought to control it. It is the story of men and women, of the lives and fortunes of those who developed and experienced this commercial thoroughfare.<br />As a history it is mesmerizing. As a yarn it is eye popping. As a series of events it is unbelievable. A critical part of the Nation's Manifest Destiny, it is the story of human endurance, of culture clash, war, survival, success and failure. But mostly it is the story of a very logical, continual development, a transition, one that will make you proud to be an American.	2003-09-01
US	50826414	R2CNT1PCGZFJ24	0375706364	123472120	Crucible of War: The Seven Years' War and the Fate of Empire in British North America, 1754-1766	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Outstanding!	By far the finest, most incredibly complete account of the Seven Years War I have read todate, treating England's conflict and awesome achievement as a massive global effort, as opposed to just our North American version, The French and Indian War. I better understand the role of this intense event in the slow formation of colonial American resistance to Britain. Independance took almost 30 years to occur and the subject matter, (the pros and the cons, the rights and the wrongs (pun intended)) is dealt with impecably. <br />As you read this excellent work, you can almost tick off on your fingertips the incredible British blunders which had to eventually result in and force American independance. The American Revolution did not occur because colonial Americans did not support their King, but rather, because their King failed his colonists so very, very miserably.	2003-08-24
US	50826414	R3PERCFGD8FKMV	0803252129	131924935	Indian War of 1864 (Bison Book)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Vivid.	I picked this book up by mistake. What a wonderful mistake. <br />This is a first hand account of the Indian War of 1864. In terms of its chronological time slot, these remembrances of Captain Eugene F. Ware, Seventh Iowa Cavalry, fit smack in the middle of the flood tide of Western migration from all parts of the east. Captain Ware's responsibilities were to keep the overland migration routes free from Indian attack while simultaneously protecting the Indians from white depredations. The story depicted is one of continual conflict resolution, long, weary hours of patrol, inadequate manpower and intense exposure to drought, flood, heat and cold. It is a story of fifteen mile wagon trains, vast buffalo herds and space, truly wide open space. It is a story of the OLD west, that which existed before fences and cattle ranches, before complex Indian reservation systems and most of all, a time when Native American tribes were still a force to be reckoned with. It is extremely well written.<br />That portion of the trail which Eugene Ware patrolled is today Interstate 80 as it passes through western Nebraska.	2003-08-17
US	50826414	R3O29S959C2E6G	0809444542	365541337	Three Months in the Southern States: April-June, 1863 (Collector's Library of the Civil War)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Very Interesting.	Succinct yet powerful, this volume is a treasure trove of information. The personal observations of Colonel Arthur J.L. Fremantle of His Majesty's Coldstream Guards, this volume covers his travels and experiences as a British Army observer from his landing at Matamoras, Mexico up to and including his observations at the Battle of Gettysburg. Fremantle is extremely observant. This short, quick read describes conditions, thoughts and attitudes in the South during the spring and summer of 1863. It is surprisingly well written. Colonel Fremantle had an eye for detail that is second to none.	2003-08-17
US	50826414	R2GBUQNS4SK7KM	0060927453	680571095	Marching Through Georgia: The Story of Soldiers and Civilians During Sherman's Campaign	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Total Dominance!	This is as complete an analysis of General Sherman's Georgia Campaign, his famous March to the Sea, as you will ever read. Starting in Dalton and ending in Savannah, the total event is here: The participants, the politics, the strategy, the horror and, most importantly, the impact. <br />Stating that he would make Georgia howl, Sherman proceeded to do just that. In the process he demonstrated not only to the North but also to the South that this war was over. Southern armies were no longer contending against Northern aggression. They were swamped by it. They could no longer contain this conflict.<br />Sherman's March is the signal event of the War. It is unique. It was not fought against an enemy army. It was not fought to achieve a strategic position. It was not fought to out flank or surprise. It was fought to destroy an enemy's heart and soul, against an enemy's will to resist. And it succeeded admirably.<br />The March demonstrated beyond a doubt the fundamental weakness of the South, the uncontestable dominance of the North and the complete futility of further resistance. It spelled defeat more accurately than any other event in the War's four year history. It demonstrated that the South could no longer defend itself, that they couldn't do a thing about it. It demonstrated that the South was whipped.<br />This is an excellent account of what transpired.	2003-08-15
US	50826414	RE1NE9UWQR4M1	0807115789	561179159	That Devil Forrest: Life of General Nathan Bedford Forrest	Books	5	69	72	N	N	Excellent!	Nathan Bedford Forrest was one interesting character. A self made millionaire, most definitely an entrepreneur by today's standards, he was a maverick in every facet of his life. Shelby Foote called him the only genius, other than Abraham Lincoln, that the Civil War produced: High praise indeed.<br />It is easy, with the benefit of hindsight, to paint him with the brush of evil and dismiss him. Slave trader, first Grand Dragon of the Klu Klux Klan, the Ft. Pillow massacre, these are not the calling cards of sainthood. But if we try to view life as he saw it, if we can empathize with him enough to where we can react to his environment, during his times and with his skill set, then maybe we can come close to understanding Mr. Foot's comment.<br />The Southern High Command did not develop senior generals well. They anointed 8 at the start of hostilities. Without exception, those that weren't killed or injured were still in charge of things at the end of the war. Forrest was one of the few who earned the right to fill the ranks of those who fell.<br />Independent, devoted to the cause and goal driven he pounds his way to the top. One of his key adversaries, William Tecumseh Sherman, gives him his finest accolade with the words 'that Devil Forrest'. He is a tenacious fighter and good at his job. Judge for yourself, but no one on either side fought under greater hardship, with fewer resources, while amassing a string of truly pivotal victories than he did. No Lost Cause apologia here, Forrest is the genuine article, a true Confederate war hero. You may not wind up liking him but you will wind up respecting him.	2003-08-14
US	50826414	RORPZTVQ796VT	0826314171	18451817	Nine Years Among the Indians, 1870-1879: The Story of the Captivity and Life of a Texan Among the Indians	Books	4	24	28	N	N	Stunning	An absolutely mesmerizing account of the capture, survival and ultimately return to frontier Fredericksburg, Texas. An insiders look at Native American existence, its differing cultures, its taboos and its different forms of organization. It is not a pretty picture.	2003-08-03
US	50826414	R19U3JQJ411ZX3	1570719454	433482862	Jefferson's Great Gamble: The Remarkable Story of Jefferson, Napoleon and the Men Behind the Louisiana Purchase	Books	2	3	5	N	Y	Confusing	This is a very difficult read: It IS difficult to read and it is impossible to agree with. <br />The author takes his reader down so many side streets and back alleys that at times the story being told is lost. A clearer rendition would improve readability, define the fact trail and clarify the necessary interpretations. More time should have been spent focusing on the very real threat of war with France and the intensity of the negotiation. Less time should have been spent on the character development of the principal players. <br />I came away feeling the story was forced to fit a preordained conclusion. At a minimum, the fact interpretation is faulty. For example, Louisiana became a state in 1812. The Battle of New Orleans was fought in 1815. How could the Battle of New Orleans have \\"finally secured\\" the Louisiana Purchase when a part, and at the time, the key part, of the original purchase had been admitted to the Union over two years earlier? If we went to war over the Brits stealing our citizens off our ships, does the author really think we would have allowed them to keep a state? Especially when the battle was fought 2 weeks after the war ended? <br />This is not as good an effort as it could have been. This book is clouded at best.	2003-07-29
US	50826414	R2D83SZ1NCB6AI	1566634903	758108321	Seduced by the West: Jefferson's America and the Lure of the Land Beyond the Mississippi (Lewis & Clark Expedition)	Books	2	1	4	N	Y	Not Too Good	This is not as good a work as it had the potential of being. At 199 pages it is short, made shorter still by small pages with large type. <br />Bouncing from topic to topic, it is an uncoordinated effort. It appears to have been rushed. There are so many ibids and multiple referrals to the same source material in the bibliography that you begin to wonder just how much work went into the research behind it. I was sorry I purchased it.	2003-07-10
US	50826414	R28TFYRZ8O6P5I	1566631351	270621035	Building the Continental Empire: American Expansion from the Revolution to the Civil War (American Ways Series)	Books	5	0	1	N	Y	Excellent	This short work is packed with more good, succinct information than any book I have read. Well researched, well written, William Weeks makes you want more of him. This is a must read.	2003-07-10
US	50826414	R1Z68FXE6GOLC0	0786884517	22123758	The Pirate Hunter: The True Story of Captain Kidd	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Really Good !	Not only is the poignant story of Captain Kidd's life fascinating, this book yields a rich compendium of information concerning:<BR>*The importance of piracy to the American colonies<BR>*The incredible global nature of it<BR>*The very common practice of legalized piracy (privateers)   between warring nations of the time<BR>*And the importance of the Caribbean Wars, their impact on Europe and the Americas.<BR>Well written and researched, this book is a bit of an eye opener, one you will be glad you spent time with.	2003-07-10
US	50826414	R2HF2JEVZ4XC6D	0811730611	434752497	Sheridan in the Shenandoah: 2nd Edition (Stackpole)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Excellent	A fine account of a most interesting and crucial series of Civil War battles. Stackpole treats everyone very fairly. Broad in its scope, audacious in its execution this book analyzes the Confederacy's third and final invasion of the North. A very excellent work that is well worth the time.	2002-12-05
US	50826414	R1MIBCZX7UXBHX	0684803755	520140173	Shiloh: The Battle That Changed the Civil War	Books	3	22	24	N	N	Well Done	Although sometimes difficult to read, this is a is a well written, researched and documented analysis of the Battle of Shiloh. The first of the Civil War's major battles, the 23,000 Union and Confederate casualties that were experienced in 2 days of fighting at this Northern Mississippi, Tennessee River crossing were more than all the casualties incurred in all of America's previous wars combined. North and South did not clash here, they bludgeoned each other.<br />Long the subject of controversy, Shiloh's participants and contemporaries left a legacy of acrimonious discussion and creative revisionism that continues today. Larry Daniel's book goes a long way to getting this signal Civil War battle back to its proper perspective. Within two months of this defeat, the South lost 15,000 square miles of its Nation, including Memphis, Tennessee, all of the upper Mississippi River forts from Columbus, Kentucky to just above Vicksburg, Mississippi and, eventually, New Orleans, Louisiana, the Souths' largest city and one of its finest ports. <br />This is a step by step analysis of the uncertainty, blunders and lack of tactics as well as the fortitude, bravery and selflessness displayed by both sides. Many real heroes were born here. Many armchair and political heroes were defrocked. It was a true blood bath in the worst sense of the concept, setting the stage for Antietam, Vicksburg, Chickamauga, Gettysburg, Chancellorsville and all the horrors that came after. It defined the antagonists' resolve and defined each sector's devotion to its cause: The South's completely focused commitment to their definition of freedom and the North's completely focused dedication to their definition of Union.	2002-10-15
US	50826414	R24S1SX1H3H61L	0803295502	777273154	Frontiersmen in Blue: The United States Army and the Indian, 1848-1865	Books	4	33	34	N	N	Amazing Undertaking	In this book Robert Utley describes in significant detail the operations of the United States and Volunteer Armies in the American West. Until this book I never quite grasped the magnitude of the problem involved, the competing vested interests, the vast distances covered and the logistical nightmares the Army faced.<br />Detailing the regional conflicts sequentially, Utley delivers a complete analysis of the battles, campaigns and treaties involved in conquering of the American West. I never realized how many battles, skirmishes and firefights were fought. I never realized how complex the politics surrounding the Army's operations were. And most of all I never realized how limited the Army's resources of men and material were. <br />It is truly stupefying what was accomplished in the seventeen years, 1848 - 1865, between the end of the War with Mexico and the close of the  U.S. Civil War. With few exceptions all the tribes of the Pacific and those of the Great Basin were subjugated. At the same time, the foundations for the subsequent conquering of the tribes of the Great Plains, Texas and American Southwest were formulated.<br />The final act of Manifest Destiny was the subjugation of the Native Americans. This is the story of how that process was begun.	2002-10-07
US	50826414	RY3V59M3ACQKH	025201703X	479319793	This Terrible Sound: The Battle of Chickamauga (Civil War Trilogy)	Books	5	18	22	N	N	Powerful!	If you want to know more about Chickamauga, you cannot do any better than this. <br />Chickamauga is the pivotal Civil War battle for the central South. Here the South literally wins the battle while subsequently suffering a series of calamitous defeats, the ultimate loss of Chattanooga all the way down to and including Atlanta. <br />If you are a detail freak who still wants to smell the powder and hear the battle, this is for you. If you are not, skim the incredible detail, this is still for you. Cozzens style IS different: He gets it right. His are the most detailed accounts I certainly have ever read. Yet, while he delivers the most incredible detail, he delivers the battle as well, hour by hour and minute by minute.<br />And this was an awesome battle, one of the worst ever fought on the North American continent. Out are the then current leaders Rosecrans, Bragg and Halleck. The South's continuing, and truly horrid villain is Jefferson Davis. The ascending stars are ultimately Grant and Sherman, and they have not even appeared on this scene yet. The Union hero of the day is George Thomas, a Virginian, who is subsequently treated very poorly by his country. Lincoln proves vigilant and resilient as always, adjusting the Union game plan with excellent decisions.<br />If you want to know more about one of the most pivotal and vicious fights between North and South, make time for this excellent work. While a brilliant Southern victory, it was the South's best earned, long term tactical defeat. While a humiliating Union battlefield catastrophe, it just may have resulted in one of the Union's finest hours.	2002-09-25
US	50826414	RGZ09V790MS79	0671675621	5679789	Patriots: The Men Who Started the American Revolution	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Excellent	This is a must read. Well written, well documented and easily read.	2002-09-16
US	50826414	R1IIRCV52HL73W	1559702192	872387159	La Salle: Explorer of the North American Frontier	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	Very Credible	Well written and well documented, this book justifies France's North American claims like no other has. It is a very compelling account of one of North America's greatest explorers.	2002-09-16
US	50826414	R3T2E3KCHTEF48	0937117064	782435958	War in the Woods: The Day the United States Began : July 9, 1755	Books	3	5	5	N	Y	Somewhat Silly	This really is a good way to learn a little bit of history. And it is a good novel. But other than the Title's assertion, this is not necessarily good history. But it really is quite entertaining.	2002-09-16
US	50826414	R2OEFF6RAZAC1A	1557503532	530347458	Admiral David Dixon Porter: The Civil War Years	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Very Good	An interesting and well written biography of a key and often overlooked Civil War participant.<br />The role of the Federal and Confederate Navies in the War Between the States has been neglected by almost all historians. Why? Most of the more colorful, decisive actions, the events that sell books, were fought on land.<br />This is a different type of story from a refreshingly different point of view. It is exciting and enlightening. The Federals could not have won without their excellent Navy, whose role was every bit as crucial as their Army's. This is as good an account of the U.S. Navy's role in the Union's Civil War victory as there is. Viewed through the life of David Dixon Porter, it is a fine testament to the Navy and the man	2002-06-14
US	50826414	RKAIOLSSFAOJT	0803283644	385110203	Frémont: Pathmarker of the West	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Arrogance and Ignorance	John Fremont's life reads like a Shakespearean tragedy. Starting in poverty and successively riding waves of amazing success only to be followed by equally amazing blunders, Fremont's life is a study in how to be one's own worst enemy. One of the subsequent followers of Lewis and Clark in exploring the American West, he makes three separate explorations that in total really puts the original 1803 expedition to shame. First Republican Presidential Candidate, California's first U.S. Senator, a multimillionaire during the California Gold Rush and a ranking Union general at the outbreak of the Civil War, he is also dragged home after the war with Mexico from California in chains, is responsible for the annihilation of one of his Western expeditions, is relieved of command by Lincoln after ignoring a Presidential directive and dies alone in comparative poverty after begging Congress for a pension.<br />This is a fascinating life and Nevins does a remarkable job of very unbiased research. You will either love Fremont or hate him or, more likely, simply feel sorry for him.	2002-06-08
US	50826414	R26SU237KC177Q	1572491264	421439594	Pickett Leader of the Charge: A Biography of General George E. Pickett, C.S.A	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Well Done	This is a good work. Other than the Gettysburg charge, before reading this book I did not know George Picket very well. I only got glimpses of him from various readings: Chapultepec, the Penninsula Campaign, Bermuda Hundred, Five Forks, etc. And in those various readings never once did anyone take him to task, making him account for himself like Longacre does.<br />What we have here is a complex aristocrat, a fighter, whose personal attributes estranged the majority of his superiors (Lee and Jefferson Davis to name a few) but one whose loyalty and devotion to Confederate Independence made him indispensable to their efforts .<br />He is difficult to like. He deserts a son, is a heavy drinker, is a panderer and is a political maneuverer in the worst sense of the concept. But we also have a person who personifies loyalty, who serves to the very end, under privation, while absorbing every imaginable insult from his superiors along the way. He may have made some serious errors but he always obeyed orders, remained steadfast, even when he must have known he had been identified as expendable. Above all else he served, served, served.<br />Longacre does a remarkably good job of brining Picket to life. Even more important than Picket is the wonderful glimpse we get into the workings of the Confederate High Command. A very valuable additional plus is the myriad of interesting historical antidotes that will make the most serious student of the Civil War stop and say, \\"I didn't know that.\\"<br />No Lost Cause apologia, here you get all the warts. This one is definitely worth the time.	2002-06-07
US	50826414	R3V5MT6KC6TPRR	0806119780	387315326	Rock of Chickamauga: The Life of General George H. Thomas	Books	4	24	24	N	N	Refreshing	Written over 52 years ago, this book is a ground breaking contribution to the Civil War's saga. It really is a must read for understanding the intricacies of the Union high command. <br />Union loyalists of Southern birth like Thomas, Buford, etc. were just as alone and alienated in their army as Southern loyalists of Northern birth like Pemberton. They suffered an ostracism, a fundamental distrust that really reached its peak in this country when we sent thousands and thousands of Japanese Americans to concentration camps in California in World War II while concurrently having their sons fight and die in Europe. Thomas' story is really no different and every bit as unfair.<br />This type of unfortunate, `protective tuck' is a natural reaction during a national emergency. Fortunately, leading edge historians like Freeman Cleaves have left us a record of one man's sacrifice for the country of his birth.<br />George Thomas was not treated properly by anyone, North or South. Lincoln treats him as a political liability and pawn, Stanton fundamentally distrusts  everyone of Southern heritage, and the Union troika of Grant, Sherman and Sheridan have much to be ashamed of: Grant for his smallness, Sheridan for the desertion of someone who must have been his mentor and Sherman for betraying a long standing friendship. The South simply refused to acknowledge his existence. When Thomas was down, everyone kicked. Being Southern born, he was an easy competitive target for both sides both during and after the war. He simply had no mentor anywhere.<br />Yet this courageous fighter survives much political intrigue to not only save a complete Union army from annihilation, an army by the way that he did not personally command but could have, but also completely destroys the South's Army of Tennessee and possibly, just possibly, pulled Sherman and Grant's chestnuts out of the fire with his victories at Nashville and Franklin. Playing a key and fundamentally pivotal role in Grant andSherman's grand strategy, after his success he is simply thrown aside like an old shoe and not just forgotten but treated miserably, like his very existence, success and support was an embarrassment to the Union military and political High Command.<br />Read this book! It is about an American patriot who sacrifices everything, his reputation, home, family and pre and post war friendships for the ability of the United States to develop into the world example it is today. It is the kind of story all Americans appreciate: doing the right thing while succeeding against all odds, foreign and domestic.	2002-05-27
US	50826414	R22RC7DCRNZSZW	0553103148	224398425	1863: The Rebirth of a Nation	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Compelling!	An all together wonderful work. The best chronological compendium I have read. This book does an excellent job of derailing the myth of The Lost Cause. Both militarily and economically the South was consistently and methodically crushed, not just in each and every theater of the Civil War, but also in terms of each country's respective resolve. This is an unusually good, original work by a very talented, and very readable author. Very interesting and absorbing on many, many fronts. Some of the very best maps I have seen anywhere.	2002-04-07
US	50826414	R3SJJACME4BBJ7	0670498610	870804687	My Enemy, My Brother	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A MUST READ!	An excellent, blockbuster of a book. There is more history crammed into its 246 pages than I ever imagined could be accomplished in so short a span. Well written, fast moving and riveting, the author examines The Battle of Gettysburg from the participants' view: military and civilian, high and low ranking, male and female, Union and Confederate. Extreamly well done.	2002-02-17
US	50826414	RWPKCYJVGM13O	0471157279	664566972	Grant Wins the War: Decision at Vicksburg	Books	4	16	22	N	N	A very goog Vicksburg compendium.	An excellent analysis covering the entire scope of Grant's tactical operations. However, this book reaches too far. Like the title, the author's military assertions and their subsequent impact on the Union's conduct of the war are a little too grandiose. Grant did not win the war on July 4, 1863. It would drag on for two more years. But just maybe Lincoln did.<br />Grant's amazing victory was as much politically as tactically driven. From the point of view of Grant's career, he had to win, had to take unorthodox chances, because he was as close to being dead meat as any Union general ever came. For months and months he was bogged down before Vicksburg. We know Lincoln was so dissatisfied with Grant that he sent Charles Dana to Vicksburg as the President's special envoy to see what was really going on. <br />General Banks, a Lincoln political appointee and very close friend, was driving north from Baton Rouge toward Port Gibson and Vicksburg. Banks stalled and Grant was ordered by Halleck (via Lincoln??) to assist Banks. Grant disobeyed this command from the then General in Chief of all Federal armies and went his own way. WOW! Big decision. What a way to make friends when you are under the looking glass.<br />Last, placed within Grant's command structure is another Lincoln political appointee and friend, General McClernand, who Grant subsequently relieves prior to Vicksburg's capitulation. Is he thumbing he nose?<br />At Vicksburg we see Grant's first inclination to tactically detach himself from direct supply and communication lines. But what caused it? Was it Pemberton's chauvinistic defense of Vicksburg and Grant's straight forward desire to defeat his foe? Or was it the internal pressure within the Union army and Grant's desire to save his career that forced Grant to do very, very differently from then current military principals, causing him to develop this amazingly different set of operational plans he would resort to again and again during the remainder of the war? <br />Last, from the Confederate side there is Jeff Davis' incredible stupidity. Did Jeff Davis hang Joe Johnston out to dry? And lets not forget Pemberton's direct disobedience to his theater commander's, Joe Johnston's order: Save the army, abandon Vicksburg. Why did Jeff Davis never censure Pemberton not only for the loss of Vicksburg, strategically and psychologically important to the South as it was, but also the loss of an entire army, complete with thousands of men and irreplaceable stores, arms and ammunition? And why does Davis again relieve Johnston from command, not reinstating him until the final hours of the war? <br />Seen simply from the viewpoint of the Union high command, i.e., a traitor in his midst (McClernand), a presidential spy at headquarters (Dana), an unwillingness to unite forces with a fellow field commander (Banks) and the disobedience of his direct superior's orders (Halleck's), Grant should be thankful for Lincoln's reaffirmed evaluation of him: &quot;I cannot spare this man; he fights&quot;. Good for you, Charles Dana.<br />Grant's military victory at Vicksburg IS amazing and this book is as good an account of it as there is. But the author fails to live up to his title's claim. Grant's political coup (Lincoln's willing recognition of his ability despite his incredible disobedience and non cooperation with Lincoln favorites) is even more incredulous than his military one. Had not Meade just beaten Lee at Gettysbury on the very same day that Vicksburg fell? Which would have been of more immediate importance: a captured Confederate army on the Mississippi River or a victorious Confederate army next door to Washington? If Lee had won at Gettysburg, Vicksburg would have been what it will always be, a spectacular feat of arms. But Union army and Northern political concerns aside, maybe, just maybe, Jeff Davis and Robert E. Lee lost the war that fateful day when they made the conscious decision to risk swapping Vicksburg for Washington and lost their gamble on both counts. <br />The most important item to come from the Vicksburg conflict was not Grant's victory as much as it was Lincoln's recognition of Grant as his next General in Chief. And in that vein it was not Grant's victory at Vicksburg but Lincoln's subsequent promotion of Grant over Meade that won the war.	2001-06-05
US	50826414	R2ICCYMJQLH91S	0811701131	500559882	Old Hickory's War	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Awesome!	This easily readable, complete account of the origins of the Southeast United States pulls no punches. It is  fascinating.<br />I am an unabashed Andrew Jackson admirer. But how he ever got away with what he did confuses me. Aaron Burr was charged with treason and tried four times for only thinking about what Jackson executed with impunity. Timing, as they say, is everything.<br />Frontier justice, combined with an officially unsanctioned invasion of undisputably Spainish soverign territory, is accomplished without so much as a truely serious international whimper. Jackson simply ignored and crushed ALL domestic opposition. This event has all the improbable content of the most outrageous novel: land based buccaneering, genocide, invasion, forced removal, betrayal and, most of all, proof that in the early stages of this part of what was going to become a major cornorstone of the future United States, that certain political sections of early America's hierarchy believed that might made right. Absolutly no democratic ideals here.<br />I have never read anywhere what this book made me feel but I truely believe this was Jackson's first formal execution of his and other's concept of Manefest Destiny.<br />The authors are excellent. The subject matter is riviting. The local history is fascinating. Jackson is an American original. With all the good he did for his country he had to know that to execute this plan he needed safe harbor in the highest levels of the US government. Thank God he was on our side.	2001-06-05
US	50826414	R10MPU5MLFX70O	0471157279	664566972	Grant Wins the War: Decision at Vicksburg	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Vicksburg Analysis at its Best	An excellent analysis covering the entire scope of Grant's Vickburg's operations. <br />But like the title, a little too grandoise in its assertions. Grant's amazing victory was as much politically as tactically driven. Here we see Grant's first indclination to detach himself from direct supply and communication lines. But what caused it? Was it Pemberton's chauvenistic defense of Vicksburg (and Grant's straight forward desire to defeat his foe) or was it the internal pressure within the Union army (forcing Grant to do very, very differently from then current military principals)that caused him to develop this amazingly different set of operational plans he would resort to again and again during the remainder of the War? <br />Prior to this victory, Grant, as a general, was probably as much at risk to continuing his command as any time subsequent in his military career. He had horrifically bogged down at Vicksburg. General Banks, Lincoln political appointee and close friend of Lincoln's, is driving North from Baton Rouge. He is stalled outside Port Gibson and Grant is ordered by Hallack (via Lincoln??)to assist him. Grant disobeys this command from the then General in Chief of all Federal armies and goes his own way. WOW! Big decision.<br />Also, within his command structure is another Lincoln political appointee, General McClernand, who Grant relieves prior to Vickburg's capitulation. <br />Last, there is Jeff Davis' incredible stupidity (did he hang Joe Johnston out to dry)and Pemberton's direct disobedience to his theater commander's, Joe Johnston's order; save the army, abandon Vicksburg. Why did Jeff Davis never censure Pemberton not only for the loss of Vicksburg, strategically and psycologically important to the South as it was, but also an entire army, complete with thousands of men, stores, arms and ammunition? And why does Davis again relieve Johnston from command, not reinstating him until the final hours of the war? <br />Seen simply from the viewpoint of the Union high command,i.e., a traitor in his midst, McClernand, an unwillingness to unite forces with a fellow field commander, Banks, and the disobedience of his direct superior's orders, Halleck's,he should be thankful for Linclon's non military, non political eveluation of him: &quot;I cannot spare this man; he fights&quot;.<br />Grant's military victory at Vicksburg is amazing. But his political victory (Lincoln's willing recognition of his ability despite his incredible disobedience)is even more incredulous.	2001-06-04
US	50826414	R2N0IQD51OJIO8	0375406425	123472120	Crucible of War: The Seven Years' War and the Fate of Empire in British North America, 1754-1766	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Outstanding!	By far the finest, most incredibly complete account of the Seven Years War I have read todate, treating England's conflict and awesome achievement as a massive global effort, as opposed to just our North American version, The French and Indian War. I better understand the role of this intense event in the slow formation of colonial American resistance to Britain. Independance took almost 30 years to occur and the subject matter, (the pros and the cons, the rights and the wrongs (pun intended)) is dealt with impecably. <br />As you read this excellent work, you can almost tick off on your fingertips the incredible British blunders which had to eventually result in and force American independance. The American Revolution did not occur because colonial Americans did not support their King, but rather, because their King failed his colonists so very, very miserably.	2001-05-22
US	50826414	R1RGV852N8E461	0553379674	854950352	Thunder Along the Mississippi: The River Battles That Split the Confederacy	Books	1	1	8	N	N	Sentence fragments and silly.	I have read 60-70 books on the Cival War. This one is awful. One wonders how long it was researched(1-2 weeks?)or why the publisher did not have it proof read. It is a simlpe attempt to capitalize on the current, renewed interest in the Cival War. Save your money.	2001-04-30
