US	50824682	R2LIEEQUVT3HSJ	1861631952	995912348	Real Wicca for Teens	Books	5	1	3	N	N	sorry I haven't read the book but I wanted to post...	what I found on a differant site because I was interested and came to amazon to find more but nothing was here, so ignore my rating...<br /><br />.<br /><br />Recent movies and TV programs have portrayed modern witches in an exciting way, which has led to a massive increase in interest in witchcraft among young people. But some of the resulting slew of books have nothing at all to do with real witchcraft, or Wicca. This book by two well-known Wiccans sets out to correct some dangerous misconceptions by giving a true picture of witchcraft, its beliefs, practices, and the principles of real magic.	2005-01-15
US	50824682	R2PW1FBFCODVH9	0806525592	576730703	The Second Circle: Tools for the Advancing Pagan	Books	4	6	13	N	N	How many circles are there?	This book is pretty good. The book is said to be directed to everyone who feels that they need something more then the \\"beginning pagan books\\".  It had a lot of interesting bits here and there but there is a lot of lecturing.  The first few chapters probably annoyed me and ruined some of the amazing content of the rest of the book.  It seemed to suggest that you  need to read harder books, and differant types of books.  This set the tone that if you weren't already constantly reading hard books and only needed to feel validated for the hard work which seemed to equals an advanced pagan according to the book you have a lot to look forward to on your way be advanced.  This book though could have been an extention of a beginning pagan book.	2004-12-18
US	50824682	RJ222SGZB6EI9	034544356X	336353882	Seduced by Moonlight (Meredith Gentry, Book 3)	Books	5	2	6	N	Y	the sex was interesting	the best part of the book was character developement... sure it mostly happened in a bed or turning merry on... there was only one sex scene that I had to flip through to get to the point... but since the sex part was predictable it didn't bother me at all.  I can't wait for the next book that wont be out till late 2005 :(	2004-06-11
US	50824682	RQ68O80JT5AJM	0738701912	538365693	Psychic Vampires: Protection from Energy Predators & Parasites	Books	3	40	50	N	N	Good but hard to get into so only finished two thirds of it	When I picked up this book I was very excited about it because it had some exercises (such as interlocking your fingers to close your aura from others)  that seemed very intrigueing.  With the enthusiasm of the new book I started getting right into but soon found that it fit my rule that if has the author use a title such as doctor on the cover it hard to read because they want to prove there worth of intellect (not all of them... but most of them).  This book seemed to try to to hard to be &quot;medically correct&quot; with discriptions that sounded like they were generalizations from a medical journal it came across as impersonal, intellectual, and sometimes hard to put it in usable information.<br />Now like I said something about it in the title I finished probably two thirds of the book.  For me to get that far it had to have something to keep me interested... and it did.<br />The good aspects about this book is that it does define everything, especailly the types of vampire relationships and symptoms that you can observe in these relationships.  It makes it easier to recognize where vampirism actually occurs in everyday relationships... Making vampirism not something that only occurs in especailly evil or practiced people... but something that occurs in codependant, dependant, and in sometimes otherwise healthy relationships.  It also does an important and excellent job at making the important discription of telling the reader about how to overcome vampiring another person.<br />The exercises to overcome vampirism are good but as all magickal/psychological work it requires the reader to actually become involved in the work emotionally more then just doing the motions.  Though there is little mention of the emotional involvement needed.  While discribing the exercises the author seems to write it as if it would come natural to the reader to do the exercises without discribing to the viewer what to expect fully that is needed of him and what will happen.<br />Overall I would recommend this book to someone in a codependant/dependant relationship, in a counciling position, or anyone that doesn't feel that they &quot;fit in&quot; or can keep a healthy relationship.  Since that includes about everyone... if you look past the books limitations it has a lot of useful information.all I would recommend this book to someone in a codependant/dependant relationship, in a counciling position, or anyone that doesn't feel that they &quot;fit in&quot; or can keep a healthy relationship.  Since that includes about everyone... if you look past the books limitations it has a lot of useful information.	2003-12-22
US	50824682	R2WULHB4EL2PK7	0890813221	423937619	The Beautiful Side of Evil	Books	1	50	127	N	Y	brainwashing people everywhere	I couldn't finish this book, I bought it because my aunt said it changed her life, and because I am pagan and want to see what changed her life so much I decided to read it. In reality when I started reading it I realized that it only Scared her because it was written to scare people rather then give them the truth.  The story is grusome in a negative way, the author if she actually experienced this was truly foolish while writing it but then after... as it is clear that she was into spirituality only for the flash and pomp and still continues on that route.<br />The last 20 or so pages are tips on how to defeat the devil in your life.... interesting stuff.  I actually was so disturbed by the darkness of the book that I had to get rid of it, and usually I like to keep religiously biased stuff just for the sake of objectivity.	2003-12-01
US	50824682	R1CHZGQBUP40I8	156414495X	866367411	Wicca Spellcraft for Men: A Spellbook for Male Pagans	Books	5	15	18	N	N	A down to earth book that focuses more on the masculine side	This book was a huge refresher from the majority of the wiccan books I have picked up.  It seems that the majority of the wiccan specific books are written by females and I have found many slanted to the point of feminism to exclude but the slimmest positive mention of the masculine aspect, if not at times male bashing, talking about how horrible the males made society.<br />This book doesn't go into masculine vs. feminine... or the history of our culture.  What it does though is fill in the areas that are soo often skipped over by the other books.  It has a wonderful chapter on the Gods, a good review/introduction to spellcraft, great recipes for Oils/Incenses... and most importantly a great wealth of knowledge and experience that filled a spot for me that many books seemed to never mention.<br />This book should be in anyones reading list, it definately does not try to engulf all of the masculine aspect of the craft, as it is written less about the strictly masculine side then just about his view that wicca is a religion and not a fad and it is for men just as much as it is for woman, but I would recommend it full heartedly to anyone male/female or other.	2003-04-19
US	50824682	RS9BRPF51TKG6	1578630479	777478044	Your Aura & Your Chakras: The Owner's Manual	Books	5	78	80	N	N	Amazing! Highly Recommended	First I can't say enough good things about this book.  I have to disagree with the poor reviews that it has been given.  First to the rator that said this book was Preachy, I never felt that the author was trying shove her beliefs onto me or that she was \\"lets be light all the time\\".  This book has one defining quality and that is that it gives you definite advise on how to \\"ground\\" yourself and your life so that your living for you and your living in a place that that promotes healthy boundries and then she goes to depth on how people fall into unhealthy practices that are unhealthy ways that people go about their lives.  That to me isn't \\"light all the time\\".  Unless you mean that she actually stresses the importance on creating healthy boundries... then she gives healthy practices from her experience that creates a positive atmosphere and yet defines boundries.<br />That is all only half of the book though... I have have looked through many books on Auras and this book is the only one that I have found that doesn't try to Sell itself and it walks away from the cookie cutter commercailized book!  I found that the Chackras and my Aura become real rather then an uninfluential intellectual exercise of trying to gather a metaphysical power.<br />I was surprised that one rater said this book said that this author does not mention the Goddess and that this is just a continuation of the male society... This book does not focus on God or Goddess (or any diety) and the referances of a \\"God-connection\\" or \\"God\\" refers mostly to the \\"higher self\\" or the seventh chackra which I think the auther did an amazing job... and the rater who was offended by the use of \\"God\\" has mentioned is clearly very sensitive about any mention of the other God based religions as that raters reviews clearly point out.<br />I would give a detailed discription of the insides of this books except amazon has the \\"look inside\\" for this book and the contents are one of the pages.<br />Overall I can't suggest this book enough... I just bought four other books from this author just because I was so impressed with this book.<br />Blessed beuggest this book enough... I just bought four other books from this author just because I was so impressed with this book.  <BR>Blessed be	2003-04-13
US	50824682	R25DVJMSPEWFSJ	0312848811	383094353	Child of the Prophecy (Sevenwaters Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Not as good as the other two, but still an EXCELLENT Series	I have been waiting to get this book at a reasonable price and as soon as the paperback came out I snatched it up.  The first two books in this series were amazing! This book came from a darker point of view.  This book had less romance yet still written from a headstrong teenage girl's point of view, so it echoed a lot of feelings that were in the two other books in this series.  This series seems to be all about Denying love until all hope is lost and the day is saved... then getting the love you always wanted.  So it would have been nice to have a differant main plot, but this book was excellent in tying up the Sevenwaters trilogy.  Overall if you read the other books then I can't imagine why you would even be debating reading this one, but if you are looking at this book for some reason with out reading the other two then I would not read this.  I love this authors work (just from this series so far) and I can't wait to see more of it!	2003-04-10
US	50824682	R1U8YOWYTQDMWM	0765343436	559330677	Daughter of the Forest (The Sevenwaters Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Romantic Fantasy	So far I have read the first and second books of the trilogy, and I haven't been disappointed.  For the plot, the Amazon.com review is the best explanation to work with. The style of writing is not mushy, but it is patient, detailed, and feminine.  I am a believer that a cover of a book does tell you a lot about a book, and the cover of this book is a fair representation.  This book isn't to be read for the action; it has a light touch of Celtic fairy magic and is based on true human qualities and character developments.<br />Excellently written. I would highly recommend.	2003-03-27
US	50824682	R39KF7FPEBOZFG	0854351647	1583958	Testimony of Light	Books	5	24	29	N	Y	Amazing	I skipped the introduction of the book explaining who is who because it was boring.  The book was though was excellent.  It gave the after life from a beautiful and but limited viewpoint that gives you a glimpse of what one spirit experienced and relayed back to earth.  This book truly captured me, not though any great detailed literature but rather its blunt forwardness of experience and humanness.<br />It is written by two retired nuns who were excedingly telepathic in the 60's.  One passed and relayed her experience in the afterlife to the other.<br />It brings up many topics that one would find of the nature of death and life, but beneath it all it reveals what it is that truly makes life worth it all.<br />Definatly recommend, and commend this book	2003-03-26
US	50824682	R1QMJE7Q7GMJMK	0553585509	680501056	Turning the Storm	Books	4	5	7	N	Y	A good read  3 and a half stars	Some of the other reviewers explained how this book differed from the first in the writing style.  Overall the book was good but it seemed rushed and their was a twisted ending that left probably the largest dissapointment.  It put in a protaganist that didn't need to be there to make a simple plot more intriguing.  Instead it rushed over interesting character devolopment, into more of a battlefield who's who.<br />I enjoyed the books, but they overall are less then steller.	2003-03-26
US	50824682	R1NNQN5R2E7YV4	157863119X	236442419	The Initiate's Book of Pathworkings: A Bridge of Dreams	Books	2	12	21	N	Y	Hard to read	I have to admit that I wasn't expecting anything like what the book was, so in a way it isn't that the book is bad, but rather just definately something not for me and I can't imagine suggesting it either.  I have read another book by the auther and was extremely happy with it, but this book is very specificly for a certain purpose.  That purpose is a very particular way to do pathworking.<br />First I have to say that I had an idea of what pathworking was, because I am very familiar with the occult.  That is a guided meditation.<br />This book though reads very much unlike the guided meditations I am used to.  The pathworkings in this book are written like stories except the main character is in first person.  And in every pathworking the main character is doing some sort of ritual that is akin to a particular culture.<br />I do not have the book with me and I am going off memory but for an example, one pathworking would be an Egytian neophyte which you take the role in this first person experience and go through his/her initiation as them step by step.<br />The beginnings of the chapters are wonderfully written to give a short explanation of what type of pathworking the chapter will go into, it was the actual pathworking that I got caught on and couldn't get &quot;into&quot;.  It was the lack of detail, the lack of allowance to experience more then the limited guided meditation offers,  and mostly it was the not so easy role that I had no affinity towards that it thrusts you in with out any emotional appeal.  If you already do pathworkings then this book could be of great interest to you.  If you want an idea towards how you can mentally create a good guided meditation then this might give you some creative idea.  Otherwise I would recommend you purchase this book after you have had the oppertunity to look at it because I can only imagine its appeal to particular readers.  I do like the author, and I do like the basis of the book,  but the actual pathworkings did not fulfill my expectations.<br />There are many books out there with a lot of easier to use pathworkings that I would suggest to the general reader.  Though I don't think there is a general reader for the new age world.not fulfill my expectations.  <BR>There are many books out there with a lot of easier to use pathworkings that I would suggest to the general reader.  Though I don't think there is a general reader for the new age world.	2003-03-26
US	50824682	R28RD1HU93X06P	1567182836	808037524	Beltane: Springtime Rituals, Lore, & Celebration	Books	3	6	12	N	Y	about the same as the rest of this lewellyn series	This series on sabbats are written in a way that seems that a child or a adult can pick it up.  There is little personnal inclusion and overall the whole series makes out to be a sensationalized pagan history with out to much detail except a little background on the things that are commonly associated with the holidays.  Not that I am complaining because the light reading and simple ideas that come with the books are just that and I didn't expect much more.  I stress that these books are often very little expansion to what you can likely find in a book containing all of the sabbats.<br />The reason I gave this book a three is that a third of the book is about fairy lore.  Though Grimassi does a fairly good job giving backgrounds on actual history, and in this book he goes into some quite length on the Maypole and Beltane fires;  But he impresses me very little on discussing catagorical topics (such as fairy lore) as he only skims through the topic without laying much foundation and including little other then a few sensational details are often very common or worthless.<br />This book fits nicely among all the other childishly large books by lewellyn... I suppose it makes it easier to do the crafts... which in this book doesn't include much... Because I can't imagine someone needing help making a cone with taped on handles with a two page example to make a beltane basket.<br />The pictures in the whole series are black and white with out with very little detail.  Remniscent of a childs coloring book, except in such a way that it would be difficult to use as a coloring book.<br />Since I do not have the book in front of me I wish I could give you more detail.<br />Overall, this book works well for its intent.  As it offers a good place to start with the Wiccan/Pagan slant on the holidays. The bad thing is that the suggested crafts and practices and information are often overly simple, and there is much wasted space (as in this book with the section on fairy lore that doesn't really fit well with the book), and often the reading seems to be as if the auther cut and pasted details as he (in this case) found them rather then being an expert on the subject.<br />ANOTHER good thing is that the books in this series always seems to be available used... so for half of the retail price plus shipping... well it isn't 'that bad'<br />There is another series by a differant publisher that seems to be of the same nature that might worth comparing, so far I am only own this books from this series.oesn't really fit well with the book), and often the reading seems to be as if the auther cut and pasted details as he (in this case) found them rather then being an expert on the subject.<BR>ANOTHER good thing is that the books in this series always seems to be available used... so for half of the retail price plus shipping... well it isn't 'that bad'<BR>There is another series by a differant publisher that seems to be of the same nature that might worth comparing, so far I am only own this books from this series.	2003-03-20
US	50824682	R2H1PQYQ0MGF52	0312862180	302404025	Ghostlight	Books	2	1	4	N	N	disappointing	...  I rate this book such because the book lacked humor or appeal.  The main character was so prudish and emotionally closed that it was a bore reading three hundred pages of her \\"rationalizing\\" and closed off views that became soooo predicatible.  Speaking of predicatable the ending was about as predicatible as could get.  Don't get me wrong... I love a good predicatible everything turns out the way you thought it would including a little side love-storybut NONE of the characters were developed to get attatched to... so it was an empty ending yet exciting ending (especially compared to the \\"haunted house\\" story angle it came from).<br />If you think you want to buy this for any occult content then I would recommend you look elsewhere as there is little to relish upon.<br />On the possitive side... I enjoyed the mystery, most of the side characters, and the background story.<br />The book would have been a 4 or 5 stars if it was edited out 100 pgs and if the main character wasn't so prudish.  It would have been an exceptional book in my opinion if then had 100 pgs more details and REAL character developement.	2003-03-17
US	50824682	R2JALB60DJOOB1	0253338042	923309562	Holy Personal: Looking for Small Private Places of Worship	Books	4	3	5	N	Y	Good but not what I was expecting	I bought this book because I thought that this book would surprize me with pictures that facinate me and filled with eye candy and interesting ideas or people.  What I found was something less &quot;fantastic&quot; but more personal.  The book is written from an aspect from a personal perspective of the authors travels.  Written from the authors first person impressions and interviews.  When I first got the book I flipped through it and didn't find it exciting, I might have forgotten about the book because of the less then fancy impression but I started reading a few chapters here and there and the Author writes about each picture... what was happening when she took the picture, and what it means to the person who created the place of worship.  The book turns out to be very well written, amazing &quot;feel good&quot; impression of looking into a personal view of peoples spirituality.	2003-03-14
US	50824682	R1ASA1ZLNIP8CV	0505522209	437650153	Trick or Treat	Books	3	2	3	N	Y	Easy Quick Cheesy Witchy romance	I read two of the four short stories that compile this book.  The other two didn't didn't sound to extremely interest me.  The two stories that I did read were written from the perspective of the female and it was the traditional pretty witch defending her position of her spirituality from the stunningly handsome non-witch man that completely fell for her.  One of the main female characters was of a witch that was the classic I didn't believe I was a witch but now I am coming to turns with if after I put up a fight, and I was getting sick of hearing the whiny point of view that a lot of pagan fiction takes.<br />If you just love quick reading pagan fiction that is filled with LOVE AT FIRST SIGHT  then you might love this book.  I thought it was OK.  I enjoyed one of stories a lot, the other I thought was annoying but entertaining, and the two that I didn't read I thought were based somewhere in the left feild but could have been interesting.<br />Good luck.	2003-03-14
US	50824682	R1JXRH8LVZBU5C	0806970723	689947145	The Healing Spirit of Plants: An Illustrated Guide to Plant Spirit Medicine	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	INCOMPLETE and overly trendy but a fun book w/ pics	This book has a lot of subjects with good pictures in it except does not complete any of the subjects that it covers.  I love books with pictures, things to see and imagine easily.  This book does an OK job presenting its pictures... I found a lot of the pictures seemed to just take up space then add anything constructive though, and there was quite a few of the pictures that are the same pictures used over.  I gave it four books because this book is VERY ENJOYABLE.  If you are only a dabbler in the subject of working with healing plants, or you just like to have a book with a lot of easy reading and some good pictures to add to an already good start of a collection then this book will work for you.  The limitations of this book would make it horrible for the casual reader looking for information on purchasing a book on plants and thier healing value. The book is divided, half of it talks about just a little (very little on each of the following subjects) about history, healing topics to include chackras-auras, General plant knowledge, a few ways to prepare plants, ect.  The other half of the book is the 'encyclopedia' of plants that has about a page for each plant.<br />Limitations: -The book covers about only 45 plants that commonly are known for their healing properties, some common and some less common.  -it covers very LITTLE practical ways to use healing plants  -it covers many topics a little with out any depth and with little practical use or ways to fit it in the big picture.<br />Benifits:  -it includes regions and short histories of plants  -it has many wonderful and very accurate and useful color pictures on subjects that I never thought would be in this book  -the book is not overwhelming with writing... a lot of illistration and nothing written without illistration.<br />I personally wouldn't buy this book at full price, but you should be able to get a good price for it used.<br />Again I have to say that this book isn't for someone who is looking for a serious book to start from, because there are much better books for that, but If you still think this book is for you and you understand its limitations then you won't be disappointed.rious book to start from, because there are much better books for that, but If you still think this book is for you and you understand its limitations then you won't be disappointed.	2003-03-14
US	50824682	RQD1BFAI80TOR	087728489X	946366812	The One Year Manual: Twelve Steps to Spiritual Enlightenment	Books	5	63	69	N	Y	Great Start	I have only read the first two chapters of this book, but I wanted to put some feedback where there is none.  The book is written for you to read one chapter with its specific exercize per month.  Isreal Regardie is usually very WORDY as was typical for the time period and being a serious occult writer, BUT this book is not wordy at all.  This book is a small quick and from what I can tell excellent place to start actually practicing the occult.  For instance the first chapter and exercise is to just sit/lay and work on being sensitive with what your feeling.  The second exercize is on breathing.  The rest of the book seems to be very practical and from what I can tell I would recommend to any student on spiritual practices.  This book is written not to exclude anyone with any particular religious belief but only to start a practical approach to spiritual practice.	2003-03-14
US	50824682	R3BNVVERFOLSKU	157863153X	494659658	Through the Gates of Death	Books	3	4	5	N	Y	Mostly enjoyable- 3 and a half stars	The book is written in a mix of preachy advice that I am beginning to know Dion Fortune by and her very psychic and well knowledge Occult impressions on people going through death of a loved one or of just knowledge on death.  The problem with the book is that it is written in an attempt to advise someone who is grieving... yet It is written from a COLD intellectual occultist supremist way.  This book added a bit to my knowledge of death but I wouldn't recommended starting with this book, rather I would use this book only if you are already familiar with the occult view on death and to add to your knowledge.  Also I wouldn't recommend this book to someone who is strongly grieving from a recent death.  I would recommend this to someone who is looking for a occult view on death, who already has some knowledge on this occult view, and someone who wants to know how to handle death in the best way from an occult view.  I would recommend The Astral World: Its Scenes, Dwellers, and Phenomena<br />by Swami Panchadasi as a very quick read to familiarize yourself with related occult subjects before you read this book or instead of this book if you are looking for just one book to read.	2003-03-14
US	50824682	RV68QM57TQUNM	0312278586	244886090	The Nanny Diaries: A Novel	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Good book but after a while I wanted to skip to the end	Sure this book is cute, a first person novel all the way from a smart well grounded young woman who seems to have come from a rich very wonderful family that is still in her life, as she finishes her senior year at NYU. That is the problem, we have this girl bend over backward for the love of this little boy and her job that seems like she has just to prove her independance.  It starts out that Nanny just wants to work \\"part time\\" and then quickly moves to a full time 45 hours doing crazy bending over backwards and being treated like dirt because of her supposed bond for a four year old.<br />Ummm... I was sick of Nanny by the time I got half way through the book.  You never see her do any reflecting on WHY she lets her self be a footstool to her employers other then her connection with thier child.  The book is a contradiction between Nanny being completely NIEVE and being completely grounded, and it ends up not making a lot of sense.  As wonderful as Nannies family seems and WHY nanny insists on living in New York if the whole book is about how expensive it is, and Why she doesn't just get a student loan if she is taking a full classload... it perplexes me.  Instead the book leaves a lot of little questions unanswered and you see this strong woman breakdown little by little even though she does an amazing job being human.  At the same time the story starts a romance with a boy that you know by H.H. (Harvard Hottie) but it leaves this side story extremely under developed.<br />I gave this book a three because even though the book was written well, it only gives you a fisheyed perspective of one character with only the SMALLEST socail developement leaving out major life details so you you purposely can not get attatched to any character.  You never get to know what any character is thinking or grow much sympathy other then to keep on saying to yourself... Oh my that family/woman/x is crazy, or oh how wonderful.  Lastly the ending was trite... expected but not fulfilling, and with many loose ends which are not important to the story but in general leave you just the more disconnected from Nanny's life other then her limited jaundiced Job that the story is about.  This book ends up being only about all the little stories that the authors collected in their jobs that made up what they conglamerated into the X family. Which ended up leaving me VERY empty. I can't imagine recommending it to anyone even though it was mildly in a dark sense enjoyable.ling, and with many loose ends which are not important to the story but in general leave you just the more disconnected from Nanny's life other then her limited jaundiced Job that the story is about.  This book ends up being only about all the little stories that the authors collected in their jobs that made up what they conglamerated into the X family. Which ended up leaving me VERY empty. I can't imagine recommending it to anyone even though it was mildly in a dark sense enjoyable.	2003-01-28
US	50824682	R2GT7BKG4QEQYY	0835605027	247153020	The Inner Life (Quest Book)	Books	2	13	22	N	Y	Couldn't finish it	I bought this book because of the praise in the other review, and because I bought Leadbeaters book on the astral realm which I whole hearted recommend, BUT I want to make sure the reader has larger opinion of this book.  I do like a lot of works by the Theosopists and the large amount work that they added to the occult, this book though rummages through the introduction and first chapter of OUTDATED ... about the society of the time (the school that the author took the subjects that you see in this book, and people.)  The problem is that the subjects that make up the book are not of any value unless you already have much Theosophical work under your belt and take it into context of the school that he was teaching from.  I am sure you could meditate on Dr Suesse and come away with just of a deep experience as this book.  The reason I am so hard on the book was because after I felt like I wasted a few hours of my time trying to read it front to back then I started going to differant chapters.  The chapters  are completely differant \\"dissertations\\" which seemed like babbling on subjects that do not have any seeming strong connection or flow with each other.  Of which none of them were of any major thought/subject such as the kabala or astral or of major modern occult value that I saw.  I would include some of the topics in this review except I do not have the book with me at the moment.	2003-01-27
US	50824682	R1JGQR9V0IGUIB	0875420036	332253600	True Magick: A Beginner's Guide (Llewellyn's Practical Magick Series)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	a good place to start	This book is a good book to start a study of magick. It is not for someone looking for flashy, expensive, trendy. There is no easy way to get a full bodied experience of working with magick and to understand all factions of magick, this book covers where to start a Spiritual bases of magick.  It is slanted towards wiccan views, much of its practical bases is generating a positive lifestyle for the reader while discussing how we effect magick and what magick is.  When I first was interested in magick I read this book and it was PERFECT reading and I suggested it to everyone... now I still agree that it is a great book to start from, I would only suggest it to someone that would benifit the wiccan slant.  If I was to create a reading list for the beginning witch this would be one of the very firsts that I would select<br />Blessed be	2003-01-16
US	50824682	RZRPB7GW4HBK7	0061031844	409576673	The Book of Shadows	Books	4	1	1	N	N	dark, sexual, gruelsome  a little fantacy and a little fact	The book has 619 (amazon says 640) pages... I am on pg 576, so I can't tell you how it ends, but I have a pretty good idea of the book.  Starting in the year 1812, The first 125 pgs are about Herculines mother passing and her long and outcasted stay at a school ran by nuns until her late teens when everything changes. For the next 75 or so pages it is very discriptive of her downfall and her quick discovery to being a witch overnight among other things sexual.  Then over a 100 pages to overly detail her being saved which in a night that doesn't seem to end, but is very detailed with sex and the introduction to the demon, witch and two of the undead (two \\"elementals\\" a succubus and a incubus, that have been living for 200 years since their souls have been trapped on earth so they spend a lot of time looking to find a way to die while being very sexual) that save her.  The rest is then a back and forth between the stories of the other four characters which except for small bits revolve a great deal with gore and death and seem more like completely seperate stories from the book... or I supose if you want to call it \\"gothic\\".  A great deal of the story and history of France around and through the Horrific revolution.  The actual time frame for hurculine in the last 400 pages takes place over two weeks, so most all of the detail is like I said of the other charactors and mostly taking place over 30 years before the book is to take place.<br />I bought the book because of its assotiation with witchcraft... Which unless you like dark and gruesome things is not the reason to buy this book.  The witches are \\"blood witches\\" only female or I suppose hermaphordite, because it seemed to exclude any mention of any male witches... there is very little mention of real witchcraft as these blood witches of the book seem to be \\"supernatural\\" to a degree by birth... for instance there is a part where actual snakes are created out of hair.  And then the other parts of the magic that is mentioned has some degree of belief as far has historic context, as it has a long discription of making a dead mans candle from a dead killer or thiefs fat and a hand to access a house unnoticed.  I am just saying that I wouldn't buy this book if you just want a literary romance with magick.<br />I am not really a fan of books that are long and drawn out so this book was very well written but it dragged for me at parts, because even though it was very graphic and wonderfully sensual, it spent a large time on character devolopement except it did so in a way that didn't give you much to connect with to the characters.  So no matter what happens in the next forty pages I am not going to feel bad if every single person in france (where it takes place) ,including all of the main characters, where visited buy angels of death and just went to hell.  Obviously that was an absurdity but it was just how I would describe my feelings.  Why do you ask that I give it a four stars if I write about it in such a way?  Well I have read it in an exceptional fast pace because it was written very well.  Sure I think the book is dark and therefor unpleasant but I know people who like such dark things... and finally I thought the author wrote the history of france amazingly... as it seems filled with a great deal of horrific and actual history that dragged me if not into the characters it dragged me into france during one of its most interesting times.mentioned has some degree of belief as far has historic context, as it has a long discription of making a dead mans candle from a dead killer or thiefs fat and a hand to access a house unnoticed.  I am just saying that I wouldn't buy this book if you just want a literary romance with magick.  <BR>I am not really a fan of books that are long and drawn out so this book was very well written but it dragged for me at parts, because even though it was very graphic and wonderfully sensual, it spent a large time on character devolopement except it did so in a way that didn't give you much to connect with to the characters.  So no matter what happens in the next forty pages I am not going to feel bad if every single person in france (where it takes place) ,including all of the main characters, where visited buy angels of death and just went to hell.  Obviously that was an absurdity but it was just how I would describe my feelings.  Why do you ask that I give it a four stars if I write about it in such a way?  Well I have read it in an exceptional fast pace because it was written very well.  Sure I think the book is dark and therefor unpleasant but I know people who like such dark things... and finally I thought the author wrote the history of france amazingly... as it seems filled with a great deal of horrific and actual history that dragged me if not into the characters it dragged me into france during one of its most interesting times.	2003-01-12
US	50824682	RC99W3AUXO6TH	0141310464	283503882	Book of Shadows (Sweep, No. 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	an excellent witch FANTACY and romance	The other reviews especially the editorial review... have said much to point out what the books about, and I am not going to rehash it.  Overall I enjoyed and even Treasured most of the books in this series very much, it is true that this book is blended with as much fantasy as reality but it does so in a way that only adds to the book rather then shames the reality, (approximately I would relate it closely to the movie \\"the craft\\" except in book form) and this book has character developement without bore, and good personalities... and I enjoyed how it pays attention to the \\"cute boy/girl\\" or to the outfit they wear for the day at school.  The book is very modern with a good amount of detail, without seeming to throw in names of fasions or designers just to seems so.  I would recommend it to anyone (mostly to the young female) that wants to escape reality and do so magickally, there is some (mixed in with the fantasy of course) valid referance to witchcraft.  ... most likely you will find, as me and my friend did, that one or two of the fourteen books are harder to enjoy then the others; overall it is one of two of my favorite series of this type... the other which is a bit more realistic is the \\"Circle of Three\\" series which I would also recommend greatly.	2003-01-11
US	50824682	R3P216S5NJ64S8	0965155420	930722555	The Book of Stones and Metals	Books	5	13	13	N	N	My favorite Stone Energy book	This is a black and white book with exciting drawings, but with out pictures of actual stones...so if you must have pictures then a good simple good book that I would suggest would be the Illistrated Guide to Crystals &lt;0806936274&gt;, but absolutely no other book that I have come across compares to this book on working with understanding not only the energies of the crystals but of the major paths of &quot;occupations&quot; that crystals work best with.  The simplist way I can explain it is that she breaks up the Chackra/colors centers and explains them in a Down to earth way of how we work with them and use certain energies.  She explains where you could wear the metal and stone for the best effects, and talks about what stones/metals negate each other, and overall goes in depth on how Crystal/stone/energy effects our subtle energy systems.  The thankful thing is that when she  includes the healing properties it is very down to earth, where I have seen many metaphysical books (especailly the ever popular Love is the Earth) that are usually very &quot;watery&quot; about any properties going at length about a crystal but not actually giving you a firm idea of what type of energy it actually has while making many claims that seem outlandish or vague.  Maya Heath writes it like it is, and after you read a crystals properity you get a general feeling of how you would actually work with a crystal.  Also this is the first book that I have ever come across that really mentions some of the negative effects you can have through to much contact with a crystal.  The book has much more references that I cannot remember at this time.  I  recommend this book whole heartedly to anyone interested or working energetically in crystals, stones or metals.	2003-01-10
US	50824682	R2WGKPQFMM156A	0965568709	487277864	Painless Astrology: A simple and fun guide to natal chart interpretation	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The best introduction to understanding Astrology EVER	I bought this book at my local witch store with a differant binding and I paid 25 dollars for it, and I think knowing how much it helped me understand astrology I would have paid twice or more then then that.  This book keeps everything in Simple easy to digest bits.  The book breaks up all the areas that bring Astrology together and writes them in a user friendly manner.  Such as comparing the houses to a companies board of directors, the signs to the general personalities of the attendies of the board as it changes, the planets on being the power speakers, and then the aspects to how they work together.  As the author explains that he wrote this book so people that came to him to get thier charts made and read would understand what energies are at work, and so they could understand thier own charts.  He does a fantastic job that in its simplisity reveals so much that would have been very forgetable facts because he makes it Usable.  God knows how old this book is, but it looks to be first published maybe in the 40's-80's, the writing style is amazing and is easy to ready and never preachy as some of the people that seem to claim to have experience seem to exude.  This book is perfect for the beginner or intermediate, and I with its style I would even suggest it to the advanced astrologer student if nothing else then to read its wonderful teaching style.  One of the AMAZING ways he relates you to the energies of the signs themselves is by breaking down the symbology.<br />I Recommend this book completely!  It should be required reading to any group that works with subtle energies.	2003-01-10
US	50824682	R23MA4U8XHAKSC	0451154916	101952949	The Crystal Handbook (Signet)	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Cheap and Nifty referance or a skim of an introduction	I wouldn't use this book as my only book if I was going to study Crystals and earth consiousness, but this book from my quick read look to be a inexpensive and good small referance to use on most any common crystal.  I am very very skeptical on a lot of the information because the author does not give any referances and makes claims that are \\"watery\\" with out much definition, and I do not have the resources at the present time to verify its information.  This book has a decent blurb on for instance Amythist... it would talk about its use in history and folklore, and also a good deal of its metaphysical properties.  It is alphabetical by name, but not all of the crystals are not the best organised because you have to go to Quartz to get to Amythyst, or Tigerseye because these are Quartz crystals... but at the same time he has numerous other crystals that he says is in the \\"quartz family\\" for whatever that means.  It is limited on how many crystals it covers, and it has very limited amount of information on what exactly you do with the crystal to actually \\"use\\" or work with them.<br />But I give this four stars because in general it is a good little book and I do not regret buying it one bit.<br />If you are looking for a really good book on the subject I would HIGHLY sugest a book on crystals by Maya Heath though her books can be hard to find.<br />Blessed be.	2003-01-09
US	50824682	R1GAWAM340FAGU	0380789906	995380923	Spellbound (Enchanted Hearts)	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	Cute, Trite, quick read	The best part of the book was that it was a fast read.  Overall the main character was likeable, and that is the only character that you get to know to any depth.  The story is coming from a chubby girl who is sister to a \\"real warlock\\" (as the book puts it) who was adopted.  The chubby little girl gets introduced to a witch with her mom and becomes skinny and beautiful and is able to do magick because this witch gives her power.  Then she saves the day and falls in love and then the witch takes her power away but she still has her man and her beauty.<br />This is just a romance, if you like to lose yourself without having to worry about reality... take the plunge in this young adult book.  If you want something that will actually have some depth and magick and romance then I would suggest many other books... for young adult I would suggest the SWEEP series, or the Circle of Three series.	2003-01-09
US	50824682	R357IAL5AD6A82	0943233135	789644042	True Love: How to Make Your Relationship Sweeter, Deeper and More Passionate	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	fast book  to look at your relationship more closely	I bought this book at the end of my last relationship (a little too late) and realised that barring any major problems in the relationship this little book actually emphasizes all the essential things that a person needs to look at concerning relationships.  She writes in very small workable sections that get your mind going.  For instance she might use two pages for an introduction then 2 for a forward then the four chapters are made up of 2-3 page topics.  Every topic for instance one might be on &quot;small ways to show appreciation&quot; &lt;for example but I don't have the book in front of me&gt; These little topics contain in a very simple forward way how to get back the trust and love in a relationship or how to get the blood flowing in it.  I suppose if you are already in a healthy relationship or think about being in a healthy relationship I would suggest the book just as much because it gives you the insight to recognise all the healthy ways to look at a relationship... This book isn't preachy or flat intellectualism, it is a good read.  If you need help in a relationship this book makes the idea of bring back life in it very barable.  Blessed Be	2003-01-09
US	50824682	R3LOI22M7WX9I8	0877286833	636958610	Tarot: Mirror of the Soul: Handbook for the Aleister Crowley Tarot	Books	5	39	40	N	Y	Cant imagine not having it for my Crowely deck	I have to admit that I have not read the book of thoth, and I have not read any other book on the crowly deck, though I would have to say that after I read this book that my Crowley deck seemed to increase in value to me tenfold and it also changed and increased much of my view through the Tarot in General.  I have been a small collecter and learned to some degree of the Tarot and this book was definately worth its price.  This book is written quite plainly to include a few pages of COMPLETE detail on every card and several chapters on the ways intended or recommended for crowley tarot readings.  The discription of the card does not just leave you feeling that you know that such and such means trouble is coming and you should exercise caution, (I would hope anyone looking into the crowley tarot understands the nature of crowley) rather this is a book to follow the path of the tarot as mans growth.  Reading this book it completely took the harsh pictures that make the deck sometimes disturbing into a very calculated and helpful tool with very earth shattering sound advise for those that want to have control of there life (just as it seemed Crowley was truely teaching us in his sometimes harsh way)<br />I recommend it without reservation if you are attracted in anyway to the Crowley deck.  Now if you are just getting interested in tarot cards and do not know the back end of a tarot card from adam and don't even know what the Crowley cards look like or that there is a significant differance between decks then I would stop and start doing a lot more suching first before buying this... but definitely come back to buying this.	2003-01-08
US	50824682	R2Z74A0XXTNPJ2	0877283613	736310538	The Initiate	Books	5	22	23	N	Y	A spiritual walk down memory lane with a fairy tale	This book is for the spiritual seeker.  Sure you can say it is geared to one with occult/mystism background... one of those direct routes to the subject.  The book starts where Mr Scott goes into detail talking of an aquantance who is an adapt.  This is written very cryptically so that you are to know that the people of the story doesn't matter (and he does not tell you his name or any of the other's name but assures you that it is completely his history) the book is written in the early twenty-th century and styled very much in the english manner of writting at the time.  Getting to know the adapt and the author filled with me with energy as I read it.  It was as intended deeply spiritual for me.<br />The second half of the book is written as the ACTUAL story though not exactly of the same magnitude as the first half in spiritual revelation.  This is where you start following the path of an initiate which is clearly a story of illistration.  The story is of a man who had spent very much time imbibing in the physical and is now on a spiritual quest.  The charactors are written in a manner to remind me of a very structured disney adventure that is of the enlightening nature.  I am now waiting for the second and third book. Highly recommended!  Blessed Be	2003-01-08
US	50824682	R2MSSS3P3W0UZ	0312872542	163883772	Dark Sister	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	a good but dark read	I am a reader of fictional books on magick.  That is the obvious reason I went right into this one.  The charactors were easy to love and hate as the book was written quite vividly.  Sometimes it was very hard to tell what to think of a charactor though as the twists in the story lead you deaper into the mystery of who  the &quot;dark sister&quot; really is.  I suppose what was least enjoyable about the book was that with all the characters so real that every twenty pages you would get almost a glimps of Wonderland... these quite disturbing happenings that are occuring don't quite fit in the novel.  It reminds me to some degree of &quot;Practical Magic&quot; the novel in its dark randerings... except Joyce's style of writing is very fast paced.  The witchcraft in this book does not enter at all into the spiritual aspect and I can not say how well of a basis that the Herbal lore/magick has, though it is written in such a way that it is inrapturing.  Overall it is not a book to read to brighten the mood, or to read unless you want to feel a little thrill and douse yourself in someone elses problems for a while.	2003-01-08
US	50824682	R3TQIOORUGI1BN	0877288747	838022534	Practical Solitary Magic	Books	5	19	20	N	Y	recommend it full heartedly	I think that I can add to those that had reviewed this book, one person said that it wasn't for beginners or someone of youth because it was an advanced book, while two others blatently said it was a great place to begin.  I think the first review that I mentioned said that it was not a book to begin with because this book is not strictly wiccan, and does not go into any religious background.  Thus said this book is as advertised a beginning to magick using mostly the four realm division of Fire/Spirit/Salamander, Air/Mental/slyphs, Water/emotion/undines, Earth/physical/gnomes... in this sense she simplifies activating (I am using a simplistic aproach) the inner child/unconsiousness through exercises and use of elementals.  This book is written excellently because it gives not only a simple and uncomplicated and throughly understandable place to begin with out pressure, she also writes it in a way for only spiritual growth of the reader and also writes this with deep moral considerations without beating you over the head constantly of dogma.  If you are looking at understanding yourself better while becoming aquanted with elementals this would this book is a great place to begin, but it is somewhat limited in scope.  This book is written so it does not rehash or go into any religion so it would be a perfect book for the dedicated of a earth religion as an \\"intermediate book\\" if you don't already understand the elemental realm then it would still be perfect since I have not found any other book to relate the elements so wonderfully close to a personal level.  I could rant on and on... so I will leave off to also say that this book has a \\"quiz\\" or \\"questionaire\\" so that you can find the element you are most affinitied to.  This to me was more fun then a deep personal exersize and I think should be taken as much..  but if it helps just the better.  Blessed be.  Now buy this book, since I have bought three over the last three years	2003-01-08
US	50824682	RS8UXPBEN40IL	0380800837	335593007	Lost and Found (Enchanted Hearts)	Books	3	0	0	N	Y	For the  thrill with out to much thought	I have read two books from this series and neither were to impressive. This books main charactor was charming and interesting and getting introduced to her psychic ability of touching an object of a missing person/child and then entering into the thoughts of that person is quite a well read UNTIL about half way through when that darn plot gets in the way.  This book is rightfully written for the young adult.  I like reading young adult for easy reading which this book provided but the problem was that the plot had a twist (farely obvious one) that made a decent but very obvious story into a bareable one.  The cuteness factor is pretty high, but at the same time it doesn't even go to far indepth in any detail that really gives a book some weight.	2003-01-08
US	50824682	R1XMFF0TKS4M81	1585090719	561405047	The Astral World: Its Scenes, Dwellers, and Phenomena (Occult Manuals)	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	SMALL and captivating	I want to say it again, this book is tiny (just incase you haven't read the dimensions yet), but a fascinating read.  This book is written a little cryptically as it seems was the fasion back in the twentys, and for the obvious time differance it is also written the formal english of the time.  So because of my other research on the subject some of the first few chapters seemed to be miss leading to some degree on how it talks in definites, though if you read this small book in its entirety (which is quite easy to do, and to enjoy it while you do so) you will walk away understanding the Astral with a good amount of detail.  There is hordes and hordes of information that this book doesn't cover... this book covers very well just what actually makes up the &quot;dimensions&quot; of the Astral that is a small overview of only the astral realm (first realm is &quot;physical&quot;, second the realm of force, the third realm is astral, forth mental... and it doesn't really even talk much of the other three realms of light or higher realms, except that it covers the fact they they exist) This book doesn't go into detail of what type of beings are on the differant realms except in so much as what stage of being that a human would be at and what the human would likely experience to some degree when his nature time comes to experience a certain area of the Astral.<br />The book was excellent for what it was and I bought it used, I would recommend it for those who are serious in study and want another way to look at the universe, I wouldn't buy it if you are just looking to astral travel and want a road map and instructions.	2003-01-08
US	50824682	RX0941WZTFRBK	073870119X	735513938	Daily Planetary Guide: Llewellyn's Astrological Datebook (Llewellyn's Daily Planetary Guide)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Excellent for the Astrologer, beginner or advanced	Now I haven't actually recieved my 2003 calander yet, except I used this book last year quite a lot and I can't imagine it changing since it was so well put together.  There was first a simple and short (but excellent) discriptions to know for the everday astrologer in the first 15-20 pages.  A nice guide to know what type of energies are related to all the planets and aspects that could be used for a beginner or just to look up referance for the intermediate needing a quick refresher.<br />Then the book has a weekly general astrological overview that takes up 30 more pages with over a half of page of discription for each week, touching mostly on the big aspects that should be effecting us and what to look for in the sky, and it follows the moon and what type of mood (sign she is in) she is wearing.  Then the bulk of the book is the week divided in two pages and under each day it has every main/secondary aspect that a planet could be in, along with any changes in astrological sign. The moon has its on section in under each day with a discription of what day it is in its sign and its lunar phase.  The last part of the book is a full of a whole list of the degrees a planet is in each sign and when it is retrograde.<br />There are other calanders that have other strong points as far as even having a weekly astrological chart on the page, but the last time I seriously checked I didn't find anything comparable to this calender on Amazon.com.	2003-01-05
US	50824682	RGX9N0YH67F9F	0767900553	962006070	Book of Shadows	Books	4	3	8	N	N	GREAT except it is heavy on the feminism	The book overall has amazing charactors, a good plot, and it is one of the books that I compare all other magick books to.  In most simplistic terms it is about a woman who finds empowerment with Wicca through details of her life from the begining of getting a job shes worked so hard for, to being introduced to wicca, and then through to her initiation where she fully faces her stresses of her Job and living in a sexist and highly demanding occupation in a big city in a man-eat-man world.  The was only one problem with the book, and that is that it takes an extreme anti-man view then was was easily enjoyable, especailly since I am a guy.  So the first 1/3 of the book I couldn't put it down, but after it began to talk about the EVIL man ruled society I started resenting the book a little. In the end it was very much worth the read, it is one of the better books that is written as a story about spirituality and witchcraft, and I love books on the subject.  The best quality of the book was that it was a beautiful description of finding spiritual practice in a city, or in modern times.	2003-01-05
US	50824682	RJVAJJS5V079D	1567182550	446443446	Wiccan Magick: Inner Teachings of the Craft	Books	2	11	16	N	Y	I couldn't finish it	I was impressed and enjoyed Wiccan Mysteries (would give it a 5 out of 5 for what it is worth) by this very author and so I purchased this book and I thought it would be as well thought out.  Instead as I read it I found most of it was watered down basics of the foundation of &quot;wiccan magick&quot; and I would suggest many other books for a beginner before this one; which was written with out the background information. Overall I found that it didn't say anything particularly refreshing, ingenuitive or really thought provoking to keep me interested.  One of my disagreements with this book was a chapter on stones/crystals that was very inadequate.  If you like to read books that sound more like folklore then magick or a path to spirituality rather then a little stroll in the lifeless park of religion then you might just Like this book a great deal.	2003-01-01
US	50824682	R3NHLCUHX4AE0A	B000078UH7	118915711	The Dance: Moving To the Rhythms of Your True Self	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Moving	I read the invitation over and over.  At first I was not ready for this book.  It wasn't untill I read a half of it that I fell deeply into seeing Oriah's perspective and it healed me.<br />Now I have read it twice, and it still is moving, and highly recommended from my point of view.	2003-01-01
US	50824682	R2CGA0ZRHBVI5V	1561840181	729462347	Magick Without Tears	Books	2	4	16	N	N	A tough read	I love the work of Aleister Crowley and his followers. I am deeply interested in this man that was so influential, but it didn't make the book any easier to read, and so for me it was an unrewarding chore to find the smallest tidbits of useful expantion of consiousness.  If you are new to Crowleys views or Magick then I wouldn't start here for then you would probably get the least amount of assistance to start on your path.  This book seemed to be made in a way that it could have been condensed to about a 50 pages mostly being made of suggestions to read other books and there importance that Crowley has written then actually reading this one.  Reading the third of this book that I pushed my way through.<br />First it had over 20 pages of Isreal Regardies forward that was interesting but didn't really say anything other then commend Crowley for his work.<br />Then this book is written of letters to a woman who is interested in joining the A'A' a magickal assiociation of crowleys.<br />I did enjoy Crowley's views, I am not a prior reader of crowley, so I found this book to exciting and moving.  The problem was that no matter how much genious Crowley was, he did not seem to write this book for the readers benifit rather it seemed a to be a rant, or to long of an explanation on subjects that are only discussed in a very very small manor, before another incomplete discussion is brought in.<br />As many magick books this book might be best read a chapter and serious study at a time... but realistically that isn't going to happen... and realistically this book isn't a good book to get your feet on the ground to study Magick without tears as it claims.  Unless you are looking for Magick with headaches and a lot of other Crowley books to referance.<br />Overall if you have the opertunity to look at this book then open it up to any chapter and see if you can follow it. Trust me there isn't that much continutity between chapters so you wouldn't be missing much.  Then if you like it then go ahead and spend the 20 dollars it will cost you to buy it.it then go ahead and spend the 20 dollars it will cost you to buy it.	2003-01-01
US	50824682	R2K6U57FDS2PLZ	1888767340	544478745	Animal-Wise: The Spirit Language and Signs of Nature	Books	5	18	21	N	N	continued	I have not fully read this book but the last review written needed to be added to.  This book is an extention of Animal Speak, so as author writes further into the shaministic world of animals he writes further on less common animals.  So if you know of particular animals that you would like to work with or learn Mr Andrews views on it might behoove you to compare both of the books physically before you commit to purchasing them.  I personally find Andrews writting style to be easily read and most often agreeable if not sometimes a little watered down as spiritual books need to be due to the nature that is dependant on the individual.<br />-j	2002-04-22
US	50824682	R15AZ80VFWE1V5	0062515845	874900808	The Invitation	Books	5	12	14	N	Y	A star for every time I read the book!!!!	This book is not self absorbed!  I listened to the CD that is spoken by the author... she honestly shares her own experiences with you!  I do not see how the other critics say that she talks herself up.  Rather she shares parts of her life that gives the reader a perspective.  I would wager the people that couldn't get past the poem reading her book need a book with steps 1-10 to a better life... rather then giving you fluff of that sort this book shares with you how to look at your life from a differant point of view... The author, which has changed my life.  And when ever I face a difficult decision or a difficult period in life... I honestly find consolation by looking at life a little more openly through this book.  I am honestly shocked that others could have such a strong reaction against it... but isn't that with all great works?<br />I hope you do too.	2001-10-17
US	50824682	R1MVPST4VNWD3O	0965155412	865506986	Energies: Book of Basics	Books	5	4	4	N	N	EXCELLENT	The other review was very insiteful, I myself do not see a lacking because she wrote a book on insights rather then with wit.  This author is AMAZING...  Nothing that she writes have I found any real fault with.  She doesn't say &quot;this is what you do&quot;.  Rather this is the type of book that you read to really connect to energies in general through knowledge and in so connect all the things that you will learn and have learned together rather then limit your view of the world.	2001-09-19
US	50824682	RHYWAAFAAULFV	0875428940	33860849	The Robin Wood Tarot	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	LOVE this Deck	I consider this deck to be, for the most part, a redrawn Rider-Waite deck.  I love the colors, the art, and beauty of this deck! This is more of symbolism of art rather then symbolism through the more esoteric arts.  I feel love from every card, even the ones that are not so easy to digest.  This is the deck I would suggest to start with!  I would suggest it to anyone that is looking for a deck to become good friends to.  This is a type of friend that tells you the truth in a loving way.  The design on the back allows for the deck to be read reversed.  There is also a book that is written by the artist that gives you a new perspective on the details of this deck... I would suggest that also if you plan on owning this deck and using it... (if you own any books by cunningham this artist has drawings in several of his books)  light,love,laughter -bookmage	2001-08-07
US	50824682	RKV07Y5DPZZ7U	1563895730	851220782	The Sandman: The Dream Hunters	Books	3	3	7	N	Y	Good but not to die for	so this book was great and very endearing story, I don't know if I would tell the casual reader to spend 20 dollars on a book that they will finish in twenty-thirty minutes though.  If you are a fan of Neil Gaiman you will not be disappointed.  I love his work and love this but it is not for the casual reader looking for a good tale... it rather fits a mood or rings true to a deeper part of oneself that you just might be in the mood to read...  hope I didn't offend any Gaiman fans... I did really enjoy the book but I just wish I didn't buy the book.  On the lighter side my roommate was very happy with the book and happy that he bought it.	2001-08-07
US	50824682	RNEY0PZ1QDVAG	0142300454	868663423	Awakening (Sweep, No. 5)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Keeps up the good run	So, yesterday as the long awaited (a whole month) book comes out I stayed up till past the witching hour quickly gobbling this story up. I couldn't imagine reading this book by itself but it does keep a good pace as far as it is written in the series.  About the story developement... I don't want to spoil anything... Das Boot has a nasty face lift Love is found again and it is beautiful. And someone who was an interesting side character is \\"hunted\\"--- Light Love and Laughter...	2001-08-07
US	50824682	R3736TNCGNVONV	1567187226	760557228	Beneath a Mountain Moon	Books	4	1	1	N	N	the cover is what caught me and the story line netted me in	First I like the author.  I read this story a while ago, but my impressions that I remember are that the story was nicely woven together in a few strings, a few of the sideline story plots seemed a little thin and the main plot was about two hereditary lines of traditional witches where one was the good line (the main charactor) and the other (obviosly the bad line) was on the hunt to destroy the good line because of some hard feelings starting a century ago... (OK, so I will have to admit that I thought that was a little juvinille for a plot, but at the same time I suppose the world could produce more strange real life plots and therefore not completely unbelievable)....  What really caught me in the book was the main charactor being a Witch who is on the hunt to figure some strange things out..I really really enjoyed this woman!!!!  Even with its flaws I enjoyed it and I enjoyed experiencing through the heroine and some of the side charactors(as truth being implied in fiction, I believe Ravenwolfe put a lot of true witchcraft in this book) I recommened this book and I might be rereading it someday (something I hardly do with books :)	2001-04-03
US	50824682	R12NRQD767554	1567183417	212250148	Pagan Ways: Finding Your Spirituality in Nature	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	Simple Simple Simple	This book should not to be used to find out the wheres and whys of magick, this book is a darn good finding out the who we are in the path! It touches some basic concepts of how we use our tools and groups and what the things are that mean something to us witches.  My most treasured part of reading this book was that I felt so much respect for my path when I was finished reading it.  Ohhh I have read the damnation and all the pain and suffering that those on this path had to carry, but this book made me feel part of a bigger something and with it's very light touch in the history of how we (the pagans) became where we are! Many Blessings and may you find the path for you that will help you touch your soul with love and reverance.	2001-03-21
US	50824682	R34LOYRBMFIQZ5	0806927798	209615427	The Illustrated Guide To Wicca	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Well Done	This book was excellent for myself... I have been studying for a several years off and on, but when this book was able to give me again a Generalized Overview of everything that might get lost in books that hold a larger more magnified scope of the subject. The only set back of this book was that it was a little limited... This being said I think that the only thing that I have found constant in all the books that I have read is what this book puts in the truly simple guidebook of wiccan. All work in the spiritual matters seems to only be glanced at in this book with simple earth based truths giving mostly only a full but low in detail overview of the modern Wiccan religion. I would deeply suggest this book for quick weekend read so that you will either know if the wiccan path is for you, or if you already know then maybe you will revisit the knowledge that you might have skipped over in the longer books. All in all, this book has been an aid in my path... may it be so in yours if you do read it. Many Blessings Magebox	2001-03-21
US	50824682	R2HRZ56N59IER2	1855885999	552374463	A Handbook for Light Workers	Books	3	7	12	N	Y	A book of exercises	This is just so you all have one more opinion out there... I have only read a few chapters, the reason is that it is not quite an easy book to read for entertainment.  The authors views were from the \\"white light\\" perspective, but his personality of writing was not \\"grabbing\\" for me.<br />It has been a while since I had the book in front of me so I will do the best to remember... It started out with a couple chapters to gather the authors perspective, then it moves to endless chapters of exercises. Yes the exercises have a good deal of information to describe a situation and how the situation is applicable in our world then it tells you how to deal with the such and such situation.  One small example is how to ground energy in a car/plane.  One of the problems that this book has was that it seemed to Exude an opinion that as long as your doing white light things that your not in any danger of doing anything improper.  So if I got the wrong opinion of the auther then it is clear that I do not agree with how he writes his exercises and if I did understand his standing as it is written in his book then I would disagree with him outright and suggest a more grounded approach to the subject.<br /> There are a lot of things to learn from the book though, and I don't want to dismiss it, since I love the white light perspective, I just have to say that if you buy it that I would not expect to make it the only book to base your knowledge on. The one instance that I would suggest it to a person is if they are battling Fear. Since working with white light has no room for fear. Ultimately though I suggest actually dealing with the origin of the fear. Not to get off subject though.<br />Blessed Be	2001-03-21
US	50824682	RKA6IIGAZMU7F	1557000026	645868196	The Secret Doctrine: The Synthesis of Science, Religion, and Philosophy	Books	2	6	24	N	Y	Wow negative 20 reviews because I couldn't read the book	Ok so you people do not like that fact that I gave this book a 1 star (20 negative and 1 positive ratings on my review) so this is what I originally said:<br />\\"I didn't take head of the word of thy brotheren of ours who WARNED us to think twice... now I have a book that I don't think I will get the honor of spending the years to work with it to \\"appreciate\\" it.\\"<br />The reason that I said this was that I knew that this book was going to be a very advanced read, and it was, but that it also seemed to be written in a very reader unfriendly manner unless you have somewhat of a large grasp and deep interest in the Theosophical views and can take very very large doses of a dry read.  Now I love myself a good non-fiction book and it is read the quicker for actually being written with some wit. This book was about as exciting as picking up a dictionary for me though. Putting it into context it would be a very old dictionary.  Now I wish I could write a review that would be to a higher standing... please ignore this review if you already have some deep knowledge into the Theosophical ideas... because I am writing to the casual spiritual reader.  If you have no idea of the Theosophical Society and haven't read Blavastky before... then I will again say look at the book before you buy it... unless you want to send it back to Amazon.com if you return it.  I did keep my copy so maybe some day I can actually get into a very exorbent mood to read the book... And if you think this review was long winded then let you know the book is quite large.	2000-12-05
US	50824682	R3FQ28NRS43QK2	1567182542	191329023	Wiccan Mysteries: Ancient Origins & Teachings	Books	5	1	1	N	N	a needed history lesson	So many people hold a &quot;religion&quot; without ever having a true grasp on why they do what they do...  Even though this modern spiritualism of the new age somewhat transends &quot;religion&quot;-- I have more of a Joseph Campbell view that Mythology is a way to relay a deeper truth then what can be told.  This book covers what everyone should know about the beginnings of &quot;western&quot; thought on Dieties and Mythology... Though this book certainly isn't the end all and be all of history,  it is essential and very helpful for anyone that follows any &quot;Western&quot; religion or a good start for those of the &quot;Eastern&quot; paths also...  It boils down to the God and Goddess...  I would write more but I can't remember the book fully (many moons since I have read it) and I  have loaned out my copy...  Blessed Be - Light Love and Laughter	2000-12-02
US	50824682	R3ROFMO1DJHXAW	0060964049	98800983	Tales of the City (Tales of the City Series, V. 1)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	EXCELLENT!	I am going to just write a generic review....  I loved it and read all 6 in the series.  This is the best one! The rest go a little into the left field stretching fiction pretty far.  But even so I would recommend this  book to everyone! (except maybe rednecks)	1999-11-27
US	50824682	R3J8C5QWD6WPEI	0385491026	75368334	Cat's Eye	Books	5	1	1	N	N	excellent!  I would recommend it to almost everyone.	I loved the story it gave a sincere and tantalizing story of girl growing up. I walked from it believing that I understood myself and the world a little bit better.  The other reviews seemed to be disturbed that it wasn't  a happy book?  It was a real book!  It was hard to think of it as fiction.  The discriptions of what Elaine saw and painted and felt, had me wanting to  paint and look and feel my own life.  (I wish I could write a better  review but I read the book over a year ago and picked it up again yesterday  reading through it and it inspired to write this.  The book was capturing  me just looking through it.)	1999-11-26
