US	50825175	R37AI0L723M2DH	0060175869	664906388	From Dawn to Decadence: 1500 to the Present: 500 Years of Western Cultural Life	Books	5	3	6	N	Y	The West is sadly in decline.  Read this book.	This is quite likely the best history book on Western civilization I have ever read.  When reading this book, you literally feel as though you are sitting in a well-informed and well-educated professor of history.  The book delves into some of the most important contributors of civilization throughout this era:  authors, artists, scuptures, playwriters, and themes.  You won't find much about war in the book.  This book is principally about the historical themes of Western civilization.  At the end of the book, the author does make some well-informed commentary on our own decadent culture.  The West is in decline.  Some of the things that indicate that this is the case is our sense of restlessness and lack of a sense of direction; the poorly-run socialist (government)-run schools in our inner-cities; and the lack of unity within society.  This would be an excellent book for the dolts who reside in our legislatures, as many of them do not seem to understand the problem that the West is in decline, and that they are the cause of it.	2005-07-11
US	50825175	RBWDY3BV254IB	0140714766	930167934	King Lear (The Pelican Shakespeare)	Books	5	4	9	N	N	North Korean dictator Kim Jung Ill and King Lear?	Some have said that there are no memorable lines in the King Lear play.  I would beg to differ.  I am including a few:  \\"Speak what we feel, not what we ought to say.\\" -- King Lear (Act 5, Scene 3), Shakespeare.  \\"This is the excellent foppery of the world : that when we are sick in fortune -- often the surfeits of our own behaviour -- we make guilty of our disasters the sun, the moon, and stars, as if we were villains on necessity, fools by heavenly compulsion, knaves, thieves, and treachers by spherical predominance, drunkards, liars and adulterers by an enforced obedience of planetary influence.\\" ---- William Shakespeare; spoken by Edmond in *King Lear*, act 1 scene 2.<br /><br />When William Shakespeare wrote his plays, I doubt he thought much about the effect of his works hundreds of years in the future.  Just as I write these words, I doubt they will have a lasting impression.  Yet King Lear does leave us a lasting impression of power:  even the strongest, more arrogant men can fall and faulter if the wrong conditions exist.  May we all hope that one day North Korean dictator Kim Jung Ill meet the fate of King Lear.	2005-07-07
US	50825175	RR3A2BMZZ6AEN	0761986286	559567711	The McDonaldization of Society	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Ritzer is not an anticapitalist, and I praise him for not soliciting legislative solutions.	George Ritzer's well known book, \\"The McDonaldization of Society,\\" refers to society's increasingly hurried pace towards more and more rationalization.  Rationalization is the means by which managers find more and more effecient methods of accomplishing corporate tasks.  Such tasks do not require that employees be smart or skillful.  Over time this process begins to take over the entire society, with the result that we have tract homes in dull, uninteresting suburban areas (read: Irvine, California), and uninteresting, large, stores, such as Super Kmart, Wal-Mart, etcetera.  Ritzer is not an anticapitalist, and I praise him for not soliciting legislative solutions.  If one seeks more individualized stores in one's neighbhorhoods and cities, one should shop at such stores.  This is a highly influential book and I'd highly recommend it.<br /><br />Ritzer does say that this process will be hard to stop, and that it is likely to continue.  He does offer a few solutions, but most of them were simply jokes.  I would say that the biggest problem with this book is the prose.  It's awful.  Yes, many highly educated Ph.d's don't know how to write well.  It's unfortunate, but it's a product of the graduate program that many of them entered into.  There is a lot of fluff--useless sentences aimed at making the book longer.  The book could have been edited a lot.<br /><br />Michael	2005-06-27
US	50825175	R17XBLEYWJA4OS	089526692X	8533152	God and Man at Yale: The Superstitions of 'Academic Freedom'	Books	5	17	27	N	N	This is one of the best books that I have read criticizing t	It was an honor to read God and Man at Yale, by William Buckley, Jr.  In his book, Mr. Buckley writes (in his incredible prose that is unmatched by any other political pundit around) that the 1950s Yale has reached a turning point:  it can continue to move towards secularism and socialism, and ultimately work against the public good, or it can choose to proselytize the virtues of individualism and spiritualism (the Christian sort, according to Buckley).<br /><br />Buckley argues that Yale should stand for something.  Skepticism is not a worthy virtue if it does not arrive at a conclusion.  Skepticism should be in furtherance of conviction, Buckley argues, rather than skepticism for skepticism sakes.  This is a departure from the Socratic method, where the entire purpose is proving how little we know, never arriving at a point or conclusion.<br /><br />Buckley is perhaps the modern architect of a conversation revolution that has been growing over the last forty years.  Some of the theoretical prescriptions that Buckley has outlined have not been proven to be successful over time.  Buckley urges Yale alumni to withhold providing support to the university so long as it continues to advance secularism and collectivism.  This may well have modified the behavior of the administration at the edges, but it certainly has not changed the foundation of the modern university, let alone Yale.  Yale is now at the epicenter of liberalism, spewing as much liberalism as a modern Berkeley classroom.  It is arguable that most Yale alumni do not care about the values that Buckley had preached, and if this is so, Buckley is still vindicated since he argued that Yale alumni should simply investigate to determine if the university is furthering values that run counter to their own.<br /><br />It does make sense, though, that a university should not be a hot bed of crazy ideas simply to allow students the chance to make the right decisions as to what is the public good.  Some causes are, simply put, not part of the public good - such as Nazis and socialism.  Under Buckley's system, which I would support, the alumni of Yale (and most other universities) should withhold contributing to the university unless they fire communist and socialistic professors, especially those teaching classes such as Marxism, which gives students an unrealistically positive impression of Marx, as well as economics, where modern economic principles are likely to be slammed in favor of socialistic economic principles.  This is one of the best books that I have read criticizing the malaise in academia.causes are, simply put, not part of the public good - such as Nazis and socialism.  Under Buckley's system, which I would support, the alumni of Yale (and most other universities) should withhold contributing to the university unless they fire communist and socialistic professors, especially those teaching classes such as Marxism, which gives students an unrealistically positive impression of Marx, as well as economics, where modern economic principles are likely to be slammed in favor of socialistic economic principles.  This is one of the best books that I have read criticizing the malaise in academia.   <br />	2005-06-21
US	50825175	RR62LCMIZJO68	0812694333	476681057	The Simpsons and Philosophy: The D'oh! of Homer (Popular Culture and Philosophy)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	I would highly recommend reading this intellectually stimula	This is a book that is 2/3 about philosophy and 1/3 about The Simpsons.  The fact that the book goes to great lengths to informing the reader about philosophy is one of the benefits about the book.  If this book did not inform the reader, many readers would not understand the philosophical references when applied to The Simpsons show.<br /><br />Not all of the essays are of equal value.  Some are not worth reading (although, thankfully, the editors were wise to add these essays to the end, where they belonged.  Thank you, editors).<br /><br />I always knew that there was a lot of depth to The Simspons.  Each of us had our own reason for believing that there is something that is impressive and fascinating about the show.  However, this book provides the philosophical context from which we can enjoy the show.  The Simsons teaches us a lot about ethics, morality, politics, American civilization, and history.  To gain a deeper bond with this show, I would highly recommend reading this intellectually stimulating book.	2005-05-18
US	50825175	R2KTFBJHYPC52O	1400054184	925221592	How to Talk to a Liberal (If You Must): The World According to Ann Coulter	Books	5	14	38	N	N	If you like books making fun of liberals, you'll love this.	I have had the privilage of seeing Ann Coulter in person.  Ann Coulter is not afraid to say exactly what she feels even if liberals condemn her.  Ann Coulter is not afraid to say some essential truths: that liberals do not care for the United States (and side with our enemies), support high taxes, hate ordinary Americans, and believe that the United States should subject itself to France and Germany (the John Kerry approach).<br /><br />Ann Coulter's style is not for everyone.  Her style is filled with entertaining and witty lines.  She has a great deal of self-confidence, similar to that marked by George W. Bush, for which he receives similar condemnation.<br /><br />If you are a Republican, support low taxes, believe in a vigorous defense of this nation, you will like this book.  However, if you're the liberal wimp who is mocked in this book, perhaps you will not like this book, but at least you'll understand your opponents point of view.<br /><br />Michael Gordon	2005-01-10
US	50825175	RZ8QLPQIWKY2E	067173458X	781207896	Inside the CIA: Revealing the Secrets of the World's Most Powerful Spy Agency	Books	2	2	5	N	N	There are no secrets revealed.  That's expected, though.	The CIA is a secretive organization.  So it comes as no surprise that a book that states that it reveals the top secrets of the CIA is merely a hodgepodge of technical mumbo jumbo relating to how the agency works.  It is not very informative, but what can you really expect?  No one is really going to get to the bottom of what the CIA knows presently and what they are telling the president.  It is better that way.  Policymakers are able to surprise our enemies.  At the same time, because the agency is secretive, we are able to benefit from novels and movies that probably exaggerate the day to day life of a CIA spy.  If you're really interested in knowing secrets, I'd suggest reading a crime novel or joining the CIA itself.  But this book does not help.	2004-12-27
US	50825175	RXRRZ2I7ODRA7	0393318486	218150245	How the Mind Works	Books	4	3	4	N	N	An excellent book, although some sections ramble a bit.	Steven Pinker's book makes an attempt to describe \\"how the mind works.\\"  But does he succeed?  Pinker does not discuss the mind at length in this book and offers few revoluationary theories on how the mind actually works.  Instead, the title serves as a useful way of obtaining the reader's attention, which makes sense.  In reality, this book is about evolutionary psychology, why people think the way they do, and the advantages that have accrued to our ancestors for believing and thinking the way they did then -- and the way we continue to this day.<br /><br />One of the best areas of Pinker's book is his discussion of evolutionary psychology.  In that section, Pinker answers a lot of important time-old questions, such as why do we have friends?  What is the purpose of war?  Why does every culture have religion and marriage?  Why do men seem to value virginity in the women they are marrying?  Why are parents very protective of their children?  Why are brothers and sisters rivals?	2004-12-16
US	50825175	RSYL80KO8R6E6	1594200203	809431414	The Right Nation: Conservative Power in America	Books	5	2	5	N	N	The Conservative Movement has a lot of work to do.	The Right Nation: Conservative Power in America is a delightful read, well-written, well-argued, and is informative.  When the 2004 election came, many Democrats thought that something has fundamentally changed and shifted in America.  What ever happened to the liberal days of Clinton, they ask.  Well, as this book points out, America was always a conservative nation when compared with the rest of the world.  America has lower taxes, a strong military, and a GDP of $11 trillion dollars, and some of the largest corporations in the world.<br /><br />Far too often I think many people think this has happened automatically.  Some think we are \\"lucky\\" and that at some point in the future another nation may become a superpower.  Although the U.S. has been a conservative nation since its Founding, it has been quite liberal, at least politically, from the 1960s to 1994, in terms of its voting patterns for Congress.  Conservative intellectuals spent forty years articulating their message, refining, and publishing their message; they were often mocked as strange folks, and the voting pattern showed it (witness the huge defeat of Barry Goldwater).  The message eventually carried the day for Ronald Reagan, the GOP Congress of 1994, and George W. Bush.  The only problem I have is that even if we are a conservative nation, we still have a socialistic Social Security system, still have a corporate income tax that reaches 35% (while many European socialistic nations have plans to lower theirs even lower than ours!), still have too many public employees, we still have an unaccountable public school system, and our taxation system has harmed our healthcare by creating incentives for doctors to provide too much treatment in some cases.  We still have more work to do.  The conservative movement will have plenty of work to do for years and years.	2004-11-28
US	50825175	R2GLJS7EPCBB1U	0446695092	407263049	Exporting America: Why Corporate Greed Is Shipping American Jobs Overseas	Books	1	9	35	N	N	OUTRAGEOUSLY MISINFORMED!!	This is the worst book one could possibly read if one is interested in learning about how economics works in the real world.  None of the advice in this book would be useful to anyone living in the real world.  Instead, Mr. Dobbs' analysis of the economy is flat out wrong.  No country would be wise in adopting his analysis or conclusions.  Instead, we should ignore the Dobbs' of the world and instead focus on making our country competitive.  Certainly our idiotic 35% corporate income tax rate is not making us any more competitive!	2004-10-13
US	50825175	R2U4NYWYXJHREU	1882577973	206864528	It's Getting Better All the Time: 100 Greatest Trends of the Last 100 years	Books	5	15	21	N	N	This book is the antidote to so much pessimism	Every four years we're told how civilization has fallen into ill-rebuke.  The chattering classes continue to repeat the Marxist slogan that the poor have fallen behind while the idle rich have gotten richer by stealing from the poor.  But this rare optimistic book knocks those arguments cold.  As a civilization, Americans are healthier, smarter, wealthier, happier, than at any time in America or the world at any point in civilization.  There is not such a thing as the so-called &quot;good old days.&quot;  Today is the good old days, as is the future.  In this book, you will see that by any measurement, the American people have continued to make lasting and important changes.  From inventions to wealth to health and education, we have made remarkable progress and should be proud that we have a civilization that has encouraged us to do so.  And this book will provide the evidence needed to rebuke the annoying liberal noisemakers such as Michael Moore who continue to look to the welfare-states of Europe as the utopian view of the future.<br />Michael Gordon	2004-07-08
US	50825175	R1R5JIYZZZGXWJ	1930865023	604663090	Mail at the Millennium: Will the Postal Service Go Private?	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Let us hope that one day we can see a privatized USPS, Inc.	Is it any surprise that Americans complain most about public-sector monopolies--the postal service, public schools, and Social Security?  This is an excellent book explaining why it is not a radical concept to privatize the Postal Service.  There are far more complicated companies than the postal service--including wireless telephone companies--that are able to remain in the private sector.  The main reason why the postal service remains a government monopoly is due to the postal union workers--900,000 strong--who have an interest in keeping the system, as ineffecient as it is, just the way it is, as that is the way to keep their jobs.  That is unfortunate, because an entrenched faction has decided to keep their ineffecient monopoly, which does not serve the public interest.<br />This book also counters many inaccurate arguments used to keep the postal service as it is.  For instance, some have said that postage rates are not high because they have not risen faster than inflation.  Well.  Not everything increases at the rate of inflation.  In the technology sector, namely computers, we have actually seen prices fall because of productivity gains.  If the postal service was not so labor intensive, it is plausible that postage rates would fall.  Let us hope that one day we can see a privatized USPS, Inc.<br />Michael	2004-06-30
US	50825175	RH48BGB832AMU	1400047714	723303930	Pigs at the Trough	Books	1	12	46	N	N	Maybe Ms. Huffington should direct her anger elsewhere	Arianna Huffington, the failed gubernatorial candidate in the 2003 California recall campaign, attempts to write a subject to which she has very little actual experience.  First, Ms. Huffington's premise is that most corporate executives are greedy and therefore laws need to be enacted to hamstring our managers who wish to exercise the best interest of their shareholders.  She does not emphasize how any of her so-called \\"reforms\\" will actually benefit long-term shareholders who wish for chief executives to take risks to earn a decent return on their investment.  Further, Ms. Huffington fails to emphasize how there are already laws on the books to punish chief executives who have abused the trust positions to which they have been appointed.  It is the executive branch's duty to punish those who engange in fraud, something the Bush Administration is already doing.  However, we would not hear about that in Ms. Huffington's book, because that would hurt her premise, which is that Bush is in on the fraud too.<br />Most of the research contained in Ms. Huffington's book is related to stories she has read about, not people or companies she has actually chosen to research on her own.  As such, practically anyone who has a modicum of research experience could write a similar book of her type -- without having any documentary evidence to prove the assertions made therein.<br />One thing that is most lacking in Ms. Huffington's book is the notion that honest chief executives are able to work on behalf of their shareholders and employees.  There is a sense that the position of chief executive necessarily entails a sense of greed that will infect the entire operations of the company.  In a sense, by stating that all chief executives are guilty, Ms. Huffington is too leniant towards those truly guilty of malefensense.  In truth, the system does work: witness the convictions the U.S. Department of Justice has been able to secure on crooked corporate executives.  But the capitalistic system itself--a markedly effecient system where sharehoulders can exercise their disapproval of managers at any time--will carry on despite Ms. Huffington's heckling.  One could hope the same could be said about our so-called \\"great\\" governmental institutions such as Social Security, the public schools, and the post office.stic system itself--a markedly effecient system where sharehoulders can exercise their disapproval of managers at any time--will carry on despite Ms. Huffington's heckling.  One could hope the same could be said about our so-called \\"great\\" governmental institutions such as Social Security, the public schools, and the post office.	2004-06-30
US	50825175	R1IMHZF80WA4VJ	0465081436	292690162	Applied Economics: Thinking Beyond Stage One	Books	5	21	24	N	N	Sowell Urges us to Think Ahead	Thomas Sowell's &quot;Applied Economics&quot; ought to be required reading in every high school and college economics, politics, and English courses.  While Mr. Sowell is Ph.D economist and fellow at the Hoover Institute at Stanford, his ideas are useful even to the non-economist.  As a society, we tend to be taken in too easily by people who make irrational arguments that sound good at first glance but produce miserable results since no one thought about the next step.  Often times, too many words are politically popular but are actually quite harmful.  Such words include:  &quot;living wage,&quot; &quot;consumer protection,&quot; &quot;rent control,&quot; etcetera.  When these ideas are actually applied in practice, the results rarely meet the rhetoric over the long-run.  Politicians only tend to care about what will get them re-elected, and as a result, few of them have an incentive to think about what will happen 10 years from now.  As a result, many often escape the blame since the poor results will be far removed from their disasterous policies.  This, of course, could easily be construed as a problem with democracy, but instead, my feeling is that it is a problem with our educational system.  If our educational system actually educated citizens to think deeply about what would be the consequences of certain policies, perhaps the heated irrational logic emanating from certain politicians would cease.  Perhaps such rhetoric would continue to work in irrational hotspots such as Berkeley, but rare for it to work elsewhere.  One could only hope.  This book is a must read for everyone -- regardless of who you are.<br />Michael Gordon	2004-06-28
US	50825175	R3I9JMUD8XFYOD	0684852861	48882658	First, Break All the Rules: What the World's Greatest Managers Do Differently	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Great book on Common Sense Management	When did we lose our common sense?  In college?  Whenever this happened (and whatever the cause), this book helps to reclaim our common sense when applied to the world of managing employees of small, medium, and large-based companies.<br />This book is essential reading for economics majors, MBA students, and those working in management.  It cuts through the jargon and helps people realize that management requires an understanding of human nature.  It returns us to psychology.  After all, the business world is bound by the rules of psychology.  Violate the rules and you may harm your business.<br />The book delivers harsh facts.  Not all employees are going to do well at every task.  Managers: stop thinking that everyone can do anything.  They can't.  It's unreasonable to believe it.  It's better to create incentives -- both monetary and prestigue -- on the idea that someone may want to continue working in a similar capacity.  The book cites attorneys who start out at a law firm at junior associate, associate, senior associate, and then work on to junior partner, partner, and senior partner.  Throughout the process, the attorney does not radically change what he or she is doing.  Instead, their work merely becomes more interesting and their pay (and equity in the firm) rises over time.  That is, rather than promote someone to a position that is radically different from what they are doing, offer perks and monetary advantages as time goes on to your employees.<br />The book says to promote strengths rather than overcome employee weaknesses.  Some people are just never going to be able to do well at certain tasks.  The book's realistic edge says we ought to understand this and move on.  We can't strive for perfectin in every avenue.  Make sure that your employees are doing what they do best at.  Therefore, the goals of the firm -- and the employees' morale, will coincide, allowing harmony to exist in the firm.  This book has many golden nuggets of wisdom, and it definitely is a keeper.<br />Michaelfinitely is a keeper.<br />Michael	2004-06-23
US	50825175	R3B91E9VBTJ3N4	0767906845	727827893	The Art of the Steal: How to Protect Yourself and Your Business from Fraud, America's #1 Crime	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The beginner's guide to understanding fraud.	This is the beginner's guide to understanding the sinister world of fraud in the United States and throughout the world.  Mr. Abagnale describes some of the techniques confidence men use to further their malicious aims -- and what we can do to stop it.  Perhaps one of the most interesting chapters is the one on counterfeiting.  Here, we tend to think of those crazy characters who think they can create a $20 bill from their laser printer.  Instead, all sorts of things are counterfeited, unfortunately.  Those who counterfeit very detailed, expensive, and highly technical products, such as airline parts, are malicious individuals who have absolutely no regard for the welfare of those who they are subjecting to this abuse.<br />Thankfully, as Mr. Abagnale points out, many of us are capable of preventing ourselves from being victims.  We do not have to be victims.  If we heed the advice of Mr. Abagnale--formerly a confidence man himself--perhaps we can prevent further abuses.  We'll never stop fraud, he tells us.  Of course.  But if we read his and other books on stopping it, at least we won't be the victims.	2004-06-22
US	50825175	R2YBXBVLKN9ODJ	002901915X	321553501	The Seven Fat Years:  And How to Do It Again	Books	5	19	21	N	N	The True Story on How Economics Works	Robert Bartley, former editor of the Wall Street Journal (may he rest in peace), has written one of the best accounts of the 1980s economic policies, explaining what led to the economic growth, and what can be done to re-create these policies once again.<br />Many people who claim to oppose supply-side economics never explain how the theory works.  The notion that Reagan's tax cuts were mere &quot;trickle down&quot; economics is buttressed by the fact that no one claims that the money will &quot;trickle down.&quot;  That is not how the economic philosophy works in theory or in practice.  Instead, the theory considers high taxes to be another example in which a high cost placed on a product or service is likely to result in fewer interested buyers.  Similarly, high marginal tax rates are more likely to stiffle growth since the reward for working additional hours is diminished.  Those with small businesses, or those who invest, may decide that the extra work will not translate into higher returns, and thus may produce less.  That is not good for the economy because this stiffles economic growth, and is a recipe for stagnation, which is exactly what happened in the 1970s.  So reduce taxes to create more growth.  The marginal rate fell from 70% to 28% during Reagan's tenure.<br />The other part of Reagan's program was to have a tigheter monetary policy.  By tightening the dollar, it would reduce inflation.  Thus, tighten the dollar, reduce inflation, and reduce taxes, and create growth.  That is exactly what happened.  During Reagan's tenure, inflation went down and growth went up.  THIS IS AN INDISPUTABLE FACT.<br />The left does not like this theory because it contradicts the notion that government has an effect in creating economic growth.<br />But no matter what the liberals want to think, the young economist who went to Eureka College -- Ronald Reagan -- outsmarted all of them.  His plan worked, while Jimmy Carter, the man who thought he knew everything, was an abyssmal failure.<br />Michael Gordonn abyssmal failure.<br />Michael Gordon	2004-06-17
US	50825175	R1DAFEC6M7CM35	0812966805	16714682	A Future Perfect: The Challenge and Promise of Globalization	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The best book on globalization!	GLOBALIZATION is a process where people, things, ideas, capital and commerce is able to freely travel anywhere in the world.  As a result, the notion of comparative advantages are becoming far more frequent.  More people are exposed to competition than ever before, and this has been a good thing for most people (i.e., witness the cheaper and better American cars).  Globalization has been very helpful in attacking the status quo -- entrenched, pesky bureacratic public sectors unions, who take their job as a right, not a privilage; getting workers to think more about productivity, since, if they do not succeed, operations can move elsewhere.<br />Most important, I would say that globalization has reformed governments.  As the book explains, there are still extremes on the left (Nader) and the right (Buchanan) who don't understand economics and are perfectly willing to harp on the same old course they've been on.  But as this book explains, many governments are learning that they too are not immune from competition.  Countries must open their borders up to foreign capital, privatize state services, come up with more flexible labor laws (i.e., France's radical law that forbids anyone from working more than 35-hours a week.  However, without such a law, the average person in the U.S. works only 34 hours a week).<br />I am even more excited about globalization after reading this book.  It's very timely, written in the familiar prose found in The Economist, and well worth the money!	2004-06-04
US	50825175	R63SG8WGU2079	0451527100	201213691	The Communist Manifesto (Signet Classics)	Books	1	27	84	N	Y	Ideas have consequences: Marxism Kills Millions	This book has had the most disasterous consequences in the world.  Idealistic and naive, Marx and Engels wrote a book that has no basis in fact, history, empirical experience, and it has been repudiated entirely.  Absolutely none of the material mentioned in question has turned out to be true, nor will it.<br />When Marx wrote this  book, it was during a time when the average standard of living was far lower than it is now.  Few could imagine that today, in 2004, the average person would be overweight (a national epidemic, not poverty or hunger!), and that poor people are even able to find enough cash for luxories such as DSL, microwaves, a car, and an apartment with air conditioning.  The poor now even save for their retirement through their ownership of the economy through portable 401(K) plans.<br />Sadly, although none of Marx's ideas are true, and the time period that gave him the material to write has since passed, many of his goals have been accomplished.<br />(1).  Marx advocated that all land be owned by the state.  It seems as though today's liberal still support this.  They're always voting for ballot initiatives that will result in the state buying -- with our money -- property that ought to be owned privately.<br />(2) A high progressive income tax.  Yes.  Although Bush lowered the highest marginal tax rate from 39.6% to 35%, taxes are still historically high.<br />(3) Marx was against inheritance.  So are liberals.  They support a 55% tax on whatever is left.<br />(4)  Confiscation of property from those who leave the country.  Well.  Isn't that what liberals are for?  If the conditions are so bad that you leave one state for another, they sometimes impose one-time moving taxes!  My, my!<br />(5) Centralization of transportation... hmm..  They're always talking about rail, etcetera.  They would still like to be in charge of national transportation, but thankfully, Reagan deregulated the industry.<br />(10)  Marx wanted free, public schools.  Well, it isn't exactly free (high property taxes pay for it), and it isn't any good, either (ask any parent if they're happy with the public educational system and you are likely to get a no).  I cannot believe that this book is even in print anymore.  It's oudated.  The only two people who could approve of Marx are the typical elitist university professor and John Kerry / Howard Dean / Al Gore supporters.sn't exactly free (high property taxes pay for it), and it isn't any good, either (ask any parent if they're happy with the public educational system and you are likely to get a no).  I cannot believe that this book is even in print anymore.  It's oudated.  The only two people who could approve of Marx are the typical elitist university professor and John Kerry / Howard Dean / Al Gore supporters.	2004-05-28
US	50825175	R7NQXSUR8ZHGE	0785262199	266824494	Uncle Sam's Plantation: How Big Government Enslaves America's Poor and What We Can Do About It	Books	4	14	27	N	N	Good Ideas	Have you ever read an opinionated book to which you agree with, but feel dissapointed, anyway?  That describes Ms. Parker's book.  Her diagnosis of the poor's plight--that they have been &quot;trained&quot; to be helpless through governmental action--is well documented.  No objective observer could question that Jesse Jackson and Al Sharpton serve the interests of black Americans seeking to escape poverty.<br />One problem, however, with Parker's book is that it is mostly autobiographical and abstract.  While her arguments were sound--the liberals have ruined our public schools, made the poor dependent on welfare and governmental goodies--she did not use a lot of outside sources to document specific instances of the problems she illustrates.  Someone could be far more persuasive, however, if they were to abstractly describe the problem, and providing specific examples of how this came to be.  Then, the author should provide a list of ways to improve this problem, along with specific examples and statistics which bulster the argument.<br />PROSE.  Ms. Parker's prose is sadly quite weak.  To attract a reader, write seductively.  Words mean far more than simple communication; certain words minted together ignite certain neurotrino transmittors that define such ideas as &quot;interesting.&quot;<br />Reforms: Ms. Parker deserves strong praise for her suggestions on school choice, Social Security reforms, and welfare reform.  However, most of her ideas have been advanced elsewhere, such as the Cato Institute.<br />Michael	2004-05-16
US	50825175	R3QRP95O6UAKKJ	067178658X	531622442	The FBI: Inside the World's Most Powerful Law Enforcement Agency	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Excellent insider account of the agency	The FBI is one of the most respected yet least understood agencies in the federal government.  Given it is frequently misunderstood, this is an excellent book to inform the public about the FBI's history, the good and the bad.<br />The book focuses on an important concept, and that is the difference between the occupant of a position in the government, and the position itself.  While past directors of the FBI may have had questionable integrity (Hoover, Sessions), this does not cast a negative light on the institution itself.  People are corrupt, not institutions.  No one is above the law, and yes, the author makes a good point that everyone who works for the FBI should be subject to the same rules and regulations that any common citizen does.  That means off-duty speedy FBI agents must be subject to the same traffic rules as anyone else.  No one is above the law, not even the president, as Mr. Clinton learned.<br />I especially enjoyed learning about some of the past techniques the FBI used to shut down major criminal organizations.  As Kessler makes note, many criminal enterprises work similar to businesses.  One method -- creating shell companies, including cell phone companies and bars -- to meet and get to know these thugs -- is an incredible idea.  The FBI's surveillance techniques are second to none, and while the author was able to discuss some obvious ones, the FBI's true secrets are left unmentioned, a good thing for Joe Citizen who just wants criminals taken off the street.<br />An excellent book.	2004-05-08
US	50825175	R3EJ5MTDEZB6ZZ	074325998X	759058813	For Us, The Living: A Comedy of Customs	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Heinlein Brings up Many Original Ideas	Time-traveling books have always been a fascination of mine.  In Heinein's tale, the lead character, Perry Nelson, leaves his present FDR-period of 1939 for 2086.  It is always wise to consider that one's vision of the future is plagued by some of the events of the time period.  That is, even a book about the future is tied intrinsically to the period in which it was written.  I'm sure Mr. Nelson could never have imagined the internet, for instance, and it is not brought up.  However, Mr. Heinen does bring up a number of interesting points that appear to have rung true over time: he believes that the state should not involve itself at all with \\"private\\" matters such as sexual relations or even the definition of marriage.  (Twenty years after he wrote this book, in the 1960s, a generation actually made sure his message became true).  Heinen also explores the idea that people will correct the difficult spelling used in many English words.  We'll write words exactly as we hear them.  It's interesting that Mr. Heinlein thinks it would take so long to bring man to outerspace -- roughly 151 years into his future.  It's quite surprising that he did not think it may have happened sooner.  It is true as many have said that there is not a lot of plot to this book, and there isn't.  However, it offers a rare glimpse into the mind of someone writing in that time period and conjures up some radical ideas.<br />Michael Gordon	2004-04-20
US	50825175	R2LGU03GI7KP7R	0446673781	302948748	One L: The Turbulent True Story of a First Year at Harvard Law School	Books	3	10	20	N	N	The book probably does not represent the typical HLS Student	I'm not sure what to make of Turow's book.  Here is a guy who goes to Harvard Law School, an institution which has existed in its present form for well over 200 years.  As a first year law student, he has the nerve to have all these criticisms of the institution -- that it's hostile, that the law is not warm and fuzzy, that there are clear boundaries in the law, which seem to indicate that he has choosen the wrong field.  He seemed to be quite selfish in that he wanted the school to change many of its most cheerished methods of teaching to satisfy one alienated, empty-headed student.<br />All readers assume that one's first year at Harvard Law School is challenging.  Ironically, it does seem as though Harvard may have listened to Mr. Turow's complaints since I have not heard of the difficulty of the institution from other students/graduates.  It is possible that they have dumbed-down the curriculum to satisfy those who would prefer to complain than learn.<br />At the same time, this book certainly opens our perspective in how the law school class is set up, including the Socratic method, to which I was already quite familiar with.  I would urge readers not to think that Mr. Turow's experience is at all shared by most at Harvard -- or any other institution.  Remember that Mr. Turow just happened to want to write about his experience, but many others who choose not to write probably had drastically different experiences.  Maybe they choose to learn and excel rather than to criticize an institution ten times their age.<br />Mr. Turow's analysis of the other students also appears rather superficial and shallow.  The students are essentially grouped into the achievers, the complainers (who think of themselves as &quot;intellectuals,&quot; but who, in reality, are no more intellectual than a kindergardener with a crayon), and the professors who &quot;harass&quot; the students.  What about the exact types of questions one faces in law school.  How are the questions different from undergraduate life?  Is law school merely a tarriff to prevent competition in the legal professsion?  Also, as with most people who advocate change, Mr. Turow is remarkably short on specifics on how he would change the law school experience.  The lack of specifics is common for those who gripe about the present but are unable to explain an alternative system to which they aspire.<br />This is certainly an interesting book, but I would hesitate to think that it is the Bible of the Law School experience.  It is merely one story about one institution in a particular year.ferent from undergraduate life?  Is law school merely a tarriff to prevent competition in the legal professsion?  Also, as with most people who advocate change, Mr. Turow is remarkably short on specifics on how he would change the law school experience.  The lack of specifics is common for those who gripe about the present but are unable to explain an alternative system to which they aspire.  <br />This is certainly an interesting book, but I would hesitate to think that it is the Bible of the Law School experience.  It is merely one story about one institution in a particular year.	2004-04-09
US	50825175	REA34SHP39FOA	0205370713	779810378	Evolutionary Psychology: The New Science of the Mind (2nd Edition)	Books	5	10	28	N	Y	HUMAN CIVILIZATION FROM THE PRESENT: WHY WE ACT THIS WAY	Each day for twenty-something years I woke up to see reality as it was presented to me.  I noticed many patterns in life that are hard not to notice -- such as the difference between men and women in how they approach sexual opportunities.  Men will readily say yes, women firmly no.  Why?<br />Evolution is such an intriguing and elegant theory on its approach to our current behavior.  Boss's contention is that the present behaviors we see today in our modern era -- fear of snakes, high male sexual drive -- arose from our ancestors.  Those who did not have such characteristics did not become our ancestors.  Thus, over time, certain characteristics were more likely to be successful in the mating process, and those are the same characteristics we see today.  Boss's insight required a lot of keen intellectual insight into many different hypothesis.<br />Some of these hypothesis seemed far-fetched at first.  Who would think that there would be statistical differences in how maternal grandparents v. paternal grandparents relate to their grandchildren.  There are, however.  Maternal grandmothers have less risk in investing in a grandchild who is not biologically related since she is confident that her daughter is biologically hers, and she can be certain that her daughter's child is biologically related, too.  The hypothesis that paternal grandfathers would be most distant -- since they have the most to lose -- turned out to be true.  (Paternal grandfathers cannot be 100% certain that they fathered their son or daughter, and thus, they cannot be sure that that child's son or daughter is biologically related).<br />This is perhaps one of the most important contributions in scientific literature since Watson and Clark's published report on their findings of DNA.<br />Michael Gordon	2004-03-27
US	50825175	R21SASGF2XVFOX	0060529148	356154174	Give Me a Break: How I Exposed Hucksters, Cheats, and Scam Artists and Became the Scourge of the Liberal Media...	Books	5	6	10	N	N	An honest account of freedom and its benefits	John Stossel's book, \\"Give me a Break,\\" written in jargon-free prose, is aimed to counter the prevailing views emanating from government and the media.  While most politicians and the government claim to be helping us when they propose increased state or federal spending, regulations, and higher taxes, Mr. Stossel argues that we have should ignore the \\"intent\\" of politicians and the media and instead look at the \\"results\\" and \\"unintended consequences.\\"<br />By looking at the consequences for governmental and media decissions, Stossel is acting as a true journalist.  Anyone can copy governmental press releases, but it takes nerve, skill, patience, and a zealous search for the truth to ask, \\"Okay, okay, that is your goal, but what have you produced?\\"  The only reason the federal government has been able to spend $2.4 trillion of our money -- money spent mostly on junk, waste, fraud, and abuse -- is by telling us the great intentions in the spending.  The unintended consequence, of course, is that since the government is spending the money, there is less freedom since one concentrated organization -- rather than millions of individuals -- is making the spending decissions.  That makes economies less rational, creates higher unemployment, and lowers economic growth.  I wish more people would read Mr. Stoseel's book -- regardless of their political orientation -- especially since this is an important contribution to the world of political theory and investigative journalism of government.	2004-03-15
US	50825175	R1UB0HLGW8SGWK	0689863772	607003330	Duck for President (A Click, Clack Book)	Books	5	3	6	N	N	So the grass isn't truly greener on the other side.	This is a very entertaining children's book.  I was surprised to see so many references to current events -- events that children most likely will not understand.  Those remarks are made for the adults who will be reading to their children.  In an election year, this is an important book to help children understand the importance of living within our democracy.  But there is another lesson, too: Duck kept getting tired of the position he was in, going from being a worker, to someone in charge, to governor, and then president.  In the end, the Duck realizes that he just wants to go back to what he was doing.  So the grass isn't truly greener on the other side.  He goes back to what he was doing.  Isn't that something we all can learn from?<br />Michael	2004-03-08
US	50825175	R16LGLQ8NIRLJD	0743255755	212319343	Had Enough?: A Handbook for Fighting Back	Books	3	5	31	N	N	There is only one interesting idea in this book	When we think of quality literature, what comes to mind?  Usually the book elevates the reader by bringing new ideas to mind -- and creates an atmosphere where new ideas can be reached.  Most of Carville's book regurgitates the garden-variety criticisms of President Bush -- he caters to the rich, he isn't spending enough on X or Y program, Bush is out of touch, Democrats are stronger candidate, etcetera, etcetera.  The language, full of obscenities and middle-school talk, seems to come from the Michael Moore School of Literature.  It is unfortunate that someone who professes to cater to Democratic interests would harm his own party by showing that the party stands for nothing other than complaints.<br />Yet there was one idea that seemed to make a little sense, although it should be applied to Social Security reform.  Mr. Carville apparently believes that it is okay to invest newborn baby's $3,000 of government-given assets into a conservative allocation of funds, which would result in a fairly hefty amount by the time it reaches a certain age.  This sounds nice Mr. Carville, but what about Social Security, an existing program.  Shouldn't we allow individual workers the opportunity to invest too?<br />Michael	2004-03-08
US	50825175	R22X5TYKYDQGM2	0486275485	359483598	Medea (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	2	9	N	Y	Euripides Play is a Masterpiece!	Euripides play &quot;Medea&quot; is a timeless reminder that certain human characteristics are universal in nature.  Medea's readers will notice that, even despite they live 2,000 years after this play was written, the same types of disputes between individuals occur.  Men still cheat on women, and women, just as then, had strong emotional displeasure with such behavior.  What Euripides could never imagine is that this is an excellent story about evolutionary psychology.  This story does not justify such behavior, and, in fact, shows that the consequences can be deadly.<br />We see today that the story of Medea is on every single day in our living rooms!  Yes--every soap opera is about women who have been hurt by a man, while that man, because of biological instincts that encourage him to look for a variety of women--will search near and far for another female who will accept him.  What most stories do not explain, however (and especially not in that time era) is that women do feel immense pain from this, mostly emotional.  Medea was able to use that emotional anger she had -- and use it to cause physical and emotional pain on her philandering husband.  The only question is, did she need to kill her children to make that point?  That remains to be seen.<br />Michael Gordon	2004-03-07
US	50825175	R1JJX7LJH9HJ9	0618022813	982896425	College Accounting 1 Through 14, 7th Edition	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Very helpful	I used this book in a class at Pasadena City College and it was quite helpful.  I received an A in the course.  I recommend that students who use this book look up the definition of the words since it is very helpful on the quizes and tests.  To professors -- this book is sometimes ambiguous on some concepts and could do a better job at it, but overall it is a good textbook to use.	2004-02-25
US	50825175	R2QTQ6U88VPJPP	0446532231	628954405	Dude, Where's My Country?	Books	1	8	21	N	N	This is a lousy book and it must have taken 10 days to write	First, a word of praise for Mr. Moore.  I do not agree much with Michael Moore, but at least he is willing to state unapologetically that he is a liberal.  Conservatives ought to read Mr. Moore's book, not as an act of conversion, but rather because most elected liberal officials in America actually agree with Mr. Moore's contentions.  Among one of Mr. Moore's contention is that America ought not to defend itself against terrorism.  Lacking the nuances that many radical professors have (used to intentionally distort their true motives), Mr. Moore flatly offers his advice on how to deal with terrorism: \\"People in most other countries have been living with acts of terrorism for years, some for decades.\\"  So what does he say is the correct approach: \\"They [the world community] learned to live with it.\\"  Well.<br />Far be it for any American to accept this premise, but in reality most elected Democrats, in their heart of hearts, agrees with Michael Moore on this conclusion.  Mr. Moore is able to openly state his views because he is not an elected official, but it would be welcome to hear Mr. Kerry repeat Mr. Moore's rantings and accept the fact that he, too, would, just like Mr. Clinton, ignore terrorism and act as though it did not exist.<br />The prose Mr. Moore uses to argue his points can be described as shallow and aimed at the lowest common demoninator.  Yet, with perhaps a bit of irony, Mr. Moore claims that Republicans and conservatives are not only mean and nasty, but that they too are rather \\"dumb.\\"  Nevermind that Mr. Moore used very strong lashes of profanity in this book, which was usually inappropriate in the context to which he was discussing.  When one must use a profanity to demonstrate their level of passion, the general conclusion is that they have a relatively small number of words to grasp with to argue with their opponents.<br />I am actually quite surprised of the success of this book.  For instance, nothing in this book is new.  Not even the prose.  It can be summarized as:  \\"Bush should be defeated, taxes should be raised to pay for socialism in America, and no one should think that they can become rich like me because a few elites have ruled the world.\\"<br />Nothing Mr. Moore said is true, however.  Mr. Moore does not back up any of his claims with substantive answers or researched facts, as Ann Coulter does in her books.  Many people say the two are similar when in fact that is just not the case.  They are both very different in how they write; for instance, Ms. Coulter actually is rather funny because she does not have to use profanity to get her point across, and she tends to use different types of linguistic mannerisms to get her point across.  Mr. Moore, on contrast, writes as though he is speaking to you in a rowdy bar with no tolerance for dissent or a careful analysis of the facts.  Shame on Mr. Moore.<br />To just contradict a few of Mr. Moore's claims:  he says that stock market is not a place to invest for people who are middle-class.  Wrong.  If they are saving for anything long-term, there are plenty of index-funds to invest in that allow one to generate real, actual returns over the long run.  Of course, such a strategy would result in people becoming richer and thus not believing Mr. Moore's rantings, which is perhaps the point.<br />Second, the rich already pay a disproportionate amount of their income in taxes, in contradiction to Mr. Moore's claims (but again, with no actual factual basis in his ideas).<br />Third, socialized medicine does not work anywhere because it results in rationing of medicine, which actually harms not only the economy but increases pains on the health care system.  I do not think other countries are laughing at us for not adopting socialized medicine; if that were the case, why then, are so many Candians coming to America to use our private-health care system.<br />Fourth, America is not a \\"liberal\\" nation.  Mr. Moore cites data that I have never seen replicatedanywhere -- including data on vast support for gun control and high taxes.  If this had been news, it would have been reported.<br />That is all.  I am rather shocked that this book is still popular.  It has no original thought and it looked as though it must have taken 10 days to write.<br />Michael Gordoneplicated anywhere -- including data on vast support for gun control and high taxes.  If this had been news, it would have been reported.  <br />That is all.  I am rather shocked that this book is still popular.  It has no original thought and it looked as though it must have taken 10 days to write.<br />Michael Gordon	2004-02-25
US	50825175	R2W8VGWPWZX7WH	1559720328	529378337	What Does Joan Say?: My Seven Years As White House Astrologer to Nancy and Ronald Reagan	Books	3	7	12	N	N	Rather Dull and too much Focus on Astrology	This book is interesting for one reason, and one reason alone: Joan Quigley, as Mrs. Reagan's personal astrologist, was able to influence world events.  At least, that's what appears to be the case if one believes Ms. Quigley's account. However, considering how exciting this book could have been, it is actually rather dull.  There is a lot of talk about astrological signs and symbols that the average reader has no chance of understanding.<br />I do not believe in astrology.  The most interesting part about Ms. Quigley's contention that astrology is a respectable field--just like any scientific endeavor.  If that is true, why is Ms. Quigley free to publish her private accounts with Mrs. Reagan?  If astrology is a respectable field, shouldn't there be limits to how much information you can reveal about private information with another person?	2004-02-17
US	50825175	R18SGEFV08EUK	0761501657	89555824	FDR's Folly: How Roosevelt and His New Deal Prolonged the Great Depression	Books	5	107	173	N	N	FDR Did Not Know Anything About Economics	Academia has spent a lot of time and energy trying to revise the actual performance of FDR's New Deal risky scheme.  Liberals tend to elevate those who have not succeeded.  Witness the glorification of Jimmy Carter who presided over a terrible period in our nation's history, both foreign and domestic.  Now, at last, a book that showcases FDR's policies as the myth that they were.<br />This book demonstrates that FDR knew very little, if anything, about macroeconomic principles that even a first-year sophomore would know.  For instance, FDR created a monster-sized bureacracy we all know as Social Security.  But as this book demonstrates, there was no need to create a one-size-fits-all bureacracy when many volunteer, profit-oriented, and therefore, private companies were available to do the same thing.  Individuals could, of course, buy disability insurance on their own.  But that would stop FDR from buying votes.<br />FDR also had totaltarian impulses.  He distrusted the private sector and lambasted monopolies, even though he was creating governmental, and therefore, oppressive monopolies that would be impossible to overturn.  (For instance, Social Security and the Tennessee Valley Authority are still with us 70 years later).  He increased taxes dramatically, and yet he was upset with private business owners for not hiring more workers.  It is not surprising: simple economics would say in that oppressive environment investors and businessmen would create a cost-benefit analysis to consider whether it would be wortwhhile to risk principle to earn further profits.  If you hear constant criticism of the private enterprise system, increased calls for tax hikes, and oppressive regulations, you would have no choice but to slow down business or quit, completely.  Certainly expanding one's business would be out of the question.  Yet academics today--who truly are unable to imagine themselves in a cost-benefit analysis business world--still continue to triumph FDR as some sort of political genius.<br />He isn't.  And it's time we think of him as the economic crackpot that he truly was.<br />Michael Gordonort of political genius.<br />He isn't.  And it's time we think of him as the economic crackpot that he truly was.<br />Michael Gordon	2004-02-12
US	50825175	R1RSIJ1LLIMHK2	0895261294	206337612	Legacy: Paying the Price for the Clinton Years	Books	5	8	15	N	N	A Failed Legacy	After eight years in the White House, what is the Clinton legacy?<br />Mr. Clinton would continously use bold rhetoric--regardless of the topic--yet his actions were always cold, calculated, designed to minimize his political problems.  Instead of fighting terrorism, Clinton was a mini-president--focused on popular but trivial issues for a modern president: school uniforms, the V-chip, etcetera.  His character prevented him from taking stronger steps to protect America, yet the man always would apologize -- to America's enemies, including Iran, for what America stood for.<br />He could not even attack Iraq without questions about his character.  When Clinton bombed Iraq, Republicans questioned the timing, and even left-wing radicals protested his actions, wondering if the bombings were tied into his tryst with Monica.  One wonders why America ever elected a man of such ill repute.  Perhaps it has to do with the 1990s -- a feel-good era with little or no substance, and thus, Clinton best embodied the time.  Yet one wonders what greatness Clinton may have achieved if he ever was bold and actually put the country ahead of himself.  We will never know the answer to that, because Clinton still has not put others, or the country, above his own immediate self-interests.<br />If anything, this book serves as proof that character matters.  If you understand that person's character, you will know what they will be like in other situations that neither the public nor the politician is able to imagine.  During campaigns, politicians will talk theoretically about their ideas and also provide some specifics on what they think about certain policies.  But unexpected things always happen.  What then?  If you know the candidate's character, you can know with a certain level of certainty what they are likely to do.  Too bad we didn't take that into consideration in 1992.<br />Michael Gordon	2004-01-17
US	50825175	RA25OZY0EGS9D	0786883561	517056475	Pour Your Heart Into It: How Starbucks Built a Company One Cup at a Time	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Nice Conversational Tone and Some Surprises	This is an excellent book about an entrepreneur who understands the business world.  First, Starbucks understands the &quot;personal touch&quot;--from its name, to its unique coffee brand names (Frapuccino, for instance, whose origins are discussed in detail in the book), to the style of the stores, to its pricing system, and even understands its customers.  Starbucks realizes that its typical client is upscale, affluent, college-educated, left-of-center politically (and thus the focus on &quot;fair trade,&quot; and all the environmental goals they set out to enforce as a company).<br />There were things I did not know before I read this book.  For instance, the amount of training each barista receives -- enough training to discuss the various coffees in great detail.  In fact, because Starbucks trains its employees to such a large extent that it is fearful of allowing any franchisers to run Starbucks because then they would not be assured of the quality control of the company.  That is certainly debatable, of course.<br />Starbucks provides its workers with incredible benefits, as we all know, but I didn't know how strong those benefits were.  On top of your sallary, you receive 14% in stock options (which, in most companies, are reserved for higher-level managers and executives), and health insurance, even for part-timers.  Well, looks like the high prices for the coffee go someplace!<br />Starbucks is not Wal-Mart, however.  Coffee competitors need not fear Starbucks, Schultz says, because, after all, he charges more than his competitors do.<br />One irritating part of the book is that he refers to his coffee as gourmet or exceptional at least 20 times, which can be a bit tiring.  Yes, I understand the point!  Your coffee is good.  Point headed. ; )<br />In any case, this book was fairly well-written and had a conversational tone to it.<br />Michael Gordon	2004-01-10
US	50825175	R1CG4QB33S60Q4	0671790234	494868974	A Pocket History of the United States	Books	3	11	24	N	N	Political Bias Included	This pocketbook of American history starts off with a refreshing analysis of history: uplifting, optimistic, forward-looking, balanced in its approach, and critical when such attention is due.  However, the authors, who are attempting to write a mainstream history of the United States, often times showcased their left-of-center bias.<br />FDR's socialistic policies were praised without much meaningful criticism.  Instead, they give the impression that these governmental programs were absolutely essential, without any critical look at the New Deal's great failure--namely, in that it failed to lower unemployment (read FDR's Folly, a recent book, for more information on this issue).  So consumed with love for liberalism they were unable to focus on how FDR actually increased unemployment by attacking large corporations and successful banks.<br />The authors do not appear to understand modern Milton Friedman economics, blindly believing that tax cuts create deficits, and thus their harsh criticsm of Reagan, even though it was Democrats who created the deficit through lavish social spending.  In fact, the most successful presidents in modern history--all Republicans--Eisenhower, Reagan, and Bush I, were treated as though they were just wasting historical time.  Their accomplishments were not given the treatment that they deserve.<br />The authors also believed that the government ought to spend more money on &quot;public&quot; needs--essentially, taking money away from the public to hand over to elites to spend.  This is a gross distortion of what is construed as the &quot;public interest&quot; and it is unfortunate that such commentary was included in a mainstream history book.<br />Although they painted a very bright picture of America in a historical perspective, far better than today's Democrats are willing to confer on our nation, it still lacked the objective analysis I was hoping for in a history book.<br />Michael Gordon	2003-12-31
US	50825175	R3I636SGI5JFQA	0141439564	365726027	Great Expectations (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Exceptional Tale from an Exceptional Writer	&quot;Great Expectations&quot; is Charles Dickens classic novels that portrays the story of Pip, born into a destitute and poor family, with little hope for a bright future.  We would expect someone born into his social class to remain in this position forever, without much hope for improvements.  However, Pip surprises us when he has a chance encounter with Miss Havisham, an old, grumpy, widow.  She's obviously delirous, upset at men who have crossed her, and does take out some of her anger at poor Pip.  But yet Pip is lucky behind his wildest dreams, for he is about to meet the beautiful Estella, and while this may appear normal, it is definitely not.  And this is what makes &quot;Great Expectations&quot; a classic: the book is about Cinderella from reverse: it is the man, in this particular instance, who moves from working-class peasant to meeting an upper-class elegant lady who is beautiful beyong Pip's dreams.  <br />It is an aspiring tale in that it tells the reader that they, too, may be able to have widespread class mobility.  They are not stuck in their present circumstances and may indeed exceed their own expectations.<br />-- Michael Gordon<BR>Los Angeles	2003-11-28
US	50825175	R3AJNWO54CLYV	1400050308	820650568	Treason: Liberal Treachery from the Cold War to the War on Terrorism	Books	5	7	17	N	N	Well-Researched, Accurate, and Unrefutable	Ann Coulter has written yet another well-researched, accurate, and unrefutable account of today's and the past's liberals.  Ann Coulter is very willing to engange the reader in an accurate debate regarding how liberals have acted in past administrations, from FDR to the Bush administration's war against terror.<br />What is quite surprising is that this book is considered controversial.  Rather than debating the issues presented in the book, many liberal pundits were quick to make stereotypical remarks about Ann Coulter's hair color than they were about making comments about her arguments.<br />For instance, considering the numerous communist sympathizers in past Democratic administrations, you would think Ann Coulter's commentary would at least allow for an admission of fault.  If anything, Ann Coulter's dialogue should be seen as a way of transforming the liberals and the Democratic Party.  Rather than being a party that hates American values, it should be one that embodies them and tries to live up to them.  Yet, our current Democratic Party, as Ann Coulter mentions, allows liberal extremists such as Rep. Dennis Kucinich, Rep. Maxime Waters, Rep. Diane Watson, Sen. Ted Kennedy, Sen. Hillary Clinton to run the party.  Yet, if liberals were wise, they would listen to Ann Coulter's remarks and made policy changes so that they would be rooting for America's side rather than those of our enemies, including France.<br />Today Ann Coulter's remarks are just as accurate as when she wrote about the communists.  Today, the Left is known for obstructing the war against terror, complaining about every minute detail that does not go their way, and criticizing the war against Iraq.  And the Democratic Party's nominee, at the present time, appears to be Howard Dean from the ultraliberal state of Vermont.  This is a disaster, and any Democrat intending to save their party ought to listen to Ann Coulter rather than belittle her for her common sense.<br />Michael Gordon<br />Los Angeless Angeles	2003-11-28
US	50825175	R1HZB1Y94PFEUL	0895261138	185379167	High Crimes and Misdemeanors: The Case Against Bill Clinton	Books	5	15	22	N	N	Convincing Case against President Clinton	As Ann Coulter's first book provides a stunning indictment of former President Clinton.  As Ann Coulter explains, President Clinton enganged in many impeachable actions, including abuse of the IRS to target legitimate political opposition to his policies; the attempt to create false statements regarding career federal Democrats--those in the Travel Office--simply to stash Clinton croonies in those positions; and for lying--perjoring himself--in a court of law regarding his sexual escapades.<br />Ann Coulter pushes aside the common myth that only certain behaviors were concered impeachable.  With many citations, Coulter provides many examples of what the Framer's were thinking when they crafted the \\"high crimes and misdemeanors\\" clause within the Constitution relating to impeachment.  The Founders actually believed any misconduct was subject to impeachment.  Even if subordinates--not the president--are responsible for certain behavior, the president is still responsible.  Why?  Well, the main reason is that someone must be held accountable for corruption.  Also, if a subordinate is corrupt, it likely is due to the corrupting influence of the commander.  If the person in charge is corrupt, as Clinton was, then those who are below him (no pun intended) are also likely to be corrupt.<br />I wonder why liberals are so upset with Ann Coulter's remarks considering that all of them are true.  Not a single liberal has yet to disprove a single Ann Coulter statement.  All they do is question her motives and her character.  They also think making childish statements regarding her hair color is enough to diminish her character.  But it isn't.  Ann Coulter's statements are accurate and are clearly documented.  If they were not accurate, a liberal would have boldly explained how she is wrong.  That has yet to happen.<br />Michael Gordon<br />Los Angeles	2003-11-28
US	50825175	R2J25CBTFR7OZ4	0767905385	262010179	Catch Me If You Can: The True Story of a Real Fake	Books	5	3	8	N	N	Frank W. Abagnale: One Captivating Story From Page One!	When you start reading Frank W. Abagnale's thrilling autobiography, it is hard to believe the events actually happened.  But indeed they did.  Typically, an autobiography will contain many slow narratives that are rather dull.<br />Abagnale is anything but dull.  Born with an IQ clearly higher than the average man, he always was focused on getting around the rules--first, with his dad's credit card.  It is clear that the beginning stages of his life of crime started when he was able to successfully get away with small infractions such as these.  Later, Abagnale would resort to check fraud, and due to the lax restrictions on checks, get away with it.  An ample lesson to banks and security experts: always try to think of every possible scenario because someone will exploit the situation.<br />The fact that he was able to get onto airlines, without paying, and sit in the cockpit is a sign that there have been many loopholes in our national airline security for quite some time.  Now, Abagnale is no terrorist, but as the book explains, this still does not excuse the airlines for allowing mistakes of this sort to go through.  It shows the incompetence of our bureacracies and that little has been done since this book has come off the press.<br />Even more ironic, and perhaps most damning to professors in our \\"higher learning\\" institutions, is that he was able to be a professor and gain wide recognition from the students.  This is an indication that our professors really don't have any special expertise and merely read and paraprase what they are told.  This is a damaging book to all those in authority--it a sign that one single individual, with a mission, is able to exploit the weakneseses out of our collective incompetence and stupidity.  Yet, of course there is a consequence for the individual who engangse in these acts.<br />The French apparently have lousy prison systems, a surprise considering their typical weak image.  Perhaps that is just hypocritical of our \\"friends\\" the French.  But, I knew that Sweden's prison system had to be pretty much like a hotel.  Look at the country: considering that Sweden is one large welfare state, it made sense that it would extend to the prison suite, too.<br />There was a lot of thought placed into this book.  When reading it, you can almost feel the FBI agents running to finally catch Abagnale. . . and when they do, it's quite ironic how they let him get away--yet again.<br />I am glad, however, that Abagnale is a productive member of our society and is providing security information to private companies and the federal government.  It takes a person who had lived such a life to help us solve today's incredible crimes.<br />Michael Gordonfriends\\" the French.  But, I knew that Sweden's prison system had to be pretty much like a hotel.  Look at the country: considering that Sweden is one large welfare state, it made sense that it would extend to the prison suite, too.  <br />There was a lot of thought placed into this book.  When reading it, you can almost feel the FBI agents running to finally catch Abagnale. . . and when they do, it's quite ironic how they let him get away--yet again.  <br />I am glad, however, that Abagnale is a productive member of our society and is providing security information to private companies and the federal government.  It takes a person who had lived such a life to help us solve today's incredible crimes.<br />Michael Gordon	2003-11-26
US	50825175	R32YE0JZPDOX40	0375421874	364727378	The Minority Report	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Give up Freedom for Safety?  Clearly, the answer is no.	There is an incredible amount of insight that went into this short story.  Everyone likes the idea of fighting crime: politicians get re-elected fighting it; police receive praise for attacking it at every nook and corner; citizens feel safer when, as a society, we are defeating it.<br />Given this context, what would happen if a politician were to endorse the idea of locking up criminals before they engange in their criminal acts?  It sounds good: after all, aren't they likely to engange in the act if they are locked up?<br />Forget the issue as to whether such acts are constitutional (they clearly they are not), the question is, is it good policy?  Dick points to the idea that it clearly isn't, and that while it may seem like a good idea to completely eradicate crime, the practice of doing so would clearly create far more harm than good.<br />For instance, if we label someone as extremely likely to engange in the act and arrest them before they committ it, we are saying that people essentially have no free-will and we eliminate the possibility that they may change their thinking before they engange in the behavior.  What we would be doing is, in a sense, locking people up for poor thoughts--no--dangerous thoughts.<br /> This is an important lesson for all those closet utopians who believe that an intellectual can come up with an idea and cure all of society's ills.  This book clearly errs in being skeptical of those in power who would sacrifice our freedom in the name of temporary security.  As Benjamin Franklin once said, \\"Those who would sacrifice a little freedom for temporal safety deserve neither to be safe or free.\\"<br />Michael Gordon	2003-11-25
US	50825175	R36QJPM79B4J0Y	0316735612	33880633	Secrets of the Tomb: Skull and Bones, the Ivy League, and the Hidden Paths of Power	Books	5	5	13	N	N	The Mystery is Over	Alaxandra Robbins uncovers the mystery of the hush-hush world of the world's most elite secret society, Skull and Bones of Yale.  What other researchers and reporters were unable to uncover, Robbins has.  Robbins is a Yale graduate, former member of a secret society (although she does not mention which), and she uncovers the history, rituals, networks, and current events that are taking place due to Skull and Bones.<br />The rituals of Skull and Bones are an essential ritual that keeps the society going.  After all, it is the mystery that keeps non-members intrigued, and it serves as a perk to those who are &quot;inside&quot; the society.  Although many of the rituals may appear silly, the purpose is to create a distinctive &quot;inside&quot; and &quot;outside&quot; dimension to the club.  If you consider that the alternative of Skull and Bones was to be an open club which allowed members to reveal all that happened--including silly rituals--people would obviously not find much interset in Skulls.  That's why, while I do find Robbins book quite enjoyable, I wonder if it may have a negative impact on the secret society, especially because anytime sunlight shines onto this society it diminishes its mysterious angle, eliminating most of the conspiracy theories that are quite fascinating to ponder.<br />There are parts in this book which I did not appreciate too much.  Robbins gives the impression that President Bush became president exclusively because of his connection to Skull and Bones.  While this may or may not be true, I feel as though she continously focused on the issue of one's grades in college and questioned, continously, why someone with low grades in college can become president.  But the truth is: grades, in general, say little about what one's potential is in other areas of life.  Grades are just one measure of ability, intelligence, personality, etcetera.<br />The society does not appear all that glamorous on the inside.  Again, the picture points to a society that tries to gain attention by reserving certain quarters exclusively for its members, thus raising expectations as to what goes on inside the tomb. Yet very little of anything goes on in there that is worth noting.  It is not that surprising.  Those who tend to have secrets for the sake of holding secrets tend to have very little indeed behind their backs.<br />Michaelo a society that tries to gain attention by reserving certain quarters exclusively for its members, thus raising expectations as to what goes on inside the tomb. Yet very little of anything goes on in there that is worth noting.  It is not that surprising.  Those who tend to have secrets for the sake of holding secrets tend to have very little indeed behind their backs. <br />Michael	2003-11-21
US	50825175	R308NNJ6ZHXQCE	0159003237	25032494	The Eight Secrets Of Top Exam Performance In Law School: An Easy-To-Use, Step-by-Step Program for Achieving Great Grades!	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Helpful But Certainly Could Have Been Better	Charles H. Whitebread's short treatise on how to achieve high grades in law school exams is a bit ambiguous in many instances and does not provide concrete examples of how one might actually outline through the IRAC (issues, rule, analysis, conclusion) method.  Yes, he does talk about how one might start writing, but it would have been helpful if he had an actual outline of a real law school exam.  If he had done so, I am sure this book would have been much more useful to first year law students who do not have the benefit of knowing what to expect.<br />However, many of his tips are important: for instance: (1) do not start writing the moment you are able to; instead, outline your case, which may take twenty minutes, and spend the next fourty minutes out of your hour writing in a clear, organized manner.  The person who just starts writing without organization will get a poorer grade.  (2) He says never to explain why you cannot finish on your test.  Some professors won't know you were not able to finish unless you said so.  Plus, you get no points for admitting your error, so why bother?  (3) As long as you stick to the main points in the course, and don't focus on minute details, you probably will get an A or a B.  Sounds good to me.<br />Michael Gordon	2003-11-16
US	50825175	RRT5G0DX28SKJ	1929154054	606323064	Words That Make a Difference: And How to Use Them in a Masterly Way	Books	4	42	45	N	N	Excellent Way to Develop your Vocabulary!	From &quot;conterminous&quot; (having a common boundary) to yahoo, this book provides a long list of interesting words with an appropriate context in how to use them.  The book lists the word, the definition, and then a short excerpt from the New York Times.  The reason the author selects these items from the New York Times is to give readers a feel for how these words are used in their appropriate context.  And while some of us may loathe the times for its political bias, most would agree that there is an elegance to the paper that makes it interesting.<br />Thus, I highly recommend this book to SAT, GRE, word lovers, and general readers.<br />Michael Gordon	2003-11-14
US	50825175	R2CZDRO3APNO8O	031423814X	993639102	Contracts in a Nutshell (Nutshell Series,)	Books	5	5	18	N	N	Authorative And Complete	As an applicant to several law schools, I wanted to know what I would be involved with when I do start my first year.  This book provides a great deal of authorative information regarding common and federal law's method of adjudicating contracts.  While many students in law school consider contract law boring, this certainly should not be the case.<br />Contracts impose responsibities that we must live up to.  It is a cornerstone of Western civilization--that laws and contracts do mean something.  This book provides a great deal of insight into how contracts work, but one should probably read this book only if they have the intention of going to law school or already are attending.<br />Michael Gordon	2003-11-12
US	50825175	R1YSW7EMHOHION	0316181021	79705559	The Abuse Excuse: And Other Cop-outs, Sob Stories, and Evasions of Responsibility	Books	2	12	15	N	N	Dershowitz's Book is Insipid And Dull	For a man as educated and intelligent as Mr. Dershowitz, this was a surprisingly uninteresting and dull account of a very important issue.  While I agree with Dershowitz's main tent -- our society has become less responsible in many ways, and that our law is a reflection of that -- his essays were, to put it mildly, insipid and boring.  I realize that the mediums that he choose to broadcast his message -- newspapers -- constrain his ability to express his sentiments in all the proper nuance.  (For instance, George Will, a respected columnist, writes for general audiences but never hesitates to express his comments in the language such comments deserve).<br />Also, after you have read one single essay from Mr. Dershowitz, there is absolutely no reason to read another one.  Each essay talks about the same subject in almost the same fashion: that the abrogation of responsibility will ultimately result in the end of the rule of law (which requires that we be responsible for our actions) and democracy (which posits that elected officials are ultimately responsible for their actions).  I would encourage careful readers to instead look at James Q. Wilson's &quot;Moral Judgment: Does the Abuse Excuse Threaten our Legal System.&quot;  Wilson's book goes into far more depth on this issue, offering theoretical and practical support for his arguments.  Plus, Wilson is far more interesting. : )<br />Michael Gordon<br />Los Angeles	2003-11-07
US	50825175	R38SBVD8A0VNC6	0812093488	323186701	How to Prepare for the Lsat: Law School Admission Test (8th ed)	Books	1	20	20	N	N	Don't buy it!	This is a highly poor edition to study for the LSAT.  One of the main reasons has to do with the fact that, unlike the real LSAT, which has rigorous controls to ensure that 1) test questions are quite similar to past tests; 2) that there is no ambiguous language that would confuse or create potentially two accurate answers . . . but this book has no such protections to guarantee the accuracy or quality of the test questions.<br />Instead, I would highly recommend the LSAT takers purchase a book from the Law School Admission Council, which sells actual past LSAT exams.<br />What we seek to do is earn high scores on the actual LSAT test; we really do not care how Barron's will rate us.  So we must take a test that is as close to a real LSAT test as humanly possible.  Simply put, this book fails that test.<br />-- Michael Gordon<br />Los Angeles	2003-11-05
US	50825175	RP3CNEAZ6MVYS	0465047335	125580175	Moral Judgment: Does the Abuse Excuse Threaten Our Legal System?	Books	5	4	4	N	N	&quot;Social Science is to Explain; Courts are to Judge.&quot;	James Q. Wilson presents, yet again, a very interesting social science treatire on our current dillema in jurisprudence.  It is important to note that Wilson is a neoconservative, and by that I mean he believes the state can cultivate certain attitudes, mores, beliefs, and behaviors in the population through a series of incentives that will guide the behavior of particular individuals.  Thus, one of the most important things for a state is to provide incentives -- a clear, moral and legal code that will influence the behavior of the general population.  Wilson argues, and to which I agree, that when the law is unpredictable, and the chance of escaping the laws' penalties are reduced or absent, crime will increased. This became true in Britain.<br />Now, to the larger point brought about in Wilson's book: social science is to explain; the law is to judge.  The problem, Wilson argues, is that recently we have blended the two.  While the general population wants us to clamp down on criminals, juries are providing quite leniant sentences.  How is that possible?  Rather than blame the juries, Wilson explains how this is possible.<br />The main reason is that our court system has moved away, although slowly, from an objective standard of law -- one in which the question is whether the defendent did (or did not) committ the crime, to one where we analyze the reasons, motivations, thoughts, ideologies present in the person who committed the law.  By doing this, we encourage juries to be far more leniant--because instead of their judging the question: did he do it or not, they are trying to analyze all the information based on their own knowledge and &quot;expert&quot; testimony, and thus they rationalize lesser sentences based on their own prejudices.  Thus, they substitute the objective law that actually exists for their own feelings.  This may be well and good in the short term, Mr. Wilson argues, but what happens when the precedent for these kinds of decissions develops and we get verdicts like the first Menendez brothers trial, in which the jury was deadlocked, even though it was clear that both brothers had killed their parents in their sleep and were clearly not threatened at the time.  What happens is right.  Anyone who fails to read Mr. Wilson's book misses out on knowing where our current actions are taking us.  And Wilson does provide many informative solutions to this problem, such as having court-appointed experts and judges explaining the facts in the case among other ideas!<br />BTW, I had the privilage of meeting James Q. Wilson, a recent recipient of the Presidential Medal of Freedom, which was awarded to Mr. Wilson by President George W. Bush.<br />-- Michael Gordons and we get verdicts like the first Menendez brothers trial, in which the jury was deadlocked, even though it was clear that both brothers had killed their parents in their sleep and were clearly not threatened at the time.  What happens is right.  Anyone who fails to read Mr. Wilson's book misses out on knowing where our current actions are taking us.  And Wilson does provide many informative solutions to this problem, such as having court-appointed experts and judges explaining the facts in the case among other ideas!<br />BTW, I had the privilage of meeting James Q. Wilson, a recent recipient of the Presidential Medal of Freedom, which was awarded to Mr. Wilson by President George W. Bush.  <br />-- Michael Gordon	2003-11-03
US	50825175	RZAO7FZV220EM	1403961220	142417812	Social Security Under the Gun: What Every Informed Citizen Needs to Know About Pension Reform	Books	2	0	5	N	N	The Book Does not Provide Adequate Answers to the SS Issue	Although the notion of an objective, unbiased source for Social Security information is welcome and even encouraged, Arthur Benavie's &quot;Social Security Under the Gun&quot; does not meet that test.  It is clear from the beginning, despite Mr. Benavie's contention that he does not want to steer the debate in a particular direction, that he has something against the notion of allowing younger workers to devote a portion of their Social Security taxes into personal retirement accounts.<br />There are a lot of frivolous objections that Mr. Benavie makes.  One of the most eggregious objections is the notion that privatizing Social Security would abridge our collective social contract to establish this particular social program.  This is complete nonsense.  No one in their right mind would even know what he is talking about.  Although Social Security has been around for 68 years, people do not have this notion of their being involved in a &quot;social contract&quot; with their other fellow citizens.  I fail to see how privitizing Social Security would result in people feeling more disconnected from one another.<br />In fact, I see just the opposite.  I notice, for instance, that in my own investing, I often think of myself as an integral member of our system, part of the corporate network with fluctuating stock and bond prices.  When working, I really do not see how I am connected to others when I see my wages deducted to pay for Social Security, for instance.  I see a greater connection with stocks and bonds, however.<br />Mr. Benavie appears to believe that Americans ought to be forced to do particular things because, according to his elitist, intellectual view, Americans are either too incompetent or too stupid to save enough for their own retirement.  Such a view is quite condescending and is an insult to the remarkable intelligence of the American public.<br />Mr. Benavie also has a hard time arguing against allowing individual investors to invest in private accounts.  He argues that stock investing is risky.  So?  This does not serve as a good reason to ban citizens from partaking in so-called &quot;risky&quot; behavior, especially if doing so is a way of decreasing the burden on the Social Security system in the years to come.  He fails to mention, of course, that over the long run, for an extended period of time, stocks and bonds will yield much higher growth yields than Social Security.  A younger worker putting money away now, in a mutual fund, for instance, will have a substantial amount of wealth by the time they retire.<br />What is Benavie's answer to Social Security?  More taxes and fewer benefits.  Well, that's a typical liberal elitist -- Democratic answer.  And I'm not going to tolerate it.  Neither should any reader.  This is book is not worth reading because it does not advance any new discussions or ideas on Social Security than those already discussed.  It also does not go into much depth into the history or the workings of Social Security today.<br />And that's the way it is.<br />- Michael Gordon<br />Los Angelesccounts.  He argues that stock investing is risky.  So?  This does not serve as a good reason to ban citizens from partaking in so-called &quot;risky&quot; behavior, especially if doing so is a way of decreasing the burden on the Social Security system in the years to come.  He fails to mention, of course, that over the long run, for an extended period of time, stocks and bonds will yield much higher growth yields than Social Security.  A younger worker putting money away now, in a mutual fund, for instance, will have a substantial amount of wealth by the time they retire.<br />What is Benavie's answer to Social Security?  More taxes and fewer benefits.  Well, that's a typical liberal elitist -- Democratic answer.  And I'm not going to tolerate it.  Neither should any reader.  This is book is not worth reading because it does not advance any new discussions or ideas on Social Security than those already discussed.  It also does not go into much depth into the history or the workings of Social Security today.  <br />And that's the way it is.<br />- Michael Gordon<BR>Los Angeles	2003-11-01
US	50825175	R2DEG1RGSXINZD	0451191137	325409950	Anthem	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Excellent Political &amp; Philosophical Book on FREEDOM	Ayn Rand's book, Anthem, is an incredible book that highlights the benefits of a free, individualistic society, over the Collective (the type that is presented by liberals, the Democratic Party, professors, media types, and other elites who &quot;care&quot; for us).<br />Anthem is a story about an individual who lives in a Collectivist society--the same type that would appear in communist Soviet Union or today's communist Cuba.  I can see that these types of societies are not to be desired.  Instead of thinking in terms of &quot;I,&quot; everyone thinks of themselves in terms of their membership in the larger society, and thus the use of the term &quot;we&quot; to describe their ideas.  Notice that identity politics today is very similar: if you are a member of a certain racial or ethnic group, you are expected to think in 'we' terms; whatever the group thinks should be accepted, regardless of your own best interests.  (That is one reason why, for instance, President Bush's conservative judicial nominees, who are minorities, are being rejected.  It is because their group leaders insist that they think in the 'we' context as opposed to the 'I.'  If you think like an individual, be damned).<br />We see the triumph of the individual at the end of the book.  There is a lot of emotion involved in this book.  For instance, the hero in this novel notes that there was a period of time when people were free, when the Collectivist voices were just starting to take root.  Yet, people were ignoring the concerns the Individualists had, and thus the Collectivists took over.  We see the same thing today: the Collectivists are on a rampage: they think anytime we pay less in taxes it is evil; they insist that the government pay for health care, retirements, loss of wages due to unemployment, loss of wages due to competitive global markets; universal schooling, etcetera.  It is just a way for the Collectivists to get a greater hold on us, yet few are paying any attention.<br />We ignore this book at our peril.  Just like many of the other books warning us of the dangers of Collectivism, we should never forget that what may appear theoretical may just be true.<br />Thankfully, in this book, people will fight to regain an individualistic society.  People will rebel.  Thomas Jefferson said rebellion is good every now and then.  A free society can encourage people to leave the unfree societies--exactly what is happening right now in America.  We attract people from all the unfree corners of the world.  And when our own individual states become unfree -- California, for instance -- there is a rebellion, a move back to an individualistic society.  Ayn Rand was very right, indeed.<br />-- Michael Gordon<br />Los Angelesgnore this book at our peril.  Just like many of the other books warning us of the dangers of Collectivism, we should never forget that what may appear theoretical may just be true.<br />Thankfully, in this book, people will fight to regain an individualistic society.  People will rebel.  Thomas Jefferson said rebellion is good every now and then.  A free society can encourage people to leave the unfree societies--exactly what is happening right now in America.  We attract people from all the unfree corners of the world.  And when our own individual states become unfree -- California, for instance -- there is a rebellion, a move back to an individualistic society.  Ayn Rand was very right, indeed.<br />-- Michael Gordon<BR>Los Angeles	2003-10-28
US	50825175	RW8OCQNJ2AMKD	0679720200	882163178	The Stranger	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Uncontrollable Events Controlling our Destiny	Albert Camus' &quot;The Stranger&quot; has to be one of the most solid pieces of literature in existance today.  I have read this book a second time, and it was even better the second time than the first.  In my second reading, I have a new theory on it: Meursault is detached from the events in his life -- his mother's funeral, his love for his girlfriend, and even his trial, for one reason, and one reason alone: he does not feel as though he is in control of the events around him.  Events control Meursault, not the other way around.<br />There are few certainties in Meursault's life.  He does not like the idea of getting married because that brings about more uncertainty.  He does not like the idea of waiting for his appeal, so what does he do: he creates certainty--he ends the appeals process.<br />The only thing that Meursault can be certain of is the sun rising each day, and perhaps this is one reason why his focus is centered so strongly on the seasons changing and the sun rising each morning.<br />This is absolutely one of the most remarkable books in literature, and I urge everyone to buy at least one copy.<br />How far are we willing to try to control our own destiny?  That's the question this books asks of you.<br />-- Michael Gordon<br />Los Angeles	2003-10-26
US	50825175	R2YTHGX663FW21	0671797484	917361006	Arnold: The Education of a Bodybuilder	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Arnold Schwarzenegger: His Life Philosophy	This book enlightens the reader.  It encourages one to reach to one's potential.  Yes, the book is focused on the issue of body building, but it does not take much effort to think more broadly, and see to it that if you want to reach a specific goal, it is attainable.  Arnold did it.<br />First, if there is one thing you will gain from this book, it is that people who want to achieve incredible things don't let anyone get in their way.  Arnold's parents, doctor, and peers tried to give him the impression that body building was not the wise thing to do.  Arnold had it his way, anyway.  He never let anything get in his way, including a girlfriend he had in Santa Monica.<br />We all can have this drive.  Incredible things happen to those who never lose sight of what they hope to attain.  Having huge dreams is what makes America great.  That is one reason why Arnold Schwarzenegger will become California's governor next month.  An amazing story that should inspire us all.<br />Hopefull Mr. Schwarzenegger will write another book about his life that continues the saga from body building to acting.<br />-- Michael Gordon<br />Los Angeles	2003-10-23
US	50825175	R1V1AN16FGYIET	0440223822	842292252	Outrage: The Five Reasons Why O.J. Simpson Got Away With Murder	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Extremely Insightful Book on the Trial of the Century	Vincent Bugliosi has written one of the most insightful books on not only on the OJ Simpson case, but the issue of the rule of law, our court system, what constitutes effective and competent counsel, outrageous conduct on the part of the defense.<br />Bugliosi first outlines the basic facts of the case: first, OJ is obviously guilty.  His blood is found at the crime scene, in his Bronco, and at his estate.  Nicole and Ron Goldman's blood are also found in all three locations.  OJ created a suicide note, got a mask, and ran away from the cops.  He told the police he &quot;didn't know&quot; why he was bleeding at the night of the murders -- at the exact same time the crime was being committed.  He told Nicole he would kill her one day.  The murder was not a burglary -- because nothing was taken.  And the crime was definitely one of passion -- notice the knife.  All the signs point to Simpson.<br />This book is an extremely useful one for myself because I do intend to be an attorney one day.  Bugliosi provided many very simple tips on how best to argue one's case and to destroy one's opponents arguments.  This is certainly a book I would recommend.  There is no nonsense or hodgepodge in this book.  A+!<br />-- Michael Gordon<br />Los Angeles	2003-10-22
US	50825175	R2C8R60IOP9QMF	0765347415	453542347	Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Based on the Movie with A Little More Insight	I watched Terminator 3 in the movies before I read the book.  It was good to refresh my memory of the movie, because the movie was intense and, the way memory works, you inevitably forget certain important scenes.<br />If you have not seen the movie, I would highly recommend the book.  It describes many of the scenes in great detail.  Also, some events in the movie that are a bit unclear are explained quite well in the book.  For instance, when the T-X reprograms Terminator's memory system, it would seem as though it would be impossible for the Terminator to be on John Conner's side again.  But the book explains that the Terminator re-booted his computer system, and thus was able to have a fresh start.  In the movie, this is not explained at all, and the Terminator just comes back to save John Conner, which appears puzzling since he was, at that point in time, programmed to harm John Conner.<br />The book is very action-focused - with very vivid descriptions of the actions that are occuring.  I am actually quite impressed with the ability to write a book based on a movie of this complexity -- and still make it very readable, exciting, and a fun read.<br />-- Michael Gordon<br />Los Angeles	2003-10-20
US	50825175	R2M9OLUL09S9GS	0316769487	862964341	The Catcher in the Rye	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	I'm the real Holden : )	When I first read \\"Catcher in the Rye,\\" the one thing I noticed was the parallel between Holden and my own life.  I live in Los Angeles, land of many \\"phonies\\"--the same type that Holden appeared to be criticizing.  Holden wants to be a genuine human being, one who can actually be himself.  Instead of playing a role in life, Holden wants to live life.  It is quite unfortunate that the life Holden wants to lead is not really achievable.  We all have roles to play, whether we want to play them or not.  Witness the scene where Holden calls up a prostitute -- and, in Holden's character, he does not play the role he's supposed to lead -- where he enganges in sexual behavior with her.<br />Instead, Holden wants to learn about the prostitute.  He cares for her.  He wants to talk to her.  Discuss things.  Isn't that strange?  Totally out of character.  It is not what one would expect.  That's Holden.<br />Perhaps one of the biggest problem, though, is that people who do not want to be a \\"phony\\" -- those who would prefer to, in Thoreau's words, \\"march to their own drummer,\\" have a difficult time.  Holden doesn't have many friends.  He seems like a drifter.  Doesn't really do well in school.<br />Is this a lesson to be learned?  Are the bums on the street former Holden's, unable to adjust to reality, drifting to find their authenticity somewhere in the world?  It is certainly possible.<br />On the prose:  The prose is wonderful.  Very readable, as many have mentioned.  It's always very inexpensive and I recommend that everyone should have one copy in their book shelf.<br />-- Michael Gordon, from Los Angeles.	2003-10-19
US	50825175	R1V199GXT2H1Y3	0471436399	850743379	The Complete Guide to Buying and Selling Apartment Buildings	Books	5	41	61	N	N	Impressive Information	Steve Berges' book, The Complete Guide to Buying and Selling Apartment Buildings, was very inspiring.  It does not promise that this will be a simple process: indeed, it will take quite some time from the process of deciding that one wants to accumulate large sums of wealth and when they actually engange in the process of purchasing an apartment, fixing it, and selling it.  Berges holds the view that you should focus on buying and re-selling the apartment as a method of accmulating wealth.  This is a good idea.  Before I bought the book, I thought that one could make more money by simply collecting the rent.  Instead, if you put your energy on buying more and more expensive apartments, you can generate higher and higher rents.<br />Since I am a politically active person, I found Berges' 10th chapter very inspiring.  He talks about how many people think you can only become wealthy through stealth tactics--stealing from others, or by inheriting one's wealth.  Berges discounts this view by focusing on how heard work and determination can result in anyone becoming quite wealthy.  Unfortunately, our &quot;tax the rich&quot; politicians--ahem, the Democrats--still believe it is good public policy to steal from those who work the hardest.  It's shameful, and Berges is right to point it out.	2003-10-15
US	50825175	R3DQ3OZS0ZVG51	1893554651	207316076	The Hillary Trap: Looking for Power in All the Wrong Places	Books	4	19	26	N	N	Book is Really About the Failed Views of Elite Liberal Women	Laura Ingraham poses an interesting thesis: Hillary Clinton uses the language designed to &quot;liberate&quot; the masses of women in America, yet her policies are less likely to do so.  For instance, low-class Sen. Hillary Clinton often speaks of a need for a &quot;village&quot; to raise a child, but in doing so, Ingraham points out, this means taxes must be higher, which decreases the independence of women, and places one's child in a stranger's hands--a child-care provider, which is a necessittee considering our high-tax system (reaching a federal income tax maximum of 35% as of this writing, but was 39.6% when Ingraham published her book).<br />Similarly, it is also true with other areas--such as self-defense.  Hillary Clinton believes that women should not be able to defend themselves, and should instead, while being raped or abused, to accept their victimhood or try to call the police by dialing 9-11, which is not practicle considering police officers cannot be everywhere.  Of course, in Hillary's world, this is not a problem since she has Secret Service protection and lives in an upscale neighbhorhood in New York.<br />The prose is not of the highest quality in this book.  It seems that the writer is using the same tone that she would on her radio show, which takes away from the quality of the book.  There is a difference between a spooken and written voice, and that is a major defefiency here.<br />Also, it is important to recognize that while Ingraham is talking about Hillary Clinton, her focus is not necessarily exclusively on her.  She is criticizing elite women--those who subscribe to the views of the National Organization for Women, the university professors, female anchors at major news networks (excluding Fox News), and those who work for liberal think tanks or female Democratic Members of Congress.<br />Overall, it is a good book, although it does lack the quality I have experienced in other conservative books such as Ann Coulter.  It lacks the superb logic, researched material, and ability to seriously call one's political opponents for what they are: usurpers of power.<br />-- Michael Gordonsuperb logic, researched material, and ability to seriously call one's political opponents for what they are: usurpers of power.<br />-- Michael Gordon	2003-10-11
US	50825175	R20UP2172QXWXS	0895261391	468254470	Useful Idiots: How Liberals Got It Wrong in the Cold War and Still Blame America First	Books	5	18	26	N	N	Liberals obviously don't even care about their own nation...	This is a fantastic book to add to one's collection of anti-communist history of America and the revisionism that frequently occurs on the left.  The Left changes history regardless of what the event relates to.  Today, liberals like to say that the fight against the Evil Empire--the Soviet Union--was a bipartisan affair.  This book places that view to rest.<br />Even more interesting, this book gives the impression that liberals are not stupid--that is, they did not take the side of the Soviet Union through a mistake.  For instance, Mona Charen cites the example of Ron Dellums, Democrat of California (from the anti-American Berkeley district), who was a card-carrying socialist and actively tried to help the Soviet Union by helping it in its military aggrandizement and usurpation of power.<br />Liberals were always asking for caution, understanding, more deliberation to slow down the process of stopping the true aggressors--communists all across the world.  The fact that media folks still give legitimacy to individuals such as Fidel Castro of Prison Island Cuba -- and praises them -- is understandable considering the Treason lobby's intense desire to harm America and give up in our quest to fight for freedom everywhere.  The last Democrat president to fight for freedom, says Mona Charen, is John F. Kennedy.  She's right.  Name a liberal today who urges a tough response to terrorism around the world?<br />Instead of this, we see liberals trying to understand the Islamic terrorists--just as they did with the communists of Eastern Europe, North Korea, and Cuba.<br />And the Democrats have the nerve to say they are experts in foreign policy, or that we should trust the security of the United States to them?  Read this book and the answer will be clear to that question.	2003-10-04
US	50825175	R1U8BU3B5GP7NK	0446527556	170610624	What Clients Love: A Field Guide to Growing Your Business	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Another Excellent Book by Mr. Beckwith.	This is another incredible contribution to the literature on marketing of service-oriented companies.  Beckwith provides anecdotal accounts of what marketing techniques work; for instance, he talks about how he has helped to name certain companies that are descriptive, are memorable, and are not full of cliches.  His account of Nike's rise to fame through the use of celebrity characters is also an intriguing account of the need for someone we can trust to help share our services.  Beckwith's main point is that services are not like products.  With services, we have to develop trust and believe in the person.  Beckwith provides the techniques--such as providing some slightly negative, but truthful, information about yourself that will help to gather integrity.  People like someone who has integrity and is believable.<br />Another very important principle of Beckwith's is that when you are selling a service, you are really building a relationship with your clients.  If you appear to be focused on money or work in a truly impersonal basis, the clients will notice.  There is a lot of psychology in this book.  Almost every page is about &quot;feelings&quot; of one sort or another, which is necessary because people do not follow rigid rules of conduct.  Instead, people often make decissions on irrational feelings, which, if one reads Harry Beckwith's book, they will be ready.  And they will deliver exceptional services.<br />-- Michael Gordon	2003-09-25
US	50825175	R1RESBXDCJ1UI9	0446520942	234309172	Selling the Invisible: A Field Guide to Modern Marketing	Books	5	3	3	N	N	These Techniques Work	Harry Beckwith's techniques in Selling the Invisible actually work.  When you are dealing with service-related companies, it can be hard to understand what works and what does not.  After all, services are not like products, Beckwith says, in that they are hard to define, often times you don't even think about the service unless you are confronted with the person providing the service (i.e., your dentist).  Thus, you must make consistant reminders of who you are, and why your service is exceptional.  Beckwith also writes in a way that is likely to allow you to remember what he says.  He has his commentary in bold print, writes in very easy to read prose, and has a final line summarizing what he says in a few words.  This is an excellent book and it should be on the book shelves of any would-be marketer or service-related business operator.  It works in my business, and I work as a telephone psychic!<br />-- Michael Gordon	2003-09-23
US	50825175	R2JANQW52OFD4W	0060987197	303485416	Slouching Towards Gomorrah	Books	5	32	49	N	N	Robert Bork Should be a U.S. Supreme Court Justice	Everything that you have heard about Robert Bork is wrong.  Nominated to the U.S. Supreme Court by Ronald Reagan, Robert Bork has since been seen as the most controversial man in America.  But that label is entirely misleading.  Why is Bork so controversial?  Well, Bork does not believe that the elite, unaccountable institutions in America should dictate its policy and moral code.  That includes the tenured professors, activist rogue judges (somewhat like the 9th Circus Court of Appeals in California that stops a recall campaign mid-way through), to major media executives that transmit obscene and low-brow material through the airwaves.<br />Bork believes these institutions have had a corrupting influence in our society.  We should look at this carefully, because it does appear to be true.  Certainly media executives have to say that programming influences people; after all, why go through the bother of advertising if television has no noticeable influence whatsoever on human behavior.  Is it not the point that television influence others?  Same for university professors: these former campus radicals, now tenured (and thus respectible) elites are able to feed into our students the most anti-American and anti-capitalist rhetoric.  This is a vicious cycle, and while Robert Bork creates a bit of fear by showing what is happening -- independent developments have shown that our youngest generation appears to be changing course.  The youth crowd is far more conservative than their elders; they support lower taxes; have a deep level of support for Reagan and Bush II; and they have volunteered to support the armed forces in liberating two nations.<br />Oh, I almost forgot: what is so controversial about Robert Bork?  Easy: he believes in interpreting the law as it is written.  He does not believe that as an unelected judge that he has a right to determine social policy.<br />-- Michael Gordon	2003-09-19
US	50825175	R257QKCZYYIJ5Q	0156334607	252269413	Free to Choose: A Personal Statement	Books	5	7	10	N	N	If Only this Book Was Adopted by Congress -- In Full	Milton Friedman is a Noble-prize winning economist and recipient of the Presidential Medal of Freedom from President George W. Bush.  Miltion Friedman poses an interesting question: what are the things we are most unsatisfied with as services or products?  Most Americans are very unsatisfied with the post office and schools, for instance.  And there's a reason: the post office is a government-run monopoly, which means there is no incentive for improvements, more effeciency, or even happy customers.  You have to use the service, and as a result, your happiness is irrelevant to the bureacrats, mostly the postal trade union, who just want job security.<br />The same is true for public schools.  Most parents hate their local public school.  Milton Friedman talks about how schools in the beginning of our nation were nearly universal, yet most parents paid for the schooling.  He asks a really good question: why are taxpayers required to spend tax dollars for everyone's education, when it is only about 5-9% of the population that would not be able to afford to educate their child.  Why not ask that most parents pay for their child's education (after all, that will result in market-incentives, such as the desire for competition) and just subsidize the education for children who would not otherwise be able to attend due to the cost.  As an alternative, Friedman endorses vouchers, which will allow parents to dictate which schools will succeed and fail.  Most schools--public included--will have a huge incentive to improve their programs because they will be in competition with other schools.<br />One theory that comes up over and over again with Friedman is the notion of incentives.  If there are no incentives, something will not be done.  Thus, we need to have incentives in education to improve teacher quality.  We need to have a negative income tax to create incentives for the poor to work rather than receive welfare payments.  This is an excellent book for anyone interested in economic policies, those of a libertarian persuasion, and anyone who wants America to be stronger and mightier in economic, political, and social terms.ed in economic policies, those of a libertarian persuasion, and anyone who wants America to be stronger and mightier in economic, political, and social terms.	2003-09-16
US	50825175	R1A3HJRZOX5DVU	0671751506	171253589	The Way Things Ought to Be	Books	5	6	11	N	N	Rush Trusts Americans: Liberals Don't.	Talk radio host Rush Limbaugh, in his book, &quot;The Way Things Ought to Be,&quot; provides general principles that Rush follows.  These principles, he says (and to which I agree) are timeless.  This book is best read as a method of understanding Rush's approach to the issues of the day.  That is, if you listen to his talk radio show, you will see him explain his views in reference to today's events.  However, in this book, you will see him explain and flush out the theoretical underpinnings of his views.  Rush Limbaugh believes in individual liberty of the same type that Milton Friedman (Free to Choose) and Hayek (The Road to Serfdom) agree with.  Rush is pro-markets, limited government, and a strict constitutionalist--all qualities our Founding Fathers agreed with.  Rush is a great patriot and I do hope he writes another book.	2003-09-15
US	50825175	R1ZM58RFSCBKPY	0802139701	248860003	Parliament of Whores: A Lone Humorist Attempts to Explain the Entire U.S. Government	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Funny Book -- Too Bad It's All True!	What is Congress other than a location where greedy, self-righteous, \\"whores\\" come up with arguments to \\"give away\\" stuff to us all year, but have the decency to leave us a bill on April 15th?  In Parliament of Whores, P. J. O'Rourke shows us that our government has, over a period of years, cultivated a society where people no longer take responsibility for their own decission making.  Every small decission, every mistake, no matter how slight, no matter how trivial, is seen as reason for the federal government to become involved.  We are no longer a society where we settle differences between each other.  Now we have to invite a central authority to settle our differences.  This is a sad indictment of our modern life.<br />However, as long as we must put up with the strange policies our government decides to adjudicate (witness California's legislature and governor Gray Davis circa 2003 for a more in-depth view) for us, at least we should have a good laugh.  This book is a good laugh.  Ah, but how I wish most of the things contained in it were not true.<br />Michael	2003-09-15
US	50825175	R2WK0Y2U9LE0KS	0130977632	510014088	Sociology (9th Edition)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Fantastic Textbook: A Rarity in our Modern Era	Since my first introduction to sociology course, I have always been a fan of John Macionis.  Typically, college textbooks are painful to read, filled with mundane facts, awkward prose, and very little visual aid.  Not so with this textbook.  Macionis clearly explains every sociological perspective, gives each side a fair and accurate account (this is very important to me since most professors will often distort information to fit within their ideological framework) of controversial views.  After the class was over, I spent time reading this book during the summer.  I never sold it.  I have even had the ability to use most of the material -- particularly the citations -- for other courses.  Sometimes professors will even be surprised that I can cite information that contradicts the stale information they are continuing to repeat but are contradicted by the more accurate and factual data contained herein.  It's a great book.  Professors: assign this book.  Students: if your professor assigns this book, it will be a fun class!  And layreaders: this is a highly recommended textbook!	2003-09-15
US	50825175	R1ZESIOLH56U3D	0895261405	647115467	Dereliction of Duty: The Eyewitness Account of How President Bill Clinton Compromised America's Long-Term National Security	Books	5	17	26	N	N	Clinton Harmed Our National Security: Here's the Proof	Each president is commander and chief of our armed forces.  Bill Clinton, the &quot;come back&quot; 60s kid, held a rather low view of the military.  In his youth, he said he &quot;loathed the military,&quot; and this book shows it.  In this book you will see how Clinton croonies treated the military rather poorly.  You will learn how when guests were staying with Clinton, they would hand over their belongings for military men to carry, as though they are nothing but low-level hotel workers.  You will see how Clinton lost the nucleur code and yet, did not appear to care much about losing it.  When the question of attacking a foreign nation was up for debate, Clinton was clearly absent, focused instead on charming his way with other elites.  Mr. Patterson documents how repeated attempts were made to get Clinton's attention on the golf course to make a decission -- because military men and women were in harm's way and needed a decission from their president.  But Clinton continued to push these remarks aside, asking that they wait.  And wait they did.  You will learn how low-class his wife, Hillary Clinton, Senator from New York (although she was born in Arkansas), treated the military poorly as well. . . and how uncomfortable people were around here.  This is an excellent book!<br />Michael Gordon	2003-09-15
US	50825175	R235V4DK5953O	0312392508	443944659	Democracy for the Few	Books	2	11	87	N	N	Typical Anti-American, Pro-Socialist Propoganda: Horrible.	Michael Parenti is an ardent leftist radical who looks at human freedom in a highly skeptical way. He deplores capitalism, corporations, is highly skeptical of profits, and consumer's ability to own cars. In effect, Michael Parenti would like to substitute the individual decission making of millions of Americans for a centralized bureacracy that will tell Americans, you cannot own cars, you must take the subway; you cannot own stocks directly, instead you must subsist through government subsidies and the like; you cannot pay for your education; you must instead allow the government to \\"help you.\\" You cannot let your children take over your business; instead, you must give it to the government. Michael Parenti also claims that reporters and the media have painted an inaccurate view of the Soviet Union and Cuba. This book is submitted in college classrooms. It shouldn't. This book is based on inaccurate information, slipshod economic logic, and blind allegiance to government in all forms -- except in its main importance: defense of our nation. You decide.  It is, after all, your choice.  But this is definitely not a mainstream book.<br />-- Michael Gordon	2003-09-15
US	50825175	R3OKNO4DTWVLZ0	0312301790	142366218	Showdown: Confronting Bias, Lies, and the Special Interests that Divide America	Books	5	18	20	N	N	A Blunt Indictment of 50 Years of Liberalism	Larry Elder, a syndicated talk radio host in Los Angeles, has created a strong indictment of 50 years of liberalism that has not had to answer to its critics.  This is one such book.  In this book, he provides moral and intellectual justification for individual liberty and initiative.  Welfare takes away the initiative of both income-earners (by reducing their incentive to earn more due to high-taxes) and reduces the benefeciary of welfare from working (why work if you get money for free).  Elder's arguments are based on common sense and human psychology.  The problem with most of our current political debates, says Elder, is due to the way they are framed.  Politicians make all sorts of promises (today, for instance, we hear of free drugs for seniors) for more spending here and there -- everywhere -- that it is resulting in Americans being far more dependent on other taxpayers for their needs.  At the same time, as the first page notes, we are moving further away from what the purpose of the federal government is: to protect life, liberty, and property.  On September 11, President George W. Bush was involved in education policy, when, in fact, the president should at all times be focused on our national defense.  It is not, Elder says (to which I agree) the job of the federal government to be involved in education policy.  Republicans ought to take note.	2003-09-14
US	50825175	R22WNF8KPIQ4OG	0375507493	318684906	What Should I Do With My Life: The True Story of People Who Answered the Ultimate Question	Books	5	4	6	N	N	This book changed my life.	I'm sure everyone comes to a certain period in their life and they see other people moving along, ostensibly towards their true &quot;goal&quot; in life.  Yet, like me, you wonder--am I going in the right direction?  This book is not for those who want strict guidelines on how to achieve your goal.  It won't provide such insight at all.<br />What this book does is provide you with an understanding of 53 ordinary people who have achieved extraordinary events in their life.  Leaving one job -- such as a tenured professor of chemistry to be an attorney, for example.  This book says that if you wish to make a change, it is possible.  You are not required to stay anywhere if it is not meant for you.  The people described in the book are the type that big name media personalities would say are an exception.  But these individuals are no exception to the rule.  They had an idea and a plan to change the way they were living.  Some of the plans seem surprising--such as a desire to go from being paid a seven-figure income as a CEO, leaving it, and becoming a cop.  To many of us, this seems unfathonable.  But what say you if this is his passion?  This is who the book is talking to -- those of us who feel as though we are selling ourselves short by remaining on a course just because we're comfortable and are a little afraid of adventure.  The book was a joy to read.  He writes in fairly good prose, and I found that I had a hard time putting the book down.	2003-09-12
US	50825175	RHWZFPU5JRP8H	0226493644	411166366	More Guns, Less Crime: Understanding Crime and Gun-Control Laws	Books	5	15	26	N	N	If More Scholars Did Studies like this, Crime Would Decrease	John Lott is an American hero for many reasons.  But in this book, he is a hero for enganging in detailed, and accurate statistical data to prove the Second Amendment is not just a part of the Constitution, but has also proved to be good social policy as well, even in our modern life.  Lott shows how liberalization of gun laws (i.e., allowing more people to carry concealed weapons) has resulted in drops in crime rates, even when we take into consideration other variables.  Lott also shows that those most protected from concealed gun laws are women and minorities--those whom often are the most skeptical towards liberalization of gun laws and elect those who pass laws that are contrary to their constituents' best interests.  If only liberals such as Representative Henry Waxman (D-Beverly Hills), Nancy Pelosi, and gun-grabbers Sen. Ted Tennedy were to read -- and believe this book, and understand its signifiance, perhaps we would have less crime in America.  Until then, don't bet on it, and encourage your representative to repeal restrictive gun laws and let law-abiding citizens to carry concealed weapons.	2003-09-07
US	50825175	R1DTM7RVPTRPQ8	0743244613	660154931	Bush at War	Books	4	2	4	N	N	From a Political Theory Perspective, the Book Dissapoints	By way of disclaimer, I must say that I am an ardent supporter of President Bush, his administration, and most (though, not all) of his policies.<br />With that said, this book provides a clear glimpse of the intricate political decissions President Bush had to make in response to the September 11 terrorists attacks.  It showcases some off-the-cuff comments by the commander and chief, Rumsfield, and Powell.  The typical view that Rumsfield and Cheney are &quot;hawks&quot; while Powell is the &quot;moderate&quot; prevails in the book.  Ms. Rice, the president's National Security Advisor, is brought up in many instances of the book, but rarely does one get any information on what she thinks about the issues at hand.  I did not get a chance to understand how Ms. Rice felt under the difficult time of responsing to our nation's highest challenges.<br />Another problem with the book is that, while it does provide a great deal of information on what was done, and how information was coordinated, it rarely said anything relating to why administration officials felt the way they did.  That is, there was not much discussion on the origins of their political philosophies, which guided their actions and policies.  It would be wise to learn more about what books, magazines, think tanks, and other intellectual might helped bring this talented group of people into making concrete, and difficult, decisions.<br />But, then again, the format of this book was the same as you would find in your national newspaper. And so with it came the limitations...<br />Michael	2003-09-06
US	50825175	R3023OU8H5ARKS	1561709743	192062931	How to Ruin Your Life	Books	5	9	11	N	N	You'll Think of People You Know When Reading the Book	With thousands of books on how to improve one's life, it is refreshing to see one that tells you how to ruin it.  One is bound to see countless examples of ideas on how to ruin's one life that people consistantly engange in (i.e., not saving money, or using drugs.)  While the book has a humorous spin to it, it is important to realize that it is not easy to be a complete failure.  It actually requires work.  When you look at the bums on the street, you can quickly see that they have taken Ben Stein's ideas seriously--not saving money, engang in illegal behavior, not making friends, harming their family, and failing to work.  If you see any of your current behaviors described in this book, it should cause a serious change in one's personality!  After all, we all know how to be a success (we see self-help books all the time), but do we really know the ingredients of failure?  If so, let's at least learn how to avoid them!  Thanks Ben!  I'll do my best not to take your advice.  Ha.	2003-08-26
US	50825175	R39CEWW7BICD3G	0345337662	494921316	Interview with the Vampire	Books	1	7	19	N	N	A Truly Horrible Book	Let it be known that I like some of Anne Rice's other works: I did like The Witching Hour.  However, Interview with a Vampire is written with poor, boring prose.  It is certainly not a page turner, and I would assign it as punishment for high school students who did not come to class on time. The story seems to be random, without any clear organization or purpose.  Often while reading the book I will start to daydream about to other ideas and topics that are unrelated to the book.  The truth is, the book is boring.  The character development is particularly poor.  None of the characters is brought to light in an interesting manner or explained why they exist.  I would certainly never recommend this book.	2003-08-17
US	50825175	R3H84RNY3DUBV	0446524174	712381771	The Invisible Touch: The Four Keys to Modern Marketing	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Common Sense and Great Examples: Overall, a Great Book!	As a small business owner, one of the most important factor in receiving (and keeping) business is marketing.  Beckwith provides a lot of common-sense tools (that are frequently ignored by Fortune 500) companies that can be enormously benefectial--such as refering to a person's first name, and showing passion for one's work, true passion.  Yet many of us forget how important common sense is when we are involved in our business.  Beckwith's main advice is to remember the human touch--that you are dealing with humans.  That means a certain style, a welcoming style, has to be imbedded in all that you do in your business.  A very good book!<br />Michael	2003-08-14
US	50825175	R1FS4A5NY8IDKO	0786868414	511065138	Leadership	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Highly Recommended	After seeing New York City Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani give a speech at the University of California, Los Angeles, going over some of the characteristics a leader holds, I had to buy this book.  One characteristic he focused on (but was not included as much in the book) was the quality of staying positive.  Giuliani states that a leader is someone others will follow.  Let's say, for instance, that you state that things are going to get worse, there is no way to improve things... so follow me.  The crowd was in awe: of course no one would follow such a leader.  One would be an idiot for doing so.  As Giuliani states in the book, however, if a leader has conviction, holds strong principles, and says they have a positive plan so follow me . . . people will listen and follow.<br />There is a lot of psychology imbedded in the mayor's ideas.  Although he's not a psychologist by trade, I'm sure a lot of the experience he has had over the years has allowed him to notice how people act.  This is a very practical book and I'd highly recommend it to a leader of any kind, nonprofit, corporate, whether they are a conservative or liberal: it really makes no difference.<br />A great book, Mr. Mayor of the World!	2003-08-06
US	50825175	R16QTHRB1MQ56Y	0226320618	688914972	The Road to Serfdom: Fiftieth Anniversary Edition	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Signs of Freedom	F.A. Hayek provides articulate a strong argument against the use of centralized state power to satisfy our wants and needs.  In 2003, in a time period when we have elected small-government minded Republicans who wish to experiment by expanding the role of centralized government (i.e., Medicare), it is best to heed Mr. Hayek's warning.  By centralizing power for the elites (who are always in favor of increasing its power; for reference, read any major newspaper's editorial page, academic arguments in journals; elite judges and other holier-than-thou commentators), we cede our control to them.  Rather than &quot;emporing&quot; people to make decissions for themselves, centralized state power limits the available choices we can reasonably make for ourselves.  As such, we have given some of our freedom away.  We ought not make this decission now.  It is quite easy for liberals to say we need governmental intervention in the economy.  But what say you regarding the results, including giving up the power to dictate our own destinies?  Why should we give this freedom to the state, and then beg for the freedom to do what we wish economically?	2003-07-16
US	50825175	R3APCYGPJB74GH	1400046610	957571830	Slander: Liberal Lies About the American Right	Books	5	7	13	N	N	Ann Coulter's Book Shocking to Liberals Because It's True	When a liberal opens Ann Coulter's book, it must be \\"shock and awe.\\"  For all these years, liberals have used the power of the academia and the media to demonize conservatives, but they have done so mainly through emotional arguments, not substantive arguments refuting conservative philosophy.  Here comes Ann Coulter's book.  She carefully documents many of the cases where conservative political thought has been \\"slandered\\" by liberal commentators who are quick to call Republicans \\"dumb\\" -- and that alone is usually the end of the debate.<br />She also makes arguments and comments that are not seen in other conservative books.  Witty and sarcastic, she poses interesting questions such as why liberals are quick to condemn someone as a member of the \\"religious right\\" when such a group does not really exist.  She also further disproves the argument that Falwell and Pat Robertson all think alike or are \\"hard right.\\"  Very interesting commentary you will not find anywhere else.	2003-04-11
US	50825175	R3SLMDH0PF9760	0804714770	718477084	The Sexual Contract	Books	2	4	61	N	N	Sorry, Pateman's prose is horrible	Written in difficult prose, Pateman's message appears to give the impression that women are the victims of the original political theorists.  However, I must say one thing: Why is this book still noteworthy?  I've met Pateman on many occasions, and I think it's important to know about her other (strange) political views.  For instance, she believes in the \\"minimum income,\\" which means that someone will be paid regardless of whether they work or not (that's a great incentive to work--not!); she also appears to believe that women are suffering incredible discrimination in today's workplace, which does not appear to be true.  I'm not sure why she's considered such a great theorist.  Great theorists, in my views, revolutionize how we think about society and promote productive policies that create economic growth, prosperity, optimism.  That is not the case here.  Sorry!	2002-08-29
US	50825175	R2ZDCX9AJYHAPH	0674050444	321212431	At Womens Expense: State Power and the Politics of Fetal Rights	Books	1	1	19	N	N	Just Feminist Psychobabble	Throughout the entire book, Daniels continously and erroneously asserts that women are somehow subjugated by having certain policies that protect their fetus.  Well, boo hoo.  A woman should not have the right to drink alcohol if she is pregnant.  I think she can go for a few months without intoxicating herself and her developing life.  I found it very irritating and quite frustrating.  It was assigned in a feminist college course.	2001-05-13
