US	50827040	RYPJ771W33BZ9	0914863053	640547697	Israelology:  The Missing Link in Systematic Theology	Books	1	56	140	N	N	A HERESY THAT NEVER DIES!	I'm not a heresy hunter, but it surprises me to find someone using the Apostle Paul to advocate the one heresy that Paul spent more time contending against than all others combined. Throughout ISRAEOLOGY, Fruchtenbaum advocates the old heresy that Jewish Christians retain a special place in Christ's kingdom over others. (That was why Gentiles wanted to be circumized or to participate in Jewish religious rites because then they could enter the household of Abraham and have that same higher privilege.)<br /><br />Fruchtenbaum's primary theme is the idea that the land of Israel belongs to Jews -- and eventually only to Christian Jews -- because God has promised it to them as a birthright. He argues throughout that only the SPIRITUAL promises made to Abraham passed on to Christians (eternal life), while the physical promise (of the land) remains a promise conveyed by blood rights to natural Jews.<br /><br />Fruchtenbaum's opinion is hugely destructive to the work of Christ in uniting Jews and Gentiles, and I could argue against it from many scriptures; but I'll use just one from Paul in Ephesians 2:12ff. Paul specifically addresses GENTILES and writes, \\"Rembember that AT THAT TIME [before you had faith in Christ] YOU WERE separate from Christ, EXCLUDED FROM CITIZENSHIP IN ISRAEL and foreigners to the covenantS of the promise.... But now in Christ Jesus you who were once far away have been brought near.... CONSEQUENTLY, YOU ARE NO LONGER FOREIGNERS [to Israel] and aliens, BUT FELLOW CITIZENS....\\"<br /><br />Paul spent his whole career arguing against recurring heresies like Fruchtenbaum's, which always tried, by one means or another, to cling to A LITTLE SOMETHING SPECIAL for people who were Jewish. In Fruchtenbaum's case, that something special is that Jews have citizenship in the Land of Israel, and Gentiles do not, even if they are Christian. Clearly Paul says the exact opposite above, when he notes that \\"at that time\\"(prior to their faith in Christ), Gentiles did not have \\"citizenship in Israel,\\" but adds that now they are \\"FELLOW citizens.\\"<br /><br />Fruchtenbaum argues throughout his book that God will continue to give Jews a little more distinction than Gentile Christians because theirs is the capitol of God's kingdom. Paul hated that recurring heresy and constantly battled to show that Gentiles have EXACTLY the same citizenship \\"in Israel\\" (and in God's kingdom) as Jews.<br /><br />Fruchtenbaum argues that Gentiles do not receive through Christ all that was promised through the covenants God made with Abraham, but Paul argues that they do. Notice in the verses above, Paul uses the plural \\"covenantS.\\" ALL OF GOD'S COVENANTS ARE BROUGHT TOGETHER IN CHRIST FOR ALL WHO BELIEVE IN CHRIST. That's why Paul also says in this chapter that Christ \\"has made the two [Jews and Gentiles] one and has destroyed the barrier, the dividing wall of hostility.... His purpose was to create in himself ONE new man out of the two, thus making peace....\\"<br /><br />We will never have peace in Israel, so long as Jews maintain the land is theirs by birthright. There is NO special covenant that remains for Jews alone. ALL of the covenants God made with his people were given to his one seed, Jesus, who was a Jew (and, therefore, the convenants were literally fufilled), and are handed through that Jew as an inheritance to all who believe in him. (After all, if the land is Jesus' inheretance, then he alone can do with it as he wishes.) Yet, there are always some Jews like Fruchtenbaum who want to retain a slight edge over others, and what bitter hostility that separateness (no matter how fine the dividing line) creates.<br /><br />Why is this crucial today? Fruchtenbaum's theology lies at the heart of war in Israel -- the idea that Jews deserve the land BECAUSE THEY ARE JEWS. Paul's theology, on the other hand, says that God opened up all of the covenantS he had made with Israel to make them accessible to Gentiles, too, including \\"citizenship in Israel.\\"(I'm quoting Paul.) Nothing has been taken away from the Jews because they can still be a part of Israel through faith in Christ, the heir to the covenants, but they have no blood rights to the land or anything else. That's why Jesus said, \\"Who are my mother and brothers?\\" and then said his mother and brothers were those who followed him, not those who held that role by blood rights. The covenantS go to those who have the faith of Abraham, not the blood of Abraham, for, as Jesus said, \\"God can raise up children of Abraham from these stones\\" if he wishes.<br /><br />Any kind of \\"fundamentalism\\" that preserves a fine but significant barrier between Jewish Christians and Gentile Christians (or Jews in general and Gentiles in general) serves to maintain the strife in Israel. You cannot have the promised land without accepting the promised king, for it is his alone to give. Those who fight over it as a blood right, will spill their own blood and die by the sword.ip in Israel.\\" (I'm quoting Paul.) Nothing has been taken away from the Jews because they can still be a part of Israel through faith in Christ, the heir to the covenants, but they have no blood rights to the land or anything else. That's why Jesus said, \\"Who are my mother and brothers?\\" and then said his mother and brothers were those who followed him, not those who held that role by blood rights. The covenantS go to those who have the faith of Abraham, not the blood of Abraham, for, as Jesus said, \\"God can raise up children of Abraham from these stones\\" if he wishes. <br /> <br />Any kind of \\"fundamentalism\\" that preserves a fine but significant barrier between Jewish Christians and Gentile Christians (or Jews in general and Gentiles in general) serves to maintain the strife in Israel. You cannot have the promised land without accepting the promised king, for it is his alone to give. Those who fight over it as a blood right, will spill their own blood and die by the sword.	2005-01-03
US	50827040	R2X6VMNYHQRDKL	0963505505	197302207	Through the Fire Without Burning	Books	1	15	21	N	N	No one is ever bothered by a false prophet	What [to] do with the fact that when Dumitru has given dates for the fulfillment of his prophecies, particularly on his web site, he has been ENTIRELY wrong? I suppose it doesn't bother Dumitru ... It never bothers a false prophet when his dates are wrong-never:<br /><<NOV. 1993: \\"I opened a great book with the words \\"BOOK OF THE GENTILES\\" <BR>scrawled on it. I saw all kinds of names written page after page. When I reached the end of <BR>the book, l found that there were one and three quarter pages left blank, unwritten.\\"<br />JAN. 1996: The angel said to me, \\"Do you remember how many pages were left to fill when <BR>I showed you last time? Now there is but one page left. When this is completed, what I have <BR>told you will happen to America.\\" He then told me that the time needed to complete this <BR>last page will be SHORTER.>><br />That's a clear statement. There's no ambiguity: the time remaining would be LESS than the <BR>time between November 1993 when Dumitru saw the blank pages and 1996. If it took less than <BR>three years for the first page to be filled, and there was only one page left, which was to be <BR>filled in a \\"shorter\\" time, then all the events of his \\"America Will Burn\\" prophecy should <BR>have happened by 1999. Here we are now twice that far out in time, and not a single one <BR>of the events in that prophecy has happened:<br />America didn't burn.<BR>No nuclear missile silos were bombed.<BR>No planes full of atom bombs.<BR>Florida's still there.<BR>Las Vegas is still there.<BR>California's still there.<BR>New York's still there, though a little worse for wear, but not due to atom bombs on planes or extremist militias or Russian attacks.<BR>No militias have sprung up in battle, not even during the chaos of Sept. 11, not even now when the government is preoccupied with external problems.<BR>China and Japan have not arisen against Russia.<BR>And, of course, Israel has not lost America as an ally.<br />All things that Dumitru prophesied that neverhappened in the timeframe he gave.<br />What's even more significant is that he missed ALL of the enormous events that really did happen in 2001! He was, in fact, AS WRONG AS IT IS HUMANLY POSSIBLE TO BE. ... <br />In the name of Jesus Christ,<br />David Haggith (Who's tired of false Pentecostal prophets. Now right ones would be a different matter.)	2002-02-21
US	50827040	R37Y4TO6Z5VUJ0	157593955X	142335922	The Breaking of the Outer Man and the Release of the Spirit	Books	2	24	70	N	N	Repetitious, Redundant, and Tending to Repeat Itself	My first objection to this book is the EXTREME number of times Watchman Nee repeats his central theme as if asserting it over and over makes it become a fact. He offers very little scriptural support for his beliefs and a great deal of assertion. He repeats many of his minor points, too, replaying the same statement five to ten times in a chapter. It's a tiny book that could have been half as large, just by removing the redundancy. (Have I said it enough to give you a sampling of Nee's repetitious style?)<br />The second objection is more significant. Nee expresses only two ways that the Holy Spirit transforms lives: one way is by breaking what Nee calls the outer man--the side of us that others encounter, the side that faces to the world. The other is by revelation, where God shows us how HE sees us. Both methods are entirely negative in Nee's analysis: The Spirit breaks the outer man by bringing suffering into life until we can bear up no more. Nee is also a fatalist who believes EVERY event in your life is predetermined by God for your good. All of the &quot;bad&quot; events are placed there by God to do the necessary breaking of your outer person so that the Holy Spirit can spill through--like cracking an alabaster perfume jar, so the spirit of the perfume can seep out. God's second method of transformation of the human soul, according to Nee, is through revelation. This, too, turns out to be entirely negative. When God reveals your outer person as HE sees you, you will be utterly mortified at the pitiful truth and will find it very difficult to live as you once did.<br />I don't doubt that God uses the negative things in our lives to transform us for the better and even allows them for that purpose. The tree that grows by the windswept cliffs is the most beautiful. Romans teaches that &quot;All things work together for the good of those who serve the Lord and are called according to his purpose.&quot; That's different, however, than saying God ordains all the bad events in your life. Romans says that God's Spirit will transform the bad events into creative forces that will sculpt and weather you into a better person if you allow him to.<br />For Nee, ALL of the work of the Holy Spirit is done through negative means alone--through breaking and through revealing your depravity; but if you read all of the New Testament, you'll be surprised at how little of that is really expressed. Granted that such means are sometimes necessary, look at how Christ transformed his disciples while on earth: It wasn't through breaking them; it was through patience and teaching and compassion and service and kind example and creativity and healing and . . . . Sure, there was heartbreak at the cross and despair in Peter when he denied Christ. Life is not all good. There are some heartwrenching moments. Once in a very great while Jesus even scolded them. I read through all of the Gospels while I was reading Nee's book and found the Gospels present a balanced and mostly positive approach toward working with the human soul that you won't find in Nee's book.<br />Nevertheless, there are some nuggets of wisdom amid the gravel: &quot;Those whose words pretend intimacy with God are probably farther away from Him. When one doesn't have the light, it is easy for him to claim intimacy with God.&quot; So, the book is not without its good points.	2001-10-26
US	50827040	R1EUWVQ33FRXHI	0880292393	72627601	The Wall Chart of World History: From Earliest Times To The Present	Books	5	41	45	N	N	Wow!	In writing my own book on biblical prophecy I found THIS book more helpful than any chart I've ever seen. No, it's not about prophecy. It's all about history, but its method of laying out parallel streams and branches for every major nation on earth made it one of the best resources I've had for capturing in a glance all the major events that happened in any given year all the way back to about 4000 B.C. And it's fun! You get intrigued and want to look around and see what was happening in other countries at the time you're interested in or what happened in the century before or after. It starts you exploring the past. When you're reading about a particular time, you can flip to the chart and get a view of what was happening in the rest of the world at that time. Now my favorite resource.	2001-10-11
US	50827040	R1DPT6MY8AT5CM	0802808689	694218053	God in the Dock: Essays on Theology and Ethics	Books	5	2	2	N	N	I've used this book over and over in my own writing.	You know a book is packed with wisdom and insight, when you find yourself repeatedly referring back to it for quotes. God in the Dock (an expression referring to the courtroom dock / witness stand), covers such a wide range of topics, from evil and miracles and myth to creation/evolution, ethics and ordinary human squabbles.	2001-09-08
US	50827040	R2RQ1OPCN7321V	0005991897	146481665	Meditating As a Christian: Waiting upon God	Books	3	4	10	N	N	A little disappointing	The author places too much emphasis on prayer as duty, rather than prayer as privilege. I don't recall Jesus ever emphasizing it as a duty, nor any of the apostles, though it's certainly something we need to do for our own spiritual health. The author also uses too many exclamation points to drive his views home, as if that makes the matter clear.<br />Secondly, the book said almost nothing about contemplative prayer or mystical experience. It only touched on it to indicate that this is the highest form of communion with God and to say that it deserved much more thorough study. Apparently, the author wasn't willing to give it that kind of study, even though he was writing a book on Christian meditation.	2001-09-08
US	50827040	R1S87LF2CE8U4W	0877930724	860403378	Out of Solitude: Three Meditations on the Christian Life	Books	4	28	29	N	N	A nice little book for your own spiritual retreat.	This is a small book, almost a pamphlet, so it works very nicely for readings during a quiet retreat. Nouwen reminds us of the importance of solitude for service. The book is composed of a few sermons he gave at Yale and is one of those books where you'll find yourself wanting to excerpt quotes to stick on the wall by your computer. I'll give you one as an example: &quot;It is in this solitude that we discover that being is more important than having, and that we are worth more than the result of our efforts.&quot; The book is an affirmation.	2001-09-08
US	50827040	R7CC4KZJPOX24	0877880212	47431243	The Angles of Light: New and Selected Poems	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Luci Shaw is something rare in a Christian poet.	So much of the Christian poetry I've read is doggerel, usually dripping with sentimentality and cliche. So much modern poetry is so narrowly within the author's own head that you can scarcely connect with the images. Shaw, on the other hand, is what the average pedestrian really yearns for in a poet. Her poetry is always accessible, yet fresh with new ways of saying things. She helps you see the world. Her images sparkle and dance in your mind. Here's an example: &quot;What word informs the world, / and moves the worm along in his blind tunnel? / What secret purple wisdom tells the iris edges / to unfurl in frills? What juiced and emerald thrill / urges the sap until the bud resolves / its tight riddle? . . . What silver sound / thaws winter into spring? Speaks clamor into singing? / Gives love for loneliness? It is this / unterrestrial pulse, deep as heaven, that folds you / in its tingling embrace, gongs in your echo heart.&quot;	2001-09-08
US	50827040	R26ZHLRZBY0N2C	0156870118	714437196	Surprised by Joy: The Shape of My Early Life	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A great book AFTER you've enjoyed other Lewis books.	Not all of Lewis's experience will be interesting to the average reader. You have to be somewhat of a Lewis lover to fully appreciate this book about his gradual acceptance of Christianity. I greatly appreciated the book for its openness to mythology as the road that led Lewis to Christianity, where he believed he found the fulfillment of all he longed for in mythology. For Lewis, Christianity was the place where myth became fact. The book also provides an immense argument to support the importance of art and aesthetics, based on the divine role they played in this great man's life.	2001-09-08
US	50827040	RCWQ22RS98ZF7	1573830976	445903609	Writing the River	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Embraces Life.	Shaw's honesty before God and her readers is sometimes plaintive, yet filled with celebration. She is much like Annie Dillard with her keen eye and ear for detail. Like Dillard, she writes from her own Christian perspective, but conveys a spirituality that is completely open to all. If you're a spiritually minded person of any persuasion, you'll love her poetry. It speaks to both heart and mind.	2001-09-08
US	50827040	R2OA0PFZBVTY6K	1888848359	219913509	The Omega Code: Another Has Risen from the Dead	Books	2	3	9	N	N	Simple, yet stupid.	I saw the story in the theater, and was tempted to kill the projectionist. I had to remind myself it wasn't his fault. He was only acting under orders. Actually, the film was so dumb it was funny. I found myself almost laughing at the scary parts, and that's why it's destined to join the ranks of other rank films like Ed Woods' PLAN NINE FROM OUTER SPACE. If it were an animal, however, I'd have to give it a mercy killing. And the book, as I understand, runs pretty close to the film.<br />Besides providing proof that Christian filmmaking has arrived nowhere after more than twenty years, it also revealed the silliness of Hal Lindsey's ideas for the end of the world. Once you see them &quot;fleshed out&quot; on the big screen, the one thing that becomes clear is what a trite end for the world is envisioned by this whole concept. I suggest reading End-Time Prophecies of the Bible, if you want a dramatic look at biblical prophecies for the end of time.	2001-02-20
US	50827040	R2ZAEXW1MTP3PS	0965699005	188412543	The second coming of Jesus Christ already happened	Books	2	5	9	N	N	Rebuttal	The reviewer below criticizes me for not giving scripture to support my own view. Well, Fenley had a whole book in which to quote scripture. It's not possible to support my view in the space of a small review, so I suggest the book END-TIME PROPHECIES OF THE BIBLE, also available here at Amazon, if you want a book that quotes the same passages Fenley quotes but ALSO quotes the many passages he completely ignores--passages that describe events for Christ's return that clearly never happened around A.D. 70. and need to be dealt with honestly.	2000-12-14
US	50827040	R2FXFJGFCPHQ7Y	0883684780	536155417	The Final Quest	Books	2	27	45	N	N	The Final Test	In a review below I pointed out one of the serious falsehoods in Joyner's teaching. One reviewer later suggested people &quot;ask God for the Spirit of discerning so that you will know if this [book] is the truth, or a lie. Let's do that. The final test we are told to give to all perported revelations is to see if they align with the word of God. It's easy to show that Joyner flatly contradicts and undermines the authority of the Bible. While I'm not a fundamentalist, that's not something I take lightly. So, I'd like to present Joyner's major false teaching and then the scriptures that contradict it:<br />In his vision, Joyner asks the apostle Paul, &quot;What would you say to my generation that will help us in this battle?&quot; Paul responds, &quot;I can only say to you now what I have already said to you through my writings. . . . I so appreciate the grace of the Lord to use my letters as He has. But I am concerned with the way many of you are using them wrongly. They are the truth of the Holy Spirit, and they are Scripture. The Lord did give me great stones to set into the structure of His eternal church, BUT THEY ARE NOT FOUNDATION STONES. The foundation stones were laid by Jesus, alone. . . . If what I have written is used as a foundation, it will not be able to hold the weight of that which needs to be built upon it. What I have written must be built upon the only Foundation that can withstand what you are about to endure; it must NOT BE USED AS THE FOUNDATION.&quot;<br />Now lets see what the Bible says about Paul's and his writing. <br />First, the words of Paul, himself: &quot;Consequently, you [Paul's followers] are no longer foreigners and aliens, but fellow citizens with God's people and members of God's household, BUILT ON THE FOUNDATION OF THE APOSTLES AND PROPHETS, with Christ Jesus himself as the chief cornerstone.&quot; (Ephesians 2: 19,20)<br />Paul clearly teaches that the apostles ARE the foundation of the Church right alongside Jesus Christ. Jesus is honored by being called the &quot;chief cornerstone,&quot; which is the largest and most significant stone in a foundation, but the apostles are clearly considered stones in the foundation of Christ's Church (&quot;God's household&quot;) as well. Paul does not say the apostles built upon the foundation laid by Christ, he says they ARE the foundation laid by Christ. (Without the ministry of the apostles, no one would even know Jesus Christ today. We only have their word (and the words of their disciples) as to what Jesus taught.)<br />Paul also clearly considers himself one of the apostles. He calls himself an apostle frequently in his writings and takes great pains to point out that his ministry was NOT handed down to him by the other apostles, but was given to him directly by Jesus Christ. In fact, he says he ministered for something like thirteen years before he even went to Jerusalem to visit the other apostles for the first time, and then he did not go to get their confirmation or ordination, but just to inform them about his ministry. He was not seeking their blessing because he considered himself to be on an equal footing with them.<br />In Romans 15:20, he says, &quot;It has always been my ambition to preach the gospel where Christ was not known, so that I would not be building on someone else's foundation,&quot; making it clear that he is laying a foundation of his own, not building upon someone else's foundation. Clearly he considers his work to be as foundational as any of the other apostles; but are the other apostles foundational?<br />The Book of Revelation, written by the apostle John says &quot;yes.&quot; It describes the Church of Christ as if it were a great city being lowered out of heaven: &quot;One of the seven angels who had the seven bowls full of the seven last plagues came and said to me, 'Come, I WILL SHOW YOU THE BRIDE, the wife of the Lamb [Christ].' And he carried me away in the Spirit to a mountain great and high AND HE SHOWED MEthe Holy City, Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God.&quot; (Rev. 21: 9,10) This holy city, then, is a representation of the bride of Christ, elsewhere identified as the Church. In describing this city, John says it is built upon &quot;twelve foundations, and on them were the names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb.&quot; (Rev. 21:14) So, there, again, the apostles ARE the foundation of the Church.<br />At least twice Paul got in major arguments with the apostle Peter and won both times, showing himself to be equal in authority to the other apostles. And it is Peter who confirms near the end of his life, &quot;. . . our dear brother Paul also wrote you with wisdom that God gave him. He writes the same way in all his letters, speaking in them of these matters. His letters contain some things that are hard to understand, which ignorant and unstable people distort, as they do the other Scriptures, to their own destruction.&quot;<br />So, Joyner fails the final test and distorts what Paul says about his own writing. Joyner's vision contradicts three of the apostles (Paul, John, and Peter), two of which clearly teach that the writings of the apostles are foundational; and Peter comes very close to saying the same thing (and would have said the same thing if that was the question he was dealing with).	2000-11-03
US	50827040	R7G343LFFANKY	1575580217	263653995	Prince Charles: The Sustainable Prince	Books	1	23	55	N	N	A Sustainable Paranoia?	My mother made me read this. Told me it would change my views of the world once I saw what a U.N. researcher had discovered about Prince Charles. Now, I'm not a Prince Charles fan, but this was no research. Much of the book is the author's repetitious assertion that sustainable development is an evil conspiracy that places nature over man, and threatens to reduce human population by 90%--supposedly a goal of Prince Charles. (Yes, the prince wants to reduce the world's population to 500,000,000 people.)<br />First, one should question the internal logic here. The book presents Charles as if he were the Antichrist who wants to rule the world. Maybe he does, but if he reduces the world's population by 90%, what will he be ruler of? Wouldn't any smart prince prefer a vast domain over a diminished realm? According to the book, Charles leads the World Trade Organization (or, at least, is one of its top players), and the W.T.O is also part of this population reduction conspiracy. But if the merchants and manufacturers of the W.T.O. reduce the world's population by 90%, don't they also reduce their markets by 90%? Why would a group of world merchants want to reduce their potential income by 90%? Consider the prince's close alliance with Bill Gates: do you really think Microsoft wants to sell only millions of operating systems when it could hope to sell billions? Population reduction hardly fits the expansionist billionaire mentality. And those who run W.T.O. sweatshops, surely prefer a large slave population that may someday even wear Nike shoes.<br />Second, one might question the kind of argument by innuendo the author wages: We know Charles is involved in world conspiracies because he's connected to so many major organizations like the W.T.O. and the U.N.  Well, he is a prince, isn't he? Think about it. Did you really expect he would only belong to the London Hopscotch League? Ms. Veon also tells us that the U.N. places the U.S. under British charter. I'm not too fond ofthe U.N., but I don't recall any circumstance in which England had more say over U.N. activities than the U.S. or where it dictated U.S. actions. It seems to me we throw our weight around as well as anyone else in that particular disorganization, so I'm not too concerned that we're puppets of the English imperium. In fact, I think a few people in the U.K. feel the exact opposite might be true. (Though hearing the English argue that the U.S. is too imperial is a bit of a laugh.)<br />Finally, consider Ms. Veon's insistence that sustainable development--which tries to balance environmental concerns with economic concerns--turns Genesis on its head, giving nature dominion over man: The argument comes from a misguided theology that says God created earth for humans...	2000-11-03
US	50827040	R2QFG2FOQ6ZLZS	0966894901	368114797	Minds In Many Pieces: Revealing the Spiritual Side of Multiple Personality Disorder	Books	4	27	27	N	N	Piece of Mind	You don't have to be interested in learning about Multiple Personality Disorder to find this book fascinating. When writing a book about a person who was a multiple, I realized MPD offers a unique window into the human mind (including the soul). It offers an exploded view of the mind where one can look in and around the pieces before reassembly. Each multiple provides startling revelations of how the mind works and what it means to be a person.<br />Allison uses his case studies to examine individual fragments in just this way. He has what many doctors lack--humility. He shares his mistakes as well as his successes, and because he's willing to face ridicule by his colleagues, he ventures into territory others avoid. His stories offer glints of the human soul, insights into the workings of a spiritual realm that do not neatly fit in any of our scientific of theological boxes and hints of our connection to our Creator. Particularly interesting is his discovery of an entity common to all mulptiples. (Allison chooses the word &quot;entity&quot; over &quot;personality&quot; in this case.) He calls this entity the Internal Self Helper and shows how this aspect of the person has remarkable knowledge of all the events in the person's life as well as what it will take to put Humpty Dumpty back together again. The Internal Self Helper often displays knowledge of a connection with God that goes beyond this present life. One gets the feeling that in this unique personality or entity we are seeing a glimpse of that part of the person we call the soul or perhaps the spirit, broken off from the rest of the being so that the counselor can speak to it directly.<br />Some facets of personality shimmer with the light of heaven while others are opaque with the darkness of hell. In his book, Allison candidly describes reintigration of the personalities as well as exorcism of opportunistic spirits that have worked their way between the cracks.<br />The one drawback I saw to the book wasthe final chapter, which was appended fifteen years after first publication of the book. Unlike all of the other chapters which are short on conclusions and ample with examples, the last chapter is all conclusions without any examples to support his sweeping claims. He steps off his own pyschological turf to offer a number of enormous theological assertions, but offers no support from his own case studies or from religious writings. For example, he states that reincarnation is taught in the Old and New Testaments and acknowledges that the church disputes this, but then he doesn't say where or how the Bible supports the idea of reincarnation. There is, of course, the possiblity that John the Baptist was the reincarnation of the prophet Elijah predicted in the Old Testament, but he doesn't even mention this. And, so, I think he opens himself up to a lot of legitimate criticism in this final chapter because sweeping revolutions in religious understanding require careful argument, not mere assertions. Thus, four stars, instead of five.	2000-10-23
US	50827040	R876RVM2PHNO5	0898707102	142963587	An Exorcist Tells His Story	Books	4	305	324	N	N	What do you make of someone who vomits up a talisman?	C.S. Lewis said there are two mistakes people usually make when it comes to the devil: one is not to believe in him at all; the other is to believe  in him too much.<br />According to Father Amorth, only priests have the gift  of exorcism. The problem, he points out, is that there are virtually no  priests left in the Catholic Church who believe in demons or exorcisms.  That's the first danger pointed out by C.S. Lewis. Even Ignatius Press, a  Catholic publisher, apparently could not find a Catholic priest who  believed in exorcisms because the foreword is written (reluctantly) by a  priest who can only say, &quot;I have difficulties with Fr. Amroth's [sic.]  approach.&quot; He then closes his foreword with the warning, &quot;This  book needs to be read with care but with an open mind.&quot; Not much of a  recommendation as forewords go. It may be that the priest writing the  foreword believes in the devil, but just believes there are better ways of  dealing with the devil. He doesn't say what it is about Fr. Amorth's  approach that bothers him. He does say, however, &quot;I recognize in this  book the account of an intelligent and dedicated pastor who has had the  courage to go where most of us fear to tread.&quot;<br />Perhaps some caution  in reading the book is wise--not that you will go wrong by reading it, but  because the other peril with the devil is believing in him too much. The  more some people read about demons, the more they see them . . . in  everything that goes wrong. They start to live in fear, and if the devil  has one great power over us, I suspect fear is his greatest weapon. If  you're the type of person who reads a family medical guide and says,  &quot;Oh, I have that. I've felt that,&quot; and then reads about the next  illness and says, &quot;Oh, I might have that, too,&quot; then this isn't  the book for you.<br />Though Father Amorth doesn't describe the rites of  exorcism--since they can only be performed by priests--he does offer some  efficacious prayers for deliverance in an appendix and says that  &quot;Jesus gave the power to expel demons to all those who believe in him  and act in his name.&quot; I'm not sure what the distinction is between  exorcism and expelling, and Father Amorth doesn't clarify the  matter.<br />What Fr. Amorth does provides is numerous first-hand encounters  with demonic possession. These provide examples that can help one  understand the symptoms of posession in order to differentiate it from  things that might simply be mental illness. And, as the foreword indicates,  Fr. Amorth gives an intelligent account. This is not the account of some  faith healer who sees demons under every doily. He's careful to point out  that most people need psychologists, not exorcists, and that, even after an  exorcism, many people still need a psychologist to deal with the trauma of  their lives. Therefore, he usually works as a team member with a  psychologist. He's careful not to overstep his area of expertise. He's not  the type who goes around casting out &quot;demons of drunkenness,&quot;  &quot;demons of homosexuality,&quot; and &quot;demons of deafness&quot;  every time he runs up against someone with a problem.<br />Some of the events  he describes, however, go clearly beyond anything psychology can explain or  deal with. Behavior can always be explained psychologically, but Fr. Amorth  describes physical events that go beyond behavior or physical illness. What  do you make of someone, for example, who vomits up a talisman in the middle  of an exorcism? You could speculate that he wasn't careful enough when he  was eating his Cracker Jacks the night before. But that would't explain the  levitation that occurred during the exorcism . . . just before the talisman  came up.	2000-08-12
US	50827040	R3AYUU0LQ3XVCP	0965699005	188412543	The second coming of Jesus Christ already happened	Books	2	4	8	N	N	Leaves a lot to be said.	First, note that all but one of the reviews written below were posted on  March 23rd or March 24th, a pretty good indicator that they're all by  people who know Mr. Fenley, who were asked to write reviews, or by people  who all attended the same weekend conference. (What are the odds that six  out of seven reviews would be posted on the same day or two?) I ignored  that and bought the book anyway. I should have paid attention.<br />While Mr.  Fenley does a good job of lining up all the scriptures that support his  view, he almost completely ignores the numerous scriptures about Christ's  return that show no evidence of having been fulfilled. (Not to mention the  most obvious question raised by the book's title: In what sense did Christ  return in A.D. 70, given that no one saw him, none of his followers  reported this great event, and the persecution of Christians continued  unabated for centuries after?) If you're hoping, as I was, to find an  argument for historic fulfillment (i.e., a &quot;preterist&quot; argument)  that takes all of Christ's predictions into account, you won't find it  here. Not even close.<br />I would agree with Mr. Fenley that many of the  things Christ predicted for the &quot;end times&quot; were fulfilled by the  events surrounding the destruction of the temple in Jerusalem in A.D. 70;  but Fenley completely ignores those parts of Christ's prophecy that were  NOT fulfilled by the destruction of the temple. (Great distress unequaled  throughout ALL of history, the sun being darkened and the moon not giving  its light, the stars falling from the sky, all of the heavenly bodies being  shaken, Christ &quot;appearing&quot; in the sky, the appearance of angels  gathering Christ's followers from every part of the earth; and what about  all of the nations of earth mourning or the great earthquake that would  split Mt. Zion in two, mentioned elsewhere in prophecy? On and on the list  goes of events that far exceed anything that happened in Israel around the  year A.D. 70.) Nor does Fenley even attempt to explain how the destruction  of Jerusalem and its temple amounts to the return of Christ.<br />Like so many  others, Fenley stresses a literal reading of scripture, but then feels free  to go to extravagant figurative interpretations when it suits his position  to do so. He suggests, for example, that a psalm describing the glory of  creation really represents the Church. While it's POSSIBLE that this is  what the psalm was saying, it certainly isn't a literal reading. Nor is it  a likely reading.<br />This book comes across with a great deal of arrogance  toward those &quot;heretics&quot; whose beliefs do not align with Fenley's.  Unless you like that kind of self-righteous indignation, pass it by.	2000-08-07
US	50827040	R1JDFZLYUZXRCS	0609605410	193020540	Questioning the Millennium: A Rationalist's Guide to a Precisely Arbitrary Countdown (Revised Edition)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Fascinating Time and Time Again	Gould is always an interesting author, whether you agree with him or not. (Not that I found anything to disagree with in this case.) If you love the idiosyncracies of human history, then you'll be intrigued by all the  tidbits Gould pulls together regarding how our calendar was created (as  well as how other calendars were created). His approach is light-hearted,  which keeps the book from becoming a compendium of obtuse facts.<br />If  you're interested in the interplay between humans and millennial changes,  also try James Reston's THE LAST APOCALYPSE and END-TIME PROPHECIES OF THE  BIBLE (a shameless plug).	2000-07-31
US	50827040	RKB6J5I8MIK80	0064471195	607344832	The Chronicles of Narnia Boxed Set	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Timeless Classics	You can hardly raise literate children without The Chronicles of Narnia. It would be like growing up and never hearing of the land of Oz. These books are absolutely beautiful. In fact, they're one reason adults need  children and grandchildren, nieces and nephews--to give themselves an  excuse to read books that are called &quot;children's books.&quot; No  matter what you're outlook on life is (or your age), you'll love these  creative tales of an imaginative land.	2000-07-31
US	50827040	R1R8X0CCDSAFBF	0310212987	913654126	Three Views on the Rapture	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Redundant Rebuttals	I agree with the last reviewer on just about everything. It's helpful to have the three predominant views about the rapture side-by-side. The upside is that each view is presented by someone who believes it, so it gets a  fair presentation. There's a downside to the format, too. Since each author  offers a rebuttal to each of the others, and then later in the book  presents his own argument, there's a lot of redundancy. Since there are  three authors, there are always two rebuttals for each viewpoint, and  sometimes they make the same counterpoints or wind up presenting the same  point again when its their turn to express their view. The book would have  been improved by heavier editing. (Something a writer does't usually argue  for, but in this case I think authors writing rebuttals may not have known  what the other guy was going to say in his rebuttal.)	2000-07-31
US	50827040	RUHIBYM4RZYM1	0679765611	989306088	Crossing the Threshold of Hope	Books	5	126	127	N	N	How do you rate a pope?	First, I'm not Catholic, but I found this book to be beautifully written and articulate. In putting together a book I was working on for Putnam, I wanted to get the pope's understanding of end-time prophecies. This was the  right book, but I got much more than that. One of the poignant parts of the  book was the pope's explanation for all the divisions in the Church. First,  he acknowledges that many of these divisions came about because of the sins  of Christians against one another. (Though he doesn't say on which side,  but presumeably on all sides.) The pope is surprisingly affirmative of the  different denominations that have split off from Catholicism. He asks,  &quot;Could it not be that these divisions have also been a path  continually leading the Church to discover the untold wealth contained in  Christ's Gospel. . . ? Perhaps all this wealth would not have come to light  otherwise. . . . It is necessary for humanity to achieve unity through  plurality. . . .&quot;<br />I recommend the book to any non-Catholic who wants  to get a more accurate perspective of what the Roman Catholic Church  believes at its heart.	2000-07-31
US	50827040	RVJNPE6VGUOLD	0787947350	207629521	Let Your Life Speak: Listening for the Voice of Vocation	Books	4	39	45	N	N	&quot;To thine own self be true . . .	. . . And it must follow as the night the day, Thou canst not then be false to any man.&quot;<br />I used to frown upon Polonius's words in Hamlet. They seemed muddled in the same kind of serve-yourself mentality that  pervades much of pop psychology and much of our business culture. Polonius,  after all, was usually a man big on words and short on wisdom.<br />With time,  I came to understand those words more deeply. He's really saying,  &quot;Don't let others decide who you're going to be or how you're going to  act or react.&quot; When you act from a clear sense of who you are--who God  has created you to be--then your actions have integrity with your being.  And you will be false--in the sense of being phony--to no one.<br />Using  colorful metaphors, Parker Palmer takes this basic theme and fleshes it out  with his own life. He focuses this wisdom on the choice of vocation in  life, suggesting we put aside what we feel we &quot;ought&quot; to be and  choose a vocation that expresses who we truly are.<br />Sometimes he's a  little too fuzzy for me on the matter of truth, following the popular line  of thinking in our American culture that we each have our own truth. If  you're the kind of person who ascribes to that way of thinking, then you'll  probably love every aspect of Palmer's book. For myself, I can only go so  far with that. If by &quot;your own truth&quot; he means simply &quot;the  truth about yourself,&quot; then I whole-heartedly agree: we do each have  unique truths about ourselves; and, if we know those truths, we can avoid  some of the pitfalls in life. If he means, as so many do, that there's no  objective or absolute truth, only what &quot;works for you&quot; and what  &quot;works for me,&quot; I find that kind of thinking popular but shallow,  no matter how nicely you dress it up with words.<br />Still, in terms of  vocation, I think he's right. The code I'm trying to accept for myself when  it comes to vocation is &quot;pursue your passion.&quot; That, in essence,  is what Palmer describes. I could be misunderstood on that, just as I may  be misunderstanding what Palmer's saying about truth. Some might think I  mean &quot;Do whatever feels good. Follow your lusts.&quot; What I really  mean is that God's calling rarely comes from words one hears. God has  created his calling within the very fiber of your being. If you pursue a  career or path in life that follows those things you most deeply care about  and desire to be and do, then I think you are being the person God has  created. That, according to Palmer, is our true calling--to be the person  God has created us to be and not the person everyone else thinks we should  be--not even the one we think we &quot;should&quot; be--but the person we  deeply want to be. If we believe our souls are uniquely created in the  image of God, then we can acknowledge that God's pattern for our lives lies  within ourselves. (Or--if you're an atheist--you can, at least, think of it  as being true to the core of your being.)<br />That doesn't mean we can  dispense with general guidelines for living, such as a moral framework for  social interaction, but the particulars for deciding how we can  meaningfully, joyfully, and helpfully engage with our world are imprinted  within. Palmer points out that being president is not for him, but it may  be just right for someone else. In that sense we have our own particular  truth, and we must be guided from self-understanding if we're going to  serve others in the most joyful way we can.	2000-07-31
US	50827040	R2SWIT0XL0ENL2	0883684780	536155417	The Final Quest	Books	2	62	122	N	N	Dante did it better.	It's not easy to rate another man's vision from God. Who of us can say for certain what God has revealed to someone? And yet even the Bible instructs followers of Jesus Christ to question the spirits, meaning to question what  spirit really gave a vision to someone. Apparently, then, Jesus' own  followers can receive visions from deceitful spirits from time to time or  simply from their own imaginative spirit. And, so, the greater body of  believers is instructed to question what they hear from their fellow  believers.<br />I don't see many blatant contradictions between what Joyner  writes and what one can find in the Bible, but I also don't see any new  insights. Joyner's purported vision combines Dante's multiple levels of  paradise with John Bunyon's famous trek by the Pilgrim--only without the  high art of these other works. There's nothing particularly original or  illuminating about Joyner's book. If you're the type who is easily  motivated to a closer walk with Jesus by guilt, then this book might give  you some motivation.<br />The problem I had with Joyner's work was the tone.  It comes across as falsely humble. It reads like the visions of a  Manic-Depressive. On the one hand, Joyner will comment on how overwhelmed  by his own sin he is during his journey into heaven. Then, only six  paragraphs later, he states, &quot;Immediately the entire host of heaven  seemed to stand at attention, and I knew that I was the center of their  attention.&quot; Wow! What a delusion of grandeur! And then he swings  immediately back into a darker mood: &quot;I was too corrupted. I could  never adequately represent such glory and truth.&quot; So, while he's  openly humble, he's also the center of attention for all of heaven--and  he's the center of attention throughout his book.<br />Joyner even says the  Apostle Paul was eager to speak with him: &quot;. . . you do not understand  just how much we have looked forward to meeting you.&quot; And what has the  Apostle been dyingto tell Joyner? &quot;I would have you understand [my  writings] by knowing that I fell short of ALL that I was called to  do.&quot; Paul proceeds to confess his shortcomings to Joyner and then  declares that his writings as an apostle were never to be considered as  foundational to Chritian belief. Other great saints also apologize to  Joyner for not having served him better with their writings than they  did.<br />Why, then, I wonder, shouldn't we place Joyner's vision of a  hierarchical heaven in the Bible right after Revelation--as the great  revelation that begins the end times? While lacking all the genuine  grandeur of Revelation, it certainly reveals far more about heaven than  Paul's writings. And if Paul's writings aren't foundational, then why are  John's or Peter's or Matthew's? And why not add Joyner's as a needed  corrective? How humble is it to sound as though the person who wrote half  the New Testament has been long awaiting the chance to tell YOU that he  could have done much better than he did?<br />In deed, Joyner walks right past  many great evangelists who have been relegated to the lower parts of  heaven, and proceeds to the center of heaven--the throne of Christ. And it  is upon Joyner's entrance into heaven that we are told the great mysteries  of God will now begin to be revealed on earth. Apparently, the greatest  revelations in heaven and on earth were all awaiting Joyner's entrance into  this part of heaven before they could be revealed. (At least in the Apostle  John's book they were awaiting the Lamb of God, not the apostle.)  Certainly, then, Joyner's visions from God should be appended to the New  Testament right after John's Revelation. <br />In this multi-tiered heaven, we  are told that those who sit closest to Christ &quot;will be known by two  things: they will wear the mantle of humility, and they will have My  likeness. You now have the mantle,&quot; Christ says to Joyner. Really? It  seems to me that humility is not thinkinglowly of yourself (as Joyner  often does in his grovelling about his unworthiness and sinfulness), and  certainly humility is not thinking highly of yourself (as Joyner also does  by placing himself superior to Paul and by having all of heaven's attention  centered on himself). Humility is simply not thinking of yourself at all.  When you read John's Revelation, there's not too much in it about the  Apostle John. When you read Joyner, it's all about Joyner.<br />I also  question the validity of a heaven that gives better seats to some than to  others. Apparently God's grace gets you to the threshhold, but after that  it's works all the way--it is, however, not the quantity of the deeds  themselves, but the spiritual motivation behind them, that gets you a  higher seat in the tiers of Christ's throne room.<br />I'm concerned that a  work that centers constantly on one man, no matter how much it declares the  glory of Christ or how piously he frowns upon his own unworthiness, is  trying to build a following. To what eventual end?<br />In the one truly  revelatory prayer near the end of his book, Joyner implores, &quot;Lord! .  . . I ask you for the grace to love You like this so that I can be  delivered from the delusions and self-centeredness that have so perverted  my life.&quot; <br />I can only hope his prayers were answered by this review.	2000-07-05
US	50827040	R32JFOV3URDHAR	0801034833	466335093	Foxe's Book of Martyrs (Giant Summit Books)	Books	4	56	66	N	N	A classic on those who burned bright in the darkness	Some historians have pointed out that Foxe was biased against Catholics. Although his personal conflict against Catholicism likely drove his effort to put this book together, one has to recognize that the very abuses described in this book are a large part of WHY he was set against  Catholicism in his own day in the first place. So far as I know, most or  all of the stories of burning heretics, which Foxe describes, are true. All  of which is a part of what Pope John Paul II has begun apologizing for at  the change of the millennium.<br />But Foxe also spends an equal amount of  time retelling the stories of Christians who were killed for their faith  during the days of ancient Rome. As a result, I don't think the book builds  Roman Catholic resentment in most readers. Instead, it reveals the real  fabric of Christian faith. Those who like only a rosey picture of the  Church are no different than those who like only a rosey picture of the  real world we live in. This book describes the dark times in Christian  history, but the light is never lost in that darkness. And that is what  this book is really about--the inability of the darkness to snuff out the  light of true faith--whether it is an internal darkness within the Church  or an external darkness that tries to engulf the Church.	2000-04-03
US	50827040	R26P22QJ7TO7L9	0446671002	58848637	The Celestine Prophecy: An Adventure	Books	1	0	1	N	N	Wistful Thinking for the Millennium	The book might rate two stars only because it's mildly entertaining, but even there it's nothing great. It's utopian dream for the future falls far short of capturing the imagination in the grand way that previous utopian  books have done. In short, it's a shallow dip of the toes into a deep, deep  sea.	1999-12-18
US	50827040	RUS3CPGXO1OYP	0310212987	913654126	Three Views on the Rapture	Books	3	4	5	N	N	A Balanced Discussion	A friendly discussion of three points of view regarding the rapture. Gives pros and cons to each view. I did, however, find this book a bit tedious at times because some of the arguments get repeated and most of the scriptures  that are referenced give reference numbers only (rather than quotes) so I  constantly had to stop and look them up. But, at least, it was a fair  presentation.	1999-12-16
US	50827040	RJE3N1Y5FUJS8	031027771X	530273080	The Late Great Planet Earth	Books	1	11	21	N	N	Do yourself a favor and dig deeper.	Since the book wasn't written for entertainment value, I can't give it any stars for that. All I had to do to remember why the Late Great Planet Earth amounts to shallow speculation was watch the movie The Omega Code, for  which Hal Lindsey was the &quot;prophetic advisor.&quot; When you see his  views actually acted out, you realize what a pathetically trite and  disjointed ending he has concocted for the world. It made me think,  &quot;If this is how Hal really thinks the world is going to end, he ought  to be embarrassed.&quot; Of course, The Late Great Planet Earth is where  the Lindsey empire began. Someday I'll sit down and reread it for  entertainment value.	1999-12-16
US	50827040	R3NBLXYY10DCZB	1581340672	208703257	The Sign Of Christ's Coming And The End Of The Age	Books	1	48	88	N	N	Bold but Brassy	&quot;It would be hard to overemphasize the urgency of themessage of this book,&quot; Van Kampen says (about one hundred timesthroughout the book, thereby overemphasizing it to death).<br />Van Kampen is willing to stand apart from the majority with regard to questions like the timing of the rapture, but he's just as adament and arrogant about his views as many who stand on the other side of the question. For example, he talks about the symbol of a white horse in the Book of Revelation that goes forth as a conqueror and says, &quot;The white horse can only [only?] represent one thing. . . . Christ tells us [now quoting an entirely different book], 'Many wilI come in my name, saying, &quot;I am the Christ,&quot; and will mislead many' . . . . Thus . . . the white horse must [must?] represent the proliferation of false messiahs.&quot; Comparing a brief statement from one book is scant ground for being so adamant about the meaning of a symbol in another book. Apparently all other interpretations were forbidden by Jesus' warning of false messiahs.<br /><br />In fact, Van Kampen almost apologizes when he can't be adamant about something: &quot;This writer cannot be adamant about who this 'foreign god' will be. . . .&quot; Given the way he repeats this kind of statement on those rare occassions when he is not adamant, one gets the feeling he would certainly like to be adamant about it if he could. Van Kampen repeatedly makes it clear that those who don't understand the scriptures in the way he does are going to suffer worse during the tribulation than those who do (ostensibly because they'll be less prepared). &quot;The consequences of faulty thinking will be devastating.&quot; But there's also a hint of &quot;That'll teach them to disagree with me.&quot;<br /><br />Oddly, Van Kampen states early in the book that &quot;even when one starts with biblical revelation, indentifying current events with specific biblical end-time events should be done with tentativeness and theutmost caution.&quot; Too bad he never takes his own advice. Van Kampen is never tentative. He's not even tentative about how FUTURE events will match with specific prophecies (more or less current events). He's so detailed in his prediction of future events that he actually lays out the war map that the Antichrist will use, showing where he will camp and what routes he will follow through Israel and what race the Antichrist will be.<br /><br />This Antichrist will be German because, according to Van Kampen, Israel's persecutors have always descended from one of Noah's sons named Japheth. Only problem is Van Kampen never proves that Germans decend from Japheth (nor that Israel's persecutors descend from Japheth). He even admits this briefly: &quot;their [German] lineage cannot unequivocally be traced back to a particular son of Japheth.&quot; Well, if they can't be traced back to one of Japheth's sons, they can't be traced back to Japheth either. In spite of this missing link, Van Kampen makes much of this lineage throughout the book.<br /><br />He's also presumptuous regarding the accuracy of his analyses: &quot;The incredible events outlined here are all founded in truth and will in fact transpire as described in the following pages, not because of any claims that I might make, but because God's Word declares it.&quot;  Van Kampen is that emphatic throughout. He writes like someone who's been a boss all of his life (which he has) and now thinks he's the boss of his readers, too. If he can't persuade you to his position, he'll cow you to it. Instead of using logic, he often argues by assertion. He considers his case proven by quoting a single verse then stipulating what it means, even though many others have understood it differently. Having, thus, proven the point, he'll use that as his premise for an argument that rages through a whole chapter.<br /><br />Thus, he argues, &quot;despite the fact that the vast majority of prophetic scholars believe [a certain point]. . . Scripture clearly teaches otherwise.&quot; Well, if it's so &quot;clear,&quot; why have the &quot;vast majority&quot; of scholars missed the point?<br /><br />If you buy this book just beware that Van Kampen often reads his own thinking into scripture, asserting that it says things that are not there at all. For example, he quotes 2 Peter 3:4,5: &quot;They will say, 'Where is this &quot;coming&quot; he promised? Ever since our fathers died, everything goes on as it has since the beginning of creation.' But they deliberately forget that long ago by God's word the heavens existed and the earth was formed out of water and by water.&quot; From this Van Kampen concludes, &quot;as the passage of 2 Peter 3:4,5 predicts, evolution will be the dominant thought of the world as it goes into the [end times].&quot;<br /><br />Wow!  What a leap of logic. We're now near the end because Peter &quot;predicted&quot; evolution would be the dominant belief as the end nears. It seems to me Peter's point was that things on God's time scale take a lot longer than man's time scale, with Creation being a good example of how long things take, for Peter immediately goes on to say that &quot;a day to the Lord is as a thousand years.&quot; Peter is simply stating that people will begin to doubt the end is coming because things on God's time scale happen slowly by our reckoning. He was hardly predicting the theory of evolution as the dominant philosophy of the end times.<br /><br />Even when I believe the same thing Van Kampen does, I find his arguments are often convoluted and insert meanings into verses that simply aren't there.<br /><br />I would have given Van Kampen two stars instead of one simply because he's willing to step outside the mold and take some flak for it, but I think he enjoys flak. He certainly makes himself a glow-in-the-dark target for it with his brash, combative style. One of the most arrogantly written books I've ever read.	1999-12-13
US	50827040	R2U9HXRQIG1RSQ	0385483260	495318696	Last Apocalpyse	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Fascinating and Balanced	I found this entertaining and informative book quite useful in researching my own book. What I liked most about it-outside of the fascinating stories-was that Reston pretty much lets his readers form their own  conclusions about the causes of change during the last millennial  transition.<br />So, I would take mild exception with the reviewer who  indicated that Reston gives too much credit to the year-1000 rollover. That  reviewer pointed out that &quot;At the turn of the millenium in which we  are now living, most people on the planet are abundantly aware of this as  an event. Not so in much of Europe around the year 1000. In particular,  much of Northern Europe, still being pagan, did not follow the Julian  Calendar.&quot; While it's true that most of Europe was probably not aware  that they were living 1,000 years after the birth of Christ, I don't recall  Reston ever saying that the changes that occurred around the year 1000 had  anything to do with millennial concern. He simply points out that many  highly significant changes did, in fact, occur during this time frame. He  leaves it up to the reader to deduce how much of this had anything to do  with concern over the year 1000.<br />So, I think it's a well balanced and  intriguing book.	1999-12-11
US	50827040	RPRQV3NVBZVXH	0921714386	8142754	The Handwriting of God: Sacred Mysteries of the Bible	Books	1	17	24	N	N	DECODING THE BIBLE CODE	It amazes me how some Christian authors have fallen all over the so-called Bible code and missed the obvious. Consider how the Bible code works and then ask yourself is there anything amazing about it at all:<br />First, the  computer is told what to look for by the so-called decoders. They pick an  event in history and then list as many key words as they can describing  that event. The computer only needs to find two or three of the key words  in order to please the decoders. Thus, the assasination of John F. Kennedy  might come up as any of the following (using modern Hebrew equivalents):  &quot;JKF, killed, Texas&quot; or &quot;Kennedy, Assasin, Car&quot; or  &quot;President, Dead, Dallas.&quot; The number of choices the computer has  for finding an event coded in the Hebrew Bible is as wide as the list of  facts and synonyms you can attribute to an event. As for matching dates,  every letter in the Hebrew alphabet represents a number (just as with Roman  numerals) and so the possibility for matching numbers is huge.<br />Second,  the Hebrew books that the computer scans were written in consonants only.  Because there are no vowels and because the matching strings of letters  have no context, just a few consonants can be used to make numerous words.  Example (using an English equivalent): B-R-D could mean &quot;bird&quot; or  &quot;board&quot; or &quot;bored&quot; or &quot;aboard&quot; or  &quot;brad&quot; or &quot;bared&quot; or &quot;broad&quot;  or&quot;abroad&quot; or &quot;bread&quot; or &quot;bred&quot; or  &quot;breed&quot; or &quot;bride&quot; or . . . You get the idea. It's like  playing  jeopardy with all the vowels being free wild cards. Thus, the  possibilities of finding words from your list of key words go up  tremendously.<br />Third, the computer is given a huge range of skip patterns  it can try in order to come up with strings of letters that match the  desired key words for a given historic event. Thus, the computer starts  scanning the Hebrewtext of one of the Bible's books by skipping every  other letter and seeing if it can come up with a letter sequence that  matches one or more of the key words. Then it tries skipping to every third  letter, then every fourth and so on throughout the  entire book. If  necessary it'll skip hundreds of letters. If it still doesn't find any  significant matches, it repeats the whole process, starting from the second  letter in the book. If, after all of that, the computer still can't find  two or three good matches from the key word list, the decoders simply try  using another book of the Bible. All that is required for a match to be  considered significant is that the key words that are found must be in  close proximity to each other. They don't even have to be found using the  same skip pattern. The decoders may have discovered &quot;JFK,&quot; for  example, by skipping to every 186th letter in the book of Genesis. Then,   within the area that JFK was found, they may have found &quot;assasin&quot;  by skipping to every fourth letter and the modern Hebrew spelling for  &quot;Dallas&quot; by skipping every thirteen letters. So long as each of  the words are found overlapping the same area of text as &quot;JFK,&quot;  it's a score.<br />Finally, consider this: the entire code rests upon the  spacing of the Hebrew consonants. That means that if a single letter had  ever been dropped out of the text or added to it, all the spacings after  that letter would have changed and the entire code would have been  scrambled. Although the Hebrew manuscripts were carefully handed down and  are, indeed, the most accurately preserved texts of antiquity, I doubt any  scholar would argue that not one single letter has fallen from the text or  been added to it. All you have to do is compare the existing manuscripts  and you will see that they do not agree EXACTLY to the letter. They are  incredibly well preserved but they do contain occassional spelling  variations or dropped words. So,which manuscript is the only perfect copy  in order for the code to work.<br />Guess what? With all the possible  variations the computer has to choose from (and that's why  it takes a  computer), it makes absolutely no difference which manuscript you use. They  will all work because they're all being treated like nothing more than a  pile of letters to pick and poke your way through anyway. You can pull the  vowels out of Moby Dick and get the same results, or you can pull the  bowels out of chickens and get accurate readings of the future, too. (It's  been done!)<br />The code is a crock! If you want interesting predictions, try  actually reading the Bible. It's amazing what the letters say when arranged  in the order the author intended.	1999-12-10
US	50827040	R3JD1O3MSUV6W1	0963931377	931121415	The Disney Live-Action Productions	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Book for Film Buffs, Disney Fans and Aspiring Filmmakers	John West's book offers an inside view of the film studio that chose to be different and became one of the nation's largest entertainment empires. The Disney difference was not just in content, but in how the studio was run.  In the days when Walt was alive, the emphasis was on the script and on  creativity, resulting in an esprit de corps among writers that no other  studio could match.<br />West brings objective balance to previous critics of  Walt Disney's operational style as well as critics of Disney films. West  reveals a man more complex, and therefore more real, than his critics have  portrayed. Stories by members of the Disney corps describe a man both tough  and fair, tempestuous, but also willing to let the battle drop, frugal, but  almost always willing to put the creative vision ahead of cost concerns.  West adroitly uses the right word for the right job in a manner that subtly  shades his arguments and helps the reader see the finer distinctions he is  making with regard to Disney's character.<br />Disney was a man of the people,  not given to the usual pretentious behavior of Hollywood executives. As a  result, his heroes-like those in earlier Frank Capra films-were the little  people, given a rare moment in life to show their courage, which always  derived from their principles rather than from rising to meet someone  else's expectations of what a hero should be. Disney the man cherished  those beliefs in his own dealings with people, having, as West shows, an  elastic view of his employee's talents, willing to let them move in  directions where they had not had a chance to prove themselves because he  saw the desire within.<br />When Walt died, the studio floundered for almost  two decades. One of the big changes that led to the decline at Disney  Studios came because the new executives were strictly businessmen, not men  of creativity. Not understanding the creative process as Walt had, they no  longer placed the primary emphasis on the writer andthe story, but tried  in simplistic ways to mimic the family-values content of previous Disney  material without recognizing that good stories are never written by  committee. Although Walt shaped scripts in consort with his writers in a  highly patriarchal fashion, he was a consumate creator himself-something  the later suits at Disney were not-and he always left the final  incorporation of his vision or revision with the original writer of the  screenplay.<br />Though Disney Studios has recovered from its perilous  decline, it's executives might fine-tune their newly recovered success by  reading this book and by realizing that the Disney difference was not just  content, but an operational style that let writers see their own vision  through from origination to the final shooting copy of their script.<br />A  good book for wannabe filmmakers, but an even better book for established  film executives.	1999-12-06
US	50827040	R3NC68QKF0I8XC	068815994X	450407395	Cracking the Bible Code	Books	1	108	154	N	N	Decoding the Bible Code	Here's why the Bible code is a crock:<br />The authors of all these types of books try to make it look like an extraordinary phenomenon that a computer  could scan a Hebrew book of the Bible and find sequences of letters in  close proximity that spell out major historic events (and therefore  presumeably major future events as well). Let's look at the real  odds:<br />First, the decoders give the computer a list of key words for a  specific historic event. They make the list as large as they can dream up,  but the computer only has to find two or three words from the list for it  to be considered a phenomenal find. Second, the computer starts it search  by scanning the Hebrew text, skipping every other letter. If it doesn't  find a few matches to the key words in close proximity, it scans every  third letter, then every fourth, going as high as it needs to go, up to  skipping more than a hundred letters. Third, if the computer still doesn't  find matches to the key words, it starts all over, starting with the second  letter in the Hebrew book and repeating all the same skips it tried from  the first letter. Fourth, if the decoders still don't find what they're  looking for, they simply move to another book of the Torah or they try a  different event with a different list of words. Fifth, the Hebrew Torah is  written in consonants only; so, B-R-D can mean BIRD or BOARD or BORED or  BARED or BREAD or BRED or BREED or BARED or ABOARD or ABROAD, etc. All the  vowels are wild cards; so every string of letters has a huge range of  possibilities.<br />Given that each book of the Torah contains tens of  thousands of consonants with an infinite number of wild cards to go between  them and thousands of ways of trying to skip through this pile of letters,  the truth is that it's inconceivable that the decoders couldn't find a  hidden message for any event, no matter how small. The only thing that's  truly amazing is that sometimes they DON'T find a match for their  keywords!<br />Finally, consider this: if a single letter had ever been  dropped near the beginning of any book of the Torah, the entire code would  be scrambled for that book, since everything depends on the relative  placement of letters. In spite of how precisely the books have been  transcribed over the years, there are variances of a letter or two here or  there.	1999-10-28
