US	50836966	RFLK65HITVPTK	1555211550	134897481	Hunting North America, 1885-1911	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	An underappreciated classic	Most hunting today is a pale shadow compared to what it used to be like.  The game is there, and in droves, but the wilderness is largely now occupied, and more and more hunters compete for less land, and fewer tags for prized animals.  Hardly the wild, free experience of our grandfather's and great grandfather's day, when they would take a train to the very end of its track, then hire a guide to take them to the very end of the road, then get in a canoe, and not come back for a month.  Noone, no matter how rich, can hunt today the way a common insurance salesman did in 1900.    This is a wonderful anthology of the golden age of American big game hunting.  You will find things here you've read about in other places, but could never find anywhere else.  Some of them are very famous stories, some are inconsequential letters to the local newspaper about a sheep hunt or a good day in a trout stream, but they are all written from a truly lost era.  Pre-Hemingway, pre-Ruark, pre-Boddington, pre-Jack O'Connor even - this is the pure essence.        Do yourself a favor and snag a couple of copies of this - one for yourself and one for a special young person in your life who is at \\"that age\\" when the lights start to come on in their mind.  \\"Sports Afield\\" and \\"Sporting Classics\\" are all fine and good, but there is nothing like going back to the pure source for the story of when hunting was truly an adventure, and not just a day's pastime.	2005-09-18
US	50836966	R2G9J12DDYQH3Q	0819301744	767033512	Jerome	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Here it is...	...after years of looking, I've found it.  This book is one of my most vivid childhood memories.  It's gorgeous bright illustrations and deeply lyrical, poetic text are burned into my memory.  Apparently there is a whole cult of us out there - men and women who grew up in love with the Parents Magazine Press books, and now collect them.  Titles like \\"Mother Mother I Feel Sick...\\" and \\"Fortunately\\" are some of our most cherished memories, and now we can share them with our own children.   <br /> <br />As far as Jerome is concerned, I used to read about the Wizard remembering what it was like when he was a child, and would run down grassy hills so fast that he thought he could never stop, and even as a child of 8 or 9 it made me want to cry at the beauty of it.  It still does today.  This is one of the truly great children's books.	2005-04-22
US	50836966	R1C7KVB4E9P92L	0940780313	374422494	Acid-Base, Fluids, and Electrolytes Made Ridiculously Simple (MedMaster Series)	Books	5	27	32	N	Y	Excellent nuts and bolts perspective	I'm glad I found this - fluids and acid/base is one of those topics that is easy to get a grip on (even basic EMT's have a fair working knowledge of it) but very difficult to master, unless someone shows you the path.  In this case, the path goes through the loop of Henle, and while you will get lost if you don't know your renal physiology (you better know the loop cold) this is the best little volume I've ever seen for laying it all out.  It is a very dense book - there is no fluff.  I gave up highlighting after a while because nearly every line was important.  It will also bear repeated readings.  Some of the chapters only made sense on the second or third reading, and this was with the material made as simple as it could be made.  But if you're stuck on nephrology and acid/base and can't seem to make heads or tails of this topic, I highly recommend this little book.  It also greatly benefits from multiple real world exercises using the many formulae that you'll learn, calculating fluid and electrolyte defecits.  Great stuff. <br /> <br />For PA's and MD's (and students of same.)  I can't see it being of any real use to staff nurses unless they work in a really high speed ICU or they just want to know a lot more than they learned in school.	2004-12-31
US	50836966	R2K76T29UJ62EH	0964603683	151143126	Details of Classic Boat Construction	Books	5	24	24	N	N	The way it's done.	What to say about this book...it shows you wooden boat construction at its very, very best.  Starting with raw lumber and simple hand tools, Larry Pardey takes us, step by laborious step, on the odyssey of building a truly world class cruising yacht, his 30' Taleisin.  Not only is every step of the hull construction detailed, but we also get \\"real world\\" time and cost estimates so there are no illusions as to how much time and money each step will take.  There are superb \\"pro and con\\" treatments of aspects that have a variety of solutions.  If there are multiple ways to tackle a job, he makes two columns and discusses the pros and cons of each in detail.  Usually you just get the author's opinions without any extra information. <br /> <br />This book is famous also because of it's very important final appendix on epoxies in salt water craft, and how epoxy often is weakened to the point of failure by salt water, repeated stress, and heat - 3 things that a sailboat gets plenty of.  I am told by many epoxy fans that this chapter \\"is now out of date\\", but I don't remember any amazing new epoxies coming out that make Pardey's findings defunct.  George Buehler says it best - epoxy works best when it's backed up by a bolt.  \\"Praise epoxy but pass the nails\\". <br /> <br />Also note the title \\"The Hull\\".  That's all you get.  When it comes to decks, houses, rigging, etc., you're on your own.  Hopefully Pardey will bring out volume 2 on the rest of the boat.   <br /> <br />He's a masterful carpenter and his work is glorious and gleaming, fully among the best of yacht-quality work ever done.  This is something you need to seriously soak in.  This is THE BEST, and not necessarily realistic for the average home boat builder.  This book represents a set of skills that you probably don't have, and may find difficulty developing in your lifetime, unless you are really dedicated.  Also, there is the time factor.  It's one thing to look at a photo of fastening planking on the frame and say \\"I understand that...I can do that!\\" and it's quite another to realize how many HUNDREDS of hours are involved in just a few of the aspects of the hull construction.  Pardey could work on his yacht full time - he didn't need to do other work to pay the bills.  He was also in the prime of his health.  Most Americans only have this kind of time if they're retired, and that often means not as strong as we once were.  If we're young and strong it means we have to work for a living.  So, this particular boat might be best aimed at the youngish man who doesn't have to work very much for his living.  Either that or you'll spend about a decade of weekends on this boat.   <br /> <br />If you want to get on the water a little quicker than that, consider George Buehler's \\"Backyard Boat Building\\", for salty and sea worthy crusising yachts that the average man or woman can build themselves in a year or two, and actually take to the Caribbean, or further.  I'm not saying don't aspire to Pardey's level, but remember that you live in the real world.  It's better to build a simple boat than to not build a fancy one.  It's better to go sailing than it is to spend your free weekends for 2 years screwing down teak decking.  But, that consideration aside, there is no better guide to traditional yacht construction than this.	2004-12-08
US	50836966	R73EIM12UKVU8	0071583807	915405713	Buehler's Backyard Boatbuilding	Books	5	87	89	N	Y	Home Depot guide to boat building	What sets George Buehler apart from the rest of the pack is his complete lack of pretense.  There is so much ego and posturing and snobbishness in sailing, even at its friendliest, that it can really turn the stomach of the uninitiated.  Buehler cries BS to all that, and says, \\"Hey...if you want to build a good boat and sail it, I can show you how.\\"  That can be mighty welcome news to someone who maybe isn't the son of a son of a sailor, or an orthopedic surgeon (with the associated bank balance.)  This book shows you how you can, yourself (honest!) build a sailboat that will take you around the Bay or around the Horn (for real!) and do it on a budget that will keep you from using your retirement funds or your kid's college money.  We're talking pretty short money here, for a boat that is built like Fort Knox and looks pretty sweet to boot.<br /><br />But there are other considerations.  Firstly, you have to want the sort of boat George likes, which is one based on the great British workboats - massive construction, long keels, heavy displacement, solid timber masts, usually even gaff rig.  Lost you yet?  That's what George likes, and if you're looking for a racer/cruiser to take you on a Jimmy Cornell rally to compete with all the Jeanneau 42's, you can forget it.  It ain't happenin'.  But, come a blow, you can heave your heavy, long keeled gaffer to and sleep the night away while the rest of the fleet white-knuckles it all night.  You have to make choices in life - you're at the fork in the road.<br /><br />The second consideration is resale.  Now, I know you're *never* going to sell your boat, you're going to be buried at sea in it like a Viking.  Right.  At some point you're going to want to sell your boat, or at least be rid of it.  The downside of George's boats is that they aren't \\"yacht quality\\", and you are going to have a hard time selling them.  With their 2X4 lumber yard ribs and plywood interior and houses, they look very home made.  If you are a talented craftsman, and want to spend a lot of money (and I thought we were trying to save money, right?) on teak and brass, you can make one look right shippy, but it's still going to be painfully obvious that this is a boat you built in your back yard.  It doesn't matter that your boat is as tough as nails - things like steel and concrete ballast and iron fastenings in the hull just terrify people (not without some reason, let's be honest) and will dampen the market.  Don't hold your breath waiting on the phone to ring come time to sell.  It's something to think about.<br /><br />For the flip side to this sort of boat building, check out Larry Pardey's masterwork on classic hull construction.  His idea of a backyard boat is one that would make the cover of every magazine in print, and sell for $100,000 after years of cruising.  But it takes years of work and LOTS of money and tools and equipment and skill to pull that off.  Maybe you don't have all that.  Maybe you don't WANT all that.  Maybe you just want to take a year, build a tough little boat, and spend a few years in the Caribbean.  In that case, let George Buehler take you there.lented craftsman, and want to spend a lot of money (and I thought we were trying to save money, right?) on teak and brass, you can make one look right shippy, but it's still going to be painfully obvious that this is a boat you built in your back yard.  It doesn't matter that your boat is as tough as nails - things like steel and concrete ballast and iron fastenings in the hull just terrify people (not without some reason, let's be honest) and will dampen the market.  Don't hold your breath waiting on the phone to ring come time to sell.  It's something to think about. <br /> <br />For the flip side to this sort of boat building, check out Larry Pardey's masterwork on classic hull construction.  His idea of a backyard boat is one that would make the cover of every magazine in print, and sell for $100,000 after years of cruising.  But it takes years of work and LOTS of money and tools and equipment and skill to pull that off.  Maybe you don't have all that.  Maybe you don't WANT all that.  Maybe you just want to take a year, build a tough little boat, and spend a few years in the Caribbean.  In that case, let George Buehler take you there.	2004-11-25
US	50836966	R27NOP39UYEUXU	0618154639	7737472	The Big Sky	Books	5	156	158	N	Y	Masterpiece of Western fiction.	The Big Sky is not just a masterpiece, it's probably THE masterpiece of the genre of western frontier fiction.  This is unusual because it deals with a moment in time that isn't really dealt with that much - the Rocky Mountain fur trade during its golden age of about 1820 - 1850.  The cowboy era has been responsible for most of western film and literature, partly because the images and events that happen in that world are recognizable to us: the economic and social issues you always see dealt with in \\"cowboy\\" movies mirror our own experiences in many ways.  The cowboy has also been said to be an image of freedom to Americans, when actually nothing was further from the truth.  Cowboys were regular working stiffs, about as romantic as carpenters or plumbers in their own day.  They didn't consider themselves \\"free\\", nor would they have spent much time thinking about it during their brutal 14 hour work day.  They did what they did because they loved horses and riding and cattle and it was good honest work that paid a living wage, and there was a bit of swagger to it - people in town recognized cow hands for the tough-as-leather men they were, especially with their characteristic boots and hats and general flair for the dramatic that many had.  But it was backbreaking work, and the entire cowboy heydey lasted less than 30 years.<br /><br />I said all that to say that \\"The Big Sky\\" really is about freedom, and really is about the West.  It's about the true, wild, primitive west, before the plow, before roads, when there were still huge, intact Indian cultures in place with armies of horsemen and enormous herds of buffalo.  So it's interesting to me that this genre is largely ignored, but I can see why - there are no set-piece plots just begging to be turned into movies - no \\"new sherriff in town\\" characters, because there are no sherriffs, and no towns other than a few trading posts.  There is only the land and the sky and the interaction between a few incredibly brave white men and all those Indians.<br /><br />If you don't already know, this is the story of Boone Caudill and his friend Jim Deakins, and several important side characters, but it's basically Boone's book.  He's driven west by an aching need for wildness and freedom, and is pushed out by a brutal father.  He makes his way west to St. Louis, along the way befriending Deakins, in hopes of meeting his uncle Zeb who had become a trapper years earlier.  The rest of the tail is complex and interlaced, and not a simplistic good guy/bad guy plot at all, and what stands out is the crystalline depictions of the people and places and over all, arching like the sky itself, is freedom.  Freedom to roam at will in that beautiful country is the main character of this book.  Freedom is the religion, the politics, the philosophy, the recreation - it is everything that is important.  The trappers are there to trap - sure - but they're really there because this is a wild, free place, where they will not be hampered by rules, where they can be natural men.  It sounds over romanticized, but it really did happen that way, and from what we know, that is truly the way they felt about their lives and why they endured the agonies of that existence.  Despairing that new settlers are moving west and building farms and towns, Boone cries \\"Lord, Jim - remember the Tetons standing proud in the sun, and the Seeds Ke Dee...don't you remember her when she was all purty and new and not a man track on her save Injun?\\"  This novel makes you sob like few I've ever read.  The sense of loss, the closing of an age of the world, hangs in the air like mist.  They are going to be the last to see something so precious, and for their pains they get to watch their world wither and die under the press of settlement.<br /><br />The movie \\"The Mountain Men\\" with Charleton Heston comes close to capturing a tiny bit of this book, and you can tell it's inspired in many ways by it, but no other book or film has ever comeclose to truly painting the world of the mountain man as has this novel.  \\"Jeremiah Johnson\\" is another good film, with many fine touches.  But if you want to follow the water up stream, back to its source in the mountains, then please, before you grow too old, read \\"The Big Sky\\" and open your heart to that time and place and the wild, brazen beauty of the America few Americans know ever existed.	2004-11-22
US	50836966	RX4797GJZNDNQ	0316111740	995294519	The Gang That Couldn't Shoot Straight: A Novel	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Esmo the driver, who was driving...	This is a painfully hilarious book.  Just after The Godfather, and long before the subsequent mafia deluge we would all see in books and movies, Jimmy Breslin created the worst crime family in the world, the hilarious Looking Glass image of the Corleones.  They're dangerous, sure, but usually only by accident, and as long as you're standing in front of their guns you'll be allright.  The Old Man is afraid his car is booby trapped, so every morning he has his wife start the engine for him.  Big Jelly Catalano has a stolen circus lion in his basement that he feeds his victims to.  An obituary for a gangster reads \\"He died of natural causes as his heart stopped suddenly when six men stuck knives into it.\\"  It's pretty over the top stuff, and not for the squeamish.  It's one of the few books I've read that made me laugh so hard my chest was sore the next day.  Highly recommended.	2004-11-21
US	50836966	R3E8OFMC2UN4OY	1561582727	392172884	The Toolbox Book: A Craftsman's Guide to Tool Chests, Cabinets, and Storage Systems	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	Prepare to be inspired.	I think this, along with \\"The Workbench Book\\" and Roy Underhill's fine offerings, ranks at the top tier of woodworking books to come out in our generation.  The lowly toolbox often gets short shrift in our thinking, and frankly most modern woodworkers don't need the sort of boxes our grandfathers had, but nothing displays pride in your trade quite as quickly as a beautiful tool box.  And that's what we get here - loads of gorgeous tool box ideas.  Starting with the (probable) first American toolbox, a sea chest brought over with the first settlers, we ascend to the glories of the 18th century cabinet makers like Chippendale, and then on into the modern era where all bets are off.  Some are rough and cabaple for taking on real job sites, others are fine furniture and too nice to really use. But any woodworker worth his salt will find inspiration in this enough to build a proper house for his tools to live in.	2004-11-19
US	50836966	R2KNMDAFD2OY4G	1561582700	311525358	The Workbench Book: A Craftsman's Guide to Workbenches for Every Type of Woodworking	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Vital reading for the woodworker.	And I do mean vital.  The workbench is often the red-headed stepchild of the modern shop.  We spend thousands of dollars on power tools we use once a year, and then when it comes to a workbench, we lay some plywood on cheap steel legs and proceed to spill paint all over it.  No other shop item is as vital to good work done efficiently as is the proper workbench.  But the fun of this book is trying to pin the tail on the donkey - what makes a \\"proper\\" bench? <br /> <br />The inspired touch of this book is to approach the subject chronologically - what's the oldest dedicated bench we know of?  By going back to the benches of the Renaissance, and one modern interpretation of their absolute minimalist simplicity, we can see the essence of \\"benchness\\", if such a thing exists.  The plainest of heavy tables, rock solid, for planing boards.  No vices please - just hold fasts.   <br /> <br />By starting off at this ground zero, all subsequent benches are placed in context.  Additional vices and features and fixtures are introduced and explained, and bit by bit we find ourselves in the modern workshops of people like Frank Klausz, with glorious benches that take the form to it's possible limit.  Vises are gone over in excrusiating detail, along with all the possible positions they can occur in.   <br /> <br />This is the most important of the 3 books (often sold as a boxed set) that discuss worbenches, toolboxes, and workshops.  Get this one first, and you'll refer to it constantly.  I've read it 3 times, cover to cover, and still find new things.	2004-11-19
US	50836966	R2LE33XLZ2EQDJ	0807840823	81403414	The Woodwright's Shop: A Practical Guide to Traditional Woodcraft	Books	5	58	60	N	N	What??? Only two reviews???	This is one of the finest things ever written!  I sincerely hope that a copy of this book lives on the shelf of everyone who has a love for tools and wood and what happens when the two come together.  Underhill gives us a look into the world of real hand tool woodworking - no electricity, please.  \\"Start with an axe and a tree and make first one thing and then another until you have a house and everything in it.\\"  It can be (almost) that simple, but you have to restore a fractured culture first, and also learn to speak the language of trees and wood and steel.  This book will accomplish both those aims.      Underhill, former Master Housewright at Colonial Williamsburg, did the amazing hat trick of turning something as offbeat and esoteric as pre-industrial woodworking into a highly successful career, and became a beloved personality and celebrity in the process.  When you read his books, you'll know how he did it.  Instantly, you get the sense that his deep affection for his trade, and the trades that support it, illuminates his life.  He \\"sees\\" things, he doesn't just look.  Like ripples in a stream allude to rocks below the surface, he looks at the bark of a tree and understands what lies within - twisted firewood or beautiful furniture?  Dissecting an old piece of furniture or part of a house tells you about the tools that made it, and the men who used the tools, and the community they lived in, and what their lives were like.  But all of this could be ponderous and self absorbed if it weren't infused front to back with an infectious sense of humor and a Tom Sawyer/Peter Pan view of the world, where if we're lucky we'll all get to run away and be pirates together.    Poetic, lyrical, sad, happy, this book has it all.  A true classic from an amazingly talented person.  Maybe the 60's hippy culture did ONE thing right - it gave us Roy Underhill, boy genius, and set him loose upon a (hopefully) grateful world.  His books, and the first two particularly, make a perfect gift for that tired, world weary person in your life who is thinking that there is something missing in his or her work, that their long days are filled with meaningless seeking, and who might like to turn their hands to something slower, calmer, more beautiful, and decidedly valuable for a change.	2004-11-19
US	50836966	R2P7AG2QMIORI6	1571572228	46876116	African Rifles & Cartridges	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	One of the finest hunting books ever written	John Taylor's masterpiece - the definitive work on African hunting from a technical perspective.  And even though his experience is nearly 100 years old now, it's still as fresh as yesterday, because the rifles and cartridges really haven't changed much.  Craig Boddington's important work on the same subject is truly current, but you won't miss a beat if you just go by what Old Pondoro says.   <br /> <br />But that's not the book's real glory - anyone can publish ballistic data and shooting tips.  What Taylor does is to back up his opinions with some of the most exciting hunting literature ever jotted down by lantern light.  He's a wonderful writer, with an easy flowing style that grabs you and takes you along.  He saw and did things that noone else will ever again do or see, and in a sense saw the last of the old Africa pre WW2, and brings it alive.  He tells you that the .577 NE is just the perfect thing for elephant, and has a couple of tales to prove it.  Or how about the .375 H&H as a long range caliber?  Well, did he ever tell you about the time that...  It sounds contrived, but it isn't.   <br /> <br />I can't put this book down, and approach it with caution because I know if I crack it open it'll be like saying \\"Jumanji\\" 3 times - the next thing you know hours have passed and there's a lion in your kitchen, licking the butter.  Absolutely a desert island book, and one of the first to go in the lifeboat.	2004-11-19
US	50836966	R2VBOP4MOIS1OY	1561582719	921620227	The Workshop Book: A Craftman's Guide to Making the Most of Any Work Space	Books	3	25	28	N	N	Read it in the bookstore before you buy it.	I did, and decided I didn't need it.  There is good advice here - lots of input on space requirements and lighting, but page after page, I was just left wanting something more.  The shops don't look \\"real\\" to me - they are obviously tremendously expensive and usually look sterile and impersonal.  The men in them don't seem to particularly enjoy their work.  They all look like a bunch of New York attorneys working in their hobby shops at their Connecticut hobby farms.  I know that's not a fair characterization, and was certainly not the intent, but it was my persistent gut reaction.  Too many of them looked like Norm Abram's infamous shop where there was a power tool for every purpose.  None of them had the warm, inviting glow of Roy Underhill's shop, which draws you in for a cup of tea and joke by the woodstove.    \\"The Workbench Book\\" and \\"The Toolbox Book\\" were both joyful and gorgeous and pulled me along, but this one just made me feel like I needed to tear my shop down and start over, although that was not what the author was hoping to achieve.  But look at it for yourself, at the library, and see what you think, before you buy it.	2004-11-19
US	50836966	R1LE0HD326ZMSV	0140259198	782566565	The Island of the Day Before	Books	3	27	37	N	N	Umberto Eco is smarter than you...	...I can say that with near certainty.  His professional field is the esoteric world of semiotics, or basically the science and philosophy of symbols - the same sort of thing that Dan Brown called \\"symbology\\" in his pathetic novels.  That being said, it's easy to see in Eco's writing an intense affection for mystery, for illusion, for double and treble meanings, for duplicity, for hairpin turn endings.  \\"The Island...\\" tells two stories, one of a young man's meandering life through the pitfalls of a Renaissance existence, and the other the surreal set piece of a man, suddenly awakening on a stranded ship, with a strange island in the distance.  He doesn't know how he got there, where he is, or how to get home.  Either of these tales might make really entertaining novellas, but these two odd birds are joined at the hip by making the main character the same man.  And to confuse us more, we segue back and forth between the stories, keeping us always off balance slightly.  About two thirds of the way through, it simply became more work than it was worth to hang on to this heeling ship of a novel, but I plowed ahead to the ending, eager for the release.      If all this makes it sound like a wasted reading experience, I assure you it wasn't.  Very few people can put you in the past quite as effectively as Eco (Patrick O'Brian can actually do it better) and I saw this world in such vivid color it nearly made me blink.  I didn't have to invent faces or accents for the characters, they leapt off the page.  Eco's writing is luxuriant, erudite, expansive - you will either learn a lot of new words or quit looking them up after a while - and I can't imagine a better read to really take you completely out of your present existence and plunk you down someplace entirely new and very strange, much like our protagonist found himself.  It's just that, for all the sound and fury, not a lot seems to really happen, and at the end of the day I felt that I wanted something that wasn't there.  Perfect vacation or travel-time reading.	2004-11-19
US	50836966	R1OXUYYRHBIQXZ	0060544244	302318107	The O'Reilly Factor for Kids: A Survival Guide for America's Families	Books	5	57	97	N	N	Look...	...this is traditional, socially conservative advice for young people from a traditional, socially conservative man.  The difference is that Bill O'Reilly is a highly effective communicator, with a pithy style that cuts to the heart of the matter.  Those who act shocked at this realization are being disengenuous.  (They would probably adore a pithy, punchy book by Al Franken on the same topic.)  Look at the table of contents - chapter titles are all one word, each on one topic, bunched together according to how they effect a child's life.  Divorce, music, friends, money, God, bullies, school...these are the things that make kids tick.  Not peace, not the environment, not fairness, not ethnocentrism, not the global village, as many adults fantasize.  O'Reilly's advice is honest and sometimes blunt, but then that's what's going to get through to a busy, harried child, perhaps one who takes turns living with each parent while they fight out custody and one of them goes through bankruptcy.  All but a few kids lead pretty tough lives, under seige from their peers and the media to be one thing and from (hopefully) their families and churches to be something else, and don't think they don't feel the squeeze.  Add in often immature, ineffective parents, overburdened schools, uncaring and shackled courts and you have the makings for a kid's hell on earth.  O'Reilly knows this and just wants to send up a flare for the kids unlucky enough not to get this advice first hand from their own parents, but lucky enough to maybe come across this book in the library or get it as a gift.  I wish I had been able to read something like this as a young person - it would probably have saved me much wandering in the darkness.       And another thing: to the reviewer who doubts that a \\"moralistic\\" book could be appropriate for children, I ask: what would you prefer?  Immoral?  Amoral?  Just because you aren't comfortable with the notions of moral right and wrong doesn't mean they go away at your bidding, or cease to be the prime movers for most of human history.  Right and wrong, and their consequences, are the primary lessons you have to give to your children, and a moral rudder is the greatest tool a human being can have in this world.	2004-11-02
US	50836966	R3LYRABM7D361V	0767913795	695997885	Who's Looking Out for You?	Books	5	13	19	N	N	Good quick read on life and how to live it.	This is Bill's Big Book of Advice, basically: how to live your life so that you have no regrets, and that doesn't mean making all your fantasies come true, either.  Work, faith, friends, family, nation, home, all get discussed and debated in an almost terse style that gets the point across quickly.  It's much less about conservative versus liberal than it is traditional versus \\"progressive\\".  Highly politicized reviews below miss the boat - they aren't really talking about this book as much as they're grinding their own axes.  Bill's best piece of advice: If you don't have at least 3 friends who would walk into a knife fight for you, then you need to SERIOUSLY reassess the way you're living your life.  It's that kind of book, with that sort of harsh advice.  But then we live in harsh times.  Far superior to the books of other radio/TV personalities who basically just published transcripts of their shows.	2004-11-02
US	50836966	R3UO7UFU0G3WL4	0946688168	831728459	How to Make a Treadle Operated Wood-Turning Lathe (Workshop Equipment Manual)	Books	4	17	17	N	Y	Fine for what it is.	I bought this hoping it would describe traditional treadle lathes, but it is in fact a very clear and practical set of instructions for welding up a steel treadle lathe.  The lathe would probably work just fine, and should be worth the effort.  Intended for third world outreach programs or missionary efforts to enable people to have a lathe that doesn't require electricity.  Like I said, entirely practical but definitely not Roy Underhill and the Woodwright's Shop.	2004-08-29
US	50836966	RHUKHKWQNVEP7	0767911857	603654344	A Long Strange Trip: The Inside History of the Grateful Dead	Books	3	41	46	N	N	Official but hardly definitive	This is a troubled book.  For one thing, you've read most of it already if you've read the other 4 or 5 important books on the band that have come out since Garcia's death.  He quotes liberally from all of them, including the hilarious but scarcely dependable \\"Living With the Dead\\" by Rock Scully.  In fact, that's probably where you need to start - with Scully's book.  For fun, to remind yourself that it was all about fun after all.  Then treat yourself to one of the best biographies you'll ever read with \\"Garcia\\", then get a look at the dark underbelly with \\"Dark Star\\", and you'll begin to get a sense of the big stories from at least 3 perspectives.  Then if you still need more read \\"A Long Strange Trip\\" to patch in the cracks.  McNally's unbalanced but highly detailed work provides loads of names, dates, places, addresses, etc.; enough to keep trivia buffs and collectors busy for years.  But the big questions (you know the ones) will still go maddeningly unanswered.  I cynically opine in my idle hours that this is because access to The Band is still probably limited to those who don't kick up too much dust, like it always was.  The Grateful Dead is still one of the most potent social and musical phenomena of the post war period, and their influence continues to echo (ripple?) throughout countless millions of lives, and will for the next several thousand years.  (Stop and think about it.  There will be Deadheads 1000 years from now.)  This is a good but not great look into the origins of that organism.	2004-08-19
US	50836966	R2B9F0XILU1KB1	0071559396	203452576	Wood and Canvas Kayak Building	Books	4	26	26	N	Y	Good for what it is	This is not traditional kayak building. It is modern, &quot;Popular Mechanics&quot; style kayak building, which means the boat will be fine for what it is, but overbuilt, too heavy, and basically nothing like the sleek racy craft that it could be. The design and construction is suited for the amateur builder who wants as little of a woodworking challenge as possible, which makes it perfect for a project to build with kids. A parent and child could have great fun building a boat such as this. So, keeping that in mind, it's just fine. For real kayak building in the traditional manner see Cunningham's &quot;Building the West Greenland Kayak&quot;, or Morris's &quot;Building Skin on Frame Boats&quot;.	2004-07-31
US	50836966	R3SHS6T7LM2T43	0071392378	672548004	Building the Greenland Kayak : A Manual for Its Contruction and Use	Books	5	29	29	N	Y	Excellent - the one guide you need	If you are interested in building a traditional, relatively authentic West Greenland ocean kayak, one of the most gorgeous watercraft ever built, this is your book. Cunningham lays out the task from beginning to end with clarity and wit, and the process is topped off with explanations and plans for traditional paddling gear such as floats and tuiliks, the one piece &quot;dry suits&quot; that fit over the coaming. The book can be confusing in places, but this rests in large part on the fact that the measurements are anthropometric in nature. There can't be measured drawings for something that is going to be different for every person. The kayak you build will be completely custom made to fit you, and noone else, so he can't get too energetic with the tape measure. What you do get are step by step explanations for HOW you arrive at those measurements, so that you can make boats for yourself and anyone else. The frame is pretty authentic, other than that dimensioned lumber is used - you would have trouble telling a drawing of this frame from a drawing of an original Inuit frame. Of course the big departure is the skin, which in our case is not seal skin but rather ballistic nylon and two part polyurethane dope. Not traditional, but gorgeous, waterproof and long lasting. You can expect to get 10 years out of a well cared for boat - not bad for a boat you built yourself in a few weekends, for about the cost of a good touring paddle. If you're looking for a quicky project, or one that you can knock together out of plywood with the Scout Troop, look elsewhere. But if you're looking for the real deal, you've found it. Highly recommended.	2004-07-31
US	50836966	R3T4YHRTACBLRR	0805002391	204040400	The Old Man and the Boy	Books	5	51	53	N	Y	6 stars	This book is glimpse back into an America that is rapidly vanishing. Robert Ruark can rightly be considered the dean of serious sporting writers. Gene Hill is very good, but only wrote short pieces. Hemingway was vaster, but his angst and internal gordian knot muddy the clear waters. Ruark walks the top rail of the fence: you get the very best of it all. And nowhere does he do it better than in his two &quot;Old Man and the Boy&quot; collections. Others here have said it, but there are stories here that will break your heart clean in two with their aching beauty, their crystal clear images, the smells and tastes of a life spent in rural North Carolina before television. My personal favorite is &quot;September Song&quot;, which is, along with &quot;The Road to Tinkhamtown&quot;, one of the two or three finest pieces of American sporting literature ever put down. Any appreciation for American sporting literature must begin with Ruark, and any study of Ruark must begin with the Old Man. Without him, you'll never grasp &quot;Horn of the Hunter&quot;, or even &quot;Uhuru&quot; or &quot;Something of Value&quot;. The Old Man is the key to all the locks.  Favorite quote: &quot;Only hunting and mountain climbing are sports. The rest are just games.&quot;	2004-07-31
US	50836966	R35CXASNZZ28CN	0684163225	369552918	Of Wolves and Men	Books	5	47	49	N	N	Wonderful.	A group of school children was asked to each draw a picture of a wolf.  They all drew the typical savage dog-like monster, complete with huge teeth, bloody fangs, demonic eyes, the works.  Then an animal handler brought a real wolf into the classroom, on a leash.  They were awestruck, and took turns patting it as it was led around the room and introduced to them all.  Afterwards, they were again asked to draw a picture of a wolf.  This time, the picture was of wolves with big, kind eyes - and enormous, outsized feet.  No fangs, no blood.  <br />  That's what this book will do to the casual reader, show you the wolf you don't know, and adjust your preconceptions about the wolf you THINK you know.  A marvelous achievement; must reading.	2004-04-28
US	50836966	RJP13U0L89RQS	0375727485	301736214	Arctic Dreams	Books	5	81	87	N	N	Desert Island book	Funny that a book about the Arctic would be on my &quot;Desert Island&quot; list, but this is one of the most effecting things I've read in my life.  It's one thing to write a book about a region that explains it to the reader.  It's quite another thing to write a book about a region that truly makes you feel as if you are there, that you understand it, that you &quot;get it&quot;.  The Eskimos have something like 25 words for snow.  They can draw incredibly detailed maps of coastlines, from memory.  On and on, the people and places are introduced to you, like visitors to your home, and you really begin to understand what it is to live in such a cold, beautiful place.  The story of one Eskimo hunter will never leave me: he was hunting, and somehow became stranded on a broken off piece of ice.  It floated away, with him on it, into the mist.  All he had was his knife, made of bone.  His friends searched for him, to no avail, and he was given up for dead.  But he came back, years later, in a kayak he'd made, fully outfitted with warm clothes he'd also made, fat and happy and completely in tune with his environment, absolutely as at home there as the polar bear.  He could make everything he needed, just from what this supposedly &quot;barren&quot; wasteland provided.  That may not sound like much, but put yourself in his shoes (or mukluks) and you'll begin to feel the cold and the quiet close in around you.  <br />That's what this book does for you.  It puts you there.	2004-04-28
US	50836966	RK4ESLPBKK3H3	1572332328	454662254	Tennessee Rivers: A Paddler'S Guidebook (Outdoor Tennessee Series)	Books	4	14	14	N	Y	An excellent starting point	I am not a very experienced paddler, but I've been to a lot of the places listed in this good new book while fishing or hiking, etc.  The author has included most every piece of water big enough to put a boat on, with good summaries of the rivers.  But they're just summaries.  The maps are excellent, but they aren't very detailed.  Put in and take out information is brief and often lacking in the detail needed to actually find them. (For instance, this is the sort of thing you get: &quot;Most put-ins are on private property, so you'll have to be careful.&quot;)<br /> What this book does very well is give you a good overview of all the paddling to be found in the state, with good maps and a few paragraphs about each river.  From there, you'll need to break out the Tennessee Atlas and Gazetteer and the USGS Topos and really start to work.  But it tells you that the rivers are there, where they are, their class ratings, etc. so you'll know where to head next.  For a beginner, that's good, in my opinion.  We don't need to be going alone, and this book makes it so that you'll have to look further for more information on most of the rivers, ideally a canoeing or paddling club.  One of the best is the TVCC, or Tenn. Valley Canoeing Club, which you can find easily on the 'net if you're heading this way.	2004-04-03
US	50836966	RQPRZDBMYAX3C	0618257594	396726984	J.R.R. Tolkien: Author of the Century	Books	5	18	21	N	Y	The primary criticism of these great works	This book is quite simply the seminal criticism and analysis of Tolkien's major works.  Shippey is Tolkien's successor at Oxford, and in a very real sense &quot;speaks the language&quot; (no pun intended) that Tolkien spoke.  He is able to disassemble and analyze Tolkien's writings in a way that is head and shoulders above any other similar works.  His linguistic and literary analysis is the best ever made and is absolutely vital to truly understanding Middle Earth and the man that made it.  Add to that a brief but very profound analysis of the religious themes, imagery, and inferences that is better than anything else out there (it completely surpasses Joseph Pearce's fine book on Tolkien, all in less than 10 pages.) Plus you'll get the most insightful discussion of the Anglo Saxon and Old Norse literary traditions and characters that would become Gandalf, Frodo, and the rest of the Fellowship.<br /> If you truly love Tolkien's writing, then you simply must read this book.  It is the first most important step in a real understanding of what Middle Earth is, where it is, where its characters came from, and what happened to them in ways that will really open your mind to the vastness and incredible beauty of Tolkien's world.  After reading it, you'll have even less patience with the lunkheads who think LOTR is just another fantasy story.  It's so, so much more than that.<br />  And if that wasn't enough, you'll learn what Beowulf's name would mean in modern English.  (&quot;Beowulf&quot; is usually the only word in the poem not translated, in case you haven't noticed.)	2004-03-17
US	50836966	REIXSZDDL0HNL	0895552108	768664945	The Dolorous Passion of Our Lord Jesus Christ: From the Visions of Anne Catherine Emmerich	Books	4	85	102	N	N	Fascinating glimpse into the mind of a stigmatic mystic	Ann Catherine Emmerich basically dictated this from her sick bed, after a painful life of her own, one full of toil and disappointment and sorrow.  Does this better prepare one for mysticism?  This is one of several examples of the phenomenon of the Catholic stigmatic driven to extacy and visions by a life of brutal effort and constant prayer.  I leave it to the reader to judge the actual truth of their experiences. <br />  First let me say that I do believe that the Passion occurred much as it is explained here, but then it is explained here much as it was in the Gospels, with a few variations.  The interesting thing about this book is that it actually does read like an eye witness account.  For instance: the house where the Last Supper occurred was (according to Emmerich) owned by Joseph of Arimathia and Nicodemus, who used it as both an office for their stone working business as well as renting the main room out for Passover meals during that season.  In times past it was used as a training facility during the time of King David, and the Ark of the Covenant was stored in a basement room awaiting completion of the temple.  The room is described very clearly and logically, and after a while you get a chill as though you are actually seeing the actual events take place. <br /> But then she tips her hand, and it seems we are only dealing with someone in an advanced state of mental fatigue, suffering pleasant delusions.  The chalice that was to be used, (it turns out) is a priceless heirloom left over from the original Temple, and it was never melted down and reused because it was made of - not gold - but some other, miraculous metal that couldn't be melted.  It also seems that this chalice was in fact a small dinner service with 6 other smaller cups, a detachable base, a spoon that slipped into a hidden recess, all packaged in a leather carrier.  Sort of a Swiss Army knife of chalices.  Not only that, but it was brought with Noah on the ark to escape the flood.  <br/>  So it was difficult for me to get completely lost in the narrative as it seemed clear that much of it was what psychiatrists call &quot;confabulation&quot;, or adding one detail on top of another until things get preposterous.  The scourging and crucifixion scenes are horrendous, and I don't doubt that the original event was probably something similar.  But it should be borne in mind that the point of Roman crucifixion was just that...a proper public crucifixion to show the masses who was in charge.  A scourging as brutal as the one described here would have killed any man, and Christ was fully man (and fully God.)  He would have been unable to walk from blood loss, and would have simply passed out and died there at the pillar, with no subsequent crucifixion necessary or possible. <br /> I do believe that people like Emmerich are special - through prayer and hardship they slowly leave the earthly plane and attain something like a middle level between earth and heaven, and it's quite possible that they can be allowed to see things the rest of us aren't worthy to see.  It's also possible that weak, delusional people can be whipped into a frenzy by their &quot;handlers&quot; who are eagerly writing down every word they say, and the truth gets embroidered to the point that it's difficult to tell fact from fantasy.  But it doesn't really matter.  What matters is that books like this make us think: about Christ's Passion, about our prayer lives, about the work that WE should be doing to try to attain something like sainthood in this modern life.  If it does that, the book is well worth the price.	2004-02-10
US	50836966	R3FRJ3H15KU1NQ	0933932545	195160572	The Way	Books	2	109	157	N	N	Puzzling...	I bought this because I was interested in Opus Dei.  I am a devout Catholic and was interested in becoming a member of this group, and wanted to know more.  Their website isn't much help - little information is contained there.  I kept reading (from non-Church sources) that they are basically a secret cult within the Church, and when I tried to contact them they said I had to live near one of their main centers (Houston, D.C., etc.) in order to become a member.  So, I bought \\"The Way\\", written by the founder of Opus Dei.<br /><br />  Josemaria Escriva was a Spanish priest who founded Opus Dei in the 1930's, and after a few decades it became an enormously powerful and wealthy organization.  They are now a personal prelature of the Church, and I still haven't found a good definition of what that is.  There are plenty of anti-Catholic conspiracy theorists out there, and I don't want to add fuel to their fires, but it strikes me that perhaps some of the things I've heard about Opus Dei are true - that it's basically a secret society, that you don't know what you're getting into until you're in it, and that once you're in they try a little too hard to keep you in.  I love The Church and am devoted to it, but I don't doubt that the above is true.<br /><br />  If \\"The Way\\" is anything to judge by, Father Escriva was a pretty odd and fierce guy.  For one thing, the book is merely a collection of random thoughts, basically grouped into chapters such as \\"Prayer\\" or \\"Character\\".  Within each chapter are a few dozen little one or two sentence epithets.  Some are as long as a paragraph.  Most of them are profoundly un-inspiring.  I would say only about half of them mention Christ.  Some of them are worth remembering, thus the 2 star rating, but many of them are basically no more than this sort of thing (I paraphrase): \\"You are lazy and foolish...when are you going to get it together and get on with your life?\\"  Or something cheerful like \\"No matter how hard you try, you can still do more.\\"  It reads like a bitter, barely literate \\"Dao De Ching\\", except that the Dao is much more inspiring, even though it isn't Christian.  I read them and just scratched my head...was this guy serious?  I think part of the problem may well be that they are poorly translated from Spanish.  The English syntax is poor, the punctuation irregular, and often the meanings of many sentences are completely opaque.  There are sentence fragments that leave you scratching your head.  One of the epithets really stumped me. \\"Are there no real men left?  Why do we have nothing but...bellies?\\"  I didn't know what to make of that one.  And I didn't know what to make of dozens of others.  All in all the book left me feeling foolish and confused.  I felt as though I was being yelled at by someone with a poor command of English.<br /><br />  If his writing is anything to go by, I don't think Father Escriva was a terribly erudite man.  It's quite easy to toss off a little book like this.  With random disjointed thoughts, you don't need to even construct a decent paragraph, or develop an argument, or a complex point.  You can just throw verbal cream pies at your reader.  All of which gives me the funny feeling, at the back of my brain, that Opus Dei is really pretty weird after all.  I do not intend to look further into joining them, nor do I intend to read any more of this man's writing.  I don't doubt his sanctity.  But with all the wonderful, uplifting Catholic writing out there (Aquinas, Augustine, etc.) why would I spend my time on an oddity like this?  I don't see how you could start a movement like Opus Dei based on the thought contained in here, unless the movement really ISN'T based on the thought here but reather something else, which I fear may be the truth of the matter.It reads like a bitter, barely literate \\"Dao De Ching\\", except that the Dao is much more inspiring, even though it isn't Christian.  I read them and just scratched my head...was this guy serious?  I think part of the problem may well be that they are poorly translated from Spanish.  The English syntax is poor, the punctuation irregular, and often the meanings of many sentences are completely opaque.  There are sentence fragments that leave you scratching your head.  One of the epithets really stumped me. \\"Are there no real men left?  Why do we have nothing but...bellies?\\"  I didn't know what to make of that one.  And I didn't know what to make of dozens of others.  All in all the book left me feeling foolish and confused.  I felt as though I was being yelled at by someone with a poor command of English.        If his writing is anything to go by, I don't think Father Escriva was a terribly erudite man.  It's quite easy to toss off a little book like this.  With random disjointed thoughts, you don't need to even construct a decent paragraph, or develop an argument, or a complex point.  You can just throw verbal cream pies at your reader.  All of which gives me the funny feeling, at the back of my brain, that Opus Dei is really pretty weird after all.  I do not intend to look further into joining them, nor do I intend to read any more of this man's writing.  I don't doubt his sanctity.  But with all the wonderful, uplifting Catholic writing out there (Aquinas, Augustine, etc.) why would I spend my time on an oddity like this?  I don't see how you could start a movement like Opus Dei based on the thought contained in here, unless the movement really ISN'T based on the thought here but reather something else, which I fear may be the truth of the matter.	2004-02-08
US	50836966	R19UMZZC6B7OF	0786867728	157959539	Sister Karol's Book of Spells and Blessings	Books	1	14	39	N	N	A witch nun's get rich scheme	...is the first thing that popped into my head when I saw this in the bookstore.  How despicable.  A Catholic nun, a woman supposedly sworn to the service and prayerful devotion of Christ concocting this pagan nonsense.  I spent a fair amount of time reading over it - (there isn't much here, don't expect much of a read) and slammed it down with disgust.  But then I looked deeper into the author and some of her other writings and it's plain what's at work here.  Buy it if you need airy fairy feel good nonsensical pap for your jaded post modern mind grown too cynical for true religion.  All others save your money.	2004-01-30
US	50836966	R3IAK9Y2M205FT	0786885475	293241639	Ten Fun Things to Do Before You Die	Books	1	7	55	N	N	More pagan claptrap	Someone's dreams are coming true when you read this, and it won't be yours.  It'll be the woman who wrote this silly pagan mess in the first place.  This book is not aimed at Catholics or serious protestant Christians - it is aimed at the bland, cynical post modern reader (in this case female, with a disordered fascination for witchcraft) who quickly snaps up Oprah's next book club selection.  That a nun would write this is painful.  That it would be proudly published is shameful.	2004-01-30
US	50836966	R1VZ4TCW4Q1H60	0898700248	188210682	The Restoration of Christian Culture	Books	5	33	34	N	Y	Here you go...	...everything you need to know about restoring integrity and substance to bland, decadent post modern existence.  John Senior's two books \\"The Death of...\\" and \\"The Resurrection of Christian Culture\\" might be summed up as \\"Peter Kreeft on steroids.\\"  By which I take nothing from the good Dr. Kreeft, but with Senior you get the medicine with very little sugar to help it down.  Fierce, unapologetic Catholic thought, written in a style that feels very much like it might have come from the 1890 - 1930 period, but it was in fact written in the 60's and 70's, and is very current and cogent.  Hard to find but very worth it, highly recommended, essential reading for those who think that there is something missing in modern culture.  If you like Chesterton, get this while you can find a copy.  Get two copies, and give one to a very good friend.	2004-01-27
US	50836966	R3246IWFIPT8UA	0898707315	365999876	A Refutation of Moral Relativism: Interviews with an Absolutist	Books	5	28	35	N	Y	Lots of meat on the bones	This little book, the plot and premise of which you can read elsewhere, is a terrific introduction to the concept of moral relativism versus absolutism for anyone who wondered if you could be a firm believer in right and wrong, good and evil, and still be a nice person.  (Answer: you really can't do it any other way.)  But what's more, it is a great intro for a young person to the joys and stimulations of the greatest game there is in the world, the fierce but loving logical argument among friends.  &quot;Why do you believe that to be true?&quot;  is something many young people never ask their friends these days, and deep thinking and friendly argument supporting or attacking various positions has been supplanted with more popular entertainments.  But if you know a young person, or an old one, who needs a good lesson in how to argue and debate, how to open their mind up and wrap it around a subject and take it apart and put it back together again, I can't think of a better intro off hand.  Bravo, Dr. Kreeft.	2004-01-21
US	50836966	R1P1OA6NSBMXC3	0312186134	165242153	Death in the Long Grass: A Big Game Hunter's Adventures in the African Bush	Books	5	69	70	N	N	READ CAPSTICK!!	There are adventure stories written by writers who were occasional adventurers (Conrad, Ruark, Hemingway), and there are adventure stories written by those who were only writers (Orwell, a million others,) and then there are a tiny number of adventure stories written by professional adventurers who also *luckily* happen to be brilliant writers.  Peter Hathaway Capstick is the chief of this tribe, which includes John Taylor and a couple of others.  This is a general review of all his writing, and so I won't get too specific, but it isn't a stretch at all to say that this is the finest, most exciting, most frightening, most eloquent writing ever done on the hunting experience, on hunting in Africa, and perhaps on what happens at that moment when man \\"goes back on the menu\\" after being off of it for a measley thousand years or so.  <br />  Capstick was a stock broker turned hunting organizer turned (through a curcuitous route) to being a PH or professional hunter in Africa, and then had the skill and the will to set it all down.  I have never had more riveting reading experiences than when he tells of having to shoot a big bull elephant (driven mad drunk after eating morula fruit) in bush so thick that he was actually 5 feet from the elephant before he saw it.  Or of his friend Corporal Katwindi, the African tribesman who was killed trying to save his life.  Or of stalking a black mamba that had killed a boy.  This particular story includes the three most chilling words I've read in a long time: as he comes around a bend in the river bank, he sees the dead child (bitten on the lower lip) horribly swollen and disfigured, his face contorted in agony from the mamba bite.  \\"Oh my, yes.\\"  Capstick says, and nothing else need be said.  He was there, at that point where the line between life and death gets so horribly thin and transparent, and he's able to come back from it and tell it to you so that you feel the same goose flesh he felt, the same clutching fear, the same doubt about your courage, the same desire to run screaming back to your office job.  <br />  You'll laugh, too.  \\"There may be something more exciting than lion hunting, but I don't have her phone number any more.\\"  Or the story of the African camp steward who had slavishly dedicated himself to learning English to impress the clients, (by overhearing phrases and memorizing their meanings) and while wearing a crisp starched uniform, snaps to a British salute in front of the distinguished safari couple and tells the lady \\"Tea is ready, darling.\\"  His ability to find, and bring back, wonderful humor from gruelling experiences, like when his skin basically rotted off his feet during the rainy season, will not soon be forgotten. <br />  One of the most memorable aspects of his writing is his deep respect and affection for the African natives that he admired so much, and the few that he was proud to call his friends.  He is quick to point out that any perceived inadequacies on their part are strictly cultural, not racial, and he was in awe of their abilities in their world.  One old man could not, for the life of him, to save his soul, be taught how to flick a disposable cigarette lighter so that it would light.  The little thumb roll that we do without thinking completely evaded him.  His hands just wouldn't do it, couldn't do it.  So he stuck it in his ear hole.  This same man could smell elephants miles away and could track game over bare rock, could look at a broken leaf and tell what animal did it and when, leaving Capstick in awe.  As impossible as the lighter was to him, this incredible oneness with the natural world was ultimately impossible for Capstick, and for us all. <br />  That's enough for now.  If you are reading this review, you probably already have one or more of PHC's books.  But if, on the off chance, you don't, then do yourself a favor and get as many as you can, and I dare you to try to put them down.  They are that good.  Better literature than Hemingway?  Probably not.  Probably not as profound as Ruark.  But he has them all trumped when your knuckles are white with fear, and beads of sweat pop out on your brow, and you try to remember...did I chamber one, or not?  And there's a soft crunch in the leaves ahead, and then we're back to what is most elemental: predator and prey, and which of us is which is entirely up for grabs.  <br />  Thanks, Peter.  Gone but not forgotten.	2004-01-08
US	50836966	R3A7PONCSEQ5WD	0940143496	363472296	Safari Rifles: Doubles, Magazine Rifles, and Cartridges for African Hunting	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The definitive modern book on the subject	This is the complete work on the hunting rifle in Africa, period.  This and Boddington's &quot;American Hunting Rifles&quot; make a two volume masterwork that completely covers the modern hunting rifle in all its forms.  This book is unique in that it includes a fascinating poll of modern African professional hunters, what they use, what they want their clients to use, etc. etc.  Fascinating statistics.  Essential reading for Africa.  Also essential in its own way is John Taylor's &quot;African Rifles and Cartridges&quot;, and you need to read both.	2004-01-07
US	50836966	R25Z5ODGAUEBRI	0071376429	524994211	The Sailmaker's Apprentice: A Guide for the Self-Reliant Sailor	Books	5	42	42	N	Y	Helping you to be self sufficient	This wonderful book isn't intended to teach you about modern, complex, computer designed sails, or how to make them.  Marino wants you to be able to repair and maintain your sails yourself.  He wants you to understand how to sew a flat tabling, how to stick a cringle, how to sew on a boltrope.  If you are adventurous, he will tell you how to completely make a sail for your boat, one that will last many, many years, but frankly very few people will ever make their own sails.  But starting with a great beginner's project, the ditty bag, he shows you that traditional sailmaking is just a collection of readily understandable tasks, and then the repetition of those tasks, done with care and patience.  Highly welcome and recommended in this age of multiple laminate fabrics and computer designed sails cut out by lasers.  If that's what sailing is to you, look elsewhere.	2003-12-04
US	50836966	R2F277YBOSY59V	0937822671	792079699	The Gaff Rig Handbook: History, Design, Techniques, Developments	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Brilliant definitive treatise	I thought I understood gaff rig until I got into this incredible book.  It truly is the definitive text on the subject.  Be warned - this is not necessarily an easy book to read.  It is dense, profound stuff, and there are many places that will stop you in your tracks as you read paragraphs over and over, trying to tease out and understand all the multilayered detail.  But once it's accomplished, the lights go on, and you have a new understanding that a more &quot;readable&quot; treatment would never have afforded.  The illustrations are marvelous, whether it's the crisp, highly detailed line drawings of rig details or the wonderful rare old photographs of the glory days of this marvelous rig.  Truly a must read. And it isn't just a tribute to the racing yachts - this is a book of working sail, where men's lives and livelihoods depended on their watercraft.  <br /> Also highly recommended is &quot;Hand Reef and Steer&quot;, by Tom Cunliffe, which is a much more readable and user friendly text for the gaff rig owner/sailor	2003-12-04
US	50836966	R23JWORTTBD3YA	0901281948	339199736	Hand Reef and Steer: Traditional Sailing, Skills for Classic Boats	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Get it while you can	This and the other great book on gaff rig, Leather's &quot;Gaff Rig Handbook&quot; seem to take turns being unobtainable.  Grab both while you have the chance.  Cunliffe's is the easier of the two to read, with more modern illustrations and color photographs.  The text is not so dense, not so richly detailed, but don't sell it short - it contains a tremendous amount of information.  Cunliffe covers all the bases, explaining why gaff rig is so incredibly practical, efficient, and safe, why it was so highly thought of, what led to its demise.  He covers all aspects of sailing, sail handling, heavy weather tactics, all in a highly readable and enjoyable style.  This is a user's manual for working gaff rig, one that will make you ache to be out there.  Plus, hopefully, it will lead to the building or restoration of more gaff rigged sailboats, which can only make the world a better place.  <br /> If you are new to gaff rig and want to rapidly become a hopeless devotee, then get Cunliffe.  Once you are a lost soul and there's no hope for you, get Leather to fill in all the detail you'll be thirsting for.	2003-12-04
US	50836966	R1XUZ1AHIRNFAN	0070648409	589928520	The Complete Rigger's Apprentice: Tools and Techniques for Modern and Traditional Rigging	Books	5	28	31	N	N	The only thing like it for traditional craft	Brion Toss has become &quot;da man&quot; in modern rigging in many ways, and a lot of that is attributable to this great book.  It's a big, thick thing, loaded with information, not all of it easily absorbed on the first read.  It's meant to give you a firm grounding in what rigging is, what it does, and how to inspect and maintain your own rig, how to adjust it, how to replace worn sections.  Will it tell you everything you need to know to design a rig from the ground up on a serious racing yacht?  Heck, no.  It isn't meant to.  What this book does is give you the tools you need to approach your own rig without fear and trembling - to realize that, after all, it's just a bunch of parts, and that you can comprehend and work with those parts, understand their roles, and get the most from your boat.  Will you be forever independant of professional riggers?  Probably not.  But it goes a long way toward making that a realizable goal, if you apply yourself.  And it should be known that this book is especially strong on traditional rigs, the more traditional the better.  You'll learn how to worm, parcel, and serve, how to lace deadeyes, and why galvanized is great and stainless isn't stainless. And if that last sentence frightens you, you're probably not in the intended demographic.  Rod rigging and carbon fiber masts are mentioned, at best, in passing, and largely for comic relief.  Keep that in mind.  Makes an absolutely perfect companion to Marino's &quot;Sailmaker's Apprentice.&quot;	2003-12-04
US	50836966	R3W0ZOSCQN2IFP	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	2	7	15	N	N	I fail to see the attraction	This is a very pedestrian action caper, written on about the college freshman level.  Parts of it are so badly written, with such laughable dialogue, that I turned my head and winced.  To its credit it's (mercifully) very quickly paced with a reasonably amusing little treasure hunt and some fun puzzles.  But that's it.  Plus we're asked to be nostalgic for pre-Christian paganism, which (from everything we know) was an absolutely horrible point in human civilization.  (Human sacrifice, anyone?)  All that rot about The Goddess, as though this was a period in history we would wish to return to, if only we had our heads screwed on straight, and hadn't been lied to by the Catholic Church.  What nonsense.  I would like to do a word search and see how many times the phrase &quot;sacred feminine&quot; appears in this book, but it must be at least 100.  Once the puzzles were figured out, I just wanted the characters to go away, and couldn't care less if they all went to prison, won the lottery, or fell off a cliff.  If you set the bar pretty low, you might enjoy this, but I'll not read anything else he's done.  I could write better than this when I was in High School.	2003-11-16
US	50836966	R1RX15PYYO0AW2	0898704529	664113120	Christianity for Modern Pagans: PASCAL's Pensees Edited, Outlined, and Explained	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	This is how philosophy should be taught.	This is a delightful book, and one that truly does what it says it will: there will be moments of stunned silence when you realize just how truly great Pascal's thought was.  The fact that he didn't jump on the Enlightenment bandwagon goes only to his credit.  There was a great parting of ways in human thought at that time, with many thinking that science was the answer to human happiness.  Quite obviously this is not so.  Pascal is virtually ignored today because his message is a moral square peg in the decadent round hole of modern life: you will not be happy until you come to know yourself, and you cannot know yourself until you know Christ.	2003-11-16
US	50836966	RFSAYJQWWRZI3	1929133111	778653819	How to Build a Kit Bike	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Good, but just a start	This is a good introduction to what is involved in building a modern &quot;bike in a box&quot;, or a Harley clone, as marketed by any of a number of companies out there.  It gives you some general tips and hints, a review of shop and tool requirements, then walks you through four pretty similar kit bike buildups.  All are modern, all are soft tails, and it should give you an idea of what you're getting into.  Doesn't mention the wide variety of bikes that can be built out there from catalogs - Old School lovers can look elsewhere.  This is all about the new trendy &quot;choppers&quot; you see all over the place, which is okay if you're into that.	2003-10-27
US	50836966	R2ZFWMYKPXTIYV	0760313393	650228019	Choppers	Books	5	6	7	N	N	socio-cultural origins of this strange art form...	This is a really fun and interesting book.  Well written, highly literate, very informative, it gives you the skinny on the real origins of these bikes, their place in motorcyle history, and their place in American history (grudging acceptance, in both cases.)  Not just for bike lovers, this book would be appreciated by anyone interested in popular culture after WW2, especially the beat/hippy generations:  what really happened at Hollister, CA?  What's the story behind &quot;Easy Rider&quot; and its influence?  Also, for the riders in the audience, you get lots of interesting insights into the mechanics of these bikes: what is the origin of the Wide Glide fork?  How did bobbers get their name?  Why did these bikes take on the unique look they did?  It ends with a look at custom bikes today, which is sort of mandatory, but not as interesting as what led up to them, in my opinion.  Highly recommended.	2003-10-27
US	50836966	R3D4B18HQ6EHYG	1857592891	982288585	Three Centuries of Tradition: The Renaissance of Custom Sporting Arms in America	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Splendid overview of this trade	This is the companion catalog to an important and long awaited exhibit of some of the most exquisite firearms ever made in modern times, which was held at the Minneapolis Institute of Arts.  The photography is stunning, the biographical and technical texts written by Wallace Gusler and Mark Silver are excellent and highly instructive, and the entire spectrum of decorated firearms is ably represented. <br /> Firearms enthusiasts of every inclination will find something in here that will make them mute with wonder.  Anyone with the least interest in fine firearms as an art form will be very sorry indeed if he doesn't pick up a copy of this (probably soon to be scarce) volume.  It belongs alongside Wilson's &quot;Steel Canvas&quot;, and is really in some ways a more important work, marking one of the very few times that professional fine arts academia has shown a serious interest in firearms as other than oddities to be explained away politically, or shunned outright.  The incredible beauty and artistic sophistication in evidence here make it plain that these firearms, and hundreds like them not available for this publication, deserve a place on the front rank of any of the decorative art forms man has produced. <br /> Not to be overlooked is the touching and entirely appropriate homage to John Bivins, who can rightly claim to have been one of perhaps five or six souls who diligently resurrected the craft of the American longrifle when it was on the very brink of extinction in the early 1960's.  &quot;First among equals&quot;, John's legacy will live forever and this book is a fitting testament to his contribution.  <br />  Highly recommended.	2003-09-18
US	50836966	R2N3KXF5T6XHHF	0873648919	24298714	4-Wheel Freedom: The Art Of Off-Road Driving	Books	3	19	40	N	Y	Simplistic, but then it's meant for beginners	I expected something different, so I don't blame the author, who has written a nice little treatise on 4 wheel driving for beginners.  Absolute beginners.  This book is a response to the recent popularity of SUV's, and to the fact that many folks have not a clue about what 4 wheel drive is or how to use it.  It starts off at ground zero with the heartwarming little tale of a corporate lawyer and his management/executive wife buying their first SUV (a[...]) and then taking it out for progressively friskier adventures until they get to really test themselves.  Made me want to throw up, but then it's just not my style.  If this is your style, if you honestly don't know which wheels get the power when one is stuck, if you have never used a high-lift jack, if you think a Land Rover is the functional equivalent of a Honda CR-V, then this is the book for you.  The nutty title should have tipped me off, but I had my guard down and it slipped past me.  It's foolish to think you can learn this stuff from a book, anyway...that right there is the BIG fallacy.  Get out, get muddy and bust your knuckles and write your own book.	2003-03-06
US	50836966	R1T09WWRWTVLVO	0528973762	139802992	Rand McNally Deluxe Motor Carriers' Road Atlas 2002: United States, Canada, Mexico (Rand Mcnally Motor Carriers' Road Atlas. Deluxe Edition)	Books	3	7	7	N	Y	You probably don't need this beast.	I caution you to think long and hard before you drop [$$$] on a thing like this.  I leapt before I looked and now I have gobs of information that I don't need.  ...  I was bewitched by the lamination and spiral binding, both wonderful ideas, but there are several other atlases out there that offer the same features for 1/2 the price.  And they're aimed at car drivers.  This thing really is for professional over-the-road truckers, of course, as the name implies, and I'm sure it's marvelous for that purpose.  And don't get me wrong, it's still a great atlas.  ...  So think about it before you buy it, unless for some reason you REALLY need to know the height of all the bridges you'll be driving under.	2002-08-09
US	50836966	R912XSTUVQZNT	0738872547	959226375	Visualizing Middle-earth	Books	1	10	16	N	N	I bought this and returned it two days later	I encourage you to &quot;see all readers reviews&quot; and read the one from Silicon Valley.  I was going to review it myself, but can't add to what's been said before.  This isn't research, it's adolescent dithering.  Fannish chat group afficionados may call it scholarly research, which shows you how much scholarly research they've read, or done.  As glorious as The Lord of the Rings is, it's literature; it isn't history.  To pretend it is history is to do it, and its author, a great disservice.	2002-01-30
US	50836966	R1H1KE9GK051MQ	0898708257	987395125	Tolkien: Man and Myth, a Literary Life	Books	4	86	92	N	Y	4 1/2 stars...an essential companion	The truth is that \\"The Lord of the Rings\\" didn't just win in one poll, it won in several, and Tolkien himself won \\"author of the century\\".  What really upset the literati was that he won again, and again, and again.  Burned 'em up, it did.  What this said was that \\"The Lord of the Rings\\" was not 'the greatest' book of the century, but it was the one people loved the most, the one they cherished and gave their children, the one that had the most meaning for them in the quiet places of their hearts.  Which hurt the establishment even more, I expect, and which leads us to Mr. Pearce's book.<br />Part of the problem with writing biographical material now nearly 30 years after a seminal biography (and a dozen or more literary critiques) have come to press regarding one of the century's most popular writers, is that it's all pretty much been said.  So don't be surprised when Carpenter's excellent and justly famous biography is footnoted many, many times.  This isn't meant to be an entirely original biography.  The biographical section does in 4 pages what Carpenter does in 40 - this book is about something else.  Tolkien distrusted traditional biography and doubted very seriously that just because something happened to an artist that it was necessarily important to him or her.  Tolkien's own list of the most important events of his life and art is pretty short...the Catholic Church and growing up in the pre-industrial English countryside.  Not much there for a biographer to go on, seemingly.  But Mr. Pearce wisely lifts these and a very few other aspects out of the white noise of every life and uses them to illuminate the life and work of a singular and impressive man.  His unshakeable Catholic faith, his tireless devotion to his family, his love of the unspoilt countryside: there you have Tolkien in a nutshell.  It's Pearce's assertion that many modern readers don't really want to hear all that.  Often looking more for excuses rather than examples, they want to know allthe cracks in the plaster.  What were his indiscretions?  His debaucheries?  His infidelities?  Was he gay?  What is most important is that, even after losing both beloved parents in childhood, spending a difficult and poverty stricken youth moving from one shabby apartment to another, struggling to obtain an education, losing two of his greatest friends in the meat grinder of the Somme in WW1, making it home himself by sheer luck, he remained decade after decade a tireless and devoted father and husband, a fount of instruction for generations through his teaching, and the writer of one of the most entrancing and beguiling works ever to be written in the English language.  He didn't devolve into a drunk or a wife beater as did many another self absorbed artist dealing with his \\"issues\\" or carrying around post traumatic stress.  So where's the fun in reading about him then, you ask?  Pearce's delightful book shows how Tolkien did it, how he lived the life he did, based on the things that were important to the man himself.  And Tolkien ought to be allowed an opinion, don't you think?	2002-01-30
US	50836966	R1A907VWJV5C4L	0609604619	44880758	In the Spirit: Conversations with the Spirit of Jerry Garcia	Books	1	17	22	N	N	Pretty sad...Jerry would have been ashamed	I expect you either believe that you can talk to dead people, or that you can't.  And based on that choice you'll be predisposed to believe that this clap-trap exploitation is genuine or that it's an attempt to cash in on as much residual Jerry-mania as possible.  I am a Deadhead, I cherish their music and have hundreds of shows on tape.  I saw them live repeatedly, and if I were sent to a desert isle with only one type of music, it would be The Boys, hands down.  Jerry was a phenomenal intellect and a towering talent.  I think he is one of America's greatest composers.  So it is from that vantage I tell you that I think that Jerry would have laughed his head off at this book.  Read it if you like, but check it out at the library.  Don't send you money to Weir just so she can cash in on the death of such a personage.  And yes, I read it, at the library.  I took the money the book would have cost and bought a Dick's Picks CD, where Jerry really IS still alive and truly DOES speak, from the one podium he always chose...behind that guitar.	2000-10-06
US	50836966	RMA4HYAYAR0WS	1560250909	144372890	Captain Trips: A Biography of Jerry Garcia	Books	2	4	4	N	N	Cursory and inadequate	I was going to recommend this to those just mildly curious about Jerry Garcia, but on second thought I can't do that.  It is an inadequate look at a profoundly complex man, done in a style that, once you have read better work, you realize leaves big wedges of the pie out.  Blair Jackson's biography is THE definitive work, of course, but I would also read Dark Star and even the hilarious (but occasionally innacurate) Living with the Dead by Rock Scully ahead of this.  Jerry would have hated the name, too:  Captain Trips...he despised all that psychadelic pop icon schmaltz, including the skulls and the Uncle Sam hat.  He just wanted to play guitar, which may in the end be his most eloquent and lasting testament to all of us.	2000-10-06
US	50836966	R113V5YAUPTVR2	0964603675	52107798	Self Sufficient Sailor	Books	5	52	53	N	N	Practical knowledge for the serious sailor	Lin and Larry's reprint/update is well worth the investment.  Yes, the chapters here, like many of their books, started off life as magazine articles and, yes, they were published many years ago, but that is  completely beside the point.  Their advice is timeless because it deals  with real knowledge and experience about techniques and material that will  never go out of practical use.  Varnish, sailcloth, kerosene lamps,  dinghies, three strand rope, planes and chisels, none of these or the  hundreds of other topics will ever disappear from sailing, unlike a long  dissertation on LORAN or RDF or epoxy, or other topics rapidly becoming  obsolete.  A hundred years from now there will still be sailors on  engineless boats with kerosene lamps and sextants, because simple things  work.  Period.  Always have, always will.  If this truth appeals to you,  then these are your books.	2000-06-20
US	50836966	R3GXI5PRX0Z08N	0964603659	841450167	Cost Conscious Cruiser	Books	5	42	44	N	N	Get out there...	This and all the other Pardey books are the core curriculum for the particular cult of sailors that believe that the most important thing in sailing is to be small and self sufficient.  After all, the whole point of  sailing is to use the inexhaustible wind to drive you along.  So why  clutter up your already cramped boat with gadgets that (1) you don't need  in the first place and (2) you can't repair when they let you down?  Their  advice that, if you can't fix it then it probably shouldn't be on the boat,  is some of the sagest crusing wisdom around.  And the fact that they have  covered the globe in safety and comfort without an auxiliary engine is  inspirational.  For those who poo poo this, listen to the Pardey's spin you  some tales of some of the hundreds of heartbroken sailors they have seen,  up to their elbows in a diesel engine, missing out on paradise because of  engine failure.  Too often these unfortunates can't sail their boat well  enough to do without the engine (in other words they can't get it out of  the marina) and therefore are stuck in a hell of their own making.  And it  isn't just engines: it's radios, electronic systems, electric anchor  windlasses, roller furling, refrigerators, all the doodads we are told we  can't sail without.  Nonsense.  The Pardey's will innoculate you against  such tragedy.	2000-06-20
US	50836966	R18ICJP4ZOZVK7	0879350814	284779496	Furniture of Williamsburg and Eastern Virginia, 1710-1790	Books	5	8	8	N	N	First rate analysis of the subject	This is a fascinating and truly readable analysis of the importance of the  several Williamsburg cabinet making shops and the role they played in the  furnishing of homes of eastern Virginia.  Williamsburg was far more  important a center of influence in the decorative arts, as it was in other  areas, than it has been given credit for, and this careful exploration  bears this out in a very enjoyable way.  The photography is splendid, and  the piece-by-piece furniture analysis takes on the air of a detective novel  after a while.  Highly recommended.	2000-06-06
US	50836966	R2SKALNIDF9GY2	1883403642	298943239	NIKON System Handbook, 6th Edition	Books	5	27	32	N	Y	Absolutely first rate...	This is the one book to have if you own a Nikon camera.  I can't think of a single thing that is not covered in detail here, and with clarity often missing from the factory manuals.  The lens section is the real gem...far  superior to the Magic Lantern series Nikon Lens book, which is very  incomplete.  I have both, and when I want lens information, I turn to The  Nikon System Handbook.  It has every lens in it, as far as I can tell, and  every different model of every lens, to boot!  (The Nikon Lens book just  sits there on the shelf.)  Buy this book.	2000-06-04
US	50836966	R1LN2382JJ2FPG	038000741X	571510645	Monkey Wrench Gang	Books	5	46	50	N	N	Hilarious and inspiring, if you can take it...	...which many can't do.  Abbey is a fiercely skillful writer who can punch you right in the mouth with words when he wants to.  This is a very unconventional novel, with writing and characterization that border on the  surreal, but Abbey knows his craft.  The Dream Garden Press edition has a  chapter he was forced to leave out of the trade edition, and it borders on  the nightmarish.  He is unflinching in his criticisms and unyielding in his  devotions, and The Monkey Wrench Gang is a wonderful novel.  I reread it  every couple of years and enjoy it every time.  It's quite possible that  you will hate this book and what it stands for, as well as the rest of  Abbey's writings.  It's also quite possible that that was Abbey's intention  from the very start.  Ed Abbey doesn't pander or beg.  He lays it on the  line and dares you to come along for the ride.  And Monkey Wrench is one  great ride.  No, it isn't Proust.  Yes, Mormons and Indians and most women  may be offended.  That's tough.  It isn't for everyone, and thank God for  that.	2000-05-21
