US	50832567	R1FP4OEQQ7HU2P	007141052X	424075872	The Ultimate Guide To Choosing a Medical Specialty	Books	5	24	25	N	N	A Must Read for Every Medical Student	I read this book during my second year of med school and found it to be an invaluable resource. The Ultimate Guide to Choosing a Medical Specialty is divided into two parts. The first has general information about specialties and the Match along with strategies to approach both. The information on the NRPM alone is reason enough to buy the book. After reading Part One, I had a much better understanding of how to plan for residency while still in the early stages of medical school. The second part of the book profiles individual types of residencies. Each chapter is written by a resident or practicing physician in that area. They provide a glimpse into what it is like in those specialties. Each chapter focuses on personalities, scientific interests, lifestyles, and the residency experience. The book even provides details and statistics covering match percentages, employment data, average weekly work hours, and median compensations. The only valuable piece of information that it does not provide are average GPAs and USMLE scores for the specialties. It also briefly covers fellowships for each residency. The specialty chapters are in alphabetical order for easy reference. Although it does not cover every single possible specialty and subspecialty out there, it comes close and definitely includes all the major ones. Whether decided on a specialty or not, this book is perfect for anyone at any stage of medical school or pre-medical education. The earlier one reads this book, the better.	2004-12-12
US	50832567	RHDQ1XAGGOKCH	0891078916	988726179	If I Should Wake Before I Die: The Medical and Biblical Truth About Near-Death Experiences	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Critical Examination that Diffuses the Near Death Experience	In this book, Dr. Greene presents evidence and compelling arguments that counter the near death experience as being a legitimate spiritual experience. He explains away the characteristics of the stereotypical near death experience in a medical and biblical context. If I Should Wake Before I Die is divided into three sections. In the first section, Dr. Greene takes time to introduce the near death experience and some of its most popular proponents and authors. In the second section, the near death experience is examined from a medical perspective. Dr. Greene is a cardiologist and is able to present an in depth view into its physiology. His focus is primarily on what takes place in the central nervous and cardiovascular systems during the medical situations in which near death experiences would occur. He is able to offer a medical explanation for all the events that have been reported by those who said they have had a near death experience. In the third section, Dr. Greene goes over biblical scriptures that go against the phenomenon of a near death experience, giving instances in the Bible where near death experiences could have occurred but never did and giving some theological reasoning against their existence. The book is written from a decidedly Christian perspective, and Dr. Greene's faith is evident in this text. The second section can feel a little technical at times during the medical explanations, but it is still understandable for the layman. Overall, I thought the book presented intelligent arguments against the near death experience being able to scientifically explain its popular characteristics and show how it does not fit within Christian teachings.	2004-06-11
US	50832567	R1N3FYJ9CEZ7IG	0632051531	152239721	Essential Haematology (Essentials)	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Good Medical Text	This was my medical school textbook for a four week module on hematology. What I liked most about the book is that it only presented essential information. The absence of superfluous text allowed me the time to regularly read the assigned chapters while also studying the rest of the material for this class and other classes. I also found the book to be relatively easy to comprehend. (However, this is definitely not on the layman's level, and a good requisite knowledge of a first year medical school curriculum is necessary before reading.) Virtually every pathologic aspect of hematology is covered in the text: hemopoietic development, anemias, lymphomas and leukemias, coagulation disorders, etc. It also covers some treatments for the various diseases and pathologic processes. This book was an integral part to my studying and understanding hematology. It will definitely sit on my reference shelf for years to come.	2004-06-05
US	50832567	R1XQ97MPL4KVFI	0743201531	121089173	On Doctoring: New, Revised and Expanded Third Edition	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Fair Attempt to Expound Literary Art in a Medical Paradigm	I, along with all my other classmates, received this book at the beginning of medical school at our white coat ceremony. It was presented to us as a collection of anecdotal stories and poems that would help us maintain our focus on the humanistic side of medicine and keep our passions for the practice alive while toiling away at arduous scientific study and long clinical hours. There are some excerpts and short works in the book that do just that. I found myself inspired and feeling enlightened after reading these parts of the book. However, this did not comprise the majority of the book for me. Most of it kept me on the verge of reading and sleep. Several of the poems failed to grip me in the way a select few of the stories had done. Although much of health care deals with the elderly, the book seemed to drone on and on with the experiences of the geriatric to the extent that at times, it felt a more apt title would be On Being Old. For the most part, I felt this work tried to pressure literary art on to medicine. There is a lot of rich and passionate literature related to medicine, but I felt that mostly only less than great works were included here. It was an o.k. experience to read through On Doctoring which did have its gripping pages, but I would probably not recommend it.	2004-03-20
US	50832567	R3SP6W2410PWI5	0940780534	725089219	Clinical Anatomy Made Ridiculously Simple (MedMaster Series, 2004 Edition)	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Quirky Mnemonics that Stick	I used this book when studying for my medical school gross anatomy course. When I first read over the sections I was studying in class, I thought that the mnemonic devices were somewhat silly and did not try to depend much on them. However, when I found myself in my first written and practical exams, I began reciting some of the seemingly ridiculous analogies from the book. It turned out to be an excellent help. Clinical Anatomy Made Ridiculously Simple is divided into 17 chapters organized by systems. There are two tables of contents, one that follows the systemic outline of the book and another that jumps around pages but is organized into regions of the body. This makes it easy to approach the book from either the systems or regional study. It touched on virtually every aspect that we covered in class. It is easy to understand and will help the reader when he/she has gotten bogged down in anatomical jargon. Although one should not depend on this book a sole text for the study of anatomy, it would make an excellent companion to any anatomy course.	2004-03-20
US	50832567	RKBKW3A59IJLW	0824518837	210735898	The Zen Teachings of Jesus	Books	1	41	88	N	N	A Disappointing Attempt	The impression that the book presents on its cover is that it will examine the teachings of Jesus and how they resemble Zen ideas. Mr. Leong makes a 232-page attempt to do that. In the introduction, he exhorts the reader to be opened-minded, not restricted to the reader's past religious lessons, and look at the teachings of Jesus as if for the first time. After asking the reader to do so, Mr. Leong does just the opposite. He reads the scriptures with such a background of Zen thinking that he oftentimes misses their very obvious meanings. Anyone reading the Gospels for the first time would scarcely come to the same conclusions as Mr. Leong. He quotes several authors to try to add validity to his points. One of the more often quoted is C. S. Lewis. I have read all of Lewis's quoted works, and found Mr. Leong to even have misinterpreted these at times. Mr. Leong appears to have tried too hard to force Zen upon Jesus. I found myself frustrated at his lack of seeing the obvious meanings while trying to interpret the teachings of Jesus in a Zen paradigm.	2003-06-10
US	50832567	R1DE6SSSJ776PN	0140444513	207452872	Hippocratic Writings (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	25	26	N	N	Taste of Ancient Western Medicine	This work is a sampling of the Hippocratic Corpus, a collection of ancient Greek medical works. Hippocrates himself may have written some, but certainly not all, of the texts. The collection spans centuries and contains slightly differing views. This makes for a fuller picture of ancient Greek medicine. As one reads through the book, the reader gets a real sense of the medical theories and \\"facts\\" of the time. A majority of Hippocratic Writings is concerned with internal medicine and diseases. At the beginning, and interspersed throughout, there are discussions on the philosophy of being a physician. There is a large section about how to treat limb fractures, and the section called The Nature of Man describes the physiological theories of the time. The book ends with a discussion of embryology and a brief anatomical description of the heart. The work is not too difficult to read and seems to be very well translated. The large introduction to the book serves well to place the setting of the book and understand a bit of the translation. A Glossary of Names appears in the back. This seems to serve more as an academic reference as it is not necessary to refer to it as one reads the book. Along with the general index, there is the Supplementary Index to Medical Treatises. This index lists instances within Hippocratic Writings that, in the context of current medical knowledge, describes some now more commonly known medical conditions and diseases. Some knowledge of anatomy, physiology, and ancient Greek scientific philosophy are helpful in reading the book.	2003-06-10
US	50832567	R1I6J7OK5IZ1NG	0671023373	104801902	Man's Search For Meaning	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Classic Work in Psychology	Viktor Frankl was trained a psychiatrist before becoming imprisoned in Nazi concentration camps for three years in World War II. In the first part of Man's Search for Meaning, Experiences in a Concentration Camp, Frankl engrosses the reader the feelings and general experience of the average concentration camp prisoner. He does not focus on the horrific details of the camps, but rather, he poignantly expresses the psychological state produced by these experiences. The second part of the book, Logotherapy in a Nutshell, is a brief overview of the system of psychology that Frankl founded. The third part of the book, The Case for a Tragic Optimism, was added to the 1984 edition and is based off one of Frankl's 1983 lectures. In it, Frankl expounds logotherapy a little further. This work has won its place in history. In conjunction with being one of the main texts in the field of logotherapy, its gripping description on the concentration camps makes it not only compelling but also highly informative. This is a must read for anyone who has ever put thought into psychology, spirituality, or the meaning of life. Man's Search for Meaning is well written and not difficult to read. This short work will have an impact on anyone who reads it.	2003-05-12
US	50832567	R22HYPEULUTZVE	1559342668	6445476	Abnormal Psychology: A Discovery Approach	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Undergraduate Abnormal Psychology	This was my textbook for an upper level undergraduate psychology class. It is intended for use in a survey course in abnormal psychology. It begins with a case history which is referred to as the book progresses. An overview of the four main psychological paradigms comes next. The subsequent chapters examine topics in abnormal psychology under these paradigms. There is also a chapter on psychological assessment, testing, and classification. The subjects that the book covers range across anxiety, depression, schizophrenia, personality disorders, dissociative disorders, sexual dysfunctions, etc. The DSM-IV classification criteria are given for the discussed disorders. For the most part, each chapter uses case studies to exemplify its points. I found this to help ground what I was reading in real life scenarios. Aside from this, there are several side notes and highlights in the text which round out the picture. It is not difficult to read through, and I did not feel that anything was left out. An undergraduate introductory psychology class is a help and should be a prerequisite for reading the book, but one can manage without it. There are also several color photos and charts interspersed throughout the book. This keeps the reader from becoming too bogged down in black and white text. Also, each chapter is divided and subdivided neatly into headings which make for an easier read if one must take a break and provide for easier reference. While the book will not allow the reader the ability to immediately practice psychology, I found it to serve quite well as an undergraduate textbook.	2003-05-10
US	50832567	R3HK60R4Q9EL7G	0684815001	763680226	The Cost of Discipleship	Books	4	3	4	N	N	More than Surface Christianity	The Cost of Discipleship covers several topics, all of which touch on basic Christian doctrine. It centralizes around whom Jesus is and his relation to us. The book begins with a chapter on the difference between cheap and costly grace. This chapter sets the tone for the rest of the book. Bonhoeffer realized that once given to Christ, an individual must do more than just claim religion and attend Sunday church services. He describes the call to discipleship and how we are to relate to Christ after becoming Christian disciples. A hint of an existential perspective can be sensed as the book progresses. Bonhoeffer gives his insights into scripture as he goes through the Sermon on the Mount. The book also relates the purpose of the church and the individual within the church. Bonhoeffers tone has a preachy quality to it as though one is reading a long sermon. Throughout his book, he inserts Latin and Greek words which may mean more to the scholar, but do not do much good for the layman. However, this does not detract from Bonhoeffers points, and the book is not too terribly hard to understand. There is a detailed but brief biography of Dietrich Bonhoeffers life at the beginning of the book. Reading through this helps to put the rest of the work in perspective.	2003-05-04
US	50832567	RT77F8C79RM1E	0201328429	105342789	Six Not-So-Easy Pieces (Helix Books)	Books	5	74	75	N	N	Six More Elegantly Explained Concepts	Six Not-So-Easy Pieces is the sequel to the book Six Easy Pieces. The first book is a collection of six of the easier lectures from Feynman's freshman and sophomore physics classes at CalTech. Six Not-So-Easy Pieces are some of the more difficult lectures from those classes. In contrast to the first book, these lessons are much more mathematical. Freshman calculus is definitely a prerequisite to reading this book. Courses in vector calculus and differential equations will help the reader to more completely understand the works, but they are not absolutely necessary. However, without much mathematical knowledge, one can just take Feynman at his word for all the equations, reading mainly the conceptual explanations, but one will invariably miss out on some of the points. For anyone reading the book, Feynman's teaching style is something that can be enjoyed. He explains the concepts in a comprehensive and not-too-difficult manner and seems to have a full understanding of what the student in the lecture hall is thinking. The six topics (chapters) covered in this book are: Vectors, Symmetry in Physical Laws, The Special Theory of Relativity, Relativistic Energy and Motion, Space-Time, and Curved Space. This book is in no way a survey of physics. It is more of a sampling of Feynman's teaching. However, the common thread that runs through the six pieces is that they all relate to understanding relativity. For the layman who has a mathematical background and wants to understand the concept of relativity, this book is an excellent help. I would suggest reading Six Easy Pieces before reading this book, but it is not necessary. If you enjoyed reading the first book, I would highly recommend this one and vice versa.	2003-04-04
US	50832567	R4BRIDFD3A8KT	0060652381	453295478	A Grief Observed	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Intellectual and Spiritual Insight into Grief	After C. S. Lewis lost his wife, Helen Joy Davidman, he took up a journal. These writings make up A Grief Observed. Lewis refers to his lost beloved as H. in his journal. The title aptly describes this work. It is not about grief in general but about the grief of a specific man at a specific time for a specific loss. The foreword by Madeleine L'Engle makes good observation of the practical application of the book in examining grief and helping others in part to cope. The introduction by Douglas H. Gresham, a son of Joy Davidman, paints an intimate picture of who Lewis and Davidman were. From this, one gets the sense this book is going to be about something real. In the work, Lewis's true colors show through. He is an intellectual individual moving through the grieving process and trying to understand his own thoughts and experience. He displays himself with unabashed openness and honesty (perhaps because he thought these scribblings would never become public). One understands that he is experiencing real loss and pain. Lewis asks \\"Aren't all these notes the senseless writhings of a man who won't accept the fact that there is nothing we can do with suffering except to suffer it?\\" Lewis confronts his faith which may be a \\"house of cards\\" while trying to hold onto the proper memory of H. so that she is never really gone. Both of these seem to be the central themes of the book. In Lewis's examination of his faith and God, he stumbles upon several points of insight into the both of them. For his own part, nearer the beginning of the book, Lewis says \\"You never know how much you really believe anything until its truth or falsehood becomes a matter of life and death to you.\\" As Lewis putts along his journey of grief, he comes to the point where he begins to see all this in the grand scheme of things for what it is and begins to go on to the next step in his life. For his experience, as for many of the rest of us, \\"Grief is like a long valley, a winding valley where any bend may reveal a totally new landscape.\\"<br />I do not know if this book would be of much consolation, understanding, or catharsis for anyone who is experiencing loss because I did not read it in a period of grief. Looking back, I can see where I would identify with Lewis and if having read it before grieving, it would perhaps have been of benefit. It is amazing what truth can be uncovered when an individual is knocked to the bottom and is brutally honest with him- or herself and the world. A Grief Observed is what it is, and it contains deep spiritual wisdom. The book is short and an excellent read.d may reveal a totally new landscape.\\"<br />I do not know if this book would be of much consolation, understanding, or catharsis for anyone who is experiencing loss because I did not read it in a period of grief. Looking back, I can see where I would identify with Lewis and if having read it before grieving, it would perhaps have been of benefit. It is amazing what truth can be uncovered when an individual is knocked to the bottom and is brutally honest with him- or herself and the world. A Grief Observed is what it is, and it contains deep spiritual wisdom. The book is short and an excellent read.	2003-03-28
US	50832567	R3R60JTHLT61O3	0060653027	338167986	C. S. Lewis Signature Classics: Mere Christianity, The Screwtape Letters, A Grief Observed, The Problem of Pain, Miracles, and The Great Divorce (Boxed Set)	Books	5	60	68	N	N	Great Collection of C. S. Lewis Books	This is an excellent collection of works by C. S. Lewis. It served as my introduction to Lewis's writings. I had never read anything by him before and was only familiar with his name and the title of one or two of his books. I was awed for the most part by his insight into Christianity and his intellect. As with any other author, there were some points on which I could not wholly agree, but in a far greater number of times, I found myself growing in my faith and deepening my understanding. This set consists of six books in all. The Problem of Pain is an examination of the purpose of pain in the world. The Screwtape Letters is a fictional collection of letters from a demon named Screwtape who counsels his nephew on how to draw a man away from God. The Great Divorce is a fantastic story of a spiritual being after death somewhere between heaven and hell. Miracles is an examination of what miracles really are and how they play a role in this world. Mere Christianity is, as its title suggests, an attempt to point out and explain the most basic tenets of the Christian faith. A Grief Observed is the journal the Lewis kept after the death of his wife. (I have written a more detailed review for each book under its individual listing.) I would highly recommend this collection to anyone. It is filled with spiritual insight and understanding.	2003-03-28
US	50832567	R2YAYWFS4CD49O	0060955449	2759931	Profiles in Courage (Perennial Classics)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Conscience over Capitulation	While recuperating in the hospital from a near fatal episode of infection after a surgery, Senator John F. Kennedy took that time to begin writing about U.S. Senators who had exhibited explicit courage at some point in their political careers. This turned into the Pulitzer Prize wining Profiles in Courage. In the book, Kennedy examines eight senators who followed their own convictions and took what they believed to be the right stances on issues while the pressures of their parties, constituents, and career prospects weighed down on them to do otherwise. Robert F. Kennedy has written a forward to this book in which he explains John Kennedy's esteem for the attribute of human courage. In the preface, the former president gives the reader a glimpse of some of the pressures faced by U.S. Senators and the environment in which they work. The men profiled begin with John Quincy Adams and lead up to Robert A. Taft. Profiles in Courage is divided into four parts, each with a brief introduction to \\"The Time and The Place.\\" One gets a real feel for America through the eyes of these eight senators. This work could be look upon as a history lesson (which it is in part), but the theme that courses through every page is real life accounts of individuals who stand up for their convictions even when the cause seems and really is lost. Flanked by a forward by Robert Kennedy and a brief biography of the president, this edition does take its chance to extol the man John F. Kennedy, but it does not detract from the body of the work itself. While not a book definitive on any subject, Profiles in Courage is a piece of America, and would it behoove any American to read it.	2003-03-17
US	50832567	R1308G3B7V4JM7	0060652926	338167986	Mere Christianity	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Insight into the Basics of Christianity	Mere Christianity was originally a series of radio broadcasts that Lewis began in England during the Second World War. He later made some revisions and collected these broadcasts into four books: Right and Wrong as a Clue to the Meaning of the Universe, What Christians Believe, Christian Behavior, and Beyond Personality: or First Steps in the Doctrine of the Trinity. These four books were compiled into what is collectively Mere Christianity. What Lewis attempted to do is give a summary of the basic tenets and spiritual understandings of Christianity. This book, because of its basicness, crossed over the lines of Catholic, Protestant, and the subdivisions thereof. As stated in the foreword of the text, the impetus for this series of talks put on by the BBC was in reaction to the despondency with which many Britons were confronted in the course of beginning another World War. Lewis used wartime analogies in many places in his work. When reading Mere Christianity one cannot help but notice how it is placed in this interesting historical context.<br />The title of this work serves it well. Mere Christianity touches on the basis of much of Christian thought. It shows Lewis's intimate understanding of his faith and his ability to articulately communicate this to his readers/listeners. While, as with any other work, I did not find myself in one hundred percent agreement with every single statement, far more often than not, I could not help but sense a growing enlightenment of God and the principles of Christianity as I read. After reading some of his other works, Lewis has again not disappointed me in the least with Mere Christianity. The book is easy to read and filled with wisdom.	2003-02-28
US	50832567	RV0FESAMF6SK6	0525675779	501647629	A Doctor's Life: A Visual History of Doctors and Nurses Through the Ages	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Neat and Visually Appealing Book	A Doctor's Life chronicles in a very brief sense the evolution of medicine from Roman doctors in 50 A.D. to modern surgeons. The subtitle of the book is A Visual History of Doctors and Nurses Through the Ages, and this is perhaps a more apt description of the book. Every page is filled with large color photos of people dressed in authentic clothing and/or various items of medicine and medical tools used throughout history. It focuses solely on western medicine except for two pages devoted to Native American medicine men. In the back, there is a glossary of some medical terms and a timeline of pertinent events in medical history. This book is too large to fit on a conventional book shelf, and it only numbers 48 pages. It would make a good coffee table book. Because of its brevity, it does not go into the greatest detail in the periods it describes. One can easily read tough the book in one sitting. The greatest benefit is the wealth of pictures. Along with the pictures, the short descriptions in each section give the reader a sense of what medicine was and how it was practiced through the ages.	2003-02-13
US	50832567	R3HCVCD5ASOGDN	0671708635	783953685	The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A Must Read	The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People is truly insightful. The subtitle best perhaps describes the book: Powerful Lessons in Personal Change. The \\"seven habits\\" are divided into three sections. The first three habits deal with liberating the individual to an independent and self sustaining life. The next three habits cover interacting with other individuals to harness their energy and resources in order to create a better reality for all who are involved. The last habit is on continual personal betterment. The book is targeted mostly toward business men and women, but the lessons involved are applicable to every individual in every walk of life. They extend from the working world to the familial and personal. There was not a page in the book that I felt did not have great value. As Covey admits, many of his ideas come from Christian principles, and one gets the sense that this book is full of deep meaning and at times spiritual life. In all, I consider this to be a must read for everyone, and I wish I had read it sooner.	2003-02-05
US	50832567	R346K7TH4L9K2M	0060653019	759467388	Miracles	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The Essence of Miracles	In this book, C.S. Lewis looks at the essence of what miracles are and how they relate to Christianity. He begins with a few chapters trying to prove that miracles have occurred and are occurring. In these chapters and at other points in the book, he examines what miracles are to us psychologically and why individuals have a hard time believing in them. Lewis talks intelligently about a subject that many would consider only a matter of faith and not reason. While I am not wholeheartedly ready to jump in the boat on every single one of his ideas, I found his thinking to be enlightened and very interesting. One of Lewis's main points is the difference between the belief that the universe is the whole of existence with nothing possible outside of it and the belief that God is the surveyor of all there is with our universe being only one of other realms. He makes this and his other points clearly and intelligently. Reading through this book is invaluable in deepening one's faith and understanding of Christianity.	2003-01-17
US	50832567	RQRUOIACNUU3K	0966862309	797506852	How Cars Work	Books	5	63	67	N	N	Would Recommend to Anyone	This book is intended for the individual who knows very little to nothing about auto mechanics. Each page covers one specific aspect of how a vehicle operates with a short and simple explanation accompanied with large and detailed diagrams. There are seven chapters over the seven most essential automotive systems with a brief test at the end of each. One cannot rebuild a car after reading through this book, but what it does give is an overall knowledge of how a car works. The reader will gain the knowledge to understand what is going on in a mechanic's shop and to better maintain his or her own vehicle. This book is not for someone who already knows the basics of or has worked on automotive systems. However, it is excellent for anyone who has never picked up a wrench or wants a brief introduction to the subject.	2002-12-30
US	50832567	R29VLB37TJ5ABE	0060652950	94824058	The Great Divorce	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Brief Overview	The Great Divorce takes place on a supernatural plane somewhere between Heaven and Hell. The story of one soul's experiences is told first hand by a ghost making its way from Hell onto this plane. There, it and those that came with the ghost encounter more radiant beings that have obtained a closeness with God and come from a place beyond the mountains. These spirits converse with the ghostly entities. For the most part, each chapter focuses on a conversation between one ghost and one spirit where the actions of the ghost's earthly life that have kept it from heaven are examined. The points Lewis makes are sharp and intriguing. The work itself is short and can be quickly read. I found this book to be both very interesting and enjoyable.	2002-12-24
US	50832567	R2A60SGRTZX4PY	0520004507	467183026	Dialogue Concerning the Two Chief World Systems, Ptolemaic and Copernican, Second Revised edition	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A Piece of Scientific History	Galileo's Dialogue Concerning the Two Chief World Systems has long had its place in the history books. The work consists of a dialogue between three characters, Salviati, Sagredo, and Simplicio. They gather together over the course of four days to discuss the Ptolemaic and Copernican views of the universe. Ptolemy's system is that of an earth centered universe that aligns with the views of Aristotle, the more popular conception. Copernicus's system is heliocentric. This is a radical opinion of the time and incidentally is the correct one. Salviati supports the Copernican system and Simplicio adheres to the Ptolemaic view. These two refute the ideas of the other and argue for their own. Sagredo is somewhat caught in the middle. However, he ultimately aligns with Salviati on every point. The translator, Stillman Drake, in his introduction, goes over the climate and political forces of Galileo's day along with Galileo's reason's for writing this book. As Drake points out, Galileo is appealing to the public here. It seems that this is Galileo getting in the last word on the argument for a heliocentric universe. This book is also what largely does him in with the Vatican. Galileo dose not directly argue against the church in this book but only against the Aristotelian opinion while showing reverence for divine power.<br />The best was to describe this book is verbose. It fills 465 pages with small print. Because it is written in conversational tone, perhaps Galileo felt that the extra wording was necessary. It does take some time to read. Drake does an excellent job of making important notes throughout the work. Some of these are geared more for an academic study, but others give needed explanation. Just like we do not have all the answers today, Galileo makes some scientific mistakes. These are few and Drake gives explanations for them. This book is worth the read for its place in history. A brief background in astronomy and even Aristotelian philosophy will benefit the reader. I would also recommend Discoveries and Opinions of Galileo, also translated and compiled by Drake.reader. I would also recommend Discoveries and Opinions of Galileo, also translated and compiled by Drake.	2002-12-14
US	50832567	R2VQGG7ARQYYG5	0060652934	963630731	The Screwtape Letters	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Poignant Observations	This work is a collection of letters constituting a one sided correspondence between a demon named Screwtape and his nephew Wormwood. Wormwood has been assigned to corrupt an unnamed human. Screwtape coaches Wormwood on how to tempt the man and draw him away from God. Several of the pieces of advice given by Screwtape make poignant observances on how the soul can be corrupted. They will help the reader to examine his or her own spiritual life. At times, Wormwood disappoints Screwtape, and his \\"affectionate\\" uncle will lash out in anger and contempt. These letters take place during the Second World War, and it plays at least a minor role in the work. What can also be seen is Lewis's own thoughts on current cultural trends (of the 1940s) and how they affect one's faith. This book is an excellent read and not difficult to understand.	2002-11-12
US	50832567	R1IXGKACRUGO6V	0201408252	165980351	Six Easy Pieces: Essentials Of Physics Explained By Its Most Brilliant Teacher (Helix Book)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Six Elegantly Explained Concepts	This book consists of what the editors consider to be six of the easier lessons from Richard Feynman's Lectures on Physics, a three volume work adapted from a series of freshman and sophomore level lectures given at Caltech in the 1960s. Each piece elegantly explains its intended topic without complicated or in depth mathematics. The reader will obtain the gist of the principles behind theses physical phenomena. Feynman whole heartedly admits to the limits of scientific knowledge of his time and in doing so very much dates his lectures. They nonetheless contain rich morsels of the knowledge of physics which will benefit the modern reader. This book is not intended to be an overview of physics. It assumes the reader has some basic education in some subjects, and a previous knowledge of elementary physics greatly helps to understand the pieces. More than anything, it is Feynman's style of teaching that is conveyed through the work's pages. The greatest joy in reading Six East Pieces is to experience Feynman's intuitive knowledge of physics and his subtly elegant conveyance of this topic.	2002-11-02
US	50832567	R1WARNAVFB0U77	0060652969	21086024	The Problem of Pain	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Profoud Ideas	In this book, C. S. Lewis makes an attempt to explain the causes and purposes of pain. He explains its necessity in the universe in which we live and how God makes use of it. Out of the nature of both God and the universe, Lewis tells of how we have helped to usher pain into our existence. In doing so, he touches on the very essence of creation and the relationship between God and man. There are some very poignant notions in this book. The reader will develop a greater understanding of how we relate to God. The Problem of Pain will probably not comfort someone who is in the midst of dealing with his or her own suffering or heartbreak. It appears that it was intended for more of an intellectual approach to the subject. There are, however, some cumbersome and awkward moments in the book. Lewis makes what seem to be some largely unsubstantiated claims that are outside his realm of expertise, such as man's ability to control all his own biochemical processes before the fall and how animals come to God through man. These ideas seem to come at best from Lewis's imagination. He is humble in his consciousness of his own imperfection. In the preface, Lewis states, \\"If any real theologian reads these pages he will very easily see that they are the work of a layman and an amateur.\\" His writing style is like free flowing thought which can be difficult to read at times. Nonetheless, the work is in no way incomprehensible. Overall, the profound ideas Lewis has on the nature of pain have deepened my own spiritual understanding, and I considered it a privilege to have read his work.	2002-10-25
US	50832567	RBJS5HNWUQJUU	0789427761	26962753	101 Essential Tips: Hiking (101 Essential Tips)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent Novice Hiker's Guide	This a great companion for the beginning hiker. It is small enough to carry on camping or day trips and is a nifty reference. The full color pictures make for an easy way to understand and remember the author's points. The book is filled with practical know how. Many of the topics covered may seem remedial for more advanced hikers but are nonetheless a good survey of the basics. The 101 tips cover a wide range of information from breaking camp to reading maps and planning routes to life-saving first aid. the book is easy and quick to read, consisting of only 69 short pages. It is an excellent and inexpensive aid for any new hiker.	2002-10-14
US	50832567	R17LVZR1XM2LCX	0415925649	536322638	God in the Details: American Religion in Popular Culture	Books	3	7	12	N	N	Good Idea and OK Attempt	This book is an attempt to highlight venues in American popular culture that contain elements of religion or replace it all together. The thesis sounds very intriguing and caught my attention right off. At times, however, the essays that compose the book seem to be too much of a stretch. They can seem to force the analogy of religion to some topics. Not all the meat of the essays is unfounded. Many points that are raised are worth reading. I perhaps had higher expectations of the book and was therefore a little disappointed in what insight it had being surrounded by superfluous discussion. The essays are intelligently written and carry a heavily academic tone. Overall, I gained a few insights, but not what I would consider 313 pages worth.	2002-10-12
US	50832567	R388M6RZ7O2Z6J	1563924285	62869764	The Bicycle Book (Haynes Automotive Repair Manual Series)	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Detailed and Easy to Follow	This is a great instructional book for bicycle maintenance. It is written so that a novice in bicycle repair can understand the procedures. There is a chapter on how to disassemble and repair each aspect of your bicycle in detailed form. The book covers all different types of components on both road and mountain bikes. The instructions are easy to follow. The pictures are clear, and one can easily see what the authors are talking about. As a necessity, specialized bicycle tools are required to do many of the more complex manipulations. Each section has a troubleshooting guide, and chapter three is nothing but a troubleshooting guide. This book makes a great reference manual and will enhance one's basic knowledge of bicycle mechanics.	2002-09-27
US	50832567	R1JSX1H4KI9KAC	067188400X	254558594	Winning Ugly: Mental Warfare in Tennis--Lessons from a Master	Books	4	35	37	N	N	Analytical and Intelligent Tennis	Winning Ugly is a great book on how to gain the advantage in a tennis match in ways other than perfecting your strokes or training into world-class shape. The book is divided into three sections. The first is on preparing for a match and gaining an edge before the match even begins. Gilbert goes through planning, equipment preparation, stretching, overcoming nervousness, and how to mentally prepare to win the first few games. Some things in the chapters on equipment and stretching may be a little elementary but are nonetheless good tennis knowledge. The next section is on strategizing during your match and recognizing critical points. The last section is on developing a good mental game. Throughout the book, Gilbert uses examples from his own career and analyzes other players. These illustrations are perhaps the most valuable aspects of the book.  Written in the early nineties, Winning Ugly talks about the top level pros of its time. The concepts, however, will never become outdated. The book is very easy to read. The reader gets a feel for Gilbert's analytical approach to playing tennis and can use it as an example for his own game. In one chapter, Gilbert goes into how to deal with certain types of players. It would have been nice if there was more of this, but overall, Winning Ugly is a great book and will help improve anyone's game.	2002-09-07
US	50832567	R3SISIB8QBI6OQ	0140440739	470589744	The Life of Saint Teresa of Avila by Herself (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	76	78	N	N	A Humble Life	St. Teresa's autobiography records her life up to the age of fifty. She is a simple woman, her writing not being anything more that the thoughts that come to her mind. She states in the letter that accompanied this work to Friar Garcia De Toledo that &quot;Some things...may be badly expressed, and others put down twice, for I have had so little time for the task that I have not been able to reread what I have written.&quot; In spite of this, St. Teresa reveals mystical and spiritual wonders in beautiful description. Rather than a history of her works and the events that determine her worldly life, this book is more of a spiritual autobiography. She recounts her childhood desires and the early yearning of her soul to be with God. She talks of her illnesses and how she came closer to God through them. St. Teresa gives her description of different levels of prayer, which appear in both the Way of Perfection and the Interior Castle. She tells of the ways in which God spoke to her, at first in subtle manners to more salient ones later in her life. She received an increased number of visions as she advanced spiritually. God also begins to speak to her more directly. All this comforted her and guided her as she established the convent of St. Joseph's at Avila. In the convent's establishment, St. Teresa describes the opposition that she faced and her financial worries. Endowed with a will to reject the things of this world, she pressed on, setting a rule of poverty for her Avilan sisters. Throughout The Life, she wanders from her main point to give her understanding of several spiritual matters. The book is also permeated with her humility and self-abasement. Reading through this autobiography will benefit anyone wishing to read the Way of Perfection or the Interior Castle, her two other most notable works.	2002-08-24
US	50832567	R2N1JQROKOF20	0785274715	567945004	The Book of Romance: What Solomon Says About Love, Sex, and Intimacy	Books	5	28	32	N	N	Excellent Godly Relationship Guide	Tommy Nelson is a Texas pastor who has developed a series on relationships from the Song of Solomon. The Book of Romance follows very closely his video series and his conferences. It moves through all stages of a romantic relationship from dating to courting to engagement and to having a successful marriage. He addresses many issues that are seldom touched upon on Sunday mornings. The first few chapters of the book are a practical guide through the premarital stages of a relationship and how to know when to and when not to carry on those relationships. It is applicable to people of all ages from those just beginning to date and to those in a long marriage. Nelson analyzes the Song of Solomon in all its poetic and sensual detail. One gets the full sense of longing and romantic desires between Solomon and his bride. It will also leave you with a longing for your own significant other. The Book of Romance will energize any marriage and give guidance to anyone struggling with his or her marriage or in a dating relationship. I bought the book half way through one of Nelson's conferences with a desire to know more of God's perspective on love, sensuality, and sexuality. He does hold to the idea of wives submitting to and following their husbands as leaders, but any couple that applies the principles in the Book of Romance to their relationship will grow stronger, closer to each other, and closer to God. I would also recommend the video series.	2002-08-11
US	50832567	R233A18HUFBHDS	0812694333	476681057	The Simpsons and Philosophy: The D'oh! of Homer (Popular Culture and Philosophy)	Books	2	7	12	N	N	A Disappointment	The introduction of The Simpsons and Philosophy states that its purpose is to use The Simpsons as a springboard into various philosophic topics for the purpose of building the reader's interest in philosophy. As the book progresses, it seems to have less and less to do with The Simpsons. Each chapter is an essay written by a different author. The last chapter has nothing to do with the show and makes an unsuccessful attempt to use Bart as an example of its thesis. Chapter 14 goes on some weird and off-base tangent of what it means to \\"Love your neighbor as yourself.\\" From its title and the reviews on the back cover, one would assume the book will cast The Simpsons in a philosophical light and that one will obtain a deeper understanding of the show. This is not the case. For the most part, its verbose prattle in the guise of being esoteric. The authors almost force themselves into reading too much into the show. There are a few good points, but the number of them can be counted on both hands. Even the philosophy presented is not a good representation on the subject. For someone who has read The Gospel According to the Simpsons or is looking for an in depth philosophical analysis of the series, this book is largely a disappointment.	2002-08-05
US	50832567	R10VEXYLFPGKI	0664224199	999679637	The Gospel According to The Simpsons:  The Spiritual Life of the World's Most Animated Family	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Examination of Springfield Religion	Mark Pinsky grew up in a Conservative Jewish home and is an experienced writer. Writing for the Orlando Sentinel and specializing in evangelical Christianity, he is able to offer a unique and analytical perspective on religion as it appears in The Simpsons. His topics of examination vary from morality to the afterlife to the established church and even to religions other than Christianity. The book does focus mainly on Christianity and is disserving of its title. One will not come closer to God by any means through reading this book, but one will have a greater appreciation for the show's creators and their development of the residents of Springfield. The Gospel According to the Simpsons casts not necessarily a new light on the characters but rather a much brighter and more penetrating one. The book itself takes a reverent tone toward religion and even portrays, to a point, The Simpsons this way. Pinsky does an excellent job of presenting the spirituality and religion of several characters and the town weather it be pious, hypocritical, indifferent, or of another faith all together. Any fan of the series will appreciate this book and feel a more kindred spirit with the characters as they are made more real. They still remain yellow cartoon characters, but as this book points out, the producers, at times, give them some inner substance.	2002-07-27
US	50832567	R1ORQ5A8LRFDUB	0397472390	56626088	The Great Psychologists	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A Drawn Out History of Psychology	(This review refers to the second edition.) The Great Psychologists is just what the title makes it out to be. The book is an account of the evolution of psychology by examining eminent figures in the times leading up to the development psychology and the men who later devoted themselves to scientific work in the subject. Each chapter examines an individual, a well explained overview of his thinkings, and the cultural and historical contexts in which he worked. The biographies of each person are detailed and seem to be included more for history than science. One gets a definite sense of how psychology came to be. A good background in the subject would be of benefit. This edition is copyrighted in the late 1960s and thus does not go beyond this point in time. It is an old graduate level textbook from when my father was receiving his doctorate. The last chapter very much dates the book. The wording at times can be verbose, and the book itself is very long. The last two chapters seem to lose the reader's interest as the last one especially is a long list of names and fields of study. More current editions of this book would probably be of much more value.	2002-07-13
US	50832567	R8WWF0DQR4FGM	0397472390	56626088	The Great Psychologists	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A Drawn Out History of Psychology	(This review refers to teh second edition.) The Great Psychologists is just what the title makes it out to be. The book is an account of the evolution of psychology by examining eminent figures in the times leading up to the development psychology and the men who later devoted themselves to scientific work in the subject. Each chapter examines an individual, a well explained overview of his thinkings, and the cultural and historical contexts in which he worked. The biographies of each person are detailed and seem to be included more for history than science. One gets a definite sense of how psychology came to be. A good background in the subject would be of benefit. This edition is copyrighted in the late 1960s and thus does not go beyond this point in time. It is an old graduate level textbook from when my father was receiving his doctorate. The last chapter very much dates the book. The wording at times can be verbose, and the book itself is very long. The last two chapters seem to lose the reader's interest as the last one especially is a long list of names and fields of study. More current editions of this book would probably be of much more value.	2002-07-13
US	50832567	R1K2YI4RG5GWVQ	0385036434	822698723	Interior Castle	Books	4	134	139	N	N	Contains Incredible Spiritual Insight	The Interior Castle (or The Mansions as it is known in Spain) compares the soul to a castle filled with many rooms. Each room is an aspect or stage of the soul, and one can progress into and out of each room. The more into the center of this castle one goes, the more his soul is conformed to the will and ways of God. It is the most interior chamber of this castle in which God dwells. The book describes the soul's way of making it to this chamber. St. Teresa focuses her work towards the nuns of her convent, and because of her personal relationship with them, the book is written in her typical conversational tone and humility. She only loosely adheres to the analogy of a castle. However, it contains several morsels of enlightened spiritual knowledge and insight. The principles that are expounded by Teresa testify to her intimacy with the Creator. She spends a great deal of time on mortification and prayer. Written in 1577, it still contains spiritual wisdom that can be applied today to both Catholics and Protestants.	2002-06-11
US	50832567	R1MNTJ55ITWQMM	0880118113	543165850	Triathlon 101	Books	5	48	48	N	N	Excellent True Beginner's Book	This is a great introductory book. After completing one sprint distance triathlon, I read this book. It gives great beginner's training advice from what equipment to buy to how to base train for each event. Everything that you would need to know in order to enter into triathlon training and competition is contained in Triathlon 101. It does seem like it would be too basic for the experienced triathlete, but for a beginner, it is perfect. There is an excellent training schedule for both a sprint and an olympic distance triathlon. There are also blank training log sheets and an appendix for more resources on the sport.	2002-05-29
US	50832567	RMZ79Y2ZDGN3V	0385092393	398217932	Discoveries and Opinions of Galileo	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Galileo's Ideas and Their Defense	The Discoveries and Opinions of Galileo consists of four works by Galileo Galilei: The Starry Messenger, Letters on Sunspots, Letter to the Grand Duchess Christina, and The Assayer. They are each wonderfully translated by Stillman Drake. He omits unnecessary parts of the texts, to prevent verbosity or boredom, while still giving the reader the full sense of each work. Drake is a professor of the History of Science at the University of Toronto. Before each of Galileo's works, Drake gives an introduction which details the circumstances and events prompting Galileo to take up the pen. Drake presents an excellent history of the times and atmosphere along with the political forces that permeated the setting of early seventeenth century Italian academia. One gets a real feel for what Galileo was up against in presenting his ideas in the face of ecclesiastical and philosophical opposition.<br />The Starry Messenger is Galileo's account of his first uses of his homemade telescope. He details his observations of the four newly discovered moons of Jupiter and several stars that can now be seen with the telescope. His Letters on Sunspots are a retort to another astronomer's theories on the nature of the phenomenon. In the Letter to the Grand Duchess Christina, Galileo puts up a staunch defense to the church in his adopting the Copernican heliocentric model of the universe. After being banned from teaching this opinion, Galileo makes a suave effort to communicate his ideas in a defense on the nature of comets in The Assayer.<br />This is the story of Galileo verses old dogma. One cannot help but sympathize with Galileo in his frustration in communicating what he believed to be true. In light of our current knowledge of the solar system and the logical arguments Galileo puts forth it is hard not to feel a bit of the same frustration. This book is a great treatise on Galileo's ideas and his tenacity in defending them. Galileo's Dialogue Concerning the Two Chief World Systems would be an excellent companion to this book. Drake has published a translation of this work also. Galileo's thoughts and observations mark a milestone in the history of astronomy, and Drake's book venerates the man and his teachings.d be an excellent companion to this book. Drake has published a translation of this work also. Galileo's thoughts and observations mark a milestone in the history of astronomy, and Drake's book venerates the man and his teachings.	2002-05-19
US	50832567	RX9UWIZK32B6A	0679428011	489174445	Heart of Darkness (Everyman's Library)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Enjoyable Psychological Journey	The Heart of Darkness is a psychological journey into man's love/lust for and attachment to a savage and surreal wildnerness. The book is filled with exquisite imagery, and each scene's tone is indelibly set by the surroundings. It is also a commentary on colonialism in Conrad's day. I am not as well veresed on this subject as I would have liked to have been before reading the book, but I found the story fully comprehensible and enjoyable even in this regard. The book is a definiate vocabulary builder.	2002-04-24
US	50832567	R1HNNR1LYN3L3D	0300083653	133056465	The Image of Christ	Books	5	4	9	N	N	Wonderful Pictorial and Exposition	The focus of this book is the Collection in Trafalgar Square but is not exclusive to it. It contains works of art that either picture a representation of Christ or allude to Him. I found my reading to be a delightful and awe-inspiring theological journey. Each chapter deals with a different aspect of how Christ is perceived. Several authors have compiled brief descriptions of the works that explain their significance and meaning. The book traces it course through predominately Catholic art. This may have been done mostly out of necesity because the plethera of art from the 13th to 20th centuries is largely by Catholics. However, it would have been nice to see some more Protestant imagery to complete the respesentation of Christ in art.	2002-04-13
US	50832567	RBEMCMMX43KGG	0800612655	931291510	Luther's Ninety-Five Theses	Books	4	41	43	N	N	Luther's Attack on Indulgences	Luther's Ninety-Five Theses were written in direct response to the practice of selling indulgences in the 1500s. This book begins with an introduction explaining the circumstances under which Luther posted his theses. It does a good job of quickly explaining the main points one needs to know before reading the theses. There are sporadic footnotes in the text to clarify some points. I have a protestant background and found Luther's topics to be techincally Catholic. However, I did not feel lost in my reading. It would be of a great advantange to have some knowledge of the Catholicism of the time. The theses mark the start of the Reformation, and a read-through would be beneficial for any student of history or Protestantism. The book itself is very short (18 pages). Luther's Ninety-Five Theses are readily found from any internet search, and this may be a much more cost-effective option. The introduction may be the only benefit of actually buying this edition.	2002-03-26
US	50832567	R3EI7UVRKQYXJS	0385065396	382721346	The Way of Perfection (Image Classics)	Books	5	67	68	N	N	Teresa's Personal Revelation on Prayer	St. Teresa of Avila lived nearly four hundred years ago. Her work, The Way of Perfection, comes very soon after the completion of her autobiography. The way of which she speaks is a life of prayer. The book is addressed to the nuns of whom she is prioress. It is mainly intended for their use, but it is riddled with introspective knowledge on a prayer-filled relationship with God. This book is undoubtedly a work deeply rooted in Catholicism. However, Teresa's own intimate relationship with the Father is one to be marveled by all Christians. She begins her work by laying out the requirements to begin a prayerful life: aesthetic poverty, perfect love, and self-mortification. She follows with a discussion on the contemplative life and vocal and mental prayer. She meticulously dissects the Lord's Prayer and gives her nuns guidance in praying through the Paternoster. She intends to do the same with the Ave Maria but reconciles to let it alone for lack of space.<br />There are two versions of The Way of Perfection: the Escorial version and the Valladolid version. The Escorial version was written first and is directed uniquely toward the nuns of Avila. The edition above comes from the Valladolid text. It is a more formal manuscript intended for a larger audience. The translator and editor E. Allison Peers does a wonderful job of footnoting the differences between the two versions and inserting italicized sections from the Escorial text. The reader is given a feel for both versions in one book. It can be tiresome to constantly refer to footnotes, but a straight read-through is very enjoyable. It is nice to know the footnotes are there for any academic study. Teresa often meanders from her main point and talks at length about issues that her writing leads her to discuss. At first it may seem annoying that her focus is not always succinct, but her conversational tone greatly attests to the intimacy she has with her fellow nuns and with God. In all, The Way of Perfection is a pleasant and inspiring read.leasant and inspiring read.	2002-03-19
US	50832567	R1311AYNDL1YPB	0140445358	514751038	The History of the Church: From Christ to Constantine (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	200	205	N	N	Brief Synopsis	Eusebius lived in the late third and early fourth centuries in Caesarea Palestine. His History of the Church chronicles the time from Christ to the victory of Constantine over Licinius. He wrote in Greek, but this translation Latinizes the names. Eusebius covers the period of Jewish persecution in the early first millennium a.d.; goes through the succession of the bishops of Rome, Antioch, Alexandria, Jerusalem, etc.; gives the account of heretical movements; and gives numerous examples of Christian martyrs in times of persecution. In the back of this edition is an extensive &quot;Who's Who in Eusebius&quot; spanning some 88 pages. It is a very useful tool in the reading of The History of the Church. It may also prove a valuable quick reference in further studies on early Christianity. Eusebius's style allows him to extensively quote several authors and historians in the early first millennium. His ten books of The History of the Church are riddled with passages from Josephus, Origen, Philo, Hegesippus, and the like. Also, behind the Who's Who in Eusebius, are a few appendices. I would highly recommend reading the appendices B, C, and D before undertaking the body of the book. A brief knowledge of the Roman empire at the time and Christianity will greatly benefit the reader.	2002-01-01
US	50832567	R3LE1O8EL67LXT	1577489160	113799572	The Pilgrim's Progress (Deluxe Christian Classics)	Books	5	33	35	N	N	Great Christian Book	The book is told from the third person perspective in the context of a dream. The book is divided into two parts. In the first part, the narrator follows a character named Christian from the time he leaves the City of Destruction and his family, accepting the path Chirst lays out for him, and watches Christian progress through his earthly journey until he reaches Heaven. Many of the elements encountered in the Christian faith are personified as characters that Christian encounters. The second half of the book tells the account of Christian's wife's and children's journey toward Heaven. The margins of the book are filled with scripture references that go along with the story. A good background in protestant theology makes the book much more enjoyable. I found The Pilgram's Progress to be very insightful.	2001-07-16
US	50832567	R2PWI0BY3IQCDW	0590422936	649755475	Ten Great Mysteries by Edgar Allan Poe	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Good Collection of Poe Works	This is a collection of some works by Edgar Allen Poe. The book includes: The Murders in the Rue Morgue, The Purloined Letter, The Tell-Tale Heart, The Facts in the Case of M. Valdemar, The Pit and the Pendulum, A Tale of the Ragged Mountains, A descent into the Maelstrom, The Black Cat, &quot;Thou Art the Man,&quot; and Matzengerstein. It has been some years since I read the book, but I do remember enjoying it.	2001-07-15
