US	50845728	R15N39LFC0FFR9	0446796859	497550285	Malevil	Books	5	19	19	N	N	A post-apocalypse subsistence economy	This book was surprisingly good. The title put me off, since I inferred that it attributed the collapse of civilization to some silly supernatural struggle, like \\"Swan Song\\" by Robert McCammon, which I bought and barely began reading before I dropped it in disappointment. (Not that all supernaturally inspired apocalypses are bad stories: I really liked \\"The Stand\\" by Stephen King.) In fact, Malevil is simply the name of the little French community where the story occurs. It is a pretty good story about a subsistence economy arising after a nuclear holocaust. Unfortunately, you never find out what is happening in the world outside that little community, but it is pretty good nevertheless: there is no backstory about the disintegration or reconstitution of the national government, which is the part that I usually enjoy the most in post-apocalyptic fiction, but there is an amusing thread about the basis for the local ecclesiastical jurisdiction where the protagonist relies on some medieval warrants in order to trump the religious charlatan who has established himself as the ruler in the next town over.	2005-09-03
US	50845728	RAA5RGP4C4MP4	0886879388	49132393	The World Almanac and Book of Facts 2005 (World Almanac and Book of Facts)	Books	4	39	41	N	Y	The standard in almanacs	There are many imitators on the market, some of them quite good, but this almanac has set the standard for more than a century. The New York World newspaper began publishing an almanac in 1868, \\"a 120-page volume with 12 pages of advertising.\\" The newspaper suspended the almanac's publication in 1876, but publisher Joseph Pulitzer revived it in 1886 as a \\"compendium of universal knowledge.\\" The almanac has been published annually since, outliving the newspaper whose name it still bears. (The World Almanac is not the oldest almanac in publication, however: that distinction belongs to The Old Farmer's Almanac, which is \\"North America's oldest continuously published periodical,\\" founded in 1792.)<br /><br />The World Almanac contains much useful information that belongs in any serious basic-reference set. For the world, the almanac presents basic statistics about each nation, and about the world's major religions; and summarizes the world's history, with more detailed histories of the United States and of the preceding year. For the United States, the almanac reprints the nation's organic documents, the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution; lists every community with a population over 5000, with its ZIP code and area code; lists every county (or parish or division) and county seat; contains a directory of the entire Federal government, including Congress and all congressional committees, every executive department, and every court and judge; presents basic statistics about each state and major city, and a short biography of each president; and much more. The almanac also contains bountiful information about education, science, sports, and many other topics. No other single volume offers such a wealth of information on such a variety of subjects.<br /><br />The 2005 edition's biggest drawback is that it went to print too early in 2004, before the November election. Earlier editions contain at least preliminary results from the preceding year's election, but this edition arrived the day after the election, meaning that it must have gone to press weeks earlier. The chronology of the preceding year ends in early October 2004: the last entry is 8 October. (By contrast, the last entry in the 2004 edition was 16 October 2003, and in the 1999 edition was 3 November 1998.) As a result, not only does this edition lack the detailed results from the 2004 Presidential election, but its directory of Congress and of state governments will be out of date during the first week of 2005. Omitting the election returns may have gotten the almanac onto the newsstand a week or two sooner, but the tradeoff hardly seems worth it. The almanac itself, however, is well worth the price.but this edition arrived the day after the election, meaning that it must have gone to press weeks earlier. The chronology of the preceding year ends in early October 2004: the last entry is 8 October. (By contrast, the last entry in the 2004 edition was 16 October 2003, and in the 1999 edition was 3 November 1998.) As a result, not only does this edition lack the detailed results from the 2004 Presidential election, but its directory of Congress and of state governments will be out of date during the first week of 2005. Omitting the election returns may have gotten the almanac onto the newsstand a week or two sooner, but the tradeoff hardly seems worth it. The almanac itself, however, is well worth the price.	2004-11-06
US	50845728	R13EOR9FRJ4VM1	0195161912	265284787	Garner's Modern American Usage	Books	5	152	157	N	Y	A worthy heir to Fowler	For three generations, a single book dominated the market as the authoritative reference in matters of grammar, style, and usage in the English language: &quot;A Dictionary of Modern English Usage&quot; by H.W. Fowler, first published in 1926, ably revised by Sir Ernest Gowers in 1965, and now in its third edition (published 1996). But by the century's last quarter, the modern English language -- particularly its American dialect -- had begun outgrowing Fowler, and several newer guides began competing with it. The third (1996) edition of Fowler was a disappointment, and left the field without a clear leading authority.<br />That gap was filled in 1998, when Bryan A. Garner wrote &quot;A Dictionary of Modern American Usage&quot; (published by the Oxford University Press, which also published Fowler). Finally, someone had written a book that matched Fowler -- not only in its erudition, but also in its accessible style, and even its wry sense of humor. And Garner's book had the advantages of being written both in modern times for a modern audience, and in the United States by an American author about American English. The book is a gem, and as authoritative a reference as you will find in this field in the last several decades (and probably the next several too).<br />&quot;Garner's Modern American Usage&quot; is this oustanding work's second edition, now retitled after its author in view of the acclaim that the first edition earned. A new edition is appearing after only five years because, as Garner explains, &quot;changing usage isn't really the primary basis for a new edition of a usage guide: it's really a question of having had five more years for research.&quot; The payoff shows. And the second edition builds upon the first: the first edition was a dictionary of words in usage, rather than words about usage, and therefore assumed that the reader possessed a certain working knowledge of basic grammatical terms and concepts. For example, the first edition didn't define such basic terms as &quot;sentence,&quot; &quot;phrase,&quot; &quot;clause,&quot; &quot;word,&quot; or &quot;part of speech.&quot; The second edition appends a glossary that defines many such basic concepts. It also appends, as did the first edition, an 11-page chronology of books about usage, which illustrates both the rich tradition that Garner's work joins, as well as the tremendous resources upon which he drew in producing this magnum opus.fine such basic terms as &quot;sentence,&quot; &quot;phrase,&quot; &quot;clause,&quot; &quot;word,&quot; or &quot;part of speech.&quot; The second edition appends a glossary that defines many such basic concepts. It also appends, as did the first edition, an 11-page chronology of books about usage, which illustrates both the rich tradition that Garner's work joins, as well as the tremendous resources upon which he drew in producing this magnum opus.	2003-12-16
US	50845728	R2H2HEQUV8X4PR	0195078535	771616217	A Dictionary of Modern American Usage	Books	5	14	15	N	Y	A worthy heir to Fowler	For three generations, a single book dominated the market as the authoritative reference in matters of grammar, style, and usage in the English language: &quot;A Dictionary of Modern English Usage&quot; by H.W. Fowler, first published in 1926, ably revised by Sir Ernest Gowers in 1965, and now in its third edition (published 1996). But by the century's last quarter, the modern English language -- particularly its American dialect -- had begun outgrowing Fowler, and several newer guides began competing with it. The third (1996) edition of Fowler was a disappointment, and left the field without a clear leading authority.<br />That gap was filled in 1998, when Bryan A. Garner wrote &quot;A Dictionary of Modern American Usage&quot; (published by the Oxford University Press, which also published Fowler). Finally, someone had written a book that matched Fowler -- not only in its erudition, but also in its accessible style, and even its wry sense of humor. And Garner's book had the advantages of being written both in modern times for a modern audience, and in the United States by an American author about American English. The book is a gem, and as authoritative a reference as you will find in this field in the last several decades (and probably the next several too).<br />&quot;DMAU&quot; went into a second edition in 2003, under the title &quot;Garner's Modern American Usage,&quot; renamed after its author in view of the acclaim that the first edition earned. A new edition was appearing after only five years because, as Garner explains in the second edition, &quot;changing usage isn't really the primary basis for a new edition of a usage guide: it's really a question of having had five more years for research.&quot; The second edition builds upon the first: the first edition was a dictionary of words in usage, rather than words about usage, and therefore assumed that the reader possessed a certain working knowledge of basic grammatical terms and concepts. For example, the first edition didn't define such basic terms as &quot;sentence,&quot; &quot;phrase,&quot; &quot;clause,&quot; &quot;word,&quot; or &quot;part of speech.&quot; The second edition appends a glossary that defines many such basic concepts, in addition to many new or expanded entries in the dictionary itself.first edition didn't define such basic terms as &quot;sentence,&quot; &quot;phrase,&quot; &quot;clause,&quot; &quot;word,&quot; or &quot;part of speech.&quot; The second edition appends a glossary that defines many such basic concepts, in addition to many new or expanded entries in the dictionary itself.	2003-12-06
US	50845728	R1VHU2BG6UHW2R	0195161912	265284787	Garner's Modern American Usage	Books	5	18	19	N	Y	A worthy heir to Fowler	For three generations, a single book dominated the market as the authoritative reference in matters of grammar, style, and usage in the English language: \\"A Dictionary of Modern English Usage\\" by H.W. Fowler, first published in 1926, ably revised by Sir Ernest Gowers in 1965, and now in its third edition (published 1996). But by the century's last quarter, the modern English language -- particularly its American dialect -- had begun outgrowing Fowler, and several newer guides began competing with it. The third (1996) edition of Fowler was a disappointment, and left the field without a clear leading authority.<br />That gap was filled in 1998, when Bryan A. Garner wrote \\"A Dictionary of Modern American Usage\\" (published by the Oxford University Press, which also published Fowler). Finally, someone had written a book that matched Fowler -- not only in its erudition, but also in its accessible style, and even its wry sense of humor. And Garner's book had the advantages of being written both in modern times for a modern audience, and in the United States by an American author about American English. The book is a gem, and as authoritative a reference as you will find in this field in the last several decades (and probably the next several too).<br />\\"Garner's Modern American Usage\\" is this oustanding work's second edition, now retitled after its author in view of the acclaim that the first edition earned. A new edition is appearing after only five years because, as Garner explains, \\"changing usage isn't really the primary basis for a new edition of a usage guide: it's really a question of having had five more years for research.\\" The payoff shows. And the second edition builds upon the first: the first edition was a dictionary of words in usage, rather than words about usage, and therefore assumed that the reader possessed a certain working knowledge of basic grammatical terms and concepts. For example, the first edition didn't define such basic terms as \\"sentence,\\" \\"phrase,\\" \\"clause,\\" \\"word,\\" or \\"part of speech.\\" The second edition appends a glossary that defines many such basic concepts. It also appends, as did the first edition, an 11-page chronology of books about usage, which illustrates both the rich tradition that Garner's work joins, as well as the tremendous resources upon which he drew in producing this magnum opus.	2003-11-26
US	50845728	RJJCRJ0F9PW4A	0886879108	839139642	The World Almanac and Book of Facts 2004	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	The standard in almanacs	There are many imitators on the market, some of them quite good, but this almanac has set the standard for more than a century. The New York World newspaper began publishing an almanac in 1868, &quot;a 120-page volume with 12 pages of advertising.&quot; The newspaper suspended the almanac's publication in 1876, but publisher Joseph Pulitzer revived it in 1886 as a &quot;compendium of universal knowledge.&quot; The almanac has been published annually since, outliving the newspaper whose name it still bears. (The World Almanac is not the oldest almanac in publication, however: that distinction belongs to The Old Farmer's Almanac, which is &quot;North America's oldest continuously published periodical,&quot; founded in 1792.)<br />The World Almanac contains much useful information that belongs in any serious basic-reference set. For the world, the almanac presents basic statistics about each nation, and about the world's major religions; and summarizes the world's history, with more detailed histories of the United States and of the preceding year. For the United States, the almanac reprints the nation's organic documents, the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution; lists every community with a population over 5000, with its ZIP code and area code; lists every county (or parish or division) and county seat; contains a directory of the entire Federal government, including Congress and all congressional committees, every executive department, and every court and judge; presents basic statistics about each state and major city, and a short biography of each president; and much more. The almanac also contains bountiful information about education, science, sports, and many other topics. No other single volume offers such a wealth of information on such a variety of subjects.	2003-11-13
US	50845728	RNU44AF0GY5N4	0886878829	209015909	The World Almanac and Book of Facts 2003	Books	5	15	16	N	Y	The standard in almanacs	There are many imitators on the market, some of them quite good, but this almanac has set the standard for more than a century. The New York World newspaper began publishing an almanac in 1868, \\"a 120-page volume with 12 pages of advertising.\\" The newspaper suspended the almanac's publication in 1876, but publisher Joseph Pulitzer revived it in 1886 as a \\"compendium of universal knowledge.\\" The almanac has been published annually since, outliving the newspaper whose name it still bears. (The World Almanac is not the oldest almanac in publication, however: that distinction belongs to The Old Farmer's Almanac, which is \\"North America's oldest continuously published periodical,\\" founded in 1792.)<br />The World Almanac contains much useful information that belongs in any serious basic-reference set. For the world, the almanac presents basic statistics about each nation, and about the world's major religions; and summarizes the world's history, with more detailed histories of the United States and of the preceding year. For the United States, the almanac reprints the nation's organic documents, the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution; lists every community with a population over 5000, with its ZIP code and area code; lists every county (or parish or division) and county seat; contains a directory of the entire Federal government, including Congress and all congressional committees, every executive department, and every court and judge; presents basic statistics about each state and major city, and a short biography of each president; and much more. The almanac also contains bountiful information about education, science, sports, and many other topics. No other single volume offers such a wealth of information on such a variety of subjects.	2002-11-14
US	50845728	R212GZD4YZ7GDA	0375707425	580961678	Embers	Books	5	12	15	N	Y	Dinner until dawn, more than 40 years after	Henrik and Konrad, inseparable companions from boyhood through their thirties, meet again for one last time in their old age--more than 40 years after they last saw each other and the woman who came between them. They talk from dinner until dawn, seated at the same places where they had last sat together in their youth, as they explore the mystery of a few taut days more than four decades earlier that broke their relationship and bent their lives. Those events, which neither man fully understands, illuminate questions of friendship and love, loyalty and betrayal, honor and truth--which the two men explore for a night by dying firelight until morning parts them forever.<br />The author, Sandor Marai, was a celebrated Hungarian novelist before World War II. But he fled abroad when the postwar Communist government suppressed his work, including this book. Exiled and forgotten, he committed suicide in California in 1989, a year before this book was republished in Hungary. All his novels are now scheduled for republication and translation.	2002-11-12
US	50845728	R18U4M9EHOGX1R	0805032665	566386961	Father's Day: A Novel	Books	2	4	6	N	Y	Overreaches a good premise	\\"Father's Day\\" starts with a good premise: the tension between an elected President who has voluntarily taken a leave of absence under the disability clause of the twenty-fifth amendment, and the Vice President who has been acting as President during the disability. Two years after winning a landslide, but with his \\"approval rating . . . plunged to a post-Cold War low\\" and his marriage disintegrating, President Theodore G. Jay \\"collapsed with a disability diagnosed as a major depressive episode.\\" For five months, Vice President T.E. Garland acts as President while Jay recuperates. Then Jay decides that he is rested and ready for resuming his office. But Garland, enjoying the office and its power, is reluctant about handing them back. And Garland has been accumulating quite a few friends while he has been running the country.<br />That premise would have made for a good, fast-paced, tense political drama. But author John Calvin Batchelor takes it too far: instead of weaving a plausible story out of politics and psychology, he opts for cheap but implausible thrills. The denouement is unsubtly foreshadowed in the first three pages, so I am giving nothing away by telling you that the first chapter opens with an unquestioningly obedient military rehearsing for an assault upon Air Force One, ending in an assassination. To Batchelor's credit, he gets the law right, and his application of the twenty-fifth amendment's provisions for a political contest between a disabled President and a Vice President acting as President is unimpeachable (no pun intended). But once the story steps outside politics and into action-adventure, reality bites the dust, and the story takes a turn so far-fetched that it ruins what may otherwise have been a good book.	2002-03-10
US	50845728	RLAUCXU55NEES	0674363361	849561444	Grooming, Gossip, and the Evolution of Language	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	Language as a proxy for intimacy	Professor Dunbar's thesis is that language evolved as a substitute for physical intimacy (grooming, not sex) as the basis for bonding a social group.  As human communities grew too large for each member to personally groom each other member, we developed language as a means of &quot;grooming&quot; verbally, if not physically, a greater number of companions.  The structure of language, including the words that we use, is designed for the purpose of advancing the social and sociological goals of the communities and individuals who use them.  Very thoughtful and thought-provoking.	2002-01-11
US	50845728	R386AZ53JKGZSX	2070374440	354926009	Malevil (Folio) (English and French Edition)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A post-apocalypse subsistence economy	This book was surprisingly good. The title put me off, since I inferred that it attributed the collapse of civilization to some silly supernatural struggle, like &quot;Swan Song&quot; by Robert McCammon, which I bought and barely began reading before I dropped it in disappointment. (Not that all supernaturally inspired apocalypses are bad stories: I really liked &quot;The Stand&quot; by Stephen King.) In fact, Malevil is simply the name of the little French community where the story occurs. It is a pretty good story about a subsistence economy arising after a nuclear holocaust. Unfortunately, you never find out what is happening in the world outside that little community, but it is pretty good nevertheless: there is no backstory about the disintegration or reconstitution of the national government, which is the part that I usually enjoy the most in post-apocalyptic fiction, but there is an amusing thread about the basis for the local ecclesiastical jurisdiction where the protagonist relies on some medieval warrants in order to trump the religious charlatan who has established himself as the ruler in the next town over.	2002-01-07
US	50845728	R2M09AE2FRNCIC	0380701340	229060489	A Creed for the Third Millennium	Books	3	20	21	N	N	Sophomoric, but well-written and engaging	You know the story.  The child Jesus Christ is born during the reign of Caesar Augustus, despite the efforts of the local monarch Herod.  He reaches adulthood during the reign of Augustus's hand-picked successor Tiberius, and preaches a message of spiritual renewal to an oppressed population.  His apostle Judas Iscariot acts as his ministry's manager, but later betrays him to the government.  The story is later told for the ages by a Gentile named Luke.<br />This book translates that story into the not-too-distant future.  Unfortunately the translation is rather sophomoric.  Dr. Joshua Christian (Jesus Christ) is born during the presidency of Augustus &quot;Gus&quot; Rome.  His story unfolds during the presidency of Augustus's hand-picked successor Tibor Reece (Tiberius), when the government invents &quot;Operation Messiah&quot; in order to bring a message of spiritual renewal to an oppressed citizenry, despite the reluctance of Cabinet secretary Harold Magnus (Herod).  Christian's advocate Judith Carrioll (Judas Iscariot) manages the project, to his ultimate detriment, while hired biographer Lucy Greco (Luke the Greek) tells his story for the masses.<br />&quot;Creed&quot; is both less and more than a simple analogy for a time-transplanted gospel.  Despite the many unsubtle analogies to the New Testament, &quot;Operation Messiah&quot; does not follow--cannot follow--the story of Jesus too literally, so author Colleen McCullough experiments with twists on the story in its twenty-first-century setting.  Sometimes her twists makes sense, but more often they do not, and they leave the reader wondering where she was trying to go with her story.  She may not have known herself.  But she paints an interesting twenty-first-century America, despairing over climatic and economic changes, whose government goes searching for someone &quot;capable of teaching a sick nation how to heal itself&quot; and finds--then elevates--a made-to-order messiah.<br />Even though this book slathers on the parallel names and other biblical analogs a little too thickly, I did enjoy it.  The plot left much to be desired, but the writing was very good, the narrative flowed easily (even when the author seemed unsure about where it was flowing to), and the story was occasionally thought-provoking.  The book was not deep, but it was engaging, and in the end a satisfying read if you are looking for entertainment and not philosophy.thers on the parallel names and other biblical analogs a little too thickly, I did enjoy it.  The plot left much to be desired, but the writing was very good, the narrative flowed easily (even when the author seemed unsure about where it was flowing to), and the story was occasionally thought-provoking.  The book was not deep, but it was engaging, and in the end a satisfying read if you are looking for entertainment and not philosophy.	2001-12-29
US	50845728	RXRDQLIZVFUVO	0672511606	796857932	One Heartbeat Away: Presidential Disability and Succession	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Rare insight from a modern Framer	Few living Americans can claim credit for the Constitution in the way that Birch Bayh can.  Bayh, then a first-term senator from Indiana, chaired the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Constitutional Amendments at the time of President Kennedy's assassination.  Vice President Johnson's succession to the Presidency left a vacancy in the vice presidency--a situation that had occurred after the other seven vice-presidential successions, but that was suddenly far less acceptable in the nuclear era, with a Cold War on.  The crisis was exacerbated because the next two successors in line for the Presidency were 71-year-old House Speaker John McCormack and 86-year-old Senate President pro tem Carl Hayden, who had been chosen for reasons other than their fitness as Presidential successors.<br />The crisis was solved (up to a point, at least) by the twenty-fifth amendment, which was proposed in 1965 and ratified in 1967.  &quot;One Heartbeat Away&quot; tells the story of the amendment's drafting, proposal, and ratification, which Senator Bayh presided over and shepherded.  This book offers a rare insight, practically unique in modern times, into successfully resolving a structural dilemma of modern government by means of amending the Constitution.  Presidents Eisenhower and Johnson, who were both very engaged in the issues and the process, contributed prefaces.<br />If you are interested in the twenty-fifth amendment and its legislative history, I also recommend &quot;The 25th Amendment&quot; by John D. Feerick.  If you are interested in Presidential succession and disability generally, I recommend &quot;Presidential Succession&quot; by Ruth C. Silva and &quot;From Failing Hands&quot; by John D. Feerick.	2001-12-23
US	50845728	R1ZYYYFSOXXTQZ	0060124369	93487940	Seven Days in May	Books	5	33	33	N	N	Coup d'etat: It can't happen here . . . or can it?	A coup d'etat in the United States?  A visionary pacifist President gets a disarmament treaty ratified, over the military's opposition, and is about to begin implementing it despite widespread public apprehension and disapproval.  Some top military and congressional leaders, led by the charismatic general who chairs the Joint Chiefs of Staff, join forces in taking advantage of the President's political weakness--but what are they planning, and how far will they go?  The general's aide begins connecting certain ominous clues, suspects the worst, and shares his fears with the President.  Then the battle is joined: the President and a small inner circle must not only figure out whether there is a conspiracy but, if there is one, must neutralize it--all before a blow that might fall at any time, all without provoking the conspirators into premature action, and all without falling prey to a paranoia that will itself furnish the pretext for bringing down the President even if there never was any conspiracy.<br />The writing is tight and dramatic.  &quot;Seven Days in May&quot; was adapted to the big screen in a 1964 film starring Kirk Douglas and Burt Lancaster, and again thirty years later in a 1994 made-for-television movie starring Forrest Tucker.  Both versions do justice to the novel.<br />If you enjoy &quot;Seven Days in May,&quot; you may also enjoy &quot;Night of Camp David,&quot; also by Fletcher Knebel.  &quot;Night of Camp David&quot; largely follows the same formula as &quot;Seven Days in May,&quot; but the issue is presidential incapacity rather than a coup d'etat.	2001-12-23
US	50845728	R3DI0722U45RBC	0451147553	975126019	Nine billion names (Signet)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Arthur C. Clarke's best short stories	Arthur C. Clarke is best known for his novels, especially &quot;2001: A Space Odyssey&quot; and &quot;Rendezvous with Rama,&quot; which each spawned three sequels.  But throughout his early career in the 1950s and 1960s, the tail end of science fiction's &quot;golden age,&quot; Clarke was more successful as a writer of short fiction.  This book collects his best stories, or at least his own favorites.  As Clarke himself acknowledges in his introduction, &quot;Every author must have his favorite stories, though he would often be hard put to give reasons for his preferences.  Sometimes these may be completely illogical--or at least unliterary.  A story written at a time and place associated with pleasant memories may be more highly rated, in retrospect, than a much better tale provoked by unhappiness or penury--the two great sponsors of art.&quot;<br />But Clarke's choices largely jibe with mine.  They are drawn from five earlier collections: &quot;Expedition to Earth&quot; (1953), &quot;Reach for Tomorrow&quot; (1956), &quot;The Other Side of the Sky&quot; (1959), &quot;Tales of Ten Worlds&quot; (1962), and &quot;The Wind from the Sun&quot; (1972).  Here you will find &quot;The Sentinel,&quot; which Clarke and director Stanley Kubrick expanded into the epic &quot;2001.&quot;  And the often anthologized &quot;The Star,&quot; in which an astronomical discovery challenges a believer's faith.  And &quot;Superiority,&quot; a parable about too much reliance on technological innovation.  And &quot;Death and the Senator,&quot; which is perhaps not quite science fiction, about power coming to terms with mortality.  And the title story, a whimsical yet disturbing speculation about humankind's purpose in the divine plan.  And . . . twenty more gems of short fiction.  (The only omission that I regret is &quot;Hate,&quot; which appears only in &quot;Tales of Ten Worlds.&quot;)<br />Despite a hardcover re-release in 1996, this excellent collection is still hard to find.  But I still recommend it over &quot;The Collected Stories of Arthur C. Clarke&quot; (2001) because, while that collection contains all the stories in this collection, &quot;Nine Billion Names&quot; presents the stories in their original form while &quot;Collected Stories&quot; is rife with editorial and typographical errors and omissions.ll recommend it over &quot;The Collected Stories of Arthur C. Clarke&quot; (2001) because, while that collection contains all the stories in this collection, &quot;Nine Billion Names&quot; presents the stories in their original form while &quot;Collected Stories&quot; is rife with editorial and typographical errors and omissions.	2001-12-23
US	50845728	RMXQVWAPLQ3XR	0060124202	673421604	Night of Camp David	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Doubting a president's sanity	President Mark Hollenbach is at the top of his game on the eve of his campaign for a second term.  But a scandal has disgraced his vice-president, so he needs a new running mate, and turns to first-term senator Jim MacVeagh.  But as the President courts MacVeagh, revealing confidential plans for his next administration, MacVeagh begins doubting--first the President's judgment, then his sanity.  MacVeigh reluctantly confides his doubts to a few carefully chosen colleagues, who doubt MacVeagh more than they doubt the President.  But when the President schedules a summit with the wily Soviet leader, the question of Hollenbach's mental health becomes critical, and MacVeagh must air the doubts that may bring him down instead of Hollenbach.<br />&quot;Night of Camp David&quot; is clearly a product of its time.  Written while the twenty-fifth amendment was pending but before its ratification, it treats the issues that the amendment addressed: how the government functions when its head can't handle the job but also can't recognize, or can't admit, his or her own incapacity.  Those issues were particularly relevant when Knebel began writing the novel because Lyndon Johnson had recently succeeded to the Presidency after President Kennedy's assassination, the vice-presidency was vacant, and the next two successors were 71-year-old House Speaker John McCormack and 86-year-old Senate President pro tem Carl Hayden.  (The novel also brings down a vice-president over a scandal involving construction contracts, almost a decade before the kickback scandal that brought down Vice-President Agnew.)  But the issues are just as relevant today as they were almost forty years ago, even though they no longer engage the public's attention as they did in the mid-1960s.<br />&quot;Night of Camp David&quot; also follows the successful formula of its author's successful &quot;Seven Days in May&quot;: a loyal subordinate begins doubting his larger-than-life superior, and must persuade a skeptical establishment about his doubts before the nation suffers irreparable damage.  &quot;Night of Camp David&quot; is not quite as dramatic or suspenseful as &quot;Seven Days in May,&quot; but its plot is equally intricate, and if you liked one then you will almost surely like the other.establishment about his doubts before the nation suffers irreparable damage.  &quot;Night of Camp David&quot; is not quite as dramatic or suspenseful as &quot;Seven Days in May,&quot; but its plot is equally intricate, and if you liked one then you will almost surely like the other.	2001-12-23
US	50845728	R19C1802336QHV	0521091853	345054810	The Forms of Action at Common Law: A Course of Lectures	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Connecting the dots from a dim past	F.W. Maitland is a genius at showing how the present got here out of the dim past.  To do so, he takes the reader to an ancient age when the &quot;common law&quot; that today we take for granted was still forming, and where the modern reader can barely recognize--let alone comprehend--the assumptions according to which the English people of a millennium ago lived their lives, ran their businesses, and settled their disputes.  A subject seeking to right a wrong had few choices: submit to such archaic processes as trial by battle, trial by ordeal, or wager of law, on the one hand; or petition the crown for special, personal relief.  The sovereign powers of judging and legislating were still undifferentiated, so obtaining judicial relief from the crown was an extraordinary process, almost as cumbersome as enacting general legislation.  This book tells how the extraordinary process of royal justice evolved into the ordinary manner of settling private disputes, eventually supplanting the more barbaric forms of justice that previously held sway (although those forms were not fully abolished until the nineteenth century).<br />To commence a lawsuit in order to resolve a private dispute may seem perfectly routine today, but it was a fairly new concept in ancient England--at least at the level of the national government--and it did not grow up overnight.  Ancient justice was usually a private, local matter, where the feudal lord held court and physical or economic power was often more important than law or right.  The idea gradually developed that certain matters fell within the &quot;king's peace,&quot; where the central government would consistently administer a generally applied policy without respect to wealth or power.  These cases were at first exceptions to the rule of local justice, and so the &quot;forms of action&quot; grew up as the precise technical procedures by which the petitioner invoked the royal writ against local feudal lord's court.  The local nobility was naturally jealous of any royal encroachment, so the forms of action were narrow and technical, and any deviation from the precise formula was fatal to the petitioner's case.  Gradually, more and more cases fell within the king's peace, the writs grew more flexible, and--over the next half a millennium--the right of petitioning the central government for the redress of grievances became so common that the fledgling United States recognized it in the first amendment.  But that process was a long slow painful one, and Maitland unmasks it with great care and detail, so that the evolution of an ancient and alien system of justice into the familiar modern system is evident to the modern reader.<br />If you are interested in the evolution of the English system of parliamentary government from the feudal era to the present, I also recommend Maitland's &quot;Constitutional History of England.&quot;s naturally jealous of any royal encroachment, so the forms of action were narrow and technical, and any deviation from the precise formula was fatal to the petitioner's case.  Gradually, more and more cases fell within the king's peace, the writs grew more flexible, and--over the next half a millennium--the right of petitioning the central government for the redress of grievances became so common that the fledgling United States recognized it in the first amendment.  But that process was a long slow painful one, and Maitland unmasks it with great care and detail, so that the evolution of an ancient and alien system of justice into the familiar modern system is evident to the modern reader.<br />If you are interested in the evolution of the English system of parliamentary government from the feudal era to the present, I also recommend Maitland's &quot;Constitutional History of England.&quot;	2001-12-23
US	50845728	R2SICML4KXQW93	068484866X	801180151	About Time: 12 Short Stories	Books	5	107	109	N	Y	The time-travel pioneer's classic shorts	Jack Finney, writing in the late 1950s and early 1960s, was hardly the first writer who explored time travel; after all, H.G. Wells wrote &quot;The Time Machine&quot; more than half a century earlier, and that classic was already being turned into a movie as Finney was writing his short stories.  But Finney defined the time-travel story as no other writer has.  When you read these stories, they will seem familiar to you--perhaps because you have read them before, as many of them have appeared in other anthologies; but perhaps because so many other writers have imitated Finney, all without surpassing him.<br />Here you will find &quot;The Third Level,&quot; about a mysterious platform in Grand Central Station that leads into another world (a precursor of &quot;Level Nine and Three-quarters&quot; in the &quot;Harry Potter&quot; books).  And &quot;Of Missing Persons,&quot; the classic tale of lost faith and missed opportunities.  And &quot;The Coin Collector,&quot; about alternate realities, where &quot;a Woodrow Wilson dime&quot; reveals that &quot;every once in a while something from one of these worlds . . . will stray into another one.&quot;<br />Jack Finney wasn't the first, but he was the best.  His stories weave together O. Henry's story-telling talent (and surprise-twist endings), Rod Serling's imagination, and Ray Bradbury's skill at juxtaposing the familiar with the slightly terrifying.  This book's stories are a treat.	2001-12-22
US	50845728	R29VO7HZ8E2GL4	0877797099	649336797	Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Just right: the convenient version of a brand-name standard	The name &quot;Webster's&quot; long ago passed into the public domain, but three dictionaries--and the Merriam-Webster brand--survive as the lineal descendants of Noah Webster's original nineteenth-century dictionaries, the first dictionaries of American English, which have been in print continuously for almost two centuries.  The 215,000-word &quot;Collegiate Dictionary,&quot; now in its tenth edition, is the conveniently abridged harback version of the brand-name standard.  The other versions are the 445,000-word &quot;Webster's Third New International Dictionary Unabridged,&quot; which &quot;Collegiate Dictionary&quot; abridges; and the 70,000-word pocket-sized paperback, whose contents are a subset of this version.<br />If the unabridged version is too much, and the pocket-sized paperback is too little, this version is just right.  I keep the paperback version handy on my desk for ready reference (along with a thesaurus, a style manual, and a usage dictionary).  But on the shelf nearby, within easy reach, I keep a more extensive basic reference set, including the heftier hardbound &quot;Collegiate Dictionary.&quot;  When clear and simple communication is the goal, this version is a good check against writing that is getting too high and mighty; if a word does not appear here, I think twice about using it, keeping in mind the Fowler brothers' first &quot;general principle&quot; of good writing: &quot;Prefer the familiar word to the far-fetched.&quot;<br />If you are buying one and only one dictionary, go with this version: it is more complete than the paperback version, yet stays within the realm of familiar words.  But if you can manage, I recommend also stocking the paperback version.  Keep the hardbound version on the shelf, within reach, and consult it as necessary; and keep the paperback version at your fingertips for readier, more routine reference.	2001-12-22
US	50845728	R2G1007SDKSSFB	0738203076	632486563	Robert's Rules of Order (Newly Revised, 10th Edition)	Books	5	152	156	N	Y	The real Robert's: the authority on parliamentary procedure	As a lawyer, when I am asked about proper procedure at a meeting, my first question is: What rules do you use? Is there an applicable statute, or bylaws or rules that the organization has adopted? Nine times out of ten, the answer is: &quot;Robert's Rules of Order.&quot; Robert's is the most widely used parliamentary manual in the United States.<br />General Henry M. Robert published the original &quot;Robert's Rules&quot; in 1875 and 1876 and, since the copyright on that edition (and the next few editions) has long since expired, there are numerous unofficial editions on the market. The third edition, published in 1893, is still marketed in paperback by more than one publisher as the &quot;original&quot; Robert's Rules. With the copyright expired, even the name &quot;Robert's&quot; has passed into the public domain, and many imitators have slapped the name &quot;Robert's&quot; on books of parliamentary procedure that bear minimal relation to General Robert's work (much as many dictionaries claim the name &quot;Webster's&quot; without any connection to Noah Webster or the Merriam-Webster brand that carries on his work).  This book is the real Robert's, composed by an editorial board appointed by General Robert's heirs (including his descendants Sarah and Henry III, both eminent parliamentarians). Now in its tenth edition, published in 2000, this book &quot;supersedes all previous editions and is intended automatically become the parliamentary authority in organizations whose bylaws prescribe 'Robert's Rules of Order' . . . or the like, without specifying a particular edition.&quot;<br />Robert's is not necessarily the best parliamentary manual on the market: &quot;Modern Parliamentary Procedure&quot; by Ray Keesey is far more logical and user-friendly, and &quot;The Standard Code of Parliamentary Procedure&quot; by Alice Sturgis (commissioned by the American Institute of Parliamentarians as a contemporary alternative to Robert's) is more readable and more rooted in modern practice. But no other book has gained as much as a toehold in Robert's dominance in the market. If you are interested in parliamentary procedure, or figuring out how most organizations work in the twenty-first-century United States, this Robert's is indispensable.modern practice. But no other book has gained as much as a toehold in Robert's dominance in the market. If you are interested in parliamentary procedure, or figuring out how most organizations work in the twenty-first-century United States, this Robert's is indispensable.	2001-12-22
US	50845728	R2GD3R26978V6S	0440048478	929030541	Line of Succession	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Presidential succession in an action-adventure context	This book, written about thirty years ago, is an action-adventure novel dealing with issues of presidential succession and disability.  The book raises issues that could easily arise today, probably (but not necessarily) in a less dramatic context.  The vice-president and speaker are killed in a terrorist attack, the president-elect is kidnapped then killed, and the president pro tem is politically unacceptable to both political parties, so the defeated outgoing president schemes to amend the Presidential Succession Act so that he can stay in office instead of handing over power.  (The book sidesteps a potential problem with the twenty-second amendment because the outgoing president has served only one term.)  The action is plausible, and the author correctly applies the relevant constitutional and legal provisions without letting them get in the story's way.  A good, fast, provocative read that, even after thirty years, requires little suspension of disbelief.	2001-12-22
US	50845728	R2L5MDA6OARJGI	0345341848	978326405	Finite and Infinite Games: A Vision of Life as Play and Possibility	Books	5	129	134	N	Y	Practically a unified-field theory of human relationships	Professor Carse writes in the first chapter, &quot;There are at least two kinds of games.  One could be called finite, the other infinite.  A finite game is played for the purpose of winning, an infinite game for the purpose of continuing the play.&quot;  From that beginning he broadly defines &quot;game&quot; in a way that includes, defines, and lays an analytical foundation for all relationships.  The book's subtitle is &quot;A Vision of Life as Play and Possibility,&quot; and it is a profound work, practically a unified-field theory of human relationships.<br />For example, the book contains an interesting theory about sexuality, as being either a finite game (§§ 54-59) or an infinite game (§§ 60-62).  The contrast between perceiving sexual relationships as finite or infinite is startling.  On a broader (yet surprisingly even more personal) level, in his chapter titled &quot;A Finite Game Occurs Within a World&quot; (ch. 4), Carse explores the individual's struggle with defining, regarding, and regulating the world around oneself in a way that includes everyone around one, or just oneself alone.<br />The first step in appreciating this book is understanding that any relationship or process can be characterized in &quot;finite&quot; or &quot;infinite&quot; terms.  The second step is recognizing that that characterization is almost always a matter of choice and that, by choosing to characterize a relationship as &quot;infinite,&quot; one can redefine it in a meaningful and healthy way.  After reading this book, you may never look at the world around you, or at any relationship, or at yourself in quite the same way.  This book reconfigures thinking about interpersonal reality as deeply as Kuhn's &quot;Structure of Scientific Revolutions&quot; reconfigured thinking about the scientific method.	2001-12-22
US	50845728	R2EJKG1CYXZ3ZZ	0871698749	754393871	The Mace and the Gavel: Symbols of Government in America (Transactions of the American Philosophical Society)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Metaphors for a divided government	The title refers not to maces and gavels in general, but to a particular mace and a particular gavel: the mace used by the United States House of Representatives, and the gavel used by the United States Senate's presiding officer.  The &quot;gavel&quot; is not the kind that comes to mind nowadays when one thinks of a gavel, like an auctioneer or a judge would use; instead it is an ivory pestle, with no handle.<br />The mace was a symbol of the House of Commons, and this book's first chapter traces the mace's historical development from a weapon of battle, to the Roman fasces, to a proxy for the monarch in the Commons, through its adoption in the British American colonies as a symbol of legislative authority and, ultimately, as a symbol of the House of Representatives.  The book tells the story both of the mace itself (actually the House is now using its third mace) and of its actual use for restoring order in the unruly House.  The anecdotes about order and disorder in the Congress are sometimes amusing, sometimes pathetic, often both.  The history of the Senate's gavel is less detailed and less amusing, but equally full of symbolism.<br />This book's real interest for me was its illustration of the separation between the two houses.  A cynic might expect that a powerful faction or party could run roughshod over the Constitution's checks and balances by simply dominating both houses.  This book shows how each house has proceeded in utter disregard of the other when developing its internal institutions, symbols, and traditions, and thereby implies the jealousy with which each house guards its independence.  The mace and the gavel are themselves metaphors for a divided government.  Alone, they each symbolize the house that uses them; but together they represent the Framers' wisdom in dividing the Federal power among several separated institutions sharing authority.	2001-12-22
US	50845728	R13NQ7J0W9K06E	0812533313	787762089	The Worthing Saga	Books	5	16	19	N	Y	Card will grip your imagination and intellect	Orson Scott Card is perhaps the greatest living science-fiction writer still writing.  This book is prime evidence.<br />The &quot;saga&quot; weaves together two series of short stories that Card developed, in parallel and in tandem, over serveral years and in several incarnations.  The core series concerns an interstellar human empire (loosely modeled, as Card freely acknowledges, after the First Galactic Empire in Asimov's &quot;Foundation&quot; series) that revolves around the drug &quot;somec,&quot; which lets one live life a few years or a year or a day at a time, skipping over the intervening years.  (The &quot;somec&quot; stories were originally published in earlier collections, &quot;Capitol&quot; and &quot;Hot Sleep.&quot;)  One's economic and social status depends on one's level of somec, which determines how quickly or slowly one moves through not only life, but history.  The first &quot;somec&quot; story, &quot;Skipping Stones,&quot; sets the scene: two boyhood friends take two paths, one becoming an artist who lives out his life in ordinary time, the other an entrepreneur who spaces out his life for as long as he can afford.  The artist pictures himself immersed in life: &quot;I like to swim.  It gets me wet.  It wears me out.&quot;  But his wealthy friend dips into the world only from time to time, and the world moves on without him; when he dips back into the world, it is for him as if only a moment has passed since he last landed there, but his friend has been living a full life and the world has been living a whole history between his awakenings.<br />The other series concerns the &quot;Forest of Waters,&quot; home of a community exiled from the stagnating somec-driven universe, guided at first by a godlike ancestor with paranormal psychic powers.  While the somec stories are subtle parables, these other stories are much more direct inquiries into pain, suffering, and their role not only in human society but in a universe watched over by an aware deity.<br />Card describes this book as &quot;the most structurally complex yet thematically unified of my works of fiction.&quot;  The &quot;thematic unity&quot; that weaves together all the book's multifaceted stories is indeed masterful, easily surpassing Card's &quot;The Folk of the Fringe,&quot; a masterpiece in its own right.  &quot;The Worthing Saga&quot; is a compelling read, one that will grip your imagination and intellect long after you have finished it.  I reread it every few years, and enjoy it just as much with each reacquaintance.ity.<br />Card describes this book as &quot;the most structurally complex yet thematically unified of my works of fiction.&quot;  The &quot;thematic unity&quot; that weaves together all the book's multifaceted stories is indeed masterful, easily surpassing Card's &quot;The Folk of the Fringe,&quot; a masterpiece in its own right.  &quot;The Worthing Saga&quot; is a compelling read, one that will grip your imagination and intellect long after you have finished it.  I reread it every few years, and enjoy it just as much with each reacquaintance.	2001-12-16
US	50845728	R2YWVEM5YKG7AI	0886878721	209015909	The World Almanac and Book of Facts 2002	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	The standard in almanacs	There are many imitators on the market, some of them quite good, but this almanac has set the standard for more than a century.  The New York World newspaper began publishing an almanac in 1868, &quot;a 120-page volume with 12 pages of advertising.&quot;  The newspaper suspended the almanac's publication in 1876, but publisher Joseph Pulitzer revived it in 1886 as a &quot;compendium of universal knowledge.&quot;  The almanac has been published annually since, outliving the newspaper whose name it still bears.  (The World Almanac is not the oldest almanac in publication, however: that distinction belongs to The Old Farmer's Almanac, which is &quot;North America's oldest continuously published periodical,&quot; founded in 1792.)<br />The World Almanac contains much useful information that belongs in any serious basic-reference set.  For the world, the almanac presents basic statistics about each nation, and about the world's major religions; and summarizes the world's history, with more detailed histories of the United States and of the preceding year.  For the United States, the almanac reprints the nation's organic documents, the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution; lists every community with a population over 5000, with its ZIP code and area code; lists every county (or parish or division) and county seat; contains a directory of the entire Federal government, including Congress and all congressional committees, every executive department, and every court and judge; presents basic statistics about each state and major city, and a short biography of each president; and much more.  The almanac also contains bountiful information about education, science, sports, and many other topics.  No other single volume offers such a wealth of information on such a variety of subjects.	2001-12-11
US	50845728	R8RW7QRG8YGJN	0713646470	992006299	Titles and Forms of Address: A Guide to Their Correct Use (Reference)	Books	2	2	3	N	Y	For Brits only	I am a lawyer in Minneapolis, Minnesota, and bought this book as a reference source for addressing the holders of the various academic, religious, political, professional, and other titles that I deal with in my practice. Unfortunately, although you cannot tell from the book's listing or even from its front cover, the book concerns British titles only. It will tell you quite precisely how one ought to address the wife of an Irish chieftain or the grandchild of a marquess (I kid you not), but does not suggest how one addresses a professor at a community college, a Muslim cleric, or the President of the United States. With regard to religious titles in religions other than Christianity and Judaism, the book simply observes, &quot;Muslims, Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists and adherents of other religions have a variety of religious and cultural organisations which have different hierarchies. It is recommended that an approach be made to places of worship or to cultural centres to ascertain the modes deemed most appropriate for individual priests, ministers and officials.&quot; For the President, it does note that &quot;the US president . . . should be addressed as Mr President and on envelopes as the President of the United States of America&quot;--a lot less information than the reader gets on the preceding page for addressing an assistant chief constable of a non-metropolitan police force.<br />This book is also utterly impersonal. The publisher's address appears on the copyright page, but otherwise there is not a single human or institutional author whose name appears as responsible for its content. The book nowhere suggests where a curious reader may turn for more information. And, while the cover proudly identifies this version as the &quot;Twentieth edition,&quot; and the copyright page lists editions going back to 1918, the text is utterly devoid of accumulated anecdotes, tradition, or humor.<br />No doubt this book is competent in its own milieu. For American culture, however, I recommend sticking with Emily Post.however, I recommend sticking with Emily Post.	2001-12-07
US	50845728	R2O7CPXSCZUPC0	0877799113	288011927	The Merriam Webster Dictionary	Books	5	51	51	N	N	Ready reference: a standard for common, nonliterary usage	The best pocket-sized, paperback dictionary of American English.  With 70,000 words, this dictionary abridges the 215,000-word &quot;Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary&quot; (which, in turn, abridges the 445,000-word &quot;Webster's Third New International Dictionary Unabridged&quot;).  The name &quot;Webster's&quot; long ago passed into the public domain, but these three dictionaries--and the Merriam-Webster brand--are the lineal descendants of Noah Webster's original nineteenth-century dictionaries, the first dictionaries of American English, which have been in print continuously for almost two centuries.<br />I keep this paperback handy on my desk for ready reference (along with a thesaurus, a style manual, and a usage dictionary).  On the  shelf nearby, I keep a more extensive basic reference set, including the heftier hardbound &quot;Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary,&quot; of which this paperback version is a subset.  This dictionary is highly abridged, thus not the most appropriate reference if you are looking for a word's detailed etymology, for an obscure word, or for thoroughness.  But when writing for a nonliterary audience, when clear and simple communication is the goal, this book is a good check against writing that is getting too high and mighty.  If a word does not appear here, I think twice about using it, keeping in mind the Fowler brothers' first &quot;general principle&quot; of good writing: &quot;Prefer the familiar word to the far-fetched.&quot;<br />If you are buying one and only one dictionary, go with the hardbound &quot;Collegiate Dictionary&quot;: it is more complete, yet stays within the realm of familiar words.  But if you can manage, I recommend stocking both that dictionary and this one.  Keep the hardbound version on the shelf, within reach, and consult it as necessary; but keep this one at your fingertips, and consult it routinely.	2001-12-07
US	50845728	R2W9THPWE0483W	1853263044	118354399	The King's English (Wordsworth Collection)	Books	5	63	63	N	N	Prequel to Fowler's &quot;Dictionary of Modern English Usage&quot;	If you liked &quot;A Dictionary of Modern English Usage,&quot; you will love &quot;The King's English.&quot;<br />For three generations, a single book dominated the market as the authoritative reference in matters of grammar, style, and usage in the English language: &quot;A Dictionary of Modern English Usage&quot; by H.W. Fowler, first published in 1926, now in its third edition (published 1996).  Twenty years earlier, however, Fowler and his younger brother F.G. (their given names were Henry Watson and Francis George) had collaborated on a precursor, &quot;The King's English,&quot; first published in 1906 (and which went into its third edition a quarter century later, a few years after the first edition of &quot;A Dictionary&quot; appeared).<br />This book is every bit as charming and graceful as the later &quot;Dictionary&quot; and, while this earlier work covers fewer topics than &quot;Dictionary,&quot; it treats the ones that it does cover with as much thoroughness and skill as &quot;Dictionary&quot;--in some cases with more thoroughness, since the book is structured as part essay, part textbook, and can thus afford more examples and exercises than &quot;Dictionary.&quot;  The book begins by laying out five &quot;general principles&quot; worthy of Strunk and White (whose masterpiece &quot;The Elements of Style&quot; did not appear until half a century later): &quot;Prefer the familiar word to the far-fetched.  Prefer the concrete word to the abstract.  Prefer the single word to the circumlocution.  Prefer the short word to the long.  Prefer the Saxon word to the Romance.&quot;<br />The Fowlers expand upon those five &quot;principles,&quot; and also treat vocabulary, syntax, punctuation, and other such technical matters in great depth.  But amidst these technical chapters they also include a lengthy chapter on &quot;airs and graces,&quot; in which they advise the reader about imbuing writing with art.<br />The Fowlers write with every bit as much elegance, flair, and humor as they advise their readers to use, and their mastery of their subject is unsurpassed.  &quot;The King's English&quot; has stood the test of time and, today, a century after its initial publication, it still stands the Fowler brothers with Strunk and White from half a century ago and Bryan Garner of today in the first rank of authors about style and usage in the English language., and humor as they advise their readers to use, and their mastery of their subject is unsurpassed.  &quot;The King's English&quot; has stood the test of time and, today, a century after its initial publication, it still stands the Fowler brothers with Strunk and White from half a century ago and Bryan Garner of today in the first rank of authors about style and usage in the English language.	2001-12-07
US	50845728	R3HY3VZBWF7YRK	0839812620	445760584	The last American	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Short and cutesy	I bought this book looking for a story about post-apocalypse America: the full title is &quot;The Last American: A Fragment from the Journal of Khan-Li, Prince of the Dimph-You-Chur and Admiral in the Persian Navy.&quot; It was short and cutesy--filled with puns just as bad as &quot;Dimph-You-Chur&quot; (=&quot;dim future&quot;), not quite what I expected. A Persian expedition a thousand years from now explores the ruins of New York and Washington. The book is interesting at least for its vintage: first published in 1889, it is one of the earliest works in its genre. There is a thinly veiled and shallow commentary on American shortcomings in the gilded age.	2001-08-28
US	50845728	R1DV13CG4W37CY	0881845477	104602823	Hello America	Books	1	6	12	N	N	Embarrassingly implausible	I regret that I cannot recommend &quot;Hello America.&quot; In fact, it got so silly at times that it was embarrassing. J.G. Ballard is a British writer whose perception of America is, to say the least, a little too broad. The book's premise (the whole population of the United States flees to Europe in the 2030s, then the whole continent is turned to desert when the Bering Strait is dammed) and characters (nutcases all) were totally implausible. The attempted humor falls flat because the author is taking his premise so seriously, but the premise falls flat because the characters and their adventures are so ridiculous.	2001-08-28
US	50845728	R1T9PR39V0CLKC	0415923204	975738337	Real Life at the White House: 200 Years of Daily Life at America's Most Famous Residence	Books	5	23	25	N	Y	Charming and educational: nonfiction that you can't put down	Father-daughter team John and Claire Whitcomb have woven a tapestry of American history from the perspective of the White House and the nation's first families.  Their command of detail is impressive: not only the familiar trivia about decorations and furniture that you can find in other White House histories, but how each first family related to the staff, how each president financed the home's operation (paying until modern times out of his own pocket for the staff, public entertainment, and refurbishing), and how the White House has both changed and changed with the nation's concept of the connection between the people, their leaders, and their house.<br />I have been reading about American history and presidential trivia for three decades and, instead of running into the same familiar overused anecdotes on which so many books draw, this book contained educational and entertaining surprises on every page.  The book portrays our presidents as human beings, and tells a story not only about their habits and routines, but about their emotions and their lives in and out of the public eye.  The image that struck me the most was President Pierce--mourning his son's recent death--spending his first night as president nearly alone in the White House, sleeping &quot;on a mattress on the floor, wrapped in his coat to keep warm,&quot; because his belongings were still packed, his grieving wife had not yet arrived in Washington, the Fillmores had not quite moved out, and the furniture was in disarray from the inaugural celebration.  The book is full of such human anecdotes.  I could hardly put it down.	2001-07-15
US	50845728	R3B8V2YQE3BKZX	0393319822	663391318	The Impeachment and Trial of Andrew Johnson (Norton Essays in American History)	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	An apologia for the impeachers	Professor Les Benedict lays out the case for President Johnson's impeachment in this 1972 monograph.  The narrative is highly sympathetic to the radical-Republican impeachers, and unsympathetic to Johnson: Les Benedict embraces an emerging theme among historians who &quot;now speak in terms of well-meaning efforts of conscientious Republicans to establish national security on the basis of equality before the law&quot; in the highly volatile post-Civil War era, and he complains that &quot;[o]nly one event has resisted this historical reversal--the impeachment and trial of President Andrew Johnson.&quot;  The book paints the congressional Republicans as conscientious and rational politicians interested in restoring the Southern economic base (and securing their own political ascendancy) after the War, and Johnson as a power-hungry executive who thwarts the congressional policy using his military authority and other constitutional powers--all to the point where the restrained and long-suffering congressional majority is left with no choice but impeachment (the chapter leading up to the impeachment is titled &quot;Johnson Forces the Issue&quot;).  The book paints the politics with a very broad brush, and unfortunately gives short shrift to Johnson's motives, even though Johnson himself is portrayed as a capable and determined politician and not as the out-of-touch bumbler that some histories have made him out to be.  But the book tells an engaging story from the congressional viewpoint, and offers a detailed and balanced view of the legal issues on which the trial ultimately hinged.	2001-05-30
US	50845728	RTFTNMMVL6CVN	0837102294	426944329	Presidential Succession (University of Michigan Publications. History and Political Science)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The seminal work in its field	I wrote my undergraduate thesis on presidential disability and succession.  This book was an invaluable resource, rich in detail, context, and analysis.  Published in 1951, four years after the Presidential Succession Act of 1947 (which is still the law today), the book is a definitive source for how law and custom evolved throughout the nineteenth and first half of the twentieth centuries.  As Professor Silva's introduction explains, her &quot;approach is partly legal, partly historical, and partly analytical,&quot; and it is highly satisfying on all counts.  The book covers nearly every nuance of applicable law and history, from well-known matters like the &quot;Tyler precedent&quot; (establishing the principle that, when a president dies in office, the vice-president becomes the president, not merely the acting president) to less-known anecdotes such as how President Arthur provided for his own incapacity when he succeeded the assassinated President Garfield and there was no vice-president, the Senate had not yet elected a president pro tem, and the House had not yet elected a speaker.  When Congress was considering in the mid-1960s what ultimately became the Constitution's twenty-fifth amendment, almost every player in the debates relied on Professor Silva's work as a primary authority.  No book since--not even John Feerick's excellent &quot;From Failing Hands&quot; and &quot;The 25th Amendment&quot;--has so thoroughly covered this critical but neglected subject.	2001-04-29
US	50845728	R3H2RA38OHVAY1	0380800918	444756650	Almost America: From the Colonists to Clinton: a "What If" History of the U.S.	Books	5	17	17	N	Y	Refreshingly academic alternate history	This book is in a slightly different class than most recent alternate history (or &quot;counterfactual history,&quot; as the author calls it).  The book is an anthology, but all the stories were written by the same author, Steve Tally.  From his writing, I would have guessed that Mr. Tally is a history professor, and a pretty lively one, but he is in fact a professional writer whose credits include as much hard science as history.  Nevertheless, his grasp of American history is impressive, and enhances his book's quality.<br />The book takes twenty-eight &quot;what if&quot; scenarios and plays them out:  What if the early United States had kept the Articles of Confederation?  What if President T. Roosevelt had carried out his threat of outlawing the fledgling sport of American football?  What if Nixon had fought his impeachment until the bitter end?  What if IBM had written its early personal-computer code in-house instead of hiring Microsoft?  The answers are fascinating, but plausible.  As the author's introductory note explains, &quot;I tried to make the counterfactual scenarios plausible.  Adolf Hitler doesn't step into a time machine to join Robert E. Lee at Gettysburg . . . . [T]he counterfactuals are based on the decisions of human beings, not on acts of God. . . .  Focusing on decisions allows us to second-guess those decisions, and second-guessing is always good sport.&quot;  Looking past the implicit dig at &quot;The Guns of the South&quot; by Harry Turtledove (a very good book, in my opinion), Mr. Tally lives up to his promise of plausibility: each chapter opens with an actual history lesson that sets the stage for the alternate-history story, then closes with a discussion of the sources and historical analogies that were used in constructing the story.  For example, the chapter about the early United States keeping the Articles of Confederation, &quot;America Scraps Its Constitution,&quot; plays out an interesting storyline whose facts are partly drawn (as the chapter later explains) from the Confederate States' experiment with a decentralized national government in the 1860s.<br />It may be a drawback for some readers that the stories tend to be a little dry and academic, as if the book was a real history textbook rather than a novel.  For me, however, the academic tone gives the book a certain charm that only enhances its interest.  The stories actually engaged me as I tried drawing on my own knowledge of history to figure out where they were heading.  For those readers who are seriously interested in second-guessing Mr. Tally's second guesses, he recently (Feb. 2001) set up a website for such a discussion, which he mentions in his introductory note.<br />This book got me thinking, it educated me, and it was fun.as the chapter later explains) from the Confederate States' experiment with a decentralized national government in the 1860s.<br />It may be a drawback for some readers that the stories tend to be a little dry and academic, as if the book was a real history textbook rather than a novel.  For me, however, the academic tone gives the book a certain charm that only enhances its interest.  The stories actually engaged me as I tried drawing on my own knowledge of history to figure out where they were heading.  For those readers who are seriously interested in second-guessing Mr. Tally's second guesses, he recently (Feb. 2001) set up a website for such a discussion, which he mentions in his introductory note.<br />This book got me thinking, it educated me, and it was fun.	2001-04-22
US	50845728	R1DG92MXW2OL6Y	0809101742	667920064	Hope for the Flowers	Books	5	14	17	N	Y	Balance and priorities	I have enjoyed this book ever since I discovered it more than a dozen years ago, and hardly a year goes by when I do not read it again.  On one level, it is a love story--about two caterpillars, Stripe and Yellow--and for a long time I viewed my life through its lens as a quest for my Yellow.  On a deeper level, however, the book is (as its cover says) &quot;a tale--partly about life partly about revolution and lots about hope.&quot;  Lately I have grown more attuned to that deeper message about balance and priorities, a message that resonates with or without Yellow--a message that, if I would just listen to it, may help me find my Yellow, but will surely bless and keep me as I wait.	2001-02-11
US	50845728	R2HSUHG6U4KJKG	0786863811	976330952	Traditions: Complete Book of Prayers, Rituals, and Blessings for Every Jewish Home	Books	2	7	9	N	Y	Folksy but lightweight	This book disappointed me.  As a non-Jew, I bought it looking for the text of the Kol Nidre, the prayer chanted during Yom Kippur in avoidance of unwisely made vows, which the book itself acknowledges as &quot;one of the best-known prayers in the liturgy.&quot;  From the book's subtitle, &quot;The Complete Book of Prayers . . . ,&quot; I expected that it would be a ready source for this &quot;best-known prayer.&quot;  Not only does the book totally omit the prayer's text (other than to mention that &quot;Kol Nidre&quot;--the prayer's first two words, although the book does not tell you so--means &quot;all vows&quot;), it barely mentions the prayer.  I gather from the other half-dozen books that I bought in order to learn about the prayer that this book's thumbnail description, while technically accurate, omits material information about the prayer's significance, in whose absence the technically accurate information is somewhat misleading; and repeats a popular misconception about the prayer's origin that is widely discredited.  What the book does contain is two pages of Yom Kippur recipes and a three-page Yom Kippur story.<br />On the positive side, this book does offer a richly textured trip through the Jewish year, and paints a vivid portrait of each event in that cycle that blends contemporary custom with ancient tradition.  The information about some prayers and holidays is better than the information that I found about Kol Nidre and Yom Kippur.  If you are unfamiliar with Jewish culture, this book is a good introduction and overview to the outward signs of that culture, but it does not go too deeply into the inward meaning of the traditions that it describes.	2000-10-23
US	50845728	R34UZTLQ9CNINS	1563520648	963486005	1,001 Facts Somebody Screwed Up	Books	1	79	81	N	Y	A little knowledge is a dangerous thing	This book proves the adage that a little knowledge can be a dangerous thing.  Many allegedly &quot;screwed-up facts&quot; are simply cute, too-clever-by half twists that the author has cooked up on familiar subjects, and many of these twists are just as screwed up as the facts that the author is allegedly debunking.  For example, on page 2, the book asserts that &quot;there are only forty-six states in the United States.  Virginia, Pennsylvania, Kentucky, and Massachusetts are commonwealths.&quot;  Well, okay, those four states do call themselves commonwealths, but doing so obviously does not deprive them of statehood.  (A &quot;commonwealth&quot; was simply a term popular in the eighteenth century, particularly around the time of American independence, for describing a political community whose form of government was based on the consent of the governed.)  The book contains dozens, if not hundreds, of instances of equally threadbare research and thinking.  The author offers no credentials, other than thanking a list of &quot;Mensans&quot; in his acknowledgments; and the book nowhere contains any citation, documentation, or other authority for its &quot;facts,&quot; other than a barely page-long introduction in which the author writes that he relied on &quot;encyclopedias, standard references, and specialists.&quot;  The book's &quot;facts&quot; may supply fodder for some meagerly amusing cocktail-party conversation, but just don't start that conversation in a contentious crowd, because nobody will take your argument seriously if this book is all that is backing you up.	2000-10-23
US	50845728	RO3FHFD71WCSA	039443532X	27509538	Markings	Books	5	20	21	N	Y	Active vs. contemplative life	Hammarskjold was a Swedish diplomat who served as secretary-general of the United Nations at the height of the Cold War (and whose death in a plane crash in Africa in 1961 may not have been an accident). Throughout his life he struggled with balancing the tension between the active life and the contemplative life that always faces the political intellectual. This book is his private journal, in which he struggles with a deeply personal and private faith in the context of a vocation that called him to one of the most visible and influential offices in international politics. That struggle, which emerges in bits and pieces in entries that span nearly four decades, both celebrates life and indulges deep feelings of doubt and isolation.<br />\\"Markings\\" is far more a work of philosophy than autobiography. Hammarskjold's frend W.H. Auden contributes a moving foreword that supplies a context for Hammarskjold's writing. But as the foreword notes, Hammarskjold does not \\"make a single direct reference to his career as an international civil servant, to the persons he met, or the historical events of his time in which he played an important role.\\"	2000-08-11
US	50845728	R1PIWRIRB1RGV2	0517701839	346985722	Desiderata: A Poem for a Way of Life	Books	5	32	33	N	Y	Perspective on life's big picture	One of my favorite poems, a comforting and refreshing perspective on  life's big picture.  It purports to have been discovered in a church in the  seventeenth century, but in fact it was written by a man named Max Ehrmann  in the first third of this century.  I have kept a copy around since  elementary school (ever since I learned that Gene Roddenberry, the creator  of Star Trek, kept one in his office), and now keep one in my office at  home and one at work.	2000-08-11
US	50845728	R3LF1YAIJV5E65	0670881465	184172254	The 48 Laws of Power	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Instructive, but too machiavellian	I have occasionally given this book as a gift, but always with some  reluctance.  I have given it to colleagues in the hope that it will help  illuminate the byzantine politics of certain large organizations, some of  whose leaders have evidently taken some of the book's precepts to heart  (which is the only satisfying explanation that I can find for why anyone  follows certain leaders).  I am somewhat reluctant, however, because while  this book contains some instructive advice, it is far too machiavellian for  my taste and spends far too much energy extolling the pursuit of power for  power's own sake rather than for the sake of the good that power can  accomplish.  Nevertheless, forewarned is forearmed, and I have enjoyed  recognizing in its cautionary tales some familiar and otherwise  inexplicable patterns that I have observed in my own experience.	2000-08-11
US	50845728	R1KV3SZJDS1Q6J	0609802224	567759180	Stealing Jesus: How Fundamentalism Betrays Christianity	Books	4	13	14	N	Y	The historical case against the religious right	This book raised many interesting spiritual issues for me.  While it  contains some ideas and arguments that I do not accept, it affords a  context within which I can examine my own spiritual journey, and it has  helped me articulate the discomfort that I felt with the churches that my  family attended while I was in high school.  It distinguishes between  &quot;law&quot; and &quot;love&quot; as the bases for different strands in  contemporary Christian movements.  (Guess which one it prefers.)  The tone  is a little strident (especially in the chapters that amount to personal  attacks on certain leaders of the religious right), and I have run into one  or two passages that make assertions with which I am predisposed to agree  but which I cannot accept uncritically and which the text does not  document, but it is well written and makes several interesting points.  The  most informative part was perhaps the history that traces contemporary  fundamentalism to social movements in the late nineteenth and early  twentieth centuries.	2000-08-11
US	50845728	R2SARR9M4IGHVR	0609802224	567759180	Stealing Jesus: How Fundamentalism Betrays Christianity	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	The historical case against the religious right	This book distinguishes between &quot;law&quot; and &quot;love&quot; as  the bases for different strands in contemporary Christian movements.   (Guess which one it prefers.)  The tone is a little strident (especially in  the chapters that amount to personal attacks on certain leaders of the  religious right), and I have run into one or two passages that make  assertions with which I am predisposed to agree but which I cannot accept  uncritically and which the text does not document, but it is well written  and makes several interesting points.  The most informative part was  perhaps the history that traces contemporary fundamentalism to social  movements in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries.	2000-08-11
US	50845728	R1BAT5J20IX69N	1579120148	2759931	Profiles in Courage	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	Political parables	This book reminds me that it is better to lose on the right side than to  win on the wrong one.	2000-08-11
US	50845728	RGRXKY5DP4PUF	0030707315	163485872	Warday and the Journey Onward	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Politics and human interest	Two journalists, childhood friends both in real life and in the book,  journey across an America that has been partly but not totally devastated  by a limited nuclear attack.  Some regions are uninhabitable, most have  reverted to a plague-ridden substistence economy, and a few--like  California--are thriving.  But the concept of American nationhood has  broken down: California and other &quot;haves&quot; have erected police  states with strict barriers that keep the &quot;have-nots&quot; off their  territory.  The Mexican-Americans and native Americans in the southwestern  states have formed their own nation that rejects the vestiges of the United  States, while the white governor of Texas will not recognize the secession  and is prepared to resist it, by force if necessary.  The Federal  government still exists: it has moved to Los Angeles, and operates out of  the bottom floors of a building that it shares with a Californian  human-services agency, so whether you can rely on the Bill of Rights  depends on which floor you are on.  But the political stories are not the  book's real strength, which is the human interest with which the authors  portray the everyday lives of everyday citizens in a changed world.	2000-08-05
US	50845728	R8F9UUHLE9LIL	0785941797	354926009	Malevil (French Version)	Books	5	10	14	N	N	A post-apocalypse subsistence economy	This book was surprisingly good.  The title put me off, since I inferred  that it attributed the collapse of civilization to some silly supernatural  struggle, like &quot;Swan Song&quot; by Robert McCammon, which I bought and  barely began reading before I dropped it in disappointment.  (Not that all  supernaturally inspired apocalypses are bad stories: I really liked  &quot;The Stand&quot; by Stephen King.)  In fact, Malevil is simply the  name of the little French community where the story occurs.  It is a pretty  good story about a subsistence economy arising after a nuclear holocaust.  Unfortunately, you never find out what is happening in the world outside  that little community, but it is pretty good nevertheless: there is no  backstory about the disintegration or reconstitution of the national  government, which is the part that I usually enjoy the most in  post-apocalyptic fiction, but there is an amusing thread about the basis  for the local ecclesiastical jurisdiction where the protagonist relies on  some medieval warrants in order to trump the religious charlatan who has  established himself as the ruler in the next town over.	2000-08-05
