US	50854525	RBNVBVKFT2L7Y	076534629X	554998165	The Codex	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A DELIGHTFUL TALE, SKILLFULLY TOLD	The Codex is one of the most entertaining books I've ever read. On one level it's an implausible plot with characters who all seem to be stereotypes in which the good guys triumph over the bad guys. But in the hands of a master storyteller, the characters feel like people you know, the plot carries you along from one crazy twist to another, and you anxiously await the next page. You find yourself laughing out loud at some of the dialog and antics of this collection of unforgettable characters. The sons of Maxwell Broadbent are all different: the pompous wannabe, the gullible seeker, and the cowboy dreamer. Then there's Broadbent himself, a collector -- no hoarder -- of art and ancient artifacts, the quintessential wealthy eccentric.<br /><br />As their search for their lost legacy takes them into the wild jungle, Broadbent's sons meet even more weird characters, including an Indian guide who makes sexist jokes! You also have a greedy pharmaceutical corporate mogul and a cigar-chomping sleazy detective, along with a beautiful woman with the improbable name of Sally Colorado who can ride horses bareback and make medicines out of jungle plants.<br /><br />Put all these people into one skillfully-written novel and you have a reader's delight. As with all great stories, the characters go through harrowing, life-changing experiences and gain self-insights as a result. Despite the light touch of this tale, the reader too can ponder what lessons were learned from the jungle journey of these characters. I enjoyed this book thoroughly and was only sorry when I came to the end - an end with some surprises I did not see coming. The author has done a magnificent job with this story, and I give it a rare (for me) five stars.	2005-10-09
US	50854525	R2UWFFHIN1Z395	1881025098	181937760	The Cancer Industry	Books	4	136	142	N	N	BEWARE THE MEDICAL-INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX	The \\"war on cancer\\" is being lost and this book gives the primary reasons why. The current treatments - mainly chemotherapy and radiation - are largely ineffective and so toxic people often die from their treatment rather than their disease. There's been nothing new from the research community in decades, and the number of cancer victims keeps rising. Ralph W. Moss worked at one of the most prestigious cancer research and treatment facilities in the US - Memorial Sloan-Kettering in New York. He quit when that institution deliberately misled the press and public about test results for a promising treatment. That treatment was the much-maligned laetrile (vitamin B-17) that was finally banned by the FDA and its proponents forced underground.  Interestingly, Moss reports that Sloan-Kettering's most respected researcher, Kanematsu Sugiura, stood by the efficacy of laetrile until his death.<br /><br />In The Cancer Industry, Moss shows how institutions like Sloan-Kettering pick and choose what to test and how to test it, and operate with a bias toward those methods that are the favorites of their financial backers, even to the point of disregarding their own researchers, as they did with Dr. Sugiura. The medical staff at Sloan-Kettering had a bias toward chemotherapy, since their Board of Directors included corporate bigwigs whose business interests benefited from chemo profits, which are enormous.<br /><br />Another promising treatment, hydrazine sulfate, suffered the same fate as laetrile, even though its backers had considerable success with it. Unlike chemo, which generally makes the patient sicker, hydrazine sulfate works by building the patient's strength. It was the result of a logical deduction, arising from the fact that cancer patients often die of \\"cachexia,\\" a term that literally means \\"wasting away.\\" Hydrazine sulfate is an anti-cachexia agent. It works with the patient's own resistance to restore health.<br /><br />What really doomed these two approaches to cancer treatment is that both are natural substances and their use in cancer treatment is part of a nutritional approach. Drug companies cannot patent anything natural or profit from nutritional therapy as they can from chemical substances which they alone control through patents. Laetrile is a naturally-occurring substance found in many foods, including apricots. Hydrazine sulfate is a very cheap substance that is readily available.<br /><br />Moss also examines in detail the treatment of William Coley (Coley's Toxin) Dr. Lawrence Burton, Dr. Stanislaw Burzynski, Linus Pauling and vitamin C, and Virginia Livingston with her germ theory. All of these people achieved some success, but their methods were rejected by the orthodox cancer establishment.<br /><br />Moss does not suggest that there is a formal conspiracy to suppress alternate treatments, but he does suggest that the organizations that control the direction of cancer treatment, whether government agencies, private companies, or research and treatment centers, have interlocking personnel and the agendas that matter are those that keep the funds flowing. He also shows that big egos and personal rivalries play a large part.<br /><br />The cancer establishment has consistently downplayed prevention and ignored evidence that environmental factors or poor nutrition can be a cause or contributing factor in cancer. The big money interests that support the large charities like the American Cancer Society are not likely to approve of programs that suggest their products contribute to cancer. Moss examines the controversy over asbestos as a case study and shows how little interest there was among government or charities to warn the public about known dangers. While the entrenched players in the cancer war do little to inform the public about how to avoid the disease, they go out of their way to scare people about the likelihood that they will develop some form of cancer in their lifetime. Scare tactics bring in donations.<br /><br />The book is well-researched and full of details (names, dates, test results), but I would have liked more information about the efficacy of screening tests, which is another big money-maker for the medical establishment. Is it really worthwhile to have mammograms and colonoscopies? Moss suggests that the \\"find it early\\" philosophy often makes no difference in the ultimate outcome. Given the high price and potential dangers of some of these screening tests, do they really serve the public or only the pocketbooks of those who provide the tests? It seems to me that screening tests are pushed on the public as a substitute for a cure, which these organizations have failed to provide, despite the billions of dollars they have spent since America declared a war on cancer more than 30 years ago.<br /><br />It also seems to me that money is the primary motivator in all things medical in the US. Moss does not say there is a conspiracy and repeats the old mantra that a cure for cancer \\"would be worth a fortune.\\" But wouldn't a cure ruin a perfectly good business, the cancer business? Moss shows just how many vested interests are involved in cancer, and I doubt any of them want to lose their market.<br /><br />I'm betting that if we ever have a cure, or even better treatments, that the innovation needed will not come from the bloated and greedy US health care system, but rather from some country that has government-funded health care... somewhere where the incentives are for bringing down the costs by finding a cure for a deadly and expensive scourge. If you continue to believe the claptrap about America having the best medical research, then consider that it was two Australians who discovered that ulcers are caused, not by stress, but by bacteria and can be quickly and cheaply cured. What American drug company would have had the incentive to make such a discovery? Dr. Barry Marshall, one of the Australians whose persistence resulted in the breakthrough, was quoted as follows:<br /><br />\\"The idea of stress and things like that was just so entrenched nobody could really believe that it was bacteria. It had to come from some weird place like Perth, Western Australia because I think nobody else would have even considered it.\\"<br /><br />Precisely the point of this book.bring in donations. <br /> <br />The book is well-researched and full of details (names, dates, test results), but I would have liked more information about the efficacy of screening tests, which is another big money-maker for the medical establishment. Is it really worthwhile to have mammograms and colonoscopies? Moss suggests that the \\"find it early\\" philosophy often makes no difference in the ultimate outcome. Given the high price and potential dangers of some of these screening tests, do they really serve the public or only the pocketbooks of those who provide the tests? It seems to me that screening tests are pushed on the public as a substitute for a cure, which these organizations have failed to provide, despite the billions of dollars they have spent since America declared a war on cancer more than 30 years ago. <br /> <br />It also seems to me that money is the primary motivator in all things medical in the US. Moss does not say there is a conspiracy and repeats the old mantra that a cure for cancer \\"would be worth a fortune.\\" But wouldn't a cure ruin a perfectly good business, the cancer business? Moss shows just how many vested interests are involved in cancer, and I doubt any of them want to lose their market.  <br /> <br />I'm betting that if we ever have a cure, or even better treatments, that the innovation needed will not come from the bloated and greedy US health care system, but rather from some country that has government-funded health care... somewhere where the incentives are for bringing down the costs by finding a cure for a deadly and expensive scourge. If you continue to believe the claptrap about America having the best medical research, then consider that it was two Australians who discovered that ulcers are caused, not by stress, but by bacteria and can be quickly and cheaply cured. What American drug company would have had the incentive to make such a discovery? Dr. Barry Marshall, one of the Australians whose persistence resulted in the breakthrough, was quoted as follows: <br /> <br />\\"The idea of stress and things like that was just so entrenched nobody could really believe that it was bacteria. It had to come from some weird place like Perth, Western Australia because I think nobody else would have even considered it.\\" <br /> <br />Precisely the point of this book. <br />	2005-10-04
US	50854525	R2G9BPAKVE59QN	0609802232	333501354	The Mars Mystery: The Secret Connection Between Earth and the Red Planet	Books	4	51	55	N	N	WELL-REASONED ACCOUNT OF "THE FLAYED PLANET"	This may be the most speculative of all Hancock's books, but he gives you plenty to think about. I wondered if this book would just be another rehashing of Richard Hoagland's ideas about the artificiality of the \\"monuments\\" of the Cydonia region of Mars, but instead it's pure Graham Hancock. He connects some dots from his previous books, looking again at the significance of the layout of the Giza plateau in Egypt as well as Teotihaucan in Mexico and speculating about whether the ancients have left us a message. It's a dire warning that our planet may be in for a pounding by explosive projectiles from space - the same dangerous objects that may have destroyed the planet Mars.<br /><br />Hancock provides plenty of background on the swarm of comets and asteroids that are on Earth-crossing orbits and how they got there. It seems as our galaxy makes its great circle over millions of years it periodically encounters the galactic arm which is full of debris. Some of this debris remains with our solar system, but on unstable orbits. Comets, it turns out, can begin as huge objects many miles across. They generally break up at some point into smaller more numerous objects and work their way from the far end of our solar system to closer to the sun - and, of course, passing by Earth. And yes, comets CAN hit planets as we learned with the explosive impact of comet Shoemaker-Levy 9 on the planet Jupiter in 1994. One of the impact craters it left is larger than Earth!<br /><br />Hancock explores the photos we have of Mars that show it must have had liquid water in its past. He gives us a complete summary of the structures found at Cydonia, including the famous face. Despite NASA's release of a picture that made the face look like a bunch of random scratches, the speculation of artificiality is very much alive. NASA was deceptive in releasing a \\"raw\\" photo, something they normally do not do. It is obvious they wanted to put an end to the public's fascination with the face. Even cleaned up, the photo shows an irregular structure that only looks a bit like a face. But the whole concept of Cydonia as a place with constructed monuments never rested solely on the face. There is the matter of the geometry of the area, which seems to have encoded a lot of the same numbers as the pyramids of Giza and other ancient Earth monuments.<br /><br />In true Hancock fashion, the author provides us with penty of food for thought. He carefully labels his ideas as speculation, not fact, but he conjectures that the damage to Mars could have been recent, not millions of years ago, and it could have coincided with the great flood stories of Earth and an apparent disaster or series of disasters in the time frame of 9000 to 12,000 years ago. These may have involved a scattering of comets and other space objects that are still a danger to Earth; that previous cycles of these swarms from space wiped out the dinosaurs and caused other mass extinctions on Earth.<br /><br />Hancock goes on to speculate that disasters on earth may not be purely geological events, but may have to do with man's treatment of his fellow man and his respect (or lack of it) for his world. He laments that the nations of Earth are doing almost nothing to search the solar system for the danger that may be awaiting our home. Is it just hubris that makes up think we are the culmination of all previous generations of humankind? Or are we dead wrong, and is human civilization destined to experience cycles of destruction? Will our Mother Earth become a dead place like Mars? As always, Graham Hancock provides entertaining reading whether you buy into it or not.photo shows an irregular structure that only looks a bit like a face. But the whole concept of Cydonia as a place with constructed monuments never rested solely on the face. There is the matter of the geometry of the area, which seems to have encoded a lot of the same numbers as the pyramids of Giza and other ancient Earth monuments.    In true Hancock fashion, the author provides us with penty of food for thought. He carefully labels his ideas as speculation, not fact, but he conjectures that the damage to Mars could have been recent, not millions of years ago, and it could have coincided with the great flood stories of Earth and an apparent disaster or series of disasters in the time frame of 9000 to 12,000 years ago. These may have involved a scattering of comets and other space objects that are still a danger to Earth; that previous cycles of these swarms from space wiped out the dinosaurs and caused other mass extinctions on Earth.    Hancock goes on to speculate that disasters on earth may not be purely geological events, but may have to do with man's treatment of his fellow man and his respect (or lack of it) for his world. He laments that the nations of Earth are doing almost nothing to search the solar system for the danger that may be awaiting our home. Is it just hubris that makes up think we are the culmination of all previous generations of humankind? Or are we dead wrong, and is human civilization destined to experience cycles of destruction? Will our Mother Earth become a dead place like Mars? As always, Graham Hancock provides entertaining reading whether you buy into it or not.	2005-08-28
US	50854525	R3ARIHE9ZKDSYQ	0061054321	565499535	Portent	Books	4	0	1	N	N	STILL TIMELY - A UNIQUE APOCALYPTIC  VISION	This story has all the elements of a good thriller, but adds a supernatural twist, as Mother Earth deals with the damage caused by humans to the land, the seas and the air. The scene shifts from a plane swept up in a hurricane in the skies over the US to government offices in Great Britain where climatologist, James Rivers, who survived that terrifying plane ride, is trying to make sense of what's happening. Freak storms, earthquakes and tsunamis are devastating nearly every part of the planet.<br /><br /> Rivers meets Diane and her adopted twins who live with Diane's in-laws in a farm house in rural England. The twins are psychic - they have visions and can heal injuries. Not all their visions are happy ones as they make a psychic connection with a woman from New Orleans, a big black woman who can also heal, when she chooses to. More often she chooses to hurt rather than heal. She believes she serves Mother Earth, but her way is the way of destruction.<br /><br />The story moves swiftly as Rivers begins to believe that the twins and other children like them have some connection with what's happening. The author takes us around the world to witness various destructive events (India, Japan, the Philipines, and out on the ocean), Always, there is first the small balls of light that rise from the earth. These are the portents of something big, something destructive, about to happen. How does this mysterious and beautiful light point the way to the future? Where does it come from? How do children from all over the earth, who all have the visions, fit in?<br /><br />As you read, you begin to get answers. Rivers must confront the evil woman whose connection to the twins is all too real. A classic horror movie scene takes place at the farm house at the story's climax, complete with flashing lightening, crashing thunder, odd balls of light, flash floods, and ghoulish murder. The story is unique in its theory of the earth's destruction, which has within it a new beginning. Mother Earth is making an adjustment, but so is mankind in the consciousness of a new generation. It's a frightening picture of mankind reaping what it has sown, but the story also hints at a resurrection with a new improved human race.adjustment, but so is mankind in the consciousness of a new generation. It's a frightening picture of mankind reaping what it has sown, but the story also hints at a resurrection with a new improved human race.	2005-08-16
US	50854525	R36I1T68J6DDS4	0446604534	75967530	Day of Confession	Books	2	1	3	N	N	A FLAWED STORY	The evil Cardinal Palestrina hires an international terrorist who kills so many people on the pages of this book that I lost count as I was reading, and for what? So the Vatican can forge ties with China. Huh? Not only is Cardinal Palestrina evil, but he is also nuts. He thinks he is the reincarnation of Alexander the Great. The evil Cardinal intends to kill the good Cardinal as soon as he can locate and kill Father Daniel who has heard the good Cardinal's confession, which, of course, revealed what the good Cardinal knew about the horrific plans of the evil Cardinal... Are you confused yet? And I haven't even mentioned the main character, Harry.<br /><br />Like the evil Cardinal, Harry's actions are a bit difficult to understand. Initially Harry likes lusty, independent women who like to screw strangers, but later he desires the pure and sweet nun Elena who also, inconsistently, swings between selfless nurse and siren in a sheer nightgown. When the story begins, Harry seems to think little and care less about his brother Danny (aka Father Daniel), but somehow he becomes willing to take ridiculous risks to help his brother. The author throws in a lot of background on the brothers that is supposed to explain this, but it never quite does.<br /><br />The most memorable character is the terrorist, Thomas Kind, but I kept wondering what his motivation was for doing the bidding of the evil Cardinal Palestrina. Was he just doing it as a job, for money? He killed so many people, you had to wonder if he was being paid by the body. That brings me to one more flaw. The very fact of so many dead bodies was a giveaway to the police that the bad guys couldn't be one Hollywood lawyer (Harry) and one Vatican priest (Danny). In the story, the top cop arrives at this conclusion, but why did Thomas Kind tip his hand in this way?<br /><br />I can buy into a Cardinal being crazy, but it seems he'd be crazy in a more Catholic manner than thinking he is the reincarnation of Alexander the Great. Didn't author Folsom realize Catholics don't believe in reincarnation? Didn' t the pope (who barely appears in the story) notice that Cardinal Palestrina was, well... evil? The author does throw in a few scenes where the pope senses something is wrong, but, good grief, wouldn't he have noticed it long ago? Wouldn't you expect the Holy Father to be a better judge of character? And why were people on the outside of the Vatican so willing to risk their lives to try to help the good Cardinal when people inside the Vatican were all going along with the requests of the evil Cardinal and didn't seem to mind that the good Cardinal was incarcerated in a tower?<br /><br />I liked the European settings of the story and the book has a wonderful map of Vatican City on the back cover. The author kept the action moving swiftly (almost too swiftly), but I found the characters too unrealistic and the attempts to show motivation and feeling unconvincing. I almost stopped reading several times when the characters became too cardboard, and when the old clich&eacute; about the confession that cannot be revealed, so beloved of Hollywood, turned up. I wondered if finishing the book was even worth the time. I also found the constant scene changes and the huge cast of characters at times confusing. The story had some interesting elements, but I'd have to rate it as a miss.er the Great. Didn't author Folsom realize Catholics don't believe in reincarnation? Didn' t the pope (who barely appears in the story) notice that Cardinal Palestrina was, well... evil? The author does throw in a few scenes where the pope senses something is wrong, but, good grief, wouldn't he have noticed it long ago? Wouldn't you expect the Holy Father to be a better judge of character? And why were people on the outside of the Vatican so willing to risk their lives to try to help the good Cardinal when people inside the Vatican were all going along with the requests of the evil Cardinal and didn't seem to mind that the good Cardinal was incarcerated in a tower?  <br /> <br />I liked the European settings of the story and the book has a wonderful map of Vatican City on the back cover. The author kept the action moving swiftly (almost too swiftly), but I found the characters too unrealistic and the attempts to show motivation and feeling unconvincing. I almost stopped reading several times when the characters became too cardboard, and when the old clich about the confession that cannot be revealed, so beloved of Hollywood, turned up. I wondered if finishing the book was even worth the time. I also found the constant scene changes and the huge cast of characters at times confusing. The story had some interesting elements, but I'd have to rate it as a miss. <br /> <br />	2005-04-23
US	50854525	R1P260RNUCZI0N	1929159188	830240688	The Great New Emerging Civilization	Books	4	1	1	N	N	CAN BUDDHISM SAVE THE WORLD?	James Hilgendorf's book is part memoir and part manifesto for a new world. He found his own peace in a chaotic world through learning to chant as part of a Buddhist group called Nichiren Buddhism. He provides compelling stories of his own meandering journey through life that brought him to the ideals he expresses on these pages. He tells us that instead of waging war, we should rethink whether the nation-state has real meaning, and start helping one another on a global scale.<br /><br />He is highly critical of what's happening in the US, with the paranoia about terrorism, as more Americans retreat into a cocoon of phony patriotism. Isn't our obsession with security just selfishness, people who have too much protecting their right to use up the planet's resources while others live in poverty? The US is a society that runs on rampant materialism and an economic system that values only money, that measures success by how much goods and services each of us buy.<br /><br />The world's religions seemingly have little to offer. He tells us that fundamentalism of any stripe is not real religion and that \\"until we recognize God in people we will continue killing people.\\" The world needs a new religion that brings peace and not war, that recognizes the sacred in each of us. We try to protect our privileged way of life because we identify with our nation and do not feel connected to people of different cultures. If everyone could see God in every human being we could create a better world.<br /><br />But can we do that? Like Hilgendorf, I'm disappointed with the direction America has taken. I am less optimistic that we can build a new world any time soon. Currently, religion divides people, religious organizations serve their own interests, and religious leaders denounce those with different beliefs. Religion is the actual cause of most of the present and past wars. Fundamentalism is a powerful force, whether it's flag-waving, right-wing Christians or Muslim suicide bombers. Truly, we need a new religion, but the author's pitch for Nichiren Buddhism leaves me skeptical that any institutional creed can make a difference.bombers. Truly, we need a new religion, but the author's pitch for Nichiren Buddhism leaves me skeptical that any institutional creed can make a difference. <br />	2005-03-23
US	50854525	R1YCXAC9ZAWR7X	1879181843	220473578	Galactic Alignment: The Transformation of Consciousness According to Mayan, Egyptian, and Vedic Traditions	Books	3	116	130	N	Y	INTRIGUING, BUT HOW CREDIBLE?	John Major Jenkins has done a huge amount of research, reading and thinking about the meaning of the Mayan Long Count end date of 2012. Whether His conclusions make sense to you depends on your belief system and your frame of reference.<br /><br />It is difficult to evaluate a lot of his conjecture about ancient civilizations and what their icons, symbols, and writing might have meant in regard to the 2012 date. To Jenkins, it clearly means the alignment of the Winter Solstice meridian with the plane of the Galactic Center, which is happening now, in our own era. Although the Mayans chose to end their count on December 21, 2012 (by our calendar), the actual alignment happens over a period of time. Many experts think a better date would have been 1998 or 1999. If the alignment is the reason for the end date, and if the alignment happens over some years of time, that seems to indicate the date does not signify an apocalyptic event, as many think. Jenkins speculates that the \\"end time\\" is really a period of rising awareness, a time when our very consciousness can shift to a new level.<br /><br />As I read of the many \\"sacred alignments\\" on earth, important ancient cities and markers that line up in geometric fashion, I was reminded of another book I recently finished, Henry Lincoln's book, The Holy Place, about the area around Rennes-le-Chateau France. Lincoln identified many geometric alignments that he felt were beyond chance. But Jenkins raises the intriguing idea that these alignments on earth -- which mirror the occult dictum of \\"as above, so below\\" -- may not have been deliberate, but may be an unconscious response to some type of energy from space, or some dimension beyond our senses.<br /><br />Is the Galactic Center the source of wisdom, of spirituality? Has our evolution seen sudden jumps because of this energy, and are we getting more of it now that our solar system is lined up with the Galactic center? These seem strange questions to those of us living in modern urban areas where we cannot even see the Milky Way at night. It is always a rare and beautiful night for me whenever I can see stars because, living in the Detroit area, we have way too much light pollution and poor quality of air to see the kind of panorama of lights the ancients must have seen. Jenkins makes the point that the Milky Way, our galaxy, is very visible from the high areas of South America.<br /><br /> I thought large parts of the book were tedious, as the text went over numerous examples, quoted the author's favorite writers, and expounded on astronomical lore that was too obscure to evaluate. If you have no acquaintance with the Precession of the Equinoxes, then a lot of the material here will be hard to follow. I recommend Graham Hancock's book, Fingerprint of the Gods, as a good introduction to the concepts of Precession and how the numbers are encoded in ancient legends, writings, and monuments.<br /><br />The most interesting part of Galactic Alignment was near the end where we get the author's ideas. But here he diminishes what are fascinating speculations by too much sermonizing. If you don't believe in an unseen spiritual world or believe you have a spiritual body that continues to exist when your body dies, then the author's remarks will sound like so much hocum. Since I happen to share the author's beliefs, I did find his comments worthwhile. But I have to wonder: If this is a period when we have the opportunity to open ourselves to higher levels of enlightenment, are we doing that? There certainly has been a lot of interest in spiritual topics and re-examination of ancient beliefs. People are studying the Kabbala, embracing New Age ideas, meditating, learning about charkas and natural healing... but we also just re-elected George W. Bush. The conservatives and fundamentalists are also strong and religious differences around the world are bringing us wars and division. You could certainly build a case that none of this shows a human race becoming more spiritual or more enlightened.s a human race becoming more spiritual or more enlightened. <br />	2005-01-22
US	50854525	R3K41U93OC0OEY	042518269X	240191351	Final Diagnosis	Books	1	6	10	N	N	UNREAL CHARACTERS, UNREAL PLOT	This is a story written by a male doctor that has a female reporter (for the AMA News) as the main character, and she is totally unbelievable except as a male fantasy. I admit as I got near the end of this book I couldn't continue, so I looked ahead to see who the bad guys (or gals) were, finally convinced that the book had no message, just a ridiculous plot.<br /><br />I like a good medical thriller, but since I'm a writer/reporter myself, I know that no reporter has the absurd amount of time and money that Erin (the reporter in this story) spent looking into the affairs of the Fetal Institute. She stays at a fancy hotel for weeks on end, rents an expensive car, and never writes a word! I can tell you that if I were doing the story, I'd stay at the Day's Inn and spend two days at most onsite, doing much of the research and interviews long distance, using phone, email and internet.<br /><br />Erin seemed to have a never-ending supply of clothing on this trip, including such inappropriate items like a beaded bustier, leather pants and a tube top. While Dr. Galagher may have found her fascinating, I thought she was a poor reporter (her so-called tough questions were nothing more than obvious things to ask) and her suspicions were actually based on very little ...although we, the readers, knew something was wrong because the author gave us glimpses of what the bad guys were up to. But why Erin's editor didn't insist she finish the story and stop the outflow of money is beyond me. Instead he spends more money by sending a detective to protect poor little Erin. Of course, Erin is also looking out for her friend Claire who is a patient at the Institute, but Claire is just as unbelievable as a character as Erin. While Erin parades around in her tube top, Claire spends weeks at this \\"boutique hospital\\" having all kinds of expensive tests with nary a word about cost, even though we learn her husband may be losing his job soon. She must have the most fabulous health insurance imaginable.<br /><br />And Erin works for the AMA News? The AMA has shown itself to be little more than an organization working to protect doctors' big incomes, specializing in cozying up to the other players in the big bucks business of medical care. If there is such a thing as the AMA News, I'm sure they publish nothing but puff pieces that please their sponsors  (the very people doing all the evil stuff in this story!). I was hoping there was a message somewhere about health care and what's wrong with it, but instead Final Diagnosis is just a silly story that doesn't hang together very well. The author apparently created a woman with the qualities he would find fascinating, but I could not find her believable as either a nurse or a reporter.  And the doctor in the story, who is so taken with this airhead in a tube top, was too lame to make the move, so Erin has to seduce him, apparently part of the author's fantasy (he writes that there's a saying that \\"If he's good in the operating room, he's also good in the bedroom\\" -- I guess Erin must have heard that old saying).<br /><br />All in all, Final Diagnosis was a big disappointment and waste of time. To the author, I say this: You're no Michael Crichton, so don't quit your day job.ance imaginable.   <br /> <br />And Erin works for the AMA News? The AMA has shown itself to be little more than an organization working to protect doctors' big incomes, specializing in cozying up to the other players in the big bucks business of medical care. If there is such a thing as the AMA News, I'm sure they publish nothing but puff pieces that please their sponsors  (the very people doing all the evil stuff in this story!). I was hoping there was a message somewhere about health care and what's wrong with it, but instead Final Diagnosis is just a silly story that doesn't hang together very well. The author apparently created a woman with the qualities he would find fascinating, but I could not find her believable as either a nurse or a reporter.  And the doctor in the story, who is so taken with this airhead in a tube top, was too lame to make the move, so Erin has to seduce him, apparently part of the author's fantasy (he writes that there's a saying that \\"If he's good in the operating room, he's also good in the bedroom\\" -- I guess Erin must have heard that old saying). <br /> <br />All in all, Final Diagnosis was a big disappointment and waste of time. To the author, I say this: You're no Michael Crichton, so don't quit your day job. <br />	2004-12-17
US	50854525	R2G885MUFNRR1L	0446523364	11618814	Riptide	Books	4	2	2	N	N	NON-STOP EXCITEMENT	I'm a fan of Preston/Child books, so when I saw this was based on the infamous \\"Money Pit\\" on Oak Island off Nova Scotia, I had to read it. In the case of the Money Pit, the mystery has to do with who built the pit (which, as in Riptide, has claimed many lives of would-be treasure hunters) and how it was built, as well as what exactly is hidden in the pit.<br />In Riptide, the whole mystery is around how the pit was built and why no one has been able to penetrate down to the treasure. We already know WHO build it (the pirate Ockham) and we know he had amassed incredible treasure from his raids. So the whole problem is why the pit defeats everyone. The island's owner, Malin Hatch, gets a visit from a man who has discovered an old book that holds clues in the form of cyphers written in invisible ink. Crack the mysterious code and you'll learn the secret of the pit. This new source is the key to who was its ingenious architect and why for 300 years no one has been able to get the treasure.<br />Okay, that makes having another attempt make some sense, but I could not understand why the Captain (and his salvage company, Thalassa) would begin the attempt before totally cracking the code. Wouldn't you want to learn everything BEFORE starting on a search that had claimed so many lives from previous seekers? Even if you had millions of dollars to throw at the project?<br />I liked the characters in this story and, as in the authors' other books, characters come to learn about themselves as the tale unfolds. Events of the past come into focus as Malin Hatch returns to his quaint seaside hometown to find the answers that mean more to him than the treasure. But the lure of gold and untold wealth casts its spell and each character reacts in his own way, some being seduced. The character of the minister Clay adds a dimension to the story, as does the interplay between Hatch and the sexy archeologist Isobel Bonterre.<br />Lots of people end up dead as diasaster after bone-chilling disaster befall the treasure hunters, and the truth is finally revealed in the last pages of this exciting story.disaster befall the treasure hunters, and the truth is finally revealed in the last pages of this exciting story.	2004-07-16
US	50854525	R2Z0PG0Q42GCPB	006017224X	889646352	Turin Shroud: In Whose Image? the Truth Behind the Centuries-Long Conspiracy of Silence	Books	3	4	6	N	N	CREDIBLE BUT INCOMPLETE	Picknett and Prince build a convincing case that the Turin shroud was faked by Leonardo Da Vinci, possibly at the request of the pope at the time. Relics were big crowd-pleasers, and this shroud could have replaced an earlier one that did not have an image of the crucified Jesus. But Leonardo also had his own motive for the way he carried out this commission. Leonardo, as we are learning from many popular books, hated the Church. He was a Grand Master of the Pirory of Sion, that shadowy organization that featured so prominently in the book, Holy Blood, Holy Grail.<br />According to Picknett and Prince, it is Leonardo's face that is imprinted on the cloth of the shroud and, further, the head (which is too small for the body) was added separately. The authors compared the features to known likenesses of Leonardo and came up with a match. It was Leonardo's little joke on believers. Who but a genius of his caliber could have created the shroud with its amazing image?<br />The major contribution of this book to shroud lore is their experiments showing that Leonardo could have used a photographic method using a \\"camera obscura\\" (a box with a pinhole used by artists to make an upside-down image they could trace) to make the image. Although photography wasn't invented for a few more centuries, the principles of light-sensitive materials WERE known, and Leonardo was fascinated with light. He was way ahead of his time in his knowledge of the natural world, and he could have used the technique the authors demonstrated. The authors show that Leonardo understood the workings of the camera obscura. They succeeded in making an image of a sculpture of a head that is of similar quality to the image on the shroud using a homemade camera obscura and common chemicals that were available to Leonardo. So far so good.<br />But I kept waiting for the rest of the explanation. Where did Leonardo get a crucified body? The authors relegate this important question to a parenthetical comment that we may never know. Excuse me? The \\"true believers\\" know exactly where the crucified body came from, since they believe it was Jesus and according to the New Testament, Jesus was crucified. It is enough of a stretch to say Leonardo used his own head, since the process suggested would rely on the sun for exposure and it would take a very long exposure to make an image. Of course, Leonardo may have made a cast of his own face and worked with the cast (just as the authors did). But it's hard to see how he could have made a life-size cast of a body that has the marks of crucifixion on it that would result in an image of such good quality. And manipulating a cloth as large as the shroud to get the exposure in the right place and of good quality sounds like a task even Leonardo might be unable to accomplish. It would require a huge camera obscura!<br />They also don't deal with the other books that claim the shroud shows a body that was still alive when wrapped in the cloth (The Jesus Conspiracy by Kersten and Gruber). They do discuss the evidence that the shroud existed prior to the lifetime of Leonardo, but they quickly explain it all away. The many characters and dates involved become confusing -- a timeline of the many mentions and appearances of a holy shroud throughout history would have been nice.<br />Their experimental work with a photographic method of imprinting an image on cloth is impressive and is a better explanation than any of the other shroud writers, but they should have carried their work a bit further. The books feels incomplete. It is interesting, but not enough to really explain the Turin Shroud.t we may never know. Excuse me? The \\"true believers\\" know exactly where the crucified body came from, since they believe it was Jesus and according to the New Testament, Jesus was crucified. It is enough of a stretch to say Leonardo used his own head, since the process suggested would rely on the sun for exposure and it would take a very long exposure to make an image. Of course, Leonardo may have made a cast of his own face and worked with the cast (just as the authors did). But it's hard to see how he could have made a life-size cast of a body that has the marks of crucifixion on it that would result in an image of such good quality. And manipulating a cloth as large as the shroud to get the exposure in the right place and of good quality sounds like a task even Leonardo might be unable to accomplish. It would require a huge camera obscura!<br />They also don't deal with the other books that claim the shroud shows a body that was still alive when wrapped in the cloth (The Jesus Conspiracy by Kersten and Gruber). They do discuss the evidence that the shroud existed prior to the lifetime of Leonardo, but they quickly explain it all away. The many characters and dates involved become confusing -- a timeline of the many mentions and appearances of a holy shroud throughout history would have been nice.<br />Their experimental work with a photographic method of imprinting an image on cloth is impressive and is a better explanation than any of the other shroud writers, but they should have carried their work a bit further. The books feels incomplete. It is interesting, but not enough to really explain the Turin Shroud.	2004-06-23
US	50854525	R34DIH1ONVNA6W	0688116752	655450573	Princess: A True Story of Life Behind the Veil in Saudi Arabia	Books	5	5	9	N	N	STUNNING REVELATION OF ABUSE OF WOMEN IN SAUDI ARABIA	Sultana's story is amazing, sad, and shocking. She paints a picture of living in incredible wealth and opulence, never having to work, always surrounded by servants, the table overflowing with expensive imported food. And yet, the conditions of her life are far worse than any working girl in America. Sultana is a princess of the royal house of Saud, yet her life -- and the life of all Saudi women -- is totally controlled by men.<br />Saudi women are mere possessions of men, with no rights. In Saudi Arabia, women's births and deaths are not recorded. Their fathers and later their husbands can have them killed or locked up forever in dark and solitary confinement for behavior that is considered ordinary in most other cultures. As I read her story, it occurred to me that women in Saudi Arabia have the same position in their society as pets have in mine. Many people love their pets and lavish them with affection and good care. The same is true of Saudi men's behavior toward their wives and daughters, but, like our relationship with our pets, the men can really do what they want. If someone kills their pet, there is usually no consequence unless it was done in a cruel manner. But a woman who has been raped through no fault of her own (as happens in one of Sultana's stories) can be put to death for \\"lewd behavior\\" and the type of death does not even have to be humane. One of Sultana's friends was drowned in a swimming pool by her father, and another was confined to a \\"women's room\\" (no light or human contact) til her death.<br />Sultana is spunkier than most, actually tricking her husband and escaping with her children to London when he tells her he is taking a second wife. Oh yes, let's don't forget that abuse! Men can have multiple wives, and girls can be married off, often to old men, as soon as their periods begin. Most have no chance for an education, nor can they reject the husband selected by their father. And of course, they must be constantly covered from head to foot with an ugly black garment.<br />I found the descriptions of Saudi society most unappealing. We have here a people who do no work and retain for themselves obscene amounts of wealth, with which they do little but build huge palaces mostly decorated in poor taste. I wonder if Sultana could even survive as an American who might have to clean her own house, cook her own food, and work for a living. That would be a big change from having five palaces and three Lear Jets! The men usually don't bother to work either; they live off the oil money.<br />For a story eerily similar to Princess where the heroine actually does flee her homeland and become a working American, I recommend Mirage by Soheir Khashoggi. It's fiction, but the situations are very much alike, with Mirage also featuring a wealthy Muslim woman oppressed by men, but finally making her escape. That book, like Princess, is a stunner.<br />I know it's not politically correct to bring up the role of Islam in this abusive behavior, but religion is the justification for the Saudi treatment of women, and the verses form the Koran in the back of the book make it clear that Islam recommends harsh treatment of women in many circumstances. Certainly the Saudis carry it to extremes, but Islam is no friend of females. Neither is Christianity or Judaism, which are both male-centered, but I know of no nation that tops Saudi Arabia for abuse of women.o foot with an ugly black garment.<br />I found the descriptions of Saudi society most unappealing. We have here a people who do no work and retain for themselves obscene amounts of wealth, with which they do little but build huge palaces mostly decorated in poor taste. I wonder if Sultana could even survive as an American who might have to clean her own house, cook her own food, and work for a living. That would be a big change from having five palaces and three Lear Jets! The men usually don't bother to work either; they live off the oil money.<br />For a story eerily similar to Princess where the heroine actually does flee her homeland and become a working American, I recommend Mirage by Soheir Khashoggi. It's fiction, but the situations are very much alike, with Mirage also featuring a wealthy Muslim woman oppressed by men, but finally making her escape. That book, like Princess, is a stunner.<br />I know it's not politically correct to bring up the role of Islam in this abusive behavior, but religion is the justification for the Saudi treatment of women, and the verses form the Koran in the back of the book make it clear that Islam recommends harsh treatment of women in many circumstances. Certainly the Saudis carry it to extremes, but Islam is no friend of females. Neither is Christianity or Judaism, which are both male-centered, but I know of no nation that tops Saudi Arabia for abuse of women.	2004-05-20
US	50854525	R3NZ0P8LBOZ2OD	187890132X	731198652	Racketeering in Medicine: The Suppression of Alternatives	Books	3	50	51	N	N	TELLS IT LIKE IT IS	I could have wished for better, more focused writing, as this book wanders around a lot -- but Dr. Carter provides plenty of examples of useful therapies that we don't get to try because Big Pharma can't profit from them. He shows how our &quot;free enterprise&quot; medicine is driven by profit and how large special-interest organizations (drug companies, insurance companies, government agencies, big bucks charities and especially, the AMA) determine what kind of treatments are considered &quot;legitimate.&quot;<br />He shows how the government's requirements for testing new (and old, but never &quot;scientifically&quot; tested)) treatments, along with the almost fanatic belief in double-blind trials keeps good therapies from public use. Many other countries sanction these therapies, but in the US, allopathic medicine  - led by the AMA -has a virtual monopoly on providing health care.<br />Since Dr. Carter wrote this book, the situation has improved a bit for alternative treatments, but overall, health care in the US is stagnant and disastrously expensive. If we had a system where the incentives were for delivery of good, cost-effective care for everyone, we would get fewer bypass operations, take fewer pills, and get fewer high-tech tests. But we'd be much better off as a society than we are with our bloated, overpriced profit-driven health care environment that mainly benefits big drug and insurance companies and highly-paid providers and executives.<br />The most shocking revelation in the book is how local medical societies team up with government to persecute providers who use unorthodox treatments. The medical profession claims it uses hearings to weed out bad doctors, but it seems these local medical societies mostly go after doctors who might have a treatment (like EDTA chelation) that doesn't cost enough. AMA doctors, hospitals, and even insurance companies would rather do a $30,000 operation than let someone suffering from clogged arteries have a $3000 treatment.<br />We Americans pay obscene (and unsustainable) amounts of money for health insurance only to be denied payment for treatments we may choose for ourselves. These denials of payment and persecutions of pratitioners are the actions of a monopoly protecting its own financial interest.<br />When will the American people demand a change? Wake up, America! You do not have the best medical care in the world, just the most expensive.eatment. <br />We Americans pay obscene (and unsustainable) amounts of money for health insurance only to be denied payment for treatments we may choose for ourselves. These denials of payment and persecutions of pratitioners are the actions of a monopoly protecting its own financial interest.<br />When will the American people demand a change? Wake up, America! You do not have the best medical care in the world, just the most expensive.	2004-05-09
US	50854525	R1HFE4YVM3V0UU	0451174968	735466832	Unholy Fire (Signet)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	SENSELESS EVIL	I've always admired Whitley Streiber's talent with words, and he succeeds in creating an atmosphere of evil in this novel, but the plot just doesn't hang together. I found the character Maria puzzling and wondered if we'd learn more about why she seduces priests, but unless I missed something, we never do. The action moves on to the three priests and the two detectives and we never find out what Maria did with that leather cape, or why she screwed the young priest but loved the old priest.<br />Then there's the matter of the horrible acts, the cruel burning of the victims. Are we to assume that the seduction had something to do with invoking the evil presence responsible for these acts, or was Maria, like Mary, pure and good?<br />I got to the end of the book and felt unsatisfied. I realized I had no idea why any of the evil deeds happened. The tidbits thrown in about the Inquisition and the obsession with fire were interesting, and we even get a priest who was abused (by a bishop!) as a child, but there seemed to be no concept behind the story. What is the lesson we are suposed to get from reading this? Or were we just supposed to enjoy the terror?<br />I've read all of Streiber's alien contact books which are compelling and beautifully-written, but after reading this novel I see why some people think he is simply a nut case.	2004-04-22
US	50854525	ROSO6Q7DLM23H	0880642262	525426290	Alien Dawn: An Investigation into the Contact Experience	Books	4	5	5	N	N	PURE COLIN WILSON -FASCINATING BUT INCOMPLETE	In this fascinating book, the incredibly fertile mind of Colin Wilson analyzes the morass of data on every aspect of the UFO phenomenon. It is Wilson's synthesis of disparate sources that makes this book worthwhile, as he tries to pull together the many and seemingly unrelated unexplained phenomena such as crop circles, cattle mutilations, missing time, apparitions, poltergeists, and new theories of physics. He almost succeeds.<br />If you're a fan of Colin Wilson (as I am) you'll not be too put off by his unusual treatment of the subject. But if you have never considered the possibility that reality actually consists of much  more than we perceive with our senses, never looked at the evidence for the existence of a spiritual world, then you might have problems following his logic. Once you accept the reality of other worlds that coexist with ours and occasionally break through to ours (ie, seeing ghosts), you can begin to understand the argument that UFOs might come from those other realities. But does that mean they are not solid objects? No, when they are in our reality, they are solid. Is there any technology involved? Yes, apparently so, but not in a way we can understand since we begin with the wrong assumptions.<br />Wilson draws heavily on the ideas of Jacques Vallee (also my favorite UFO writer) who relates the UFO experience to reports from past times of fairies, gnomes, elves, and \\"little people.\\" In Vallee's estimation, we are wasting our time trying to figure out alien propulsion systems. We should be examining our own culture and our own consciousness to find out why we see and experience these things. Are they somehow built into us or are they built into the universe we inhabit and which our science has misunderstood?<br />Wilson provides a summary of Vallee's views on UFOs over the years he wrote about them beginning with his seminal work, Passport to Magonia. Vallee moved from France to America where he was an associate of Dr. J. Allen Hynek who is most remembered for declaring a series of sightings over western Michigan as \\"swamp gas.\\" I live in Michigan and I well remember that incident. Everyone was indignant that sightings of numerous reliable witnesses were so easily (and stupidly!) dismissed, and the swamp gas excuse became a local joke. Wilson says the \\"swamp gas\\" episode was the beginning of a new public interest in UFOs. It was also the beginning of the realization that the US government did not intend to be honest with the public about UFOs.<br />Wilson has done a service in pointing out the similarity of UFOs to other strange phenomena. His relating them to what is usually called spiritualism is an especially good insight. There is a large and mostly unknown literature that sheds light on this spirit world. I was pleased to see Wilson is familiar with the works of Allan Kardec (also known as Leon Rivail). He wrote down what he learned from contact with advanced spirits, given through mediums, and what he learned is contained in The Spirits Book. The ideas in this book and his other writings have taken hold in Brazil, where they are the basis of the popular Spiritist movement. But Spiritism is not a \\"religion\\" as such. Most Spiritists are Christians, but they use contact with spirits (who are all around us) to help attain greater spiritual advancement. They also understand that spirits exist on numerous levels (or frequencies) and we attract spirits whose level of spiritual power is similar to our own. Bad attracts bad. Good attracts good. Spirits lie and deceive just like earth-bound humans. Wilson provides some stories of contactees who were given advance knowledge of events that actually came to pass, but then suddenly were given false information and ended up humiliated. One professor so duped by a spirit (or alien?) lost his academic job after predicting the end of the world.<br />Many characteristics of aliens and their powers seem to relate to the afterlife, where our own spirits go after physical death. This is exactly the conclusion of another UFO researcher, Raymond Fowler, who has spent a lifetime studying the case of Betty Andreason Luca, who was repeatedly abducted from childhood. Her aliens could go through walls, and Betty herself seemed to be taken both in and out of body. Her aliens seemed to use both technology and powers of mind. Fowler concludes that aliens come from our own afterlife, or to put it another way, they come from the invisible spirit world. They have learned how to break through to our own world. (I recommend The Watchers and The Watcher II by Raymond Fowler)<br />To what purpose are these aliens deceiving us? Wilson concludes that through our perception of and attempts to understand these anomolous happenings, mankind will be able to shift into a higher level of consciousness. These events help us \\"wake up\\" to a new vision of reality. This is a very different conclusion from those who see aliens as evil beings from Zeta Reticuli who intend to take over our planet.<br />While I loved this book, which was full of interesting stories and drew on so many rich concepts, Wilson's overall conclusions fall short. A new understanding of reality makes sense of many anomalous events, including a lot of incidents categorized as \\"UFO activity\\" but it doesn't deal with other aspects of the UFO problem. Wilson neatly avoids writing about Area 51 or the testimony of Bob Lazar who claims to have seen a flying saucer in a hangar there, where American technicians were trying to reverse engineer it. He seems to regard the Majestic 12 documents as forgeries, but does not give us any reasons why (other than a lame comment about Truman's signature). He does not deal with the obvious government cover-up of information relating to UFO sightings. None of these failures invalidate his main ideas, but we are left with an incomplete picture of the &quot;what&quot; and the &quot;why&quot; of UFOs. But maybe that just proves Wilson's thesis that it is our endless searching for answers that will bring us to a higher state of consciousness.sical death. This is exactly the conclusion of another UFO researcher, Raymond Fowler, who has spent a lifetime studying the case of Betty Andreason Luca, who was repeatedly abducted from childhood. Her aliens could go through walls, and Betty herself seemed to be taken both in and out of body. Her aliens seemed to use both technology and powers of mind. Fowler concludes that aliens come from our own afterlife, or to put it another way, they come from the invisible spirit world. They have learned how to break through to our own world. (I recommend The Watchers and The Watcher II by Raymond Fowler)<br />To what purpose are these aliens deceiving us? Wilson concludes that through our perception of and attempts to understand these anomolous happenings, mankind will be able to shift into a higher level of consciousness. These events help us \\"wake up\\" to a new vision of reality. This is a very different conclusion from those who see aliens as evil beings from Zeta Reticuli who intend to take over our planet.<br />While I loved this book, which was full of interesting stories and drew on so many rich concepts, Wilson's overall conclusions fall short. A new understanding of reality makes sense of many anomalous events, including a lot of incidents categorized as \\"UFO activity\\" but it doesn't deal with other aspects of the UFO problem. Wilson neatly avoids writing about Area 51 or the testimony of Bob Lazar who claims to have seen a flying saucer in a hangar there, where American technicians were trying to reverse engineer it. He seems to regard the Majestic 12 documents as forgeries, but does not give us any reasons why (other than a lame comment about Truman's signature). He does not deal with the obvious government cover-up of information relating to UFO sightings. None of these failures invalidate his main ideas, but we are left with an incomplete picture of the &quot;what&quot; and the &quot;why&quot; of UFOs. But maybe that just proves Wilson's thesis that it is our endless searching for answers that will bring us to a higher state of consciousness.	2004-04-11
US	50854525	R1O9AMEQ08O5MZ	0971435235	936181379	Spiritual Enlightenment: The Damnedest Thing	Books	4	21	24	N	N	Enlightenment 101	I'll admit, Jed McKenna's book is an unexpected source of lessons about enlightenment, coming as it does from someone who sounds pretty ordinary and claims to live in a farmhouse in rural Iowa. We don't learn anything about Jed's actual background or how he pays the bills at the farmhouse, but we get lots of dialog between Jed and would-be disciples who want to \\"wake up\\" and be enlightened like Jed, who gather at his house hoping to get on a track to enlightenment. Jed has no spiritual goodies to dispense, no feel-good peak experiences to lead us to, he just hammers home that enlightenment is a state of being which, once achieved, does not go away. Enlightened persons cannot go back. They exist in a condition of \\"nonduality\\" that means they are no longer stuck in a role like the rest of us. They have discarded the character they used to be.<br />I found his use of the expression \\"awake\\" (enlightened persons are \\"awake\\" and the rest of us are \\"asleep\\") interesting since it is the same expression used by Gurdjieff and expounded in the works based on his teachings by P.D. Ouspensky. I read Ouspensky's book In Search of the Miraculous and was quickly lost in a maze of obscure concepts. But I was intrigued by the idea that most of us go through life \\"asleep\\" and that there are ways to \\"wake up.\\" I once found a copy of Ouspenky's The Fourth Way at a used book sale and brought it home thinking I'd persevere through it and get some illumination on how to wake up. A short time with the book revealed it to be even more obscure than my first attempt at understanding Gurdjieff. So the book went into the bin to be resold on Amazon. Someone else bought it and is probably now scratching their head at the difficult ideas within.<br />But you won't find any difficult ideas in Jed's book. At least not in the same way as with Gurdjieff. Jed lays it all out in a series of conversations, many involving analogies that you can follow quite easily. The hard part is actually becoming enlightened and Jed is not encouraging about the prospects for success. Getting there is painful, as we see as one of Jed's seekers gets to the First Step at the end of the book. By showing us a cast of characters trying to learn from him, Jed leads us gently through what enlightenment is not and guides those who want to go there to what it is. After reading this book, I'm not sure I want to go there, even though I'd like to \\"wake up.\\" Jed's explanations are simple, but what he expects you to do to achieve enlightenment is not.tened and Jed is not encouraging about the prospects for success. Getting there is painful, as we see as one of Jed's seekers gets to the First Step at the end of the book. By showing us a cast of characters trying to learn from him, Jed leads us gently through what enlightenment is not and guides those who want to go there to what it is. After reading this book, I'm not sure I want to go there, even though I'd like to \\"wake up.\\" Jed's explanations are simple, but what he expects you to do to achieve enlightenment is not.	2004-03-18
US	50854525	R1KQC6QHB4CSSU	0945685254	159886736	Lost Science	Books	3	30	31	N	Y	BAD WRITING, GOOD INFORMATION	It's too bad that Gerry Vassilatos didn't hire a good editor to clean up his tortured treatment of the English language in this book because he has some great material. It's clear he did considerable research in profiling the discoveries of a number of inventors whose brilliant work never made it to mainstream America. Too bad, since we could be enjoying free energy, warp drive to the stars and a cure for cancer. I don't mean that sarcastically either -- I think these men (they were all men) actually made the discoveries claimed in the book. One reason I bought this book was my interest in the work of Royal R. Rife, who, judging from all sources I've seen, really invented a machine that stopped cancer; his cure rate was 100% But we don't have this machine today, nor do we have the unlimited wireless energy promised by Nikola Tesla (another amazing and fascinating character) or the fusion reactor that actually worked, as created by Philo T. Farnsworth.  The author gives us a feast of unrealized potential for the betterment of society.<br />And that brings me to another problem with this book. The author weaves his own opinions and ideas in among the stories of these inventors, and due again to his idiosyncratic writing style, it is often unclear as to just what point he is trying to make. He mixes metaphors in appearing to endorse the old idea of the \\"ether\\" which he introduces along with his first story, that of Baron Von Reichenbach and his \\"od\\" energy. The idea of a natural type of energy that is not electricity, but exists in abundance, is part of many of these inventions. Apparently Tesla was sensitive to this energy. But what exactly is it? It is always a kind of radiance that can be tapped by those who know it's there, who can listen to the earth, or feel it in the radiance from the moon (Von Reichenbach's somnambulists were driven crazy by moonlight). The author often becomes lyrical as he talks about the dream state, the shared consciousness, the archetypes, the sea of ideas that he sees as the source of all great breakthroughs. The ideas are apparently \\"in the ether.\\" The inventor brings them forth, as gifts to mankind. But some gifts never reach the intended recipients because society runs on money, not creativity, and there are often powerful vested interests that stand to lose financially from technological changes. Technology gets suppressed because the military wants it or some organization wants to keep doing things the same old lucrative way.<br />I was startled to read in this book a new theory of the Philadelphia Experiment. In this version, the military first noticed the invisibility function while using huge and high-powered arc welding equipment, and they consulted Dr. Thomas Moray who had discovered a similar effect. Working together, they equipped the USS Eldridge with the equipment which made the ship blink invisible, with disastrous effect on the crew. There have been many versions and retellings of this event, and here is one more (from a source that is not Carlos Allende).<br />The author concludes with a little tale about water and fire and how mankind lost \\"contact with the inner water world\\" through its belief in the power of fire. We lost our way when we bought into the \\"thermodynamic model of the world.\\" I think somewhere in all this garbled and often grammatically incorrect language is a profound thought. I guess as a professional editor myself, I find sentences that twist and turn without meaning especially annoying. I could have done with fewer sentences like \\"Dream waves ebb and flow in the mind of humanity.\\" I would love to have a crack at editing this tangled mess of words into something coherent, but despite its considerable shortcomings, this book was worth reading. Like I said, if you can wade through the overdone metaphors, repetitious concepts, and bad English, you might be able to pick up some actual ideas.the sea of ideas that he sees as the source of all great breakthroughs. The ideas are apparently \\"in the ether.\\" The inventor brings them forth, as gifts to mankind. But some gifts never reach the intended recipients because society runs on money, not creativity, and there are often powerful vested interests that stand to lose financially from technological changes. Technology gets suppressed because the military wants it or some organization wants to keep doing things the same old lucrative way.<br />I was startled to read in this book a new theory of the Philadelphia Experiment. In this version, the military first noticed the invisibility function while using huge and high-powered arc welding equipment, and they consulted Dr. Thomas Moray who had discovered a similar effect. Working together, they equipped the USS Eldridge with the equipment which made the ship blink invisible, with disastrous effect on the crew. There have been many versions and retellings of this event, and here is one more (from a source that is not Carlos Allende).<br />The author concludes with a little tale about water and fire and how mankind lost \\"contact with the inner water world\\" through its belief in the power of fire. We lost our way when we bought into the \\"thermodynamic model of the world.\\" I think somewhere in all this garbled and often grammatically incorrect language is a profound thought. I guess as a professional editor myself, I find sentences that twist and turn without meaning especially annoying. I could have done with fewer sentences like \\"Dream waves ebb and flow in the mind of humanity.\\" I would love to have a crack at editing this tangled mess of words into something coherent, but despite its considerable shortcomings, this book was worth reading. Like I said, if you can wade through the overdone metaphors, repetitious concepts, and bad English, you might be able to pick up some actual ideas.	2004-03-02
US	50854525	R9SGJGFMBVQD9	0895296640	775908130	Dressed to Kill: The Link Between Breast Cancer and Bras	Books	4	156	174	N	N	AN EMOTIONAL ISSUE, BUT LISTEN UP - THEY'RE RIGHT!	It's obvious from the reviews here that this book brings out strong emotion in readers. They either see it as a life saver or are furious at the authors for suggesting a connection between wearing a bra and getting breast cancer. While I agree with the people who say the book makes sense, I'd also like to add that for me it was great to see something posItive in print about going braless. Personally, I have always hated wearing a bra and the first thing I do when I get home from work is to take off my bra. On days when I am home all day, I don't wear one. I put one on when I'm wearing clothes that would make it too obvious that there was no bra underneath if I didn't wear one, but I also heavily avoid such clothing. I do not do this because I'm trying to avoid cancer, but because bras are uncomfortable and (in my estimation) they serve no purpose.<br />The problem for me in more than 30 years of trying to avoid wearing a bra is the many conflicting ways other people interpret my behavior. In my younger years, my husband used to call it \\"the no-bra look\\" and that always made me angry. I would reply that it is not \\"a look\\" -- I am not trying to \\"look\\" like anything, I am merely trying to be comfortable. If I sometimes \\"jiggle' that can be interpreted as some kind of moral evil. Why? Are breasts evil? You might think so if you consider the fuss made over Janet Jackson's breast at the 2004 Super Bowl! To other people I suppose I just look like an uneducated slob -- after all, where do you see women without bras? In poor countries, in the pages of National Geographic magazine. Don't \\"civilized\\" women all wear bras? The authors point out that the bra is a fairly recent invention. For thousands of years of history, women got by without wearing bras.<br />These authors are not the first to believe in a connection between bra-wearing and cancer. In 1983, I was in the hospital and the woman in the bed next to mine had cancer. She told me she got the disease from wearing a bra. Apparently, her doctor thought so. I have read of this in other sources as well. But since the cancer industry brings in Big Bucks for many institutions and individuals, this simplistic idea -- that taking off your bra will decrease your risk of getting breast cancer -- will not appeal to any of them. I found most poignant of all the authors' statement that not one of the organizations or individuals to whom they sent their research replied. This is just too emotional an issue for any of those organizations to even comment.<br />The authors mention that one of the reasons that's been given for wearing a bra is the belief that your breasts will get saggy over the years if you don't wear one. I heard that argument many years ago too and now I've been avoiding bras long enough to have an answer to that by looking in the mirror. Nope, they don't sag!<br />I won't go on a crusade to tell other women to quit wearing a bra, but I hope more women will think about why they wear one and if they find their bra uncomfortable, try taking it off. Believe me, not having anything cutting into your shoulders and mid-section is really wonderful. And it's nice to know I have been reducing my risk of breast cancer by doing what feels good.. Apparently, her doctor thought so. I have read of this in other sources as well. But since the cancer industry brings in Big Bucks for many institutions and individuals, this simplistic idea -- that taking off your bra will decrease your risk of getting breast cancer -- will not appeal to any of them. I found most poignant of all the authors' statement that not one of the organizations or individuals to whom they sent their research replied. This is just too emotional an issue for any of those organizations to even comment. <br />The authors mention that one of the reasons that's been given for wearing a bra is the belief that your breasts will get saggy over the years if you don't wear one. I heard that argument many years ago too and now I've been avoiding bras long enough to have an answer to that by looking in the mirror. Nope, they don't sag! <br />I won't go on a crusade to tell other women to quit wearing a bra, but I hope more women will think about why they wear one and if they find their bra uncomfortable, try taking it off. Believe me, not having anything cutting into your shoulders and mid-section is really wonderful. And it's nice to know I have been reducing my risk of breast cancer by doing what feels good.	2004-02-08
US	50854525	R1EQ6T0NNHK4M0	0312964137	282604606	Psychic Warrior: The True Story of America's Foremost Psychic Spy and the Cover-Up of the CIA's Top-Secret Stargate Program	Books	4	15	21	N	N	WHAT YOUR GOVERNMENT DOESNT WANT YOU TO KNOW	This book pulled me in as I read of David Morehouse's experiences as a Remote Viewer and his subsequent disallusionment with the program and finally his clash with the government over his desire to \\"tell all.\\" I've read several of Joe McMoneagle's books (I loved \\"The Ultimate Time Machine\\") and know that a number of other Viewers who worked for government programs have gone public as well. Morehouse has an amazing story of developing psychic (or perhaps psychotic) abilities after a bullet fired at him lodged in his helmet but did not penetrate his head.<br />Morehouse paints himself as a victim, confused about the visions he was seeing and desperately wanting a solution. But in the Army, it would not do to announce that you see distant events and talk to \\"angels\\" so Morehouse is left to suffer. Until an Army psychologist refers him to the Remote Viewing project. Morehouse describes himself as a fast learner as he absorbs the method of traveling in time and space. His descriptions of exactly how this was done and how it felt are the best I've read anywhere. He takes incredible journeys in his spirit body -- seeing the Ark of the Covenant and walking on the surface of Mars!<br />But Morehouse is bothered by the use of these abilities -- the government keeps knowledge of Remote Viewing from the public and uses psychics for military purposes rather than harnessing the power for good. I was shocked to read that Morehouse \\"saw\\" canisters of chemical gas in the burning oil fields of Iraq during Desert Storm. The implication is clear -- the government knew American soldiers were exposed to chemicals that would ultimately make them sick, yet it went ahead and ended the war and said nothing to Veterans about the danger to which they'd been exposed. I also wondered why the government didn't use Remote Viewers in 2003 to find those missing weapons of mass destruction in Iraq, or to discover that none existed! Yes, I know the Remote Viewing program is supposed to be disbanded, but Morehouse implies that it must be continuing and once again the public is in the dark.<br />Moreshouse takes loads of credit for \\"going public\\" with Remote Viewing, and there is no doubt that he was treated shabbily by the government he had served as an Army officer. But how true are the events described in this book? How could Morehouse remember all the dialog that is on these pages? The story reads like a novel, with his relationship with his wife and kids a dizzying swing between on and off as he deals with his persistent visions and physical symptoms. His wife wants to help him, but also wants to preserve some kind of normal life for her children. She thinks medical treatment, not doing Remote Viewing, is what David needs.  But I do believe that there really was no help for a condition like this. It's easy for the medical profession to simply label someone like Morehouse a nut and pump him full of drugs (as was eventually done). Because Morehouse had talent as a Viewer, the government could exploit his ability without caring about his personal emotional trauma.<br />Morehouse does not really explain the mechanism behind his fearsome visions, like imagining himself killing his whole family, or seeing monsters attack him and finding himself all bloody. Of course, in some ways that's the point -- he didn't understand what was happening. But the problem is, neither do we. I can only take this story as Morehouse's memory of what happened to him during his years in the Army. It provides a frightening picture of the power of the government over people who reveal information the government wants kept secret. But it also reveals a complex and comforting view of reality where we are all connected and we are immortal. Morehouse's picture of the spirit world is very consistent with other pictures from other sources that claim such knowledge. I'd have to say that overall the story rings true. And if true, it has many far-reaching implications.but Morehouse implies that it must be continuing and once again the public is in the dark.<br />Moreshouse takes loads of credit for \\"going public\\" with Remote Viewing, and there is no doubt that he was treated shabbily by the government he had served as an Army officer. But how true are the events described in this book? How could Morehouse remember all the dialog that is on these pages? The story reads like a novel, with his relationship with his wife and kids a dizzying swing between on and off as he deals with his persistent visions and physical symptoms. His wife wants to help him, but also wants to preserve some kind of normal life for her children. She thinks medical treatment, not doing Remote Viewing, is what David needs.  But I do believe that there really was no help for a condition like this. It's easy for the medical profession to simply label someone like Morehouse a nut and pump him full of drugs (as was eventually done). Because Morehouse had talent as a Viewer, the government could exploit his ability without caring about his personal emotional trauma.<br />Morehouse does not really explain the mechanism behind his fearsome visions, like imagining himself killing his whole family, or seeing monsters attack him and finding himself all bloody. Of course, in some ways that's the point -- he didn't understand what was happening. But the problem is, neither do we. I can only take this story as Morehouse's memory of what happened to him during his years in the Army. It provides a frightening picture of the power of the government over people who reveal information the government wants kept secret. But it also reveals a complex and comforting view of reality where we are all connected and we are immortal. Morehouse's picture of the spirit world is very consistent with other pictures from other sources that claim such knowledge. I'd have to say that overall the story rings true. And if true, it has many far-reaching implications.	2004-01-29
US	50854525	R1CTDM0F4O8C6P	0812916662	949567629	The Presence of the Past: Morphic Resonance and the Habits of Nature	Books	5	44	47	N	N	UNFORGETTABLE IDEAS	I read this book some years ago and find the ideas in it have stayed with me, as they go a long way toward filling some holes in our understanding of reality. Sheldrake's Morphic Fields mean living things communicate even when they are not in physical proximity. This explains some of his other research, such as psychic connections between human and animal. Read Sheldrake's book, Dogs That Know When Their Owners are Coming Home, a fascinating look at the human-animal bond.<br />But the idea that once a new technique is learned by part of the population, it is more easily learned by the rest is startling. Can it explain the rapid spread of computer literacy? Like the old joke in school, can we actually learn \\"by osmosis?\\" Sheldrake's examples of group behavior and generational learning in the animal world points exactly in that direction. What one generation learns can be passed to the next. What I learn can make it easier for you to learn. This is a radical idea!<br />I've recently read astronaut Dr. Edgar Mitchell's book, The Way of the Explorer, in which he presents his view of reality, based on years of research into psychic and spiritual pehonomenon. His view incorporates Sheldrake's ideas in that he accounts for knowledge that does not come from standard learning methods. Knowledge received from spiritual insight or received psychically is part of the natural but unseen web underlying our universe, according to Mitchell. All knowledge of past and present is available, but is not sought by most people, since they do not know or practice the techniques for tapping into that source and there are no currently accepted scientific theories to explain how it works. Sheldrake's Morphic Fields are one such explanation.<br />The Presence of the Past is an influential book that will continue to be consulted and discussed. Since reading it, I've had more reason to think Sheldrake is right and I've read nothing elsewhere that disproves his fascinating conclusions.	2004-01-18
US	50854525	R2HU2ME47XZXC5	0399141618	378956700	The Way of the Explorer: An Apollo Astronaut's Journey Through the Material and Mystical Worlds	Books	4	62	68	N	N	A NEW SYNTHESYS FOR AN OLD DILLEMMA	Dr. Mitchell asks the same questions as all seekers, and rightly connects the search for knowledge about self with the search for an understanding of the universe. He begins his book with a short personal history, bringing the reader up to a description of his incredible journey to the moon. As a US Apollo astronaut, he walked on the lumar surface. During the journey back to earth, he experienced a sudden insight about the nature of reality, an understanding that came from an unknown source. The experience most resembled the reports of mystics, who generally ascribe a religious meaning to it. Mitchell has spent the years since that journey searching for a way to understand the experience, a way to bring together the disparate ways of knowing, the way of science and the way of religion.<br />While it is fascinating to read his descriptions of the view of earth from space and to know that seeing our beautiful mother earth from that vantage point could trigger such insights, what Mitchell describes is an experience many, many people have, as he later came to realize. It is the experience of \\"knowing without knowing how you know.\\" Sometimes the knowing concerns the nature of reality, as when you get the sense of the unity of all things, and sometimes it is a psychic insight, as in knowing someone has just died. Sometimes it is the amazing synchronicities that happen when you cease to believe they cannot happen.<br />This source of knowledge is real, so how does it work? There is no accepted scientific answer. At least there wasn't until Mitchell took on the task and gave us his dyadic theory of reality. It is an interesting explanation. The universe, in this view, evolved not just from energy but always incorporated intention. Consciousness is inherent in the universe and that is why, in the mystical experience, everything seems alive. There is no difference between the consciousness of my aloe plant on the windowsill, my cat who purrs beside me, and me. We use consciousness differently perhaps, but my plant grows better when I love it and want it to grow, I somehow know when my cat is outside the front door and wants to come in, and I use my consciousness to read books and learn more about my world. But the me that is sitting here looking out at everything else is victim of an illusion. It is only through working at techniques to shut out externals that it is possible to gain some realization of the unity, or to put it another way, to access the web that connects everything and that is the actual source of the knowledge that comes to us in these \\"mystical\\" experiences.<br />Dr. Mitchell's book takes us into heavy material, not always easy to grasp, and sometimes possessing its own assumptions. He seems intent on eliminating religious metaphors completely, as if providing an explanation that \\"works\\" means there is no longer a use for the concept of God. I have to agree with him that the long-standing practice of representatives of religious organizations of dismissing anything without a scientific explanation as \\"a miracle of God\\" (or sometimes as \\"the work of the devil\\") has retarded our ability to scrutinize any actual process at work. Likewise, it isn't helpful when scientists simply dismiss anything that doesn't fit their current understanding of reality -- Uri Geller must be a fraud because science can't explain how he bends those spoons. And since Uri is not a saintly person, it must not be \\"a miracle.\\"<br />Because \\"God\\" is used to cover everything for which there is no scientific explanation does not invalidate the concept of a supreme presence, just as science is not useless even though it is intolerant of alternate explanations. It seems to me Mitchell neglects the idea of \\"purpose\\" just as he does not accept reincarnation, suggesting the past lives remembered are the result of accessing the universal web, the holographic record of everything (much like Edgar Cayce's \\"Akashic Record\\"). Could this be just a semantic difference, if we are all part of the same consciousness? While Mitchell's concepts \\"fit\\" the essentially religious experiences of those who believe in the immortality of the soul, it does not encompass the soul's purpose of perfecting itself through lifetimes of spiritual growth.<br />As I read this book, I found Mitchell has read the same authors I've read, and he mentions the same cast of characters with whom seekers are familiar, whether they write from a research, mystical or physics point of view. His desire to reconcile science and religion is the same desire many of us share. The journey inward is as worthwhile as the journey to other planets. Our yearning to know who we are can only be satisfied when we truly achieve the synthesis Dr. Mitchell seeks. You'll have to read and decide if Mitchell, as an explorer extraordinaire, has found the answer.erence, if we are all part of the same consciousness? While Mitchell's concepts \\"fit\\" the essentially religious experiences of those who believe in the immortality of the soul, it does not encompass the soul's purpose of perfecting itself through lifetimes of spiritual growth. <br />As I read this book, I found Mitchell has read the same authors I've read, and he mentions the same cast of characters with whom seekers are familiar, whether they write from a research, mystical or physics point of view. His desire to reconcile science and religion is the same desire many of us share. The journey inward is as worthwhile as the journey to other planets. Our yearning to know who we are can only be satisfied when we truly achieve the synthesis Dr. Mitchell seeks. You'll have to read and decide if Mitchell, as an explorer extraordinaire, has found the answer.	2004-01-12
US	50854525	RWYD3HDNC3J7A	0425189082	21146026	The Etruscan Chimera (Archaeological Mysteries, No. 6)	Books	2	9	15	N	N	RATHER UNBELIEVABLE	I do love a story that can weave together an exotic location and a challenging mystery that reaches into the past. I thought that might be what I was getting in this novel, the first I'd read by this author. But by the middle of the book, I was so disgusted with the hackneyed writing I almost quit reading. If they were giving away awards for the most repitition of the word \\"rather,\\" Ms. Hamilton would be a shoo-in winner. The rather cardboard characters in this rather poorly-plotted book left me wondering why the heroine didn't just get on a rather large jet and fly home to her rather nice antique shop in Toronto. As for me, I'd rather read a well-written book than this one. Maybe the gross overuse of the word \\"rather\\" is a Canadian thing??<br /><br />The plot took many unexpected (and unexplainable) turns as the main character tried to figure out who wanted the Etruscan hydria and why it kept turning up in her car and hotel. In the end, the reasons were so laughable and improbable that it ceased to bother me that I couldn't remember who was who (they all seemed rather similar). Even the main character acted in ways that seemed unreal. Hadn't she bought a round-trip airline ticket? How could she simply endlessly extend her antique buying trip? Why was her $10,000 sudenly cut off and why did she continue spending like a drunken sailor after that? How was Lola able to live in Europe? She was there permanently but was living in hotels? And why wasn't she on the suspect list? Her behavior was just as strange as everyone else's. If I went to France and Italy, would handsome men just sit down next to me at the sidewalk cafes and start talking, offering to buy me dinner? If that happened, I'd know I was in a bad Lyn Hamilton novel.<br /><br />The only good point for this book is the information about the Etruscans, their art, and the important locations in Italy for their culture. The author clearly did some homework, but the Etruscan material is not really integral to the story. You could substitute pasta bowls or leather hats or some other collectible object. The fanatic collectors in the story and their actions were not believable. If you are going to use some ancient artifacts in a story, they need to have more meaning to the ultimate mystery that unfolds. In this story, nothing much unfolds except foolish people engaged in unfathomable behavior.<br /><br />If you want good writing, real mystery, great (and believable) plots combined with a superb sense of place, try Dan Brown or Tony Hillerman. In my humble opinion, Lyn Hamilton is not in the same league as those masters of the mystery.d substitute pasta bowls or leather hats or some other collectible object. The fanatic collectors in the story and their actions were not believable. If you are going to use some ancient artifacts in a story, they need to have more meaning to the ultimate mystery that unfolds. In this story, nothing much unfolds except foolish people engaged in unfathomable behavior.    If you want good writing, real mystery, great (and believable) plots combined with a superb sense of place, try Dan Brown or Tony Hillerman. In my humble opinion, Lyn Hamilton is not in the same league as those masters of the mystery.	2003-12-13
US	50854525	R1AU4012KXH8UH	0684839296	659815894	The Serpent and the Rainbow: A Harvard Scientist's Astonishing Journey into the Secret Societies of Haitian Voodoo, Zombis, and Magic	Books	3	37	79	N	N	The Ends Justify the Means?	The author takes us on his own macho trip to find the truth about Haitian zombies, prying his way into the ceremonial temples called \\"hounfours\\" where dancers in trance hold fire to their lips and are not harmed. Financed by  academic money, Davis made a number of trips to the island and managed to uncover much information about the practice of what we call \\"voodoo\\" and specifically about the making of zombies. Yes, there really are zombies, people supposedly dead and buried, but who emerge from the grave to become mindless slaves. How is this accomplished?<br />By buying his way into the favor of various \\"houngans,\\" the author appears to have found the answer. As an ethnobotanist, the author has the knowledge and skills to determine if the various wierd ingredients (ground human bones, lizards and toads, various plants, etc) actually have any pharmacological basis for causing a simulation of death and/or subsequent \\"resurrection.\\" While he watched as the houngans prepared the powder, he noted there were different formulas used, but each contained some of the same ingredients, and those could produce a death-like effect.<br />As I read this book, by the middle of it I found I did not like the author's methods nor much like the author; he blithely lied to people numerous times to get what he wanted, and the preparations he brought back were used on hapless rhesus monkeys to test their potency. In order to get at the methods and reasons for creating zombies, the author had to finally adopt a Haitian mind-set that brought conflicts with his Harvard Sophisticated background. It turns out that people are not snatched at random to be turned into zombies, but rather the practice is part of the fabric of Haitian culture, which, reflecting the African origins of its people, is actually governed by interlocking secret societies. The legal government could not exist without the consent of these societies, which are generally headed by houngans. The zombie \\"poison\\" is used on people who break what appear to be perfectly reasonable rules, and only after a judgment by their peers in which they have a chance to defend themselves.<br />The author ultimately finds that it is the beliefs -- the \\"magic\\" -- that makes the zombifiction possible. The powders he brings back to his civilized laboratories are crucial to the process, but it is the web of cultural beliefs that allow it to happen. As I got further into the book, I was glad the author finally saw that the best thing he could do is back off and recognize that he is not Haitian and he cannot penetrate the ultimate secrets of Haitian culture. I thought he went too far in buying his way into knowledge best left for those who can understand it. Some of his travels around the island were for tasks that were not well explained. Was he on a personal quest, a scientific mission, or just a traveler soaking up the local color?<br />The book provides much information on how Haiti came to be. I was surprised by the information that for 100 years Haiti was the only black-led nation. The history of the slave uprising is fascinating. Haitian culture is essentially African because the slave turnover was so great and many who participated in the final revolt had been born in Africa.<br />This book, while worthwhile for what it reveals about Haiti, made me think about the excesses of science in pursuit of knowledge. The Haitian people, through their interaction with the author, have proven that not all knowledge comes from logical discovery.  The dancers who gyrate to the drums in trance and serve the loas do not need an explanation of why the fire does not burn them. Perhaps we do not need an explanation either.eople who break what appear to be perfectly reasonable rules, and only after a judgment by their peers in which they have a chance to defend themselves.<br />The author ultimately finds that it is the beliefs -- the \\"magic\\" -- that makes the zombifiction possible. The powders he brings back to his civilized laboratories are crucial to the process, but it is the web of cultural beliefs that allow it to happen. As I got further into the book, I was glad the author finally saw that the best thing he could do is back off and recognize that he is not Haitian and he cannot penetrate the ultimate secrets of Haitian culture. I thought he went too far in buying his way into knowledge best left for those who can understand it. Some of his travels around the island were for tasks that were not well explained. Was he on a personal quest, a scientific mission, or just a traveler soaking up the local color?   <br />The book provides much information on how Haiti came to be. I was surprised by the information that for 100 years Haiti was the only black-led nation. The history of the slave uprising is fascinating. Haitian culture is essentially African because the slave turnover was so great and many who participated in the final revolt had been born in Africa.<br />This book, while worthwhile for what it reveals about Haiti, made me think about the excesses of science in pursuit of knowledge. The Haitian people, through their interaction with the author, have proven that not all knowledge comes from logical discovery.  The dancers who gyrate to the drums in trance and serve the loas do not need an explanation of why the fire does not burn them. Perhaps we do not need an explanation either.	2003-12-07
US	50854525	R98WQQUEVHSQJ	1852304855	278434701	The Jesus Conspiracy: The Turin Shroud and the Truth About Resurrection	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A Persuasive Case	The basic idea of this book, written by two European investigators and translated into English, is that the Shroud of Turin is genuine and represents the actual image of Jesus. So why did carbon-dating tests conducted in 1988 show it dates only to the 14th century?  The authors spend many pages showing in detail that the test was rigged. The cloth pieces that were analyzed by three labs were not from the shroud, but from a piece of cloth known to date from the 14th century. The authors were obsessive in their pursuit of the facts of the testing and show how the cloth could have been substituted. They interviewed everyone involved, often many times, and sometimes having to pursue people doggedly over time. They obtained photos of the supposed pieces of cloth and had the photos analyzed, and they watched (over and over) the video of the actual cutting of a piece of the shroud. They show how the reported weights of the pieces given to labs does not add up to the weight of the cloth cut from the shroud. Nor does the herringbone weave of the shroud match exactly to the weave pattern of the tested pieces.<br />So who would want the test to show that the shroud is not the burial cloth of Jesus? The surprising answer is -- the Vatican! The evidence that the rigging was a Vatican job is strong, and the reason also makes sense. The authors say the shroud shows a crucified man WHO IS NOT DEAD. If Jesus was not dead when he was taken down from the cross, then Catholic Church doctrine that makes Jesus' death a \\"sacrifice\\" that redeemed mankind from its sins is flawed. The Church cannot back down from any of its teachings, and would protect its existence by relegating the shroud to status of \\"interesting relic,\\" probably hoping people would just forget about it.<br />But this is a story that holds endless fascination for the Christian nations of the world. Is the image on the cloth that of Jesus? And how did the image get onto the cloth? The authors tackle that mystery too, postulating that the mixture of aloe and myrrh described in the Bible and possibly used to heal the wounds of an alive Jesus would contribute to creating the image. They experimented with their own mixture and tried smearing it on one of the authors, who was then wrapped with a linen cloth similar to the shroud material. They succeeded in obtaining an image, but it was not of the amazing lifelike quality of the shroud image.<br />The authors' conclusion -- that Jesus did not die on the cross -- is not unique, since many other researchers and authors have stated the same belief, and many of the attendant theories include the idea that Jesus was married to Mary Magdalene, had children, and founded a dynasty that still exists. The Jesus Conspiracy just adds more fuel to the fire. This book builds a persuasive and believable case, built around an extensive investigation of the Turin Shroud.ulating that the mixture of aloe and myrrh described in the Bible and possibly used to heal the wounds of an alive Jesus would contribute to creating the image. They experimented with their own mixture and tried smearing it on one of the authors, who was then wrapped with a linen cloth similar to the shroud material. They succeeded in obtaining an image, but it was not of the amazing lifelike quality of the shroud image.<br />The authors' conclusion -- that Jesus did not die on the cross -- is not unique, since many other researchers and authors have stated the same belief, and many of the attendant theories include the idea that Jesus was married to Mary Magdalene, had children, and founded a dynasty that still exists. The Jesus Conspiracy just adds more fuel to the fire. This book builds a persuasive and believable case, built around an extensive investigation of the Turin Shroud.	2003-11-06
US	50854525	R31XDSCQGU5VIO	1559724420	246158262	The Quest for Anastasia: Solving the Mystery of the Lost Romanovs	Books	3	17	21	N	N	But how did she escape the bullets??	This book is yet another version of the fascinating story of the last days of Tsar Nicholas II and his family. The book is strongest in its presentation of the endless squabbling among those with an interest in what happened to the Romanovs. That Nicholas and his family were taken to a basement room at Ipatiev House in Ekaterinberg, Siberia and shot seems to be well-documented. But exactly who did the shooting and why? The authors give us a cast of characters. The more interesting part -- and what is in dispute -- is this: Did everyone die in that basement? What happened after the shooting, when the soldiers hauled away the bodies? The authors try to retrace the events, but provide no story about any person in the basement group surviving, or how anyone could have survived.<br />And that brings us to the title of the book. Did Anastasia somehow survive the rain of bullets and thrusts of bayonets in that basement and reappear some years later in a mental hospital in Berlin? Was the woman known as Anna Anderson really Anastasia? As the authors point out -- but only after you've read to the end of the book -- DNA evidence says she was NOT Anastasia. If she was not Anastasia, how did she manage to convince many credible people, including people who knew Anastasia, that she was? The points of similarity were many, both physically and in her knowledge of the Russian court. Many of the people who believed she was the daughter of the tsar have not accepted the DNA evidence. Those who do accept it say she was really a Polish peasant who disappeared at the same time that \\"Anna\\" appeared.<br />Many people had vested interests in the story of Anna. Surviving members of the Romanov extended family supposedly wanted to make sure that Anna did not inherit any of the tsar's reported fortune (although no fortune was ever found), so it was because of their greed that they would not accept Anna as Anastasia. In some cases, investigators got sucked into the story (either looking for fame, fortune or simply charmed by Anna) and spent years of their lives trying to establish Anna's identity.<br />Those who persist in believing that Anna was Anastasia say a peasant girl could not have had such a \\"regal bearing\\" or knew as much about the Romanovs as Anna did. However, I see no reason why a Polish peasant girl who spent years in a hospital with nothing to do but read books and study couldn't have learned about the Russian court and couldn't have practiced acting like a Russian Grand Duchess. From the evidence, it appears that Anna came to believe she WAS the tsar's daughter. But if so, how did she claim to have escaped the bullets? Yes, she could have claimed amnesia about the event, but her identity as Anastasia is not believable without some accounting of her escape and the authors give us none. Perhaps because for them the DNA evidence was conclusive. Anna is NOT Anastasia.<br />The book is an entertaining read, and I enjoyed it, but it does not live up to its subtitle: \\"Solving the Mystery of the Lost Romanovs.\\" As long as some people will not let go of their vision of Anastasia, who still believe that Anna was the tsar's daughter, then the story goes on. There are also at least two \\"pretenders\\" who have said they are Alexei -- both are dead now, but their families press their claim. Since two bodies were never found -- those of Alexei and of one of the daughters -- it seems likely that this is one story that will never go away, a mystery that can never truly be solved.me, fortune or simply charmed by Anna) and spent years of their lives trying to establish Anna's identity. <br />Those who persist in believing that Anna was Anastasia say a peasant girl could not have had such a \\"regal bearing\\" or knew as much about the Romanovs as Anna did. However, I see no reason why a Polish peasant girl who spent years in a hospital with nothing to do but read books and study couldn't have learned about the Russian court and couldn't have practiced acting like a Russian Grand Duchess. From the evidence, it appears that Anna came to believe she WAS the tsar's daughter. But if so, how did she claim to have escaped the bullets? Yes, she could have claimed amnesia about the event, but her identity as Anastasia is not believable without some accounting of her escape and the authors give us none. Perhaps because for them the DNA evidence was conclusive. Anna is NOT Anastasia.<br />The book is an entertaining read, and I enjoyed it, but it does not live up to its subtitle: \\"Solving the Mystery of the Lost Romanovs.\\" As long as some people will not let go of their vision of Anastasia, who still believe that Anna was the tsar's daughter, then the story goes on. There are also at least two \\"pretenders\\" who have said they are Alexei -- both are dead now, but their families press their claim. Since two bodies were never found -- those of Alexei and of one of the daughters -- it seems likely that this is one story that will never go away, a mystery that can never truly be solved.	2003-10-30
US	50854525	R29KPQSMKC3Z2R	0609800671	870403448	5/5/2000: Ice- The Ultimate Disaster, Revised Edition	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Not Really About 5/5/2000	Okay, it's easy to make fun of this book because we now know NOTHING happened on 5/5/2000. The part about ice taking over sounds pretty dumb too, since we now know the real threat is global warming. I expected the book to make a case for global catastrophe from ice on 5/5/2000, but instead the book is mainly about the Great Pyramid, and much of it is fascinating. The author wrote this book over a long time period, and he made no attempt to edit his research into a harmonious whole. The book is bits and pieces and word-for-word interviews with various experts. In these pages, Noone gets around to discoursing on pretty much all of the hot topics beloved of alternate history writers. We read about Atlantis and Mu and dinosaurs coexisting with humans, the Ark of the Covenant, and even the mysterious Ica stones from Peru. Noone wanders all over the place, covering subjects only tangentially related. It is never clear what background or skills the author brings to his study. It seems to be pure curiosity that drove him to continue pursuing the subject.<br />The most wonderful part of this book is the many illustrations, most from previous publications, many very old. I admire the author for digging way in the past for information, and since the book was started so many years ago -- back in the 1970s -- some of his interviews are with people who are no longer with us. The information on Edward Kunkel, with his theory that the the Great Pyramid is a pump, is interesting in light of Christopher Dunn's excellent book, Giza Power Plant. Both men felt the Great Pyramid is a machine. Noone's interviews also show that other scholars in the past have felt the pyramid had a purpose other than being a tomb. Noone borrows heavily from Peter Tompkins, whose books brought to the public the many reasons why Egyptologists are probably wrong in their belief that the Great Pyramid was built as a tomb for the pharaoh Khufu.<br />After reading the wealth of information in Noone's book, I have to wonder how much the more recent authors in the genre -- Graham Hancock, Robert Bauval, etc -- owe to Noone. I have no idea why he called this book \\"5/5/2000.\\" Yes, he mentions that on that date the planets will be aligned, and he tells us about a group of people who founded Stelle, Illinois who were waiting for doomsday on that date, but this is not a major theme of the book, and the fact that no doomsday occurred does not make this odd collection of alternate history tidbits with its unusual two-column layout and copious pictures any less worth reading.e to wonder how much the more recent authors in the genre -- Graham Hancock, Robert Bauval, etc -- owe to Noone. I have no idea why he called this book \\"5/5/2000.\\" Yes, he mentions that on that date the planets will be aligned, and he tells us about a group of people who founded Stelle, Illinois who were waiting for doomsday on that date, but this is not a major theme of the book, and the fact that no doomsday occurred does not make this odd collection of alternate history tidbits with its unusual two-column layout and copious pictures any less worth reading.	2003-10-29
US	50854525	R1DOGZPAP9OUCK	0060675365	693359168	Why Christianity Must Change or Die: A Bishop Speaks to Believers In Exile	Books	4	19	24	N	N	UPDATES GOD BUT PRESERVES THE CHURCH -WHY?	John Shelby Spong wrote this book for people who could no longer accept the standard Christian theology. That certainly includes me, so I read his book with great interest. In many ways he mirrors my own thinking, but his long ecclesiastical background as an Episcopal Bishop gives us different vantage points.<br />Spong says the old concept of a theistic God is no longer useful in a modern world. God is not a person who lives in the sky and tinkers with our lives and sits in judgment. The steady march of knowledge about the vastness of the universe and our puny place in it has made that God obsolete. Spong is at his best when he is tracing the biblical roots of this God and showing how they arose, not out of any divine revelation, but were the natural product of the tribal societies with whom they originated.<br />I loved his chapter on \\"Jesus as Rescuer\\" in which he demolishes the doctrine that \\"Jesus died for our sins.\\" He goes on to argue against the Virgin Birth and Immaculate Conception, showing how, to people of the time, a sinless Jesus needed sinless progenitors. I was amused at his discourse on the Ten Commandments, as he actually pronounces some of them \\"immoral.\\" That's pretty heavy stuff. I was brought up Catholic, and I don't think the Catholic Church will be following Bishop Spong into rejection of these long-standing Christian ideas. I don't know much about Episcopalians (a church started by a king who wanted to divorce -- make that murder -- his wife!) but it seems to me these doctrines are the lever used to control people and perpetuate the church. The church will never let them go.<br />That brings me to my differences with Spong. He continually uses the word \\"worship;\\" he uses the word to mean the activity that goes on inside churches. It seems to me he has hung onto this word because there is no meaningful word for the hodgepodge of activities that occur inside church buildings. As to the word itself, surely a God who is in all of us and who encompasses the vast universe has no need to be worshiped. The whole idea of worshiping God is also obsolete, along with the other concepts Spong so deftly kills off.<br />I think he also misses the mark in his discussion of prayer. He asks why someone who is prayed for should recover from their illness while someone who is not prayed for does not recover. What kind of a God would be so influenced? What is wrong with this analysis, in my opinion, is the inclusion of God, who does not have to be involved in what we call prayer at all. Just as we do not need to worship God, neither do we need to petition him/her. Prayer, I believe, is really an aspect of non-local consciousness. It is a type of psychic phenomena if you will, a way one mind or spirit reaches out to another. The question is not who we pray TO but who we pray FOR.  We touch the other person or event with our spirit or inner energy. Prayer can be studied scientifically (to some extent) and studies have been done that seem to indicate prayer works.<br />In the same way, Spong does not offer us much in his discussion of life after death. While I like a lot of what he said about the value of what we do in this life, the real question is what happens when we die. Christian doctrine on this has emphasized the divine judgment which separates the good from the bad, relegating us to heaven or hell. Spong traces the theological roots back to the theistic God who is like a good parent, and the way these concepts of the next life were used by the church to control behavior in this life.<br />But is the concept of life after death totally bound up with reward and punishment? I think not. Today we have much evidence from Near Death Experience (NDE) and Out of Body Experience (OBE) and the testimony of mystics like Robert Monroe. There is a mini boom in contacting the dead (consider the popularity of John Edward's \\"Crossing Over\\") and millions of people accept these sources as proof that our spirits go on after we \\"cross over.\\" Again, where is God? He/she does not have to be in this equation either. The evidence seems to indicate that we take our emotional baggage with us to the other side, and we continue to grow spiritually in this new realm.<br />I also need to mention his attitude toward Jesus. Of course as a priest and bishop, Spong has had Jesus contiually in his life, and to say Jesus is just an interesting character in some ancient and unverified stories would be too painful. But Spong is willing to relegate many items in the Bible to mythical status, so why does he accept some (not all) of what is said about Jesus? Even interpreting the unacceptable (the birth in a stable, attended by three wise men, for instance) in new ways is hedging on whether anything written about Jesus is true. I agree that Jesus as described in the New Testament has much to offer. But how can we know what really happened thousands of years ago when the only testimony was written years later and has the bias of its time? Spong will not eliminate Jesus from his belief system, but many others who haven't spent decades in liturgical orthodoxy will.<br />So do all these transformations of the old Christian ideas mean there is no God? Not at all. I agree generally with Spong in his conclusions, but he is tied to his ecclesiastical past in a way that I am not. While I think churches have contributed to society by bringing people together and creating social bonds, and often doing good works, I cannot see how they can go on when the basic reason for their existence -- their theology, including Jesus -- can no longer be believed. Spong concludes his book by saying \\"I expect to enter even more deeply into the reality of the God in whom I have lived and moved and had my being.\\" Amen to that, but it does not require a church.over.\\" Again, where is God? He/she does not have to be in this equation either. The evidence seems to indicate that we take our emotional baggage with us to the other side, and we continue to grow spiritually in this new realm.<br />I also need to mention his attitude toward Jesus. Of course as a priest and bishop, Spong has had Jesus contiually in his life, and to say Jesus is just an interesting character in some ancient and unverified stories would be too painful. But Spong is willing to relegate many items in the Bible to mythical status, so why does he accept some (not all) of what is said about Jesus? Even interpreting the unacceptable (the birth in a stable, attended by three wise men, for instance) in new ways is hedging on whether anything written about Jesus is true. I agree that Jesus as described in the New Testament has much to offer. But how can we know what really happened thousands of years ago when the only testimony was written years later and has the bias of its time? Spong will not eliminate Jesus from his belief system, but many others who haven't spent decades in liturgical orthodoxy will. <br />So do all these transformations of the old Christian ideas mean there is no God? Not at all. I agree generally with Spong in his conclusions, but he is tied to his ecclesiastical past in a way that I am not. While I think churches have contributed to society by bringing people together and creating social bonds, and often doing good works, I cannot see how they can go on when the basic reason for their existence -- their theology, including Jesus -- can no longer be believed. Spong concludes his book by saying \\"I expect to enter even more deeply into the reality of the God in whom I have lived and moved and had my being.\\" Amen to that, but it does not require a church.	2003-10-05
US	50854525	RR517J7VKK8FJ	0440225299	326768810	Numbered Account	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A TALE OF ....... - WRIT BIG!	Reich gives us an eye-opening look into the world of those notorious numbered accounts that very wealthy people use to shelter their money. How many of those super rich acquired their assets in less-than-legal enterprises? In this exciting story, a major depositor turns out to have a strangle-hold on the top officers of a Swiss Bank, who have always known that this man, known only by his number to to the lower-ranking bank employees, is a major heroin dealer using the bank to launder his money. They just don't care, and the laws of Switzerland protect the secrecy of bank data.<br />I enjoyed the European setting of the story, with most of the action taking place in Zurich, a city with both luxurious headquarters of major financial institutions and squalid sections inhabited by pathetic junkies. The action also takes us to Beirut and gives us a look at the book's villain, who thinks nothing of killing people he finds inconvenient, or who present an obstacle to his sick plans. The book is possibly unfair to Islam, in painting this man as sometimes pious, but always deadly. His twisted plans include using his money to launch an attack on Israel (shades of bin Laden!).<br />The characters are mostly believable, although I found Nick a bit too macho for my taste. He understandably wants justice for the murder of his father, but his actions at times are vicious. The plot sometimes seemed overly involved, and the motivation for Nick to leave a comfortable and planned-out life in New York for Zurich seemed at times weak, as did certain elements of the ending. The story features many flashbacks, which the author handles quite well, and which do help us see why Nick reacts as he does. We're given a panoramic picture of this young man's life.<br />The plot moves along, with new intrigues and double-dealings piled on one another, but the strongest reason to read this book is if you are curious about Swiss banking, as I was. The picture presented here of Swiss values is not very flattering. I can't be sure that Swiss bankers are quite as morally bankrupt as presented here, but I did catch the flavor of a country where banking is the main business and the government naturally wants to protect an important industry that provides its people with good jobs. At one point in the novel, a character laments that the Swiss now have competition in \\"private banking\\" from places like the Caymon Islands. It seems the crooks have choices, and the Swiss will have to keep offering special services (like secret numbered accounts) to keep those deposits coming. We can only hope reality is not quite this bad.flattering. I can't be sure that Swiss bankers are quite as morally bankrupt as presented here, but I did catch the flavor of a country where banking is the main business and the government naturally wants to protect an important industry that provides its people with good jobs. At one point in the novel, a character laments that the Swiss now have competition in \\"private banking\\" from places like the Caymon Islands. It seems the crooks have choices, and the Swiss will have to keep offering special services (like secret numbered accounts) to keep those deposits coming. We can only hope reality is not quite this bad.	2003-09-14
US	50854525	R1ZJ4FPSKOL1XY	0395755158	999359974	Creating Health: How to Wake Up the Body's Intelligence	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A REFRESHINGLY POSITIVE VIEW OF HEALTH	This little book is full of helpful insights for anyone wondering how to restore or preserve good health. Instead of dwelling on sickness, Chopra shows us how our health is really in our own hands. It is wonderfully refreshing to find a doctor who is not in the business of pushing pills for every ill and ache. Instead of giving us the five-minute look-over and writing a prescription, Dr. Chopra shows us the way to influence our body so it can cure itself. He tell us what we already know, but always wanted to hear from a doctor: That all drugs have side effects and most are expensive. Don't we all want an alternative?<br />Chopra provides beginning chapters on common illnesses and at times gives typical doctor instructions on what to eat and what to avoid (\\"don't drink alcohol, even in moderation\\"). But he moves beyond that, looking inside the sick person and inviting us to look inside ourselves. Our emotions and attitudes affect our bodies, and if we learn to control emotions we can improve our health. Chopra recommends meditation as a means of marshalling our inner resources.<br />While there must be some limit to this approach to health, there nevertheless is much evidence for its effectiveness. I particularly enjoyed his case histories and anecdotes. In  one case, he admits lying to a patient. She had cancer, but he told her he removed gall stones. She believed him and the cancer went away! He attributes her recovery to her belief that she was well, a manifestation of the placebo effect that no one can explain, other than \\"mind over matter.\\" Doctors dismiss diseases that go away by themselves by saying the patient is \\"in remission.\\" But that is not an explanation. Chopra looks at these spontaneous healings as the body's ability to heal itself through the power inside the person, the body's natural intelligence. Intelligence, says Dr. Chopra, is in everything that's alive. I think of Chopra's nature intelligence when I see my cat make a graceful leap from porch to pillar. His body is using its built-in intelligence to make a perfect landing! Perhaps if we can become aware that our bodies use built-in intelligence, we can, as Dr. Chopra suggests,  create health.pillar. His body is using its built-in intelligence to make a perfect landing! Perhaps if we can become aware that our bodies use built-in intelligence, we can, as Dr. Chopra suggests,  create health.	2003-09-12
US	50854525	R3PJO86VJW7YQV	1879181509	568792361	The Giza Power Plant : Technologies of Ancient Egypt	Books	5	173	185	N	Y	Finally, Some Answers to the Puzzle of Giza	Chris Dunn has given us a powerful new vision of the Great Pyramid at Giza, by using his technical expertise to \\"reverse engineer\\" the pyramid. What he finds is a magnificent machine that produced power using the earth itself as the source and incorporating the science of vibration and sound. Dunn works backwards from the artifacts produced by the ancient Egyptians, showing that only sophisticated machine tools could have produced the hollowed out diorite bowls and other works created by this civilization.<br /><br />He fashions his theory on the evidence found inside the Great Pyramid, explaining the purpose of all the passages and \\"rooms\\" inside. He draws on some of the observations of researchers who went before him, who have noted the unusual acoustic characteristics inside the pyramid. He uses the detailed notes left to us by W. Flinders Petrie more than a century ago. Petrie made extensive measurements and examinations of the pyramid long before the \\"tomb\\" theory became gospel. Dunn points out that not a single original burial has been found in any Egyptian pyramid! There is actually no credible evidence that pyramids were built to be tombs.<br /><br />Another compelling argument against the tomb idea is the tremendous amount of resources that went into building the Great Pyramid. Would a civilization devote such resources to something that returned nothing? Dunn argues that a power plant would provide a large return, potentially of benefit to the whole society, and with the incredible precision and durability of the pyramid, it would provide power for a long, long time. At least, until a disaster struck... Dunn sees evidence that a destructive force did strike the King's Chamber, pushing the walls back. Was it an accident inside the power plant?<br /><br />I found especially compelling Dunn's discussion of the supposed fact that the Egyptians did not use the wheel. Perhaps they did not need it for the uses we employed it for, because they had hovercraft (much better suited to going over sand), for instance. We must also remember that the Nile River was the primary \\"road\\" in their country. Dunn says that Germany under the Nazis developed technology along different lines from the US after only 12 years of isolation. It would hardly be strange if the Egyptian civilization, separated from us by thousands of years, might have developed along different technological lines from us.<br /><br />I was also excited to see Dunn discuss the Coral Castle in Florida, produced by Ed Leedskalnin back in the 1920s. Somehow, one small frail man was able to move huge blocks of rock by himself. Leedskalnin claimed to have discovered how the Egyptians moved the huge blocks that made up the pyramids but he died without revealing the secret. Dunn theorizes that it involves magnetism and would mean discarding some of the current scientific beliefs about gravity.<br /><br />Dunn treads gingerly around the Edgar Cayce material, almost apologizing for including it, but I am glad he did. Many of us who seek the truth about our own past find Cayce's words compelling, with their great internal consistency. What Cayce said about the Atlanteans destroying themselves through the misuse of a powerful energy source fits with Dunn's findings about the ancients knowing how to produce electrical power. Maybe they had a more efficient and potentially destructive power than even our own civilization has discovered.<br /><br />One criticism of Dunn's ideas is that there is little representation in Egyptian art of the uses of this power. There is the famous \\"light bulb\\" picture in the Temple of Dendera which seems to show Crookes tubes in use, complete with power cables. There are also in other places depictions of what could be flying machines, so the evidence of advanced technology is not completely absent in Egyptian art, but there are also pictures of people plowing fields using animals and other seemingly primitive ways of working. But as Dunn rightly points out, different societies would use a power source for different purposes. Because they didn't have toaster ovens and cars doesn't prove they had no source of electrical power. Uses of electricity would depend on the economic system of Egyptian society. Was there a profit motive to produce consumer products that use electrical power, as in our society? Who owned the power created in the pyramid and how was electrical power distributed? Dunn has no answer to these questions, although he offers speculations.<br /><br />Another weakness in Dunn's presentation is that he doesn't deal with specific timeframes for the development of Egyptian technology. The Egyptian civilization lasted for thousands of years which Egyptologists divide into three periods. Dunn vaguely refers to the pyramid builders as \\"ancient Egyptians\\" but does not discuss any specific years or relate the accomplishment to any other known historical event. He does not attempt to show how the technology fits into a culture. But of course, Dunn is not claiming to be a historian or archeologist. It would be good if the people who care about this could each bring their expertise to bear on solving the enigmas inherent in the Great Pyramid. Chris Dunn certainly has some of the expertise needed... but not all.<br /><br />Dunn discusses the inventions of Nikola Tesla who believed electrical power could be delivered without wires, which may be how the Egyptians delivered it. Dunn says wireless power was never pursued because there was not an easy way to meter it -- how would those who controlled it make money? Was the profit motive part of Egyptian society, or would power have been made freely available, or would it only be for use of the ruling class? The need for a return on investment is a primary driver of technology in our present society (and may keep many potentially useful and even life-saving technologies from ever being developed), but what drove technological development in ancient civilizations? We just don't know.<br /><br />Dunn does not discuss the purpose of the other two pyramids or the other buildings on the Giza plateau. His theory is not complete without discovering the history and purpose of everything built around the Great Pyramid. Could its use as a power plant involve even more ancient Atlantean technology that was later incorporated with other more ceremonial uses? When was knowledge of its true purpose lost?<br /><br />I hope Chris Dunn will continue his inquiries and that other researchers will carefully consider what he has presented in this wonderful book. Thanks, Chris! You've given us a lot to think about!erent purposes. Because they didn't have toaster ovens and cars doesn't prove they had no source of electrical power. Uses of electricity would depend on the economic system of Egyptian society. Was there a profit motive to produce consumer products that use electrical power, as in our society? Who owned the power created in the pyramid and how was electrical power distributed? Dunn has no answer to these questions, although he offers speculations.  Another weakness in Dunn's presentation is that he doesn't deal with specific timeframes for the development of Egyptian technology. The Egyptian civilization lasted for thousands of years which Egyptologists divide into three periods. Dunn vaguely refers to the pyramid builders as \\"ancient Egyptians\\" but does not discuss any specific years or relate the accomplishment to any other known historical event. He does not attempt to show how the technology fits into a culture. But of course, Dunn is not claiming to be a historian or archeologist. It would be good if the people who care about this could each bring their expertise to bear on solving the enigmas inherent in the Great Pyramid. Chris Dunn certainly has some of the expertise needed... but not all.  Dunn discusses the inventions of Nikola Tesla who believed electrical power could be delivered without wires, which may be how the Egyptians delivered it. Dunn says wireless power was never pursued because there was not an easy way to meter it -- how would those who controlled it make money? Was the profit motive part of Egyptian society, or would power have been made freely available, or would it only be for use of the ruling class? The need for a return on investment is a primary driver of technology in our present society (and may keep many potentially useful and even life-saving technologies from ever being developed), but what drove technological development in ancient civilizations? We just don't know.  Dunn does not discuss the purpose of the other two pyramids orthe other buildings on the Giza plateau. His theory is not complete without discovering the history and purpose of everything built around the Great Pyramid. Could its use as a power plant involve even more ancient Atlantean technology that was later incorporated with other more ceremonial uses? When was knowledge of its true purpose lost?  I hope Chris Dunn will continue his inquiries and that other researchers will carefully consider what he has presented in this wonderful book. Thanks, Chris! You've given us a lot to think about!	2003-08-18
US	50854525	R3RK8L2FS40959	0767900952	755474718	The Heart's Code: Tapping the Wisdom and Power of Our Heart Energy	Books	2	24	51	N	N	INTERESTING, BUT FALLS SHORT	This book covers much material that is not new, but which is interpreted in a new way. Other authors have written about forms of intelligence and learning that don't seem to depend on the brain or intellect. Larry Dossey's concept of non-local consciousness, and Rupert Sheldrake's \\"morphic fields\\" arise from the same anecdotal evidence that Pearsall presents in this book. The difference is that Pearsall attributes this unexplained knowledge source to the heart, the most powerful organ in our bodies. Pearsall believes he has found evidence that the heart (as well as other cells in our bodies) retains memories about us and possibly about other people with whom we are close (and maybe holds ancestral memories as well).<br />Pearsall uses anecdotes from heart transplant patients, many of which seem to indicate that the recipient takes on some of the characteristics of the donor, and sometimes even knows things about the donor. These stories are compelling, but they do not add up to proof that the heart has memory. In my mind, they DO add up to evidence of the connectedness of life and the existence of psychic connections between people. What better way to create a connection than to transplant living tissue from one person into another? To anyone who believes there are forms of knowing that do not arise in the brain, Pearsall's stories are hardly unexpected. He cites many sources and quotes other authors in his quest to make his case, but other explanations make as much or more sense than Pearsall's.<br />Organ transplants themselves are controversial. I think it possible that organ transplants could impede the spirit of the donor from moving on to the next dimension, instead remaining earth-bound because part of his/her body still lives. Pearsall has raised the question of just what is transferred (besides the organ) from donor to recipient. The heart is obviously an important part of us and is a metaphor for love, so it stands to reason that whatever essence of the donor is in the heart would have some effect on the recipient, and the recipient may have some effect on the spirit of the donor.<br />The famous Dr. DeBakey says the heart is \\"just a pump\\" and perhaps he is mistaken. But does the heart possess \\"memory\\" or does its energy still contain part of the spirit of the donor, or does the donor reach out from \\"the other side\\" and communicate to the recipient? I have no answer, but I'm not inclined to accept Pearsall's arguments.<br />The book also becomes tedious with repetitious points. It seems like the major ideas could be stated in far fewer words. The author also uses his own experiences as a cancer patient in forming his theory. His own story is interesting in itself, but does not supply any evidence for a \\"heart's code.\\" In the end, we have highly subjective ideas based on anecdotes that can be explained by a number of other theories (which the author is fair enough to summarize in this book).<br />Personally, I do not support organ transplants because of the grossly unfair so-called health care system in the US. Only people with a lot of money or fabulous health insurance go on lists to get a transplant. Once they get the new organ, they must take very expensive drugs every month for the rest of their lives. If they miss taking their drugs for even a month, their body will reject the transplant and they will die. I would not want to live with that pressure, knowing any month I was unable to come up with a large sum of money for drugs, I would die (and just try getting health insurance if you've had an organ transplant!!). People may see transplants as a life-saving technique, but they are also a big money-making industry driven by highly-paid specialists and unwarranted drug company profits. Only the rich and the lucky benefit, and there will never be enough donated hearts for all the potential recipients.nor is in the heart would have some effect on the recipient, and the recipient may have some effect on the spirit of the donor. <br />The famous Dr. DeBakey says the heart is \\"just a pump\\" and perhaps he is mistaken. But does the heart possess \\"memory\\" or does its energy still contain part of the spirit of the donor, or does the donor reach out from \\"the other side\\" and communicate to the recipient? I have no answer, but I'm not inclined to accept Pearsall's arguments.<br />The book also becomes tedious with repetitious points. It seems like the major ideas could be stated in far fewer words. The author also uses his own experiences as a cancer patient in forming his theory. His own story is interesting in itself, but does not supply any evidence for a \\"heart's code.\\" In the end, we have highly subjective ideas based on anecdotes that can be explained by a number of other theories (which the author is fair enough to summarize in this book).<br />Personally, I do not support organ transplants because of the grossly unfair so-called health care system in the US. Only people with a lot of money or fabulous health insurance go on lists to get a transplant. Once they get the new organ, they must take very expensive drugs every month for the rest of their lives. If they miss taking their drugs for even a month, their body will reject the transplant and they will die. I would not want to live with that pressure, knowing any month I was unable to come up with a large sum of money for drugs, I would die (and just try getting health insurance if you've had an organ transplant!!). People may see transplants as a life-saving technique, but they are also a big money-making industry driven by highly-paid specialists and unwarranted drug company profits. Only the rich and the lucky benefit, and there will never be enough donated hearts for all the potential recipients.	2003-08-14
US	50854525	R17DSAY91ME17X	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A WONDERFUL ROMP THRU TERROR AND HISTORY	This story pulls you in, especially if you love exotic settings and occult intrigue, as I do. The story's hero thinks that he, as a Harvard professor, knows all about the mysterious Illuminati, and he believes they are extinct. But he learns he may be mistaken when a distinguished scientist and priest at CERN turns up dead with the word \\"Illuminati\\" branded on his chest. But this is no ordinary brand; it is an \\"ambigram\\" -- a word scripted to look the same upside down as right side up. This is the first of six amazing ambigrams we see illustrated in this book. The Illuminati, it seems, are out to get revenge against the Vatican for its past sins, which are many. The illusive Illuminati have hired a \\"hassassin\\" (a more ancient form of \\"assassin\\") to kill the four cardinals who are candidates to replace the pope, who has recently died.<br />The story takes Robert Langdon, the Harvard professor, and Vittoria Vetra, the sexy (adopted) daughter of the dead scientist-priest on an incredible day-long adventure in a mostly futile attempt to stop the murders, along with a deadly jar of anti-matter hidden somewhere in the labyrinth of Vatican City. The anti-matter is counting down to midnight when it will work the final revenge on the church: the complete destruction of the Vatican complex with its priceless treasures.<br />What makes the book special is the historic clues that Langdon pursues, as he tries to find the markers left by the Illuminati at the time of Michelangelo and Bernini, whose work is resplendent in the numerous churches and monuments of Rome and Vatican City. I loved the details woven into the story, especially the descriptions of secret places within the Vatican. The characters in this story are Vatican Swiss Guards, Cardinals of the Church, the camerlengo who is left in charge at the pope's death, and the bitter, wheelchair-bound  Director of CERN in Geneva. I can't help but wonder how much of the descriptions and characterizations (certainly not the actual characters) are real.<br />Emotions build as the characters realize the unfolding events transcend their own situation and I actually found myself crying at one point in the book. But I experienced a kind of let-down near the end. The final twist of the plot was one I did not anticipate and it left me without the kind of wrap-up that I had expected. I thought everything would end tidy and sure, with the good guys and bad guys clearly identified. Maybe the final ambiguity was by design; maybe the author wanted us to think about who was more correct: the Illuminati point of view that the Church had committed too many atrocities and outlived its usefulness, or the Church's point of view that science can never give us all the answers.<br />A really great book delivers not only adventure and thrills, but also provocative ideas. This book seesaws between the opposites that are implied by its title. We move from scene to scene, character to character in a dance of intrigue. Dan Brown is one helluva story-teller and this book left me always wanting to know what was on the next page.ual characters) are real.<br />Emotions build as the characters realize the unfolding events transcend their own situation and I actually found myself crying at one point in the book. But I experienced a kind of let-down near the end. The final twist of the plot was one I did not anticipate and it left me without the kind of wrap-up that I had expected. I thought everything would end tidy and sure, with the good guys and bad guys clearly identified. Maybe the final ambiguity was by design; maybe the author wanted us to think about who was more correct: the Illuminati point of view that the Church had committed too many atrocities and outlived its usefulness, or the Church's point of view that science can never give us all the answers. <br />A really great book delivers not only adventure and thrills, but also provocative ideas. This book seesaws between the opposites that are implied by its title. We move from scene to scene, character to character in a dance of intrigue. Dan Brown is one helluva story-teller and this book left me always wanting to know what was on the next page.	2003-07-18
US	50854525	R9F8B067NFCT2	089281750X	688577859	The Sirius Mystery: New Scientific Evidence of Alien Contact 5,000 Years Ago	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Interesting if Trueor True if Interesting?	This updated version of Temple's book begins with a statement that his original theory has been vindicated by newly discovered facts about the Sirius star system showing it be a three-star system. He goes on to a tirade against his detractors, including people from NASA, and the intriguing information that the CIA kept tabs on him after he first published his theories about long-ago alien contact with our planet. The Sirius Mystery is based on studies of the Dogon, an African tribe that seems to have detailed knowledge of the Sirius star system, including astronomical information only recently discovered. The author builds this into a story about amphibious visitors from a watery planet orbiting Sirius. He finds evidence in ancient stories from Sumer and Egypt, recounting the legend of Oannes, who came from the sea and seemed to be half fish.<br />What I find interesting about Temple's material is how much of it is familiar from other books of this genre (which I enjoy reading), but how he manages to put a completely different spin on it. Was Oannes actually half fish, or did his space ship land in water and the emerging being reminded those who saw him of a \\"fish-man\\" (as other writers have suggested)? Temple makes no mention of Zecariah Sitchen who writes of many of the same ancient events from Sumerian history. To Sitchen, the Annunaki were the astronauts from the planet Nibiru (in our own solar system), but in Temple's book they become anonymous Sirian gods who are mainly there so the number 50 can be worked into the story. This number has significance for the Sirius star system and ancient legends, he says, incorporated this number to emphasize its significance.<br />In much the same way, Graham Hancock (in Fingerprints of the Gods) shows how ancient stories worked in the numbers that signify the precession, the 25,000 year cycle of the zodiak around the horizon. Another book I've read discussed the use of the magic number 7 (7 wonders of the world, 7 deadly sins, etc.). It seems like a good working theory that ancient stories do incorporate numbers that are important and need to be remembered, but in this case, it's a stretch to associate the number 50 used in ancient legends with the movements of distant stars, the whole thing held together by the beliefs of an obscure African tribe.<br />Temple provides some interesting material on the ancient oracle centers, the best known being the Oracle of Delphi, and the associated omphalos stones. while this made fascinating reading, I found his logic sometimes hard to follow and kept waiting for a better connection between these means of ancient communication and the knowledge of the Dogon. The book wanders around a lot and is full of opinionated rants that decrease its credibility.<br />But the heart of the matter is really whether it is true that the Dogon somehow acquired knowledge of Sirius and associated stars and whether the method of acquiring this knowledge was visitation from ancient astronauts. Many other writers have picked up on Temple's main theme and restate his thesis that the Dogon, an unsophisticated people, know all about Sirius. But the whole thing is based on the work of two anthropologists who gained the trust of informants among the Dogon and related tribes. They described the belief system that involved Sirius, and it is all rather curious. But I find it difficult to feel as positive as Temple does that what he has laid bare is evidence of visitation by intelligent amphibians from a distant planet. The picture section in the book is great, and the complete work by the two anthropologists (translated from French) is in an Appendix. If you can stand to wade through all the material in this book, you may be able to form an opinion. Or you may be just as confused as I am. It's interesting, but is it true?ins, etc.). It seems like a good working theory that ancient stories do incorporate numbers that are important and need to be remembered, but in this case, it's a stretch to associate the number 50 used in ancient legends with the movements of distant stars, the whole thing held together by the beliefs of an obscure African tribe.<br />Temple provides some interesting material on the ancient oracle centers, the best known being the Oracle of Delphi, and the associated omphalos stones. while this made fascinating reading, I found his logic sometimes hard to follow and kept waiting for a better connection between these means of ancient communication and the knowledge of the Dogon. The book wanders around a lot and is full of opinionated rants that decrease its credibility. <br />But the heart of the matter is really whether it is true that the Dogon somehow acquired knowledge of Sirius and associated stars and whether the method of acquiring this knowledge was visitation from ancient astronauts. Many other writers have picked up on Temple's main theme and restate his thesis that the Dogon, an unsophisticated people, know all about Sirius. But the whole thing is based on the work of two anthropologists who gained the trust of informants among the Dogon and related tribes. They described the belief system that involved Sirius, and it is all rather curious. But I find it difficult to feel as positive as Temple does that what he has laid bare is evidence of visitation by intelligent amphibians from a distant planet. The picture section in the book is great, and the complete work by the two anthropologists (translated from French) is in an Appendix. If you can stand to wade through all the material in this book, you may be able to form an opinion. Or you may be just as confused as I am. It's interesting, but is it true?	2003-07-11
US	50854525	ROXP3HA5V2MFQ	0684848910	114374014	The Templar Revelation: Secret Guardians of the True Identity of Christ	Books	3	505	545	N	N	worth reading, but ultimately doesn't deliver the goods	This book is exciting because it is a real follow-up to the theories presented in Holy Blood, Holy Grail (by Baigent, Lincoln and Leigh), the all-time best of the \\"alternate history\\" books. It was the earlier book that caused many Christians to shed their naivete about the origins of their religion and to question whether Jesus had, in fact, died on the cross. Since that book, other writers have joined the fray and put forward theories of Jesus surviving the crucifixion. Like the Holy Blood, Holy Grail authors, Picknett and Prince say Jesus was married to Mary Magdalene, but unlike the previous work, they do not say the two went together to the south of France. They concentrate instead on Magdalene and the many legends of her presence in  France. They too allude to an explosive \\"secret\\" preserved by that shadowy organization known as the Priory of Sion.<br />In this ambitious and controversial work we find much more on the legends of France concerning Mary Magdalene and her possible connection to Jesus and the Christian Church. The authors also delve into the mystery of Rennes le Chateau, the story which originally inspired Baigent, Lincoln and Leigh to do the investigation which led to their theory of a Jesus who was married and whose descendants founded the Merovingian dynasty. Since that time, other books have also questioned the standard story of Christian beginnings, and have even revived the idea that historical Jesus did not exist.<br />I recently visited a wonderful exhibit on the Dead Sea Scrolls that came to the Grand Rapids (Michigan) public museum which featured actual pieces of the scrolls along with many representations of the Essene community at Qumran, thought to be the origin of the scrolls. The Dead Sea Scrolls are important because they they shed light on the religious and political ideas of the time just prior to Jesus' public life. Some of the material from the scrolls seems \\"Christian\\" but actually predates the Jesus movement. This, like the material in The Templar Revelation, seems to show that the central ideas of Christianity were not new. Other authors have shown that the \\"suffering savior,\\" the \\"dying and resurrected god\\" and \\"eating the divine flesh and blood\\" themes were present in many pagan religions of the era.<br />Picknett and Prince take the idea further and show that the roots of Christianity could be, not in Judaism, but rather in the Egyptian religion, especially the cult of Isis and Osiris. For instance, Osiris was killed on Friday and resurrected three days later by the power of his wife Isis, who then conceives their son, Horus. Even more parallels with Christianity can be found in the basic beliefs of the Isis religion, which emphasized repentance and confession. It was not Jesus who originally brought these ideas (both Egyptian and Gnostic) to the Jews, but another character who figures prominently in occult circles, John the Baptist. John is seen by the authors as a rival of Jesus who founded a substantial movement that continued to exist and even exists today. His followers have never believed Jesus was devine.<br />The most exciting part of this book is the material the authors collected in their travels though France. They found numerous churches dedicated to Mary Magdalene, John the Baptist and the mysterious Black Madonna. The devotion to the Magdalene is especially interesting, since the legends of her presence in this area are so common and there are numerous claims by local townspeople to have her remains or some relic of her. The shrines to Mary Magdalene are frequently at sites formerly associated with Isis. However, after laboriously providing many examples of these themes, the authors never quite pull it all together. They show what seems to be a connection with the Hermetic tradition embodied in the Knights Templar and the Freemasons, but fail to produce any \\"smoking gun.\\" What was the secret knowledge of these organizations that caused them to hold John the Baptist andthe Magdalene in higher regard than Jesus? It was, they say, the knowledge of the Female principle once so important to ancient religions. They devote a whole chapter to the history of \\"sacred sex\\" and show how it was practiced in Egypt and persisted through the undergound stream kept alive by organizations like the Templars and Masons. They tell us nothing about the political agenda of these organizations, or the reason for the continued secrecy (after all, there is no more Inquisition).<br />While I find much of the material illuminating, the book is ultimately disappointing. They tell us that Jesus was a rival of John; he was a practitioner of magic and/or the Egyptian religion. His message was altered by the male-dominated Church which covered up the truth about the important role of Magdalene. The authors constantly point out how ignorant most Christians are about the origins of their own religion.  Since Christianity emphasizes \\"faith\\" (belief with no proof), why should the existence of proof that Jesus survived the crucifixion and was married and had children make any difference? It's interesting how these books, no matter how persuasive, seem to change nothing.<br />I was hoping to finally learn the agenda of the Priory of Sion and the secret of Rennes le Chateau. I want to know what really happened to Jesus. The books waltzes tantalizingly around all these topics, but never delivers the goods. It does not reveal any Great Truth. But of course, that was always too much to ask.d the Magdalene in higher regard than Jesus? It was, they say, the knowledge of the Female principle once so important to ancient religions. They devote a whole chapter to the history of \\"sacred sex\\" and show how it was practiced in Egypt and persisted through the undergound stream kept alive by organizations like the Templars and Masons. They tell us nothing about the political agenda of these organizations, or the reason for the continued secrecy (after all, there is no more Inquisition).<br />While I find much of the material illuminating, the book is ultimately disappointing. They tell us that Jesus was a rival of John; he was a practitioner of magic and/or the Egyptian religion. His message was altered by the male-dominated Church which covered up the truth about the important role of Magdalene. The authors constantly point out how ignorant most Christians are about the origins of their own religion.  Since Christianity emphasizes \\"faith\\" (belief with no proof), why should the existence of proof that Jesus survived the crucifixion and was married and had children make any difference? It's interesting how these books, no matter how persuasive, seem to change nothing.<br />I was hoping to finally learn the agenda of the Priory of Sion and the secret of Rennes le Chateau. I want to know what really happened to Jesus. The books waltzes tantalizingly around all these topics, but never delivers the goods. It does not reveal any Great Truth. But of course, that was always too much to ask.	2003-07-08
US	50854525	R2YLVFFKV7O111	0195038630	345581260	Battle Cry of Freedom: The Civil War Era	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Why did the Civil War Happen?	Many books describe the battles and events of the Civil War. Other books are about the well-known people who played roles in this bloody and terrible war. But Battle Cry of Freedom helps you understand the reasons for the war, the pressures that led up to it. Like the art of Jacob Lawrence, which captures the horror of this period in American history, McPherson gives us a picture of the conflicting beliefs and values of the mid-ninteenth century that led a country to nearly split apart.<br />What an irony that the Yankees thought the war would be over soon! What a tragedy that Lincoln did not live to implement a more gentle reunion of North and South! In the pages of this book you feel the drama of those years and gain a better understanding of the flow of events that brought us to today. Was the Civil War about slavery? Was it about union? Was it about urban vs. rural? The answer is complex, and nothing makes it more understandable than this detailed, well-written look into those turbulent times.	2003-05-08
US	50854525	R8UP7I8L72I8V	1585747238	527378413	My Faraway Home: An American Family's WWII Tale of Adventure and Survival in the Jungles of the Philippines	Books	4	9	9	N	N	WW II -- UP CLOSE AND PERSONAL	Ms Maynard reaches a long way back into her memory to bring us this absorbing tale of a family forced to hide in the jungle on Mindanao when World War II broke out. The Japanese took over the Philippines, leaving nine-year old Mary McKay, her parents and a brother away at boarding school, stranded. With the American Pacific fleet sunk at Pearl Harbor, General McArthurs advice that Americans were in no danger turned out to be very wrong. McArthur was a stockholder in Mindanao Mother Lode, a mining operation where the authors father worked. From a comfortable existence with servants to cook their meals and wash their clothes, this family had to flee to another inactive mining camp well into the interior of the island, where they were further from the Japanese soldiers now swarming over the coastal areas.<br />Other families in the same situation lived with them at Gomoco, a gold mining camp that consisted of a few rickety buildings with a little stream flowing by. That stream became a river as it flowed to the coast, but boats could not navigate through the shallow water near the camp. Marys father was in charge of the collection of people who came and went over a two year period, and he presided over numerous arguments, often over whether to use more of the canned food or (as Mr. McKay thought) to preserve it for the even tougher times that might come.<br />In the end, the family is rescued by an American submarine that took them aboard to share the tight quarters with sailors, dodging Japanese ships as they made their way to Darwin, Australia. Marys brother Bob spent the years in internment camps and was rescued from a prison in Manila when the Americans finally came and took back the Philippines. General McArthur kept his promise to come back.<br />The book includes snatches of Marys mothers diary which she kept during the years of hiding. I suspect this was the main source of information from so long ago, although surely a girl who lived through so much peril and fear would not forget these events. But research and that diary must have supplied many of the details. Mary gives us interesting glimpses into the complicated relationship of her parents -- a father who could not understand his wifes need for comfort and reassurance, and a mother who begged her Filipino suppliers to find lipstick, believing that putting on a good face could hide her fears. The author also is willing to deal with the lopsided relationship between the Americans and the hard-working and loyal Filipinos, who did most of the work of keeping the foreigners fed and safe. That did not keep the Americans from feeling superior or making fun of the pigeon English spoken by the natives. It took many more years of living for the author to see how insensitive and ungrateful were these actions.<br />I found the story pulled me in as I read, and I wanted to find out what new problems would appear and to learn how this family would finally found their way back home, whatever home had come to mean to them. Once Mindanao fell they had to decide whether to give themselves up (as the Japanese demanded of all Americans) or to continue to try to evade notice. Eventually enough servicemen and civilians who did not surrender themselves were able to put together an organized guerilla action to provide mutual support, harass the Japanese and keep in contact with American military forces fighting the war. That led to the submarine rescue and the end of the book, an interesting story from a time soon to be relegated to history books as memories fade completely and the story tellers are with us no more. This book is a rare opportunity to see the war from a new perspective, through the eyes of a child who experienced the disruption and terror of war up close and personal.l and fear would not forget these events. But research and that diary must have supplied many of the details. Mary gives us interesting glimpses into the complicated relationship of her parents -- a father who could not understand his wifes need for comfort and reassurance, and a mother who begged her Filipino suppliers to find lipstick, believing that putting on a good face could hide her fears. The author also is willing to deal with the lopsided relationship between the Americans and the hard-working and loyal Filipinos, who did most of the work of keeping the foreigners fed and safe. That did not keep the Americans from feeling superior or making fun of the pigeon English spoken by the natives. It took many more years of living for the author to see how insensitive and ungrateful were these actions.<br />I found the story pulled me in as I read, and I wanted to find out what new problems would appear and to learn how this family would finally found their way back home, whatever home had come to mean to them. Once Mindanao fell they had to decide whether to give themselves up (as the Japanese demanded of all Americans) or to continue to try to evade notice. Eventually enough servicemen and civilians who did not surrender themselves were able to put together an organized guerilla action to provide mutual support, harass the Japanese and keep in contact with American military forces fighting the war. That led to the submarine rescue and the end of the book, an interesting story from a time soon to be relegated to history books as memories fade completely and the story tellers are with us no more. This book is a rare opportunity to see the war from a new perspective, through the eyes of a child who experienced the disruption and terror of war up close and personal.	2003-04-18
US	50854525	RPR1XLZ0XFNP4	0553565915	210436825	Embraced by the Light: The Most Profound and Complete Near-Death Experience Ever	Books	2	14	18	N	N	Not Really Believable	Eadie's report of the afterlife is much more simple-minded than other books in this genre. It seemed strange that she waited so many years to write about her experience, and I wonder if her memory has embellished the particulars. First of all, there is no proof Eadie actually \\"died\\" after her operation, as she describes no life-reviving efforts that would have been happening if she had flat-lined (didn't this hospital have any nurses watching the monitors?) Next, sorry, but I don't believe Eadie met Jesus. If indeed her spirit slipped from her body, she may have met a spirit, but her simplistic notion that this was Jesus goes along with other shaky assumptions she makes in these pages. She says some people are purposely given miserable lives so others can learn by showing them compassion. Isn't this a bit circular? We need miserable people in the world so happy people have someone to show compassion for. What then is the purpose of happy people? So we have someone to rescue miserable people?<br />Eadie's view of the afterlife is full of dualism. Good angels fight evil spirits. We are all beset by evil but have only to trust our guardian angels to protect us. Eadie saw nasty evil spirits as well as good ones. The afterlife is apparently a battlefield. I found her whole vision inconsistent and unbelievable.<br />The only relief from the string of ridiculous afterlife scenarios was the last part, where Eadie takes in an unwanted child, then later rescues her from abusive relatives. Yes, I found that touching and I applaud her actions in seeing her spiritual connection to this child. This may be a woman with good intentions but a poor memory of what actually happened that night in the hospital. I cannot bring myself to be a total cynic about Eadie's vision, but I think most of it is just not so.	2002-10-13
US	50854525	R22NQYXSNW7SA4	0241100100	766630387	In His Image: Cloning of a Man	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Has it Been Done? Or is This Book a Hoax?	The book was a sensation back in 1978, but most who read it did not believe it. At the time of its publication, the US Senate held hearings on whether human cloning should be banned. A scientist mentioned in the book sued the publisher and the end result of the lawsuit was an apology from the publisher, J. B. Lippincott, and a court ruling that the book was a hoax.<br />But was it? The author, David Rorvik, has always maintained that the story he told was the truth. He included a great deal of technical descriptions of the techniques used to clone the mysterious \\"Max\\" as if he wanted future readers to know exactly how he claimed it was done. That can be compared to the techniques used today to clone mammals. Rorvik says in his Afterward to the book that he does not expect his story to be accepted, since he can offer no proof. He says he saw the baby, and it was a normal healthy baby. He was never shown the genetic proof that the baby was actually a clone, but he says that Max told him he had seen the verification that the baby was in fact his genetic duplicate.<br />I did an internet search on Rorvik and found many references to this book, and no consensus on whether it was fact or fiction. There are a number of references to it as fiction or a hoax, but in an interview with Omni magazine in 1997, Rorvik says the story is true and that he has continued to be contacted by people interested in cloning. However, he has nothing to say about Max, whether he has been in touch with him or seen the child, who would be a young man in his twenties now.<br />Why do people get so upset about human cloning? Why is it often described as \\"morally repugnant?\\" At the time of Rorvik's book, in vitro fertilization was still new and considered repugnant too. Rorvik describes how a friend of his, Dr. Landrum B. Shettles, was fired from his position at Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital for creating a test-tube embryo for an infertile Florida woman. His superior destroyed the embryos and tried to discredit Dr. Shettles. That was the level of hysteria about a procedure now routinely done; there are probably thousands of people walking around who are the product of in vitro fertilization. They do not think of themselves as freaks because they are not.<br />Cloning is just one more way to make a baby, although it has little to recommend it. Isn't it better to use our new knowledge of our genetic make-up to eliminate defects and create better humans? It seems to me that the objections to cloning come down to a number of misunderstandings. People talk about cloning as a way to immortality, as if a clone of me is me. But that is not the case. The clone has the same genetic material, but is a separate person in the same way that identical twins are separate people. Someone who's been cloned, like Max, will die and his \\"immortality\\" is no more a reality than anyone who has children has a claim to immortality. We pass on our genes, but so what? We are each still responsible for our lives and how we live them. A clone would have his own life, his own soul, and be no less an individual than any of us. I find it interesting that in the experiments with multiple cloned cows, they were not even all physically the same. These were spotted cows and the spots had variations, attributed to the differences in the surrogate mothers and conditions of pregnancy. A clone, it turns out, is not necessarily an exact duplicate.<br />Human cloning will happen, if indeed it has not already happened. But it will not be popular, and the hysteria over it will eventually go away, as have the objections to in vitro fertilization. I would love to hear from anyone with more information about an existing human clone; see my longer review at my book review site, The Seeker Books.ied to discredit Dr. Shettles. That was the level of hysteria about a procedure now routinely done; there are probably thousands of people walking around who are the product of in vitro fertilization. They do not think of themselves as freaks because they are not.<br />Cloning is just one more way to make a baby, although it has little to recommend it. Isn't it better to use our new knowledge of our genetic make-up to eliminate defects and create better humans? It seems to me that the objections to cloning come down to a number of misunderstandings. People talk about cloning as a way to immortality, as if a clone of me is me. But that is not the case. The clone has the same genetic material, but is a separate person in the same way that identical twins are separate people. Someone who's been cloned, like Max, will die and his \\"immortality\\" is no more a reality than anyone who has children has a claim to immortality. We pass on our genes, but so what? We are each still responsible for our lives and how we live them. A clone would have his own life, his own soul, and be no less an individual than any of us. I find it interesting that in the experiments with multiple cloned cows, they were not even all physically the same. These were spotted cows and the spots had variations, attributed to the differences in the surrogate mothers and conditions of pregnancy. A clone, it turns out, is not necessarily an exact duplicate.<br />Human cloning will happen, if indeed it has not already happened. But it will not be popular, and the hysteria over it will eventually go away, as have the objections to in vitro fertilization. I would love to hear from anyone with more information about an existing human clone; see my longer review at my book review site, The Seeker Books.	2002-10-04
US	50854525	R1R5T4N5Y5L5NJ	0375420797	87266369	Flesh and Machines: How Robots Will Change Us	Books	3	8	14	N	N	Humans Are Machines, says Rodney Brooks	Flesh and Machines by Rodney A. Brooks<br /><br />Brooks has been working with robots most of his life, and his knowledge of the subject is impressive. He provides a look into his own work in the field as head of the Artificial Intelligence Lab at MIT and an officer of iRobot company. His insight into the problems of getting robots to walk like humans and see like humans are especially valuable. I learned that my eyes are badly designed and do not let me see the world as clearly as I had thought. Machines could certainly do better, but then they would not interact socially with humans in the correct way. It turns out that the ways our eyes follow people and actions are important in the way we perceive each other. For a robot to seem human, its eyes must make contact with humans and gaze at whatever is attracting human eyes at the moment.<br /><br />However, I was somewhat disappointed in this book because I was most interested in whether the author felt robots could become sentient. Are they a new life-form? Although Brooks clearly knows his stuff when it comes to building robots, he seems to have very shallow thoughts about the nature of being alive. Is acting alive the same as being alive? He tells us about Kismet, the human-like head that engages humans in conversations (although Kismet speaks only nonsense), understanding when to look at the human and when to talk and when to \\"listen.\\" Most of the robots Brooks has worked with are not very humanoid. Some are just tiny bug-like machines that ramble about a room and some, like Kismet, were built to prove out some aspect of making a humanoid robot. There are no robots in existence that can pass for a human.<br /><br />But Brooks seems to believe that much of the work involved in making a human-like robot is making it act human, regardless of the processing going on inside. This is an interesting concept, and makes sense because people will not respond to a machine that looks and acts like a machine, no matter how intelligent it is. In the classic Arthur C. Clarke 2001, the computer Hal (which Brooks says influenced him to go into his current career) could not match the emotions of humans. He was not \\"embodied\\" in the world as are humans. The way we see reality is influenced by the fact that we have bodies. We experience the world through our bodies. We are not computers. A computer is not human. But machine intelligence in a body that looks human would be \\"embodied\\" and could be made to experience the world the way we do. So, would it be \\"alive\\" or would it only appear to be `alive?\\"<br /><br />Brooks sidesteps these issues by declaring that humans are machines. He says the very worldview that postulates the possibility of artificially-created life comes with an assumption that the machine is all there is -- there is no soul or spiritual body. This is taking the machine as the model and then saying machines have no soul, humans are machines and therefore humans have no soul. This makes no sense to me. Brooks presents no proof that humans are machines and that the visible human body is all there is to any of us. For that matter, he presents no proof that a machine could not develop to the point where it could have a soul. Admittedly, we are in murky territory here, but it seems to me that humanoid robots could indeed become a life form and progress, like the delightful artificial entity in the movie Bicentennial Man. Would a spirit not want to inhabit such a creature?<br /><br />Brooks says we'll all have robots of some sort in our homes in the future and points out that humans are becoming cyborgs through the use of artificial limbs and organs. He does not agree with Hans Moravic's idea that we'll all be downloading our brains into robots, but he thinks we'll become part-robot through medical implants and there is the possibility of biological material being used in machines. So humans and robots will become more alike. An interesting vision of the future, but it feels somewhat flawed. Robots were a big deal for a while in the 1980s and such luminaries as Nolan Bushnell (who Brooks does not even mention) predicted we'd all have personal robots \\"by the year 2000.\\" He was wrong, and I think Brooks probably doesn't have it right either. But if you're into robots, the insights Brooks provides into what's happening in robotics make this book a worthwhile read.he 1980s and such luminaries as Nolan Bushnell (who Brooks does not even mention) predicted we'd all have personal robots \\"by the year 2000.\\" He was wrong, and I think Brooks probably doesn't have it right either. But if you're into robots, the insights Brooks provides into what's happening in robotics make this book a worthwhile read.	2002-04-21
US	50854525	RBIFF059JREEH	0887309895	315694439	Dealers of Lightning: Xerox PARC and the Dawn of the Computer Age	Books	4	4	4	N	N	AN ABSORBING PORTRAIT OF THE EARLY YEARS AT PARC	Computer history is full of great human drama and not a few myths, none so enduring as the story of Steve Jobs stealing technology from Xeroc PARC. In this absorbing book about the famous research institution, Michael Hiltzik puts his own interpretation on the legacy of PARC. He lets Xerox off the hook from the usual charges that they \\"blew it\\" when it came to exploiting the amazing inventions that came out of PARC.<br /><br />But Hiltzik's book does not focus on the Jobs incident, rather he gives us portraits of the men and women whose talents and vision produced computers that were way ahead of their time. The first group of engineers working for Jack Goldman and George Pake in a warehouse across from Stanford University actually built a computer that acted much like the DEC PDP-10 that they wanted to buy. They were told they couldn't have one because Xerox had purchased rival computer-maker SDS, whose products were decidedly inferior. So the talented team simply built themselves a clone. Later, they followed Alan Kay's dream of a small personal computer and created the Alto, a true personal computer that had a mouse and graphical interface and built-in ethernet-- in 1973! Kay also created the first object-oriented language, Smalltalk, which was perfect for writing user-friendly applications for the Alto.<br /><br />The number of innovations that came from PARC is truly astonishing, but none of them ever came to market. This book provides some of the answers as to why Xerox did not turn its research into profits. While pouring money into PARC, they were also having problems with their main business, which was leased copiers. The Japanese were making smaller cheaper copiers that were eating into Xerox's business markets and that was a major distraction. Xerox also lacked the means to sell computers. Their salesmen usually dealt with office managers; they knew nothing about computers.<br /><br />The products created at PARC were marvelous (everyone wanted an Alto once they saw one in operation), but they were created with no thought to marketing. Each Alto was hand-built and would have to be sold for a hefty price. Xerox did sell some to the Carter administration for the government information office, but never set up a factory to build Altos.<br /><br />The other problem with marketing the products from PARC was the blindness of the company, including its brilliant researchers, toward the revolution happening right outside their door with small computers. Some of their engineers, like Larry Tesler, Charles Simonyi and Bob Metcalf, did see the potential and left for greener pastures (Tesler to Apple, Simonyi to Microsoft, and Metcalf to found 3Com). But as a company, Xerox had no notion that small cheap computers were about to take the market by storm. When they finally incorporated the Alto technology into the Xerox Star, it was too big, too slow, and too expensive. IBM came out with its PC and businesses bought the cheaper product. The author gives too much credit to IBM, however. The microcomputer revolution was already in full swing and it was only the hubris of the ultra talented researchers PARC employed that kept them from seeing that it was the self-taught garage geeks, not PhD scientists with money to burn, who were the true initiators of personal computing.<br /><br />As for the visit of Steve Jobs, Hiltzik says there were three visits, with progressively more encompassing demonstrations of the Alto-Smalltalk products. He says all of the participants seem to remember it differently, but Jobs has always felt the emphasis on what he learned at Xerox takes away from the talent and vision that already existed at Apple. The author says it was inevitable that Apple would do a better job of selling the public on a graphical interface than a tradition-bound bureaucratic organization like Xerox. It was simply fate that Apple brought out the Lisa and the Macintosh while Xerox brought out the doomed Star.<br /><br />To learn more about computer history, try Stan Veit's book, Stan Veit's History of the Personal Computer, and for the story of the Radio Shack TRS-80, the microcomputer that really introduced the masses to personal computing, read Priming the Pump: How TRS-80 Enthusiasts Helped Spark the PC Revolution. Another good book that covers the early years is Fire in the Valley: The Making of the Personal Computer., Stan Veit's History of the Personal Computer, and for the story of the Radio Shack TRS-80, the microcomputer that really introduced the masses to personal computing, read Priming the Pump: How TRS-80 Enthusiasts Helped Spark the PC Revolution. Another good book that covers the early years is Fire in the Valley: The Making of the Personal Computer.	2002-02-28
US	50854525	R1IF85RQ2H3J76	0892817100	651663620	The Lost Treasure of the Knights Templar: Solving the Oak Island Mystery	Books	3	6	7	N	N	intersting, but draws on known sources	Sora's book covers a lot of ground, probably too much for most readers. Those interested in the Money Pit on Oak Island may find his diversion into the bloodline of Jesus, the Rennes-le-Chateau mystery, and the history of the Scottish Sinclair (St. Clair) family too far afield from the tiny island in Nova Scotia. However, for me those parts were the best parts. Sora draws heavily on the all-time alternate history classic, Holy Blood, Holy Grail. He does not always seem to agree with or even get the message of that classic correct, but he does explore its basic concept that Jesus survived the crucifixion, had offspring, and that the knowledge of that bloodline was the &quot;holy grail&quot; that the Templars guarded.<br />But the Templars also had great worldly treasure that was never found. As the bankers of medieval Europe, they were guardians of vast wealth, which they apparently took to Scotland, where they joined up with the rebel forces of Robert the Bruce. In an independent Scotland, the Sinclair family became the hereditary Grand Masters of freemasonry, the successor to the Templars. Sora writes of the journey across the Atlantic of Henry Sinclair, along with the Zeno brothers of Venice. A much better source for this is Andrew Sinclair's wonderful book, The Sword and the Grail, which provides convincing proof that Scottish knights did indeed beat Columbus to the New World. Sora makes use of this source as well as heavily drawing on Holy Blood, Holy Grail. While The Lost Treasure of the Knights Templar wanders a bit and makes some amazing allegations (like suggesting the defenses built into the Money Pit were the designs of Leonardo Da Vinci), the book contains a lot of information and is good reading for those interested in exploring alternate views of history.	2001-09-09
US	50854525	R3CB1W3QSW86HK	0140267719	930729033	Divided Highways: Building the Interstate Highways, Transforming American Life	Books	3	8	10	N	N	A CHRONICLE OF SOCIAL CHANGE	The Interstate Highway System forever changed American culture, but the engineers who build it were not thinking about that. They were concentrating on accomplishing the biggest building project in the history of the US. Lewis' book is a chronicle of what they built and how it affected the way we live today. In the pages of his book, we meet some of the people who made it happen. They built huge cloverleaf intersections, mighty elevated freeways, and blasted through mountains to join the east coast with the west coast, north with south.<br />The book is interesting reading, but goes off in too many directions, giving only a taste of the social changes wrought by the system and the citizen efforts in urban areas like New Orleans and San Francisco to stop ugly highways. The most surprising thing to me was the miscalculation by the highway designers of the social effects. They somehow thought expressways would bring people INTO cities, not thinking that these massive concrete strips would devastate neighborhoods and make it easier for people to live in the suburbs. Gradually, a nation began to learn that highways are not the answer to all our transportation problems.<br />In my own city -- Detroit -- the building of I-75 tore apart a thriving Hispanic neighborhood in the city, and out in the inner ring suburbs (where I live), a connecting freeway (I-696) was held up for ten years as the tiny municipality of Pleasant Ridge protested the gutting of its small area. In the end, they lost and the highway was built. Today there is a &quot;sound barriar&quot; wall along the freeway, which is down in a ditch, but the constant hum and buzz of the traffic is a steady background noise for the lovely homes that are adjacent to it. Pleasant Ridge is not quite as pleasant as it used to be.<br />It is good to look to the past to avoid repeating costly mistakes, Yes, we need the Interstate Highway System, and we can honor the memory of President Eisenhower who initiated this ambitious and far-reaching program to bring to America &quot;better roads.&quot; The engineering accomplishments are stupendous. I personally watched as I-696 was built and marveled how the engineers tunneled under busy Woodward Avenue and never had to close it down; they built the freeway with little disruption of traffic and I remember the day it opened. It was immediately full of traffic, becoming part of an eventual beltway that will ring Detroit, much like Atlanta and Cinncinati have beltways. I am familiar with those because my family has made many trips down I-75 to Florida. How amazing it is to take one road that passes a few miles from my home in Michigan and just stay on that road all the way to the Sunshine State! I think Tom Lewis admirally captures the mixed feelings we all have about these interstates. Ugly and divisive, yes! Engineering marvels that let us travel safely at high speeds over long distances? You bet!and far-reaching program to bring to America &quot;better roads.&quot; The engineering accomplishments are stupendous. I personally watched as I-696 was built and marveled how the engineers tunneled under busy Woodward Avenue and never had to close it down; they built the freeway with little disruption of traffic and I remember the day it opened. It was immediately full of traffic, becoming part of an eventual beltway that will ring Detroit, much like Atlanta and Cinncinati have beltways. I am familiar with those because my family has made many trips down I-75 to Florida. How amazing it is to take one road that passes a few miles from my home in Michigan and just stay on that road all the way to the Sunshine State! I think Tom Lewis admirally captures the mixed feelings we all have about these interstates. Ugly and divisive, yes! Engineering marvels that let us travel safely at high speeds over long distances? You bet!	2001-08-16
US	50854525	R1EQR1T9683DDX	0425171698	272514083	The Victorian Internet: The Remarkable Story of the Telegraph and the Nineteenth Century's On-line Pioneers	Books	5	1	2	N	N	History at its best	Looking to the past can sometimes help you understand the present and this little book will open your eyes. Tom Standage takes what could have been a dry subject -- telegraphy-- and makes it interesting by drawing a parallel with the modern internet. While the analogy is not perfect, these pages reveal the tremendous impact the instantaneous sending of messages had on the world. Interestingly, some of the first uses are the same as the early uses of modems -- stock quotes, horse racing results and news.<br />The book also brings to life the colorful characters who worked the wires, skilled people who were so in damand they could always get a job. Here was a profession that women entered in considerable numbers, giving them freedom at a time when women were just beginning to push for equal rights. Thomas Edison, that curmudgeon of American industry, got started as a telegrapher. These men and women were the geeks of their day, having fun with their messages and even building romances over the wire.<br />This books helps you see the communications revolution as a series of breakthroughs, with the telegraph as an important part of it. It also is entertaining reading, taking you back to another time when people just like us were making a living sending bits of information all over the world through electronic blips traveling through wire. Sound familiar?	2001-06-02
US	50854525	RUH1G87OK7A2R	0312964013	607402851	When the Sky Fell: In Search of Atlantis	Books	3	19	22	N	N	AN INTERESTING READ	I've done on lot of reading on the topic of Atlantis and this book is a great addition to the many out there. I like the idea that Atlantis could have been in that mysterious continent, Antarctica, but the book falls short of proving it. I wonder if the Palmer Peninsula could have been warm enough to support the conditions described by Plato, with fruit trees and fertile plains? There's also the problem that Plato said Atlantis was \\"beyond the pillars of Hercules\\" which would suggest in the Atlantic Ocean; Plato also said Atlantis sunk into the sea. But there could have been many more islands around Antarctica and some of them could have sunk.<br />There is independent evidence for a \\"mother culture\\" outside of what Plato said. Plato was getting information that had been handed down for hundreds of years, so he could have been wrong about some of it. Aside from the location of Atlantis, the Flem-Aths deal with the possible cyclical nature of earth disasters, as suggested by the work of Charles Hapgood, and this danger to civilization is worth investigation. What if humankind can never advance beyond a certain level because earth is subjected to catastrophic changes on a regular basis? And what if ancient cultures understood this (as suggested by Graham Hancock)?<br />For an overview of the Atlantis question, I recommend reading Plato, the works of Charles Hapgood, and the classic Donnelly book, Atlantis: The Antediluvian World (an oldie but goodie, still in print after more than 100 years!).... But When the Sky Fell is worth a look, since no else one has proven a location for Atlantis and the fascinating theory of Rand and Rose Flem-Ath could be true!	2001-05-27
US	50854525	R3L9RJZ68U7YA	0684834022	541586721	The Old Neighborhood: What We Lost in the Great Suburban Migration, 1966-1999	Books	5	6	8	N	N	I LOVED THIS BOOK	Do not read this book as a cold analysis of what went wrong in our cities, although you will certainly gain some insight into the causes of urban decline. Saurez speaks with the voice of many of us who love much about cities: walking on city sidewalks and waving to neighbors we actually know as they sit on their porches, enjoying the architecture of older storefronts where unique non-chain shops still flourish, and feeling part of a real community.<br /><br />Other reviewers say Saurez concentrates too much on racism as a cause of the loss of those communities. I think rather he simply reports what he saw and makes no apology for feeling city life offered so much more than living in the non-places of highways and strip malls and cul-de-sacs with no sidewalks that characterize America's suburbs.<br /><br />Saurez has written a book that needed to be written.	2000-09-25
US	50854525	R320OZSY5R4UJ5	0609600923	20971521	Dogs That Know When Their Owners Are Coming Home: And Other Unexplained Powers of Animals	Books	5	17	21	N	N	I LOVED THIS BOOK	This is a delightful, readable book that combines a love for animals with real research into psychic connections between humans and animals. Pet owners have always felt this connection, but Rupert Sheldrake provides a  conceptual framework along with solid evidence for an actual bond. When my  daughter was younger, the cat we had then used to wait by the front window  for my daughter. We all noticed this behavior and thought the cat just had  good timing, but the stories in this book tell me this is a common  happening and represents some kind of communication mechanism. I hope Dr.  Sheldrake's research can continue to provide insight into this behavior. I  have read of such behavior in people as well -- check into a book called  Faces in the Smoke by Douchan Gersi. It's unfortunately out of print, but  has stories about people in Haiti and in Africa who routinely sent each  other psychic messages. There is so much more we need to know about this  kind of communication.	2000-07-13
US	50854525	R2Z36G75J5I0P2	157174102X	977065007	The Ultimate Time Machine: A Remote Viewers Perception of Time, and Predictions for the New Millennium	Books	4	53	58	N	Y	Can we see the past and the future?	Joe McMoneagle's The Ultimate Time Machine is fascinating and entertaining, but, for me, it is his view of time that makes the book special. What is the past ? What is the future? Do we really have access to  both? McMoneagle takes us in both directions through his skills as a Remote  Viewer, a term that simply means accessing information through psychic  means, but with a disciplined methodology.  As a writer and author myself,  I can't resist the concept of time travel and I was delighted to find that  something I've come to believe is one of McMoneagle's predictions: that the  same discovery that will one day let us move instantaneously from one  location to another will also let us move in time. Time and place are  connected and we will conquer both. The solution, I think, will turn out to  be simple, and not entirely dependent on technology. We will come to a new  understanding of the true non-linear nature of time. Do we create the  future when we predict it? Maybe we do, and McMoneagle leaves that fine  point to us to decide. Is he helping to bring about a vision, or simply  seeing it? I think it is a bit of both and not everything he views will  come to pass. Remember the words of Yoda, Star Wars Jedi master: \\"Always in  motion is the future.\\"<br />I can forgive Joe for the few blown predictions  that we already know about -- the pope did not die in late 1999 as  predicted. Many others will happen. Which ones? That's what makes it  entertaining; reading the predictions gets your own mind working creating  your own vision of the future. McMoneagle is very direct in these  predictions, stating clearly and unambiguously what will happen and when.  These are no vague Nostradamus-type ramblings that can be interpreted in  multiple ways. McMoneagle lays it all out, and even gives us a vision of  the year 3000. His vision is a hopeful one for mankind. The next thousand  years will see wonders and terrors, and, make no mistake, it's going to be  a bumpy millenium. But then, we knew that, didn't we? By the year 3000, we  will have gotten a lot of it right. I found the book to be really good  reading of the \\"can't put it down\\" variety. If you have intense curiosity  about the mysteries of the past and the promise of the future, buy this  book.ut then, we knew that, didn't we? By the year 3000, we  will have gotten a lot of it right. I found the book to be really good  reading of the \\"can't put it down\\" variety. If you have intense curiosity  about the mysteries of the past and the promise of the future, buy this  book.	2000-05-19
US	50854525	R2L454R21BUQO8	0385485662	707951091	The One to One Future	Books	3	38	47	N	N	What is a &quot;Relationship?&quot;	Peppers and Rogers wrote a pioneering work on reaching customers, that taught marketers to look beyond &quot;segments&quot; to the individual people who actually bought their products or services. But they make an essential mistake in confusing the customer's familiarity with a particular  business with having a relationship. Relationships exist between people who  know one another, and a business relationship is one in which the customer  deals with the same provider for each transaction. An example is a personal  trainer you go to each time you work out, or a using the same accountant  (not just the same accounting firm)  for many years at tax time, or going  to the same hairstylist, even following her when she moves to a new salon.  These are real relationships, but phoning a catalog company and talking to  a different person each time, even if that person can check your past  orders and already has the billing information, is NOT a relationship.<br />Using technology to make a transaction more efficient can be a service  to customers. People do not always seek a relationship with their provider;  sometimes they want anonymity, and the idea that the provider organization  &quot;knows&quot; all about them can be scary. Only by distinguishing  between real relationships and the kind of &quot;pseudo-relationship&quot;  that Peppers and Rogers advocate can you sort out these issues.<br />To learn  more about the concept of &quot;relationship&quot; versus the more common  service encounter (between customer and provider who do not know each other  and do not expect to interact again), read The Brave New Service Strategy  by Dr. Barbara A. Gutek and Theresa Welsh. They postulate a service model  that consists of a triangle of Customer, Organization and Provider (COP).	2000-05-14
US	50854525	R2FPY8CPPKX2S4	0932813712	375403640	The Path of the Pole	Books	5	114	118	N	Y	The book to read first on Pole Shift	I've read the Flem-Ath book (see previous review from Rand Flem-Ath) on the search for Altlantis, and Graham Hancock's excellent book, Fingerprint of the Gods, and both books begin with Hapgood. His ideas on crustal  displacement have been adopted by the &quot;alternate history&quot; writers  and sometimes sensationalized. The back page of the copy of Path of the  Pole which I got from Amazon quotes Richard Noone, author of one of those  sensational books, and actually says &quot;A planetary alignment on May 5,  2000 is predicted to cause the next pole shift -- are you ready?&quot; This  is total nonsense and a disservice to the meticulously researched book that  Hapgood wrote. Hapgood felt these processes took place over thousands of  years, which in his mind was &quot;rapid.&quot; The geologists of his time  were adherents of uniformitarianism and suggesting earth changes could  happen in thousands, not millions, of years was heresy.<br />Rand and Rose  Flem-Ath build on Hapgood in their book, When the Sky Fell: The Search for  Atlantis, and after reading Rand's note above, I feel better about their  book knowing they were in touch with Charles Hapgood. Clearly these ideas  are still not mainstream and it remains to be seen when Hapgood will get  the recognition he deserves. Meanwhile, before you believe all the writers  of &quot;catastrophe&quot; books, read the original. Path of the Pole is  basically an academic book, not always an easy read. Hapgood presents  mountains of evidence and much of it is highly technical. But if you  seriously want to know what &quot;pole shift&quot; is all about, then you  must read Path of the Pole.	2000-05-14
