US	50855499	RRR615NZU7379	0374236755	433092550	Power to the People: How the Coming Energy Revolution Will Transform an Industry, Change Our Lives, and Maybe Even Save the Planet	Books	2	9	19	N	Y	Has no solutions	I expected something completely different when I read this book.  I was expecting that this book would tell about different ways that the future would get energy to the people. <br /> <br />This book is nothing like that the first two thirds of this book is a diatribe on how everybody is using energy the wrong way.  It tells that innovation and micro power is the wave of the future and condemns all government subsidies for energy.  He does not explain why we will be going to micro power but says that's the way it is going to be.   <br /> <br />I have to say I started reading this book and put it down for a while for the racist remarks throughout the book.  It is told from an Indian viewpoint where he makes snide remarks about the British saying that the British East Indian Company was the ultimate in evil. He makes condescending remarks about the Americans not being smart enough to have back-up generator in Silicon Valley whereas in Bangalore India they have them.  <br /> <br />He is obviously against nuclear power by making outrageous remarks about nuclear wastes not being safe for 100,000 years.  I read nuclear renewal and the waste from the newer breeder reactors is a couple of 100 years and they will reduce that as time goes on.  <br /> <br />He is all for the fuel cell and the book is very well written.  He doesn't say how we are going to get the hydrogen that we will need and talks endlessly about the Kyoto Protocol like it was the only peace of legislation that mattered on global warming. <br /> <br />I thought there would be new ideas and processes for the future like biomass or solar chimneys.  There is nothing new or insightful this book seems more like a list of grievances.  <br />	2005-04-05
US	50855499	R193EIMHLB4PZC	0425183009	110612181	Submarine: A Guided Tour Inside a Nuclear Warship (Tom Clancy's Military Reference)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Good background Information	I have read a lot of different types of submarine stories over the past few years like Blind Man's Bluff, The Silent War and the most recent biography of Rickover.  I wanted some background information on exactly how these machines work.    Well this book does more than supply that.  The first section of the book tells about all the systems on a Los Angles class attack sub.  It explains all the systems that are used on the craft with the exception of the nuclear power plant.  It also tells why the US Navy has had no reactor accidents.    The most interesting part I found out was when they launch Torpedoes that have a wire attached to them that is almost 2 miles long that they can send messages correcting the guidance to the target.  I had never heard of this before or ever seen it in a movie.  I suppose they could use them like sonar buoys too.  There were other things that surprised me too but I don't want to tell too much.     The next part talks about a United Kingdom Trafalgar class attack submarine.  It was smaller but quieter than the US boats because instead of having a screw in the back for propulsion it used a pump jet which was the wave of the future.  It also explained the differences between the US and UK's programs in the US Navy engineer skills are more important whereas in the UK it is command skills that are emphasis.  The other thing is the UK brings along more beer with them mostly because of tradition.    The next part, which I thought was the best, was the mission section of the book.   This was broken up into six sections describing the different kinds of roles nuclear submarines could be used for.  There were some true life scenarios along with what we could have done in various situations.  The emphasis here is stealth; the tomahawk mission and the mining mission of North Korean ports show the best example of this.   The weapons are much more sophisticated than I had thought.     The final section on the other nations with submarines surprisedme.  I would have never thought that Italy and Norway would have a submarine force and that France had no nuclear submarines at all just diesels.     This was very interesting material to someone who is interesting in how nuclear submarines work and the kind of men who run them along with their possible missions.  Some of it will amaze you.	2005-02-07
US	50855499	R2PWY62RM14I13	006103004X	893798538	Blind Man's Bluff: The Untold Story of American Submarine Espionage	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	What went on during the cold war	This was a very entertaining book.  It was a true high seas adventure story.   This is the information that you never hear about in history class but it happened.  I have read several other books on Submarines the latest book on Rickover the Struggle for Excellence, and the Craven book the Silent War.  Each told basically about the same time in history from different view points.  I have to say I enjoyed the Rickover book more but this one was more of a page turner.    The book is chronological in order and tells the story of submarines and their clandestine operations.  It gives you a feeling of what life was like aboard a submarine during the cold war and what they were trying to do.    It starts out with the first uses of the snorkel and some of the tragedies that they had at sea to emphasis how dangerous it was.  Then it goes into a ship that was chased by the Soviets.      The middle of the book is mostly tails about attack subs and some of their secret missions and what they did mostly which was trailing Soviet subs.    The book tells what Craven thought was the cause of the Scorpion disaster and how he figures it out.  Then it tells about the special uses of some of the submarines and their fish and the bat cave.  You'll have to read to see what I mean.      The latter part of the book is about the cable tapping operations and what we found out.    Over all it is a very enjoyable read.  People who will like this book are people who like adventure stories, stories about submarines and history buffs who want to know what really went on during the cold war.	2004-09-27
US	50855499	R3L72A5C8RLLVO	0895264064	845084509	Unlimited Access : An FBI Agent Inside the Clinton White House	Books	3	77	88	N	Y	Why is everyone afraid to talk about this guy	I was surprised how long ago this came out and I had never heard of it.  I thought this was a different prospective than most of the book I have read on this subject.  I didn't think that the story was sensationalized.  I don't know why the media or Congress didn't get in on this. <br /> <br />I guess I believe the people who work at the White House should be the best in their field and maintaining that standard through background checks does not seem outrageous. <br /> <br />I can't understand why the Clinton's hated the FBI and the Secret Service people so much they were there to help them.  If it is true of how Hillary Clinton acted in the White House and the Media didn't report it, then the media is truly Liberal. <br /> <br />I was surprised how much trouble Mr. Aldrich had in publishing the book and the problems he had with the FBI so that it was OK to print.   <br /> <br />The best part of the book was some of the interviews that he had with staff that had done illegal drugs.  Some of their responses of surprise and how they acted in general was pretty comical. <br /> <br />There seems to have been a lot of corruption in that administration.  I guess the thing that frightened me the most was letting foreign agents see classified material if they were willing to pay off the Clintons.  <br /> <br />I was surprised how much power Bill Clinton had to give up because of his philandering.  No wonder Hillary Clinton was will to cover it up because she got all the power.  She was truly disrespectful to people which is why she got so burned on that health care thing.  <br /> <br />I could not understand why no one prosecuted Hillary Clinton for all the illegal things she did was it because she could always get a pardon from the President, I do not know. <br /> <br />I was surprised at the end about Bill Clinton's education and his Rhodes Scholar education where he never took classes and just mooched off of other people.  I guess he has been doing that all his life. <br /> <br />It you want to see some basic problems with the Clinton administration that go beyond politics check out this book.  If you think the Clinton's were straight arrows you will hate this book.  <br />	2004-08-10
US	50855499	R35A4LPRN9T52Y	1568582706	729071766	The Manchurian Candidate	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	Excellent additional info you don't get in the movie	I have loved the movie the Manchurian Candidate from the first time I saw it in my 20s.  The book is even better.  I was surprised how much of the book was in the movie.  Like the part where Marco and Rosie meet for the first time on the train.  I thought that was some movie dialogue because it was so goofy.   <br />The background information that you get in the book on things like Raymond's real father gives insight and understanding of why Raymond's mother acts the way that she does.  It does not explain her ties to everyone. <br />I thought it was funny the way the book stereotypes Marco and the girls he meets always making him spaghetti and having the red sauce fly on his walls.  I'm sure that had some symbolic meaning.   <br />The description of the fight between Marco and Chujin is easier to understand in the book.  <br />I like the fact that throughout the book until you find out who has brainwashed Raymond they only refer to the person as his American Operator.  The American Operator is in many scenes before you find out who they but in the movie that wouldn't have worked so because you would have seen them.  <br />The part that is different about the book is the trip to Europe with Raymond's Mother and the things that he does there. <br />In the book Marco is more cold hearted yet a better friend to Raymond.  After all in the book they live together for some time. <br />Raymond relationship with his mother has to be the best part of the book and the things that she pulls on him. <br />The murders in the book are more brutal probably because you have to picture them in your head.  <br />Condon's sardonic humor though out the book gives you the feeling of what people must have gone through in the 50s who were blacklisted. <br />I would highly recommend this book to anyone who likes political thrillers this is a real page turner and it was hard to put down. <br />	2004-08-09
US	50855499	RMMGNSAYZMST4	0895262746	350670764	Hell to Pay: The Unfolding Story of Hillary Rodham Clinton	Books	3	12	14	N	Y	A lot of good details that you don't hear	I have to say that I enjoyed this review of Ms. Clinton or should I say Ms. Rodham.  I don't know how much of this is true but it told a lot of facts that I was unaware.<br />I did not know that she got her leftist views from a socialist pastor.  At least that was the way he came across to me.  I thought it was pretty strange that she didn't wear any make up or shave her legs until Bills run for second term as Governor.  <br />The book pretty much takes for granted that everyone knew Bill was a philanderer and does not make much of an issue of it.  This is what I like about this book it goes in and tells you all the details of the spending to keep the Clintons in nice homes and have a nanny paid for by the tax payer dollars.  I guess politicians are expected to do that. <br />The interesting parts were about the cops getting Bill girls in Washington, travelgate which they could have avoided completely if they just said they wanted their own people in; filegate was the weirdest after the diatribe Hillary gave about Nixon's enemies list.<br />An interesting part I thought was her relationship to Vince Foster.  How the author got all the information is beyond me.<br />It showed how Hillary was an absolute perfectionist and could never be criticized.  She was very clever in getting her husband off the hook all the time and especially in the impeachment by making them focus on the adultery and then threatening to expose all the congress for their indiscretions. <br />The more I read the more I felt this woman's hands in my pockets.<br />If most of this is true, I can not see how she got elected to the Senate, I guess all candidates steal from the cookie jar.  I never understood why this woman thought she had a right to rule over everybody else.  She was just a tyrant.<br />I would recommend this book to people want to know more details about all the scandals.  If you are a Clinton lover you'll probably say it is all lies.	2004-07-08
US	50855499	RJQS8V0O091F5	0895263173	98073583	Betrayal : How the Clinton Administration Undermined American Security	Books	3	8	12	N	Y	Pretty Pernicious stuff	I am beginning to hate to read these books about President Clinton because it seems that everything he did as the President was to line his pockets.  <br />In this one it starts out with a story that seems only mildly related with the lasers which was interesting.  The next ones with the dealings with China makes you think that he did the sex stuff just to cause a diversion from what he was really doing.  I could not believe how far his administration would go before they would put any sanctions on China considering they were selling all their nuclear secrets to Pakistan. China paid for him to get reelected. <br />It seemed like all the aerospace companies were hooked into this and they must have paid President.<br />The dealings with Russia seem to make Clinton out to be a fool allowing them to use the money to rebuild their country to build new nuclear weapons facilities.  Then to let them stop us from creating a missile defense system so that they could sell Russia missile defense systems around the world.  Finally we let them sell nuclear secrets to Iraq.<br />Did the Clinton administration think that no one would notice???  I just don't under stand.<br />I you want to see some shady dealing with the Clinton administration on foreign policy you will enjoy this book if you are a Clinton support get those spin stories ready.	2004-05-21
US	50855499	R3U5TBVIHU6J0Q	0736657134	680723399	Master and Commander	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Fun in the action parts	I have never read one of the series with Patrick O'Brian.  I usually love sea tails.  I got the audio version of this.  This was an enjoyable telling of life at sea and the action and adventure of the Napoleonic Wars.  <br />I enjoyed leering all the nautical terms.  I especially liked the tour the Doctor got explaining all the different sails.  The commander seems more like a solider of fortune than a British servicing officer of the line.  He had many quirks like the dealing with women and the problems with his wig.<br />I'll have to admit the funniest part of this book was the story of the seaman who buggered the goat when I got to that part I was laughing out loud.<br />The sea battles in the story seemed pretty graphic and the injuries real.  The characters were interesting.<br />The one thing I didn't like about the book was the ending.  I thought it was pretty disappointing and unexpected and the book ended pretty quickly as well. <br />I think next time I will have to get the book and not the audio version because I don't think I savored it enough.	2004-03-30
US	50855499	R2KQW9GBT9QTA5	0895261294	206337612	Legacy: Paying the Price for the Clinton Years	Books	3	11	20	N	Y	Doesn't Point enough fingers	Well this book while very revealing only points the finger at Clinton and not all those involved.  The book is divided into sections Politics and Policy, Scandal and Law and Foreign Policy.<br />I could not believe that Clinton ran his presidency on the basis of opinion polls.  He was elected to rule not follow the feelings of public sentiment.  I think that the people should get their money back from his eight years because we seem to have decided all the issues.  This was not leadership at all.  His policy not to meet with the head of the CIA because he wanted to focus only domestic policy his first years in office was ridiculious.  I was not surprised to find out that Hillary needed to give approval but I didn't know how much she hated all white males and that they are all evil.  I espically liked the line she used when asked what to do for white males.  She said &quot;Screw 'em!!!&quot;<br />In the scandal and law section I could not believe all the lawsuits that this guy got in.  I didn't realize Clinton got the state police to get him girls.  The book really emphasises the adultry thing when I think that is minor compared to his getting illegal foreign money to pay for his campaign in '96.  The only reason he settled with Jennifer Flowers was because he lied under oath and was caught with Monica.<br />The other part of the Law section dealt with Janet Reno the bunny queen.  She was so unqualified for this job having no federal experience and just made it because Hillary said they needed a woman.  She was all about saving children and making sure no ones rights were infringed upon espically if you're a friend of the White House.  The plans that she fought on immigration show that she was clueless.<br />In the foreign policy section Clinton seemed very naive.  He thought every one wanted to work together in harmony.  He trusted Arafat and it revialized him and made Clinton look like a fool.  He didn't do a thing when 800,000 were killed in Rwanda but he was Africa's friend.  In Somilia he tried to build a nation but got shot at and ran away.  He gave away a plethora of technology to American enemies to line his pockets.<br />The shows the most in the final chapter where they tell what he is doing now.  He is getting as many speaking enagements for as much money as possible.<br />Overall the book was interesting but it was pretty right-wing if you're a Clinton lover you won't like it.  If you can handle that then book's strongest part is the information on foreign policy.	2004-03-17
US	50855499	RFLOCT05G7YNT	0895261294	206337612	Legacy: Paying the Price for the Clinton Years	Books	3	4	8	N	Y	Doesn't Point enough fingers	Well this book while very revealing only points the finger at Clinton and not all those involved.   The book is divided into sections Politics and Policy, Scandal and Law and Foreign Policy. <br />I could not believe that Clinton ran his presidency on the basis of opinion polls.  He was elected to rule not follow the feelings of public sentiment.  I think that the people should get their money back from his eight years because we seem to have decided all the issues.  This was not leadership at all.  His policy not to meet with the head of the CIA because he wanted to focus only domestic policy his first years in office was ridiculious.  I was not surprised to find out that Hillary needed to give approval but I didn't know how much she hated all white males and that they are all evil.  I espically liked the line she used when asked what to do for white males.  She said &quot;Screw 'em!!!&quot;<br />In the scandal and law section I could not believe all the lawsuits that this guy got in.  I didn't realize Clinton got the state police to get him girls.  The book really emphasises the adultry thing when I think that is minor compared to his getting illegal foreign money to pay for his campaign in '96.  The only reason he settled with Jennifer Flowers was because he lied under oath and was caught with Monica. <br />In the foreign policy section Clinton seemed very naive.  He thought every one wanted to work together in harmony.  He trusted Arafat and it revialized him and made Clinton look like a fool.  He didn't do a thing when 800,000 were killed in Rwanda but he was Africa's friend.  In Somilia he tried to build a nation but got shot at and ran away.  He gave away a plethora of technology to American enemies to line his pockets.  <br />The shows the most in the final chapter where they tell what he is doing now.  He is getting as many speaking enagements for as much money as possible.<br />Overall the book was interesting but it was pretty right-wing if you're a Clinton lover you won't like it.  If you can handle that then book's strongest part is the information on foreign policy.	2004-03-17
US	50855499	R2CIZL95JLFQE	0743528344	376327637	Living History	Books	1	129	177	N	N	Dreaming History	I have the audio version of this book.  It tells the story of Hilary Clinton from her birth to the end of her husband term in office.  I got this because I wanted to know what they were doing in the White House for 8 years.  Now I am not some crazy right winger and I did listen to the entire book. <br />The story she tells is like the version you would hear from a college sorority girl.  I say this because she sees the world though Rose color glasses.  She really doesn't tell about the history just her personal observations.  It seems like she is complaining all the time because the Republicans were out to get her and her husband.   Everything she did was right but those evil doers kept stopping her from getting her health care proposals through.  <br />The other big topic was women's rights and in this diatribe you hear how men all over the world are out to suppress women.  I could see her point when she talked about some of the Asian countries but not here. She was a little peculiar when it came to some of her anecdotes like the one about Jackie Kennedy and when they tried to get her to go off a high dive.  All she did was climb up and down the ladder if she would have jumped if would have been an interesting story.  I will admit there were some funny anecdotes like the time when she described how the President taught his daughter to drive. <br />The book is petty when it came to accusations of other people.  An example would be the story with Newt Gingrige, saying how he wouldn't help a bill because Bill Clinton snubbed him at his mother's funeral.  I mean are these guys in High School.  The worst topic of the book is whitewater.  She brings it up again and again and again.  I was sick of it when I was less than half way through. <br />She goes over historical points like WACO and the Oklahoma City bombings like they are minor footnotes giving more attention to how Kenneth Starr's indictments were all politically motivated.<br />I figure that she was right when she said that President's shouldn't have to face civil lawsuits while they are in office because these people were in court all the time.   <br />I would have like to have heard how she interacted with Janet Reno or if they ever interacted at all, she does mention Madeline Albright a couple of times because they went to the same school.   <br />All the people that they knew from Arkansas seemed to be all flim-flam men.  At first they were all good and trustworthy but later the author was just shocked and dismayed at how her friends of good character were acting. <br />There are some statements that she makes that I simply do not believe to be true like the time when she said that Bill was trying to get congress to spend more on terrorism and that they should be watching the Muslim charities.  I have read several other accounts on this in \\"The man who warned America\\", \\"Sleeping with the Devil\\" and \\"Why America Slept\\".  They all told how this administration was doing nothing like that.  It was easy to say she was doing this 5 years later with 20/20 hindsight. <br />The thing that drove me a little crazy in this whole story was near the end saying that Bush stole the election.  She claimed to be an expert on the constitution but she doesn't understand the election process.  Gore won the popular vote but did not get enough electoral votes.  This makes the election federally democratic so that on candidate cannot be popular in one section of the country but must be elected by a majority of the states.  I learned this in high school and I know Hillary Clinton learned it also because we come from the same city Park Ridge.<br />The part about the impeachment showed how vicious this woman can be.  She was vitriolic in her accusation of anyone involved in that process.  Man, I would never want to get on her bad side. She was really angry when Ken Starr put his findings on the internet. <br />I would recommend this to any one who believes President Clinton never did anything wrong and was responsible in his job and believe the only woman he fooled around with was Monica Lewinsky.  If you don't believe that then you will get very angry when you read this book or listen to the tape.	2004-02-23
US	50855499	R330L1CT5329Q3	0743528344	376327637	Living History	Books	1	15	28	N	N	Dreaming History	I have the audio version of this book.  It tells the story of Hilary Clinton from her birth to the end of her husband term in office.  I got this because I wanted to know what they were doing in the White House for 8 years.  Now I am not some crazy right winger and I did listen to the entire book. <br />The story she tells is like the version you would hear from a college sorority girl.  I say this because she sees the world though Rose color glasses.  She really doesn't tell about the history just her personal observations.  It seems like she is complaining all the time because the Republicans were out to get her and her husband.   Everything she did was right but those evil doers kept stopping her from getting her health care proposals through.  <br />The other big topic was women's rights and in this diatribe you hear how men all over the world are out to suppress women.  I could see her point when she talked about some of the Asian countries but not here. She was a little peculiar when it came to some of her ante dotes like the one about Jackie Kennedy and when they tried to get her to go off a high dive.  All she did was climb up and down the ladder if she would have jumped if would have been an interesting story.  I will admit there were some funny ante dotes like the time when she described how the President taught his daughter to drive. <br />The book is petty when it came to accusations of other people.  An example would be the story with Newt Gingrige, saying how he wouldn't help a bill because Bill Clinton snubbed him at his mother's funeral.  I mean are these guys in High School.  The worst topic of the book is whitewater.  She brings it up again and again and again.  I was sick of it when I was less than half way through. <br />She goes over historical points like WACO and the Oklahoma City bombings like they are minor footnotes giving more attention to how Kenneth Starr's indictments were all politically motivated.  <br />I would have like to have heard how she interacted with Janet Reno or if they ever interacted at all, she does mention Madeline Albright a couple of times because they went to the same school.   <br />All the people that they knew from Arkansas seemed to be all flim-flam men.  At first they were all good and trustworthy but later the author was just shocked and dismayed at how her friends of good character were acting. <br />There are some statements that she makes that I simply do not believe to be true like the time when she said that Bill was trying to get congress to spend more on terrorism and that they should be watching the Muslim charities.  I have read several other accounts on this in \\"The man who warned America\\", \\"Sleeping with the Devil\\" and \\"Why America Slept\\".  They all told how this administration was doing nothing like that.  It was easy to say she was doing this 5 years later with 20/20 hindsight. <br />The thing that drove me a little crazy in this whole story was near the end saying that Bush stole the election.  She claimed to be an expert on the constitution but she doesn't understand the election process.  Gore won the popular vote but did not get enough electoral votes.  This makes the election federally democratic so that on candidate cannot be popular in one section of the country but must be elected by a majority of the states.  I learned this in high school and I know Hillary Clinton learned it also because we come from the same city Park Ridge.<br />The part about the impeachment showed how vicious this woman can be.  She was vitriolic in her accusation of anyone involved in that process.  Man, I would never want to get on her bad side. <br />I would recommend this to any one who believes President Clinton never did anything wrong and was responsible in his job.  If you don't believe that then you will get very angry when you read this book or listen to the tape.	2004-02-23
US	50855499	R1Y3KH57UXPT54	1572700645	949556910	Brave New World (Cover to Cover Classics)	Books	4	0	1	N	Y	Sci-fi of morality	I never read this book in high school like I should have.  So I thought I would get the audio cassette version.  Well I can tell you that I thoroughly enjoyed it.  Michael York does an excellent reading although his girly voices will make you laugh at first.<br />I guess if I had read this when I was in high school I would have never realized what an anti-communist book it was.  I would have thought that it was a sci-fi book with all the cool helicopters and other transportation devices.  The impersonal part about baby factory made me feel cold.  I couldn't imagine growing up with no relatives or not knowing who your family was.  The morality with all the people having sex all the time was different except for the fact that you were not allowed to have the choice not to have sex if you didn't want it.<br />The savage's lives were a little too moralistic for me but I guess it was written in the 1930s.  He just over emphasized his feelings of love and was too appalled by people having sex all the time.<br />The overall message was insightful still showing how it is always better to have freedom of choice then to be bound to the collective.<br />This is a good book or tape for high school age people to listen to.	2004-01-21
US	50855499	R3I8L348HTZEM0	1400050219	164626155	Sleeping with the Devil: How Washington Sold Our Soul for Saudi Crude	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Look for new resources	I thoroughly enjoyed this book; it is definitely a page turner.  The first couple of chapters of this book I got pretty angry at the Saudi Royal family.  Not only where they greedy and useless they paid for creating fanatics who hated the West and the Saudi Royal family.  The Royal family stole land and doesn't even follow the rules of its own religion when they are out of the country. <br />The next couple of chapters go me mad at Washington Politicians and how they all had their hands out.  No one wanted to speak of all the atrocities that were happening in Saudi Arabia as long as they got a piece of the action.  I was surprised how both parties made their money on speaking engagements and getting jobs from companies when they were the heads of the FBI and CIA after they left.<br />I had not even heard of the Muslim Brotherhood before this book and what they were doing.  I agreed with the author when he said that since the country was in 30% unemployment and the people had nothing to do but go to the mosques and hear all the radical ideas it's no wonder they hate everyone who is not a Muslim.  <br />The next part was even more scary when they told you that the fanatical groups were trying to move north and take the oil reserves by the Caspian Sea and control more of the world oil supplies.<br />I was also surprise at how much of the military industrial complex depends on them to supply so many jobs her in America. <br />I don't agree with the author's solution.  I think it would be better to have our President ask for more alternate forms of fuel to be mass produced like hydrogen and have our cars run on that.  To produce it we could use nuclear power and electrolysis and become independent of them.  Then try to get the people to realize the King should abdicate because he is dead since 1995 and maybe that reformer crown prince can do better.<br />The book had many interesting and unknown activities about Saudi Arabia.  I think everyone should read it to get a better understanding of the politics of the Middle East.	2004-01-19
US	50855499	R286GU8NX785TT	0375508791	832739283	Why America Slept: The Failure to Prevent 9/11	Books	3	8	20	N	N	Why Mr. Posner Slept	This book was different than I had expected from the title.  I thought it was going to be similar in form to the Kennedy book Why England Slept. The Kennedy book compared the two forms of governments fascism and democracy and why one type prepared for war more quickly than the other.  Then give some conclusions on how each system worked.  This book was not like this. <br />The book is chronological in form. It starts out with the faction fighting between the Jewish community and Muslims community in New York.  It tells how al Quaeda got started and who their leaders were.  This was hard to follow, who every one was and where they were from, a couple of graphics or charts would have been helpful or a little biography at the end on each character in the appendix.  <br />He tells how Osa bin Ladin and other members of al Quaeda built up a terrorist network from the ground up and implicating several Arab nations helping out.  Some helped out to achieve their clandestine goals other supplied funds to keep them out of their country, like protection money. <br />Throughout this entire book he tells about the conflict between the CIA and FBI and how they would not cooperate in sharing information. He doesn't say but the competition and lack of cooperation between the two agencies seemed to be the major reason for September 11th. <br />He tells about the 1993 World Trade Center bombing, the bombing of different embassies over the years leading up to the USS Cole bombing.<br />The most interesting part about the book was the way al Quaeda created all of its funding.  All the funding came from here in America.  Some through different scams but most of them came through Muslim charities and fund raisers.  I found it hard to believe some of the quotes at these fund raisers where the speakers would say \\"Kill all Jews and Christians\\" and wanted to kill all moderate Muslims.  It made the book seem more slanted and less accurate.<br />The story of the Holy Land charity intrigued me.They got money for widows of martyrs.  Well this is what I think about martyrs. First you got these guys who are too lazy to take care of their families so to get out of it they go and kill themselves and as many other people as they can so they don't have to work for a living.  Then this charity wants you to give money to their families.  It's a terrible cycle.  <br />He tells how President Clinton terror policy was non existent.  After the first World Trade Center bombing he didn't go to visit it and never saw the CIA director until two years later.  His policy was based on the polls and he would not react unless the polls said it was favorable.  He was very concern about his Presidency having American causalities so he would just pull troops out when there was trouble.  He was like Neville Chamberlain appeasing the Nazis before World War II.  It had the same effect, it made Bin Ladin feel stronger and stronger and more willing to do more acts of terror.   <br />When the hijackers arrive he tells more about the bumbling of the FBI and INS in tracking them.  He tells how simple they would have been able to catch them is they had all the databases they needed but budget constrictions on terror stopped that. <br />He next goes into the connection in Germany and how German officials didn't give up the ring leaders because it was implied that they were double agents.<br />Finally the author tell the story of how they captured and interrogated Zubaydah.  This implied that the Saudi Royal family knew about September 11th and did not tell us.  All those involved in the Royal family were eliminated to avoid embarrassment.<br />Well I thought that the book was interesting in the facts that it presented.  I think Mr. Posner should get a new editor because the book was put together like a high school term paper. <BR>There were things in the notes that should have been part of the main text.   As I said before some charts or biographies of the characters should have been included. <br />As for the last chapter it seems like a fabrication because I don't believe that Mr. Posner could get that detail information about our interrogation of prisoners.  Mr. Posner treatment of Saudi's throughout the book is demeaning so he must have his own agenda on them.<br />As for my recommendation, you could read it if you want background information on the subject but make sure it is not the only one that you read.	2004-01-12
US	50855499	R173E0VSE2XJ95	0743223268	341288551	The Silent War: The Cold War Battle Beneath the Sea	Books	3	14	15	N	N	Interesting view from the top	I have read several stories about the cold war but I never seemed to get the big picture that I got from this book.  I thought this was going to be a book mostly about submarine warfare.  I was surprised at all of the other missions that were connected to special operations.<br />It starts out and tries to explain the reasons for deterances and how to utilize them against an enemy.  He seems to tell us in this part that we had to have enough to make the enemy take notice but not too much where they felt they had no choice but to make a first strike. <br />The methods that he tells about next where, first the Polaris missile system the problems with the original missile and the benefits and problems of the fuels that they used.  After the missile was successful Dr. Craven told about how the Polaris originally had one mega ton warhead and later they figured out how to use MIRVs for a greater deterrence. At this point he tells some personal information about how he got to be head of the program. <br />The story then went into the loss of the Thresher and the possible causes but at this point the story changes and leaves submarines for deep submergence projects.  <br />First you learn about the deep submergence rescue vehicle but it is vague on what it does.  If you saw the movie the Hunt for Red October you would have a better idea.  Next you learn about Sealab I & II and all the problems they had there.  I would not have thought that these were so clandestine if I had not read this book.  At this point you learn about saturation diving and the problems and benefits of the programs. <br />The next part is more interesting where you learn more about the submarines Seawolf, Whale and Halibut.  The only problem is that I have learned more on the history channel than I have in this book because it does not talk about any specific missions.  When it talks about the Trieste bathyscaphe the book only references it to talk about how they were going to use the Trieste II as a spy weapon.  <br />The fisherman's friend was an interesting story about the lost nuclear bomb and what the fisherman tried to get for that find.  The book mention's what they had to do to recover it and what lessons they learned to increase their capabilities under the sea.  This knowledge leads to the NR-1.  This book does not talk much about the NR-1 if you want to read a good book on it read Lee Vyborny's account in Dark Waters: An Insider's account of the NR-1, the cold war's undercover nuclear sub.  At this point he tells about how he had to deal with Rickover and the type of man that Craven thought he was. <br />Craven follows this with the story of the two missing submarines and how they had to go and find them.  I was surprise that they were able to pin point both of these subs with some acoustic recording from back in the early 70s.   This was the most interesting part of the book when Dr. Craven thinks that the reason for the missing Soviet sub is that it was a rogue that was firing a missile at Hawaii but the fail safes caused an explosion and sunk the sub.  I had never heard that story before. <br />The remainder of the book describes the debacle of the Glomar Explorer, how this Soviet spy was after him for years and the ending of the cold war.  <br />I can recommend this book if you are looking of an overview of the political strategy used in our military during the cold war.  If you are looking for an adventure novel telling you about one of the exciting projects in detail then I think you would be disappointed.   <br />As you can tell I enjoyed the book but there were many unanswered questions that left me wanting more.	2003-09-16
US	50855499	R1F3645AWTCEO3	0870216783	781459831	20,000 Leagues Under the Sea	Books	5	24	24	N	Y	The rest of the adventure story	I could not believe this version of 20,000 leagues under the sea.  I learned so much from this book.  All the other movies and stories that I heard about Captain Nemo were not even close to all the adventures that he goes on in this book.  When I think about the movie by Walt Disney and then remember the book I realize that the movie was about 1/4 of the books adventures.<br />All the adventures that I never heard about before like the hunt on the sea floor with the electric bullets, the Arabian tunnel under the sea, Santorin Island the Grecian Archipelago, the volcanoes of the Mediterranean, the Bay of Vigo with all the treasures, the size of the mountains in Atlantis, the adventure at the South Pole, the fight with all the sperm whales, his home Island and the production of salt to run his electric engines.<br />There is so much more to this story than what I have heard before and in this edition the foot notes are excellent.  I especially like the story of Arachne and how the name of Arachnid came to mean spiders.  The footnotes explain all the literary references which are helpful to understanding the characters.  There is so much information here about the sea world in an adventure that makes each moment exciting.<br />Verne must have done so much research for this book to get all the scientific information correct.  I never thought they knew all those things about the sea at that time.<br />I was surprised by the character of Nemo who never seemed to go after anyone unless he was attacked.  The whole idea that he chased after all forms of warships was something made up in Hollywood. Nemo never seemed to want to even deal with people. The story of Nemo's life at the end of the book explains many of his behaviors.<br />The description of all the types of food that they were constantly eating was interesting you never knew what they were going to catch in the Nautilus' nets.<br />I thought the adventure at the South Pole was the best of all with the predicament that they got into.  It was the most adventurous and had the most suspense.<br />I do not know why a book like this is not required reading for high school kids they would learn so much as well as adults.  There is so much science geography, ichthyology, astronomy practical uses of physics etc.<br />I would recommend this book to everyone who likes science and adventure.	2003-09-09
US	50855499	R3H0XKW0PKQ390	0899681352	544973196	Beau Geste	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Action adventure at its best	I had seen many of the movies as a kid, so I thought I should get the rest of the story by reading the book.  Well, I was delightfully surprised by the book.  The book was much more mysterious and intriguing then the movies.    I liked the way the plot developed but the brothers seemed to age a lot more or maybe just matured more as the book went on.  When you first meet them in Beau Geste and his band everyone comes across as if they were teenagers but within a couple of days after the disapearance of the blue water when the brothers join the legion you find out that they are all in their early 20s.  The time in the legion seems longer too like almost 4 years but at the end of the story it's about half as long as that.     The one thing about the version of the book I was reading which was the one with the pictures from the 1926 film was that there were no maps.  So what I did was as I followed the brothers I would go on mapquest and print a map of the area and trace their route.  Then I would fold it and keep it at that point in the book.  I like the fact that they kept many of the terms in the native tongue.  I have word and there are these downloads free from Microsoft that you can download so that you can translate in to many different languages.  Between making the maps and figuring out the translations it made the book much more adventurous for me.    I did not know much about the history of Algeria and I did not realize that the French had fought with the Arabs in Northern Africa for many generations.  The Arabs are pretty stereotyped but there is the fact that the brothers learn Arabic to keep their minds sharp and this helps them down the road.  I did not realize that Arabic languages were spoken all along North Africa and that it is mostly dessert.  I thought that was more of the Middle East.     You will notice that all the bad guys seem to be of the same nationality either being French like Legume or Italian like Bondini as opposed to the good guys being the English and the Americans.   I like the fact that the American's were Texas Rangers because I think that is how the rest of the world perceives us.  Buddy and Duke might have been caricatures but they were always honest and true just like the English characters of John, Digby and Michael were proper and honorable.     The best part of the book was after the Fort at Zindernuf because you really don't see that part in the movies and you see how John, Digby, Buddy and Duke try to help each other to get to the English city of Kano in Nigeria.  I really wanted to know what happened to one of the Americans but I won't give that away.    At the end of the book I thought that I had everything figured out and I would know what Michael's letter was going to say but I was pretty surprise and it made me enjoy the overall theme of the novel.    I would recommend this book to anyone who likes adventure novels about far away places.	2003-07-17
US	50855499	R3JCUBVQAB9AOR	0848815157	544973196	Beau Geste	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Action adventure at its best	I had seen many of the movies as a kid, so I thought I should get the rest of the story by reading the book. Well, I was delightfully surprised by the book. The book was much more mysterious and intriguing then the movies.   I liked the way the plot developed but the brothers seemed to age a lot more or maybe just matured more as the book went on. When you first meet them in Beau Geste and his band everyone comes across as if they were teenagers but within a couple of days after the disappearance of the blue water when the brothers join the legion you find out that they are all in their early 20s. The time in the legion seems longer too like almost 4 years but at the end of the story it's about half as long as that.   The one thing about the version of the book I was reading which was the one with the pictures from the 1926 film was that there were no maps. So what I did was as I followed the brothers I would go on mapquest and print a map of the area and trace their route. Then I would fold it and keep it at that point in the book. I like the fact that they kept many of the terms in the native tongue. I have word and there are these downloads free from Microsoft that you can download so that you can translate in to many different languages. Between making the maps and figuring out the translations it made the book much more adventurous for me.   I did not know much about the history of Algeria and I did not realize that the French had fought with the Arabs in Northern Africa for many generations. The Arabs are pretty stereotyped but there is the fact that the brothers learn Arabic to keep their minds sharp and this helps them down the road. I did not realize that Arabic languages were spoken all along North Africa and that it is mostly dessert. I thought that was more of the Middle East.   You will notice that all the bad guys seem to be of the same nationality either being French like Legume or Italian like Bondini as opposed to the good guys being the English andthe Americans. I like the fact that the American's were Texas Rangers because I think that is how the rest of the world perceives us. Buddy and Hank might have been caricatures but they were always honest and true just like the English characters of John, Digby and Michael were proper and honorable.   The best part of the book was after the Fort at Zindernuf because you really don't see that part in the movies and you see how John, Digby, Buddy and Hank try to help each other to get to the English city of Kano in Nigeria. I really wanted to know what happened to one of the Americans but I won't give that away.   At the end of the book I thought that I had everything figured out and I would know what Michael's letter was going to say but I was pretty surprise and it made me enjoy the overall theme of the novel.   I would recommend this book to anyone who likes adventure novels about far away places.	2003-07-17
US	50855499	R30X4JNZCMUWRV	067187036X	383457570	Fahrenheit 451: A Novel	Books	3	1	5	N	N	Ironic book on Firefighters	The was a fun little futuristic book on society and the fear that someone may learn something different then the government's message by reading.  It tells a story of two lonely people who are caught up in their own lifes but learn about a whole new world by reading. <br />The premise of the story of Firefighter who burn down building of people who don't follow the government is ironic.  The story in interesting and tender in parts.<br />The only problem with this book is the usual ending that all these types of books have with the two characters escaping and the rest of the world, well you know if you have read it.	2003-05-06
US	50855499	R2XXD8WVD7AUMK	0140390464	474714897	The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn: Revised Edition (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Best look at morality	I know most people had to read this in school so I wondered why it was so important and I finally read it after college.  I know it is suppose to be a kids story but I found it to be one of the best books on morality I have ever read.<br />The book teaches how even the most dowdy, illiterate knows that it is wrong to have another person as a slave.<br />Huck goes through lots of experiences on his trip down the river. He learns about the envy of his father, he can't understand why the families are feuding and killing each other year after year for an old arguement.  He learns how to be a charlaton and what happens to people who lie.<br />The best part is when Tom Sawyer meets up with him and makes him and Jim follow all the rules from the pirate story and drives all the adults crazy.<br />I really enjoyed this book and believe every teenage should read it.	2003-05-06
US	50855499	RHASCO8DBMY37	0451521943	259828480	Ivanhoe (Signet classics)	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Knights of Templer	I enjoyed this adventure yarn on many levels.<br />I was glad to learn about the Knights of Templer and that they were crusaders.  I always wondered how Sam Spade in the Maltese Falcon knew that and it is because of this classic.<br />I was surprised that it talked so much about Robin of Lockesley.  The story of Ivanhoe seemed to be the same only told by Ivanhoe's friends and not Robin's.<br />I thought that the DeBracyn and the Knight of Templer Brian de Bois Guilbert were pretty evil guys which made the story interesting.  They were weasels when they had their backs to the wall but did preform with honor when required like when Richard gets DeBracy.<br />I guess I did not understand the prejudice of the time because they treated the Jews like dirt and they were so sterotypical. I really thought that the Jewish girl Rebecca was going to end up with Ivanhoe instead of that Saxon Lady Roweana. I guess you have to appreciate the times that they lived in.<br />It was a different look the Richard/Prince John history.	2003-05-06
US	50855499	R3BLCGI2M2T5V1	0262082950	945012739	Tomorrow's Energy: Hydrogen, Fuel Cells, and the Prospects for a Cleaner Planet	Books	3	23	25	N	Y	Half the story	This book has a lot of useful information but the problem is not the material but the book could use an editor.  The story continually jumps back and forth.  When the book uses comparisons it goes from Joules to BTUs then Gallons to Liters so you never seem to compare apples to apples or the book should have had a conversion table.  It's as if the author is afraid to tell the truth of how it might be a little expensive now to convert,  but eventually it will be cost effective. The book also has no diagrams, or graphs that would explain fuel cells or cost effectiveness.  ...<br />The author seems to shy away from nuclear power as a solution for creating hydrogen.  I think it would be a great interim solution where you could put the nuclear reactor on sites off shore or in the Great Lakes so you would have a supply of water and pump all the hydrogen and electricity produced to the city.  The hydrogen could be sent to fuel cell power plants and fuel stations for vehicles.  Eventually from the money made from this move on to geothermal methods.<br />I don't want to seem down on this book because it gave me a lot of good information the best part was the different ways that they can create hydrogen. Hydropower, Wind, Solar, Photovoltaic, Biomass, Advanced Solar concepts, orbiting solar mirrors, converting thermal energy from oceans and Geothermal.  The one that I left out that I thought was the coolest was the Giant Solar Chimneys.  I found out that they are actually making one in Australia; I can only hope that it works. I liked the part with the solar mirrors and why they didn't work, that was kind of funny. <br />The book never explains why they are not doing some of these things.  I guess because of the cost but it is not clear.  The best and safest way would be to produce hydrogen is geothermal but the book never explains why we don't do it.  <br />The chapter on the uses for hydrogen started out interesting but ends with a walk into the cosmos with the SETI stuff.It was parenthetical information that the author wanted us to be aware of that did not belong in this book.  <br />This book seem like a confused mass of projects that never seemed to get off the ground and a couple that could be a solution for the future.  I wish the book was organized so that the history came first and then focus in on various areas, production, types of fuel cells, different forms of hydrogen, infrastructure, present uses, future use and the road ahead and what are the possible type of plans for the future. <br />I wish the book could have recommended more books to read on the subject that could answer some of these questions. <br />I guess I was looking for more clear cut solutions.	2003-05-06
US	50855499	R1YFDXRY0T468G	0375507469	155280014	Cicero: The Life and Times of Rome's Greatest Politician	Books	4	8	9	N	N	You won't see this in the movies	Well I was pleasantly surprised by this book about Cicero.  I thought it was going to be a rehashing of what you have seen in the movies from Spartacus to Cleopatra.  This was a completely different view.  <br />First it explained how the Roman Republic really worked from the time just before Sulla.  You had to work through several levels before you could become a counsel in Rome.  There was also an age requirement.  Second I assumed that no one but the Patrician class could move up in power, while Cicero did not come from that class and used his acumen to became first Counsel of Rome.  It was truly a republic and not a feudal system.<br />I enjoyed learning about the young lives and trials of people like Julius Ceasar, Pompey and Cicero.  Each of them took a different course to reach the pinnacle of their system of government.  An interesting tidbit was that lawyers like Cicero were not paid but did receive gifts from people or were left in their wills.<br />They had ex post facto laws where the Republic could charge the first counsels with all sorts of crimes after they had been counsel.  Not just at the end of their term but 5 years after as in Cicero's case.  Being first counsel did ot seem like the best job.  I would have rather been a governor of a provience for an extended period of time like Ceasar did with Gaul, that was how he got all his wealth.  I enjoyed the story of Marcus Lincinnus Crasas, it did not say where he got all his wealth but it did say how he died which I always wondered about after seeing Spartacus.<br />It seemed that the whole time that Cicero was alive that they were going through some Civil War.  The alliances made for convenience and broken for polical gain were the most interesting. It was hard to keep track of all the characters because they were always switching sides and doing what was  best for themselves like a regular Bill Clinton.  (I'm sure that will rub some people the wrong way.)  <br />There is a large emphasis on law andhow it was determined throughout the book.  Most of the decree and laws were changed back and forth several times to favor the party in power. <br />A lot of the book is about Julius Ceasar and even though he was murdered bought about the end of the republic.  I was surprised how much Cicero seem to hate Antony.  The story about Antony is much different than I had expected.  In the movies he always goes after Cassias and Brutus right after Ceasar's murder but in the book it shows the true and completely different story.<br />The final alliance between Antony and Octavian shows how self centered these two power hungry Generals had become by compromising by putting all the wealthly people on a proscription list.  Well I guess if you got to rich in ancient Rome you got killed for your wealth.  Then Antony and Octavian go out after Cassais and Brutus to solidify their power with Octavian winning out overall in the end because he lasted the longest and had no one to challenge him. <br />I throughly enjoyed this book because it was different than I had expected.	2003-04-16
US	50855499	R2DZGRSMNAGYAX	0451207777	139072299	Dark Waters:: An Insider's Account of the NR-1 The Cold War's Undercover Nuclear Sub	Books	4	5	7	N	Y	History you never hear about	This was a fun little book to read about the NR-1.  After reading it, I could not understand why more deep sea submersibles were not nuclear powered.   The idea that all these others staying  down for only 6 to 8 hours while the NR-1 could stay down a month should have told all deep sea submersible builders that nuclear power was the way to go. <br />You don't get to read about all the missions and it doesn't really explain why there are not more NR-1s.  The only reason seems to be the initial cost.  It's hard to believe that after how sucessful this one was that they did not build a fleet of them.<br />They never explain how deep it can go which I was curious about because I would like to know if it could have visited the Titanic.  I am surprised that there was never anything about this on the History channel now that it is out of the bag with this book hopefully they will do something about that.<br />It was a good real life adventure story.	2003-04-10
US	50855499	R3TD8ZC9WDYP25	0140390847	551860371	Moby-Dick: or, The Whale (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	0	3	N	N	Lots of symbolism throughout the book	This was one of the best sea stories ever written.  It was different than I had expected.  I thought it was going to be like the movie with Gregory Peck.  The book is different in many ways.  First you have to realize when the book was written to really understand it.  It was written in the 1850s in the US.  <br />I found the book to an indictment of the times and a protest  against slavery. You have to remember the characters.  All the guys from Nantucket are from every race in the world, look at the three harpooners.  There was an Indian, a black and wild South Pacific Island guy.This show about the way that people were treated at the time.  What are they all going after but the great white whale in the South.  What is the whale but a great beast beating down on all the others.  <br />Ahab is my favoriate character who against all odds goes after the great white whale to take from him what the whale has taken from so many others.  It is this stuggle against this Madman who tried to get all his crew to work together to slay the beast,  but as was the times the evil which was slavery still existed in the US so the whale prevailed. <br />I also like all the details about whaling and how they used every piece of it for something.  The funniest part was Keequay coming in from the rain with the poncho that was made from that part of a whale.   Before this book I never knew that all these ships carried buoys with them in case of a cataclysm.<br />I recommend this book to everyone and I was glad I was older when I read it because I understood it more.	2003-04-08
US	50855499	RJ37JFBHYAVDG	0306801892	47933161	Now It Can Be Told: The Story Of The Manhattan Project	Books	4	13	19	N	Y	How to pay attention to detail	After reading the Making of the Atomic Bomb, I thought I would get a view point from on of the actual participants.  General Groves had an eclectic story keeping all his crazy scientists in line to meet an objective.  Then handing the construction of the facilities and checking on the progress of the Germans.<br />It was interesting to see how he handeled the new recruites as well as the intelectuals.  I enjoyed learning about how Handford was set up to be all automated, most books you only hear about Oak Ridge.  I thought their willingness to try every avenue to get to the enrichment process seemed desprate.  They were afraid that Germany was so far ahead.  They took what they knew and were constantly trying to improve on it.<br />I like learning about the spys that he had under his command to see where Germany was and not to give up and complete his task when he found out there was not any progress in Germany.<br />He was an interesting character who got the job done.	2003-03-07
US	50855499	R15ZH0F140LN9A	0066214122	245555180	Prey	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Fun to read	I got this book for Christmas and I thought I would be polite and read it.  It wasn't like the usual books I read although it was packed full of technical information.  The book was an easy read that brought you ever deeper into the story.  <br />I happen to be a 40 year old programmer which is who the book is about only I am single.  The lead character isn't really a tech head because he came over from genetics and got into writting the agent technology.  It was pretty interesting how they described how they developed the nano technology.  It was pretty clever and I think that is the way that it will have to develop.<br />I thought the characters were well thought out.  I have met many character just like that at work on various projects.<br />I don't know if it was forshadowing or what when the author named a charater Bobby Limbeck.  It stuck in my head that name for a day or two until I remebered where I had heard it from.  That was the character that Raymond Shaw shot in the dream sequence of the Manchurian Canidate.  He was the guy everyone liked and they called him the mascot.  I guess that was suppose to explain why Bobby was always acting like a chicken. <br />I would like to see this one as a film because of thinking how they would create the swam and the action that happens in the magnet room. <br />I would recommend this to anyone with a technical background that enjoys a good mystery.	2003-02-28
US	50855499	R2XSD2EIIONDBC	0465049052	475180146	The Nazi Doctors: Medical Killing and the Psychology of Genocide	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Not for the faint of Heart	I heard many stories about the Nazi Doctors in the war but I had always wondered why they were the way they were and how could they live with themselves.  Well this book gave a pretty good explanation on how these Doctors were.  I found each of the Doctors facinating and peculiar in their own manner.<br />I was surprised that the Doctors did all the selecting and treated the people as cattle. They thought they were being the least cruel in this manner because the people suffered less.  I also learned that typhus was one of the biggest diseases at the time.  It was interesting to find out that only 15% of the people even had a chance to survive and the rest went straight to the gas chambers.  Some of the Doctors were vicious while others were able to get away with not being cruel and inhuman.<br />I have to admit I thought Mengele was quite a character in the way that he treated people.  He thought he was so superior and the story of the eyes that people had that were different colors that he set out to other colleges in Germany, well that was pretty twisted.<br />Also the part about him asking the kids if they wanted a ride in his car and he would drive them to the gas chambers was pretty psycho.<br />Overall this was a well written book but it was also very graphic so you should take care when you decide to read this one.	2003-02-28
US	50855499	R3KPPIGYLFBSP3	0805065881	345372324	Brotherhood of the Bomb: The Tangled Lives and Loyalties of Robert Oppenheimer, Ernest Lawrence and Edward Teller	Books	2	6	17	N	N	Interesting Story of Lawerence	...The part that I found interesting that I didn't get in the other books was the Story of E.O.Lawerence.  In most of the other books I have read on the subject you just hear about Lawerence as the great man and hear about his Calutrons at Oak Ridge.  This book told more of his story and the type of person he was.<br />Although that was interesting to me over all I found this book lacking in a lot of areas.  One was the fact that he didn't talk more about the tests at Livermore and Los Alamos.  It seemed to be several stories that where not tied together well because it would jump from espionage to bomb building to jealousy between the three.<br />I believe the book talked about the problems but not really the reasons.  If Lawrence and Oppenheimer were such good friends at first why did Lawrence band his brother Frank from Berkley because he told a lie it just didn't seem to make sense and I thought there should have been more of an explanation.<br />The book played Teller off in a more kinder light than I have seen in other books.  It also seem to show that Oppenheimer was not an agent but someone who thought that nuclear energy had to be controlled and band because he thought the general public couldn't handle it.  This showed especially when it talks about him crumpling the model of Rickover's sub.<br />Another thing with this book is that you should keep a dictionary with you while reading this book unless you know the meaning of words like antithetical, proselytize and anathema. I don't mind this because I like to increase my vocabulary I just thought you should know.<br />The book, to use one of the author's favorite words is an imbroglio, a confused mass.<br />I got out of it what I wanted that some of the other books on the subject did not have.  If you want to know about Lawerence this one tells more than other books.  It was interesting to find out that all the people who died from cancer from the Rad lab because they didn't know about raditation early on.n early on.	2003-02-19
US	50855499	RFZ2P343A81EU	0385418957	748344899	Seven Pillars of Wisdom: A Triumph (The Authorized Doubleday/Doran Edition)	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	A great adventure	Since I was a big fan of the film, I felt I had to read this book.  I found it to be a great adventure and the book was realist because it told all the nasty parts about the desert that you don't see in the movie. Like the part when the Bedouin would get lost out in the dessert, they would eat the camels to stay alive.  The other thing was that everybody when they started out on a campaign would get dysentery until you got used to the water and food.  It gave you an insight to the internal fortitude of all the characters.  <br />I wondered why the characters dressed as they did in the movie like Prince Faisal and Audi Abu Tye.  When you see the prints in the book they look just like these characters as does Lawrence.<br />To me the book read like a Robert Louis Stevenson adventure except the story is true.  I would recommend this as one of the books to read in a history class of the Middle East in WWI instead of the bland history I was taught.  This shows what the people were really about.	2003-02-12
US	50855499	RQNIZGQMBQ00T	1570426899	973184242	The Redhunter: A Novel Based on the Life and Times of Senator Joe McCarthy	Books	3	0	5	N	N	A view you don't hear much.	Until I read some of the reviews, I thought that Harry was a real person.  It seemed to tell a reasonable tale that you never hear because everyone seemed to think McCarthy was a nut.  Well from what history really tells us is that a lot of it was true.  Like the atomic secrets from reading \\"The Making of the atomic Bomb\\" by Richard Road to finding out how they were copying all our industrial processes from spys in civil production plants.  I got that from \\"Dark Sun\\" from the same author.  <br />I found the story to be interest like the problem with Harry and his girl.  Also I didn't know the whole thing fell apart because of that David Schine thing.  What a load of crap that was.<br />What I didn't like about the books were all the obscure references. I'm only not 60 so I didn't recognize everything that was going on.  I felt like I had to do research while I was reading the book.  The author could have helped by adding a notes section in the back to explain the references like I have seen in books like Crime and Punishment or The Jungle that explained some of the references of the time.  <BR>I don't know why there was such a big deal about McCarthy after this.  You may enjoy it if you don't know the history.	2003-02-05
US	50855499	R1QD9O1Z1TOGKR	0393038912	733405472	Guns, Germs and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies	Books	4	4	8	N	N	A different outlook on the World	I thought that this book really put a spin on the way that I viewed the world.  I was willing to accept the ideal of evolution but it never made so much sense to me until I read this book.  The ideas behind how societies developed really surprised me.  I did not expect it to be based so much on food production and animal domestication.  The thing that surprised me most about this book was that before the Europeans arrived there were no horses in America.  Finding out how people progress because of East West alignment as opposed to North South alignment made perfect sense to me.  I never knew how many people were killed off with the germs from other societies.  I was surprised by how many people were in the Americas and were killed off in order for the most immune race to survive.<br />I got a little dull near the end when he was talking about the New Guenea stuff but besides that it was an interesting read.	2003-02-05
US	50855499	R39LT85883ECO4	0761119795	971144526	Barbecue! Bible Sauces, Rubs, and Marinades, Bastes, Butters, and Glazes	Books	5	43	46	N	Y	Try out the BBQ sauces	I previously purchased the BBQ Bible.  This is a great companion book to that.  I never made my own BBQ sauce before but now I make it as much as I can.  Everyone goes crazy over the sauces in this book.  It was a pretty funny scene when I was trying to make two of the sauces at the same time.  One was the Jack Daniel's one that hot and the other was the smokey one.  Well don't try making two at once because I getting shot from two sides with bubbling sauce and you have to stir it for the whole 20 minutes.  I have made some of the butters and some of the rubs.  The best rub I have used was the one for the BBQ ribs that is part of a feature page in the book.  I can't say enough about this book. You will enjoy it.	2003-02-05
US	50855499	R23VKH2RKWHSTM	0684813785	681707236	The Making of the Atomic Bomb	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	History you never learned in School	This has to be about the best book I read in the last 5 years.  It gives you a complete history of physics from the beginning of the 20th century until WWII.  Then it goes into the second half with the building of the bomb and why it was such a big project.  It was interesting to find out how competative these guys were with each other.  The stories of Curtis LeMay were interesting and the comparison of the bomb destruction to conventional bombing.  The pictures are interesting in the center of the book.  This book more than any other got me interested in atomic power.  I would recommend this book to anyone interested in the history of the 20th century.	2003-02-04
US	50855499	R1X42RYMVTYTKO	0684824140	408700157	Dark Sun: The Making of the Hydrogen Bomb	Books	5	9	25	N	Y	Different than expected	At first I thought this book was going to be similar to the first Richard Rhodes book I read \\"The Making of the Atomic Bomb\\".  It did more than tell a history story, the book was a spy story of how the Soviets got the bomb.  I never would have realized that Klaus Fuches basically gave them everything. Also that the Rosenburgs were entirely guilty they just wouldn't admit it. Everyone else who did got a jail sentence, they must of had a lousy attorney or something.  I always wondered what happen to Oppenheimer and that he was closed out because of a jealous fellow scientist, Edwin Teller.  Teller was a real character in this book.  He was a clever guy who was too capricious to run a project, so he got Oppie.  It was interesting to know that were we also ahead of the Soviets in the nuclear technology.  I guess the cold war was just a big scare tactic.  The final thing that was interesting about this book was the way that it traced the Soviet technology and their program.  I thought it was funny that even though they had all the information from Fuchs the head of the Soviet program still made his scientists figure it out for themselves and then tell them if they were right or wrong.  What a management style! I've dealt with people who waste my time like that.	2003-02-04
US	50855499	R1M6J2JJ8ZINIF	0374299919	901466853	Adventures in the Atomic Age: From Watts to Washington	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	From someone in the middle of it.	This was a very interesting book.  You got to learn about the guy who was first able to separate plutonium not just a small bit at a time but on an industrial scale at Hanford.  The story got me interested in Lawerence and the cyclotron and how some of the newer elements were used like the one they use in smoke detectors.  He was an interesting character who tried to work within the system. By the end of the story you can see his democratic leanings because none of the Republican seem to know what they were doing but aside from that it is an interesting story which made me want to know more about nuclear power.  I never knew about all the peaceful uses they tried that were explained in this book.  This book made me want to know more of what actually happened which is why I read the new Rickover book by Frances Ducan.  In his book he mentions Seaborg several times.   The book has it's funny parts like when he was chancellor of Berkley how the male students council came to him and ask him to turn one of the dorms into a brothel so the guys could stay on campus and still relief some stress. Seaborg wore a lot of hats and his story coinsides with the times that he lived.  This is shown by how he felt about working on the bomb during World War II.  At the time Germany had taken most of Europe and Japan was all over China and the Pacific and if he didn't do something to stop them, they would rule the world.  It made it seem less of a moral choice than one of survival.	2003-01-28
US	50855499	R30K1MF8EJZKOT	0670852074	231017805	Nuclear Renewal: Common Sense About Energy	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	Not enough specific solutions	I have read Richard Rhodes other books \\"The Making of the Atomic Bomb and Dark Sun; both of them are excellent books and should be read by anyone who wants to understand the history of the 20th century.  This book was good but I would have like to have known more of the new types of reactors they are making that are inherently safe.  He did not even mention TRIGA which is used all over the world.  Why can't that be made on a power plant scale. <br />I thought it was good in the way that it described breeding and why it is necessary so that we don't have to bury wastes for thousands of years.  Breeding should be a requirement of the NRC to reduce waste.  I would have like to have heard about other fuels that could be used besides uranium.  <br />The book is good in the fact that it teaches you that nuclear power is safe but is also technologically advanced.  I would like to see what advances have been made in the last 10 years since this book was written.  I think it would be good for the country for the kids in school to see these plants and how they dispose of waste and compare it to other types of fuel processing so that people could know the truth.<br />I wish it was more specific on how much nuclear fuel we have available and how long it will last like they do with the coal and oil reserves we have.  I was glad that the book mention Rickover not many people know what he did for this industry as well as for the Navy.  I would recommend reading the latest book on him by Frances Duncan.	2003-01-21
US	50855499	R1BL8P8777P44G	1557501777	218399341	Rickover: The Struggle for Excellence	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Why is this guy not on the biography channel?	I was quite surprised after reading this book.  It is an excellent history of Rickover and US Navy Nuclear propulsion.  I had always wondered why nuclear power was always so safe for the Navy but the public utilities had so much trouble with it. This is an interesting history of moving up the ranks in the Navy and how you can advance.  I was surprised at all the people who seemed to hate Rickover because he wanted to have his way and never to go below his specifications.  This is why Rickover was never on the biography channel was because he was contriversial.  The story really makes you want to know more and more about Nuclear submarines especially the times at Oak Ridge and when they were building the Nautilus.  It's hard to think of a time when all the subs before that ran on the surface most of the time.  I was glad that Rickover just took over and got the job done.  The only part I did not like was that they were not specific enough about the design of the subs.  I do not mean engineering drawings or national secrets but at least some general layouts of the submarines and the propulsion system in a layman's terms to have a better understanding of this.  Richard Rhodes did a good job of this in his book \\"The Making of the Atomic Bomb\\" explaining the first nuclear reactor that went critical in Chicago.  I would like to also know more about that light water breeder reactor that ran on thorium instead of uranium at Shippingport.  Why haven't we made more of those instead of depending on fossil fuels?  Rickover was in on the most exciting technology of the 20th century, how exciting must that have been.	2003-01-16
US	50855499	R2KMK9XBC2D0U0	1563058669	196327103	The Barbecue! Bible: Over 500 Recipes	Books	5	48	49	N	N	Impress your friends	I live near the ballpark and before games people come over for BBQs. I got this book as a present and I can't give it enough accolades.  Everything that I have tried in it has gotten me rave reviews.  The first recipe  scared me because the maranade looked like this green scary stuff, but  after cooking the Jamaican Jerk Pork it was gone in ten minutes and they  were asking for more.  This book has more than just great dishes like the  Steak from Hell and the Bulgarian Burgers (which are excellent and suguest  you try), but it has a plethora of tremendous sauces and dips from the miso  sauce for the eggplants to the Oxsana guacamole.  I never really cooked  vegetables on the grill before this but now I do all sorts of things.  The  recipes are easy to follow too because I'm a single guy and have no clue on  cooking.  This is definitely a necessity for anyone who BBQs.	2000-04-07
