US	50864530	R1XLKWUH80SQAL	0887405177	795228648	German Fighter Ace Hans-Joachim Marseille: The Life Story of the Star of Africa (Schiffer Military History)	Books	5	36	37	N	Y	An Extraordinary Man	This is a great book that shows the extraordinary abilities of German pilot Marseille as a flier and marksman as well as his general persona. The book almost reads as a novel in places, with dialogue among the main real-life characters. What comes across is Marseille's self determination in perfecting his art as a fighter pilot and always pushed himself to his physical and mental limits. Marseille was always seen pushing his aircraft to its maximum performance and always seemed to fly harder and faster than his peers in combat. But it is not just Marseille's flying ability that made him truly one of the greatest aces of all time, but also his mastery of deflection angle shooting and sparing use of ammunition. His exploits of shooting down six aicraft in quick succession in seven minutes have become legendary. He was also probably the only pilot to master the tactic of diving in and out of an enemy defensive lufbery circle. It is probably a fitting tribute that he remained unvanquished.<br /><br />Early in his career Marseille's eagerness, energy and indifference to authority was a source of frustration and antagonism for his superiors like Steinhoff. It was only after his transfer to North Africa did Marseille blossom under the guiding hand of Neumann and Homuth.<br /><br />With all his successes (that were exploited by the Nazi propaganda machine), Marseille was still able to remain humble and great friend and mentor amongest his comrades. He was always keen to lend a helping hand.<br /><br />This book makes excellent reading and has many photographs throughout. The only thing perhaps missing would be colour art profiles of the machines flown by Marseille.	2005-07-10
US	50864530	R2UEPOS3EF6DB0	0921991703	363103374	Operation "Citadel", A Text and Photo Album, Volume 1: The South (Vol 1)	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	Exploding the Myth	Although largely a photo album, this book also explodes the myth surrounding the Battle of Kursk. The 1st 70 odd pages provides the main narrative to the book that looks at the overall situation on the Eastern front, the German and Soviet plans, the build up of equipment and order of battle (including tank inventory tables). Also included is a day by day blow analysis of the battle in the southern sector along with first hand accounts from tank commanders, drivers, grenadiers that vividly relive the battle. The book shows that history has perhaps taken Soviet reports at face value, but German losses were not as great as were claimed and in fact if the German attack may have succeeded if launched earlier or at least until Soviet reserves had been dealt a blow. Strangely the culminating clash of armour at Prochorowka has gone down in history as a great Soviet victory, although the Russian attack was effectively halted with the Russians losing 180 tanks with few German losses in comparison. However, further losses were incurred by the Germans when the operation was called off by Hitler, and equipment that was undergoing repair had to be abandoned once the Russians launched their counter offensive. The authors also try to stress the battle was not just a tank battle but included all arms including infantry, artillery and anti tank weaponary and the Luftwaffe and Red airforce. <br /> <br />The photo section is huge (covering over 350 pages) and great pains have been made to correctly label the photgraphs. Also included is a colour profile section of the vehicles used at Kursk and 3 operational maps. <br /> <br />All in all this is a fine book that questions recorded history that would please the keen historian, while the photo and profile section would keep the keen modeller equally happy. Recommended	2005-06-04
US	50864530	R3JGZFYJNIAAEI	1585748676	374917055	Historical Atlas of the Napoleonic Era	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Beautiful Summary of the Napoleonic Period	This book provides an excellent summary of the Napoleonic period. Although not a true atlas in its own right (as there are not enough maps to justify this), the maps that are provided show the positions and movements of French and opposing forces in some key battles and campaigns. However, the book is more than just an atlas, as it brilliantly summarizes the events (both political and military) and incorporates beautiful artwork from the period. The book covers events from the French Revolution, Napoleons first campaign in Italy, the Egyptian, Austerlitz, Jena-Auerstadt, Wagram, Russian, National Liberation and Waterloo campaigns and exile. Also included is the War of 1812 between Great Britain and the United States, perhaps suggesting the Napoleonic wars were indeed the real 1st World War. <br /> <br />This is truely a beautiful book and well written, but some people may criticise it for its lack of in-depth detail. However, one feels that the book was never designed to go into minute detail, otherwise the work would be spread over many large volumes. It is a magnificent summary as an atlas, pictorial and narrative of the Napoleonic Era. Recommended reading and visual treat.	2005-04-30
US	50864530	R3OQ2Q9BJHLVMC	1902304985	156561731	Stapme: The Biography of Squadron Leader Basil Gerald Stapleton DFC, Dutch Flying Cross	Books	4	6	7	N	N	The Immortal Image Of The Battle Of Britain Fighter Pilot	This book is the life story of Squadron Leader Basil Gerald Stapleton or 'Stapme' as better known by his peers. Stapme fits the typical 'Boys Own' image of the RAF fighter pilot ie with handle bar moustache, courage and determination. (although Stapme would be the first to admitt he was only doing his duty. <br /> <br />The first part of the book covers Stapmes experiences early in the war and during the Battle of Britain with Spitfire 603 squadron. In fact the book reads like the war diary of 603 squadron, showing the pace and ferocity at which the battle was fought. Strangely, Stapme does not appear to be affected by the fear and exhaustion as experienced by many of the other pilots. It was during the Battle of Britain that Stapme shot down Franz von Werra (the one German pilot who escaped captivity to return to Germany). <br /> <br />After the Battle of Britain Stapme volunteered for Merchant Ship Fighter Unit protecting convoys but saw little or no action. In 1942 he was posted to 257 Squadron undergoing flying training exercises to increase pilots skills and included air tests of aircraft and systems, night flying, camera gun practice and dogfighting. <br /> <br />1944 saw Stapme flying Typhoons for 247 Squadron as their commanding officer. Once again the book reads like the war diary of 247 squadron, showing the dangers yet important role played by the ground attack aircraft and pilots. The book shows there was good communication and cooperation between the ground forces and ground attack Tactical Airforce, that was instrumental in the ulimate defeat of Germany. It was in one of these nerve-racking ground attacks that Stapme's Typhoon received damage from his own exploding ordnance and was forced to land and was taken prisoner. The book also briefly covers his time in captivity and his post war careers with BOAC, Dunlop, and tour guide in Botswana. <br /> <br />All in all this book is a good read, showing the type and character of man that fought throughout World War II with the RAF. Stapme is one of those men who has become the immortal image of the Battle of Britain fighter pilot.	2005-04-02
US	50864530	RV54VHP59YZPJ	0972106049	71483002	Graf & Grislawski A Pair of Aces	Books	5	26	27	N	N	1st Class Account of Two Luftwaffe Aces	This excellent book follows the lives and careers of two German Luftwaffe aces Graf and Grislawski and is written by the same authors of 'Black Cross Red Star'. The two men were like chalk and cheese, but they complimented each other well and became good friends. Graf, the quiet conscientious type that belied his determination while Grislawski was brash, hot-headed and stood for no nonsense. Grislawski came from a working class background and hardship and his refusal to join the Hitlerjugend vitually railroaded his chances of becoming a pilot from the outset, but was able to join the navy as naval flier to receive flight training. <br /> <br />The book is extremely well written and thought out and we see two inexperienced flyers slowly develop in confidence and develop into hardened vetrans and aces of immense skill. The book seems to interchange from a biographical mode to one that describes events and experiences first hand, providing excellent and enthralling accounts of some aerial combat. The book talks of German fighter pilots (including Graf) driven onward to fly as many missions as possible despite exhaustion and fatigue, to achieve the Knights Cross decoration. (Neck-Itches as referred to in the book). Graf was effectively grounded by the Nazi hierachy after becoming the first man to reach two hundred victories and this is when his obsession for the love of soccer became more apparant. Grislawski's fighter career continued and became the mentor to Erich Hartmann and Hartmann likewise Grislawski's protege. Despite all Grislawski's experience on the Russian front it was ironically his transfer to the Western front for him to realise the meaning of total war, for this is where he saw German pilots machine gunned in their parachutes by American fighter pilots. The unrelentless Allied aerial assualt became a huge mounting cost for the Luftwaffe. The book also covers the captivity of Graf and Grislawski and the authors find no evidence of Graf's alleged cooperation with the Soviets after examining his POW file. <br /> <br />Overall, this is a first class book, easy to read, (exciting to read at times), with many photographs (many probably from Grislawski's private collection). It also includes a section of colour profiles of the machines Graf and Grislawski flew and a full tally of their confirmed kills. I highly recommend this book.	2005-02-19
US	50864530	R1TQIOARMDA2ZN	1903223059	584629157	Jagdwaffe: Battle of Britain: Phase One: July-August 1940 (Luftwaffe Colours: Volume Two, Section 1)	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Start of the Battle of Britain	Although the Jagdwaffe series is a detailed examination of Luftwaffe fighter camouflage and markings and pictorial the series also covers the history of the Jagdwaffe. This particular book looks at the German preparation and plan of campaign for the Battle of Britain and covers the opening phase of the battle from 1 July to 12 August 1940. What I particularly like is the separate boxed text of interviews of Luftwaffe fighter pilots giving a brief history of themselves and usually also describing an exciting fighter engagement. Like the previous books in the series this book includes many photographs and colour profiles of Messerschmitt 109s that would prove invaluable to the keen modeling enthusiast. This book explains how and why Messerschmitt 109 E camouflage and markings changed in this period to tone down the colours against the channel and english countryside. Also included in this book is a six page biography on Werner Molders. This is an excellent book and series and is highly recommended to those who have an interest in the Luftwaffe and specifically Volume Two to those who have an interest in the Battle of Britain.	2005-02-16
US	50864530	R1DQ36RFTSRQ7W	1872836003	890835050	Spitfire on my Tail	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Luftwaffe in Focus	This is an excellent account from a German fighter pilot (Ulrich Steinhilper) who was shot down and taken prisoner in the Battle of Britain. The book not only shows what it was like to train, serve and fight in the Luftwaffe, but also gives an insight into Nazi Germany. Steinhilper takes us back to his childhood and family where his parents were labelled social climbers and were subsequently discriminated againsnt by jealous members of the community. Steinhilper then takes us through his acceptance and training in the luftwaffe, including an encounter with SS bullies and training for the Nurnberg rally where the new fledgling Luftwaffe was keen to out do the army. The book also shows how ill prepared the Luftwaffe was in the Czechoslvakia crisis, but how Hitlers bluff worked. <br /> <br />The book gives a subjective insight into some big names within the Luftwaffe like Galland and Wick. Steinhilper had a strained relationship with Galland where Galland and his Spanish Civil War vetrans (referred to as 'Spainards'in the book) were set in their ways and were againsnt radio communication in fighters. Steinhilper could see the benefit of radio communication in fighters and tried to develop its use and acceptance. Tragically for the Luftwaffe, its potential was not fully developed and fighters were not able to directly communicate with bombers or Air Sea Rescue. This was yet another reason for the result of the Battle of Britain.  <br /> <br />Steinhilper talks about his experiences during the Battle of Britain, his missions, victories and also incorporates copies of his letters sent home. What becomes apparent is how the Luftwaffe slowly became demoralised and tired because of the dwindling numbers within their ranks, fatique and channel disease. As the book states 'there is no doubt in Ulrich's mind that the RAF broke the back and spirit of the Luftwaffe in the Battle of Britain'. This is an essential read for anyone with an interest in the Luftwaffe or Battle of Britain.	2004-10-21
US	50864530	R3E6BJQAQID56C	1853675415	238890845	Charge!: Great Cavalry Charges of the Napoleonic Wars	Books	4	8	13	N	Y	An Enjoyable Read	This book is an enjoyable read where the author takes the reader through various Napoleonic battles and examines the use of cavalry at each. The introduction and 1st chapter introduces the reader to the various types of cavalry, their uses and tactics and points out that the cavalry losses in the disastrous Russian campaign hit the French hard because it takes at least 5 years before a foal is ready for military training. The resulting shortage of horses impacted on Napoleon's subsequent campaigns as he was unable to effectively conduct reconnaissance and keep contact with the enemy and his own forces.    The author gives diverse coverage of battles from Italy to the Peninsular, to Prussia and Russia and includes some famous battles like Marengo, Austerlitz, Borodino, Waterloo and some lessor known ones like Fere-Champenoise. For each battle and encounter the author first outlines the strategic situation before examining the tactical use of cavalry. As Digby Smith points out, this is to give the reader an overall understanding of the context of each situation.    The author has carefully choosen battles to show the different situations faced by cavalry and to show how effective or ineffective it could be depending on how it was utlilized. Therefore the battles and encounters examined show: cavalry decimating infantry in line, cavalry been squandered in attempting to break solid infantry in square, cavalry successfully breaking tired infantry in square, cavalry trying to hold positions without support and cavalry vs cavalry clashes. The author has drawn on various sources of reference and has also included some 1st hand accounts from soldiers/cavalrymen from the period that brings the book to life.    Some people may find that the 20 odd pages per battle is not enough to give any real indepth analysis. I however found each chapter of battle to give a good sharp account that was thoroughly enjoyable and enticed the reader to read on to the next battle. The book includes a beautiful book jacket.	2004-09-04
US	50864530	RXN86OW6H3TTW	0947554815	747305862	The Luftwaffe Fighters' Battle of Britain	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Personal Accounts From The Battle of Britain	This book pulls together personal accounts of luftwaffe fighter and zerstoerer pilots from the Battle of Britain. While the books attempts to focus on the luftwaffe it also contains many RAF accounts and pits both sides of the story together of individual fighter engagements from the battle. The result is a personal, and harrowing account of the battle showing the intensity and sacrifice at which it was fought. The author also summarises within these personal accounts the overall picture of the day(s) fighting that helps put things back into a strategic perspective. The end result is an enthralling account of the Battle of Britain supplemented with many photographs that is hard to put down. I would recommend this book to anyone with an interest in the Battle of Britain and would like to note that there is a further book by the same author along the some theme 'The Luftwaffe Bombers' Battle of Britain'.	2004-04-24
US	50864530	R3BCNFLE9YF373	0921991363	977004312	Armor Battles of the Waffen SS	Books	5	2	2	N	N	History From First Hand Accounts	This is an excellent book that combines the dramatic first hand experiences of SS Panzer crews with an abundance of photos from the period 1943-1945. The book covers both the Russian and Western Fronts and includes such battles as Charkow, Kursk, Caen , Normandy, Falaise, Ardenne, Berlin. I found the first hand accounts quite intense and descriptive that made it easy to visualise the conditions and apprehension of battle. What comes across is the fighting quality and ability of the panzer crews who are still able to inflict heavy losses on Allied and Russian forces despite numerical inferiority and lack of air superiority. There are many photos throughout, but the book is much more than a photographic portrayal, it is a valuable historic record of German first hand accounts of battle and therefore is a valuable historic record in itself.	2003-12-21
US	50864530	R2DO23KHRPJKTY	0971385211	355857044	Doctor at Stalingrad	Books	5	40	42	N	N	A Ghastly Reality	This book is a great read and an account that portrays what it was like to fall into Russian captivity after the German surrender at Stalingrad. Be warned, this book is not for the faint hearted as the author descibes the appalling and ghastly conditions experienced as he remained in Stalingrad with the worst cases of the sick and wounded. The author creates a picture of the 'living dead' as the remnants of the Sixth Army waste away with starvation and diease as he and his fellow doctors work unrelentlessly to keep them alive. This is no easy task considering the doctors are suffering under the same conditions as that of the other German prisoners, conditions of a cruel Russian winter, no adequate warm clothing and shelter and near to nothing in way of food and medical supplies. Incredibly the author bears no grudges againsnt the Russians and at times shows them with a compassion and in a more favourable light than some of the German prisoners.<br />Although this a book of much suffering, death and dispair, it is also a book of survival and shows the grim results of war and how man can endure such terrible conditions. Conditions of living in darkness in the Timoshenko bunker with condensation dripping off the walls, thousands of lice and rampant diseases of typhus, dysentery, scurvy to name a few and of course starvation. These conditions destroyed the soul and will to live of many. Those that survived had the ultimate courage and faith in mankind but would be tormented mentally or physically for the rest of their lives for what they experienced.<br />A special thankyou should go to the publishers Aberdeen Books for reprinting this rare and tragic account of life after the battle of Stalingrad. This is an essential read.	2003-04-26
US	50864530	RFBCPZH2MYRIX	0679414584	485832146	Napoleon: An Intimate Account of the Years of Supremacy 1800-1814	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A Pure Delight	Here is a book that I have been looking for for some time, a book that incorporates the magnificent artwork of the Napoleonic period along with a detailed profile of Napoleon. The result is magic and a pure delight to the eye. Proctor Jones has done a splendid job at merging the two memoirs of Menval (Napoleon's secretary) and Constant (Napoleon's valet) to provide a detailed and intimate account account of Napoleon. This is not a book that details Napoleon's battles or strategic genius but is a book that provides a wonderful insight into his character and personality instead. What comes across is that Napoleon was indeed human with many strengths and weaknesses and is not the ogre or monster as often portrayed by British propaganda. One can see the the unboundless energy, emotion, magnetism and even quirky habits of the man as seen through Menval and Constant. The artwork is plentiful and compliments the events as described in the narrative. This is a superb book, printed on high quality paper and an essential addition to any buff of the Napoleonic period. You will not be disappointed, only delighted.	2003-04-21
US	50864530	R2L9JR6LUECQSI	0952686783	619815032	Jagdwaffe Volume 1 - Part 4: Attack in the West May 1940 (Luftwaffe Colours)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Detailed look at Jagdwaffe colours and markings.	I have recently acquired the Luftwaffe Colours Collectors Compendium Volume 1 that incorporates:<BR>Birth of the Luftwaffe Fighter Force<BR>Spanish Civil War<BR>Blitzkrieg and Sitzkrieg<BR>Attack in the West.<br />This series is a detailed study of the colours, camouflage and markings of the Luftwaffe's fighter force that many serious modellers will find extremely useful. Although the narrative is somewhat brief, the series follows the birth, development, tactics and wartime committment of the Jagdwaffe. The amount of research that must have been conducted and accumulated is impressive and is reflected in the many photographs and colour profiles of the machines used or experimented by the the Jagdwaffe. Included are some first-hand accounts by various pilots who flew the famous fighter aircraft of the Luftwaffe. This along with the many illustrations and photographs brings to life the Luftwaffe's fighter arm. This is a wonderful pictorial history and series of the Jagdwaffe.	2003-04-21
US	50864530	R8D4TF74TVPMY	0224018264	666953670	Battle of Britain.	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Good overview &amp; pictorial	This book provides an excellent overview of the the Battle of Britain. One gets the impression that this book was intended to be the pictorial compliment to the author's more in depth account of the battle 'Fighter'. Included are many photographs, drawings, charts and maps which help explain the battle on a day by day basis. The book also looks at air power and technology from 1918-1939, the rise of the Luftwaffe, aircraft designs and radar and some of the personalities involved with the battle. Included are many personal accounts from the combatants themselves that along with the pictorial content bring the battle to life. Some brief analysis is provided on where the RAF got it right and where the Luftwaffe got it wrong. Overall a delightful book which is an easy read and an excellent starting point of reference.	2003-03-30
US	50864530	R32ZY12QNTW8T7	0971553300	26716607	Gunther Rall: A Memoir, Luftwaffe Ace & NATO General	Books	3	28	30	N	N	Author Fails To Identify The Target Audience	After reading this book the reader is left with th question &quot;is that it'? In places the book reads like a basic history lesson about World War 2 and this can only be attributed to the fact that the author has failed to identify the target audience. Most people picking this book to read already know the basic events of World War 2 but are wanting to know specfic details of Rall's fighter pilot exploits, his opinion on the performance on the Messerschmitt 109 and it's adversaries, his friendships, hardships, triumphs and tragedys etc. Instead the reader is left both frustrated and disappointed as the author only skims the surface of such details. Maybe it is because Gunther Rall has left it so late to have an authorised biography done that such details are now a distant memory. However, I prefer to think it is the authors lack of experience or interest with the topic at hand. The book does have some good points: it covers Rall's post war career and has many photos throughout. This is not enough though as a better job could and should have been acheived with the material at hand.	2003-01-27
US	50864530	ROYESJDP92B4Y	0140284583	436220225	Stalingrad: The Fateful Siege: 1942-1943	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Excellent account of Stalingrad	This book not only covers the overall situation on the Russian front from a strategic view but also gets down to the level of what it must have been like for the average soldier.<br />Beevor writes of the main players of the battle and also uses first hand accounts and letters of soldiers (both Russian and German) in way which almost makes them like characters in a novel. The overall effect is like stepping back in time and reliving the horrors of this gruesome battle.<br />One thing to come from the book is an appreciation of the human ability to endure such sufferring and the tenacity of the human spirit.<br />The book is well researched (using Russian and German sources) and and gives a reality check on what the Russian, German and Romanian forces were capable or incapable of at the time and under the prevailing conditions. In a way some myths may have been debunked especially the relief attempt by Mainstein as the Sixth Army was in no condition to attempt a breakout as it both lacked the physical strength (through starvation) and resources.<br />This is essential and compelling reading.	2002-07-28
US	50864530	R1UVJ3WF2YREKS	0811718549	429967486	The Waterloo Companion: The Complete Guide to History's Most Famous Land Battle	Books	5	26	29	N	Y	Not just another Waterloo book	This book is not just another book on the Waterloo campaign. As the author states this book is not meant as a blow by blow account of the action but rather a look at different aspects of the battle including: The campaign, Orders of Battle, Command & Control, the battlefield, the various arms of the armies, and of course the main highlights of the battle. The last section takes an impartial look at the predominate myths and controversies surrounding the battle of Waterloo and the author comes up with his own conclusions in regards to them.<br />The book is massive (432pages) and makes superb use of colourful maps and photographs of the battlefield which explain the battle situation at key times, the deployment and various formations of forces.<br />The book also provides additional curious information by the use of text boxes including some first account experiences of the battle.<br />All in all this is an absolutely superb book, well researched using various sources of information, beautifully presented and printed on high quality paper. I have found it hard to put down , as I keep poring over the maps and digesting all the wonderful information to found in this book. This is a must buy for anyone with an interest in the Waterloo campaign. Lets hope Mark Adkin will do the same with other Napoleonic battles.	2002-07-27
US	50864530	R3U271N5JEZHO8	0700609784	562488507	The Battle of Kursk (Modern War Studies)	Books	4	29	30	N	Y	Comprehensive	This book starts off with a brief look at the Eastern front situation and the opposing armies leading up the battle and the reasons it was fought.<br />The authors then lead us into the preparations taken by both sides and how the Germans continually delayed the offensive. The Russians, well aware of the German plans were able to plan and create an intricate network of defensives and they were defenses of depth that finally frustrated and prevented the Germans from gaining any momentum. The Germans were also forced to continuously probe the Russians for potential weak spots. Unfortunately for the Germans there were none. <br />The authors make a point that the German High Command placed too much faith in their new technically advanced tanks (Panthers & Tigers) and were continuously forced to divert forces to protect their flanks that were under constant counter attack. <br />The accounts of the battle are very detailed and at times it is easy to get lost in the description of movements of the vast number of units. <br />Glantz & House make good use of personal accounts, unit's history accounts and even memoirs of the leading participants such as Mainstein. Their conclusions in regards to the battle are hard to dispute after such a detailed and comprehensive research which brings together both Russian and German sources of information. Recommended reading.	2002-02-23
US	50864530	R2LGUTLRT2CJBR	1853673463	130768315	A Military History and Atlas of the Napoleonic Wars	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Excellent Launching Pad	This book provides an excellent launching pad on the major campaigns of Napoleon. The book details the key movements of key players and the battles of the major campaigns and are all appropriately referenced to accompanying maps which help clarify the narrative.<br />All the major campaigns are included from Italy, Eygpt, Austerlitz, Russia, Waterloo etc etc. Also included are brief biographical sketches of Napoleon's Marshals and his opponents.<br />The book is of unusual dimensions but this is necessary for the inclusion of the maps. My only minor gripe is that in the age of computer graphics the maps could perhaps have been updated.<br />Overall this is an excellent summary of Napoleon's campaigns which I found useful as I was unfamilar with many of them other than Waterloo and Austerlitz. The book is designed to give the reader a taste of each campaign or battle from which he or she can follow up with further more detailed accounts. A comprehensive recommended reading guide is listed at the back of the book. This is an essential guide on the Napoleonic wars.	2001-12-26
US	50864530	R2G9CZKGDZK2OE	0764103059	140373775	Understanding the Virtual Organization (Barron's Business Success Guides)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Excellent for MBA Study	I found this book to be an excellent aid for a MBA assignment I had to do in regards to the virtual workplace.<br />The book covers everything you need to know about the virtual organisation from defining what a virtual organisation is, through to preparing for the future.<br />The book explains how and why the virtual organisation has come about along with it's advantages and disadvantages and of course the all important question of managing the virtual employee.<br />The authors are very concise and there is excellent use of bullet points, checklists and summaries. This is an excellent starting point to gaining a good understanding of the virtual organisation and thoroughly recommended.	2001-06-24
US	50864530	R34LOG1BX9G6QD	1855327163	490253090	Waterloo: The Hundred Days (Battles and Histories)	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Good overview but..........	I must admit I enjoyed reading this book when I first obtained it, but upon revisiting it my opinion has somewhat waned. The reason being is that I have since read Peter Hofschroer's work which was an excellent example of painstaking research and detail. Chandler's work now seems lightweight.<br />Chandler's book is good if you are looking for an overview of the events leading up Waterloo, Napoleonic tactics and strategy and the battles of Quatre Bras and Waterloo. The book makes lavish use of maps and prints which are very clear and a delight to the eye , but unfortunately it falls short in providing a very accurate and detailed account of the battles.<br />This is certainly a good buy if all you are seeking is an overview, but if you are familiar with the Battle of Waterloo you maybe looking for something more substantial. ( This review refers to a hard cover 1981 edition )	2001-02-25
US	50864530	R18T9CC648FA90	1853673684	410175915	1815: The Waterloo CampaignThe German Victory	Books	4	5	14	N	Y	The Decisive Prussian Element	This book is the second volume of Peter Hofschroer's work on the Waterloo Campaign from the Prussian point of view. As expected it carries on where the first volume finishes. The opening chapters cover the retreat of the Prussians from Ligny, their remarkable quick recovery from this defeat and the inadequate pursuit by the French on either the Prussians or British. ( in fact the French had lost contact with the Prussians).<br /> The author then describes the difficulties facing the Prussians in their march to join forces with Wellington, the key fighting at Waterloo around La Sainte, Papelotte, Plancenoit and the massive cavalry charges at Wellington's centre. The Prussians gave enough breathing space for Wellington to reinforce his centre as well as causing Napoleon to divert considerable forces to cover his flank. In fact Napoleon is defeated by the Allies using his own style of strategy and tactics ie a massive flanking manoeuvre.   The author tries to convince the reader that the Prussians were the decisive factor at the Battle of Waterloo and indeed the entire campaign. Subsequent chapters provide further weight behind this argument and cover the fighting around Wavre, the vigorous pursuit of Napoleon's defeated army which gave the French no opportunity to rally and reform and the Fortress seiges, all of which were almost entirely a Prussian affair.<br />Overall I thought this was a very good book with strong arguments and evidence to suggest that the Waterloo Campaign was ultimately a German victory (although some previous reviewers have rejected these arguments outright). I would recommend that both volumes of Peter Hofschroer's work be read together.	2000-11-29
US	50864530	RK1BSEVYFUHRS	1853266787	973604142	Bonaparte (Crown Quarto)	Books	2	6	7	N	N	One eyed	Upon reading this book you would think the author had a personal grievance with Bonaparte himself! At every available opportunity Barnett slams Napolean who he makes out was slap dash in the battlefield and relied on the brilliance of some of his generals. Also the author tries to demonstrate that Napolean had little directly to do with the reforms found in France today. Maybe it was just in style that the book is written, but I just found it to be too one eyed to be taken too seriously.	2000-11-26
US	50864530	R3NGPG49076Q86	1567998151	930158120	Flying Aces: Aviation Art of World War II	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good variety, good value	This book offers a good sample of paintings of famous aces or famous squadrons from a variety of artists. Some aces that are included are: Johnnie Johnson, Galland, Bader, Marseille, Hartmann, Boyington, Flying Tigers etc etc. Also included are some lesser known French, Italian and even Finnish aces. There are excellent brief narratives about the history of each subject to compliment the pictures.  The styles of each artist soon become apparent and my preference is for the realism portrayed in Taylor's art work. Overall I think this book is good value for the price, especially if you have an interest in WW2 aviation.	2000-11-24
US	50864530	R17Q2UBQLEM8X7	1900624028	467326943	Waterloo: A Near Run Thing (Great Battles)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Like being there	This book recreates the Battle of Waterloo by using first hand accounts from the men that actualy fought there. The result is a powerful book with much atmosphere and feel that it is almost like being there on the battlefield. Howarth mixes the strategy of the battle with the more personal recollections to a superb blend.  This is an excellent book and a good alternative to the usual pure strategic and tactical view taken of the battle by many historians/authors. There is also excellent illustrations throughout. ( This review refers to a 1968 hardcover edition)	2000-11-20
US	50864530	RBM0EVNC798C8	0887404464	865297783	The War Diary of Hauptmann Helmut Lipfert	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Come fly with Lipfert, adrenalin and all.	This book is the war time experiences of Helmut Lipfert, one of the leading German aces on the Russian front with a total of 203 kills. Lipfert's unit fought in the Caucasus, Black Sea, Crimea, Romania and Hungary.<br />Lipfert first takes us through his initial experiences where it was not only an acheivement to come back in one piece but to actually navigate your way home amongest the vastness of flat land with lack of landmarks was perhaps the greatest acheivement of all. With this book you will see a green pilot who is barely able to land his plane, gradually build in confidence and ability and mature to the cunning and expertise of an ace. There are many aerial combats described of in this book and done in such a way that one felt as though they were actually there in the cockpit with Lipfert, adrenalin and all.<br />Upon reading this book you start to realize it is sometimes just a matter of luck if you survive a war. For example, Lipfert crashed his plane into a house where his BF109 literally disintergrated with the exception of himself and the cockpit which came to rest some distance from the house, but he still lived to tell the tale.<br />There are also some lighter moments such as when beer had to be flown in disguised as a bomb strung underneath a Messerschmitt when all the alcohol supplies had run out. Lipfert also admitts to having flown off on more than one mission a bit tipsy!<br />All in all a very enjoyable book telling you how it was in the air on the Russian front.	2000-11-18
US	50864530	R2BODQ3ESOZ7CE	1853673048	861722520	1815 The Waterloo Campaign: Wellington, His German Allies and the Battles of Ligny and Quatre Bras	Books	4	16	22	N	N	A Refreshing viewpoint	This book along with the second volume &quot; The German Victory&quot; seems to have touched a nerve ending among many readers.<br />The book covers the overall situation in Europe before Waterloo, the fragile coalition between the Allies, the fighting around Carleroi, Franses and of course the dual batlles of Ligny and Quatre Bras. Peter Hofschroer writes almost entirely from a Prussian perspective which is refreshing but at times a little frustrating (as I would have liked a bit more French input). He tries to convince the reader that the Waterloo Campaign was more of a German/Prussian victory than a British one based on the make up and numbers of the Allied forces that actually fought in the campaign. He also pulls no punches on the Duke of Wellington's performance in the opening rounds of the campaign and concludes from the evidence of his research that the Duke deceived his Prussian Allies into fighting at Ligny when he knew he could not offer any support.<br />I enjoyed reading this book which I found to be thoroughly researched and thought provoking and also made good use of maps. Peter Hofschroer has certainly come up with an interesting alternative view point which may polarize the way many people view how the Waterloo Campaign was won.	2000-10-28
US	50864530	R1URI9GEKKFNIS	0764301756	495307325	Jagdeschwader 53: A History of the Pik As Geschwader Volume 1: March 1937 - May 1942 (Schiffer Military History) (v. 1)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Simply Excellent!	This book is volume one out of three. The book covers the history of JG53 from the formation of the Luftwaffe through to operations in the Mediterranean againsn't Malta. Included are Sitzkreig, the French campaign, Battle of Britain and the invasion and advance into Russia.<br />Prien gives daily accounts of operations by JG53, including diary extracts and combat reports from some of the pilots. This along with the lavish use of photographs, recreates the reality and feel of what it must of been like fly and fight for the Luftwaffe. At the end of each chapter Prien gives a grim detailed tally of JG53's losses.( I would like to have seen the same detailed tally on its victories as well.) JG53 was probably a good choice to research and write about for although it didnt have many of the well known aces and personalities like other Jagdeschwader, it fought in practically every theatre of the war.<br />Prein also is able to give quick, accurate summaries of overall military situations which I found excellent and refreshing.<br />Overall, I thoroughly enjoyed this book and recommend to anyone with an interest in WW2 aviation and the Luftwaffe although some may find it a little expensive. Some will be pleasantly surprised at the colour photograghs at the end of the book. I look forward to obtaining the next two volumes.	2000-09-24
US	50864530	R2MGFHFWGX06MM	0715390082	114677106	The Air Combat Paintings of Robert Taylor	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	The Master's Work	Those of you who know Robert Taylor's art work will know what to expect  from this book. Those of you don't, then you will be treated to some superb  sketches and paintings which mainly focus on World War 2 aviation scences.  Taylor has an excellent eye for detail and realism and researchs his  subject(s) to ensure that his paintings are more than just realistic, they  are factual. In this book he talks about how some of his paintings were  done, along with comments from some of his subjects such as Adolf Galland,  Townsend, Johnnie Johnson etc. The book includes 24 of his paintings,  including some of my favourites &quot;Dambusters&quot;,&quot;JG-52&quot;,  &quot;Victory over Dunkirk&quot; all of which are on good quality paper.  This is a quality book which displays the master's work and the master at  work and highly recommended, although some may find the price a little  prohibitive.	2000-09-10
US	50864530	R344TPS7O40O8X	0883659247	339554706	Inside the Third Reich: Memoirs	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	An Intriguing Inside Look.	This book is simply esssential reading by a man who describes himself &quot; If Hitler had had any friends, I would certainly have been one of  his close friends&quot;. It is essential reading from the view that the  book describes what it was like to be within Hitlers intimate circle. One  gets the impression Speer was a talented, quiet man who joined the Nazi  party as he was totally engrossed with the character of Hitler.<br />I found  the chapters devoted to the time Speer was Hitler's architect a little  repetitive in places but these were still interesting as they showed what  grandiose plans Hitler had.<br />However, the book really takes off when Speer  is appointed Minister of Armaments after the mysterious death of Todt. From  this point on the book is literally hard to put down. Speer describes the  mobilisation of German industry, the initial errors in the Allied bombing  strategy, the blunders made with secret weapons ( e.g the use of the ME262  jet fighter as a bomber and the waste of the rocket technology). What is  must intriguing is the immense inside politics which went on, and all the  big names are mentioned in this book: Bormann, Goring, Gobbels, Himmler and  of course Hitler. Speer finally realised that he too had to play the dirty  game of politics in order to get anything done. Speer descibes Hitler as an  amatuer who knew no rules which lead to early victories but then the  ultimate defeat of Germany and Speer tries to show the changes that went  through Hitler as the war went on.<br />Finally, this book was an opportunity  for Speer to look at himself and come to grips with his guilt for the part  he played Inside the Third Reich.	2000-08-20
US	50864530	R2TXCVZ7QWNMJI	0891411305	273166380	Lost Victories: The War Memoirs of Hitler's Most Brilliant General	Books	5	24	25	N	Y	Manstein Magic	Upon reading this book it would appear Manstein not only had a talent with the sword but also the pen. Manstein's book is a very readable account of his war time experiences. Included in his book is the demise of the OKH (  General Staff of the Army) through its lack of decisiveness in making a  military decision.The formulation, acceptance and implementation of the  &quot;Mainstein Plan&quot; which was adopted for the offensive in the West  as other plans would NOT acheive total victory. Mainstein shares his  simplistic but interesting views on how the  Battle of Britain should have  been fought.<br />He then takes us through his brillant victories in the  Crimea which were acheived againsnt overwhelming numbers and where his  successes were largely acheived through having a free hand and no  interference from Hitler. Mainstein devotes a chapter on Hitler as Supreme  Commander and analyses Hitlers strengths and many weaknesses.<br />There is a  fascinating detailed account of the German tragedy at Stalingrad and how  the beleaguered Sixth Army had the opportunity to break out towards  Mainstein's relief forces. However the opportunity was lost due to the  Army's hesitation and Hitlers insistence Stalingrad must be held. The  sacrifice of the Sixth Army however gave time for other Army Groups to leap  frog back to safety and deal a counter blow at Kharkov.<br />One diappointing  feature of the book is the short chapter devoted to operation  &quot;Citadel&quot; ( or the battle of Kursk). This is because the  translators of the book have taken a much shorter translation than what was  orginally contributed by the author. I would be most interested in  obtaining the orginal full length translation.<br />Mainsteins views on how  operations should be fought subsequent to Kursk were constantly at odds  with Hitlers views on holding onto everything. This along with some other  top Nazi Party members insistence that Manstein was a defeatist guaranteed  his dimissal in April1944.<br />This book is a MUST READ and indispensable to  anyone with an interest in the Second World War.	2000-06-04
US	50864530	R1BH05FUDG9B8I	156515021X	793188283	Panzer Leader	Books	4	85	88	N	Y	Military Historians Dream	This book will be of great interest to any military historian. Guderian takes us through the development of the Panzer force both in its formation and tactics and its implementation in the battlefield in the Polish, French  and Russian campaigns. There are detailed accounts of his involvement in  those campaigns and at times I got a little lost in the geographic  references and the poor sketch maps did little to compensate. However,the  book is more than that. The book contains an incredible insight into the  German High command, Hitler and his cronies and their disasterous blunders  such as at Dunkirk and the gross under estimation of Soviet Russia in terms  of fighting ability and technology. What I found of special interest was of  the recollections of meetings and arguments with Hitler and Guderian's  refusal to bow to the Furher's will power. Guderian was dismissed after the  failure of the German army at the gates of Moscow in 1941 but his talents  could not even be overlooked by Hitler and after further set backs were  encountered was recalled to service in 1943.  The Allies were fortunate  that Guderian's talents were hindered by Hitler's &quot;YES&quot; men,  overwise the war could have taken a different course. I would recommend  this book to anyone interested in World War Two from a German stand point.	2000-04-06
